Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: 17- Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Unit context and structure

 Following a strong REF2014 performance in which 75% of its research was rated as ‘world-
 leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’, the Unit’s profile has developed further through strategic
 investments in staff, an enhanced focus on external engagements, and a collegial and supportive
 environment. Table 1 shows growth since REF2014 in staff volume, output quality, research
 income and PhDs awarded.

                                   Table 1. Growth since REF2014

     REF           Eligible        Peer-reviewed           Research income        PhD degrees
    period       Category A       publications in            (per capita)            awarded
                  staff FTE      CABS 4*/4 journals                                (per capita)
                                    (per capita)

        REF         138.7                182                    £6.08M                 191
        2021                            (1.32)                  (£43.8k)              (1.38)

        REF         89.4                  49                    £2.61M                  63
        2014                            (0.55)                  (£29.2k)              (0.70)



    •     The Unit covers the triple-accredited School of Business and Economics (SBE,
          122.2FTE staff) in Loughborough, and 16.5FTE staff at the new Loughborough
          University London (LUL) School.

    •     SBE comprises seven academic groups: Accounting and Finance; Economics;
          International Business, Strategy and Innovation; Information Management;
          Management Science and Operations; Marketing and Retailing; Work and Organisation.

    •     LUL staff are from the Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (created 2015) and
          the Institute for International Management (created 2017).


 SBE staff report to their Dean (Robinson) via the academic groups and LUL staff report to their
 Dean (Edwards) via the institutes. Both Deans are Unit staff. Associate Deans for Research and
 Enterprise (ADR and ADE) in each School provide strategic leadership to the research and impact
 activities of the Unit and are members of the University’s Research Committee and Enterprise
 Committee, respectively, chaired by the Pro Vice-Chancellors for Research and Enterprise. SBE
 Associate Deans, Ravishankar and Souchon, are Unit staff.

 We have created and sustained a vibrant research culture conducive to producing research of the
 highest quality and enabling outstanding research impact. In addition to academic groups and
 institutes, which are the focal organising units for research, we have supported five Research
 Centres over the REF period (total investment - £900k) as vehicles for our external collaborations
 and events. Prominent achievements of the Research Centres are described in Section 4.1.

 Across our comprehensive and diverse research portfolio, we highlight six cross-cutting research
 capabilities (Table 2), which reflect long-standing and emergent strengths, as well as
 competencies acquired in the current assessment period through staff recruitment and the
                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 establishment of LUL institutes. These capabilities span theoretical, empirical and applied
 research, and have developed organically with contributions from all areas of the Unit.

                                    Table 2. Research capabilities

          Research capabilities                      Groups / Institutes contributing:

     Business in Emerging Markets          •   Economics
                                           •   International Business, Strategy and Innovation
                                           •   Marketing and Retailing
                                           •   Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

          Corporate Governance             •   Accounting and Finance
                                           •   International Business, Strategy and Innovation
                                           •   Work and Organisation
                                           •   Institute for International Management

            Decision Analytics             •   Economics
                                           •   Information Management
                                           •   Management Science and Operations

            Digital Innovations            •   Economics
                                           •   Information Management
                                           •   International Business, Strategy and Innovation
                                           •   Marketing and Retailing
                                           •   Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

        Energy and Sustainability          •   Accounting and Finance
                                           •   Economics
                                           •   Management Science and Operations

              Future of Work               •   Information Management
                                           •   Work and Organisation
                                           •   Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
                                           •   Institute for International Management


 1.2. Research strategy (2014-2020)

 Our research vision (2014-2020) was to produce research of world-leading standard, that is
 recognised and valued by peer and non-academic communities across key disciplinary areas
 within business, and our REF2014 submission set out six strategic objectives for research and
 impact.

 (1) To increase the proportion of the Unit’s research outputs rated as internationally excellent and
 world-leading.
 We used the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) Academic Journal Guide (AJG)
 to compare our REF2021 and REF2014 submissions. We published 182 AJG 4/4* and 420 AJG
 3 papers in the REF2021 period. 4/4* outputs increased by 271% (140% per capita) and AJG 3
 outputs increased by 233% (115% per capita).

 Unit staff published 55 peer-reviewed research articles in the Financial Times list of 50 top journals
 in business and management (FT50), which represents a 129% increase (48% per capita) from
 REF2014. For instance, research related to:


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Business in Emerging Markets has appeared in Human Resource Management and Journal
     of International Business Studies.
 •   Corporate Governance has appeared in Academy of Management Review, Management
     Science and Strategic Management Journal.
 •   Decision Analytics has appeared in Operations Research and Production and Operations
     Management.
 •   Digital Innovations has appeared in Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science and MIS
     Quarterly.
 •   Energy and Sustainability has appeared in Manufacturing and Service Operations
     Management and Research Policy.
 •   Future of Work has appeared in Human Relations and Organization Studies.

 We recognise that the sub-panel will not use journal rankings in evaluating individual outputs, but
 we believe this analysis affirms our growing research strength across the range of our activity.

 (2) To increase the level of research income derived from Research Councils, EU, charities,
 industry, and alumni.
 In a competitive research funding environment, we have secured £6.08M (£43.8k per capita) in
 research income over the current assessment period, up 133% on REF2014 (up 50% per capita).
 With a strong push towards participation in international research consortia and
 interdisciplinary/cross-disciplinary research, we increased our income from EU government bodies
 by 1430% per capita. Income from Research Councils and UK charities increased by 97% and
 21% per capita, respectively.

 In increasing research income, we have combined our research capabilities with activities
 promoted under the University’s CALIBRE framework and its emphasis on interdisciplinary
 research. For instance, by forging links with staff in three schools (Design and Creative Arts,
 Science, Social Science and Humanities), we provided expertise in Decision Analytics to the EU
 H2020 TOXI-Triage project, which set new global standards for decision-making processes during
 mass casualty incidents involving chemical, biological, radioactive, or nuclear materials (Unit PI:
 Jackson). Overall, we have played a key role in 25 externally funded interdisciplinary research
 projects, working collaboratively with different Schools in the University (total income: £1.4M).
 Further examples include:
 • Barnard’s EU H2020-funded research with the School of Architecture, Building and Civil
     Engineering, which advanced gender equality in the higher education sector.
 • Jackson’s EPSRC-funded work with the School of Aeronautical, Automotive, Chemical and
     Materials Engineering, which facilitated system integration and optimisation of alternative
     energy sources.
 • Rasciute’s Health Foundation-funded work with the School of Sport, Exercise and Health
     Sciences, which contributed to a better understanding of the trade-offs between economic and
     environmental impacts of nature-based leisure trips.

 (3) To embed research students as an integral part of our research culture and create the next
 generation of business research scholars.
 Our achievement is evidenced by award of 191 PhD degrees in the REF2021 period (completions
 per capita staff up 97% from REF2014) and high scores in the Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (2019), which showed that over 95% of our students are satisfied with the skills and subject
 knowledge of supervisors and the opportunities to maintain regular contact with them.

 Success in training the next generation is evidenced by our PhD graduates currently holding
 permanent academic posts at some leading institutions: Universities of Edinburgh (Douch),
 Manchester (Han), New South Wales (Mysore Seshadrinath), Leeds (Morton and Xu), Sheffield
 (Katsiampa), Nottingham (Achtzehn, Yazdani and Zhang), Lancaster (Fayoumi), Vienna
 (Micevski), Cranfield (Ghadge), Shandong (Li), Strathclyde (Tsougkou), Aston (Despoudi, Xue)
 and IESEG School of Management (Nemkova). We have also recruited 10 of our own PhD
 students into full-time academic posts (e.g., Adetutu, Brooks, Crick, Odusanya), which is further


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 testimony to the quality of our programme, our confidence in our graduates, and the vitality of our
 research environment.

 (4) To engage more closely with non-academic users around our research activities and seek to
 ensure that our research influences policy and practice.
 We have nurtured a strong network of external relationships, featuring our key research
 capabilities, and involving Unit staff at all levels. Our nine impact case studies (ICSs) detail some
 of our deep engagements with research users and are referenced in Section 1.3. Therefore, here
 we elaborate on projects that are additional to our ICSs and their embedded collaborations with
 partners. Some may become ICSs in any future REF. The following is an illustrative list of projects
 initiated and advanced since 2014.

 Business in Emerging Markets
 Richey and Ravishankar are collaborating with African Entrepreneur Collective, the largest
 refugee entrepreneurship programme (supporting 3400 refugees) in the Global South, to train
 refugees to start and maintain a business in difficult circumstances (Funders: Society for
 Advancement of Management Studies and British Academy of Management). Richey and Brooks
 led country-wide evaluations of a UK Home Office-led project that supports refugees’
 entrepreneurial aspirations (Funder: Centre for Entrepreneurs). This research has directly
 informed ongoing revisions to the UK government’s policy frameworks for refugee support.
 Schnyder is working with Mastercard’s Enterprise Partnerships team to examine the effectiveness
 of the company’s partnership with Unilever, which aims to facilitate credit availability for Kenyan
 microentrepreneurs. In collaboration with the Department of Science and Technology, Hebei
 Province and the Administrative Committee of the Xiong’an New Area, China, Fu has developed
 a blueprint for the development of emerging market entrepreneurship ecosystems that enable
 innovative ventures (Funder: British Academy/Leverhulme Trust).

 Corporate Governance
 Building on his contributions to the Africapitalism project (Funder: Tony Elumelu Foundation),
 Chizema served as Lead Consultant (2018-2020) of the international expert committee that
 drafted the Principles of Corporate Governance for the African Union. Casey and colleagues are
 working with multi-national companies in China to study the impact of Global Framework
 Agreements on governance and corporate social responsibility activities (Funder: Hans-Böckler
 Foundation). Drawing on his research into shareholder-orientated corporate governance practices
 (Funder: ESRC), Schnyder has collaborated with Inner City Fund to inform the UK’s Department
 for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy about regulatory regimes in global economies.

 Decision Analytics
 Mandania and Liu have ongoing collaborations with BT. They have developed software that
 contributes to more efficient and environmentally friendly scheduling of service operations
 (Funder: BT). In partnership with Triumph Motorcycles, Kawalek and Holland have developed data
 analytics solutions that can improve sales forecasting, production planning and promotional spend
 strategies of organisations (Funder: Innovate UK). Li B. and colleagues have worked with BAE
 Systems, Network Rail and the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, and improved the
 situational awareness and decision-making capabilities of unmanned vehicles (Funder: EPSRC).

 Digital Innovations
 Milne is leading a major project with global firms (e.g., IBM, PricewaterhouseCoopers) to identify
 opportunities for Artificial Intelligence-based innovation in the UK insurance industry (Funder:
 ESRC). Jackson, Sykora and Hodgkinson have developed a digital social intelligence engine in
 collaboration with Ford that can outwit bot networks and safeguard brand reputation (Funder:
 Innovate UK); Cooke’s work with the International Federation of Library Associations and the UK’s
 Chartered Institute of Library and Information Services helped improve libraries’ provision of digital
 resources for their publics (Funder: AHRC). Dy led evaluations of efforts to diversify the East
 London digital start-up sector (Funder: OneTech).



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Energy and Sustainability
 Grubnic and colleagues have developed a new business model for the eco-friendly development
 of products, based on the principles of ‘circular economy’ (Funder: EPSRC). It is being validated
 in multiple organisations (e.g., Lexmark, the printer-maker and Arçelik, the Turkish multinational
 appliances manufacturer). Giulietti has led a partnership with cleantech company Moixa and the
 Nottingham City Council and demonstrated how new business models provide fair and flexible
 energy supply systems (Funder: EPSRC).

 Future of Work
 Conducting research with older workers in multiple organisations (e.g., BP, BT, University
 Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust), Arnold and colleagues have identified strategies that are
 effective in helping them craft better and longer working lives (Funder: European Commission).
 Based on their research into career development and leadership, Silvester and colleagues have
 provided written evidence to a 2019 House of Commons inquiry, outlining methods for improving
 the representation of women in senior political roles. Drawing on their research into LGBT
 experiences in the construction industry (Funder: Chartered Institute of Building), Barnard and
 colleagues are working with industry and civil society stakeholders (e.g., Equality and Human
 Rights Commission) to promote inclusive workplace practices.

 (5) To foster close collaboration between Economics, Information Management and Business, as
 well as with other Schools, to develop research areas of common interest.
 We encourage staff to pursue collaborations across areas and we believe in dismantling
 boundaries between academic disciplines. This approach remains a cherished value of the Unit’s
 research culture. At the time of our REF2014 submission, staff working in the Economics
 (previously UoA34) and Information Management (previously UoA36) areas had just been moved
 into the Business School, forming the School of Business and Economics. They are now fully
 integrated into the Unit, as are LUL colleagues who have joined us since 2014. We have recorded
 51 successful collaborations across the Unit’s academic areas in terms of peer-reviewed research
 publications or/and externally funded projects. Illustrative examples include:
 • Cooke’s (Information Management) co-authored journal publication with Wilson (International
     Business, Strategy and Innovation) on the digital work practices of senior managers.
 • Milne’s (Economics) successful ESRC bid in partnership with Herbert (Accounting and
     Finance) and Holland (Information Management) to explore the reshaping of insurance value
     chains through new technologies.
 • Scholes’ (Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, London) co-authored journal
     publication with Hughes (International Business, Strategy and Innovation) and colleagues on
     governance issues in family businesses.
 • Coombs’ (Information Management) co-authored journal publication with Barnard (Work and
     Organisation) and colleagues, which reviews the impacts of intelligent automation on
     knowledge and service work.

 (6) To be recognised internationally as a leading centre of research excellence in specific major
 areas of business and management research.
 In 2019, we progressed to the 101-150 band of the QS Global Ranking of business and
 management units (QS subject rankings), which reflects both objective metrics (e.g., citations) and
 the international community’s perception of our reputation across research areas. The Unit’s
 strategic growth through LUL has further expanded our research base and enhanced the
 international recognition of our research. The Unit has attracted an internationally competitive pool
 of talented ECRs (e.g., Karpuz, Kern, Nardella, Russo, Sukumara Panicker, Triebs) and
 established scholars (e.g., Edwards, Hodgson, Holland, Podinovski, Silvester) across multiple
 areas of research. In 2014, SBE joined a select group of schools that hold accreditations from all
 three leading business school accreditation bodies (AACSB, EQUIS and AMBA). We have since
 retained this coveted triple-accreditation status, which is held by only 101 business schools
 worldwide and recognises the excellent processes and supportive structures in place to sustain
 and strengthen all areas, including our research environment. Table 3 illustrates research
 excellence in terms of the Unit’s key research capabilities.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                    Table 3. Research capabilities: activities and achievements

     Research        Peer-reviewed      PhDs        Research        Affiliation of main research
     capability         journal        awarded      seminars         collaborators in the REF
                      publications                    and                       period
                                                   workshops
                                                     hosted

   Business in             169             30           64        • Peking University
   Emerging                                                       • Imperial College London
   Markets                                                        • Ghent University
                                                                  • Copenhagen Business
                                                                    School (CBS)

   Corporate               112             22           53        • Northeastern University
   Governance                                                     • University of Auckland
                                                                  • Imperial College London
                                                                  • Durham University

   Decision                141             24           74        • University of Southern
   Analytics                                                        California
                                                                  • London School of Economics
                                                                    and Political Science (LSE)
                                                                  • University of Edinburgh
                                                                  • Aalto University

   Digital                 204             32           75        • LSE
   Innovations                                                    • CBS
                                                                  • University of New South
                                                                    Wales
                                                                  • University of Auckland

   Energy and              183             20           57        • Tsinghua University
   Sustainability                                                 • University of Warwick
                                                                  • Northeastern University,
                                                                    China
                                                                  • Indian Institute of Technology
                                                                    Delhi

   Future of               206             20           67        • University of Queensland
   Work                                                           • University of Manchester
                                                                  • Seoul National University
                                                                  • KU Leuven


 1.3. Enabling and facilitating research impact

    Given the importance attached to developing impact, in 2014 the Unit created the Director
    of Research Impact (DRI, Arnold) role, which supports the delivery of impact and reports to
    the Associate Deans for Research and Enterprise.

 The DRI’s work includes information gathering, idea generation, encouragement and informal
 mentoring of staff, and facilitating links to the non-academic world. In 2015, led by the DRI, we set
 up Impact@SBE to raise the levels of awareness, activity, and achievement of knowledge
 translation, including but not confined to potential REF impact cases. Impact@SBE was a strategic

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recognition of the desire to increase impact activity post-REF2014, based on our assessment of
 the Unit culture that suggested the impact element of research lagged publications and funding in
 academic staff’s priorities.

    Impact@SBE staff: DRI (Arnold), Head (Ellis-Chadwick), two senior research and enterprise
    associates (Rubin, Taneva), and two part-time administrators.

 Working with colleagues in the University’s Research and Enterprise Office (REO), Impact@SBE
 staff:
 • assisted in bidding for and helping to deliver ‘near market’ research and consultancy projects,
     events, and products (such as videos).
 • helped to formulate the impact elements of research bids (and in some cases carried out the
     impact activities themselves).
 • collected information about existing research collaborators and helped to identify new ones.
 • advised staff on strategies for achieving impact.
 • advised on and assisted with the collection of impact evidence.

 Impact@SBE liaised with the University’s REO over issues like non-disclosure agreements and
 intellectual property, produced guidance for staff on impact-related matters, and identified
 opportunities for dissemination of research to user groups, including via The Conversation and the
 SBE biannual magazine Inspire, which is distributed free to alumni and other contacts.
 Impact@SBE also ran training events led by external experts (e.g., Reed, Fast Track Impact) on
 using social media for research impact, developing and editing Wikipedia pages, and the use of
 non-academic citation metrics. Other successful joint Impact@SBE and REO activities include the
 formulation and delivery of a successful £10k bid on the impact of technology at work to the
 Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, writing and now enacting impact elements of
 a successful £1.3M bid to ESRC for an Artificial Intelligence-based innovation consortium (Milne),
 and formulating a successful tender of £10k for work with Scottish libraries (Cooke). Impact@SBE
 won competitive internal HEIF funding from the University’s Enterprise Projects Group to support
 the development of a short play (subsequently publicly performed in London) on gender
 inequalities in performing arts (Sage), and to enable the development of a visual management
 business game (Bateman).

 Since 2019, the Unit has benefitted from an expansion of the University’s REO to create a larger
 and more integrated support function for enabling and facilitating impact. The activities of
 Impact@SBE have now been absorbed into this expanded operation, which includes an
 Enterprise Partnership Development Manager dedicated to our Unit who works closely with the
 DRI (Arnold). Other staff in the REO assist with the Unit’s impact-related work as required. Impact
 activities are also supported by the Unit’s marketing and events team (e.g., in organising events
 on post-Brexit trade and water industry regulation where Unit staff’s work has been prominent)
 and the University’s PR teams (e.g., in providing media training for academic staff).

 REF impact case studies (ICSs)
 Since 2014, the DRI has worked alongside all staff with potential ICSs (27 in total, not just the nine
 submitted) and liaised regularly with a member of the Unit’s Strategic Advisory Board (SAB - see
 Section 4.1) about the development of the cases. The DRI also drew up an informal panel of seven
 senior professionals in different parts of the world and economy who have periodically offered
 advice on ICSs within their areas of interest.

 Since 2017, the DRI’s work has included the formulation of agreed impact action plans and the
 allocation of 100 hours on workload per year for staff with clear REF-level cases (14 cases). In
 total four SAB members participated in one or both of two away days (in 2018 and 2019) where
 staff presented their ICSs to mixed audiences with a view to obtaining feedback and ideas for
 further development. The Unit’s overall approach to achieving impact (via the DRI, Impact@SBE
 and the REO) has contributed materially to all nine ICSs submitted. Examples include:



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   helping obtain internal HEIF money to support Choudhary’s work on freight industry
     sustainability, and the uptake of Montibeller and Franco’s risk-assessment tools and
     techniques.
 •   funding meetings of Coyne’s DRAWING group of employers seeking to promote dignity and
     fairness at work.
 •   assisting in collecting the widely distributed evidence of the personal impacts of Travers’
     Reflective Goal-Setting and the organisational impacts of Ellis-Chadwick’s Digital High Street
     Health Index.
 •   finding previously unknown users of the work of Freeman on long-term discounting, Saal and
     Nieswand on water industry pricing, and Tako and Robinson on user-centred systems design.

 1.4. Research and impact objectives for the next five years

 We have updated the Unit’s research strategy through a consultative process involving all Unit
 staff and the University leadership team (September-December 2020). Building on the foundations
 laid in the early 2000s and continuing our focus on research excellence and its impact on society,
 we have rearticulated our long-term research vision as Making a better world with research
 excellence. Three strategic commitments underpin this vision:
 • Commitment 1: Engagement
     We will develop and support meaningful collaborative relationships with businesses, social
     enterprises, policy makers and academic institutions.
 • Commitment 2: Ethos
     We will maintain an unwavering focus on the values of excellence and inclusivity that underpin
     our research culture.
 • Commitment 3: Reputation
     We will grow our international stature and esteem so that our research is seen, heard and
     used widely.

 The research and impact objectives set out here to advance our strategic commitments were
 developed after a careful and rational analysis of our research base, current trajectory, and
 aspirations. We acknowledge that these objectives assume a ‘normal’ post-COVID world. As such,
 the realisation of our research and impact objectives may be influenced by resourcing limitations
 and decisions of the University in a turbulent post-COVID environment. There are further potential
 risks to our objectives stemming from protectionist and de-globalising instincts of governments.
 However, our working position over the next five years is to stay true to our strategic commitments,
 notwithstanding any economic, organisational, and political headwinds. Therefore, our strategic
 commitments will remain the key enduring principles of our research strategy, albeit with the
 possible need to flex in relation to implementation plans and objectives, but without drifting from
 the focus on Engagement, Ethos and Reputation.

 Taking forward the research and impact objectives

 Commitment: Engagement
 Objective 1: To develop international partnerships that address a range of global research
 challenges.
 We propose to build on our international research links and create a small number of ‘innovation
 sandboxes’ that will work in collaboration with partnering organisations and academic institutions.
 We will initiate and advance these sandboxes by aligning them with our research capabilities (e.g.,
 addressing challenges of digital exclusion in local communities through a Digital Innovations-
 themed sandbox). We will work in conjunction with the University’s framework for impactful
 research, to translate research outcomes, test ideas and develop scalable solutions. The
 sandboxes will tackle significant global research challenges, using the overarching framework of
 the United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals to evaluate progress. We will leverage the
 geographical advantage offered by our London campus to expand the reach of our sandboxes.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Objective 2: To continue to improve interdisciplinary research connections in the
 University.
 As reported in Section 1.2 above, our collegial and supportive environment has already spurred
 25 significant interdisciplinary research collaborations in the REF period. We would like to grow
 this further. We see interdisciplinary links as an opportunity to grow our research income levels,
 build more bridges with the non-academic world, and work closely with external stakeholders. We
 will avoid over-structuring and over-complicating our organisation in the quest for interdisciplinary
 synergies. We will continue to draw on our current simple, flexible, and nimble structure for
 managing research. Simultaneously, we will strategically deploy our primary research capabilities
 as focused talking points and make more extensive use of specialist resources in the University’s
 Research and Enterprise Office to span boundaries. We will consider the significance and reach
 of research impacts, and the levels of research income to evaluate success.

 Commitment: Ethos
 Objective 3: To nurture a research culture that supports both high-quality academic
 scholarly work and immersive collaboration with research users.
 We will create and evolve a reward and recognition framework that fully accounts for the diverse
 ways in which business and management research and impact can be excellent. We will carefully
 nuance and calibrate the implications of this objective for the career trajectories of staff at different
 levels. We will evaluate progress by analysing the career progression of staff with different
 research strengths, and our publication and impact achievements.
 Objective 4: To increase the proportion of our research projects that have an explicit focus
 on creating socioeconomic impact and building inclusive societies.
 We will encourage and provide enhanced levels of support (e.g., seedcorn grants, PhD
 studentships) to projects that align with this objective. We will identify and nurture such projects
 through close ADR-ADE-Director of Research Impact (DRI) collaboration. The DRI already
 maintains a regularly updated list of nascent and emergent Unit projects in this category (see
 Sections 1.2 and 4.2 for illustrations). We will assess success through annual evaluations of staff
 research publications and of the aims stated in bids for research funding. Possible indicators of
 progress will include publications and projects that focus on responsible and ethical governance,
 fair and inclusive workplaces, digital and financial inclusion, social value creation, and sustainable
 business models.

 Commitment: Reputation
 Objective 5: To promote the outcomes of current research capabilities and to facilitate the
 evolution of new capabilities through organic growth.
 We will use our six research capabilities - Business in Emerging Markets, Corporate Governance,
 Decision Analytics, Digital Innovations, Energy and Sustainability and Future of Work - to improve
 our strategic positioning and to get our messages heard and acted upon by stakeholders. The
 ADR-led SBE Research Committee will encourage and support the bottom-up development of
 new research capabilities, whose progress and strategic potential will be regularly assessed. Our
 pipeline of ambitious research projects and engagements indicate that we are poised to make
 intellectual, practical and policy contributions that will:
 • foster financial inclusion in emerging economies.
 • encourage socially responsible governance in multinational corporations.
 • facilitate strategic deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) tools in a range of sectors.
 • develop new knowledge about the impact of digital innovations on sustainable livelihoods.
 • inform pro-environmental strategies and behaviours of governments.
 • create fairer and inclusive organisational development strategies.

 Objective 6: To enhance the international visibility of our research.
 We will embed a new ‘research visibility’ programme into our staff development processes and
 help staff at all levels craft visibility improvement strategies relevant to their research. This
 programme will work in tandem with our current approach to facilitating research impact (see
 Section 1.3 above) and focus specifically on research translation and social media engagement.
 We will use a mix of traditional (e.g., editorial board appointments and citations of research
 outputs) and alternative metrics (e.g., Altmetrics data) to evaluate progress. We will continue to

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assess the international visibility levels of our research outputs via rankings of research quality
 and productivity such as the QS subject rankings and the FT50 list of scholarly journals in concert
 with discipline specific rankings (e.g., Association for Information Systems research rankings).

 1.5. Open research environment

 The University has been a pioneer of the ‘Open’ agenda, establishing the Institutional Repository
 for text-based research in 2005 and the Data Repository in 2015. The two repositories were unified
 as the new Research Repository in 2019 to provide a single interface to the University’s research
 outputs, enhancing their visibility, discoverability, and re-use.

    Since 2015, the Unit’s research outputs have received over 2.5M views and have been
    downloaded more than 2.3M times.

 The Repository links to the Unit’s publication information system and, since 2014, we have aimed
 for Unit staff to deposit outputs within three months of acceptance, exceeding the REF2021
 requirement. We have deposited 80% of our published journal articles (2014-2020) in the
 Research Repository. The University’s landmark Open Research Position Statement committed
 to depositing the full text of all primary research outputs in the Research Repository (including on
 closed access where unavoidable) from 2020. The Unit has deposited 100% of its peer-reviewed
 journal articles (published in 2020) in line with this commitment.

 1.6. Research integrity

 The University’s Ethical Policy Framework is the foundation of the Unit’s culture of research
 integrity. All Unit staff are responsible for ensuring adherence to this Framework in respect of the
 nature, conduct, dissemination and foreseeable end-use of research and the behaviour of
 researchers. They are responsible for conducting ethics checks on all proposed projects and
 routing necessary approvals through dedicated Ethics sub-committees (e.g., focusing on human
 participants), or to the main University Ethics Committee. All staff apply for approval via the online
 ethics system, Loughborough University Ethics Online (LEON), which incorporates an initial
 signoff by the ADR at the School level. LEON covers investigations involving human participants
 and integrates the ethical processes relating to research involving security sensitive research. It
 is a one-stop shop for risk assessment, and participant information and informed consent provision
 for all research projects.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy

 Our staffing strategy aims to sustain a community of world-leading researchers in the Unit’s current
 and emerging areas of research strength. We regularly assess succession needs and use new
 appointments strategically to ensure critical mass and leadership. A key focus of our strategy in
 the REF period has been on ensuring the Unit’s vitality and sustainability through strong ECR
 recruitments, leading to a moderate shift in staff profile across grades (see Table 4). Notably, the
 Unit employs 29FTE ECRs on the REF2021 census date, a 107% increase from REF2014. The
 Unit’s research base has expanded substantially with a 55% increase (+49.3FTE) in eligible
 Category A staff, from 89.4FTE on the REF2014 census date to 138.7FTE on the REF2021
 census date. The number of Professors has been largely constant, with 15FTE growth at
 SL/Reader and 35FTE growth at Lecturer level.

                                        Table 4. Staff profile

    Assessment            Lecturer           Senior Lecturer           Reader          Professor
                          % (FTE)               % (FTE)                % (FTE)          % (FTE)

      REF2021             46% (64)               20% (28)              9% (12)         25% (34.7)

      REF 2014            32% (29)               21% (19)               7% (6)         40% (35.4)


 We have recruited talented scholars during the REF period, making 40 ECR, 22 mid-career and
 17 professorial appointments, through a combination of strategic investments (e.g., LUL
 institutes), growth in SBE, and replacement posts created following staff departures and
 retirements. These include two ECRs and two professorial appointments made through the
 University’s ‘Excellence 100 campaign’.
 • We recruited our ECR cohort from established PhD programmes in the UK (e.g., Bath,
      Cambridge, Glasgow, Imperial College, King’s College, Leeds, LSE, Loughborough,
      Manchester, Nottingham, Sussex, Warwick), Finland (Aalto, Hanken School of Economics),
      France (e.g., Toulouse), Germany (e.g., TU Berlin), India (IIM Kozhikode), South Korea
      (Pohang) and USA (UC Berkley).
 • Our mid-career appointees held prior academic positions in leading UK institutions (e.g.,
      Birmingham, King’s College, Lancaster, Nottingham, Reading, Sheffield).
 • Our incoming Professors had earlier stints at established universities (e.g., King’s College -
      Edwards; LSE - Montibeller; Manchester - Holland and Kawalek; Sheffield - Arnold; Warwick -
      Giulietti and Podinovski). These appointments have strengthened our research, enhanced our
      external reputation, and provided strategic leadership to the Unit’s research organisation. For
      instance, Giulietti is part of transformational interdisciplinary projects linked to Energy and
      Sustainability; Podinovski heads the Management Science and Operations Group and has
      produced world-leading Decision Analytics scholarship.

 We have balanced investments in new staff with promotions to 25 ECR and mid-career staff
 through the internal University system (e.g., Argyris, Dy, Fu, Grosman, Raffoni, Spencer to Senior
 Lecturer; Choudhary, Coombs, Sage, Tako to Reader; Cooke, Glass, Hodgkinson, Vivian to
 Professor). We take steps to nurture a friendly and supportive culture, which allows staff to realise
 their research aspirations and ambitions. The Unit has promoted an environment in which staff
 feel that they can seek internal promotion, rather than move elsewhere. The Director of Academic
 Development (O’Sullivan) advises and works with staff as they progress towards promotion. Staff
 are encouraged to approach and discuss their research progress with the Director of Academic
 Development, who also frequently meets all staff in academic leadership roles (e.g., Heads of
 academic groups) to identify potential promotion cases. Thus, we ensure that all staff are included
 in promotion conversations and receive appropriate guidance. The Director of Academic
 Development’s inputs inform the Unit’s decisions in relation to promotion applications and staff

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 retention. In instances where staff have had approaches from other universities, we have
 responded by carefully looking at the merits of individual cases and implementing retention
 measures where appropriate, most commonly promotion. In this respect, the University operates
 a ‘Fast Track’ system for promotion, and we have used this facility on multiple occasions.

 The School Senior Management Team (SMT), led by the Dean, manages the succession planning
 process for research leadership roles, taking inputs from staff across the Unit in assessing fit
 between candidate successors’ strengths and role requirements. Typically, successors ‘shadow’
 incumbents for three months before formally starting in the role, which ensures a smooth transition.
 Succession examples in the REF period include the ADE role (Saker to Souchon) and
 Directorships (e.g., Edwards to Schnyder, Institute for International Management).

 2.2. Staff development

    •   A fair and transparent workload model operates and applies throughout the Unit.
    •   All staff receive a dedicated allowance for research (at least 34% of their time), with
        additional allocations for PhD supervision, research grants, and impact and enterprise
        projects, including REF impact case study preparation.

 Teaching for staff is organised and managed carefully to provide uninterrupted blocks of research
 time. The School SMT is responsible for staff development with SBE benefitting from a dedicated
 Head of Academic Staff (Coupland) role, which oversees staff development activities. This role,
 which is part of the School’s SMT (since 2008), underscores our continued commitment to
 upholding the values of consistency and equal opportunity in staff development policies. Support
 for career progression and development of research associates follows the principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The University’s HR Excellence
 in Research Award (continuously since 2010, renewed 2018) from the European Commission
 evidences our successful implementation of the Concordat.

 Support for ECRs
 Our long-standing New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP) for probationary appointments, led by the Pro
 Vice Chancellor (Research), offers three years of comprehensive training for ECRs.

    Strongly protected teaching workload (33%, 50%, 67% of Unit norms in consecutive years)
    allows establishment of the full academic profile (research, teaching, enterprise) at a
    manageable pace, guided by an experienced and trained academic advisor.

 NLP covers all aspects of research and impact (publication, funding, collaboration, public
 engagement, partnerships), guarantees co-supervision of a PhD student and leads to FHEA
 status. Academic Advisors (typically, a Professor or Reader) meet with ECRs regularly and provide
 them with mentoring and support. Advisors also perform a formal review annually, which gives
 ECRs the opportunity to specifically discuss progress in research and their evolving
 developmental needs. Over the REF period, 19 ECRs have successfully completed the NLP and
 20 ECRs are currently enrolled in the programme. ECRs are prioritised in the allocation of internal
 PhD studentships, and 94% of our ECRs (2014-2020) have served as co-supervisors on
 successfully completed or ongoing PhD projects.

 Mentoring support beyond NLP
 SBE’s ADR and other experienced staff on both campuses regularly provide advice and support
 to colleagues around managing research time, developing resilience, creating research and
 impact plans, writing and publication strategies, funding applications, and dealing with difficult
 collaborations. All staff are offered the opportunity to be mentored informally by experienced
 colleagues in the Unit who are not their line manager. This informal and voluntary mentoring,
 arranged by SBE’s Head of Academic Staff, is an enduring element of the Unit’s research culture
 and environment and one of the reasons we are perceived as a collegial and desirable place to
 pursue a rewarding research career. In addition, the Unit is part of the University’s Coaching,

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mentoring and Buddying Framework, which supports less experienced colleagues to achieve
 developmental goals over a 12-month period. For instance, experienced SBE staff (e.g.,
 O’Sullivan and Ravishankar) have mentored LUL staff (e.g., Zhang and Zhao), leading to positive
 outcomes in terms of improved access to international networks and development of a balanced
 research portfolio. We also fund mid-career female staff to attend the national Aurora Leadership
 Programme run by Advance HE.

 Performance Development Review (PDR)
 The annual PDR, completed by all Unit staff, is integral to staff research performance assessment
 and development. It provides an opportunity to reflect on achievements over the past year and
 discuss research plans with an experienced colleague, who has been trained to conduct the PDR
 (training is also available to reviewees). Annual updates, briefings and refresher training are
 provided by the University’s HR and Organisational Development unit with input and mediation by
 the School Senior Management Team. The PDR agrees objectives for research outputs, impact
 related activities, funding applications and progress of PhD students. It also offers insights into the
 research aspirations of staff and allows specific research development and training needs to be
 identified. For instance, PDR conversations around funding led to the introduction of our Research
 Escalator Scheme (see Section 3.2), which supports staff in planning and writing strong research
 bids.

 Rewards and recognition
 We celebrate the success of our staff and motivate them in multiple ways. Financial rewards are
 considered at the end of the PDR process by the School Senior PDR Review Group, which
 includes the Dean, ADR, ADE, and Head of Academic Staff. Staff rated ‘Exceeds Expectations’
 are put forward to the University for an additional increment or percentage increase in salary. We
 also reward high performers for one-off outstanding performances through individual lump sum
 payments and team awards that recognise a collaborative ethos. Total reward spend in the REF
 period has exceeded £200k. In addition, the Dean’s annual awards in the Researcher, Impact on
 Practice, ECR and PhD student categories celebrate publication, funding, research leadership and
 impact. Unit staff (Barnard, Choudhary, Franco, Gruber and Montibeller) have also won University
 CALIBRE Awards that recognise outstanding achievements in research impact.

 Research and impact leave
 We support intensive study periods (typical duration: six months) on full salary in the form of School
 and University Fellowships, which provide focused time to pursue an agreed programme of
 research and impact work. 74 Fellowships were approved in the current REF period. For instance:
 • Wilson’s Fellowship (2015) was hosted at Singapore Management University (SMU) and led
    to the publication of a well-received book on the future of management education in Africa, co-
    authored with colleagues at SMU.
 • Ellis-Chadwick’s Fellowship (2018) involved data collection and engagement with non-
    academic users and contributed to the impact case study on sustainable high streets.
 • Spencer’s Fellowship (2017) was hosted at Hitotsubashi University and led to two articles in
    highly regarded academic journals and the start of a project on monetary policy with
    economists at the Bank of Japan.

 Support for external activities and engagements
 We have a dedicated research budget (£2k per capita, but transferable between staff to ensure
 that colleagues having a highly active year can go over £2k) that helps staff present their research
 externally and build professional networks. Unit staff regularly present their work at the major
 international conferences of a wide range of scholarly associations, and at specialist conferences
 and workshops. The Unit has spent c.£1.7M total through this channel since 2014, supporting
 participation on over 1400 occasions in conferences and workshops.

 We allocate seedcorn funding for research and impact activities, on a competitive basis. Of the 58
 seedcorn projects funded (budget: £244k), 54 led to externally funded projects, supported the
 early stages of impact case studies, or led to peer-reviewed publications. Some illustrative
 examples:

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   funding to Schnyder supported pilot research for the successful EU NORFACE bid to study
     populist backlash and its effects on the rule of law.
 •   funding to Fu, Grosman, Richey and Zhang laid the ground for their respective British
     Academy/Leverhulme research grants.
 •   funding to Choudhary and Tako enabled work that fed into two impact case studies.
 •   awards to Franco and Zimmermann led to research articles on decision-making via facilitated
     modelling and offshore outsourcing respectively, which are included among our submitted
     outputs.

 Research seminars and workshops
 We regularly organise and host research seminars and professional development workshops (530
 since 2014) that stimulate scholarly discussions, provide opportunities for friendly and constructive
 peer-reviews of research being written-up and share the latest research ideas and innovations.
 We invite a broad range of speakers and facilitators, including:
 • established scholars holding editorial positions in world-leading journals: Brown - Management
     Science, Gambardella - Strategic Management Journal, Kankanhalli - MIS Quarterly, Patriotta
     - Journal of Management Studies, Silverman - Journal of International Business Studies.
 • leaders from industry: Chief Executive Officers of Saatchi and Saatchi (Senior) and Shazam
     (Fisher), Chief Technology Officer at IBM (Hope), Director of Carbon Trust (Barrow), Head of
     Operations at Rolls Royce (Chaisty).
 • experts in public sector organisations: Director of Public Information at House of Commons
     (Bridges), Technical Strategy Lead at UK DSTL (Stansfield), Deputy Director at Office for
     National Statistics (Turrell).
 The Unit also runs a research writing club that meets fortnightly (in both SBE and LUL) for two
 hours to offer staff time away from other academic responsibilities, and the space to do undisturbed
 writing.

 Interest Groups
 Since 2013, we have encouraged and given visibility to Interest Groups (IGs), which are informal
 groups of Unit staff (minimum: four staff per IG) interested in developing ideas around a
 contemporary theme. We support eight IGs, which receive a small budget to organise research
 seminars and workshops. We see IGs as relaxed, informal creative spaces that contribute to the
 vibrancy of our research culture and create opportunities for new projects to develop. For instance,
 the IG on Trade Agreements and Negotiation Strategies (led by Edwards H.) has hosted policy-
 focused workshops around the post-Brexit UK economic landscape and works closely with the
 UK’s Department for International Trade and the Confederation of British Industry. The IG on
 Money and Developing Economies (led by Ahmad) was a key player in an international consortium
 (budget: £1.72M) of nine partners (e.g., Universities of Birmingham, Ghana-Legon, Groningen;
 Brookings Institute) that identified effective policy instruments for promoting financial inclusion and
 sustained growth in low-income countries (ESRC, Ahmad, £210k).

 2.3. Research students

     •   The REF2021 period has seen 191 PhD completions, a 204% increase (+97% per
         capita staff) from REF2014.
     •   45% of our PhD graduates are women and 45% are from the BAME community.

 Our aim is for every Postgraduate Research (PGR) student to be simultaneously at home in their
 School while being part of a wider University research environment that facilitates career
 development and networking. We integrate PGR (PhD) students into the Unit research culture by
 affiliating them with SBE academic groups or LUL institutes, through regular supervisory meetings
 and by attendance at research seminars. PhD students have ample open plan office space and
 computing facilities on each desk.

 Our PhD students are fully engaged in the development of their community. Both SBE and LUL
 have elected Student Representatives and a Lead Representative. They report to the PGR

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students’ President who represents the School Representatives’ views institutionally at both
 Doctoral College Sub-Committee and Research Committee. As well as engaging with PhD
 Student Representatives, participation in the annual Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES) and the Doctoral College Wellbeing Survey ensures that our processes and systems are
 responsive to the experiences of PhD students. For instance, in response to the 2017 PRES
 results, we developed a student-led research seminar series and implemented an informal
 mentoring system between yearly cohorts.

 Funding
 153 PhD students started their studies in the current REF period. The Unit provided three-year
 studentships (total funding £6M) to 61% of the starters; 24% were self-funded and 15% had
 external funding from national governments, the ESRC Midlands Graduate School Doctoral
 Training Partnership (DTP) and the EPSRC Sustainable Hydrogen Centre for Doctoral Training
 (CDT). The EPSRC studentships are aligned with studentships from our Midlands Innovation
 partners (the eight research-intensive universities in the Midlands) to form the Energy Research
 Accelerator Doctoral Academy, which addresses industry-led research challenges in the energy
 sector. Our EPSRC CDT students benefit from an enhanced programme and training provision,
 including a 42-month programme length, individual Research Training Support Grants, and
 tailored cohort activities. We also employ six postgraduate teaching assistants (PGTAs). The
 PGTA roles are five-year positions with 50/50 time for teaching and PhD study.

 Recruitment of research students
 We require PhD students to have a good first degree in a relevant discipline and the ability to
 undertake a sustained programme of independent research. We give preference to candidates
 with a postgraduate Master’s qualification. We also welcome applicants with relevant professional
 qualifications and research experience in lieu of typical academic qualifications, on a case-by-
 case basis. Decisions on the admission of candidates are taken by two members of staff and an
 interview is conducted, usually by a telephone or video call for international candidates. The
 School Research Committee (chaired by the ADR) evaluates studentship applications and makes
 allocation decisions. PhD students are welcomed via School-wide induction events at quarterly
 intake points. Students are recruited only where appropriate expert supervision is available (and
 sustainable). Applicants with disabilities are invited to identify their needs and support
 requirements, and the University’s Counselling and Disability Service provides them with
 appropriate support throughout the recruitment process.

 Support and monitoring mechanisms
 Students have two supervisors and three in special circumstances. Supervisors are allocated by
 considering research expertise, current workload, inclusivity, and experience. Students can
 contact other members of staff should they need additional guidance in a specific area, and if the
 best-fit supervision comes from two ECRs an experienced colleague joins the team to mentor and
 support all involved. The student’s supervisory team includes the Director of Doctoral Programmes
 (DDP) who monitors the supervisory arrangements and assists in the resolution of all issues and
 concerns.

 Supervisory meetings take place at least monthly and usually far more often. Meeting records are
 maintained via our electronic system, Co-Tutor, and monitored both within the Unit and the
 University’s Doctoral College. PhD students’ progress and evolving training needs are monitored
 via six-monthly reviews with an Independent Assessor. The process is overseen by the DDP and
 a formal academic panel, which ensures fairness and consistency. A rigorous academic progress
 review is held at the end of each registration year, for which students produce significant written
 work and have an interview with the Independent Assessor. Records are maintained centrally in
 the Doctoral College and re-registration requires a satisfactory review outcome. We hold quarterly
 progress review Boards, which take an overview of cohort progression.

 Quality assurance of our PhD programme is the responsibility of School ADRs and delivered by
 the respective DDPs: SBE, Sage; LUL, Vidal. The DDPs work closely with the Associate Pro Vice-
 Chancellor of the Doctoral College and sit on the Doctoral College Sub-Committee which reports

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to University Research Committee. Across the Unit, four members of support staff are dedicated
 to supporting the PhD programme’s management.

 The Unit’s PhD students access wellbeing support through the Doctoral College and from the
 respective SBE and LUL Wellbeing Advisors who offer advice and support on difficult personal
 issues (e.g., bereavement, mental health, stress). We encourage PhD students to access
 University support in the first instance but also give full access to the main Employee Assistance
 Programme which operates a 24/7 confidential helpline.

 Training and skill development
 We provide research skills training through academic supervision, access to taught modules and
 a dedicated training programme for first-year students with modules on research philosophy and
 ethics, research design and process, research communication and two modules each on
 qualitative methods, quantitative methods, and econometrics. The training programme includes a
 workshop module for students to further develop their research proposals by obtaining feedback
 from academic staff in their field. These proposals are then formally assessed by the respective
 supervisors. Workshops are offered to all students throughout the year on social media training,
 academic writing, qualitative coding, and advanced econometric techniques. PhD students are
 also encouraged to present at School research seminars.

 Our PGTAs have significant opportunities for skills development and training. Teaching activity is
 initially restricted to tutorials, student support and marking. After attaining FHEA status, PGTAs
 deliver lectures on undergraduate programmes.

 Through a dedicated budget (£50k/annum), we provide generous funding to our PhD students to
 attend conferences and workshops. In cases where a significant achievement is involved (e.g.,
 accepted paper at an important conference; nominated to participate in a prestigious doctoral
 consortium), they also have access to funding from the staff research budgets. PhD students
 benefit from vibrant and supportive sub-cultures within the Unit. The Marketing and Retailing
 academic group, for instance, run an annual PhD mini conference where students present their
 work to peers and invited staff from Loughborough and other universities. Our PhD students
 organised the Unit’s first annual PhD Conference in 2014, and this now runs annually, giving them
 an opportunity to present and receive feedback from peers and academic staff. As part of the
 Conference, Unit staff deliver a focused training session on preparing for the academic job market.

 The Doctoral College offers over 200 events annually, ranging from orientation activity for new
 students to transferable skills and employability training that meet the requirements of the
 Researcher Development Framework. Graduate House, home of the Doctoral College, provides
 a dedicated training suite for PhD students and opportunities to network across the University.

 Unit staff provide significant support to regional and national programmes. For instance, Selenko
 leads the quantitative methods training in the Loughborough section of the ESRC Midlands
 Graduate School. Tako and Robinson have led the EPSRC-funded National Taught Course
 Centre in Operational Research biennial one-week PhD courses on simulation, attended by
 around 50 PhD students from the UK and abroad.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 We have nurtured an open and culturally diverse Unit over two decades of inclusive growth and
 made considerable progress over the current REF period, as follows:

    •   Overall staff profile: 62% of Unit staff are international (39% in REF2014), 39% are
        women (25% in REF2014) and 27% belong to the BAME community (19% in REF2014).
    •   New appointments: 44% women and 35% from the BAME community.
    •   Promotions: 48% are women and 17% are from the BAME community.
    •   Leadership roles: SBE’s seven-member Senior Management Team comprises three
        women and two colleagues from the BAME community.

 EDI activity and monitoring are organised by Schools. EDI Leads (SBE, Cooke; LUL, Dasgupta)
 encourage and promote good practice, and are supported by data reports (e.g., funding, PhD
 completion, staff promotion data organised by ethnicity and gender) generated by the Planning
 Office. University-run courses on Respecting Diversity and Unconscious Bias are mandatory for
 staff, and the School Senior Management Team attends a bespoke Unconscious Bias course. All
 staff have access to an on-campus support network called CONFIDE, which consists of
 colleagues from across the University who are trained to deal with cases of harassment and
 bullying. All staff involved in recruitment and selection undergo rigorous EDI training to ensure that
 no individual or group is disadvantaged, and all interview panels (since 2014) are mixed-gender.
 As part of the University’s Level 2 Disability Confident Employer certificate (renewed in 2019), we
 guarantee an interview to applicants with a declared disability who meet the essential criteria
 outlined in job descriptions. The University is one of the first 10 UK HEIs to adopt the Race Equality
 Charter.

 We support flexible working arrangements. Staff may request up to two hours each day free from
 timetabled teaching (e.g., to accommodate school runs). All formal School meetings are restricted
 to core hours of 10am-4pm. We provide both short-term compassionate leave and longer-term
 flexible working for ongoing responsibilities (e.g., caring for family members in poor health). We
 support staff returning from parental, maternity, adoption, caring responsibilities, sick or other long-
 term leave through a phased workload reintroduction extending over two years. Drawing on the
 advice of the University’s Occupational Health Service, we make accommodations for staff with
 health challenges and long-term medical conditions (e.g., via additional support for teaching and
 marking duties).

 We allow staff to work remotely so long as their teaching and administrative responsibilities are
 fulfilled. Remote working is facilitated via a VPN (with secure multifactor authentication) that
 provides access to all University online resources. All staff are given a desktop computer and have
 the alternative option of a laptop plus docking station. These policies and supporting
 infrastructure have eased the transition to effective home working during the COVID pandemic.

 2.5. EDI in the construction of REF submission

 The University’s Research Committee created the REF Code of Practice (CoP) Working Group in
 October 2018. All research active staff (including staff on leave) were contacted individually during
 the CoP consultation by the SBE and LUL Deans, respectively. The CoP set out the roles and
 responsibilities, job descriptions and terms of reference of the Unit’s submission team. All Unit
 staff involved in preparing the REF submission have attended dedicated and compulsory EDI and
 unconscious bias training. The Unit’s REF submission is constructed by an 18-member mixed-
 gender team led by the SBE ADR (Ravishankar) and has representation from all SBE academic
 groups, LUL institutes and the Unit’s external Strategic Advisory Board. A six-member mixed-
 gender sub-committee of the Unit’s REF submission team selected the nine submitted impact
 case studies from a larger pool of strong cases, through a peer-review process followed by a
 consensus-building meeting. The sub-committee included the Director of Research Impact whose
 remit was to enable all potential cases to be developed and presented to best possible effect.


                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our submitted research outputs were selected through a fair and inclusive internal peer-review
 process, with at least two qualified Unit staff reviewing and scoring each eligible output. 54 staff
 from across the Unit served as internal assessors of outputs. The University’s equality impact
 assessment programme analysed our research outputs by gender, maternity leave, ethnicity and
 ECR status with attention to overall selection, allocation of co-authored outputs and characteristics
 of threshold-spanning outputs and found no evidence of bias.

    We have attributed 33% of our submitted research outputs to female staff and 27% to BAME
    staff, which is comparable to the Unit’s overall staff composition of 39% female and 27%
    BAME. 30% of the Unit’s female staff, but only 15% of the Unit’s male staff, are ECRs. This
    accounts for the difference between 39% and 33%.




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research funding and strategies

 We view research funding not as an end in itself, but as one of the means available to us for
 conducting impactful research and engaging with the world.

 Staff developing funding bids receive comprehensive support, including dedicated staffing
 resources, a Research Escalator Scheme, internal seedcorn funding and networking events (see
 Section 3.2 below). In addition to a formal peer review scheme that operates at the Unit level,
 experienced colleagues with strong funding records provide feedback on successive drafts of bids.
 We supported 406 bids worth £37.4M in the current REF period.

    •   We received funding for 106 proposals (success rate 26%), total value £6.08M, plus
        studentship funding of £500k from UKRI and industry.
    •   This research income is 130% up on REF2014 (50% increase per capita) which attests
        to the resilience of our research environment considering the number of ECRs recruited
        and the start-up of our LUL institutes since 2014.
    •   In addition, we received £2.4M for research and impact activities such as contract
        research, consultancy, IP and short course income, and HEIF supported projects.

 The composition of funding sources has shifted considerably since 2014, in a manner that
 underscores the internationalisation of our research profile as well as the growing recognition of
 our research capabilities. The highest proportion of funding (53%) still comes from UK Research
 Councils, with ESRC and EPSRC contributing 21.8% each. Reflecting our more international
 outlook, the Unit has seen substantial growth in EU government funding, from 2.3% in REF2014
 to 22.1% in REF2021. This increase particularly reflects our growing reputation in Decision
 Analytics, Digital Innovations, and the Future of Work, which attracted seven EU awards, including
 participation in four prestigious research consortia:
 • Integrated and Adaptive Responses to Toxic Emergencies for Rapid Triage (TOXI-Triage,
     H2020, budget: €12.9M, 2015-2020), comprising seven universities, nine commercial
     organisations and two public sector bodies (£284k, Jackson).
 • Integrated Support System for Efficient Water Usage and Resources Management (ISS-
     EWATUS, FP7-ICT, budget: €3.4M, 2014-2017), a network of six universities and four
     commercial entities (£227k, Yang).
 • Novel Empowering Solutions and Technologies for Older people to Retain Everyday life
     activities (NESTORE, H2020, budget: €4.9M, 2017-2020), composed of six universities, two
     research institutions, five industrial partners and three third sector organisations (£136k,
     Sykora).
 • Communities of PrACTice for Accelerating Gender Equality and Institutional Change in
     Research and Innovation across Europe (ACT, H2020, budget: €3M, 2018-2021), comprising
     eight universities, one commercial organisation, one research institution, four public sector and
     three third sector organisations (£100k, Barnard).

 A particular focus in the REF period has been on developing collaborative interdisciplinary/cross-
 disciplinary bids. The UK Research Councils have funded 36 such projects. For example:
 • Applying artificial intelligence (AI) in the insurance industry (ESRC, £1.3M, Milne, 2018-2022).
     This prestigious cross-disciplinary research consortium has implications for the delivery of AI-
     based innovation in business models, underwriting and risk analytics, claims processing and
     customer engagement. It is led and delivered by Unit staff in partnership with eight leading
     organisations including IBM, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Jaguar Land Rover and Lloyds Bank.
 • Exploring how project innovations can help construction firms meet carbon reduction targets
     (ESRC, £176k, Sage, 2015-2017) in a consortium (£409k) of six industrial partners and two
     universities.
 • Exploring the work of globalising actors (ESRC, £286k, 2016-2019) and social innovations
     (ESRC, £156.5k, 2020-2022) in multinational companies (Edwards).

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Developing information technology solutions for manufacturing (EPSRC, £474k, Jackson,
     2014-2019) through a consortium (£1.94M) of 11 industrial partners (e.g., GE Aviation, SAP
     AG, Ford) and the UK government’s Ministry of Defence.
 •   Addressing obstacles for the deployment of city-scale energy storage (EPSRC, £88.5k,
     Giulietti, 2015-2019) in a consortium (£1.1M) of eight commercial partners (e.g., Tata Steel,
     EDF Energy), four public sector entities (e.g., Leeds City Council) and four universities.
 •   Improving internet access in public libraries (AHRC, £104.9k, Cooke, 2014-2015) through a
     collaboration with the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Services.
 •   Proposing novel financial instruments that aid recovery from natural disasters (NERC, £270k,
     Milne, 2018-2020) through a consortium of six industrial partners and the Government of
     Indonesia.

 We increased our research income from UK charities by 77.1% with grants for research on supply
 chain analytics (Choudhary, British Council 2017-2020), future of the Finance function in
 organisations (Herbert, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, 2014-2018), refugee
 support in emerging markets (Richey, Society for Advancement of Management Studies and
 British Academy of Management, 2020-2022), and socio-economic impacts of mental health
 (Rasciute, Health Foundation, 2018-2020).

 Significant industry-funded projects included work with BMW and Ford (Jackson, 2014-2022), BT
 (Liu, 2017), BAE Systems (Sykora, 2016) and Triumph Motorcycles (Kawalek, 2019-2021). We
 also held a two-year British Academy mid-career Fellowship (Charlwood, 2014-2016) and hosted
 a two-year Marie Curie research fellowship (Arnold/Taneva, 2014-2016).

 We have been responsive to emerging priorities, receiving funding for two COVID projects:
 • to investigate the role of digital platforms in COVID emergency response, through a
   partnership with the UK Cabinet Office’s Civil Contingencies Secretariat (ESRC, £109k, Sage,
   2020-2022). The project’s findings are being shared monthly with 80,000 emergency
   responders across the UK.
 • to support critical medical resource rationing through algorithmic models (UKRI, £115k, Li D.,
   2020-2022). The models developed through this research are being tested in hospitals in
   collaboration with the NHS Clinical Commissioning Group for Bristol and surrounding areas.

 Research funding directly contributed to 124 high quality peer-reviewed outputs including,
 amongst those submitted, outputs explaining:
 • why some consumers are unlikely to invest in energy efficient technologies (EPSRC, Giulietti
    - Research Policy).
 • the role of relational human affects in the proliferation of new technologies (ESRC, Sage -
    Organization Studies).
 • the management of sustainability risks in freight transportation systems (British Council,
    Choudhary - Risk Analysis).
 • the contribution of simulation models to insight generation and problem-solving (UK Industry
    funding, Tako and Robinson - European Journal of Operational Research).

 3.2. Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 In addition to central support through the Research and Enterprise Office (REO), which ranges
 from development of bids and skills training to partnership development, commercialisation and
 legal support (see REF 5a), Unit staff benefit from tailored research support: three Research
 Development Managers (RDMs), who are part of the REO, are embedded in the Unit with
 dedicated office space. The RDMs (all PhD degree holders with open-ended contracts) support
 staff through all stages of a funding application, from idea generation to final submission. Working
 with the ADR, they alert staff to upcoming funding opportunities, assess fit between research ideas
 and funder requirements, arrange internal peer-reviews of bid drafts, and organise our Research
 Escalator scheme. The Scheme extends over three years: Staff develop a personalised plan of
 action for external funding, developing from a small through to a large grant application supported


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by one-to-one mentoring from colleagues with a track record of successful bids. 18 staff (6 per
 year) have joined this programme since 2019. The first cohorts have recently submitted large
 research bids and are awaiting decisions.

 Impact is supported by a dedicated Partnership Development Manager, who is part of the REO
 and works with Unit staff (and PhD students) to build knowledge exchange partnerships, generate
 impact from research, and apply for HEIF funding through the University’s Enterprise Projects
 Group (EPG). Our staff have benefitted considerably from this EPG support in the REF period,
 attracting £129k for 11 impact projects, of which three supported impact case studies and the rest
 fed into a wider range of impact work described in Section 4.2.

 Overall, we estimate that the Unit has invested £37.1M into maintaining and enhancing the vitality
 and sustainability of the research and impact environment (see Table 5).

                  Table 5. Internal direct investment for Unit research and impact

  Workload research allocation (34%)                                                         £24.2M
  Research study periods                                                                     £2.4M
  Seedcorn funding                                                                           £244k
  Research activity support (e.g., staff travel, research centre initiatives)                £3M
  PhD studentships and support                                                               £6M
  Three Research Development Managers (2FTE) + Partnership Development                       £1.2M
  Manager (1FTE)
  Academic visitor programme                                                                 £105k
  Total research and impact investment (internal)                                            £37.1M

 3.3. Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact

 The Unit benefited considerably from the opening of the University’s London campus. The new
 campus, with over 9,000 square metres of collaborative learning space, operates out of the former
 Olympic Broadcast building on the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in the new innovation quarter
 known as Here East. The campus is home to LUL, which is one of the University’s nine Schools,
 and is equipped with purpose-built lecture theatres and seminar rooms, and a satellite of the main
 library operating 24/7.

 LUL also serves as a base for events organised by Unit staff on both campuses. For instance, it
 has hosted a series of public engagement workshops, disseminating the findings of projects (e.g.,
 internet and Wi-Fi access in public libraries (AHRC, Cooke); Brexit negotiations (ESRC,
 Georgiadou); post-Brexit international trade arrangements (ESRC, Milne); globalising actors in
 multinational companies (ESRC, Edwards)).

 Staff and PhD students benefit from the Pilkington Library (on the Loughborough campus), which
 has 70 members of staff and covers 9,161 square metres over four floors with 1,116 study places
 and 254 workstations. It has over 500,000 books, 90,000 bound serials and access to
 approximately 30,000 e-journals. It utilises the Ex-Libris’ Primo resource discovery system, which
 provides the facility to search across multiple digital and print resources from one search interface.
 The library has signed agreements with publishers of business and management journals
 including Wiley, Sage, Taylor and Francis, and Springer, which allow Unit staff to make their
 articles Open Access without additional cost.

 The University’s IT and e-Learning team provide specific IT support for the Unit’s research.
 Hardware is upgraded on a three-year rolling basis. Software required for research (e.g., the
 Qualtrics online survey platform) is purchased, installed, and managed through this team. SBE
 also has a trading room, supporting finance-related research with Thomson Eikon software
 installed on 17 Macintosh computers in a dedicated laboratory.



                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Research collaborations: arrangements and effectiveness

 SBE’s seven academic groups and LUL’s two institutes provide a solid base and impetus for the
 Unit’s research collaborations. 60% of the peer-reviewed scholarly outputs produced by Unit staff
 in the REF period had international collaborators. We worked with co-authors in 101 UK, 297
 European, 130 Asia-Pacific, 94 North American, 16 South American, 15 African and 15 Middle
 Eastern institutions. In our externally funded research projects, we partnered with approximately
 200 national and international organisations across academia, business, third sector and
 government. These collaborative activities have helped the Unit to take centre stage in knowledge
 exchange activities, policy discussions, research conferences and professional development
 workshops.

 We recognise that strong research connections are not always built via top-down strategic
 mandates, and that our staff are intrinsically motivated to expand and develop their professional
 networks. In addition to our main structural arrangements for research and the initiatives for staff
 development detailed in Section 2 that support collaborations and partnership building, we
 facilitate external engagement through a range of mechanisms.

 We run a vibrant academic visitor program, which is supported by a dedicated budget (£15k per
 annum). In the REF period, we have hosted 132 scholars and their visits have spurred funded
 research projects and peer-reviewed publications with colleagues in institutions such as IITs -
 Delhi, Bombay, and Kharagpur (Choudhary); University of Nebraska, Omaha (Vivian); University
 of Sao Paulo (Coombs); University of Queensland and Copenhagen Business School
 (Simeonova).

 Research Centres, which are generally rooted in one academic group but also welcome additional
 members, act as a vehicle for many successful collaborations, interdisciplinary partnerships,
 events, and outcomes.

 The Centre for Information Management (led by Kawalek) has worked with 64 external partners
 over the REF period in its externally funded research projects (total award: £2.64M). Yang
 collaborated with nine external partners and colleagues in the Department of Computer Science
 at Loughborough to develop the tApp prototype – a wireless device and mobile app which uses
 sensors to collect data about water usage and aims to improve the water consumption behaviour
 of households. tApp, which has been deployed in Greece and Poland, was nominated for the 2017
 Times Higher Education Award for International Impact and the UK IT Industry Award for
 Innovation and Entrepreneurship. The Centre for Information Management is the only UK member
 of the European Research Centre for Information Systems - the preeminent European research
 network headquartered at University of Munster, Germany, with over 30 academic members
 across Europe, Australia, and North America.

 The Centre for Work, Organisation and Society (led by Casey) supports a fruitful staff exchange
 programme with the Centre for Work Organisations and Wellbeing (WOW) at Griffith University,
 Australia, which has seen nine bilateral visits since 2014. For instance, Selenko’s visit to WOW in
 2017 led to collaborative research projects and peer-reviewed journal publications around the
 impact of precarious employment on young people’s work identity, and the effect of atypical
 working conditions on employee voice.

 The Centre for Service Management (led by Gruber) has a strong global network of more than 50
 scholars as affiliate members. In collaboration with international partners, the Centre led high-
 profile research workshops and symposia on customer experience design, service operating
 models, and service innovation in emerging markets and health care. Unit staff have made
 extensive use of these events to build their external research collaborations. Over the REF period,
 20 journal articles produced by Unit staff with international co-authors have their origin in the
 collaborations fostered through the Centre’s events.

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Centre for Productivity and Performance (co-led by Podinovski and Saal) organised and
 hosted the 2017 and 2019 editions of the prestigious European Workshop for Efficiency and
 Productivity Analysis at Senate House in London, which attracted 516 scholars from 40 countries.
 The Centre has developed an impactful research partnership with Japan’s Kindai and Kobe
 Universities, working on sewerage industry performance issues. Saal is the Principal International
 Advisor for a Japanese Ministry of Land Infrastructure Transport and Tourism funded collaborative
 project on sewerage industry performance measurement with Kindai University. This three-year
 project, which also includes Unit staff Nieswand and Triebs is providing research and policy advice
 on improving performance of the Japanese sewerage industry.

 The Centre for Corporate Entrepreneurship and Innovation (co-led by Hughes and Scholes) was
 launched in 2020. It has partnered with the School of Management at Shanghai University and
 developed projects around entrepreneurial decision-making. The Centre led a family businesses-
 themed extension of the Strategic Management Society annual conference and is collaborating
 with managers and entrepreneurs, applying insights from its internally developed LEGO board
 game prototype to help them develop a scalable, systematic approach to decision-making.

 4.2. Engagement with non-academic users

 Section 1.2 provided some illustrations of external engagement and Section 1.3 described ways
 in which we deliver research impact. Our external engagements span a diverse range of non-
 academic users. These relationships have developed through research grants, industry-
 sponsored and commissioned research, Executive Education clients, Unit-organised research
 events, staff research and consultancy contacts, and through placements offered by firms to the
 Unit’s undergraduate, MSc and MBA students (over 5000 recorded placements in the REF period).

 SBE’s Associate Dean for Enterprise (Souchon) coordinates engagements with non-academic
 users for the Unit and is supported by the Director of Research Impact, who is responsible for
 facilitating and enabling REF defined impact, as described in Section 1.3. We have the services of
 two long-standing professional roles that offer operational and administrative acumen: Business
 Development Manager (Unwin) facilitates collaborations with organisations and policy makers, and
 Industry Liaison Officer (Cufflin) organises events that connect staff with industry (e.g., practitioner
 masterclasses, alumni events).

 The Unit is supported by a Strategic Advisory Board (SAB), drawn from senior figures in the UK’s
 business and policy communities. The SAB helps Unit staff develop research connections by
 identifying emerging challenges for the wider corporate community, securing support for projects,
 and facilitating engagement with alumni, industry, and policy makers. For example, SAB-facilitated
 introductions to senior managers at EY UK and EY India drove a three-year (2014-2016) research
 collaboration with the two companies and the publication of two research articles (Zimmermann
 and Ravishankar). The first piece won a best paper award at the Annual Meeting of the Academy
 of Management (2014) in Philadelphia, and the enhanced version of this paper was published in
 the world-leading Journal of World Business (2016).

 The main non-academic users and audiences of our research include SMEs and start-up
 businesses, large businesses, public sector and multilateral organisations, and third sector and
 professional associations.

 We have engaged with and supported 411 SMEs and start-up businesses since 2014. SBE
 achieved the Small Business Charter award in 2014 (extended in 2019 for a further five years),
 which recognises commitment to provide SMEs research-informed growth and entrepreneurship
 support, so that they can enhance their productivity and contribution to the wider economy. Our
 London campus has co-hosted four FastForward Pre-Accelerator Programmes since 2017,
 supporting 99 start-up businesses and featuring 240 experts (e.g., investors, tech houses,
 marketeers, accelerators, and grant providers). We organised and hosted an investor-focused
 event (2018) at the London campus for The Accelerator Network, which attracted 50 venture

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capital and angel investors, and showcased the investment propositions of 10 start-up businesses
 on the cusp of scaling their operations. We are particularly mindful of our role in supporting and
 developing SMEs and shaping the East Midlands region’s economic performance. We work
 closely with Leicestershire Local Economic Partnership and Loughborough Advanced Technology
 and Innovation (an influential networking organisation which promotes high-tech and engineering
 businesses in the East Midlands) in providing SMEs with research-led strategic and operational
 insights. Unit staff have translated their academic research to SME audiences in practical
 workshops on decision-making for entrepreneurs (Simeonova), preparing for impacts of GDPR on
 business operations (Hughes), sustainability of social enterprises (Brooks), supporting refugee
 entrepreneurship (Richey), circular supply chains (Choudhary) and entering international markets
 (Oliveira).

    SMEs and start-up businesses. An illustrative sample: Airsense Analytics, Cloud Factory,
    Guidance Navigation, Intelligent Energy, Invotec, Manufacturing Technology Centre,
    Prometech, S2S Electronics, St. James Place.

 Our work with large businesses is substantial. Saker’s research on automotive dealership
 operations reaches managers of Audi, Ford and Renault through tailored Executive Education
 programmes (2014-2020); Jiao has used her research expertise in stochastic optimization and
 capacity management to help the Bauer Group analyse demand and improve forecasting in radio
 advertising (2020); Zimmermann and Oshri’s primary research with Scandinavian outsourcing
 practitioners and the Nordic IT & Software Development Association has directly informed the
 Swedish business law firm Lindahl KB’s implementation of innovations in legal process
 outsourcing (2015). Giulietti conducted economic analyses of energy consumption, which has
 informed Western Power Distribution’s assessment of the public’s interest in joining local district
 heating schemes and the potential effect on fuel poverty in Birmingham (2018). We have
 responded to the growing global focus on fostering digital inclusion. For instance, Richey and
 Ravishankar are applying their scholarly research on digital innovations in a collaborative project
 with eBay UK to improve effectiveness of the company’s training programme that helps charities
 generate income through online retail (2020).

    Large businesses include Anglian Water, Audi, BAE Systems, BT, BMW, Bauer Group,
    Bosch, eBay, EY, Ford, IBM, Lindahl KB, Maruti Suzuki, Renault, Rolls-Royce, SAP,
    Safexpress, Scania, Siemens, Tata Steel, Thames Water, Western Power Distribution,
    Willmott Dixon.

 We have been responsive to emerging national and global challenges, working alongside public
 sector and multilateral organisations. As a key member of an ESRC-funded interdisciplinary
 research team set up to provide analyses of UK’s Brexit negotiations, Georgiadou has engaged
 directly with public sector stakeholders, presenting and discussing her research in closed-door
 meetings (2017-2020). She has provided specific inputs to the strategic thinking of officials in
 BEIS, CBI, DIT and POST through her research into public emotions on social media and Brexit
 bargaining positions. Kawalek’s work with the Greater Manchester Police has developed an Agile-
 based method for facilitating rapid response to emerging social issues and led to innovations in
 cybercrime response and mental health policing (2016-2019). Jackson’s TOXI-Motive system
 developed as part of an EU-funded interdisciplinary project (2015-2020) uses Twitter to predict
 and track major crises. It can collect and analyse over 4,000 tweets a second, and search for key
 words, phrases and hashtags that could be linked to developing incidents. The system is being
 trialled by the UN’s Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Cheyne and
 colleagues’ research on safety management and their Safety Climate Assessment Toolkit has
 been used since 2014 in the ongoing improvement of safety management systems by UK military
 and local government. For instance, the Strategic Command of the MoD used the Toolkit in 2019
 to survey, analyse and model the safety climate in their UK sites. In collaboration with the
 Department for International Trade, Herbert led the development of an Earn-to-Learn scheme,
 which provides a framework of sustainable sourcing solutions and is designed to enable students
 to obtain quality part-time work in business process outsourcing centres (2015-2017).


                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Public sector and multilateral organisations include African Union, Bank of England,
    Cabinet Office, Civil Service Learning, Confederation of British Industry (CBI), Department
    for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), Department for Environment, Food and
    Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Department for International Trade (DIT), Department for Work and
    Pensions (DWP), Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), Foreign
    and Commonwealth Office (FCO), Greater Manchester Police, HM Treasury, House of
    Commons, Leicestershire County Council, Metropolitan Police Service, Ministry of Defence
    (MoD), NHS, OFWAT, Office for National Statistics (ONS), Organisation for Economic Co-
    operation and Development (OECD), Parliamentary office of Science and Technology
    (POST), Public Health England, Home Office, United Nations Organisation for the
    Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

 We have collaborated extensively with third sector and professional associations. Barnard and
 Arnold co-led a large-scale project with Advance HE on how higher education organisations can
 better harness and value the leadership skills of female academic and professional services staff
 (2015-2020). Wilson undertook an audit of the structure and strategy of UK Business Schools
 (2016-2018), leading to the publication and wide dissemination of a Chartered Association of
 Business Schools (CABS) report. This work has informed the thinking of Business School Deans
 across the UK and figures prominently in all CABS-organised professional development
 programmes for Deans and Directors. Unit staff have provided regular research-led inputs to The
 Entrepreneurial Refugee Network (TERN) - an acclaimed London-based social enterprise that
 supports refugees in the creation and development of their businesses - since its inception in 2016.
 As well as providing TERN with practical support, such as workshop facilities at the Unit’s London
 campus, Richey, Ravishankar and Brooks have conducted primary research with a network of
 more than 350 TERN refugee entrepreneurs and developed a framework for fostering self-
 determination via entrepreneurship-themed interventions, which has informed the strategies of
 social enterprises in the UK and Europe. Silvester works with the Local Government Association
 (LGA) and the Westminster Foundation for Democracy. Her political skills framework (developed
 in 2012) is part of LGA’s New Member Charter and the Councillor Handbook (2020), which is free
 to all newly elected councillors in England and Wales.

    Third sector and professional associations include Amnesty International, Advance HE,
    African Entrepreneur Collective, Building Societies Association, Chartered Association of
    Business Schools (CABS), Centre for Entrepreneurs UK, Chartered Institute of Personnel
    and Development, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, Impact Hub King’s
    Cross, Local Government Association, Malaria Consortium, The Entrepreneurial Refugee
    Network (TERN), Westminster Foundation for Democracy.

 4.3. Contribution to academic disciplines, and indicators of wider influence

    We have hosted or made significant contributions to 212 research-based events and
    initiatives in 46 countries. These include research symposia, seminar series, conferences,
    masterclasses, and skills training for researchers.

 We hosted the Operational Research (OR) Society’s annual conference (2017) and the Carbon
 Trust-funded annual conference of the UK Forum for Supply Chain Sustainability (2017). We
 organised the annual conference of the Network of Industrial Economists in collaboration with the
 Royal Economic Society (2017). In partnership with the Society for Advancement of Management
 Studies, we ran two extensions of the annual conference of the Strategic Management Society
 (2018) and a research symposium on service innovation in emerging markets (2017). We led a
 Newton Fund supported three-day workshop for 30 (UK and Malaysian) ECRs in Kuala Lumpur
 on developing an agenda for fintech research in emerging economies (2017). We co-hosted the
 annual Global Sourcing Workshop (2014-2018), which attracted scholars from 20 countries and
 helped develop over 30 peer-reviewed articles published over the REF period in highly ranked
 journals of the information systems discipline area. We are part of the Innovate UK Energy

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Accelerator Doctoral Academy, with Giulietti serving as lead for the business and
 economics skills training component, and as co-investigator of the Centre for Postdoctoral
 Development in Infrastructure, Cities and Energy training hub.

 Leadership roles in international conferences and research networks
 We have played key roles in both new activities and prestigious long-standing disciplinary events
 in the research calendar.
 • Robinson is a member of the Board of Directors and Tako served as track chair (2018-2020)
     for the Winter Simulation Conference.
 • Cadogan was National Co-ordinator for the UK on the European Marketing Academy (EMAC)
     Executive Committee (2015-2018) and served as track chair at all annual conferences. He
     leads the Entrepreneurship in the 21st century (E21) network, comprising scholars from 17
     countries who have collected data about the export strategies of 6,000 businesses and
     organised two national and three international E21 symposia (2015-2020).
 • Schnyder is a member of Executive Council at the Society for the Advancement of Socio-
     Economics (SASE).
 • Liu and Tako were Conference Co-Chairs of the 2017 Annual Conference of the Operational
     Research Society.
 • Ravishankar is Program Chair of the 2021 Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems,
     which is the largest annual gathering (with more than 600 research paper submissions) of
     information systems scholars from Asia and Australia-New Zealand.
 • Arnold was Program Co-Chair of the 2019 European Network of Organizational and Work
     Psychologists (ENOP) Conference; Selenko was Conference Chair of the 2016 Institute of
     Work Psychology (IWP) Conference, and organised symposia at the annual conferences of
     the European Association of Work and Organizational Psychology (EAWOP).
 • Cheyne, Grosman, Lagna, Liu X. and Travers organised and chaired research symposia at
     the annual meetings of the Academy of Management (AoM).
 • Coupland and Zimmermann convened streams at the annual European Group of Organization
     Studies (EGOS) Colloquium.
 • Franco convened streams at the annual European Conference on Operational Research.
 • Coombs and Spanaki chaired research tracks at major annual conferences of the Association
     for Information Systems (AIS).

 Journal editorships
 Unit staff hold decision-making editorial positions in 30 scholarly journals across disciplines such
 as Marketing, Information Systems, Operations Research, Organisational Behavior, Economics
 and Finance (see Table 6 for an illustrative list). In addition, we have recorded 112 editorial review
 board memberships in the REF period, including at Leadership Quarterly (Chizema), Journal of
 Management Studies (Hughes), Organization Studies (Casey), Journal of Service Research
 (Gruber), Transportation Research Part B (Methodological) (Li B.), Human Relations (Dy and
 Edwards), and Accounting, Organizations and Society (Grubnic). Unit staff have co-edited 40
 journal special issues, covering diverse and contemporary issues such as varieties of state
 capitalism (Grosman, Journal of World Business), power dynamics and technology (Simeonova,
 Information Systems Journal), identity work and learning (Coupland, Management Learning) and
 spatial risk analysis (Argyris, Risk Analysis).




                                                                                               Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Table 6. An illustrative list of current decision-making positions in leading journals

                       Journal                              Unit Staff         Decision-making
                                                                                  Positions

           International Marketing Review                   Cadogan              Editor-in-Chief
          Journal of Institutional Economics                Hodgson                Co-Editor
           Journal of Productivity Analysis                Podinovski              Co-Editor
                 Organization Studies                       Coupland
             Information Systems Journal                  Ravishankar
      European Journal of Information Systems               Coombs
          Journal of Information Technology               Zimmermann              Senior Editor
          Information Technology & People                    Stacey
           Annals of Operations Research                      Tako
                        Omega                              Podinovski
             European Journal of Finance                      Vivian
     Applied Psychology: An International Review             Selenko
            Information and Management                    Ravishankar           Associate Editor
           Judgment and Decision Making                       Fatas
           International Marketing Review                 Michaelidou
           International Marketing Review                     Story

 Contributions to government and funding bodies, professional associations and learned societies
 Unit staff serve regularly on review panels for ESRC (e.g., Arnold, Edwards, Holland, Milne) and
 EPSRC (e.g., Choudhary, Giulietti, Jackson, Liu). Jackson and Tako, Schnyder and Story, and
 Cooke are, respectively, members of the EPSRC, ESRC and AHRC Peer Review Colleges.
 Argyris and Cooke are members of the UKRI Future Leadership Fellows Peer Review College.
 Giulietti was a member of the Department of Energy and Climate Change (now BEIS) panel of
 technical experts which evaluated the National Grid estimates for energy auctions in the capacity
 market (2015).

 We are active in leading and advising professional associations and learned societies. Robinson
 is a member of Council of the UK’s Chartered Association of Business Schools and was President
 of the Operational Research Society (2014-2015). Hughes is a member of Council of the British
 Academy of Management. Saker is President of the Institute of the Motor Industry, which is the
 sole professional body of the UK automotive sector. Grosman is Social Media Strategy Director
 for the International Corporate Governance Society. Coyne is a Consultant Editor with the British
 Psychological Society Test Reviews and leads scholarly reviews of psychometric tests used in
 organisations. Silvester is a member of the International Advisory Board, School of Business and
 Social Sciences, University of Aarhus, Denmark. Holland is a member of the European Insurance
 and Occupational Pensions Authority’s expert group, which examines digital ethics in insurance.
 Cooke is an expert advisory member on the International Federation of Library Associations and
 Institutions’ Freedom of Expression and Access to Information Committee. Hodgson (2017) and
 Selenko (2020) were appointed as Fellows of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts,
 Manufacturing and Commerce, and Wilson is advising the Chartered Association of Business
 Schools (CABS) following his appointment as the first CABS Fellow (2017).

 Invited keynote lectures
 Unit staff gave 135 keynote speeches. For example:
  • Impacts of intelligent machines on work and employment (Coombs), 15th International
      Conference on Information Systems and Technology Management, Brazil.
  • Utility maximisation and society (Hodgson), 22nd International Network for Economic
      Research Conference (online).
  • Making better choices: The new leadership challenge (Kawalek), 18th Excellence in Policing
      Conference, UK.

                                                                                                 Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Modelling and heuristic solutions for operations planning problems (Liu), 13th International
     Conference on Bio-inspired Computing, China.

 Recognition and awards
 Over the REF period, our staff have held Visiting Professorships/Fellowships in 22 universities.
 For example:
 • In recognition of his international standing in the field of international marketing and strategy,
    Cadogan was appointed a Lifetime Honorary Professor at LUT University (Finland) where he
    runs regular research workshops on developing marketing theory, and the philosophy of
    science.
 • Ravishankar holds a Visiting Research Leader appointment at University College Cork
    (Ireland), and mentors staff projects on digital innovations and technology strategies.
 • Franco was appointed an Excellence Initiative Visiting Professor at Radboud University
    (Netherlands) for his contributions to decision analytics and advises academic staff and PhD
    students.
 • Chizema and Grosman were appointed Extraordinary Professor at University of Pretoria
    (South Africa) and Visiting Research Fellow at Luiss University (Italy), respectively, in
    recognition of their work on corporate governance, and mentor academic staff and
    postgraduate research students.

 Unit staff were recognised for their contributions to scholarly peer-reviewed research through
 many awards. For example:
 • Stacey won the Journal of the Association for Information Systems Best Paper Award for his
    work on improvisation in systems development projects (2018).
 • Montibeller received the Society of Risk Analysis Best Paper Award for his research on
    cognitive and motivational biases in decision analysis (2015) and the Informs Decision
    Analysis Practice Award (2018) for his work on improving the supply chains of malaria rapid
    diagnostic test kits (this research also contributes to one of our impact case studies).
 • Castro was awarded the Pedro Pita Barros Prize for his article on the impact of sugar
    consumption on healthcare expenditure (2018).
 • Robinson won the European Association for Operational Research Best Paper Award for the
    agenda setting journal article on operational research in the age of analytics (2015).
 • Liu received the Best Applications Paper award from the Institute of Industrial and Systems
    Engineers Transactions for research into improving and optimising container terminal
    operations (2017).
 • Gruber won the American Marketing Association SERVSIG Best Article Runner up Award for
    his research on analysing customer experience feedback using text mining (2014).
 • Hughes and Tako were recipients of the Outstanding Reviewer Award at British Journal of
    Management (2019) and European Journal Operational Research (2017) respectively.

 The broader contributions of Unit staff have also been recognised by prestigious awards:
 • Hodgson won the 2014 Schumpeter Prize for his book ‘Conceptualizing Capitalism’ (University
    of Chicago Press) and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate for his contributions to Economics
    by the University of Thessaly, Greece (2016).
 • Coupland was awarded the British Academy of Management Medal (2017) for her
    contributions to research on identities and to the development of management research.
 • Podinovski received the William W. Cooper Lifetime Contribution Award by the International
    Data Envelopment Analysis Society (2019) for his seminal contributions to advance theory,
    practice, and knowledge of data envelopment analysis.

 Finally, we provide some examples of prestigious awards made to our talented ECRs, which
 demonstrate the Unit’s vitality:
 • Corsi (Lecturer since 2019) received the Journal of Product Innovation Management Thomas
    P. Hustad Best Paper Award for his research on typologies of reverse innovation (2016).
 • Lee (Lecturer since 2018) won the Case Centre award for her case on corporate social
    responsibility with specific reference to Apple’s suppliers in China (2019).

                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Nardella (Lecturer since 2019) received a best paper award from the Academy of Management
     for research on the reputation risks associated with multinational enterprises’ irresponsible
     behaviour in global markets (2020).




                                                                                          Page 29
