Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: Royal College of Music

Unit of Assessment: 33

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The RCM is an institution wholly dedicated to the creation and critical investigation of music. Its
international profile and integration with the music industry shape its research culture. Research is
a strategic priority of the College and is supported by high levels of internal resource. Since
REF2014, RCM research has attracted significant increases in external funding; expanded existing
and introduced new areas of research through strategic recruitment; enhanced equality and diversity;
nurtured an increased cohort of early career researchers; and supported growth and diversification
in postgraduate research programmes. The RCM’s research and its impact has become increasingly
visible and influential across diverse scholarly communities, in locations and applications beyond
academia, and within the institution itself. Recent significant capital investment in physical and digital
infrastructure will provide an optimal environment for diversifying and disseminating future research,
and enhancement of its impact in the wider world. This submission summarises these achievements
and explains our strategy for research up to 2027.

Research at the RCM covers a broad range of disciplines and methodologies that investigate music’s
contemporary and historical creation, practice, and social impact on those who participate in it. The
main areas of activity are:
    • practice-based artistic research in composition and performance
    • historical musicology since c.1500
    • performance science, including the role of music in physical and mental well-being, and
        technological approaches to elite performance
    • music education in both institutional and community settings.
Researchers in each of these areas benefit from the myriad synergies afforded by an institution
focussed on collaborative musical practice. Our strategy supports an open research culture that
stimulates innovative thinking and cooperation across disciplinary boundaries. The Centre for
Performance Science (CPS) is the only discrete research centre, because of its formal partnership
with Imperial College London (ICL); nevertheless, CPS researchers are closely involved in
collaborations involving the other discipline areas. Monthly meetings of the Musicology Forum, three-
weekly meetings of CPS, and weekly Composers’ Seminars, each open to all researchers, stimulate
cross-disciplinary and collaborative projects. Since REF2014 these initiatives have helped establish
a strong, holistic, and cooperative institutional research ethos, responsive to the changing landscape
of the music profession and its wider impact in society.

Research Strategy

RCM Research is led by the Director of Research (DoR), a member of the College’s senior
management team who chairs the Research Committee (RC) made up of staff and doctoral student
representatives drawn from each discipline area; it oversees the development and fulfilment of the
RCM Research Strategy (RS) and monitors good practice in research. Headline aims for RS2014–
20 and RS2020–27, are (1) ‘to ensure an environment that supports the development of all RCM
staff to engage in enquiry leading to the creation of new knowledge’, and (2) ‘substantially raise the
RCM’s national and international research profile’. The principal approach to achieving (2) has been
a combination of new appointments in existing and new areas of research specialisms, and a focus
on fostering a wide range of individual and collaborative projects involving RCM staff, researchers
in other HEIs and public sector partners. These two strategic aims have fuelled a rapid increase in
research activity and dramatic growth in the value of external funding from the £467,000 reported at
the last REF to c.£3.7m in the period 2014–20. An RCM research office has been created to manage
all aspects of the research endeavour including funding, monitoring and impact (see Section 3).




                                                                                                        1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact and planning for the future

Performance Science

In the REF submission period 2008–13, the CPS was the RCM’s principal focus for funded and
collaborative research. Since its establishment in 2001 it has consolidated both an international
reputation and a close-knit team of specialists who often work together on major projects. Its main
institutional partner is ICL, and in 2017 a new joint RCM/ICL Centre for Performance Science was
created to magnify its scholarly and impact heft in comparative aspects of elite performance training
in music, medicine, business and sport, and to undertake large-scale studies of the impact of the
performing arts on public health.

Major new funded research in CPS during the submission period includes Musical Impact (AHRC
2014–18). This joint project, led by RCM, with all nine of the UK’s music and dance conservatoires
(CUK) in partnership with the Association of British Orchestras, Musicians’ Union, British Association
for Performing Arts Medicine (BAPAM), and International Health Humanities Network, is the largest
undertaking to date to investigate the physical and mental demands of making music, with the aim
of enhancing musicians’ health and wellbeing. The project’s impact includes the setting up in 2015
of Healthy Conservatoires, an international network that now includes over 50 conservatoires,
schools and universities around the world; and an AHRC follow-on award for Healthy Performer
(2019–20) to develop the impact of the research by promoting knowledge and good practice in the
performing arts, extending the original project beyond music to include dance, drama, physical
theatre and circus arts. Musical Impact became the catalyst for CPS’s next large-scale project,
HEartS: Health, Economic, and Social Impact of the Arts (AHRC 2018–20; UKRI COVID-19
Allocation, 2020–21). HEartS has a multi-disciplinary research team drawn from the RCM, ICL’s
Faculty of Medicine and Public Health, and its Business School, working together with the National
Health Services and Arts Councils of the UK’s four countries, and numerous industry partners, to
investigate the impact of arts and culture on the health and wellbeing of the general population, from
individual, social, and economic perspectives. With the support of funding from QR-GCRF and
Strategic Priority Fund, HEartS research and impact strategy has been extended to China, in
partnership with the Shanghai Conservatory, and to Canada, with McGill University.

During the submission period, CPS researchers have also conducted a range of other projects, most
in collaboration with healthcare providers and charities. In different ways they have investigated the
health and well-being impact of musical participation on:

   •   post-natal depression (Music and Motherhood, Arts Council England, 2015–17), which tested
       the effects of regular group singing on mothers with new babies
   •   the mental health of cancer patients (Sing with Us, Tenovus Cancer Care, 2016–18)
   •   Loneliness and Mental Health (UKRI Mental Health Network, 2018–22)
   •   live musical performance in maternity hospital settings (ProMiMic: Professional Excellence
       in Meaningful Music in Healthcare, Dutch Research Council, 2019–23), taking RCM student
       musicians into ICL maternity units and investigating the impact on mothers’ well-being
   •   facilitating bonding of families and babies affected by the ZIKA virus in Brazil (ZikMus, British
       Academy and GCRF, 2019–21).

Another area of the Centre’s work focusses on the application of psychology and technology to
analysing and enhancing musical performance and pedagogy. For example, CPS was the principal
musical partner in TELMI: Technology Enhanced Learning of Musical Instrument Performance (EU
Horizon 2020, 2016–19), developing a pedagogical framework that embraces both traditional
methods of violin instruction and research on how people gain expertise and learn skills efficiently
and effectively. It involved innovations in audio, video, and motion-capture systems developed by
the project partners at Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona and the University of Genoa. Its industry
partner, HighSkillz, is using its expertise in digital learning platforms and gamification to develop an


                                                                                                      2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

intuitive user-interface both to guide and motivate beginners and provide high-level feedback to
experts, while incorporating a social learning system that helps musicians learn from their peers.

Linking primary research to industrial impact through engineering is an important new development
and will be a key feature of future CPS research strategy. RCM is a partner in the ICL-led MedTech
Super Connector (Research England, 2018–21), an incubator for ECRs and graduate students to
translate and accelerate technical discoveries from academic labs into start-up companies,
proposing new solutions to contemporary health challenges. The RCM has so far secured four
fellowships under this scheme, and two fellows are already in the process of turning research
prototypes into viable business spinouts. ECR George Waddell developed a business model for
‘MasterStudio’, an app. that facilitates online group music tuition, arising out of his work on TELMI.
Ben Storey, Assistant Head of RCM Junior Programmes, is developing a device to help young
patients with severe respiratory problems to clear mucus and exercise lungs, whilst also measuring
expiratory lung pressures, flow and performance. The prototype will be trialled at Great Ormond
Street Hospital.

Musicology and Practice-based Research

The RCM’s traditional strengths in source studies and historical performance have been broadened
and strengthened since 2014 in three distinct, but related fields:

   •   cultural and material history
   •   practice-based performance research
   •   music education.

Historical musicology at RCM embraces a wide range of performance-led research topics from
c.1500 onwards, with a particular emphasis on the 19th and 20th centuries. It comprises the well-
developed research interests of six senior scholars: Professor Trevor Herbert’s work on the cultural
history of brass instruments and band culture; Professor Richard Langham-Smith's work on 19th-
century French music; David Wright, whose The Royal College of Music: A Social and Artistic History
(2019) epitomises the recent ‘coming of age’ of cultural-historical musicology at the RCM; Professor
Richard Wistreich’s co-edited Cambridge History of Sixteenth-Century Music (2019) similarly
develops a social model of early modern music historiography. Wistreich also co-led the research
network, Voices and Texts (AHRC, 2014–15), a multi-disciplinary investigation of the cultural history
of speaking and singing from 1500–1800, concluding with an international conference, edited essay
collection in the Huntington Library Quarterly (2019), and several journal articles and book chapters.
Professor Gabriele Rossi Rognoni has expanded traditional musical instrument studies (organology)
to develop a broader object-based approach to the material history of music, resulting in new
museum displays and exhibitions delivered nationally and internationally, and publications and
doctoral projects in collaboration with institutions in Europe, Asia and the USA. Finally, Professor
Colin Lawson’s continued research into the history of performance has resulted in the co-edited
Cambridge Encyclopedia of Historical Performance Practice (2018, winner of the IAML C. B. Oldman
Award 2019 for ‘an outstanding work of music reference’) to which 17 RCM research staff contributed
a total of 125 entries covering performance, organology, biography, music psychology and
institutional history, exemplifying how the varied specialisms of many RCM researchers coalesce
around the history and practice of musical performance.
In the current REF cycle, the RCM’s RS supported three of its mid-career musicology researchers
to gain international status for their work. Professor Natasha Loges, whose work on Johannes
Brahms since 2014 has produced the first comprehensive source study of Brahms and his Poets
and two co-edited volumes of essay collections about the composer and his world, as well as journal
articles and two further essay collections investigating the performance history of the German Lied,
one arising out of the international conference ‘German Song Onstage’, held at RCM in 2016, and
the other on Musical Salon Culture in the Long Nineteenth Century. Christina Guillaumier‘s
monograph on the operas of Sergei Prokofiev (2019), co-edited essay volume, Rethinking Prokofiev
(OUP, 2020), and a new biography of the composer (in progress) underpin her appointment as Editor

                                                                                                    3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

in Chief of the new Journal of Prokofiev Studies. Wiebke Thormählen’s work on music and emotions
in the long 18th century has resulted in several journal articles and book chapters exploring aspects
of musical practices, sensibility, and well-being. Her co-edited Routledge Companion to Music, Mind,
and Well-Being brings together historical and scientific perspectives resulting from an international
conference (2014) and includes chapters on neuroimmunology and on adult education by RCM
researchers in CPS and music education. Thormählen’s current research as Co-I for Music, Home
and Heritage (MHH, AHRC, 2017–21) in collaboration with the University of Southampton, examines
domestic music practices in Britain ca. 1750–1850, complementing Loges’ interests in European
salon culture and women’s music-making. MHH collaborates beyond academia with The National
Trust (NT), British Library, and Sydney Living Museums; outputs beside scholarly articles include an
exhibition; audio and video sound curation materials for the NT (including recordings by RCM
musicians); online databases of music books, musical instruments and other material objects in
domestic collections; and a co-edited volume on sound heritage curation in house museums that
stakes out a new theoretical field within museum studies (forthcoming 2021).

With Music, Migration and Mobility: The Legacy of Migrant Musicians from Nazi Europe in Britain
(MMM, AHRC, 2019–22), the RCM leads an interdisciplinary, international collaboration with the
Music and Migration Archive at the University of Salzburg and the Geography Department at Royal
Holloway, University of London. It builds on two pilot projects led by its PI, Norbert Meyn: Singing a
Song in a Foreign Land (EU Culture Fund; HLF: Rothschild Foundation, 2012–14), based on oral
histories of musicians who fled Nazi Europe and settled in the UK, contextualised in a series of
conferences and performance events and forming the nucleus of an online resource, already
accessed more than 80.000 times; and a detailed study of one refugee musician, the composer and
conductor Peter Gellhorn (AHRC Cultural Engagement Project, 2016). Combining practice-led and
archival methodologies to enable a holistic investigation of a complex area of cultural history, MMM
exemplifies research that is uniquely suited to the conservatoire environment. Planned outputs
beside eight journal articles include public workshops, performances and studio recordings involving
RCM students and professors of newly discovered and revived works; open-access editions of works
by émigré composers; two public exhibitions (at Glyndebourne and London’s Senate House Library);
web-based resources for musicians, schools and HE students, including interactive story-maps and
free-to-download music scores; and a three-day international conference.

The appointment of Rossi Rognoni as curator of the RCM Museum in 2014 has resulted in major
developments in research into the material culture of musical instruments and performance
practices, complementing the work of other historical performance musicologists, for example,
Herbert (19c. and 20c. brass instruments and their culture); Professor Ashley Solomon (Baroque
flute performance); Professor Terence Charlston (history and practice of keyboard instruments from
the 16c. to the 18c.); Lawson (history of the clarinet); and Wistreich (vocal performance, 16c. to
19c.). This will be further consolidated with the opening in 2021 of the Wolfson Research Centre in
Music and Material Culture, attached to the RCM’s new interactive music museum. The RCM leads
the consortium of museums which has created MINIM-UK (HEFCE [UKRI], 2015–17), a new digital
union catalogue of that allows the public to find out about c.20,000 individual historical instruments
held in more than 200 UK collections. The project included development of new online cataloguing
standards and techniques subsequently adapted to provide training and research expertise to the
Chinese Association of Music Museums (QR-GCRF, 2019–22), facilitating international access to
musical instruments in museums across China and through international online aggregators such as
Musical Instruments Online (MIMO).

Practice-based Research

Composition Much of the composition research at RCM focusses on iterative collaborative
processes between composers and performers, while several composers explore connections with
visual art. For example, Simon Holt’s Joy Beast (2016) explores the expressive potential of the
basset clarinet in the hands of a virtuoso performer (and composer), Mark Simpson, with a large
orchestra re-configured in reaction to the musical personality of the soloist, omitting violins and
employing off-stage winds placed within the body of the audience. It references in its broader

                                                                                                    4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

narrative, visual stimulus from a lithograph by the artist Cecil Collins. William Mival’s Rond was one
of several new works (others by Cole and Kitos) for the new three-manual, 34-stop Flentrop organ
commissioned by and installed at the RCM in 2017/18. A new instrument on this scale, manufactured
to a unique specification, has provided a rare opportunity to rethink and challenge pre-conceptions
about how composers and performers could work together in the making of new work for a
‘traditional’ instrument.

Performance While a substantial proportion of RCM research in historical musicology is
‘performance-informed’, inasmuch as most researchers are themselves performers, one group of
musicians is engaged in solidly practice-based research. They include Charlston, whose research
on the sources and performance practice of the clavichord and other early keyboards has produced
11 major CD recordings of 17th- and 18th-century music in the current cycle, including discs of music
by J. S. Bach, Marin Mersenne, and Jacob Froberger, several coupled with editions of sources
and/or journal articles. Solomon’s research into 17th- and 18th-century flute repertoire includes
investigations of the style-appropriate conditions for performing on surviving original flutes in the
British Royal Collection and the hitherto entirely unexplored holdings of a private collector in
Hamburg, that have not been played since the eras in which they were made. This hands-on
investigative work complements the pianist, Danny Driver’s research on 20c. performance practices
(for example, Ligeti’s piano music), and the record producer Stephen Johns’ practice-based
ethnographical research on acoustic studio recording.

Music Education The validation in 2017 of a new research master's programme in music education
brought new members of research-active staff to the RCM, with expertise spanning community music
(Jennie Henley, who left RCM in 2019, and Dave Camlin), early years music (Jessca Pitt), and other
research interests ranging from the development of children’s musical worlds to music education in
19th-century Ireland (Mary Stakelum). This new area links on one side with the various psychology-
based music-educational interests of researchers in CPS (Williamon, Perkins, Spiro, Clark and
Waddell) and on the other, with musicologists whose research includes the history of community and
institutional music education (Herbert, Lawson, Roper, Thormählen, Wistreich and Wright).

Funded projects led by these new education staff have included a Research Network (Excellence,
Inclusion and Intervention in Music, AHRC, 2017–19) in collaboration with York St John University,
led at RCM by Henley. It brought together an international group of scholars and practitioners
working in community music to develop new concepts of ‘excellence’ and ‘inclusivity’ in music
education in non-institutional settings. Camlin’s work as a practising musician and leader of
community choirs in the ‘natural singing’ movement underpins his research. Recent projects include
Fellowship of Hill and Wind and Sunshine, in collaboration with the University of York and the
National Trust (AHRC, ACE, 2018–19), which won the National Trust Outstanding Achievement
Award 2019 in their annual Culture Awards. Pitt, whose work centres on music in the development
of the under-fives, is investigating music education for young children with special educational needs
and disabilities, in partnership with Southampton City Council. Other projects in development include
establishment at RCM of a network of researchers and practitioners in the field of Early Years Music
Education, led by Pitt, with MERYC-England (Music Educators and Researchers of Young Children).
A meeting at RCM in July 2019 established the urgent need to share research and practitioner
expertise which can be directly used to inform and train education officers in public museums and
art galleries about how to work effectively with the under-fives. Music education will play an
increasingly important role in the next REF period, not least in the recruitment of doctoral students,
of which there are already five. Camlin recently secured an AHRC CDA studentship (2020–24) in
collaboration with the Natural Voice Network.

Impact

Every research project supported by the RCM is required to have a coherent impact strategy,
including active participation of potential beneficiaries in project design. The RCM maintains a
database of impact evidence, including press and media coverage, and funding is provided to
support the curation of short videos, hosting of web sites, and other impact resources. Prioritisation
                                                                                                    5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

of dissemination and impact of research includes the regular organisation of international
conferences and other events that bring communities of practitioners and scholars into close and
active contact, across all areas of RCM research interests. Since 2014, the RCM has hosted at least
one large conference most years; they include: ‘Singing, Wellbeing and Health’ (CPS, 2014) together
with the Institute for Public Health and the Sidney Hahn Centre; ‘Effects of Playing on Early and
Modern Musical Instruments’ (2015), supported by the EU Agency for Collaboration in Science and
Technology (COST) in collaboration with the International Committee of Museums and Collections
of Instruments and Music of the International Council of Museums (ICOM-CIMCIM), providing a joint
platform for conservators, instrument makers, performers and historians; ‘Listening to Music:
People, Practices and Experiences’, jointly organised with the Open University as part of the
collaborative project Listening Experience Database (AHRC, 2012–15); ‘Exile Estates, Archives, and
Music Restitution’ (2015), supported by the International Institute for Suppressed Music, which grew
out of the Singing a Song in a Foreign Land project and convened archivists, émigrés and holocaust
historians from the UK, Austria and Germany; ‘German Song on Stage’ (2016), a collaboration with
the German Historical Institute and Wigmore Hall, that included an experimental public
reconstruction of a 19c. Lieder concert. Audience responses were collated, leading to a collaborative
article by Loges (historical musicologist) and Terry Clark (CPS music psychologist) in the Journal of
Audience and Reception Studies (2019), with the conference proceedings later published by Indiana
UP. ‘Digital Resources for Musical Heritage’ (2018), organised as part of the MINIM-UK project (see
above), brought together researchers in digital humanities and museum curators. The RCM also ran
a series of study days centred on individual musicians, including ‘Carl Maria von Weber in London’,
a collaboration with the Weber Gesellschaft and German Historical Institute (2016); the composer
Edmund Rubbra, in collaboration with the Open University (2016); and ‘Hubert Parry: The Past,
Present and Future of Music History Pedagogy’ (2019) with the University of Southampton. Each
one featured research presentations with live music performed by RCM students and professors,
making vivid links between history and contemporary practice.

The International Symposium on Performance Science (ISPS), established in 2007 by Professor
Williamon, Head of CPS, is the leading forum for disseminating research in the field, attracting
upwards of 300 delegates to its biennial meetings, co-convened by the RCM and host institutions
around the globe. Meetings were held in Ryukoko University, Kyoto (2015), the Iceland Academy of
Arts, Reykjavik, (2017) and the University of Melbourne (2019); the 2021 meeting is scheduled to be
held at McGill University, Montreal. The RCM funds CPS staff, doctoral and master’s researchers to
attend and present their work, and each meeting results in the publication of full conference
proceedings, co-edited by Williamon. In 2021, the RCM will host two major conferences: the 12th
International Conference for Research in Music Education (RiME), which is the pre-eminent forum
for music education research in the English-speaking world; and the 60th International Conference
of ICOM-CIMCIM, which aggregates music museum representatives from 55 countries. A joint
conference for RCM composers in collaboration with the Association of Applied Mathematics is
planned for 2022.

Knowledge Exchange

In 2015 the RCM RC’s mandate was extended to include Knowledge Exchange (KE). An internal KE
funding competition awards c.£10K annually to support selected projects that are keyed into impact
capture. Wider sharing and dissemination of RCM research includes special events as part of the
College’s public performance programme, for example, concerts featuring new works by RCM
composers, and larger-scale events such as the three-day festival celebrating the work of Mark-
Anthony Turnage in January 2020. There is a fortnightly public seminar series, ‘Music and Ideas’
presented by internal and visiting researchers that attracts a large and diverse audience. RCM
research staff and students regularly mount projects at public engagement and data collection events
in London, for example, at the annual Imperial College Science Festival, the V&A public lectures and
exhibitions series, and pre-concert talks at venues including the Proms, Barbican, Southbank,
Wigmore Hall and King’s Place. Many RCM researchers are highly visible in the international press
and broadcast media.


                                                                                                   6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Future strategy for research and impact
The RCM’s RS2020–27 was developed and agreed before the COVID-19 pandemic. While we have
refocussed our plans in the light of the crisis, our principal goal remains: ‘establishing the RCM as
one of the world’s leading centres for interdisciplinary research in music by 2030’. To achieve this
ambitious long-term aim, the RCM has reiterated its fundamental commitment to maintaining
investment in both staff and infrastructure for producing world-class research. The College recently
completed a massive estate development, and a commensurate investment in digital infrastructure
(see Section 3), which will enable it to amplify and broadcast to both local live and international online
audiences. This, in turn, serves our increasing focus on research and knowledge exchange that
explores the practice and effects of musical participation on, and within communities of participants
beyond the confines of elite practice, extending from music-making with the under-fives (Pitt, Lisboa),
adult community choirs (Camlin) and online music learners (Guillaumier, Williamon, Clark, Waddell),
to patients and health-workers in care settings (Williamon, Perkins, Spiro, Lisboa, Waddell). The
RS2020–27 commits to expanding the institution’s traditional strengths in historical and source-
based performance research by establishing a new Centre for Music and Material Culture (CMMC),
around the new RCM Museum. By 2023 CMMC will include a newly established PhD studentship
and a post-doctoral fellowship.

Responses to Covid-19 The RCM responded to the pandemic at the start of lock-down by
suspending projects that could not progress due to the nature of their methodologies, furloughing
staff as appropriate, and restructuring or instigating no-cost extensions to others. Vulnerable staff
whose research was impeded due to contracting Covid-19, childcare or shielding, were supported
as necessary, with measures ranging from childcare cost support to reconfiguring timetables for
outputs dependent on public performances or publishers’ and recording companies’ revised
schedules. Funding from the UKRI COVID-19 Allocation awarded in July 2020 will be used to sustain
extensions to some projects, and to reconfigure live public performance elements of Music, Migration
and Mobility as webcasts and recordings.

Several research groups also instigated projects in direct response to Covid-19. The HEartS team
moved quickly to set up a pilot online survey to track the pandemic’s particular impact on professional
performers, and this led to a major new project, The Health, Economic and Social Impact of Covid-
19 on Professionals in the Arts (UKRI Covid-19 Research and Innovation open-call, 2020–22) to
investigate the longer-term effects of the pandemic on the UK’s artistic community in the coming
years. Covid-19 is also shaping the future direction of other aspects of RCM’s research, including
the health implications of the cessation of live arts activity on mental health in the general population,
particularly loneliness (HEartS team); Songs from Home will develop and trial technology-driven
online group song-writing sessions for new mothers in their homes to combat loneliness and social
isolation (Waddell and Perkins). Together with two of his doctoral students, Rossi Rognoni undertook
a project in collaboration with ICOM-CIMCIM, funded by the RCM’s QR-GCRF allocation, to
document the pandemic’s impact on music museums worldwide.

Meanwhile, the landscape in which all creative artists work has been dramatically changed by Covid-
19, and RCM practice-based researchers in composition and performance are having to adapt to
new conditions. Research by Tania Lisboa (CPS) over the past seven years in collaboration with
conservatoires and universities in the USA, Europe and Asia on the use of low-latency (LOLA) video
and audio systems (see Section 3) will be critical to designing and evaluating new tools for real-time
online collaborative music-making. Likewise, the learning and assessment of music performance
using online technologies will be investigated through new projects under development by Williamon,
Clark and Waddell, complemented by other work on the impact of the new environment on music-
performance education, such as the project Transforming Performance Pedagogies: Interactions
between New Technology and Traditional Methods (Society for Higher Education Research, 2020–
21) led by Guillaumier and the most recent RCM appointee, Diana Salazar.



                                                                                                        7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Section 2. People

Staffing Strategy

In REF 2014, the RCM submitted outputs of 23 staff, of whom just 11 remain in post in 2021, others
having either retired, left the institution, or ceased to be Category A. 22 new staff are included in the
2021 submission, which is a direct outcome of the RS 2014–2021. During the submission period
there have been new appointments or moves by teaching-only staff into Category A in all areas of
RCM research: historical musicology (new Category A staff: Guillaumier, Hewett, Kawabata, Meyn,
Roper, Rossi Rognoni, Wistreich and Wright join Langham-Smith, Lawson, Loges, and Thormählen);
composition (Cole, Kay, Kittos, Mival and Scarlato join Hesketh, Holt and Turnage); music
performance (Driver and Johns join Solomon and Charlston); performance science (Spiro, Clark and
Waddell join Lisboa, Perkins and Williamon); and music education, a new specialist area for the
RCM and, indeed, for UK conservatoires in general (Henley (now left), Camlin, Pitt, Stakelum). In
2017 the RCM established the honorary title of Reader, awarded for distinguished achievement in
any aspect of scholarly research; two appointments have so far been made: Loges (now Professor)
and Perkins. Between 2014 and 2020, awards of personal chairs (Professor) for outstanding,
internationally recognised achievement in research were made to six members of RCM staff
(Charlston, Herbert, Loges, Rossi Rognoni, Solomon, Wistreich). The institutional research staff
environment is stable (all Category A staff are on permanent contracts) and well-balanced in terms
of senior and younger scholars (currently nine Professors, one Reader, three Research Fellows in
Performance Science, fourteen mid-career staff (Lecturer or Senior Lecturer level), and six ECAs or
others new to research. There are also currently five Research Assistants who are not Category A.

Staff Development

The RCM has adopted the Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers (September
2019) and progress with fulfilling its principles is monitored annually by the RC. Category A staff
produce annual strategic research and impact plans reviewing achievements and goals, publication
and other dissemination of outputs, impact plans and associated activities, each keyed into the aims
of the RS. Regular research planning meetings with the DoR and annual appraisals by line managers
are used to ensure appropriate career development support, especially for ECAs and those relatively
new to scholarly research culture, such as composers and performers. Since 2014, all new staff
appointed to Category A contracts are required to have a doctoral qualification or equivalent, and
evidence of publications that are of at least of ‘international significance’ or be able to demonstrate
clear potential to achieve these goals. Staff who do not yet have a research qualification are
supported to undertake part-time RCM Master’s or doctoral study, including a new route for doctorate
by publication. Staff fees for RCM research degree programmes are subsidised through the
College’s Professional Development Fund.

All RCM staff have access to the Internal Research Fund to support costs of attending conferences
as a presenter; visiting archives and libraries; and expenses associated with publication of outputs,
such as image-use rights, music typesetting and indexing. Applications to the fund are evaluated by
the DoR and monitored by the RC. There is no fixed allowance for each researcher as needs vary
considerably. Additionally, researchers are invited annually to apply for funding for qualifying projects
or seed-funding for developing new research through QR-GCRF and the Strategic Priorities Fund.

Equality and Diversity

All staff appointments and applications for research degrees are subject to the RCM’s Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion policies (https://www.rcm.ac.uk/about/strategies-values/people-equality-
diversity/). Staff on appointments panels have undertaken unconscious bias training and panels are
gender balanced. However, the RCM lags some way behind achieving representative diversity of
gender, race and disability, especially in senior positions. The DoR currently leads an institution-
wide Diversity Action Group tasked with addressing unfair discrimination, including in appointments;

                                                                                                       8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

a specific requirement to promote diversity in all aspects of research strategy and project design was
added to the terms of reference of the RC in 2020. Regular meetings between the DoR and research
staff allow for close monitoring of each individual’s progress, and issues of equality and diversity,
including special or changing circumstances (for example, child or other caring responsibilities,
especially pertinent during Covid-19). These factors also underpinned the regular EIA monitoring by
the Head of HR of processes involved in selection of outputs for REF. Work-loading patterns vary
according to each staff member’s specific role in the RCM; however, basic research time allowance
is pro-rata equivalent of 35 days per year (c. 20%, excluding leave and statutory holidays); additional
time can be negotiated to accommodate intensive primary research and writing-up periods where
necessary. The RCM does not have the resources to fund regular sabbatical leave, but temporary
relief from teaching and administration duties during term time can be negotiated to focus on a
specific project; this includes external consultancy and knowledge exchange. Additional grant-
funded research time (e.g., PI/CoI fractions or mid-career fellowships) is supported by the College.

All research is subject to the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, which has been adopted
by the RCM. Research which requires ethical approval is scrutinised by the RCM Research Ethics
Committee, reporting annually to Senate. Externally funded research in which the RCM is the lead
RO, any project that involves collaboration with another UK conservatoire, or is particularly complex
or potentially controversial, is submitted for further scrutiny by the CUK Research Ethics Committee.

Research Students

The RCM currently has 43 registered full- and part-time doctoral students, pursuing projects that ally
closely with the research specialisms of staff. 47 students have graduated since 2013/14 and a
further 9 are expected to submit by the end of 2020/21. The doctoral programme is overseen by the
Research Degrees Committee (RDC); day-to-day oversight is maintained by the Head of
Postgraduate Programmes, supported by Registry staff. RDC approves offers to applicants;
monitors student progress, including appointing supervisory teams; it acts as the Board of Examiners
for the recommendation of degrees.

The RCM offers two institutional fees-only studentships and 50% match-funding for the first two
AHRC full studentships awarded each year (further DTP studentships are fully funded by AHRC); it
also provides bursary fees support to approximately 60% of students. In 2018, the RCM was part of
a successful bid for DTP funding by the London Arts and Humanities Partnership AHRC DTP
(LAHP), made up of UCL, KCL, LSE, QMUL, School of Advanced Studies, Royal College of Art,
Royal Central School of Speech and Drama, and the RCM. In its first year (2019), LAHP awarded
90 full AHRC studentships across 26 subject areas, including six in music. RCM applicants were
awarded three open studentships and one CDA, a collaboration between CPS and BAPAM; in the
2020 cycle, RCM was awarded two studentships in the open competition and a second CDA, joint-
supervised with the Natural Voice Network.

Our infrastructure for doctoral research meets or exceeds the requirements of all the UK Research
Councils’ and QAA standards. Students are supervised by a minimum of two: a directing supervisor
(DS), who must have supervised at least one doctoral candidate to completion, and a second
supervisor; if appropriate, one or more advisors are allocated to the team for specific expertise (e.g.,
for DMus students). Where the RCM does not have sufficient specialist expertise, a second
supervisor may be engaged from another institution, subject to the same monitoring as in-house
supervisors; however, the DS is always a member of RCM staff, and ensures the student is
supported through their programme, including regular meetings, preparing for transfer and
organising a mock viva before the final examination. Examination panels are appointed by the RDC:
one internal and one external for transfer examinations, and two external examiners for final
examinations. No member of any examination panel may have been a member of the candidate’s
supervisory team. A comprehensive one-year training programme is undertaken by all new students,
supplemented by annual one-day public engagement and supervision management training events
for the whole cohort and their supervisors, and other occasional public events such as composition
and performance showcases, organised by the students themselves. All RCM doctoral students can
                                                                                                      9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

participate in any training programme offered across LAHP, which includes a wide range of
languages at different levels, digital humanities and archival skills, public engagement, and career
development events. Each student has bi-annual meetings with the Head of Programme to monitor
progress and identify specific training needs. Students are allocated a basic allowance (currently
£250 p.a.) to subsidise participation in research conferences, travel to libraries and archives, and
similar; in specific cases (e.g., presentation at overseas conferences) additional support is provided.
Students can apply for graduate teaching opportunities on undergraduate and some postgraduate
modules each year. Through a rigorous training and mentoring programme, they gain invaluable HE-
teaching experience as well as application and interview practice.

Doctoral students have free access to all performance and recording facilities at the RCM (see
section 3). There is a dedicated doctoral researchers’ room equipped with hot-desking and access
to music-composition and other software. Doctoral students are allocated a personal web-profile
page on the RCM’s main site. The RS2021–27 includes provision of enhanced physical and digital
facilities for research students in the new estate, including larger dedicated workspaces.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Research income
Research at RCM is funded through a combination of institutional QR (including QR-GCRF and
Strategic Priorities Funding), and indirect costs in external research and knowledge exchange
grants. This contributes to the salary costs accounted for by c.20% pro-rata workload time for
Category A staff (and 20% FEC top-up for staff employed directly through research grants);
administrative staffing and overheads of the Research Office; supports the salary of the DoR; and
provides discretionary funds for incidental staff and doctoral student research costs, RCM-sponsored
conferences and the public lecture series.
Grant income from research councils, charities and other external funders during the submission
period was £3,577,000. The total value of grants awarded (RCM only, RCM as lead organisation,
and RCM as partner organisation) was over £4.6m, with £3.7m awarded specifically for RCM activity,
some of which extends beyond the submission period. RCM composers and performers receive fees
for specific commissions and performances that provide significant opportunities both for developing
research and disseminating its outputs, and for generating and tracking its impact on cultural and
economic beneficiaries. For example, all the research outputs underpinning Impact Case Study 3a
were developed in collaboration with music-commissioning bodies. The RCM receives QR-GCRF
finance (c. £24K in 2019/20). This supports research projects in ODA countries including Brazil,
Bolivia, and China, including seed-funding larger projects. The RCM’s GCRF three-year strategy
received Research England’s Special Commendation in 2018 in recognition of its clear strategic focus
and for how development-related research activity has been embedded within the institution’s wider
strategy and activities (https://re.ukri.org/funding/our-funds-overview/global-challenges-research-
fund/). It was particularly praised for demonstrating that small allocations of funds can be used
effectively by specialist institutions, and its focus on enhancing existing collaborations with
developing countries.
Infrastructure and facilities pertaining to research impact
Investment of c.£62m in new estate and digital infrastructure since 2014 has been largely focused
on new facilities which will enhance research in the future. Researchers benefit from full access to
the RCM’s performance venues, which include the 400-seat Amaryllis Fleming Concert Hall, 400-
seat Britten Theatre, and the brand new 150-seat Performance Hall, 90 seat Performance Studio
and smaller performance spaces in the new RCM Museum, plus two 50-seat seminar/performance
Parry Rooms. All these venues are fully equipped for audio and HD video recording and live-
streaming, with high-speed fibre and broadband wi-fi throughout the College.

                                                                                                    10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

RCM Studios is a commercial-grade facility, equipped with professional audio, video and
composition technologies, enabling live broadcast of performances around the world; it includes a
recording studio and editing suites. The studios support LOLA real-time simultaneous music
performance between similarly equipped venues in multiple international locations and is available
for collaborative composition and performance research. The RCM’s Performance Simulator is a
permanent laboratory space which allows physiological monitoring before, during and after live
performance in front of simulated audiences. Its technology is used not only to support the
enhancement of musicians’ training, but also to study performance anxiety and comparable high-
stress presentation such as facing news conferences or in business ‘pitching’.
The RCM Collections contain over 15,000 instruments (many playable), portraits, engravings and
sculptures, and other music-related objects spanning more than 500 years; internationally significant
music manuscripts including autograph scores; letters and other biographical materials; more than
750,000 concert programmes charting the history of live performance since the seventeenth century,
especially in London; and extensive collections of printed music, including unique items from the
sixteenth century onwards. Data about all the Museum holdings are also available through the open-
access digital catalogue (http://museumcollections.rcm.ac.uk), developed and maintained by the
RCM, linked into major international repositories such as Europeana, Google Arts & Culture, ArtUK,
MIMO and Cecilia. With its associated environmentally controlled Performance Studio and the
Wolfson Research Centre for Material Culture, the new Museum will provide an unprecedented
resource for future research into the history and contemporary manifestation of art-music
performance.
The RCM is a creative performance environment made up of many hundreds of elite-level musicians
and professional support staff including instrument technicians, lighting, audio and video engineers,
who participate in, support, and showcase its research. The RCM’s extensive artistic and events
programme regularly features public dissemination of research activities. Its central website, satellite
sites for specific projects, and its YouTube channel provide open access platforms for research
outputs and generating impact activity. Print, broadcast and other public communication about
research and other relevant news is managed by RCM Marketing and Communications; coverage
in national and international press and broadcasting, and across social media has increased
substantially since 2014.
The RCM established a Research Office (RO) in 2015 staffed by a Research and Knowledge
Exchange Manager, Research Finance Officer, and CPS Administrator. They manage all aspects of
research, including external funding bids and post-award grant administration; support dissemination
events including conferences; and provide administration for reporting exercises (REF, HE-BCI,
KEF, GCRF, etc.). All proposals for externally funded research projects begin with the logging of a
formal Expression of Interest and are subject to a monitored timetable during which the DoR and RO
staff advise on finding suitable funders, preparing texts and budgets, and coordination with
collaborating partner organisations, where relevant; all bids and grant acceptances are signed off by
the DoR before submission.
RCM Research Online, the College’s open-access research repository, was developed in 2015/16
with support funding from JISC. It currently contains data for all RCM staff research publications,
including journal and conference proceedings, books, scores, recordings, published reviews and
journalism by RCM staff, and completed doctoral dissertations. The RS2021–27 commits to creating
an open access repository for all RCM research data.




                                                                                                     11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Research Collaborations, networks and partnerships.
A high proportion of RCM’s research projects involve collaboration with one or more partners,
including academic and charitable research institutions; public sector organisations such as
performance venues and ensembles; healthcare providers, schools and community music settings;
libraries, archives, museums, galleries and historic buildings; Arts Councils and unions; and
commercial music industry enterprises, particularly recording companies, publishers and software
developers.
While most partnerships are created for specific projects, some have led to enduring relationships.
Principal among these is the joint RCM/ICL Centre for Performance Science (see section 1).
Particularly fruitful collaborations involve ICL’s Faculty of Medicine, based at St Mary’s, Charing
Cross, Hammersmith, and Chelsea and Westminster hospitals, which host a range of RCM research.
During the past ten years of his work on German-speaking émigré musicians, Norbert Meyn has
established close partnerships with Glyndebourne, Senate House Library, the Manx Museum, The
Migration Museum, The International Institute for Suppressed Music, ExilArte Vienna, Akademie der
Künste, Berlin and the Music and Migration Archive in Salzburg. The RCM’s links with the German
Historical and Austrian Cultural Institutes have benefited several projects and impact events
organised by Meyn, Loges and Thormählen, while regular collaborations with the Royal Collections
have been instrumental in Solomon’s historical performance research. Continuous involvement with
the international network of music museums has led to long-term collaborations with the Association
of Chinese Music Museums, and the Association of Russian Music Museums, as well as institutions
in France (Musée de la Musique), the USA (Yale University), and the UK (particularly The Horniman
Museum, London and the University of Edinburgh).
Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences

The users, beneficiaries and audiences for RCM research fall broadly into four categories:
   • academic and other specialists
   • music performers, teachers, and students
   • the wider musically engaged public
   • patients and staff in therapeutic settings

Sharing of research with scholarly users occurs mainly through academic publication and
presentations at conferences and seminars. Performers, students and teachers of music also benefit
from online resources hosted on the RCM’s website (https://www.rcm.ac.uk/research/), including
short videos, which now play a key role in the dissemination of the practical side of RCM research,
exemplified by the work of CPS in the field of performers’ health, especially in elite training situations;
open-access music scores and recordings of performances and filmed oral history interviews in
Meyn’s research on émigré musicians; and resources for use by both curators and the general public
in animating historic houses that are part of Thormählen’s work on Georgian domestic music-making.
Commercial recordings and broadcasts, as well as more informal online access to artistic research
through platforms such as YouTube, Spotify, Applemusic and Soundcloud provide important and
easily accessible supplements to the live performances of artistic and performance-led research
outputs. During the submission period, staff have been invited to give more than 30 headline keynote
addresses at international conferences, and over 30 major commissions were awarded to RCM
composers by chamber ensembles, orchestras, opera houses, and international festivals. For
example, Simon Holt was featured composer at the Aldeburgh Festival in 2018, while his work has
been the subject of a full-length volume of essays edited by David Charlton (Boydell, 2017).



                                                                                                        12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Application of research findings in pedagogical and clinical settings that benefit patients, care-staff,
music learners, amateur and professional musicians, and curators is further supported through
workshops and other training. For example, Rossi Rognoni’s MINIM-UK project
(https://minim.ac.uk/) provided custom-built software and training for museum curators, adding over
4.000 previously uncatalogued instruments in 25 collections large and small across the UK. With
support of QR-GCRF, Rossi Rognoni and a research assistant trained curators and cataloguers to
produce MIMO and MINIM compatible digital records of instruments at the Hunan Museum
Collection, China (2019). Solomon’s work in training young musicians and their teachers in Bolivia
in the skills to perform historical music has had far-reaching impact well beyond the preparation of
performances of large quantities of re-discovered Bolivian Baroque music, including in education,
and in cultural infrastructure (see Impact Case Study 3b). Perkins has trained clinical practitioners
on the uses of music participation to support the mental health of new mothers, developed from
research she conducted from 2016–18 (see Impact Case Study 3c).
Performers, students, and teachers use RCM musicology research outputs and data in the form of
books and articles, recordings, scores, and a variety of online resources. These range from critical
editions of major works, such as Langham-Smith’s revised urtext edition of the score and orchestral
material for Bizet’s Carmen (2018), which is the basis of most new international productions, to
performing editions of recovered manuscripts, never before published, such as the 16 chamber
works by Peter Gellhorn, available open access and free-to-download from the project website, and
Charlston’s critical editions of 16th- and 17th-century English keyboard manuscripts. RCM staff have
authored or edited music monographs, reference books and essay collections aimed at users
ranging from scholars, students, and performers, to the general musical public. They include a
variety of encyclopaedias and general histories, conference proceedings and themed essay
collections, single composer and single work studies, and numerous contributed chapters to a wide
range of ‘Companions’ in specialist fields, mainly produced by large university publishing houses
and aimed at both academic and general audiences. A yet broader group of beneficiaries of RCM
research is served through programme notes and pre-concert talks, CD inserts, and articles in trade
magazines and national newspapers that are regularly produced by performers, composers and
musicologists to support enjoyment of live and recorded performance of music. In the field of music
journalism, for example, Ivan Hewett publishes at least 200 articles and comment pieces a year as
music critic of the Daily Telegraph, as well as articles in Prospect Magazine, BBC Music Magazine
and elsewhere. He has also written and hosted four five-part series on aspects of music for BBC
Radio 4. Loges, Lawson and Mival are regular contributors to BBC Radio 3’s ‘Record Review’; and
several researchers give pre-performance talks at London’s main music performance venues, many
of them also broadcast, including at the BBC Proms.
RCM composers and performance researchers have, in many cases, long-standing commissioning
relationships with particular ensembles, venues, and recording companies, and this provides them
with opportunities to develop research into outputs that achieve often very wide impact, through
performances in national and international concert and opera venues, and festivals, broadcasts and
commercial record releases. For example, Mark-Anthony Turnage’s commissions by the Royal
Opera House, Covent Garden have continued in the present REF cycle with the ballet score,
Strapless (2016), and his opera for families, Coraline (2018); similarly, his relationship with Simon
Rattle has continued with Remembering: in memoriam Evan Scofield, commissioned to mark Rattle’s
departure from the Berlin Philharmonic and his arrival as Chief Conductor of the LSO (2017),
released on LSO Live the same year; Turnage’s double violin concerto for Vadim Repin and Daniel
Hope, Shadow Walker, toured four European countries in October 2017. His setting of Ukrainian
texts for soprano and orchestra, Testament, received first performances in 2018 conducted by Kirill
Karabits in Bournemouth and Weimar, and his song cycle Refugee, written for the tenor Allan
Clayton and the Britten Sinfonia was premiered in Bucharest in 2019. Most of his works are
broadcast and subsequently appear as commercial recordings (see Impact Case Study 4a). During
this submission cycle, Ashley Solomon has recorded three CDs as a soloist in research-based

                                                                                                     13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

projects and four further recordings of Baroque repertoire with his ensemble Florilegium for Channel
Classics, a company with which he has worked closely for 20 years. His regular appearances on
BBC radio and at venues such as the Wigmore Hall has created a large and loyal audience following.
Artistic researchers also engage with audiences and other beneficiaries such as young musicians
through associated educational programmes, talks, media interviews, summer schools, and
competition juries.
Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

RCM staff serve as Editors or on the editorial boards of numerous peer-reviewed journals, including
Frontiers in Psychology; Performance Science Research Studies in Music Education; Musicae
Scientiae; Approaches: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Music Therapy and Journal of Music Therapy;
Performance Practice Review; Music Education Research; Renaissance Studies; Early Music
History and the Historic Brass Society Journal. RCM researchers have guest-edited special issues
of Arts and Humanities in Higher Education Journal (Guillaumier, ‘The Conservatoire in the
21st Century’, 2020); Nineteenth Century Music Review (Herbert, ‘The Experience of Listening to
Music in the 19c.’, 2020); and the Huntington Library Review (Wistreich, ‘Voices and Texts 1500–
1800’, 2019). Staff also contribute to the research base through membership of advisory boards of
major institutions: Rossi Rognoni was President of CIMCIM (2014–19) and of the Italian Early Music
Association, member of the Scientific Board of the Museum of the Violin in Cremona, the Scientific
Committee of Fenton House (National Trust), and board of the Galpin Society; Wistreich was
successively Vice-Chair and currently Chair, Society for Renaissance Studies (2016–22) and is on
the Advisory Councils of the Warburg Institute and the V&A Research Institute; Williamon is a
Trustee of BAPAM and serves on the Executive Committee, Society for Education, Music and
Psychology Research (SEMPRE); Perkins is a member of the AHRC Peer Review College; Pitt was
successively Chair and now Trustee of Music Educators and Researchers of Young Children
(MERYC-UK, 2012–); Spiro is a member of the Music Therapy Charity Research Committee; Loges
was a Council Member, Royal Musical Association (2017–20); Thormählen serves on the Steering
Committee of MusicHE.

Research staff act as external examiners for research degrees and on research degree validation
panels at numerous universities and conservatoires in the UK and overseas. They also peer-review
for a wide range of journals and academic book publishers. RCM composers and performers served
on the juries of numerous international competitions. RCM researchers currently hold visiting
professorships at McGill University (Canada), Universidad do Minho (Portugal); University of
Washington, WA (USA); Université du Metz; China Conservatory; Universidade Federal da Bahia
(Brazil); Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts (Singapore).

Awards and prizes CPS was awarded the Arts and Health Award of the Royal Society of Public
Health, 2016; Trevor Herbert received the Anthony Baines Memorial Prize of the Galpin Society,
2014. Mark-AnthonyTurnage and Colin Lawson were made CBE for services to music in 2015 and
2016, respectively. Kenneth Hesketh won a 2017 BASCA Ivors Composer Award and Haris Kittos
won first prize in the International Composition Competition ‘Città di Udine’ (2016). Stephen Johns
won a Grammy for Best Classical Solo Album (2015) and his recording of Verdi’s Aida (2016) won
BBC Music Magazine Record of the Year, Gramophone Awards Opera Recording of the Year, and
a Diapason d’Or.




                                                                                                 14
