Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University
 Unit of Assessment: 7 – Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1A – Context & structure

 The restructuring of the Faculty of Science, at the end of 2019, enabled the formation of the School
 of Biological & Environmental Sciences (BES). BES emerged from a subset of staff formerly
 associated with the School of Natural Sciences & Psychology, some of whom were returned to
 Anthropology & Development Studies/Anthropology UoAs in previous REF/RAE submissions.
 Subsequent to the establishment of the new school, we appointed seven new staff, in order to
 reflect our developing academic landscape more accurately. As a result, we now have an almost
 complete overlap between our School’s awarded degrees and the current research interests and
 activities of our academic staff and aligned a strong and coherent research-informed profile to our
 programmes. The new structure provides the effective matrix for the integration of existing pockets
 of excellence into a newly-formed cluster including 61 Cat-A academics, two thirds of whom have
 been appointed within this REF cycle, focusing on challenges and solutions to fundamental
 problems facing our planet’s ecosystems, particularly those relating to human activities. Overall,
 our burgeoning, interdisciplinary academic cohort finds its natural placement within the
 Environmental Sciences, hence leading to our decision to submit our research profile under UoA7.
 Synergies within our research unit are facilitated by and articulated into four research groups of
 similar size, which serve as vital fora for nurturing new project ideas, but also remain dynamic and
 agile to cross-group and cross-university collaborative initiatives. The four research groups and
 associated leaderships are:
 Behavioural Ecology & Physiology (BEP – Leads: A. Reddon, S. Zajitschek): BEP members
 investigate functions, mechanisms and development of behavioural and physiological interactions
 between organisms and the environment, with particular focus on communication, cognition,
 phenotypic plasticity, epigenetics, neurophysiology, photosynthesis and adaptation to climate.
 Biodiversity & Conservation (BioCon – Leads: S. Mariani, S. Dalrymple, R. MacLeod). BioCon
 scientists explore biodiversity patterns across the globe, with emphasis on how they are shaped
 by anthropogenic change. A diverse range of novel biomonitoring approaches are employed to
 provide evidence-based solutions to vulnerable habitats and endangered species, and devise
 management plans for sustainable resource use.
 Evolutionary Anthropology & Palaeoecology (EAP – Leads: N. Koyama, A. Wilshaw): EAP
 researchers place emphasis on understanding the evolution of humanity in the context of past and
 present environments. Human variation is assessed at genotypic and phenotypic levels, and the
 role of humans as agents of ecosystem change is explored through the ages.
 Geography & Environmental Science (GES – Leads: C. Hunt, L. Edwards). GES members
 investigate past, present and future challenges facing people, by exploring the changing
 environmental and social worlds, and the processes and structures that shape them, employing a
 wide range of approaches, ranging from geochemical profiling and satellite imaging to economic
 valuation and qualitative social science techniques.
 Collectively, our strength lies in our key, common focus on managing a delicate ecosphere
 sustainably, while using a diverse and eclectic range of disciplinary approaches to achieve this
 shared goal. Environmental change affects all levels of biological organisation, in different ways
 across space and time, shaping the trajectory of our existence. The understanding and
 management of such a complex and dynamic system requires multiple perspectives,
 interdisciplinary integration, adaptability and perseverance. We possess the required blend of
 expertise and the appropriate collaborative culture for the sustained delivery of timely and world-
 class environmental research.

 1B – Research Strategy



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The current university-wide strategy for research and scholarship identifies three broad areas
 around which the LJMU research base can meet the challenges of the Anthropocene: Technology
 Innovation, Health & Well-being and Culture & Society. Our research unit represents the
 environmental dimension that underpins these themes. We employ a wide range of cutting-
 edge technologies, from latest-generation DNA sequencing to drones and satellite imaging, for
 assessing and monitoring biodiversity, investigating adaptations, and combating poaching and
 illegal wildlife trade. We blend archaeological and palaeoecological approaches with behavioural
 and socio-ecological analysis to understand how humans interact with their environments, and
 how they can become architects of a sustainable future. Our research strategy for 2021-2026
 period builds on these existing strengths and identifies the paths for their sustained success.
 Below we outline the key goals of our research strategy, followed by the thematic areas that will
 enable us to achieve them.
 Goals:
   Sustain excellent science through increased extra-mural funding – While our income
     generation in recent years shows a decisively increasing trend, our ambitions require greater
     and more consistent grant income from the UK Research Councils, EU Framework
     Programmes and major charities. It will be one of the key responsibilities of the research
     groupings to foster brainstorming and work with the Research and Innovation Services to
     identify the academics that are best placed to target specific calls. We will then complement
     our existing internal peer-review process with a short, directed, mini-sabbatical leave system
     to provide applying investigators with the time and focus to turn in high quality bids.
   Involvement in formal doctoral training schemes – PhD students are the life blood of
     research departments and, especially in the Environmental Sciences, their development and
     achievements are prerequisites for a sustainable and resilient future. Building on our recent
     success, spearheaded by our Doctoral Academy operations and career development pathways
     (see more in section 2), we will aim to secure participation in a thematic doctoral network that
     reflects our research mission. We will target the European Innovative Training Networks (ITN)
     and prepare for the next round of NERC Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTN).
   Attract and support early-career fellows – Our research profile can be substantially
     enhanced through the expansion of our postdoctoral population, especially by supporting
     independent fellows. We will attract and select suitable candidates for prestigious national
     schemes with UKRI and the Leverhulme Trust, as well as the Marie Skłodowska-Curie
     European and Global Individual Fellowships.
   Consolidate international partnerships and raise their profile – Our academics collectively
     engage with hundreds of international collaborators (see details in section 4), but these
     partnerships deserve greater visibility and could be further explored to deliver wider benefits,
     including securing research and outreach funds from trans-national bodies. We will work with
     the LJMU International Partnerships Office to produce Memoranda-of-Understanding with key
     international organisations where current and future projections indicate potential for stronger
     and broader participation.
 Themes:
  Innovative Environmental Monitoring – Our unit has played a key role in literally launching
     drones into the conservation arena. We have demonstrated the effectiveness of using remotely
     operated vehicles in monitoring endangered wildlife, combating poaching, and measuring
     and mapping landscape cover, in some of the world’s most emblematic forests. This line of
     work has created opportunities for collaboration with the Astrophysics Research Institute,
     rapidly advancing the field, and securing major UKRI funding (>£1M) over the REF period. It is
     expected that this field of studies will remain a major beacon for LJMU and that it will undergo
     further expansion into aquatic habitats and synergies with molecular approaches. At the same
     time, researchers at BES are leading advances in the burgeoning field of environmental DNA
     (eDNA), which avails of high-throughput sequencing techniques to reconstruct biodiversity
     patterns from the DNA fragments that all organisms shed in their surrounding environment.
     Marine biodiversity monitoring is a major focus of this theme, but studies also examine riverine
     and terrestrial communities. With two active NERC grants and several PhD projects, our unit is
     catalysing the transition of eDNA science from the method development stage to two main

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     directions: i) operational biomonitoring applications; ii) understanding ecological
     processes. The vast and expanding range of potential eDNA applications and the existing
     large and robust collaborative network in place will cement this research area as a key strength
     for the next REF cycle.
    Changing Environments & Communities – In line with LJMU’s commitment to address the
     global climate emergency – which also led to the introduction of the first undergraduate degree
     entirely focused on climate change studies – a significant investment of our research base goes
     into investigating key phenomena shaping major environmental changes in our biosphere, from
     large scale glacial processes, to carbon storage in peatlands and tropical forests,
     hydrological cycles, as well as the reconstruction of human and natural
     palaeoenvironments. In parallel, and interwoven with the more physical side of climate
     impacts, we have substantial capacity in the study of the human dimension of environmental
     change. We investigate how human communities, past and present, respond to and cause
     dramatic alterations of their environment; we assess the socio-economic consequences of
     resource degradation, flooding, desertification, pollution, over-exploitation and invasive
     species; we consider inequalities that determine disproportionate effects of climate change on
     different demographics; we also focus on comprehensive solutions, such as the blue economy
     and the natural capital approach, to illuminate the path to a sustainable future.
    Social & Reproductive Behaviour – Understanding how animals interact and communicate
     with each other has long been a core theme at LJMU, and will continue to play a fundamental
     role in expanding our knowledge of emotions, cognition, conflict, attraction, and the
     mechanisms that hard-wire animal decision-making. We carry out studies involving humans,
     other primates, birds and fish, in controlled experimental conditions, as well as in large field
     stations, and using modelling approaches. Our long-established collaborative networks in this
     field will support a steady flow of research outputs, which will continue to feed into conservation
     applications, deepen our understanding of the animal brain, and sustain research-led teaching
     in our popular programme in Animal Behaviour.
    Ecophysiology & Adaptation – We boast a remarkable portfolio of investigations that focus
     on how organisms adapt to their environments, at the morphological, physiological and
     genomic levels, using humans, mammals, insects, reptiles and plants as study systems.
     Research in this area includes studies of metabolism, sleep, seasonality, circadian rhythms,
     the genomic architecture of insecticide resistance, and the optimisation of photosynthesis
     efficiency, which all have major health and well-being implications. This research strand also
     embraces the analysis of evolutionary signatures on the geographical and environmental
     ranges of organisms, as a window through which the adaptive trajectories can be observed and
     modelled.
    Forensic Science – Several BES researchers apply biological knowledge to inform policy and
     legal disputes, using a wide range of forensic tools, which include morphological and chemical
     analysis of bones, the recovery of micro-organisms, diatoms, pollen, parasites from the
     environment, and the application of various DNA fingerprinting techniques. Such technologies
     are increasingly embraced by statutory governmental and international bodies, especially for
     the purpose of combating illegal wildlife trade, seafood fraud, carving an important niche for
     sustained applied projects with considerable societal impact.

 1C – Impact Strategy

 While constituting a new unit, our academics already exhibit a high degree of coherence in
 translating research findings into actions of significant societal benefits. Research projects in the
 fields of natural resource management and environmental protection have routinely benefitted
 from collaborations with governmental agencies and statutory bodies for environmental
 stewardship. Biodiversity conservation research has been regularly supported and endorsed by
 environmental NGOs and charitable trusts. Some technology-led studies have also involved
 private companies, and our expert knowledge has also served in an advisory capacity to national
 and regional governments. Public outreach, through media (and more recently social media)



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement, public seminars, festivals, exhibitions and writing for lay audiences has been a
 substantial commitment for most of our staff.
 The impact case studies (ICS – REF3 form) presented for this assessment exhibit continuity
 between some key ‘legacy’ features of our School (e.g. primatology, habitat conservation and
 restoration, threatened species) and the pathways that will define our future success (e.g.
 enhancing environmental monitoring, mitigating the impact of climate change, reconciling human
 well-being with nature conservation). The five examples range from high profile conservation
 initiatives to secure the survival of critically endangered species (i.e. Sumatran orang-utan,
 ICS1), to the contribution to widely applicable international protocols (IUCN reintroduction
 guidelines, ICS2), through protecting and restoring habitats that provide essential ecosystem
 services (i.e. carbon storage, ICS3; landscape remediation and water quality, ICS4), as well
 as jump-starting habitat and biodiversity monitoring through the use of drones (ICS5). The ICS
 supporting evidence gives a flavour of the current reach and future potential of our impacts, which
 are of interest to organisations including the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the
 International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the
 Endangered Species Trust, the US National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), the U.S.
 Forest Service, the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA), and Natural Resources
 Wales (NRW).
 Our approach to impact for the coming years will entail: i) nurturing the many existing partnerships,
 ii) further expansion into hitherto unexplored real-world applications, iii) close monitoring of the
 strands that promise to be most influential, and iv) cementing and intensifying stakeholder
 engagement throughout the impact journey. Actions will articulate along the following pathways:
  Governmental Agencies, International Panels – Environmental stewardship and monitoring
     will be a key feature of governmental and trans-governmental agendas for years to come.
     Agencies will require specialist advice, innovative solutions, and clear, robust operational
     protocols. Our research on land and water, across every habitat on Earth, will generate findings
     that will inform management actions and advice at national and international levels. For
     instance, DEFRA, the Environment Agency, Natural England, NRW, SEPA, ICES, the IUCN,
     the IPCC and UNESCO have all benefited from engagement with our staff, including D. Bourke,
     P. Byrne, S. Dalrymple, S. Evers, B. Fruth, S. Mariani, S. Wich.
  NGOs, Charities, Foundations – Civil society action has played, and will continue to play, a
     major role in triggering positive change on the Environment. NGOs have lobbied and advocated
     for urgent and emblematic causes, while several Foundations have financially supported
     important investigations that led to policy change. Many of our academics carry out research
     that generates the kind of robust evidence required to inform advocacy and push for
     environmentally-aware policy action. Some examples include Mariani’s involvement with the
     Pew Charitable Trusts Marine Programme, Fruth’s and Wich’s long-standing work with the
     WWF, as well as more local and regional engagements with the British Trust for Ornithology
     (R. MacLeod) and the National Trust (C. Bowe, D. Bourke).
  The Public – From our own evolutionary trajectory and the climatic changes that shape our
     living space and resources, through the discovery of biodiversity refuges and remarkable
     adaptations, all the way to the unveiling of revolutionary ways to look at our planet, our research
     endeavours represent a considerable source of imagination for the general public. With the fast
     progress and affordability of digital technology, we plan to boost our projects with explanatory
     videos and use social media platforms to disseminate our updates. With a new press team and
     several staff with extensive experience of media outreach and science communication, we will
     further invest in offering a view into our research to the broadest possible audience. Some
     recent ongoing projects that include a citizen science component, such as the ‘Spot the Spider
     Monkey’ British Science Week 2020 Zooniverse project (Wich), and the ‘DNA Divers ’ initiative
     that involves British divers in environmental DNA research (Mariani), can serve as beacons for
     illuminating this avenue.
  Industry/Private Sector – Besides instances of specific studies carried out in collaboration
     with industry partners (e.g. BASF, Rae; PEPSI, Webster), we engage with industry networks to
     contribute to sustainable solutions to modern production systems. Examples include Evers’
     advice to the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), multi-stakeholder actions to

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    improve European seafood trade (Mariani with SeaTraces), participation in consultations to
    devise the Greater Manchester Borough Council’s regional fuel poverty strategy (Simcock),
    and providing advice on placing the Natural Capital at the heart of the Liverpool City Region
    Combined Authority’s industrial strategy (Bowe). We expect to broaden our synergies with the
    industry sector in the years to come.
  Internal Support – LJMU provided nearly £30,000 to directly assist the academics tasked with
    developing our Impact Case Studies. Our Research and Innovation team earmarks staff time
    to liaise with academics and external stakeholders, in order to explore and develop
    partnerships. We will harness this institutional support in view of shaping and improving the
    multiple existing impact avenues that are being developed through our research activity.
 2. People

 2A – Staff

 Following the process specified in LJMU’s Code of Practice for REF2021, 89% of staff in BES
 have been designated as having significant responsibility for independent research, which include
 59.5 Cat-A FTE, quite evenly distributed among the four Research Groups. Of the 41 academics
 that joined BES during this REF cycle, half have been appointed within the last three years, and
 most are at an early career stage (27% of the total Cat-A FTE). This shows the clear institutional
 commitment to invest in this area and build a coherent research unit, with a blend of
 experienced and early career staff, tailored to our stated goals. Notable examples of early/mid-
 career staff that progressed to thriving senior positions during this REF cycle are proof that our
 environment breeds, recognises and rewards academic excellence (e.g. Piel and Wilding,
 promoted to Reader in 2019 and 2018 respectively; Byrne, Evers, Falkingham, Meloro and Rae,
 all promoted to Reader in 2020; Bishop, Hunt and Fruth, promoted to Professor between 2016
 and 2020)
 We shape our staff development and growth strategy around the VITAE Research Development
 Concordat, along the three pillars of Environment, Employment and Career Development, which
 helps making our working environment transparent, inclusive and dynamic to the transformations
 ongoing in the academic world.
 Environment and Culture – Every staff member is made aware of LJMU’s commitment to
 facilitate research success in a fair, balanced and transparent way. Institutional practices are made
 clear to all staff both through their line managers and, periodically, by Research & Innovation
 Services. Research performance is encouraged, rather than imposed, placing much emphasis on
 the mental health and wellbeing of our staff, reviewing and revising workloads and combating
 discriminatory and bullying practices. All staff across the seniority range receive compulsory
 training in relation to equality, diversity and inclusion, and research integrity. The research groups
 promote a collaborative culture whereby many staff co-produce outputs and offer peer-reviews of
 ideas and proposals. The group structure also provides the platform for regular consideration of
 institutional practices and bottom-up critique and proposals are then fed back to the Faculty
 Research & Knowledge Transfer Committee (FRKTC), where Research Leads have good
 representation.
 Employment – Our recruitment is transparent, merit-based and inclusive. There is an emphasis
 on positive action to attract under-represented groups, and a pronounced internationalisation, with
 11 of our 20 SRIR staff appointed since 2018 coming from nine countries outside the UK
 (Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Italy, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain and the USA). Newly
 appointed research staff are assigned a line manager who provides orientation and assistance
 during the induction, settling and probation period. A wide range of training and support modules
 are available to staff, and the benchmark for probation and periodic appraisal are carefully
 commensurate with career stage and take into account the nuances of each employee’s
 commitments, workload and personal circumstances. New staff automatically receive a research
 allocation (80 hours) topped by a ‘role development’ allocation (~40 hours) protected for 3 years,
 which together amount to 20-25% of their FTE.
 Professional and Career Development – We receive robust support from the career
 development initiatives run by the Research Innovation Services. These events include a

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stimulating array of workshops and modules running around the calendar year, focusing on honing
 key research skills, such as grant writing, paper writing, public outreach and social media
 strategies. In the year prior to this submission, BES staff attended 45 of these sessions. The
 ACTivator programme, which was awarded the 2019 Developing Excellent Practice Award at the
 UK Staff Development Forum, provides structured support especially for early-career researchers,
 assisting them to build their own independent research programme. The Knowledge Exchange &
 Commercialisation Team offers that crucial bridge between research and real-world
 operationalisation that is increasingly relevant to environmental scientists in the Anthropocene.
 This provides our academics with a broader and more dynamic perception of their own
 professional influence, expanding opportunities for translating environmental knowledge into
 practical applications.

 Equality, Diversity, Inclusion
 We are one of three UoAs belonging to the Faculty of Science, and as a newly formed entity we
 are committed to follow the path of other schools in obtaining the Athena Swan charter, a process
 that our working group had to temporarily suspend in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic, but
 which has now been re-initiated. We are well placed, with 34% of women among Cat-A staff, which
 goes up to 50% when considering the new appointments made since 2018. Among our staff, 7%
 have a declared disability, while 5% are non-white and 5% identify as LGBTQ; to improve our
 make-up, we embrace the many initiatives of our institutional Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI)
 Team: we are one of the three schools university-wide that have appointed an EDI coordinator
 (N. Koyama), who is leading, with our Academic Programme Leads, a thorough process of
 Curriculum Decolonisation. This action has now also been expanded and a new formative
 mandatory EDI module is being embedded in the training programme of all Post-Graduate
 Research (PGR) students, aimed at understanding in depth the long history of discrimination and
 marginalisation suffered by minoritized groups, and to identify concrete actions to transform
 environmental research into a truly inclusive endeavour. Our unit shows significant engagement
 in allyship and mentorship programmes, where staff and students belonging to traditionally
 disadvantaged groups are paired with staff from a privileged background, to facilitate reciprocal
 learning and understanding, with the ultimate goal of narrowing the achievement gaps and
 establishing a safe academic environment.

 2B – Research Students

 The University runs two internal schemes awarding PhD scholarships: the LJMU-VC Scholarships
 are specifically awarded based on excellence and potential to generate REF outputs and impact,
 while the Match-Funded Scholarships are supported when a supervisory team manages to secure
 partial investment from an external partner. BES members – who account for 7% of the
 University’s FTE – have been awarded 16% of the former and 25% of the latter, over this last
 REF cycle, hence demonstrating that our research portfolio is internally perceived as a core
 strength deserving investment, and that our academics are externally recognised as leading
 figures in their respective fields.
 Management – we currently have over 60 registered PGR students in BES, and 29 completions
 within the REF period. PhD progression and completion are now being boosted by a recent
 overhaul of the Doctoral Academy procedures. A new online platform, eDoc, provides a secure
 and auditable system for logging all events pertaining to the doctoral student’s journey, from the
 establishment of the full supervising panel and the ‘programme approval’ (in the initial three
 months), through the various meetings with, and feedback from, the supervisory team, all the way
 to the key milestones of the First Progress Review (6 months), the Confirmation meeting (between
 12-15 months), the Annual Reviews, the Pre-Submission Review (three months prior to
 submission), and the viva voce examination. Two PGR Tutors (C. Mettke-Hoffmann and P.
 Falkingham) are tasked with fostering and maintaining high quality research activity in our
 research student population, in line with University regulations. The PGR tutors guide and assist
 the students throughout their journey and represent them, alongside two PGR students, at Faculty
 Committee level.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Development – All our doctoral students benefit from a thorough Research Development
 Programme (RDP), which is aligned with the VITAE Researcher Development Framework and
 entails a remarkable range of workshops focused on many technical and transferable skills,
 running all year round for all cohorts. A more intensive ‘summer school’ is run by the Doctoral
 Academy every July, and final-stage students can avail of a residential ‘Thesis Boot Camp’ to
 assist during the last writing stages. We also promote and help develop the PGR culture and
 community through organisation of regular seminars and the Faculty Research Day. This practice
 allows identification of exceptional performance beyond what is expected from a PGR student, but
 also helps flagging and supporting students who are encountering more challenges, triggering a
 set of action points to help the student get back on course and work towards completion in time.
 Achievement – We provide PGR students with an engaging and rewarding research environment,
 as shown by the many opportunities they have to expand their knowledge, grow in confidence,
 and obtain major success in terms of awards, prizes and high-impact publications. Some
 examples include: i) Kasim Rafiq, who secured several external grants for his studies on the role
 of tourism in monitoring wildlife in protected areas, went on to publish a returned output in Current
 Biology and wrote a Conversation piece; ii) Chris Brodie, who collaborates with CEFAS to explore
 the effectiveness of environmental DNA in monitoring pelagic fish stocks, contributed to the BBC
 Radio 4 Costing The Earth – the eDNA Revolution programme; iii) Patrizia Onnis won the best
 presentation prize (€1500) at the International Mine Water Association (IMWA) conference in
 Pretoria, RSA, 2018.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3A – Infrastructure & Facilities

 We are institutionally backed with a range of research support initiatives that enable us to carry
 out research to the highest standard. The LJMU Code of Practice for Research is designed to map
 against REF criteria and international standards. We follow a robust ethics approval process, and
 a shared, auditable platform for risk assessments (which have been swiftly revised and expanded
 during the covid-19 pandemic to allow the return of laboratory activity with contained disruption).
 We are steadily progressing towards an open research environment, using the Symplectic
 platform for the management of scholarly activity, which allows regular, semi-automatic uploading
 of outputs and associated data and meta-data, and encourages open access (OA) compliance
 (which is very high for our unit, with over 85% of total outputs deposited). Our Library has secured
 OA deals with major publishers in the Life & Environmental Sciences (e.g. Wiley, Springer, PLoS),
 and the Research Support team regularly runs clinics and workshops on grant writing, impact and
 innovation. On the backdrop of this organisational fabric, our academics have access to a wide
 range of high-end research facilities.
 The University has invested approximately £10M, since 2015, to refurbish biology and
 environmental science labs between the James Parsons and Life Sciences buildings (Fig. 1) and
 purchase new key equipment to match the profiles and aspirations of the four research groups.
 These facilities are managed by six Senior Research Officers and seven Technicians and, in line
 with the University’s climate emergency commitment and ambitious carbon targets, use electric
 supplies from renewable sources.
 The infrastructure that underpins our research can be subdivided into the following components:
 a) Life Sciences Laboratories: Over three completely renovated floors, we host 12 laboratories
    dedicated to the disciplines of biochemistry, genomics, microbiology, microscopy and
    molecular biology. We have several High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC)
    instruments, Quadrupole Time-of-Flight (Q-ToF) Mass Spectrometers, and two Scanning
    Electron Microscopes (SEM) complete with X-ray back-scattering detector systems. We have
    self-contained separate DNA isolation rooms for both ancient and environmental DNA, multiple
    thermocyclers, RT-qPCR, Tapestation, Genome Analyzer, Illumina and Nanopore sequencing
    workstations. We also have ample -80°C biobanking facilities and portable freezing and liquid
    nitrogen preservation units for field sampling. This state-of-the-art equipment was instrumental
    for our staff to produce multiple remarkable ancient DNA studies in journals such as Nature,

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Current Biology, PNAS, eLife, and secure prestigious new grants, such as the NERC-funded
    project ‘SpongeDNA’.




   Fig. 1: The new Life Sciences Building (left), an Illumina sequencer (centre), a SEM suite (right).
 b) This text has been redacted
 c) Drone Lab: Wildlife and landscape monitoring at LJMU is powerfully supported by a world-
    class drone lab, featuring six drone flight simulators, several workbenches for building and
    customising drones, aided by design software, cutting machine and 3D printers. The University
    also has a closed netted area on campus and a private flying field adjacent to one of the city’s
    largest parks for testing flights and training of staff and research students. Drone activity
    enhances conservation projects primarily focusing on: i) estimating distribution and abundance
    of vulnerable species, ii) mapping land cover and changes therein, iii) anti-poaching
    surveillance. Such capacity places LJMU in the top echelon of drone-based conservation
    research nationally and globally, and most recently led to securing over £1M STFC funding for
    monitoring terrestrial megafauna and peat fires. Recent synergies are now also exploring the
    role of drones as remote samplers for environmental DNA.
 d) Environmental Sciences Laboratories: A broad range of environmental and anthropological
    research takes place in several wet and dry labs, which include: i) two positive pressure
    laboratories for wet chemistry, palynology and solvent extraction for GCMS, ii) a facility with
    laser particle sizer, carbon and nitrogen analysers, furnaces, p-XRF, iii) equipment for
    atmospheric gas sampling including ultra-portable greenhouse gas analyser (CO2 and CH4),
    ground-penetrating radar, automatic water samplers and soil micromorphology, iv) ample
    microscopy suites with transmitted light, reflected light, polarising, and UV-fluorescence, all
    equipped with image capture. We also house a vast GIS lab, a specialist laboratory for handling
    human remains and animal bones, as well as four CONVIRON Genesis plant growth chambers.
 a) External Field Sites & National Capability Access: Our research teams benefit from an
    extensive network of collaborations that offer unparalleled access to field sites for: i) tropical
    endangered species research (e.g. Brazil, Costa Rica, Congo, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, South
    Africa, Indonesia, Malaysia), ii) palaeoanthropology and palaeoecology (Mexico, Spain, Sudan,
    Egypt, Iraq, Malta), iii) island ecology (Caribbean, Azores, Canaries, Balearic, Ionian,
    Mascarene). Through our collaborators, we also have access to marine surveys run by CEFAS,
    the British Antarctic Survey (BAS), Marine Scotland, the Icelandic Marine Research Institute,
    Fisheries & Oceans Canada (DFO), and the South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity
    (SAIAB).

 3B – Income Profile

 We attracted nearly £4M of extra-mural research grant funding during the last REF interval, of
 which around half came from traditional UK Councils and EU frameworks, and the other half being
 distributed among a variety of charities, local, regional and national governments, and industry.
 As a new unit, built around a majority of recently appointed academics, we aim to expand and
 consolidate our influence as a significant national force in the Environmental Sciences. Some key
 achievements demonstrate that we are in a strong position to significantly improve our income
 performance in the 2021-2027 period:


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  We have recently secured several UK Research Council grants, as both Principal
   Investigators and Co-Investigators; these include five NERC (Mariani, Byrne, Bowe) and two
   STFC (Wich) projects, three of which will complete between 2023 and 2024. The appointment
   of ‘rising stars’ early-career researchers in the last few years means that we will stand good
   chances to attract more funding under ‘new investigator’ schemes.
  We have been successful at attracting Leverhulme Trust Fellowships at both senior (Brown,
   island phylogeography, 2014-2015; Edwards, glacier remote sensing, 2019-2020) and early-
   career stage (van Asperen, forest palaeoecology, 2013-2016; Nichols, social behaviour, 2018-
   2020), and we currently have an application pending. Several staff have also consistently
   attracted smaller pots of pump-priming grants from prestigious charities and learned
   societies (e.g. The Royal Society, The Royal Irish Academy, The Wellcome Trust, The
   National Geographic, The British Council, The British Ecological Society, The Physiological
   Society, The Royal Horticultural Society). Such avenues will continue to be a key target in the
   years ahead.
  We have obtained funding from various EU schemes, including EU H2020, COST actions,
   and EU Regional Development Funds. The outlook over the next REF cycle is comforting,
   given the permanence of the UK in most European funding frameworks; this will give us the
   opportunity to leverage on our vast collaborative network in order to secure important EU
   awards, including supporting staff that are in a promising position to submit bids for the ERC
   Starting/Consolidator/Advanced grants.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4A – Research Network & Contributions




     Fig. 2: Global map of country affiliations for LJMU UoA7 collaborative papers since 2014.

 One of the greatest strengths of our unit is the diverse range and global reach of our research
 partnerships. These include universities and research institutions in at least 115 countries across
 all continents, as exemplified by our map of academic collaborations (Fig. 2), based on 857
 international outputs generated by our UoA7 staff during this REF period.
 This impressive reach gathers particular importance in the context of our mission to meet the
 challenges to our planet’s ecosystems. The study and the tackling of deforestation, habitat
 degradation, overfishing, poaching, biodiversity loss, invasive species, climate change impacts,
 etc. are global endeavours, which typically require transnational engagement and scalable,
 transferrable solutions; it is therefore apt that our research outputs reflect widespread participation

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in regions and habitats all across the globe. It is also noteworthy that our publications are co-
 authored not just with colleagues in the traditional research-intensive strongholds in Europe, North
 America and Australia, but also with a wide range of scientists and practitioners in many
 developing countries, which are often faced by some of the greatest ecological emergencies and
 have long suffered from traditionally unfair practices in academic research, especially in terms of
 formal recognition in scientific outputs.
 During the REF2021 interval, academics in our unit have published a substantial number of papers
 in highest-profile journals, such as Nature, Science, Nature Communications, Science
 Advances, Current Biology, PNAS, as well as consistently publishing in top discipline-specific
 outlets. This continues to help consolidate our global collaborations and is testimony to our
 contribution to scientific advancement in the Environmental Sciences. Our citation profile
 particularly demonstrates how our research outputs are influencing the global scholarly
 community. According to the latest 2020 THE World’s University Ranking, LJMU sits 30th and 34th
 in the UK, for citations, respectively in Geography and Biology (ranking 1st and 2nd in the country
 among the ‘young’ universities).
 The strength and breadth of our international partnerships present a number of further major
 advantages. First, having established fruitful collaborative links with research stations and survey
 platforms for many years offers unrivalled opportunities for long-term research programmes.
 These programmes are made possible through robust agreements that include:
    Field sites in Indonesia (A. Engelhardt, S. Evers, S. Mariani, S. Wich), Malaysia (S. Evers, S.
      Wich), Brazil (L. Figuereido-Passos, S. Mariani), Costa Rica (F. Aureli), Congo (B. Fruth),
      Egypt (J. Irish), Iraq, Malta (C. Hunt), Spain (M. Mulero-Pazmany), Tanzania (A. Piel),
      Zimbabwe (L.Traill), Madagascar (S. Wich), and island systems in the Caribbean, South
      Atlantic, and Western Indian Ocean (S. Mariani), among others. Some of these have
      underpinned high-profile discoveries on great apes (Fruth, Piel, Wich) and Neanderthals
      (Girdland-Flink, Hunt, Irish), others are pioneering DNA-based monitoring of shark
      populations (Mariani).
    Multi-annual surveys and development programmes run by leading organisations, such as
      the British Antarctic Survey (BAS – Edwards, Kiriakoulakis, Mariani), the National
      Oceanographic Centre (NOC – Edwards), the US Geological Survey (Byrne), The
      International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES – Mariani, Webster), the World
      Wildlife Fund (WWF – Fruth, Wich), the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN
      – Dalrymple, Fruth, Wich, Wronski).
    Access to world-class collections and facilities include the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
      (Martiniano, Wilding), the Max Planck Institute (Buck, Fruth), the Natural History Museum
      London (Buck, Irish, Mariani, Martiniano), and the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine
      (Weedall, Wilding).
 Another substantial enabling feature of our collaborative network is the provision of exceptional
 opportunities for cultural enrichment, portfolio expansion and scientific growth for both staff and
 PGR students. Thanks to their reputation in the field, our academics have secured engagement
 with various leading research teams, nationally and internationally, which resulted in high-profile
 co-authored outputs, even when the main funding is located in partnering organisations at home
 or overseas. This long-term synergistic approach has, on several occasions, promoted the
 formation of consortia that resulted in bids for substantial funding schemes. Highlights include: i)
 partnership with the Anopheles gambiae 1000 genomes project (Ag1000G) run through the
 Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute (Wilding), ii) the Deep Connections project funded by the
 National Research Foundation of South Africa to map coelacanth habitats using environmental
 DNA (Mariani), iii) a co-investigator role on an NSF-funded grant at Brown University on dinosaur
 tracks (Falkingham), iv) a collaboration on the Fragsus ERC award on the ‘rise and fall’ of ancient
 island civilisations, with Belfast, Cambridge and Malta (Hunt).
 For PhD students and early-career researchers, the existence of several long-term collaborations
 provide an ideal platform for fieldwork experiences, tackling major environmental challenges, and
 contributing to global awareness of the causes that motivate their research endeavours. The
 collaborative spirit of our unit is embedded in the career journey of most of our PGR students,
 whose projects entail at least a component of their studies to be carried out in association with


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external partners, and in most cases involving input from non-academic stakeholders, in view of
 maximising the real-world impact of the research.

 4B – From Academic to Socio-economic Impact

 Our standing in the academic community is corroborated by significant involvement in the editorial
 boards of respected international journals including the Journal of Animal Ecology (Bielby),
 Behaviour (Reddon), the Journal of Zoology (Bielby and Reddon), Ecological Solutions &
 Evidence (Dalrymple), the Journal of Soils and Sediments (Byrne), the Journal of Archaeological
 Science and JAS Reports (Hunt), Frontiers in Comparative Psychology (Swaney), the American
 Journal of Physical Anthropology (Irish), Reviews in Fish Biology & Fisheries and Frontiers in
 Conservation Science (Mariani), the Journal of Unmanned Vehicle Systems (Wich), the
 Herpetological Journal (Brown), and the widely distributed Scientific Reports (Nowack) and PLoS
 One (Meloro).
 Active engagement with learned societies is reflected in fellowships of the Linnean Society
 (Wilding), the Geological Society (Hunt), the Royal Entomological Society (Gunn and Williams),
 and the Royal Anthropological Institute (Roberts), and in key position in advisory boards
 (Dalrymple) and review college (Bielby) of the British Ecological Society.
 Importantly, the staff in our unit are committed to escalate tangible real-world impact outside
 the realm of academia, as shown through their various engagements with international panels
 and policy organisations. Conservation action is reflected in membership of IUCN executive
 committees, commissions and specialist groups (Dalrymple, Fruth, Wich, Wronski), advisory
 capacity to UN Environment Programmes (Evers, Wich), the International Council for the
 Exploration of the Sea (Mariani), the South Asian Institute for Advanced Research and
 Development (Gagnon), the Kruger and Hwange African Wildlife Parks (Traill), and the regular
 stakeholder engagement with statutory bodies for nature conservation in the UK (Byrne, Mariani).
 The following three main areas summarise the main remits of our impact activity, which we expect
 to expand and develop as detailed in section 1 of this document:
  Conservation Policy – Biodiversity loss and natural habitat destruction imperils ecosystem
   services and our own existence. Evidence-based solutions are therefore essential to avert the
   biodiversity crisis and must be enshrined in local, national and international regulations. We
   engage with governmental, non-governmental and transnational organisations in order to
   translate our findings into tools that can support improved management actions and legislation.
   Some of the areas where we exert influence include: i) protecting refuge habitats for iconic
   endangered species, along the lines of the recent high-profile struggle to safeguard the future
   of Sumatra’s orang-utan; ii) advising on best practice for species introductions and population
   management (e.g. Dalrymple, Figuereido-Passos, Traill, Wronski) and iii) combating illegal
   wildlife and seafood trade through the integration of technological and socio-ecological
   approaches (e.g. Mariani).
  Environmental Stewardship – A sustainable future requires major behavioural shifts in human
   societies; as environmental scientists, we can play a key role through stakeholder engagement
   and by finding the appropriate register to assist decision-makers in choosing the bold
   management decisions required to secure a healthy and resilient planet.
       Climate change will stand as the biggest challenge in the forthcoming years: our unit
   produces positive impact in this area, from advising on sustainable, innovative practices for
   agricultural, forestry and fisheries resources (Bowe, Evers, Bourke, Mariani, Symonds,
   Webster, Williams), to devising mitigating strategies for the disproportionate damage that
   climate can have on disadvantaged groups, such as ethnic minorities, the disabled and the
   poor (Kosanic, Germond-Duret, Simcock).
       Environmental monitoring is at the core of our ability to measure and respond to changes in
   the biosphere. Our research groups have devised a vast array of innovative monitoring
   techniques, from chemical and plastic pollution (e.g. Byrne, Kiriakoulakis) and organismal
   hormonal responses (Engelhardt, Nowack), to environmental DNA approaches (Mariani,
   Galvez-Bravo), camera traps (MacLeod, Piel) drone technologies (Mulero-Pazmany, Wich), and



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   remote sensing (Edwards, Gagnon), all of which are currently at different stages of
   technological readiness for operational, applied settings.
  Public Engagement – Our unit has been and will continue to be very active in connecting with
   the broadest possible audiences. We have an astonishing track-record in public outreach,
   which spans from local schools and trusts, to museums, science festivals, global news outlets
   and TV documentaries. We curated exhibitions on human evolution in our own city’s World
   Museum (Irish); we contributed to major international documentaries, with topics ranging from
   primate conservation (Wich) and seafood fraud (Mariani) for the BBC, to renowned extreme
   fishing adventures (Mariani) for Discovery. Our primary research is regularly covered by national
   and international press and other media, and is frequently translated into lay articles on The
   Conversation (a dozen of our academics have authored multiple pieces) and learned society
   magazines.
       Making scientific breakthroughs accessible to the general public is fundamental to gain trust
   and show that science can improve everyone’s life. This is particularly important in the
   Environmental Sciences, where science communication has the power to strengthen the
   connectedness between Nature and human societies. Further progress will continue to be
   made as advances in digital technologies allow generation and distribution of progressively
   more nimble and effective outreach products. In the future, we expect that these efforts will
   typically stretch beyond serving as dissemination tools, increasingly forming core aspects of
   the research process itself.




                                                                                            Page 12
