Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: De Montfort University
Unit of assessment: 4
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
This is a debut submission for DMU in UOA 4 but some staff in psychology have previously been
submitted to REF 2014 and RAE 2008 within other units of assessment, notably UOA 3 (Allied
Health Sciences) and UOA 22 (Social Work and Social Policy now UOA 20). The current
submission is focused mainly in the Institute for Psychological Science (IPS), with primary
affiliation in the Division of Psychology, which is part of the School of Applied Social Sciences
(SASS) in the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences. It is one of seven research institutes and
centres hosted in the Faculty. All staff in the Division of Psychology are affiliated with the IPS.
Three staff in the Division of Psychology are also affiliated with the Centre for Reproduction
Research and the Mary Seacole Research Centre, also based in the Faculty. We have extensive
collaborative ties with both centres, as well as with other UOAs within the Faculty. Additionally,
staff from the schools of Applied Social Sciences (Younie, Yates) and Pharmacy (Laird) within
the Faculty have contributed to our impact case studies.
Research in the IPS is managed by the IPS Research Committee, responsible for evolving the
IPS research strategy and monitoring its performance, ensuring that the strategic plan is
implemented effectively. The committee is chaired by the director (Elqayam) and supported by
the deputy director (Baker-Kukona). Membership includes cluster coordinators (Coulthard,
Baker-Kukona, Svirydzenka, Scase); readers / associate professors (APs); an Early Career
Researcher (ECR) AWilson; PhD representatives; PhD students’ tutor (Goodman); impact and
knowledge transfer lead (Short); with the Head of School (Lyttle) in an ex officio role.
Coherence between the IPS and the Division or School is achieved through the IPS Research
Committee (of which the Head of School, Lyttle, is ex officio member), and through membership
of the IPS Director (Elqayam) on the School Executive Committee. Psychology staff (Elqayam)
also sit on the SASS Research Planning Group, the Faculty’s Research and Innovation
Committee (FRIC), the University Research and Innovation Committee (URIC) and Faculty
Research Ethics Committee (FREC) (Mitchell).
The Division of Psychology and the IPS have grown in scope since 2014. The Division of
Psychology currently numbers some 65 staff. We have a large component of ECRs, with 28 staff
currently identified as such, of whom six are holders of Vice-Chancellor 2020 lectureships with a
protected research time allowance (see REF5a). Our current submission includes 43 staff, most
of whom are based in the Division of Psychology (with one based in Business and Law), who hold
a Research and Innovation Allowance (RIA) which ringfences time for research. Of the staff in the
Division of Psychology, 64.6% are research-active, and are being returned in this submission. Of
the staff submitted, one is a professor, one is a reader, four are APs, and the rest are lecturers or
senior lecturers. Our submission to UOA 4 from this group has adopted an inclusive approach to
maintain our culture of collegiality and mutual support. Our submission includes outputs utilising
qualitative methods and interdisciplinary research. This is also in line with calls from the British
Psychological Society, Experimental Psychology Society and Psychology Heads of Department to
stop and reverse the disciplinary fragmentation process typical of previous REF and RAE cycles.
Research in the Unit is organised in four clusters. Each member of staff is typically affiliated with
one or two research clusters. The clusters provide the organisational structure and support
mechanisms required to deliver research in prioritised areas of strength. Their function is
developmental, and they organise activities to facilitate collaborative research, including regular
seminars, research ‘speed-dating’, mentoring, and facilitation of international collaborations.
Cluster leads report to the IPS director and sit on the IPS Research Committee.
Names of staff being returned in this Unit, whether as Category A or B staff, are highlighted in
bold.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.1.1 Cognition and Neuroscience
With 29 members and led by Baker-Kukona, this cluster focuses on computational, processing
and neurological mechanisms underlying a wide range of human cognition, from visual
perception, through emotion, to higher mental processing. The cluster has particular research
strengths in higher mental processing, culture and cognition; visual perception; and emotion.
1.1.2 Health Psychology
With 23 members and led by Coulthard, this cluster has interests in a broad range of areas, from
preventative health to chronic health conditions, as well as psychological factors relating to health
settings and the professionals who work within them.
1.1.3 Social, Cultural, and Personality Psychology
With 15 members and led by Svirydzenka, this cluster focuses on three key themes: group
processes and intergroup dynamics (norms and values, emotion, identity, stereotyping and
prejudice); role of context in human behaviour, cognition, and emotion (culture, environment); and
sociocultural influence on mental health and well-being outcomes.
1.1.4 Psychology and Technology
With 10 members and led by Short, this cluster embraces all aspects of psychological research
on how people interact with technology. The research spans work on assistive technology to help
individuals with sensory impairments to the use of technology to enhance the health and well-
being of individuals and also to promote behaviour change.

1.2 RESEARCH STRATEGY AND DEVELOPMENT
Our current submission capitalises on the substantial growth in research quantity and quality
since 2014. Research output, research funding and research impact have undergone a major
overhaul, supported by a research-informed strategy for recruiting new staff, and an extensive
support and mentoring scheme, both in-house in psychology, and with University-wide support
from schemes such as the VC2020 Lectureships and the RIA which is in addition to a base 10%
scholarship allocation for all academic staff for teaching or research development activity. The
VC2020 scheme (REF5a) has enabled ECRs to have designated time (two days per week) in
their first year to develop their research career; they have also had the opportunity to bid for up to
£5,000 for research funding (2.2).
Since 2014, the Unit’s strategy has focused on capacity-building (1.2.1) with the key aims of
creating a sustainable research culture by fostering development and achievements of ECRs
(1.2.2) and increasing societal engagement with research (1.2.3) to generate impact from the
commencement of each project. As a guiding principle, our strategy encourages a sense of
ownership that draws on intrinsic motivation for research, alongside the collegial community
already existing in the Division of Psychology, and the support of School and Faculty
management. This was supported by the creation of the research clusters and affiliation of staff
with these clusters and, later on, by the emergence of the grassroots ECR network initiated and
led by early career staff. This collegiality persevered as the staff group grew and diversified.
1.2.1 Building capacity
Although there was no REF submission in UOA 4 at DMU in 2014, the unit has since grown its
base of research-active staff and is returning 43 staff in this submission. This increase was
supported by a research-driven recruitment strategy that prioritised research-active staff with the
capacity to fit in and augment existing research. Of the 43 staff submitted to the current REF, 31
(72%) were appointed since 2014. Some 67% (N = 28) of submitted staff are early career
researchers and we particularly benefited from the VC2020 Lecturer scheme to which ten staff
(Aldridge, Bisson, Crivelli Delgado, Ku, Noreen, Prpic, Quincey, Svirydzenka as well as
Buckley and Christou, the last two returned as Category B staff) were appointed.
A research baselining exercise in 2015 identified 16 REF-eligible outputs in UOA 4 produced by
Psychology staff in the census period of the previous REF (2009–2013). We are now submitting a

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

total of 106 outputs, all of them peer-reviewed journal articles.
1.2.2 Fostering ECR development and success
The ECR network led by AWilson and Prpic (section 2) aims to provide a mutual exchange of
knowledge and ideas to help shape the IPS and support ECRs. The network supports writing for
publication, external-income generation, and offers in-house training events. The network also
represents ECRs on the IPS Research Committee and reports regularly to the IPS Director and
Faculty Associate Dean Research and Innovation (ADRI). ECR achievements have increased
substantially in the last few years, as shown in Figure 1. The trajectory is generally increasing,
although we identified a dip in grant submission in 2018/19. ECRs were encouraged to apply for
Faculty research funds, which resulted in additional Faculty support to the cohort in 2019/20,
leading to increased grant submission. We aim to increase this further in 2020/21 and beyond.
Figure 1:




1.2.3 Support to enable societal engagement and research impact
The Unit’s strategy is to embed impact in all projects from the very start of the research and to
ensure that our ECRs are fully aware of the significance of impact. Members of the Unit work with
two Impact Officers who provide workshops and one-to-one advice on impact.
The four impact case studies included in this submission have been supported by the impact
team and have benefited from identifying impact at the commencement of the projects:
1      Coulthard and Aldridge’s Sensory Play Toolkit, designed to provide support for food
       acceptance in children;
2      Yates and Gatsou’s programme, which embeds new clinical policies, operational
       strategies and training protocols across adult and child mental health services;
3      Jaspal, Papaloukas, Williamson and Fish’s service evaluation of interventions targeting
       Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Gay, Bisexual, and Men who have Sex with Men
       (GBMSM), which has led to changes in inclusion that improved the health and well-being
       outcomes for this marginalised group; and




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4      Younie, Laird, Bisson, Baker-Kukona and Williamson’s global package of educational
       resources for children to learn about germs and the importance of handwashing and
       introduce behavioural changes to improve handwashing.
All members of the Unit engage with the public and embed impact in their research activities. For
example, Wilkinson made a presentation to the Sign Design Society on the extra challenges that
those with a vision impairment face during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. AWilson has been
engaging with the New Futures Project using research to inform the volunteer work she does both
during their drop-in sessions and outreach on the beat in the evening with street sex workers. She
served as Chair of the Board of Trustees for East Midlands Sexual Health from February 2020 to
October 2020 and is currently a board member. Crivelli Delgado gave a talk at the postgraduate
medical education programme of the Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust.
Williamson, Coulthard and Quincey conducted Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) research
with a new charity for those affected by lobular cancer. Williamson is working on a project called
‘Families feeding under fives in Leicester’ with the public health department of Leicester City
Council (led by Ochieng). They deliver focus group facilitation training as a key part of the project.
Quincey is involved with the launch of virtual meet-up for men with breast cancer. The interest is
still ongoing. On International Men’s Day, 2020, The Psychologist publicised two separate but
related items online. Quincey is a founder member, and alongside NHS clinicians will be
providing expertise to the men at some of the meetings. She is also meeting with NHS clinicians
every 8–12 weeks to develop plans to work together to improve practices for men with breast
cancer.

1.3 FUTURE STRATEGIC AIMS AND GOALS FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT
Since REF 2014, the Unit has substantially expanded its research-active staff and capabilities.
We are now expanding our strategic priorities in response to changes in the funding and political
landscape. To achieve this, our research clusters have developed five-year strategic plans, which
are agreed with the ADRI, and reviewed by the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee
(FRIC) annually. The plans involve enhancing our outputs through the six routes described here.
1.3.1 Enhancing internationally leading and internationally recognised outputs
We will continue to increase our base of staff with significant responsibility for research, providing
support for more staff to be allocated RIAs in line with our REF Code of Practice. In line with this,
all research-active staff will be expected to produce on average one high-quality peer-reviewed
manuscript annually. We aim to increase the quantity, quality and visibility of our research outputs
with international collaborators, and through refinement of our publication and dissemination
policies. In line with this, we will target 50% or more of our publications annually to top journals
and continue to support open access publication so as to maximise the reach of our research. We
will encourage national and international cross-discipline collaborations to enhance
interdisciplinary innovation.
1.3.2 Enhancing impact and knowledge transfer
Generation of impact will be a key priority and we will monitor our strategy for impact in line with
grant applications and ensure increased alignment between impact work and the relevant United
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) for the Unit: Good health and well-being
(SDG3); quality education (SDG4); gender equality (SDG5); and reduced inequalities (SDG10). In
particular, SDG3 will be enhanced through interdisciplinary projects in research which will include
colleagues in other disciplines, such as performance studies, law, education and engineering. For
example, Svirydzenka is collaborating on a project in Mental Health Literacy in rural and urban
communities in Kerala, India, using applied theatre methodology, funded by the Economic and
Social Research Council (ESRC), Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) and the Global
Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). We will provide more training in methods to support
researchers in demonstrating impact through the continued use of Figshare (an academic
research data management and research data dissemination web-based interface) and other
Open Science platforms (e.g. the Open Science Forum), to create knowledge exchange with
                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

external partners. The impact and knowledge transfer lead will initiate events to extend our reach
and contribute to strategic planning.
1.3.3 Funding
We will increase our income generation by 10% annually over the next five years through regular
horizon scanning for funding opportunities and making effective use of the University’s Research
Services Directorate (RSD) that provides resources and a central knowledge base to support
research activities. We will be targeting funding opportunities, building on established income
streams, increasing inter- and cross-disciplinary collaborative grants aligned to other relevant
themes and increasing the number of staff leading on these as PIs. We will diversify our funding
sources to include a higher proportion of UKRI funding. A new iteration of the Peer Review
College will provide mentoring for staff throughout the entire funding application cycle.
To further strengthen this commitment to increase our funding, staff will benefit from our projected
membership of the Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard Scheme. Staff within the first five
years of their academic post will have the opportunity to apply for up to £100,000 over two years
to support their research on health-related themes, and will have access to the Academy’s
acclaimed mentoring scheme.
1.3.4 Staff development
We will strengthen our research leadership by growing our academic research base and
recognise and reward research excellence. We will continue to recruit talented researchers and
will nurture and support mid-career researchers to strengthen their research leadership and
progression as well as promoting existing star researchers from senior lecturer to AP and
professor.
We will use our RIA scheme to guide, mentor and support career progression and research
achievements from ECRs through to those with significant responsibility for research regarding
quality outputs, income and impact.
As well as our peer mentoring scheme and training schemes, we will submit for Bronze Athena
SWAN in November 2021, and are committed to further submissions to Silver, and ultimately to
Gold. We will work towards promoting equality for all researchers and acting to enhance the
position of women engaged with research, and to ensure career progression for female
researchers, improving gender balance in the associate professor and professor positions.
1.3.5 Postgraduate research student numbers
We will increase our postgraduate student cohort by a further 50% over the next five years
through enhancing our supervisory capacity, offering both full and matched-funded studentships,
and ‘taster’ sessions for academic, clinical and other NHS staff wishing to study for a higher
research degree. We will increase our supervision capacity by ensuring ECR inclusion in PhD
supervision teams, constructing teams of three supervisors, and including staff who have not yet
had an opportunity to supervise.
1.3.6 Open access, and research integrity
Researchers will adopt a policy of adherence to the University’s Ethics and Research Integrity
guidelines with specific commitments to open research and culture. All empirical research will
continue to be subject to approval by the Faculty’s Research Ethics Committee, with at least two
colleagues in Psychology initially providing peer review, and decisions scrutinised by the Chair.
Open access will be promoted by making research outputs accessible through the Green Open
Access route on the institutional open research archive (DORA) within three months of
acceptance. Some outputs will be supported for publication through the Gold Open Access route
using central funds when available. Researchers will also ensure that data is deposited on
Figshare, our data repository system, or the Open Science Forum, to demonstrate transparency,
and share with the wider community in order to generate greater potential benefit.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Outside of the formal institutional facilities, individuals will be encouraged to promote their outputs
through media platforms. In other cases, staff will take opportunities to write opinion or discussion
pieces for open access publishers such as The Conversation as well as blogs.
Section 2. People
2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
Our staffing strategy has been directed at developing research capacity with targeted
appointments to our core research clusters, aimed at maintaining a critical mass of research
across the breadth of the IPS and maximising opportunities for collaborative and interdisciplinary
research. All new appointees are required to demonstrate a track record of international quality
publications, and potential for external research funding success. In line with the University’s
staffing policy, the Unit has focused on the recruitment and development of ECRs and has
endeavoured to attract a diverse range of researchers.
A particular emphasis has been placed on developing research strengths in Cognition and
Neuroscience, with emphasis on the Unit’s research strengths, including cognitive neuroscience,
higher mental processing, and vision and navigation. Within the census period, the clusters have
benefited from the following appointments:
2.1.1 Cognition and Neuroscience
Baker-Kukona and Bisson (psycholinguistics, modelling); Crivelli Delgado (cross-cultural,
emotions); Dubey (autism spectrum disorders, neuroscience); Rechdan (social cognition, meta-
cognition); Shaw (sleep); Wilkinson (reasoning, theory of mind); Sobczak-Edmans (cognitive
neuroscience); Hasshim (attention, Bayesian statistics); de Condappa and Prpic (navigation);
Noreen (neuroscience, memory); Cook (neuroscience); TWilson (education); and Barlas
(agency), Buckley (vision and navigation); Christou (neuroscience); and Bower (sleep). The last
three returned here as Category B staff.
2.1.2 Health Psychology
McGale, Aldridge and Sharps (eating behaviour); Quincey (marginalisation and health); Bhatti
(health disparity, using the arts to promote well-being); AWilson (discourse analysis,
marginalisation and health); and Apps (chronic illness).
2.1.3 Social, Personality and Cultural Psychology
Svirydzenka (cultural psychology, self and identity); Ku and Lu (judgement and decision-
making); Stanulewicz (prosociality); Ogunbode (climate change, environmental psychology);
and Goodman (discursive psychology, asylum seekers).
2.1.4 Psychology and Technology
Short, Farnell and Coles (cyberpsychology)
All these appointments were made at a junior (lecturer / senior lecturer) level, with the exception
of Short, who was appointed at the associate professor level. This is a targeted area of
development going forward, supporting staff to gain significant responsibility for research whether
through the RIA route or the Researcher-in-Training (RIT) route (described below).
Our succession planning strategy has prioritised the next generation of researchers by recruiting
through the VC2020 and Early Career Academic Fellows (ECAF) schemes. In addition, to build
research capacity, the University has also launched the RIT route for the next generation of
researchers, with a programme of support where we have a number of new appointees securing
developmental support en route to having significant responsibility for research, with 320 hours (a
day per week) accorded to this.
For all researchers, there is centralised research training that provides dedicated specialist and
transferrable skills aligned to the Researcher Development Framework and we ensure staff are
supported in various forms throughout the different stages of their careers. The RIA is also open
to all researchers to apply with allocations ranging from 320 hours up to 640 hours per year
(which equates to between 1–2 days per week) and made on a transparent basis with each
                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

application considered on its own merits. Notification of outcomes is through the Associate Dean
Research and Innovation (ADRI) and, where RIAs or RITs are not allocated, developmental
considerations form part of the feedback given with appropriate support identified, including
effective mentoring, particularly for less-experienced researchers going through this process for
the first time.
2.1.5 Early Career Researchers
Our research strategy is tailored to cater for all stages of a research career, with particular
emphasis on providing support and mentorship to our large ECR community. Our strategy
focuses on training and mentoring ECRs in order to support their development as independent
researchers, to encourage development of leadership skills, and to enhance workplace
satisfaction so that gifted ECRs remain at DMU, eventually developing into research leaders in
their own right, thus creating a pipeline for promotion and ensuring succession. A network
initiated by AWilson and Bower is open to anyone who considers themselves to be an ECR and
aims to provide support and mutual exchange of knowledge and ideas. This creates a collectivist
versus individualist culture of research in psychology. We have a gender-balanced representation
of chair AWilson and co-chair Prpic for the network and the network consists of members with a
variety of methodological expertise including quantitative, qualitative and mixed methods. Since
its formation, the Network has grown to 20 members.
To date, ECRs have been involved in bidding as either PI or CI for over £1,300,000 in external
funding, received over £13,000 in equipment funding, published 35 manuscripts and have 23
manuscripts submitted for publication. Members of the Network have also delivered 34
conference and seminar contributions. ECRs now are being mentored by senior staff to act as
supervisors for 14 PhD students. Training sessions have also been delivered to ECRs on how to
use Figshare, which can be incorporated into the data protection and storage plan of all future
grant submissions.
To continue to encourage public engagement, a presentation was delivered to ECRs by the
volunteer service DMUlocal (REF5a). This has led to the submission of three grant projects by
ECRs to the DMUlocal research funding scheme and to around 30 volunteer research assistants
being supervised to conduct research with local charities. A Grant Seminar Series has been
organised by the ECR Network with Baker-Kukona where staff who have been successful with
the Experimental Psychology Society, British Academy, Ministry of Defence, ESRC, GCRF, and
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), presented their research and provided advice for
staff members who are thinking of applying or are applying to one of the funders. Where relevant,
ECRs are particularly encouraged to become members of the Experimental Psychology Society,
to encourage networking and engagement with a research-intensive culture; and following this, to
submit applications to Experimental Psychology Society funding schemes, as training and pump-
priming for larger bids. They are also encouraged to become members of the British
Psychological Society, and to submit applications to support pilot projects that can show they
have a track record of successful external funding. Members have formed collaborations
internationally (China, India, Italy, Japan, Spain and the US) as well as across disciplines
(Business and Law, Arts and Design, Pharmacy) and within the local community (East Midlands
Sexual Health, New Futures, Leicestershire Police), and are beginning to generate impact
through these collaborations.
Peer mentoring is coordinated by the ECR Network and focuses on short-term, clearly defined
goals. It is characterised by a lack of hierarchy and informality to help facilitate interaction and
support. The ECR mentoring is a mix of group and one-on-one mentoring, often in the form of
meetings that provide a specific piece of knowledge or a specific skill when researchers need
them. Benefits include building professional networking, having fast answers to targeted queries,
gaining skills and finding solutions, developing and practising personal skills such as leadership,
communication and negotiation, and navigating change. Group mentoring involves a mentor
building a relationship with a group of mentees at the same time, facilitating and guiding them
around a specific topic. Benefits include group cohesion, social support, mutual support and
reciprocity. Examples of successful peer mentoring include sessions on publishing during
Covid-19, academic leadership, and submitting for external-income generation, engaging with the
                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

local community via DMUlocal, and Open Science training. This has led, for example, to 35
manuscripts accepted for publication in peer-reviewed journals, and for grant submissions
totalling £593,883 in 2019/20.

2.2 RESEARCH SUPPORT
Dedicated research budgets support research activity within the IPS. The IPS has an annual
budget to support small-scale research projects around £1,000 per bid on a competitive basis,
administered by the IPS Research Committee, that typically funds data collection in support of
grant applications, high-quality publications, or societal impact generation and evidence
collection. This is well-subscribed and in recent years the Faculty increased the budget over
sevenfold (from around £3,000 to £22,000) in response to staff interest and the success of the
scheme to achieve deliverables. Conference attendance is financed through the School staff
development budget and administered by the Head of School.
In line with DMU policy, research-active members of staff are encouraged to submit an application
for a RIA, which is supported within IPS but reviewed centrally and managed by line managers. In
addition, staff can apply for short-term research leave in one of two schemes developed within
Psychology and administered by the Institute Director and the Head of Division. Leave of up to
five working days is reviewed by the Director and Head of Division in a fast-track process.
Research leave longer than this (typically several weeks) is additionally subject to peer review.
Examples of deliverables achieved with the research leave scheme include Yu’s paper in Journal
of Psychology and Prpic’s paper in Psychological Research. There is also a centrally managed
competitive University-wide research leave scheme for colleagues with a specific project for which
they need leave from the University for a period of time, or for which they need additional travel or
subsistence budget to undertake international, interdisciplinary fieldwork for research which helps
to achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. During the census period,
Elqayam and Jaspal were awarded research leave which supported their respective career
trajectories, leading to promotions to a personal chair (Elqayam) and to Pro Vice-Chancellor
Research (Jaspal).
The Psychology Research Experience Scheme is a voluntary scheme for undergraduate students
wishing to be involved in research as research assistants. It provides volunteers with practical
research experience while allowing staff to collect data for their research. For example, Noreen’s
output in Experimental Psychology drew on data collected by two student volunteers. Members of
staff can also apply to the Frontrunners scheme, in which students can be employed to support
research.
All members of staff within the Institute meet three times annually for appraisal with a senior
academic colleague. At this meeting, past research performance and future research plans are
discussed in connection with research allowance plans, new objectives are agreed and
performance is monitored. Where appropriate, training needs are identified, which can be
supported from School funds. The process is also used to support and guide staff towards
promotion. Over the census period, seven individuals in the Institute have been promoted: two to
professor (Elqayam, Jaspal), one to reader (Coulthard), five to associate professor (Baker-
Kokuna, Scase, Song, Williamson, Lee).

2.3 RESEARCH CULTURE
A number of informal mechanisms of research support and staff development are crucial to the
development of a vibrant research culture. In term-time, weekly seminars by internal and external
speakers are open to all staff and postgraduate students. Speakers are chosen on the basis of
their potential to support existing research activity within the Institute.
Members of staff in the Institute are involved in activities that encourage a community-minded and
international research environment. For example, staff (Crivelli Delgado, Baker-Kukona,
Palfreyman, Scase, Song, Wilkinson) are involved in the University initiatives of DMUglobal and
DMUlocal (REF5a). Several research training events were organised during the census period,
some of which included invited international guest speakers. This included intensive training in
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

meta-reasoning and meta-cognition (led by Rakefet Ackerman, the Technion, Israel); training in
conducting psychological research in different national and cultural context (led by Anise Wu from
University of Macau and Francis Cheung from Lingnan University, Hong Kong); research impact
training, and training in Structural Equation Modelling techniques.

2.4 RESEARCH MENTORING
Mentoring is based on a blended approach, which combines traditional and peer mentoring. All
ECRs are provided with a combination of traditional and peer mentoring (see 2.2.1).
Traditional mentoring is provided through support and advice from more experienced colleagues.
Research induction is run several times a year for all incoming staff in the Unit. The research
induction covers research information relating to the support structure at DMU, available
resources to staff and informal advice. Staff doing experimental research are encouraged to join
the Experimental Psychology Society.
A Research Mentorship Scheme based at the SASS draws on the Faculty professoriate, emeritus
professors as well as current researchers. We have set up a Peer Review Scheme, Reading
Groups and Writing Groups to enhance the production of high-quality outputs (some of these
sessions were moved online during the pandemic). We organise grant application workshops
including for particular funders, protected writing spaces and drop-in support sessions to
complement the guidance offered by the University.
A DMU Peer Review College has recently been constructed to provide further mentoring for staff
applying for funding and PGR scholarships.
Several staff in UOA 4 (Elqayam, Mitchell, Crivelli Delgado, AWilson) have benefited from the
University’s Future Research Leaders Programme. Our Future Research Leaders programme,
which provides mentoring together with a stipend of £1,500 for developmental activities, gives our
rising research stars an opportunity to develop their research leadership skills, thereby setting out
a path to senior positions. The programme seeks both to place this group as leading researchers
in the University and to equip them with the skills and the sense of responsibility to act as
champions and inspire research in their own research groups, departments, schools and
faculties. Participation in the programme is an accolade and the size of the cohort is limited to 12
people across the University per annum, but our Unit has been successful in supporting five staff
through the programme since its inception.

2.5 SUPPORT MECHANISMS AND EVIDENCE OF TRAINING AND SUPERVISION OF PGR
STUDENTS
Since 2014, the Unit has seen three PhD completions. Recently, our community of PhD students
has grown, with members of staff currently supervising 32 PhD students, 24 of them as first
supervisors. These students are a vital component of the research culture of the Unit: they are
active and full members of our research clusters. All PhD students are supervised by two
members of staff, and sometimes three where this is deemed appropriate. All supervision teams
include at least one supervisor who had previously supervised to completion. Seventeen of the
supervision teams include ECR supervisors, ten of them as first supervisors. Joint supervision
meetings are arranged on a regular basis. Performance against key targets and mandatory
reviews are recorded on our PGR management system and monitored by the Doctoral College.
We are dedicated to creating an environment that focuses on students’ health and well-being. We
therefore ensure our students engage with schemes and resources that facilitate their
development and studies through academic support, personal tutoring, finance advice, mental
health support, and careers and employability advice. We also recognise our research students
as vital to our capacity-building as well as to ensuring a vibrant research culture and environment.
They are therefore integral in our decision-making with representation on the FRIC and on the
IPS Research Committee.
A Faculty PhD Tutor liaises with PhD students and is responsible for maintaining and supporting
PhD research culture. The PhD Tutor and the PhD student representative sit on the IPS

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

committee. PhD and masters’ students are encouraged to attend staff seminars.
Our research students are carefully managed through the Doctoral College which oversees all
administrative aspects of their studies and monitors their progress from recruitment to completion.
They also provide generic training across the University, but the Faculty additionally provides two
programmes of doctoral training for this Unit with one in the Applied Social Sciences and the
other in Bioanalysis, Pharmaceuticals and Health. These enable students to further develop
specialist skills that map to the Researcher Development Framework.
The appointment of supervisors is overseen by the Faculty Head of Research Students in
collaboration with the research institute director. Effective supervision forms the basis of DMU’s
Certificate in Research Supervision which all supervisors are required to complete before they act
as supervisors. This includes training in the required skills, the procedural regulations and student
monitoring. This has ensured that students get appropriate support and the benefit of this was
reflected in the 2020 PRES with 93.4% of students feeding back that they are happy with their
supervision, 8% higher than the national sector and 7.5% above the benchmark. Apart from
supervisors, the Faculty Head of Research Students works with the Doctoral College to oversee
student academic progression and pastoral care, and reports to the FRIC which monitors
students’ progress as part of the performance monitoring of our institutes. The process of
monitoring is supported by the use of an online platform that allows research students,
supervisors and the Doctoral College to track and record progression throughout the students
journey from registration to viva, ensuring milestones are met on time. Annual reviews, training
and records of discussion are monitored through the Doctoral College.
Our strategy for enhancing the success of our postgraduate researchers begins with linking each
student to a research cluster to ensure they have strong support from active researchers with
significant responsibility for research and opportunities for peer mentoring. This is in addition to
their supervisory support. Our students are encouraged to be proactive in promoting their
research and are provided with funds and administrative support through the Faculty Research
and Innovation Office (RIO) to organise a student focused Postgraduate Research Conference.
This provides an opportunity to acquire organisational skills as well as develop their presentation
competencies. The conference is additional to several other events organised by the Doctoral
College, including the PGR lecture series and the three-minute-thesis and poster competitions.
To further support our students and ensure they can work undisrupted when on campus, we have
created designated postgraduate research student offices with dedicated computer stations, a
kitchen, seating area and lockers which is additional to the central library facilities. This enables
our students to work more closely with other colleagues and be situated close to their supervisors.
Funding is available to all students for conference attendance and research trips (up to £500 per
student). Within the census period, the University has funded four full scholarships and one fee-
only scholarship in the Unit.
Staff encourage PhD students to submit their work for publication in peer-reviewed journals, and
to present it at national and international conference. Within the census period, staff published 22
peer-reviewed journal articles with PhD and MSc students, including high-profile outlets such as
Appetite (IF3.8) and Social Sciences and Medicine (IF3.4); one popular science piece in The
Conversation; and 31 conference contributions with PhD and MSc students. Several of our former
PhD students are now lecturers at DMU.

2.6 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
Researchers and ECRs are fully integrated into, and benefit from, the research culture of the Unit.
In line with DMU policy, the Division of Psychology is committed to ensuring equality, and
diversity issues are properly addressed in all aspects of its work. For example, all members of
staff have to complete an Equality and Diversity training course, all members of interview panels
must also complete a training course before appointment, and all selection panels must include a
female member of staff. See Table 1 for the gender and ethnicity balance of the Unit.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Table 1: Staff gender and ethnicity balance
        Male    Female   White   BAME     Not         Profs/Senior   Readers/AP/PL   ECAF/L/SL
                                          disclosed   staff

 2014 0         0        0       0        0           0              0               0
 2021   35%     65%      53%     33%      14%         5% (F =        9% (F = 25%)    86% (F =
 (43)                                                 50%)                           70%)
Notes: ‘F’ indicates number of women in the population. VC2020 SL = 5; Lecturers = 2.
Of the 43 members submitted, 65% (N = 28) are female, and 35% (N = 15) are male; 53% (N =
21) are White, 33% (N = 14) are BAME (with 18.6% / N = 8 undisclosed / unknown ethnicity). Of
the 43 members, the majority, 86% (N = 37) are lecturers and senior lecturers, 9% (N = 4) are
reader / associate professor, and 5% (N = 2 are senior staff / professor). We acknowledge that
the gender balance is not the same across career levels, with 70.3% (N = 26) female among
ECRs, lecturers and senior lecturers, but only 25% (N = 1) of readers and APs. At the senior
staff / professorial level, 50% (N = 1) are female. This presents a challenge for the Unit going
forward, and is the direct motivation for the relevant strategic aim mentioned in section 1. We
identified in the population being submitted six female VC2020 lecturers / senior lecturers, who
constitute a female promotion potential in the pipeline. We will invest in mentoring and career
progression support to improve the gender balance in the more senior career levels for our future
submissions.
Athena SWAN: Our environmental culture continues to progress in terms of equality and diversity
to include the Athena SWAN principles around equal opportunities specifically for women and
their careers. Building on the success of the Faculty of Health and Life Science’s Women in
Science, Society and Health (WISSH) Network, a SASS application is being drafted for the
Bronze Athena SWAN award to be submitted in November 2021. A submission to the Silver
award is planned. To date the Athena SWAN initiatives have included a staff survey collecting
both quantitative and qualitative data, a presentation of the results of the survey to the School for
a question-and-answer session, and data requests to HR and management on sex divisions
within the School.
Psychology staff are represented on the Athena SWAN committee, including a PhD student from
Psychology. AWilson is also involved in drafting the action points to overcome any of the current
obstacles for women in this section. Palfreyman and Aldridge are involved in drafting the section
on key career transition points for academic staff that include recruitment, induction and
promotions. This has led to several notable changes already put into practice in psychology. For
example, all Grant Seminar Series talks have been recorded and materials shared on the
psychology blackboard community for those who may have been unable to attend due to caring
responsibilities. There is also an even gender split in leadership of the ECR Network and we have
increased our recruitment of female PhD students.
Staff are also supported by DMU’s policies for leave and flexible working benefitting both male
(taking paternity leave) and female colleagues.
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
3.1 RESEARCH INCOME
Since 2014, the Unit has seen income generation and knowledge transfer from charities and
some statutory organisations (see Figure 2).
Given that this is our debut submission and that we have a high percentage of ECRs, our
research journey has just begun and consequently, our research income as PI is relatively
modest. Since 2014 staff in psychology have generated external research income of around
£595,000, and an additional £1,416,000 in consultancy funding, with funding coming mainly from
the UK government (Scase, Hadlington), the EU (Scase) and UK charities (Baker-Kukona,
Christou, Elqayam, Prpic, Bisson, Scase). We had particular success with the British

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Academy / Leverhulme Small Research Grants Scheme (Coulthard, Crivelli Delgado, Ku).




                              Figure 2: Distribution of research income



Examples of successful funded projects include:
3.1.1 Cognition and Neuroscience
Elqayam, Thompson, Over and Evans’s project on Generative Capacity of Norms funded by a
Leverhulme Research Project Grant (£75,000). The project explored the psychological
mechanisms underlying the unique human capacity to generate novel normative rules. The
postdoctoral researcher (Wilkinson) employed by the project is now a senior lecturer in
Psychology at DMU.
Crivelli Delgado, The Behavioral Ecology View of Facial Displays in Industrialized and Small-
Scale Societies. Funded by the British Academy / Leverhulme Small Research Grant (£10,000).
The project explored the use of facial displays to interact with others by conducting a series of
studies in Western labs and in a society of subsistence horticulturalists and fishermen – the
Mwani of Matemo Island in Mozambique.
3.1.2 Health Psychology
Coulthard, Sensory Play and Five a Day. Funded by the Feeding for Life Foundation (£49,000).
The project focused on increasing the variety of food intake by children with food neophobia
(‘picky eaters’) by encouraging them to sense fruit and vegetables by touch and smell. This
project eventually led to the development of the impact case study ‘Playing with food: Game-
based interventions to increase food acceptance’ led by Coulthard and Aldridge.
Fish, Williamson, Brown, Padley and Bell. More than a Diagnosis: Promoting Good Outcomes in
Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Cancer Care – A Qualitative Study of Patients’ Experiences in Clinical
Oncology. Funded by Macmillan Cancer Support (£20,000). Cancer inequalities, including
differences in cancer outcomes and patient satisfaction, affect a range of groups including
lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGB) people. This report identifies key moments in the cancer journey
where care provided for LGB cancer patients can contribute to their recovery and well-being.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

3.1.3 Social, Cultural, and Personality Psychology
Lakhanpaul, Aldridge, Raghavan, Heys, Svirydzenka, Ucci and Lorgelly. Covid-19 Impacts on
Children Under 5 in Temporary Accommodation: Co-developing Solutions from Lockdown to the
Recovery Phase – A Mixed-Methods Study. Funded by the ESRC (£527,000). Ongoing. The
purpose of this study is to determine the barriers attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic and our
associated health services and societal response, experienced by parents of children under five
living in temporary accommodation nationally for themselves and their children.
Ku, Wu (University of Macau) and Andres (Cardiff University). ‘Does money buy happiness?’ The
Causal Relationships Among Consumption, Motives, and Well-Being Across Cultures. Funded by
the British Academy / Leverhulme (£10,000). This project brings together two separate lines of
research investigation – materialism research in social and personality psychology, and
experiential consumption in consumer research – to answer the intriguing question of whether
money can indeed buy happiness. In particular the project examines whether the relationship
between consumption and well-being is moderated by motives, and whether this relationship can
be generalised to individuals of different socio-economic status and from different cultural
backgrounds.
3.1.4 Psychology and Technology
Led at DMU by Scase. DOREMI: Decrease of Cognitive Decline, Malnutrition and Sedentariness
by Elderly Empowerment in Lifestyle Management and Social Inclusion. Funded by the EU FP7-
ICT (€216,000). The project focused on three main health aspects related to frailty in older
people: unhealthy nutrition, sedentariness and cognitive decline. These aspects are the main
items at the basis of the DOREMI environment: a context-aware and smart system able to learn
and reason about older people, their intentions, preferences and aims, able to provide feedback
and propose solutions to improve their lifestyle.

3.2 RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE
The IPS is supported by the FRIC which approves targets and monitors performance against
agreed objectives and deliverables, including grant applications, awards, income and
postgraduate student registrations and completions. Membership of the FRIC includes the ADRI,
Institute Directors, the institutional Head of Research Services, the Faculty RIO Manager, Mentor
Lead, ECR and ECR Champion, REF UOA Coordinators, and Head of Research Degree
Students. The Dean and the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Enterprise, together with his
deputy, are ex officio members.
Connections between institutes, Faculty and University are maintained through the ADRI who sits
on the Faculty Executive Committee, University Research Management Group, REF Steering
Committee and University Research and Innovation Committee. This ensures activities within
institutes align with the key strategic objectives of the Faculty and University.
The Faculty RIO, with its own dedicated staff headed by a RIO Manager, provides wider support
for the institutes and researchers, including managing, under the direction of the ADRI, the
budget allocated to bench fees. They also provide administrative support and assist with
organising various workshops, conferences and the Faculty Research Awards. Additionally, they
produce a research newsletter highlighting the latest developments and achievements in our
research and support the ADRI in managing and processing various applications including those
for RIAs as well as internal grant funding calls. The RIO Manager sits on the Faculty Research
and Innovation Committee and members of the team service the committee.
Since 2014 the University has invested approximately £250,000 in psychology infrastructure.
Laboratory and equipment infrastructure include 12 soundproofed, air-conditioned cubicles
equipped with personal computers (PCs) and web cameras; an observation suite with a two-way
mirror and camera observation system; four psychology PC labs with 20 PCs in each, and a
perception lab with eye-tracking and visual equipment. In recognition of growing research activity
in psychology, the University allocated funds to refurbish and equip additional cognitive-
neurological lab space. This includes six research rooms, including a dedicated eye-tracker room,
                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

EEG room and a cognitive room.
Specialist software subscriptions include those to Qualtrics, SPSS, Pavlovia and Superlab.
Specialist equipment includes response pads to use with Superlab and Psychopy; eight Eyetribe
mobile eye-trackers; Tobii Pro Nano Eye Tracker; Cedrus StimTracker; eight ADInstruments
powerlabs with attachments of Pulse, GSR, EEG, ECG, Respiratory, skin temperature; one SECA
12 channel ECG, one SR eye link 1000 plus; and one Biosemi EEG with caps of 128 and 32
channels.
Colleagues can apply for small research funding from the Faculty budget, usually around £1,000.
Support has increased during the census period and is currently around £22,000 per annum.
Applications specify the project, the required expenses and the proposed deliverables such as
manuscript submission and grant application, and are peer-reviewed to ensure project quality.
DMU has also invested in infrastructure for PGR students, with the number of research cubicles
increasing from 6 to 12, the number of eye-trackers from one to five, and with a 128-channel
EEG.
Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Members of academic staff in IPS have made a broad contribution to the discipline of Psychology
within the census period, in wide-ranging international and national collaborations, media interest,
grant reviewing and impact work.

4.1 INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND
PARTNERSHIPS
4.1.1 Cognition and Neuroscience
Members of this cluster collaborate internationally with high-profile academic institutes such as
the Sorbonne; University of Padova; University of California, Santa Barbara; and Haskins
Laboratories New Haven, affiliated with the University of Yale and the University of Connecticut;
and nationally with institutes such as Durham University, University of St Andrews, and University
of Dundee. These collaborations resulted in high-profile outputs in leading journals such as
PNAS, Trends in Cognitive Science and Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, and in
funded work. Noteworthy collaborations include:
Baker-Kukona’s collaborations with the University of Connecticut, Haskins Laboratories New
Haven, and the University of Dundee, have led to outputs in the Journal of Memory and
Language (IF 3.9), Cognition (IF 3.9) and Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory
and Cognition (IF 2.8), investigating the moment-by-moment cognitive processes that support
real-time language comprehension, especially in connection to spatial language.
Crivelli Delgado’s work on cross-cultural differences in facial expressions is done in
collaboration with Universidad Autónoma de Madrid; the University of Melbourne; University of
California, Santa Barbara; Boston College; University of Glasgow; and the Metropolitan Museum
of Art. This has led to outputs in PNAS (IF 9.4), Trends in Cognitive Science (IF 15.2) and Journal
of Experimental Psychology: General (IF 3.9), among others.
Elqayam’s work on the psychology of conditionals is done in collaboration with Sorbonne
University, leading to a new theory of conditionals published in Cognitive Psychology (IF 4.1). Her
work on the psychology of inference from descriptions to norms was done in collaboration with
the University of Saskatchewan, Canada, University of Plymouth, and Durham University, leading
to a Research Project Grant from the Leverhulme Trust and outputs including a paper in the
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition (IF 2.8).
Prpic collaborates with the University of Trieste, the University of Padova, Delft University of
Technology and University of Malta, among others. This work has led to an output in the Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance (IF 2.5), and a small research
grant (£3,500) from the Experimental Psychology Society.
Additional international collaborations within the Cognition & Neuroscience cluster include

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

McMaster University, Wilfrid Laurier University, Bielefeld University (Barlas), Maastricht
University, the Netherlands (Rechdan); national collaborations include University of Liverpool
(Cook); Goldsmiths, University of London (Noreen); and the University of St Andrews (Noreen).
Collaborations with research beneficiaries include City of Hope Medical Center, California
(Elqayam); Age Platform Europe AISBL (Scase) and Unilever (Cook).
4.1.2 Health Psychology
Members of this cluster collaborate with research beneficiaries such as the NHS and Macmillan
Cancer Support, as well as leading international institutes such as University of Melbourne, and
nationally such as the University of Oxford, leading to impactful work, outputs in leading venues
such as Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews and Molecular Psychiatry, and funded research
work. Noteworthy projects include:
Coulthard and Aldridge collaborate with beneficiaries including local schools in Leicester and
the City Council to develop interventions to increase fruit and vegetable acceptance among
children. This led to a research project funded by Feeding for Life Foundation, outputs in the
Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (IF 4.2) and Appetite (IF 3.7), and an impact
case study included in this submission.
Dubey works in developmental disorders and has collaborations with institutes in India including
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raipur, and LGB Regional Institute of Mental Health, as
well as nationally with University College London and University of Nottingham, leading to outputs
in Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews (IF 8.5) and Molecular Autism (IF 5.7), among others.
Wang collaborates on topics relating to mental health; since early in the pandemic she has
worked on mental health issues relating to Covid-19. Her collaborations with the University of
Western Australia, the University of Macau, the University of Melbourne, Guangzhou Medical
University and University of Oxford, among others, led to outputs in leading psychiatric journals,
most recently in Molecular Psychiatry (IF 11.5), with the paper featuring on the homepage of the
journal; as well as in Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences (IF 3.9), JAMA Network Open (IF
5.0) and Translational Psychiatry (IF 5.5), among others.
Brown, Williamson, Wildbur and Bell worked with Macmillan on expanding and enhancing
psychosocial support for people with cancer. DMU created a partnership with Macmillan Cancer
Care to carry out research and to promote and recognise student volunteering in the context of
cancer support, co-funded between Macmillan and DMU. The project looked at the experiences
of the student volunteers, and at experiences of cancer caregivers from under-researched groups
(BAME background, LGBT+ and older adults). Bell, who was at the time a PhD student in
psychology, is now a lecturer in Psychology at DMU.
Additional international collaborations within the Health Psychology research cluster include
Universität Zürich, Switzerland (Wang); Chinese University of Hong Kong, Harbin University,
National University of Singapore, and Notre Dame Australia (Wang).
National collaborations: King’s College London, UCL (Aldridge); University of Nottingham
(Stanulewicz, Williamson, Mitchell); University of Warwick (Aldridge, Apps). Collaborations
with research beneficiaries include the NHS (Williamson), Nottingham University Hospitals NHS
Trust (Stanulewicz) and L’Oréal Research and Innovation (Coulthard). Apps worked with the
NHS on activity coping and education in primary care, and on developing a web-based pulmonary
rehabilitation programme. AWilson was Chair of the Board of Trustees for East Midlands Sexual
Health and is now a board member.
4.1.3 Social, Cultural, and Personality Psychology
Members collaborate with research beneficiaries such as the NHS, as well as leading
international institutes, including the University of Macau, and nationally with Warwick University,
leading to impactful work, outputs in leading venues such as the Journal of Personality and Social
Psychology, and funded research work. Noteworthy projects include:
Ku collaborates internationally with the University of Macau, and nationally with the University of
Sussex, leading to work funded by the British Academy and outputs in venues such as Journal of
                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Personality and Social Psychology (IF 6.3).
Svirydzenka collaborates nationally with the Universities of Warwick, Dundee and Leicester;
internationally with Gomel State Medical University, Belarus and Tata Institute of Social Science;
and with research beneficiaries in the NHS, leading to ESCR-funded projects, and outputs in
venues such as Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology (IF 3.4).
Additional collaborations of the Social, Cultural, and Personality Psychology cluster include
Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust (Stanulewicz).
4.1.4 Psychology and Technology
Members of the cluster collaborate with research beneficiaries including the police and other
governmental bodies, as well as leading international institutes such as the University of Pisa,
and nationally such as Oxford University and the University of Edinburgh, leading to impactful
work, outputs in leading venues such as Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, and
funded research work. Noteworthy projects include:
Goodman’s work on representations of refugees, prejudice and hate talk, using discursive and
rhetorical psychology, benefited from national collaborations with the University of Edinburgh and
Queen Margaret University, and international collaboration with the University of Adelaide,
Australia, recently leading to an output in British Journal of Social Psychology (IF 2.6).
Scase’s work on the DOREMI project, funded by the EU FP7-ICT, focused on developing a
context-aware and smart system able to learn and reason about older people, their intentions,
preferences and aims, able to provide feedback and propose solutions to improve their lifestyle.
The project brought together academic and industry collaborators across the world, including the
Italian National Research Council (CNR), University of Pisa, Austrian Institute of Technology, and
AGE, a European network of around 165 organisations of and for people aged 50+.

4.2 CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
Our diverse portfolio of research, led by established and internationally recognised academics,
has made significant contribution to advancing knowledge and made economic and societal
contributions. Through their achievements, many of our researchers have been recognised
nationally and internationally and have made significant contributions in all disciplines submitted
in this UOA. These include engaging with professional bodies; supporting activities of key funding
bodies in their capacity as reviewers; engaged with learned societies and contributed to scholarly
work. Some key examples of these contributions include:
4.2.1 Editorships and memberships of editorial boards
•   Aldridge: Review Editor, Frontiers in Psychiatry: Psychological Therapies
•   Crivelli Delgado: Editorial board member, Scientific Data
•   Elqayam: Editorial board member; Associate Editor, Thinking and Reasoning
•   Goodman: Editorial board member, Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology;
    Social and Personality Psychology Compass
•   Prpic: Associate Editor, The Open Psychology Journal; Review editor, Frontiers in
    Psychology; Frontiers in Sport and Active Living
•   T Wilson: Editorial board member, Current Psychology
•   Svirydzenka: Editorial board member, Springer Nature Encyclopaedia of Critical
    Perspectives on Mental Health
4.2.2 Keynote addresses
•   Crivelli Delgado: XII Dubrovnik Conference on Cognitive Science: Cognitive and Functional
    Perspectives on Emotions. Dubrovnik, Croatia


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   The Behavioral Ecology View of Facial Displays. International School of Ethology. Erice, Italy
•   Elqayam: Sixth Annual Meeting of the New Frameworks of Rationality Program, Schloss
    Etelsen, Germany; Bayesian Approaches to Mind and Cognition, Germany
•   Mitchell: Irish Rheumatology Health Professionals Society scientific meeting. County Kildare,
    Ireland
4.2.3 Conference organising committees
•   Aldridge: International Conference on Children's Eating Behaviour, 2019; co-organiser
•   Crivelli Delgado: Society for Affective Science (SAS) – Abstract Review Board, Virtual
    Annual Conference in 2021
•   Elqayam: International Conference on Thinking, 2021
•   Goodman: Qualitative Methods in Psychology section annual conference, 2022
•   Prpic: European Conference on Visual Perception (ECVP); 2018, Scientific committee; 2020,
    Programme committee
•   Svirydzenka: Society for the Study of Emerging Adulthood 2021 Congress committee
4.2.4 Grant reviewing
•   Aldridge: British Academy / Leverhulme
•   Crivelli Delgado: Czech Science Foundation; US–Israel Binational Science Foundation
•   Elqayam: British Academy / Leverhulme, Leverhulme; Social Sciences and Humanities
    Research Council of Canada; INSEAD, France; NWO, the Netherlands; Research Foundation
    Flanders
•   McGale: ESRC
•   Mitchell: NIHR PGfAR & HTA streams
•   Scase: ESRC, BBSRC, NIHR
•   Svirydzenka: UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Mental Health focus)
4.2.5 Reviewing for top journals (selected examples)
•   Crivelli Delgado: Journal of Experimental Psychology: General; Proceedings of the Royal
    Society B: Biological Sciences; Psychological Review; Trends in Cognitive Sciences
•   Elqayam: Behavioral and Brain Sciences; Psychological Review
4.2.6 Invited international research visits include
•   Elqayam: Rutgers University, USA; Giessen University, Germany; The Technion, Israel
•   Prpic: University of Trieste, Italy
•   Stanulewicz: SWPS University of Social Sciences and Humanities, Warsaw, Poland
•   Svirydzenka: Gomel, Belarus
4.2.7 Invited talks and seminars include
•   Barlas: Wurzburg University University, Germany; Bielefeld, Germany
•   Crivelli Delgado: University of Melbourne, Australia; Queen's University Belfast, United
    Kingdom; University of Geneva, Switzerland; Universidad Europea de Madrid, Spain;
    University of Glasgow, United Kingdom
•   Dubey: University of Huddersfield


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   Elqayam: Justus Liebig University Gießen, Germany; The Technion, Israel; The Center for
    the Study of Rationality, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel; Rutgers University Center for
    Cognitive Science, USA; University of Salzburg, Austria
•   Goodman: Avignon University, France; Sheffield Hallam, UK; Warsaw School of Economics,
    Poland; EUMIGRO conference; Peace Studies and International Development Psychology
    Division Seminar, University of Bradford
•   TWilson: The Science of Consciousness conference
•   McGale: Food Matters Live: expert panel on food marketing; N8 Agrifood Annual Conference:
    expert panel discussing consumer food choice and sustainability (Liverpool, UK); Cheltenham
    Science Festival, on the Global Food Security panel
•   Mitchell: BSGE Endometriosis Clinical Nurse Specialists training day
•   Prpic: Italian Psychology Society (Associazione Italiana Psicologia – AIP) – Experimental
    Psychology Conference
•   Scase: Leicester University
•   Wilkinson: Lincoln University; Sign Design Society
4.2.8 Consultancies
•   Scase: Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (£30,000)
•   Scase: Psychological Wellbeing Practitioners course funded by the Health Education East
    Midlands (now Health Education England in the East Midlands) (£1,345,000)
4.2.9 Memberships in external committees
•   Crivelli Delgado: The Consortium of European Research on Emotion Conference (CERE),
    Glasgow, UK; The Consortium of European Research on Emotion Conference (CERE),
    Granada, Spain
•   Goodman: Qualitative Methods in Psychology section of the BPS (chair elect from July
    2020); Social Psychology section of the BPS
4.2.10 Media talks, articles and interviews
•   Coulthard’s work on children’s healthy eating, and in particular fruit and vegetable
    consumption, has featured on international news agencies (Reuters) and radio (VICE,
    Canada), NRP radio (USA), Weekly Challenger (USA) and CBC (Canada)
•   Crivelli Delgado’s work on cross-cultural differences in emotional expressions featured on
    Nature News, New Scientist, BBC News (translated to Spanish on BBC Mundo and to
    Portuguese on BBC Brazil), Vice magazine, and the Spanish daily La Vanguardia
•   Wilkinson’s article on the effect of Covid-19 on visually-impaired people featured in The
    Conversation




                                                                                            Page 18
