Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London

 Unit of Assessment: 11

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Unit’s context and developments in 2014-2020
UoA11 at King’s College London (shortened to UoA11) is an international research centre with a
wide scope of activities ranging from core areas of computer science to its intersections with other
disciplines, such as engineering, mathematics, economics and finance, and biological sciences.
UoA11 aims to advance the foundations of computer science, open new research directions, and
achieve transformative impact on modern society.
Building on the foundations laid in REF2014 and supported by the university’s strategic investment,
during the REF2021 period, UoA11 has significantly strengthened and broadened its research,
raising further its international status. With 22 new academic appointments since 2014, the unit has
established two new research groups (Cybersecurity and Human Centred Computing), expanded
the scope of the other groups with new research areas (including data science, web computing,
game theory), and broadened its multidisciplinary research and engagement with external
stakeholders.
To instil a collaborative culture that ensures wider engagement, impact and connection to real
world challenges, UoA11 strategically organised itself according to the orthogonal structure of
research groups, formed around major specialism areas, and hubs, which focus on external
challenges arising from the economic and public spheres and facilitate cross-disciplinarity and
impact creation. This structure, established in 2017, is illustrated in Figure 1.




   Figure 1: UoA11 research environment: eight research groups (horizontally) and five
   cross-cutting hubs. The Finance, Health, Security and Urban Living hubs focus on sectors
   of economic activity. The fifth hub has a socio-technical focus on Trusted Autonomous
   Systems relevant to all.
In 2014, UoA11 was fully aligned with the Department of Informatics (DoI). The long-term
institutional-level King’s Startegic Vision 2029, launched in 2016, included major investment in
science and engineering to capitalise on existing research strengths within the university and to
ensure the right research capacity for addressing complex 21st century technological and societal

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
challenges. For UoA11, this strategy meant substantial growth of computer science, a move to the
iconic Bush House building complex, which brought the whole unit into a single location, and the
incubation of a new department of engineering. Supported by £52M university investment in
necessary infrastructure, the new Department of Engineering was launched as a separate
department in August 2019, initially comprising the Telecommunications (CTR) and Robotics
(CORE) groups from DoI, together with further academic appointments. The two departments –
Informatics and Engineering – maintain close collaborations facilitated by the aligned research
strategies, shared hubs, and coordination and support provided by their parent Faculty of Natural,
Mathematical and Engineering Sciences (NMES).
Of the 46 academic staff submitted to REF2014 UoA11, 27 are submitted to REF2021 UoA11, 8 to
other units (following transfers to other departments), and 11 have left King’s or retired. UoA11’s
REF2021 submission includes 50 academic staff (all on open-ended contracts, 48.5 FTEs), 22 of
whom (including 8 women) have been hired during 2014-2020. All eligible members of the six DoI
research groups (in 2020) are included in this submission. The members of the
Telecommunications and Robotics groups are submitted across UoA11 and UoA12 to highlight
their contributions to the research environment of UoA11 in 2014-2019 and to outline their future
plans in the context of King’s developments and growth in UoA12.
As this document shows, UoA11 at King’s provides a vibrant environment with the structures to
support and help all its staff, with particular focus on helping new starters develop and reach their
potential.

1.2 Highlights of unit’s achievements in 2014-2020
The UoA11 vision set out in REF2014 was “to be at the centre of developments in designing and
realising the future intelligent computer systems and machines that will supply the physical
infrastructure supporting healthcare, energy, transport safety and security, and the virtual worlds of
the cloud and the connected society”. Given King’s research strategy, the evolving funding
landscape, the reorganisation into two distinct departments and changes in staffing, this 2014
vision was subsequently refined and its ambition increased, resulting in overall achievements
significantly exceeding the 2014 plans. The domain-based hubs have put greater emphasis on the
societal impact of research and substantially expanded the range of targeted impact domains.

                                                                           Increase
                                                           REF2021
                                                                             from
                                                                           REF2014

               Research income, including:                     £19.8M             35%
                 UK research councils, charities,             £13.1M             68%
                  govt                                          £2.0M            106%
                 Industry, commerce, public corp.
               Best paper awards                                    23             64%
               Women                                             16/50             47%

    Table 1: Main UoA11 REF2021 indicators (financial increases compare annual averages).

Fundamental research on foundations of 5G telecommunication systems, including the 2018 5GUK
project (King’s PI: Dohler, UK Govt DCMS, £3M), and extensive collaborations with the
telecommunication industry established King’s as an international centre for advancement of 5G
technologies, with a world-first 5G testbed, and surgery and art performances over 5G.
The growing breadth and quality of UoA11 research in the areas of AI and cybersecurity have
received significant external recognition. In 2018, NCSC and EPSRC awarded King’s the status of
ACE-CSR – Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (Director: Such).
Subsequently, UoA11 became a partner in REPHRAIN, the UKRI Research Centre of Excellence
in Protecting Citizens Online (King’s CoI: Such, UKRI, £618K, announced in 2020).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The unit’s increased standing in AI research was crucial to the 2018 award of the UKRI Centre for
Doctoral Training (CDT) in Safe and Trusted Artificial Intelligence (STAI), led by King’s in
partnership with Imperial College London (Director: Luck, UKRI, £4.9M).
The UKRI Trustworthy and Autonomous Systems Hub (UK-TAS-Hub) was awarded to a
consortium consisting of the Universities of Southampton, Nottingham and King’s College London.
The King’s side is a multidisciplinary team (lead: Moreau, UKRI, £2.2M) including researchers from
DoI, Law and Business Schools, Policy Institute, Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine and Digital
Humanities. Subsequently, King’s became also a partner in the UKRI TAS Node on Governance
and Regulation (King’s CoI: Chockler, UKRI, £397K, announced in autumn 2020).
CUSP London – Centre for Urban Science and Progress – has won, as part of Westminster’s
Urban Lab Team, the 2020 Geography in Government Award for Excellence in Local Government
for developing data-driven solutions which save public money and improve Londoners’ lives. CUSP
London is a joint King’s and Warwick centre, with significant involvement of King’s UoA11 staff,
researching computational approaches to urban problems.
5GUK, ACE-CSR, REPHRAIN, STAI CDT, UK-TAS-Hub and Node, and CUSP London are all
high-profile activities, establishing King’s as a UK leader and coordinator of research in 5G
Technologies, AI/Autonomous Systems, Safety & Trust, and Urban informatics.
The unit’s success is further highlighted by excelling in achieving the following four targets set in
REF2014: increasing (i) cross-cutting project-funding, (ii) engagement with non-academic partners
and (iii) collaboration with other university departments, and (iv) improving facilities.
Increasing cross-cutting research. UoA11’s research income has increased by 35% compared
to the REF2014 period (from £2,095K to £2,826K p.a.). This upward funding trajectory will further
accelerate with future contributions from the 12 recently hired early career lecturers. Many projects
cut across UoA11, also often including investigators from other units at King’s and other academic
institutions, e.g., the CONSULT, DADD, PLEAD, RESET and THuMP projects (see Section 3.1) as
well as the above mentioned 5GUK, ACE-CSR, REPHRAIN, STAI CDT, UK-TAS-Hub and CUSP
London. The development of funding bids for such initiatives is encouraged and facilitated by the
unit’s hubs, which bring together potential research collaborators from across the university, and is
further supported by the King’s Together scheme for multi-disciplinary research (see Section 4.2).
Engagement with non-academic partners. A census of non-academic partners on the unit’s
research projects exceeds 100 (see Section 3). Closer engagement with industry led to doubling
the direct industrial funding from £138K per year (6.5% of income) in REF2014 to £284K per year
(10% of income) in REF2021. The strong external relationships and the impact strategy (see
Section 1.5) led to substantial impact activities, with the main success stories captured in the
submitted Impact Case Studies (ICSs):
 ICS1 Research on automated planning and plan-execution helped Schlumberger to become
      the world leader in drilling automation, bringing improvements in efficiency, consistency
      and safety, resulting in savings estimated at $150M p.a.
 ICS2 Research on data provenance and collaborations with Imosphere Ltd (a software
      company for the healthcare sector) and the ICO led to establishing provenance as an
      essential function of IT systems, which provides a trusted account of data processing.
 ICS3 Research on designing robot manipulators and control algorithms provided the basis for
      two companies, Movendo and AiTreat, to commercialise robotic therapy devices, now
      used in more than 100 clinics worldwide.
 ICS4 Fundamental research on 5G telecommunication systems, in collaboration with major
      companies (including Ericsson and Konica Minolta), contributed to development of 5G
      standards.
Further examples of UoA11 impactful research activities involving non-academic partners include:
collaboration with the House of Commons Library on understanding and improving digital citizen
engagement (Sastry); development of programming environments for pre-university computer
science education, supported by £737K funding from Oracle and used by 3 million users annually
(Kölling); and design of interventions for emotion regulation in children, with a US developer
investing $800K to commercialise the prototype (Slovak).

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UoA11 excelled in expanding the breadth of collaboration with other university departments,
as highlighted in Table 2 (showing only the major projects and research initiatives). For
comparison, the unit’s collaborations within King’s during the REF2014 period were confined to
Digital Humanities, War Studies and Medical Schools.

              Business     Digital                                                Policy      War
                                    Geography   IOPPN       Law       FOLSM
               School    Humanities                                              Institute   Studies
 ACE-CSR                     x                                                                  x
 CONSULT                     x                                           x                      x
 CUSP L.                               x          x                                 x
 DADD                        x
 REPHRAIN                    x                                x                     x
 RESET                                 x
 THUMP           x                                            x
 UK-TAS-Hub      x           x                                x          x          x           x

Table 2. Key collaborations between UoA11 and other units at King’s (IOPPN: Institute of
Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience; FOLSM: Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine).

                                              The target of improving facilities was exceeded due
                                              to two major developments.
                                              (i) In 2017, the whole DoI moved to Bush House, a
                                              historic building complex, pictured on left, acquired by
                                              King’s in 2015 and modernised to state-of-the-art
                                              academic accommodation at a cost of £8M for the
                                              space occupied by Informatics. The move created a
                                              strong sense of community within the unit and
                                              facilitated closer links with other university units
                                              relocated there.
                                              (ii) With investment of £7M, new hardware and
software labs were opened in 2019 for the CTR and CORE groups. The university invested a
further £45M for larger engineering teaching and research labs (construction commenced in
summer 2019), which will facilitate further research collaboration between engineering and
informatics around and beyond telecommunications and robotics.

1.3 Unit’s research structure and management
UoA11 has structured its committees to coordinate research and impact activities, seek inputs from
and provide information to its membership, oversee its PhD programme and link with the faculty
and university management and support structures. Research activities are conducted within the
framework of groups and hubs (Figure 1). Groups, based around common scientific areas, are
core components of the formal management structure of the unit. Hubs provide a less formal,
thematic virtual clustering of researchers from all parts of the unit and are open to researchers from
other departments. Coordinated by Hub Champions, hubs focus on societal challenges, which
often require expertise and ideas from multiple sub-disciplines. Hubs encourage and support
exploration of new collaborations between research groups, across the university, and with
external partners, with a view to developing a strong impact culture.
Each group is allocated a budget (UoA11 total £74K in 2019-20) to support research activities
outside funded projects, e.g. research networking or organisation of thematic workshops. Each hub
has a budget for networking activities (total £20K in 2019-20).




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                     Figure 2: DoI Research management and support structure.

Figure 2 illustrates the structure of DoI research management and support. The Head of
Department (Moreau) is assisted by deputies for Education and Research. The Informatics
Strategy Group considers key departmental plans, such as directions for academic recruitment.
The Departmental Research Committee coordinates support for, and monitoring of, research
activities. The Hub Champions Group focusses on mapping out new initiatives and coordination
between hubs. All matters related to PGR programmes and students are coordinated by the
Departmental PGR Oversight Committee. The remit of the Departmental Diversity and Inclusion
Committee includes coordination and oversight of the D&I agenda of the Research and PGR
committees.

1.4 Research groups
UoA11 comprises 8 research groups, led by Heads of Groups, half of whom are women.
Algorithms and Data Analysis (ADA, Head: Iliopoulos) has interests ranging from theoretical
computational complexity to machine learning for computer vision and data-driven solutions for
operational research, digital privacy and health.
Cybersecurity (CYS, Head: Viganò) addresses problems of security and privacy breaches and
loss of trust in computing processes through: (i) systems, (ii) formal verification and testing, (iii)
provenance, ethics, trust, explainability and human factors.
Distributed Artificial Intelligence (DAI, Head: Polukarov) explores social and technological contexts
of interacting intelligent entities, including agent-based simulation, provenance, norms, trust and
reputation.
Human Centred Computing (HCC, Head: Borgo) is concerned with design and evaluation of
computing systems for complex human interaction, focussing on computer graphics, data
visualisation, human-computer interaction and natural language processing.




                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Reasoning and Planning (RAP, Head: Modgil) researches symbolic models for reasoning involving
argumentation, knowledge representation and planning, and the combination of reasoning,
planning and machine learning approaches.
Software Systems (SSY, Head: Chockler) addresses modelling, design and engineering of
software systems, automated reasoning about system properties, and mathematical foundations of
modelling computing systems.
Centre for Robotics Research (CORE, Coordinator: Dai) works on innovating robot-centric
approaches to critical challenges faced by society, with high-fidelity sensing, high-dextrous
manipulation, control and mechanism design.
Centre for Telecommunications Research (CTR, Head: Mahmoodi) is a leader in
telecommunications, data & information processing, and multimedia and device technologies,
recognised particularly for research and innovation in 5G and increasingly 6G.

1.5 Strategy and arrangements for enabling impact
The main principle underlying King’s research strategy is to strive for the highest research quality
as well as high external impact to address global challenges and meet societal needs. To enable
high impact, a combination of unit, faculty and university level mechanisms are used to create an
environment for discovering, developing and exploiting inter-disciplinary research opportunities.
UoA11’s strategy defines a platform of research groups and hubs to enable development of, or
connecting to, high-profile impactful activities (shown in Figure 3 as a third dimension to the unit’s
research environment). This is further amplified by creating a culture of impact, promoted by the
Research Committee and the Hub Champions Group through discussions of potential impact of
possible major funding bids. Since its launch in 2017, this strategy has already led to four
substantial activities with external national recognition (STAI CDT, UK-TAS-Hub, REPHRAIN and
Cybersecurity ACE-CSR) and to effective integration with CUSP London.




                        Figure 3: Impactful activities facilitated by the hubs.
Part time appointments are used by UoA11 to strengthen links with industry and explore impact
opportunities. CUSP London Deputy Director (Quercia, Nokia-Bell-Labs, part-time in UoA11)
manages the centre’s relations with partners. RAEng Visiting Professor (Lees, IT consultant) links
UoA11 with the software-development sector and also brings to the unit his expertise on software
performance engineering.
Faculty and university support for enabling impact. The EPSRC Impact Acceleration
Account (IAA), managed by NMES (see Section 2.5) and the King’s Together scheme (see
Section 4.2) provide internal competitive funding for impact generation activities. The NMES
Research Impact Lead – a full-time administrative post within the Faculty Research Development


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Team – provides support for impact activities, including recording, evaluating and reporting impact
and assisting in preparation of impact-generation proposals.

1.6 Research integrity and open research
King’s has enhanced its approach to Research Integrity during the REF2021 period, updating,
improving and clarifying procedures. A Research Integrity Champion within NMES and Research
Integrity Advisors (RIAs) embedded in units promote research integrity values, provide a point of
contact for researchers with queries or concerns and coordinate with the university Research
Governance Office the preparation of information and training.
The university, committed to high ethical standards in research, requires that its researchers
consider and address issues such as management of risk, protection of confidentiality and the
process of informed consent. Ethical clearance is required for all projects with primary data
collection involving human participants (55 projects in UoA11 over the period), e.g. user studies in
HCC and experimental evaluations of privacy protocols in CYS. The best practice on research
ethics is spread by the RIAs and by UoA11 academics who sit on a university Research Ethics
Subcommittee.
UoA11 puts emphasis on making research outcomes accessible to other researchers. In addition
to the REF accessibility requirements, managed through the institutional PURE repository,
research data is managed through the Library, according to data management plans defined by the
researchers. King’s is an institutional member of the UK Reproducibility Network.
UoA11 participates in promoting open science, for example, through the coordination of the EC-
funded ACTION project (Simperl), which develops digital infrastructure for helping citizen
scientists set up and manage projects, share data openly and comply with Responsible Research
and Innovation practices.

1.7 Strategic aims and goals for research and impact for the next 5 years
UoA11 aims to further raise its status as a leading international centre for research in
computational systems that symbiotically integrate with society and are fit for purpose by design,
influencing the advancement of the Informatics discipline nationally and internationally. As UoA11
has developed a strong reputation in safe and trustworthy AI, it now seeks to broaden its expertise
and recognition in complementary areas to support its ambitious multi-disciplinary agenda on
human-centred and data-driven systems requiring contribution from all sub-disciplines of
Informatics and beyond. Concrete targets have been identified.
 1. Developing critical mass in strategic and complementary areas
    While ensuring a balanced growth across sub-disciplines, particular areas of expansion
    include vision, natural language processing, systems fundamentals, and human-system
    interaction. The unit’s co-developed research and education strategies will shape expansion
    and recruitment in a financially sustainable way, with the ambition of substantially growing
    headcount (up to 50%) over the period.
 2. Institution-wide coordination of AI research
    UoA11 will contribute leadership and expertise to a new King’s-wide AI institute (to be
    launched in 2021), aiming to coordinate AI research, enterprise and impact across the whole
    institution. This includes developing synergies between the King’s £16M medical AI centre
    and King’s CDTs in AI-related topics (EPSRC-funded Smart Medical Imaging, UKRI-funded
    STAI and King’s-funded DRIVE-Health), and leveraging facilities such as the new Cambridge-
    1 supercomputer based at Guy’s and St-Thomas’ Hospitals.

 3. Development of research leaders
    Building on recent fellowship successes (2019 EPSRC Fellowship renewal for Tratt, 2020
    UKRI Future Leader Fellowship for Slovak) and the NMES network of fellows, UoA11’s
    ambition is to support 5-10 fellows. Likewise, the ambition is to develop research leaders able
    to front significant national activities and to be in a position to lead 1-2 programme grants (or
    equivalent).

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Promoting research with strong impact
    UoA11 will increase the scope, reach and significance of the impact of its research, targeting
    various types of impact, including impact on policy. A culture of “Informatics Stories”
    publicising the unit’s research successes will be developed, with the appropriate resourcing
    (both staff and processes) to support the tracking of evidence. The pedestrianisation of the
    Strand, beginning in 2021, places Bush House at the centre of A Global Creative and Cultural
    Quarter, which UoA11 will exploit to showcase its research.
 5. Increasing engagement with industry
Building on its experience of working with industry gained in the STAI CDT, UK-TAS-Hub and
REPHRAIN, strengthening its links with the Informatics Industry Advisory Board, and leveraging
the new role of NMES Vice Dean for Enterprise and Engagement and the corresponding
departmental role, UoA11 will seek to develop strategic relationships with 1 or 2 partners over the
period.

 2. People
2.1 Staffing strategy and academic recruitment
King’s decision in 2016 to invest strategically in science and technology allowed UoA11 to draw up
expansion plans and intensify recruitment of new academic staff. The principles of UoA11’s
recruitment strategy are: (i) to appoint a diverse set of researchers with an excellent research
record for the stage of their career and clear promise for further development; (ii) to support the
growth of the unit in the identified research directions; and (iii) to ensure a balance between junior
academics starting their career as independent researchers, and senior academics who can
provide research leadership and mentor other staff.
In 2014–2020, UoA11 made 22 appointments (including 8 women) to academic posts with
teaching and research responsibilities: 13 lecturers, 4 senior lecturers/readers, and 5
professors. Three were recruited internationally (2 USA, 1 France) and 60% have had past
research positions in international institutions. The appointments were in the areas of AI
(Cocarascu, Criado, Malizia, Moreau), web computing (Simperl), cybersecurity and data
security (Cavallaro, Pierazzi, Suarez, Such), data science (Letsios, Loukides, Mallmann-
Trenn, Shi), human centred computing (Abdul-Rahman, Borgo, Slovak, Yannakoudakis),
game theory (de Keizer, Polukarov, Ventre), computational biology (Bentley) and software
systems (Kölling). Symbol  indicates Early Career Lecturers at the time of appointment (less than
4 years as independent researchers).

2.2 Support for Early Career Lecturers (ECL)
UoA11 aims to develop ECLs into successful academics. This begins with their appointment with
appropriate start-up packages, a rigorous, fair and encouraging probation process, adjusted
workloads and a supportive environment.
Start-up. ECLs receive a start-up fund to support their research endeavours until external research
funding is secured. Such funds are normally used for additional research equipment, attending
conferences, visiting research collaborators, or setting up small exploratory research projects. The
total of £364K start-up funds in UoA11 during the REF2021 period included £154K for ECLs. In
addition to this, 18 PhD studentships were committed to new starters since 2017, including 9
studentships for ECLs.
Workload reduction. To help new starters bootstrap their research over their 3-year probation,
their initial teaching and administrative loads are reduced to 50% of a normal load, gradually
increasing to 100% by the end of probation. This creates extra time to build up independent
research, prepare publications and develop initial research proposals.
Mentoring and training. The unit and the university provide mentoring and training support for
new lecturers. The mentoring scheme includes advice and assistance on developing publications
and proposals, while the unit also offers internal review of draft proposals. The training includes
grant-development sessions, normally taken within the first year of probation. The probation


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
process also offers a mechanism to periodically discuss, set and review objectives with a probation
mentor, to ensure ECLs develop into successful academics.
Support Network. ECLs in DoI form a support network with informal monthly meetings to share
best practice, to learn from each other and to identify common issues for departmental
consideration. This network, initially established by the Department, is now run by the ECLs
themselves, who set the agenda and format of meetings.

2.3 Workload
DoI staff are typically involved in research, education and administration. To address both
educational and research aspirations, the Department also employs staff on the Academic
Education Pathway (AEP), reaching 8 AEP lecturers in post on 31/7/2020 with teaching and
related administration as their main responsibilities.
Transparent Workload. A workload allocation model capturing assigned duties is published in the
Department and informs all discussions and decisions about load and duties. Explicit
documentation sets load expectations for staff.
Reduced Workload. Load is reduced not only for ECLs but also for staff returning from extended
leave (e.g. parental leave or sickness). Load can also be reduced to support staff who have
secured fellowships or are PIs of substantial grants.

2.4 Staff development
Whilst annual processes for performance development review (PDR), pay recognition, promotion
and study leave are set by the university, UoA11 strives to encourage all staff to develop to their
full potential and supports them through training, mentoring, reviews and promotion advice.
PDR Process. UoA11 assigns each staff member a PDR reviewer who helps identify individual
training needs, feeds into the recognition-pay process, and offers discussions of longer-term career
plans and aspirations, including promotions. The PDR process includes setting annual research
objectives, in terms of publications and grant submissions, and further feedback and
encouragement from the Head of Department, who reviews all PDR documents.
Promotions. As part of its Athena Swan Bronze award, UoA11 introduced an Informatics
Promotions Panel to provide informal feedback on draft promotion applications, to assign a senior
academic to each applicant to help prepare the final application, and to identify staff on the cusp of
potential promotion. A particular strength of this process is to identify and support potential women
and minority applicants, or other staff, who might lack confidence to apply. Internal promotions in
UoA11 in the REF2021 period included 9 to Senior Lecturer (2 women), 6 to Reader (2 women)
and 1 to Professor.
Mentoring. UoA11 runs its own mentoring scheme through which staff can elect to be paired with
an informal mentor. The nature of the mentoring process is determined by the individuals and can
vary from casual discussions to career progression advice. An incentive scheme for mentors and
mentees is provided and elements of training are available to mentors.
Training. UoA11 supports staff by recommending them for university training programmes. The
Emerging Leaders Programme provides PIs and team leaders with core leadership skills
(participants: Miles 2016/17, Black 2017/18, Zschaler 2019/20). The Leading Researcher
Programme provides professorial-level participants with targeted development, enabling
accelerated career progression (participants: Cavallaro 2018/19, Such 2019/20). The recent
Emerging Research Programme targets earlier stage researchers (participants: Abdul-Rahman
2020/21). The Strategic Leadership Programme focuses on the development of staff in senior roles
(participants: Vigano 2016/17, Kölling and Moreau 2017/18).
NMES Network of Fellows (current and recent holders of advanced fellowships and major single
investigator awards) develops activities to further the advance of network members as well as to
inspire, support and advise other colleagues, creating a stronger, more vibrant research
community within the Faculty, benefitting the UoA11 staff.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Study Leave. Every member of academic staff is entitled to apply for study leave after 6 years in
post. UoA11 prioritises applications with strong research plans, includes considerations of equality
and diversity and undertakes a post-leave review. In the REF2021 period, 18 academics, including
5 women, were granted one-year study leave (6 professors, 4 readers, 7 senior lecturers, 1
lecturer).

2.5 Support for obtaining external research funding and developing impact
UoA11 and NMES offer personalised support to prospective PIs in their grant proposal
development endeavours.
Internal peer review. UoA11’s Director of Research Quality leads internal peer-reviews of grant
proposals for competitive external funding. A review panel of 3-5 academics and a member of
research development staff provide the proposers with constructive feedback. Earlier versions of
proposals, starting with 1-page outlines, are also reviewed, in particular to support ECLs.
Proposers are also offered help with preparing rebuttals to reviewer comments, and mock
interviews when interviews are part of the application process.
Training programme. NMES has launched a 12-week training programme for developing grant
proposals. By the end of the programme, each participant should have a completed proposal ready
for submission. Eight UoA11 staff participate in this programme in 2020/21.
Faculty support. Investing significantly over the past few years in professional services, NMES
now provides a team of 8 full-time staff focussed on supporting research. New appointments
include a Faculty Research Manager, Faculty Research Coordinator, Research Development
Manager and a dedicated Departmental Research Officer in each NMES department. Further
expansion of the faculty research support team is planned for 2020/21, with an additional full-time
Senior Research Officer and a second Research Development Manager.
The IAA scheme at King’s provides longer-term support for achieving research impact. Managed
by NMES, IAA funding is awarded as ‘Advancing Impact’ grants (up to £60K) for supporting proof-
of-concept work and knowledge transfer, or ‘Rapid Access’ grants (up to £10K) for shorter-term
activities promising immediate impact. IAA funding has been used strategically to support the ICSs,
but also to nurture impact broadly across NMES. UoA11 received £304K IAA funding in 2015-
2020, including funding for projects: “Deployment of Expressive Continuous Numeric Planners in
Large Scale Applications” (Amanda Coles) in collaboration with Schlumberger, which contributed
to ICS1; and “Provenance based explanations” (Moreau) in collaboration with the ICO, which
contributed to ICS2. The unit’s IAA grants supporting broader impact included “KCL planning
technologies on board the international space station” (Magazzeni) in collaboration with NASA,
and “Blockchains and nuclear non-proliferation” (McBurney), which involved confidential
discussions with nuclear verification experts and led to McBurney’s invited seminar on the topic to
the Directorate of Safeguards at the IAEA (Vienna, 4/2018).
King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowships (6-9 each year in UoA11) provide funding for
summer internships with the dual aim of integrating research and teaching, and helping academics
explore new ideas for future proposals.
Incentivisation. An important aspect of the promotion process is to recognise and reward staff for
high quality research and achieving impact. Both aspects are closely reviewed at all stages of the
process. UoA11 provides project investigators with funding (£47K in 2019-20) in proportion to
overheads generated to enable exploration of new research possibilities beyond currently funded
projects for subsequent grant proposals.
2.6 Career development support for post-doctoral researchers
UoA11 brings together its community of post-doctoral research assistants (PDRAs) – 30 to 40
researchers at any given time during the REF period – by establishing a departmental PDRA Tutor
to assist them in their ambition to become independent researchers. PDRAs are integrated within
research groups and are represented on the departmental Research Committee.
The PDRA Tutor provides advice and coordination for PDRAs, communicates the development
opportunities available at faculty and university levels and considers any issues which may hinder

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
their work. The PDRA Tutor also reviews the PDRA’s PDR documents to identify emerging themes
and agrees appropriate actions with the Informatics Strategy Group; an example of action is
provision of teaching opportunities, in response to a desire by PDRAs to develop wider academic
experience.
Research Staff Development. The Centre for Research Staff Development (CRSD), launched in
April 2016, is a crucial element of King’s commitment to delivering the principles of the Concordat
to Support the Career Development of Researchers. CRSD provides university-level professional
development support for research staff to achieve their potential before, during and after their time
at King’s, with active support from the most senior staff in the university. The support includes
career advice, relevant courses and workshops (e.g. leadership training workshops for research
staff) and providing information about opportunities and general developments in the Higher
Education sector. The Centre’s overarching objective is to facilitate and support an active and
engaged research staff community where researchers can provide input into policies and initiatives
at King’s and nationally.

2.7 PGR students
UoA11 complements the institutional regulatory setup with processes to (i) ensure that students
are admitted with the right qualifications and experience, and matched to supervisors with similar
expertise and enthusiasm; (ii) monitor student progress and ensure that remedial actions and
adequate support are provided promptly to both students and supervisors, if necessary; (iii)
oversee the departmental PhD programme in a way that is consistent, accountable, transparent
and fair to all; (iv) provide personal support via a PGR Tutor; and (v) offer a thriving research
environment for development of student skills and career plans.
In 2019/20, DoI had 160 PGR students, of whom 30% were women. During the REF2021 period,
125 doctoral degrees were awarded in UoA11.
Supervision team. Each PGR student has at least two academic supervisors. All supervisors are
required to complete supervisory training and take refresher training at least every five years to
ensure that they provide high quality support.
Progression. All students have their study progress and training needs reviewed every six
months. Two major progress assessments are the UoA11-specific 9-month assessment and the
university-wide 18-month (MPhil-to-PhD upgrade) assessments, both based on a technical report
and viva with a panel including the supervisory team and an independent assessor.
PGR Tutoring and SSLC. Research students are supported by the departmental PGR Tutor, who
provides pastoral advice and helps resolve any challenges that may affect students’ work. Issues
wider than individual concerns are discussed within the departmental Staff-Student Liaison
Committee for PGR students, held once per term and chaired by the PGR Tutor.
Oversight. UoA11 introduced the PGR Oversight Committee (PGR-OC) which coordinates all
activities (admissions, progressions, funding) related to PGR students. The committee meets
monthly to provide prompt feedback on students’ progress, consider offers for entry to the PhD
programme and for studentships, and monitor departmental PGR processes.
Environment. Each PGR student participates in research activities of the group of their main
supervisor, including seminars and discussions with visitors. Research groups form the immediate
communities for PGR students, where they learn from others and are encouraged to discuss and
present their own work. PGR students in the same research group are normally co-located in the
same open-plan office space to facilitate collaboration and peer support.
Training. At the university level, the Centre for Doctoral Studies supports PGR students by
offering training courses for developing transferable academic skills, providing networking
opportunities and creating a community environment for all research students.
Entrepreneurship. Innovative training, designed by King’s Entrepreneurship Institute, such as
Entrepreneurial Mindset, is open to PGR students and research staff across King’s. The
programme helps participants develop their skills as innovators, critical thinkers and collaborators,
enhancing their future career prospects. The programme is compulsory for students from the STAI

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CDT and open to other UKRI funded students. The first cohort (2019-20) consisted of 12 UoA11
students.
RTSG funding. UoA11 PGR students are strongly encouraged to write research papers for
presentation at external workshops and conferences. RTSG funding (Research Training Support
Grant) is available for all students (irrespective of the source of their funding) to cover and support
conference attendance and other research activities.
Admissions. The departmental PhD admissions tutor coordinates the evaluation of applications
and ensures that the admissions process is conducted according to university regulations,
departmental guidelines and EDI best practice. Applicants considered for entry are interviewed by
two academic staff (or three, if a studentship is considered). PGR-OC makes final decisions on
admission and studentship offers.
Funding. The main sources of funding for PGR students in UoA11 are departmental PhD
studentships, funded by EPSRC DTP and NMES (8-12 studentships each year), and the STAI
CDT. Other available PhD funding schemes include King’s-China Scholarship Council
studentships, with 6 to 9 offers in UoA11 each year.

2.8 STAI CDT
Led by King’s College London (Luck – Director, Black, Criado, Rodrigues) in collaboration with
Imperial College London, the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in Safe and Trusted AI focusses
on the use of symbolic AI techniques for ensuring the safety and trustworthiness of AI systems.
This CDT offers 8 studentships per year at King’s and the first cohort started in October 2019. A
key aspect of the CDT is engagement with 20 non-academic partners offering a range of problems
and data sets to drive the research and opportunities of placements for students.

2.9 Equality, Diversity, Inclusion (EDI)
Both King’s College London and DoI have Athena Swan (AS) Bronze Awards, with the
departmental award obtained in 2017 (following a faculty-level award in 2014) and reconfirmed in
2020 (after the creation of the new Department of Engineering). DoI is implementing its Athena
Swan action plan and is now working towards an application for the silver award. The unit’s EDI
agenda is embedded within the wider university framework of EDI policies and practices, as
described in the REF5a document.
UoA11 follows university staffing policies on equality, diversity, age, sexual orientation and
disability, which aim to maintain an inclusive environment where all individuals are valued and able
to succeed. These policies include EDI requirements and recommendations for the appointment
processes, e.g. for the composition of interview panels. All UoA11 recruitment panels for academic
positions during the REF period have included at least one woman, and panel members must first
take unconscious bias training. Similar arrangements are required for interview panels for
postdoctoral research positions and for applicants to PhD programmes.
In accordance with its AS action plan, UoA11 has introduced a number of practices to promote a
more inclusive and diverse research environment. Key examples are:
  The departmental D&I committee, chaired by two D&I Champions, plays a central role in DoI
     with membership including the Head of Department and the chairs of all main departmental
     committees.
  D&I Champions are recognised as major departmental roles and ex officio members of the
     Informatics Strategy Group (ISG). EDI is a standing agenda item on the monthly meetings of
     ISG.
  The departmental Workload Allocation Model is based on equality, fairness and transparency
     principles. During the REF period, 3 members of staff who were on maternity leaves
     benefitted from workload reduction (see Section 2.3).
  Equality, diversity and inclusion are considered in the process of allocating shared offices.
     The unit also provides customised office furniture (e.g. specialty adjustable desks) for those
     who require them for medical reasons.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    In consideration of staff well-being, the department discouraged sending work emails out-of-
     hours and organising meetings on Fridays during the pandemic.
The following table shows progress achieved during the REF2021 period in improving gender
balance in UoA11.

                                                                    Women (All)         %
         REF2014                                                           10 (46) 21.7%
         Academic recruitment in 2014-2020                                  8 (22) 36.4%
         REF2021                                                           16 (50) 32.0%
         Heads of Group and Hub Champions                                   5 (14) 35.7%
         Sector national average (2019/20)                                           23.1%
                                Table 3. Gender balance in UoA11.

UoA11 staff engage in national and international EDI initiatives. Criado gave a talk about gender
discrimination in AI at the 2018 EU Gender Summit and was a panellist at a meeting of the BCS
Women in Technology network. Borgo has been involved in ‘Women in HPC’, which aims to
improve equality, diversity and inclusion in High Performance Computing. Simperl gave a talk at a
UK’s ACM-W professional chapter.
NMES organises the annual Women in Science Week to celebrate women working in science,
highlight the issues surrounding under-representation of women in STEM subjects and
promote gender equality as a relevant and important topic for all. Ada Lovelace Day is the flagship
event of the week and consists of inspirational talks from a wide variety of speakers. NMES also
operates a system of flexible working arrangements for staff with caring commitments. In 2019/20,
7 UoA11 staff (including 2 women) had formal flexible working arrangements.
Various university-wide EDI initiatives are presented in the institutional-level environment
statement. These include the Race Equality at King’s hub, ‘Proudly King’s’ LGBTQ+ staff network,
the NEST network supporting staff with parental or caring responsibilities, ‘Access King’s’ disability
inclusion network, and King’s Parents and Carers Fund.
While preparing the REF submission, UoA11 followed the university’s REF2021 Code of Practice,
further enhancing some of the EDI provisions. For example, all UoA11 staff were involved in
reviewing potential REF outputs and their feedback was considered by the unit’s REF Output
Selection Group. This 11-member group was selected to represent all research groups, various
seniority levels and the UoA11 gender balance. At all phases of the output selection process, the
outputs of those with 1 or 4-5 selected papers were particularly closely scrutinised to avoid under-
or over-representation. A particular focus was also placed on the gender balance of the selection.
Where decisions were needed between outputs evaluated as being of similar quality, the unit
followed the principle of improving the gender balance of the overall selection. All UoA11 staff were
regularly informed about REF processes and the outcomes of various phases of output selection.
Looking beyond 2020, UoA11 will continue expanding its EDI agenda and activities. In particular,
while the gender balance in UoA11 is now significantly better than the national average, the unit
will continue with the actions set out in the 2017 Athena Swan application to achieve further
improvements. In particular, through its promotions panel, the unit will aim to improve gender
balance at more senior academic grades, where women remain more under-represented.

2.10 Supporting staff, researchers and PGR students during COVID-19 pandemic
UoA11 has shown resilience and resolve when facing the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Most research projects continued with only minor adjustments of schedules, but some user
evaluation studies had to be postponed or re-designed.
The unit was very effective in switching all communication online. Regular staff meetings, research
group meetings, and various interest group meetings provided support and a sense of community,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
often surpassing the pre-COVID experience. PGR students were offered laptops on loan if needed,
the university extended some PGR assessment deadlines, and the faculty funded extensions to
studentships, if research progress was affected by lockdowns. The university also put in place
special arrangements for online PhD vivas, and examiners were asked to consider the student’s
Covid19 impact statement (if submitted with the thesis) whilst always upholding the academic
requirements for a research degree award.
The university has implemented detailed processes for returning to work on campus, which
consider individual staff circumstances.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
3.1 Income
For the REF2021 period, the unit’s research income was £19.8M in total (for 48.5 FTE), a yearly
increase of 35% compared to REF2014, or a yearly increase of 28% per FTE. This total included
industrial funding of £2.0M, which doubled, p.a., compared to REF2014. This performance should
be understood in light of the high number (12) of ECLs appointed during the period.




The charts above illustrate the distribution of research spend during the REF period according to
funder and area of research. The highlights below (and throughout the document) refer to all
funding secured during the REF2021 period, including new projects (where spend does not yet
show in the charts) to indicate the upward trajectory and shift of the UoA11 research focus. Each
quoted value (here and in Section 1) is the amount committed to King’s by the main funder.
In Artificial Intelligence, funded projects have focused on three principal areas: fundamentals of AI,
AI for business performance, and explainability discrimination and trust in AI. CONSULT (Modgil,
EPSRC, £1,381K) won the best demo award at the Human Agent Interaction 2018 conference for
its argumentation techniques to help patients suffering from chronic diseases self-manage their
treatment. ERGO and ADE (Coles, EU, £487K) contributed, with GMV Aerospace and Defence, AI
planning technologies for space robotics towards European capabilities for orbital maintenance
and planetary exploration. DADD (Such, EPSRC, £654K) researches digital discrimination in
collaboration with Google, while THuMP and PLEAD (Moreau, EPSRC, £1,361K) advance the
state-of-the-art in explainable AI and provenance-based explainability with Schlumberger, Save the
Children, Experian, Roke Manor and Southampton City Council. The STAI CDT and the UK-TAS-
Hub (see Section 1.2) also contribute to this area.
Funded projects in Programming Languages and Software Engineering have focused on language
runtimes, software engineering methodologies and programming environments. A fellowship on
tooling to support programming language compositions (LECTURE  Tratt, EPSRC, £953K) led to
talks at Facebook and Oracle, which in turn were instrumental in supporting a follow-up fellowship
extension on performance of virtual machines with Intel and Mozilla Foundation (HAMLET  Tratt,
EPSRC, £923K). UoA11 leads a network to improve the state of the art in model-driven software
engineering with the Institute of Coding (MDE-Net  Zschaler, EPSRC, £463K). Oracle funding
                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supports the development of Greenfoot and BlueJ object-oriented programming environments
used by millions of learners (Kölling, Oracle, £737K).
In the area of Security, funded projects have focused on system security, secure AI and online
threats to individuals. Under the ACE-CSR umbrella, illustrative projects include: an investigation of
the modularity of virtual machines to improve security, with ARM and Shopify (CapableVMs 
Tratt, EPSRC, £837K); the use of machine learning to detect malware on mobile devices with
McAfee Labs (MobSec  Cavallaro, EPSRC, £243K); and a study of attacks and protection of AI
assistants with Microsoft, Humley, Hospify and Mycroft (new project SAIS  Such, EPSRC,
£1,155K). Finally, REPHRAIN (Such, EPSRC, £618K) addresses tensions and imbalances
between benefits of the digital economy and the potential for harm through loss of privacy,
insecurity, and disinformation, with over 20 private and public partners.
Projects in Foundations of Computing have focused on algorithmic foundations, distributed ledgers
and computational models, and include development of algorithmic techniques for distributed
graph processes (EP/M005038/1  Cooper, EPSRC, £312K), design of trusted and transparent
voting systems using ledger technologies (VOLT  McBurney, EPSRC, £374K), and design of
novel algorithms for sequencing of molecular data and other big-data challenges (Iliopoulos,
Royal Society, £198K).
In the area of Web computing, funded projects have focused on citizen science and data-driven
innovation. ACTION (Simperl, EU, £420K) led by King’s with 10 partners develops a participatory
science toolkit against pollution. MediaFutures (Simperl, EU, £249K) builds on a long-established
collaboration with the Open Data Institute’s “Data-as-Culture” programme and addresses the
responsible and innovative use of the Web, while EUhubs4data (Simperl, EU, £170K) investigates
techniques to federate the data services of 12 hubs and 60 SMEs in Europe.
Funded Telecommunications projects have focused on fundamentals and applications of 5G.
Besides the world-first 5G testbed discussed in Section 1.2 (5GUK  Dohler, DCMS, £3M), other
projects focus on designing advanced physical and upper layer techniques (SOLDER  Aghvami,
EU, £320K), 5G applications to the automotive sector (5GCAR  Mahmoodi, EU, £392K),
sustainable energy (VirtuWind  Mahmoodi, EU, £432K) and immersive video services for mobile
objects (PriMO-5G  Mahmoodi, EU, £278K).
In the area of Robotics, funded research has focused on manipulation, mechanism, control and
planning, and included projects on control strategies for manufacturing processes (Q-PreMan 
Dai, EPSRC, £312K), robotic mechanisms for innovative rehabilitation methods with AiTreat and
DIH Technologies (REST  Dai, EPSRC, £413K), and integration of machine learning and
automated planning for robot navigation (SQUIRREL  Dai, EU, £1,079K).
Funding and collaboration from industry. UoA11 has secured research funding directly from
industry, totalling £2.0M, and provided by: BT, Nominet UK, Ericsson, Bosch, Oracle, Vodafone,
Cisco and BAE Systems. The unit has also secured two InnovateUK projects with industry (£83K).
Further support from industry has come via collaborations within projects funded by UKRI, UK
government bodies or the EU, with over 100 industry and public sector partners.
UoA11 has actively supported part-time or secondment work in industry as a mechanism to
forge deeper collaborative links and potentially strong research impact. In 2016, Fox and Long
joined Schlumberger to oversee deployment of automated planning technology developed at
King’s, which resulted in ICS1. McBurney was Head of Technology Consulting at the Norton Rose
Fulbright law firm in 2018-2020, advising on AI technologies for the legal sector. Magazzeni, on
leave of absence during 2020-2021, is Executive Director at J.P. Morgan (JPM) AI Research,
exploring opportunities for impact in finance from his research on automated planning and
strengthening the partnership between JPM and the unit, including JPM staff delivering talks to the
unit’s PhD students, and one PhD student selected as a 2021 JPM PhD Fellow.
While academics individually maintain portfolios of external collaborators, UoA11 is also supported
by NMES roles of Vice-Dean for Enterprise and Engagement, programme manager for industry
partnerships and manager for industry internships.



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
Institutional Provision. Since 2013, NMES has contributed to core research computing
infrastructure – Rosalind – provided by King’s IT. This comprehensive research platform includes:
a High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, a private cloud for flexible, scalable development
environments, and very large, highly resilient storage for long term curation of research data.
To expand, modernise and increase flexibility of this platform, King’s has recently created a new
university-wide e-Research function, underpinned by an investment of £800K for a research data
storage platform and £1M for hardware refresh of Rosalind, and two new leadership roles, with
more engineering and support posts to follow in 2021. UoA11 plays an important role in advising
King’s IT on various aspects such as security (Such) and HPC (Rodrigues).
King’s library services have been evolving to focus on providing comprehensive and easy online
access to varied resources. All researchers have access to a broad range of journals and
bibliographic services, including electronic access to all major resources particularly relevant for
UoA11 (ACM, LNCS, IEEE, Science Direct). This access has been crucial during the pandemic.
Local provision. UoA11 benefits from the Rosalind HPC cluster for research on image
processing, systems security, NLP and AI technologies, allowing convenient integration of
dedicated computing hardware within a larger infrastructure. The facilities are advertised to new
starters through their offer letter, and routinely accessed by UoA11 researchers and PhD students.
New starters with specialised computing needs but without their own research funding yet, are
supported by further investment in a UoA11-dedicated facility with a mix of CPUs and GPUs, also
complemented by Cloud access for peak usage.
Resource sharing. The NMES Computing Support Team consists of 12 staff supporting research
50% of their time. Placing the core computing infrastructure and IT support at the faculty level
provides efficiency and flexibility. NMES increasingly operates multi-purpose laboratories wherever
possible, for instance in the £45M Strand investment for Engineering, and encourages the sharing
of resources as it promotes collaboration. This is routine for robotic-related research and 3-D
printing. Likewise, the recent £40M Nvidia Cambridge-1 supercomputer is being used as a further
mechanism for collaboration with the health faculties. Beyond King’s, examples of resource sharing
include STAI CDT students having access to HPC facilities at King’s and Imperial, the UK-TAS-
Hub deploying a cloud-based infrastructure to manage its research programmes across the UK,
and system security researchers sharing computing resources between King’s and Royal
Holloway.
Bush House. As mentioned in Section 1, DoI moved in 2017 to Bush House (BH) – a complex of
three Grade-II-listed buildings at Aldwych, London, which was acquired by King’s in 2015,
substantially enlarging the historic Strand campus. Researchers and PhD students occupy large
open-plan areas, typically co-located by research group. Dedicated social spaces were a key factor
in bringing the department together, facilitating interactions between staff and students. Sharing
the central BH building with the Business School and Entrepreneurship Institute helped with
starting new multidisciplinary collaborations.
To reflect the changing nature of its research with a large influx of new staff, UoA11 is setting up
experimental spaces, allowing HCC researchers to conduct user studies, CYS researchers to
safely experiment with malware detection and RAP researchers to investigate robot planning. With
an investment of £100K, two rooms have been designed as multi-purpose facilities (to encourage
cross-fertilisation between groups) including workstations to program robots such as the HSR
Robot donated by Toyota, sensors to detect movement of users and devices, and visualisation
equipment. (Work on the conversion of this space was postponed as premises were not accessible
during the pandemic.) CUSP London space in BH was equipped with a visualisation suite which
has been used to visualise data in collaboration with London partners.
Specialised facilities. To support the Systems Security Research Lab, an investment of £200K, in
the form of start-up grants, provided high-specification hardware (3 nodes x 2 CPUs x 26 cores,
>100Tb storage) for program analysis using machine learning. To allow CTR to demonstrate 5G
technology capabilities, an integrated system-level testbed platform was supported by institutional
investment of £250K. Dedicated server room space was upgraded with installation of 5G and 4G

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Core networks servers, with a new cabling network in the Strand campus for an indoor testbed
comprising Ericsson Radio Dots, and installation of outdoor antennas mounted using a new mast
on the roof.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaboration through Research hubs
UoA11 comprises 5 research hubs, led by Hub Champions, two of whom are women. Hubs are
intended to be agile, being terminated as activities dwindle, or spawned as new themes arise.
Hubs were set up to promote thematic collaborations, and the Hub Champion Group provides
lightweight coordination and oversight. Hubs’ actual organisation is left to their members, in order
to encourage bottom-up initiatives and a sense of belonging. Thus, hubs have evolved in distinct
ways, seizing opportunities in their respective area, as shown next.
The Finance hub (Champion: Ventre) is at the intersection of finance and computation, a sector
colloquially known as FinTech. The hub has established collaborations with the Department of
Mathematics and King’s Business School, and also with key financial institutions, including the
Financial Conduct Authority. It has a strong presence in the UK-TAS-Hub.
The Health hub (Champions: Curcin, Tsoka) bridges UoA11 activities with those in King’s health
faculties (Curcin is in the King’s School of Population Health and co-author of ICS2), as well the
Francis Crick Institute and Health Data Research UK London. Of note, the King’s DRIVE-Health
CDT (Co-Director: Curcin) was launched in 2020 with a first student supervised in UoA11 (Miles,
Zschaler).
The Security hub (Champion: Such) co-ordinates researchers from across the unit around
security, with a focus on information and cybersecurity. In collaboration with King’s War Studies
and Defence Studies departments, the hub led the successful EPSRC and NCSC ACE-CSR
accreditation which facilitates engagement with external stakeholders, including government
organisations, research funding agencies, and industry.
The Urban Living hub (Champion: Borgo) is strategically aligned with CUSP London (see
Section 4.3) and has developed partnerships with public and private stakeholders in London,
including the Greater London Authority, London Ambulance Service, Transport for London and
Westminster City Council.
The Trusted Autonomous Systems hub (Champions: Andrew Coles, Magazzeni) has actively
pursued major funding opportunities in this area, securing the UKRI STAI CDT and involvement in
UK-TAS-Hub and the TAS Governance node. These bring together a pool of researchers, PhD
students and many governmental and industry partners sharing interests in systems with
autonomous behaviour.

4.2 Multi-disciplinary Collaboration
In addition to hub-driven collaborations, UoA11 takes advantage of King’s status as a partner in the
Francis Crick Institute for Biomedical Research to create new opportunities for impactful
research. Bentley, placed at the Crick for 2018-2022, leads research on computational biology
(Crick investment of £2M) and builds collaborative bridges between UoA11 and the Crick. The first
success here is a collaboration with Zschaler on domain-specific formal languages for cellular
modelling, which contributed to the MDE-net (see Section 3) with the Crick as a network partner.
Two UoA11 staff spent year-long study leave at the Crick to expand their multidisciplinary research
(Steinhöfel, Tsoka).
The university-wide King’s Together (KT) scheme supports the development of innovative multi-
disciplinary collaborations. This key component of the King’s Research Strategy provides ‘seed
awards’ (up to £20K) for adventurous initiatives, and ‘substantial awards’ (up to £100K) for
innovative research in strategic areas with clear impact potential.
Since the KT launch in 2016, UoA11 staff have been Co-PIs in 12 KT projects (approximately
£300K: 11 seed awards, and 1 substantial award as junior partner). The unit’s Co-PIs included 4
women and 2 ECLs. A KT project “Remote sensing and machine learning to detect global dams
                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and associated reservoirs” (Shi) is a collaboration with the Department of Geography, which led to
subsequent external funding (RESET, CoI: Shi, EU, £670K). “Establishing an interdisciplinary
computing education research institute” (Kölling) helped initiate such an institute, promoting the
unit’s research on pre-university computing education, funded by Oracle. “Improving hospital
patient flow through performance modelling and agent-based simulation” (Zschaler, Miles), a
collaboration with St-Thomas Hospital, has led to a studentship award. “Towards a King’s institute
for artificial intelligence” (Luck) surveys King’s AI landscape, precursor of a planned AI Institute
(see Section 1.7).

4.3 Contribution to Economy and Society
CUSP London is a research centre (Director: Miles) formed in 2015 in alignment with King’s
London strategy as a joint initiative from King’s College London and the University of Warwick
under franchise from CUSP at New York University. CUSP London at King’s consists of 16
members from Informatics, Geography, Environmental Sciences and IOPPN (8 of whom are
submitted in UoA11). It has developed a collaborative network with businesses, local authorities
and government agencies to apply urban informatics and improve public health and wellbeing.
Building on CUSP-led training, high profile hackathons (e.g., with the London Ambulance Service),
MSc and PhD students projects, and tackling real city problems, CUSP has established itself as an
authoritative source of advice and policy guidance, as illustrated by advice provided by UoA11 staff
to the Greater London Authority’s City Data Analytics Board (Miles), Westminster City Council
Parenting Strategy (Slovak), the Police and Crime Plan of the London Mayor’s Office Advisory
Group (Miles), and Westminster and Kensington & Chelsea Councils’ data sharing (Simperl).
Collaboration with Ericsson aims to improve quality of life and work in society. Ericsson has
provided £100K p.a. to support UoA11 5G research spanning many fields including medicine,
education, gaming and culture. Projects within the Tactile Internet Laboratory include the potential
for remote superior-precision medical interventions. With the City of London, the world's first 5G
connected theatre performance was hosted in June 2018. Musicians from the Guildhall School of
Music and Drama performed in the old Roman Amphitheatre in tandem with pianist and UoA11
professor (Dohler) who was physically located in Berlin. The collaboration led to significant media
coverage, which Ericsson estimated as equivalent to marketing spend of approximately £120M
(see ICS4).
UoA11 contributed to articles and global-media programmes for a general audience, explaining
topical science and research issues. Abdul-Rahman, Cavallaro, Dai and Yannakoudakis
contributed to articles in Guardian, Daily Mail and New Scientist, while Dai, Dohler, Mahmoodi,
Miles and Sastry were interviewed for BBC programmes. Modgil contributed to a Guardian
podcast panel discussion on AI ethics and McBurney authored a series of articles on blockchain
and cryptocurrencies for Accounting and Business Magazine.
Opened in 2018, Science Gallery London connects art, science and health. Black advised for the
2020 season on AI, ethics and health, while Such collaborated on AI gender bias. Likewise, Borgo
sits on the advisory board for National Gallery X, a National Gallery organisation set out to create
new technology-based museum experiences.
UoA11 has contributed to the Royal Society scheme, Rapid Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic
(RAMP), part of the national COVID-19 response. As part of the Scottish COVID-19 Response
Consortium (SCRC), Borgo and Abdul-Rahman worked on a generic visualisation toolbox for
addressing the need for rapid observation of huge amounts of data.
Contributions from UoA11 staff to economy and society include the following engagements in
advisory groups for public and private institutions.
Aghvami: Expert Advisory Group for EU NetWorld-2020, Advisory Board of Advanced Wireless
Technology Group. Borgo: roundtables for the All-Party Parliamentary Groups on AI and Data
Analytics. Dohler: Cambridge Wireless Advisory Board 2018-2019, Ofcom Advisory Board.
Kölling: Board of Computing in Schools, BCS Academy of Computing. Luck: Scientiﬁc Advisory
Board at ContactEngine, scientiﬁc advisor to the Board of Aerogility Ltd. McBurney: Academic
Advisory Council of Financial Conduct Authority. Miles: City Data Analytics Board, Greater London


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Authority. Simperl: scientific advisor for the European Data Spaces initiative and European Data
Portal.
International Partnerships
The unit is involved in a significant number of EU projects, and in particular is leading ACTION, a
consortium of 10 partners concerned with crowdsourcing techniques (Simperl). The unit is also
active in the PLuS Alliance, a strategic partnership of King’s, Arizona State University and the
University of New South Wales to tackle global challenges. One example of funded PLuS Alliance
collaboration is a project on risk management for natural disasters such bush fires and flooding
(Steinhöfel, Vigano). UoA11 has further strengthened international connections by hosting in
2014-2020 almost 200 visitors, 70% of whom were international.

4.4 Contribution to and recognition by the research base
UoA11 academics actively contribute to the wider scientific community by reviewing grant
proposals submitted to various funding organisations, holding editorial roles for many scientific
journals, organising conferences and other major scientific meetings, and playing leading roles in
international scientific associations and frameworks. Such leading roles include membership of the
EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team (Dohler) and membership of the REF2021 Sub-panel 11
(Fernandez). The table below summarises contributions to key activities.

                        Journal editorial boards                    > 30
                        Chairing conferences                        > 40
                        Conference committees/organisation          > 600
                        Best paper awards                           > 23
                        Keynotes at conferences                     > 100

                   Table 4. UoA11 indicators of wider influence and recognition.
Journal editorship
UoA11 staff are on the Editorial Boards of more than 30 international journals, including the
following leading editorial roles.
Chockler: Editor-in-Chief, IET Software Journal. Dohler: Editor-in-Chief, Transactions on
Emerging Telecommunications Technologies; Editor-in-Chief, EAI Transactions on Internet of
Things. Luck: Co-Editor-in-Chief, Journal of Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems.
Mahmoodi: Executive Editor, Transactions on Emerging Telecommunications Technologies.
McBurney: Co-Editor-in-Chief, Knowledge Engineering Review. Rodrigues: Executive Editor,
Journal of Logic and Computation. Simperl: Co-Editor-in-Chief, Human Computation Journal;
Managing Editor, International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems. Tratt: Editor-
in-Chief, Journal of Object Technology (until 2016).
Leading roles at major international conferences
UoA11 staff have been involved in more than 600 programme, organising or steering committees
of international conferences and workshops, including chairing the following conferences.
Borgo: CGVC 2014, 2015. Cavallaro: ACM EuroSec 2020. Chockler: CAV 2018. Coles: ICAPS
2016. Criado: EUMAS 2016. Dohler: IEEE WCNC 2018 and WiMob 2015 Fernandez: CSL 2020.
Kurucz: AiML 2014. Mahmoodi: Network of the Future 2017. Modgil: COMMA 2018. Simperl:
ODBASE 2018, ISWC 2016. Tratt: DLS 2014. Urban: ITP 2015. Vigano: POST 2016.
UoA11 staff delivered more than 100 invited talks at international conferences and workshops,
including the following major conferences.
Aghvami: IEEE ISCC 2015, ICETE 2016. Dohler: IEEE IPCCC 2019, ICASSP 2019, PIMRC
2018. Fernandez: CiE 2014. Kölling: Koli Calling 2018, ISSEP 2014. Kurucz: TALC 2019. Long:
ICAPS 2019. Luck: AAMAS 2014, ICAIL 2015. Moreau: WEBIST 2020. Simperl: ODBASE 2019;
EC 2015 Innovate, Connect, Transform. Ventre: ADT 2017.


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Leading roles in international scientific associations
Black: Secretary of Board of Directors European Association for Multi-Agent Systems
(EURAMAS). Criado, Modgil: Chair of Board of Directors EURAMAS (at different times).
Fernandez: Executive Board member of the European Association for Computer Science Logic,
General Secretary of the Board of the European Association for Programming Languages and
Systems. Dohler: IEEE Communications Society’s ‘Strategic Planning’ and ‘Emerging
Technologies’ Committees. Kölling: Committee on European Computing Education. Simperl:
IEEE Special Technical Community on Human Computation. Yannakoudakis: Association for
Computational Linguistics SIG on Building Educational Applications.
Major honours and research distinction
UoA11 staff have been recognised for their world-leading research contributions. Prominent
examples include:
Dai: 2015 ASME Mechanisms and Robotics Award (for lifelong contribution); 2020 ASME award in
Machine Design. Fernandez: 2020 IEEE BigDataSecurity Award (for outstanding and sustained
research contributions for over 10 years). Kölling: inaugural ACM-SIGCSE ‘Test of Time’ award.
Simperl: in 2020 AMiner top 100 most influential scholars in knowledge engineering and in the
2020 AMiner ‘Women in AI’ list.
The unit includes fellows of major professional organisations and learned societies. RAEng:
Aghvami, Dohler; IEEE: Aghvami, Dai, Dohler, IET: Aghvami, Dohler, Moreau; BCS: Kölling,
Luck, Moreau, Simperl; IMechE: Dai; ASME: Dai; RSA: Dai, Dohler, McBurney; ATI:
Simperl (2018-20); EurAI: Luck.
Best paper awards
UoA11staff were awarded at least 23 best paper awards, including the following. Abdul-Rahman:
Vannevar Bush award JCDL 2017. Dai: IEEE ICAR 2018; Mechanism and Machine Theory 2018
Crossley Award. Dohler: IEEE Globecom 2014. Iliopoulos: SPIRE 2018. Modgil: AIJ 2014
Prominent Paper Award. Slovak: CHI 2017; CSCW 2018. Such: 2016 ACM Annual Best of
Computing. Suarez: ACM Internet Measurement Conference 2018. Urban: Thoralf Skolem (ten-
year test-of-time) award at CADE 2015. Zschaler: ICGT 2020.




                                                                                      Page 20
