Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: UoA7 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE OF THE UNIT

 Our UoA7 return comprises the research and impact of 70 staff working within earth systems
 and environmental sciences at the University of East Anglia (UEA). Of these, 68 are within the
 School of Environmental Sciences and 2 in Mathematics. The School is in the Faculty of
 Science and enjoys excellent collaborations across the Science Schools, particularly with
 Mathematics, Biological Sciences and Chemistry, as well as with the Schools of International
 Development, Psychology, Medicine; and the other Institutes of the Norwich Research Park
 (NRP). The School was established in 1967, at the awakening of environmental sciences as an
 academic discipline, and with an interdisciplinary ethos at its heart. It is one of the most
 comprehensive University departments of its kind in the world; particularly renowned for
 integrating physical, chemical, biological and social sciences to understand the Earth, its life, its
 people and their interactions.

        Our sustained contribution was recognised in 2017, when the School
        was awarded a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further
        Education in recognition of “Combined natural, social and
        environmental sciences to advance understanding and protection of
        the environment”.

 We are a large unit, returning 65.4 FTE (up from 63 in 2014). During the REF period we have
 published over 1600 peer-reviewed publications, involving hundreds of external co-authorships
 from more than a hundred different countries. This includes more than 80 publications in
 Science (14), PNAS (12), Nature (14), Nature Climate Change (31), Nature Geoscience (6), and
 other Nature Subject journals. In the QS World Rankings for 2020, UEA is 1st for Earth and
 Marine Sciences and 3rd for Geography for citations per paper globally. Four of our researchers
 (Jones, Le Quéré, Nicholls, Peres) were in the world’s top 1% most cited scientists in 2020.
 During the REF period we have been awarded £67M (up from £42M in REF2014) for 487
 research projects, including £34M from UKRI and £17M from the EU. The School has
 consistently produced interdisciplinary research which meets the needs of policy makers at all
 levels of governance, contributing to our                                               Research Centres
 number one ranking for research impact                                                  or Groups

 in REF2014.                                                                                     Sectors
                                                                                                                 Geosciences
                                                                    Environmental
                                                                           Biology




                                                                                           Climate Sciences
                                                                                       Atmosphere, Ocean &




                                                                                                                                         Social Sciences




        Our research is organised into
        centres of research excellence
        and research groups, many of
        which are interdisciplinary, and
        some extend to other Schools or              Centre for Oceanic and Atmospheric Sciences
                                                                               Atmosphere  and Ocean
        research partners. Researchers              Centre for Ecology,
                                                                                                                               Geosciences Group
        commonly belong to multiple              Evolution & Conservation

        centres. Note the School also                                                Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research
        has four disciplinary sectors
                                                         Collaborative Centre for Sustainable Use of the Seas
        which are used to organise and
                                                                                                                 Centre for Social & Economic
        manage teaching. Here we                       Earth & Life Systems Alliance                          Research on the Global Environment
        briefly describe our research
                                                                                                                       Science, Society &
        centres and groups:                                   Climatic Research Unit                                  Sustainability Group

                                                                              W ider UEA; NRP; UK & Global Partners




                                                                                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Climatic Research Unit (established 1972) improves understanding of the
 climate system and its interactions with society, through creating observational
 datasets that are used extensively for monitoring climate change and evaluating
 models. It also provides information for climate services and develops decision
 support tools.

 The Centre for Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences brings together
 scientists researching the physics and biogeochemistry of the
 atmosphere and oceans, and critical interactions between them. We host
 staff from the National Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS) in both
 CRU and COAS.

 In the 50th year of UEA’s affiliation with the Centre for Environment, Fisheries and
 Aquaculture Science (Cefas) in 2015, the School
 established the Collaborative Centre for Sustainable Use
 of the Seas which uses innovative science and practical
 expertise to achieve sustainable use of the seas.

 The UEA-led Tyndall Centre for Climate Change
 Research (established 2000) is a partnership of
 universities bringing together researchers from social,
 natural and engineering sciences to spearhead
 interdisciplinary research on how society should cope with climate change.

 The Science, Society and Sustainability Research Group
 pioneers new approaches for understanding and transforming
 relations between science, innovation and society in addressing
 the sustainability challenges of energy, climate change and
 emerging technologies.

 The Centre for Social and Economic Research on the Global Environment
 focuses on sustainable development and decision making, including economics,
 politics and other social sciences.

 The Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Conservation is one of the largest
 groups of ecologists and evolutionary biologists in Europe, bringing together
 researchers from the Schools of Environmental and Biological Sciences.

 The Earth and Life Systems Alliance is a strategic cornerstone of the NRP with
 researchers investigating the effects of global change on biodiversity, elemental
 cycles and food security from the molecular level through to the ecosystem level.

 The Geosciences Group investigates geohazards, geophysics, sedimentology,
 hydrogeology and hydrology, volcanology, geochemistry and palaeoclimatology
 and, where relevant, links to societal responses, for example, through risk from
 volcanic hazards in the STREVA project.



 1.2 RESEARCH STRATEGY AND PROGRESS AGAINST REF2014 PLANS

 Our research and impact strategy is refreshed periodically, aided most recently by away-days
 and a University-wide strategic review led by the Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) for Research &
 Innovation in 2015.



                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This led to our 2015-2030 Research Vision to pursue:
         “cutting-edge interdisciplinary environmental science research that directly addresses the
         grand environmental challenges of the 21st century”,

 and our overall Mission Statement to:
        “achieve breakthrough advances in society’s understanding of the causes,
        consequences and societal implications of major challenges such as climate change,
        ecosystem loss and energy security”.

 Our strategy is to appoint staff to areas of research priority and where we see funding
 opportunities, then let them drive their research agenda. We aim for a culture of solution-
 oriented research, creating forums for interdisciplinary discussions, forging external
 partnerships, and providing international leadership. This culture generates world-leading impact
 from our research activities through direct engagement with policy makers, governments,
 government agencies, businesses and the public.

 The School’s research and innovation strategy is developed by the Executive Group led by the
 Head of School (HoS) (Hiscock) and the Directors of Research (Reeves) and Innovation
 (Dorling, returned to UoA6; formerly Reid). Hiscock is on the Faculty’s Executive, and Reeves
 and Dorling are on the Faculty’s Research and Innovation Executives respectively. Reeves
 chairs the School’s Research and Innovation Committee. Strategy at the Faculty level is led by
 the PVC for Science, the Associate Dean for Research (Renfrew) and the Associate Dean for
 Innovation (Reid) – both in UoA7.

 To ensure cohesion and sustainability, the School facilitates and funds research centres and
 groups through dedicated workspace; co-location of staff and PhD students; a social area; daily
 School Bulletins; monthly Research Newsletters; a comprehensive programme of seminars
 across all our centres with a wide range of external and internal speakers; and our regular
 Zuckerman symposium show-casing our interdisciplinary research.

 1.2.1 Research Strategy Successes

 Evidence for the success of our strategy is presented in Box1. Here the research centres of the
 authors are noted. It is implicit that our researchers had collaborators.

  Box1: Selected research highlights

                                    Authors in COAS and CRU
  Bakker demonstrated, using the UEA-led SOCAT CO2 dataset, that the Southern Ocean carbon
  sink strengthened for over a decade (2015, Science,10.1126/science.aab2620), and has
  reframed the carbon cycle of the subpolar Southern Ocean (2019, Science Advances,
  10.1126/sciadv.aav6410).
  Suntharalingam carried out the first comprehensive quantification of global nitrous oxide
  sources and sinks (2020, Nature,10.1038/s41586-020-2780-0).
  Heywood documented multidecadal warming of Antarctic waters linked to increased ice shelf
  melt (2014, Science, 10.1126/science.1256117) and the role of eddy transport in ocean
  circulation there (2014, Nature Geoscience, 10.1038/ngeo2289)
  Renfrew found decreasing intensity in open-ocean convection in the Greenland and Iceland
  Seas, due to changes in sea-ice extent and differential warming (2015, Nature Climate Change,
  10.1038/nclimate2688).
  Laube, Oram, Reeves and Sturges, discovered new ozone-depleting substances in the
  atmosphere, feeding through to our policy impact activities via the Montreal Protocol (2014,
  Nature Geosciences, 10.1038/ngeo2109).
  Nowack and Joshi presented evidence that the representation of stratospheric ozone in climate
  models can impact estimates of effective climate sensitivity (2014, Nature Climate Change,
  10.1038/nclimate2451).



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                 Authors in the Tyndall Centre, 3S group, CSERGE, CRU and CEEC
  Wilson developed a low energy demand scenario for meeting the 1.5 °C target and sustainable
  development goals without negative emission technologies (2018, Nature Energy,
  10.1038/s41560-018-0172-6) and showed that a diverse set of measures targeting buyers is
  necessary to drive widespread adoption of clean technologies (2018, Nature Energy,
  10.1038/s41560-018-0195-z).
  Chilvers, Pallett and Hargreaves developed a conceptual framework for understanding
  participation in socio-technical change with reference to energy systems and highlighted the
  challenges of building just transitions (2018, Energy Research and Social Science,
  10.1016/j.erss.2018.03.020).
  Lake, Osborn, Peres and Warren showed how future climate change could amplify the
  incidence and spread of dengue fever in Latin America and that significant impacts can be
  avoided by constraining global warming to 1.5 °C (2018, PNAS, 10.1038/s41558-019-0419-7).
  Le Quéré, Wilson and Jordan showed that decreasing CO2 emissions in 18 countries were
  driven by decreases in energy use and shifts to renewable energy (2019, Nature Climate Change,
  10.1038/s41558-019-0419-7); while Le Quéré led a quantification of the temporary reduction in
  daily global CO2 emissions during the COVID-19 lockdown (2020, Nature Climate Change,
  10.1038/s41558-020-0797-x).
  Warren and Price projected that the number of insect species losing more than half their
  geographic range by 2100 can be reduced by two-thirds if warming is limited to 1.5 °C (2018,
  Science, 10.1126/science.aar3646).

                                  Authors in ELSA, CEEC and COAS
  Murrell described the mechanism by which a methanotroph assimilates methane, a key
  greenhouse gas (2014, Nature, 10.1038/nature13192) and further discovered a protein that
  enables methanotrophs to store copper for methane oxidation (2015, Nature,
  10.1038/nature14854).
  Peres revealed how overhunting in Amazonian forests has limited seed dispersal inducing
  widespread erosion of forest carbon stocks and biomass collapse (2015, PNAS,
  10.1073/pnas.1516525113), and moreover that fragmentation of forests has had a global impact
  on forest vertebrates (2017, Nature, 10.1038/nature24457).
  Franco and Gilroy have enabled better predictions of the effect of global change on the
  resilience and diversity of European birds (2016, Ecology Letters, 10.1111/ele.125697); and have
  provided strategies for better agricultural practice and preservation of biodiversity (2014, Nature
  Climate Change, 10.1038/nclimate2200).
  Van Oosterhout provided new insights into the structure, function and evolution of an archetypal
  supergene in Primula vulgaris (2016, Nature Plants, 10.1038/nplants.2016.188), and with Mock
  presented insights into the evolutionary genomics of a cold-adapted diatom in the Southern
  Ocean, Fragilariopsis cylindrus (2017, Nature, 10.1038/nature20803).

                                       Authors in Geosciences
  Cooper and Hiscock demonstrated that hydrogeological conditions can be used to develop
  refined regional-scale emission factor estimates required for accurate greenhouse gas inventories
  (2017, Environmental Science and Technology, 10.1021/acs.est.7b02135).
  Alexander proposed that discharge variability is a more reliable basis for classifying alluvial rock
  records, recasting a paradigm (2018, Sedimentary Geology, 10.1016/j.sedgeo.2017.12.022).
  Barclay demonstrated that preserving livelihoods was critical to protecting life during volcanic
  crises (2019, Frontiers in Earth Science, 10.3389/feart.2019.00205).




 1.2.2 Reviewing our REF2014 Research Plans

 In REF2014, we set out a number of specific strategic objectives which are reviewed here:




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (i) Develop the Centre for Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences
 COAS was established in 2013, so our aim has been to facilitate its science and grow its
 reputation. Evidence for success includes:

        Responding to national priorities in 2017-2019, by securing three of the five projects
        within NERC’s Role of the Southern Ocean in the Earth System directed research
        programme.

        Our links with the British Antarctic Survey (BAS), Plymouth Marine Laboratory
        (PML) and National Oceanographic Centre (NOC) have strengthened to become
        extensive and significant during the REF period. Our collaborative projects and our PhD
        co-supervisions include: 11 projects (£3M) and 14 students with BAS; 20 projects (£6M)
        and 6 students with PML; 18 projects (£6.7M) and 3 students with NOC. Together these
        partners have 15 honorary positions in the School.

        The new CCSUS has cemented our relationship with Cefas. We have a co-funded
        (50:50) post in Marine Ecosystems (M. Johnson; then Nolte) and 20 Cefas staff have
        honorary positions. Cefas have funded research and consultancy worth £706k and co-
        supervised 14 PhD students.

        Links with the Met Office have strengthened. UEA is in the top five UK universities for
        joint publications (increasing to 94 in the last five years). The Met Office have funded five
        research projects (£947k), three consultancy projects (£366k), been Industrial CASE
        partners for four PhDs and project partners >10 times.

        Links with NCAS have grown to include the co-development of the CRU climate
        datasets. We have a co-funded research fellow (Oram) and host two NCAS staff
        (Forster and Harris).

 (ii) Lead the development of the Tyndall Centre both nationally and internationally
 During the REF period our aim was to sustain and enhance Tyndall’s research activities,
 including with international partners. Evidence for our success includes:

        Steering its flagship global carbon budget annual publication (e.g., Le Quéré, Box1),
        bringing together >70 scientists from 50 organisations and 10 countries. We also hosted
        the European Office (2015-2017) for Future Earth.

        Leading on reducing CO2 emissions from academic flying, with its Tyndall Travel
        Strategy, highly praised in the Editorial of Nature (March 2015), and inspiring similar
        strategies worldwide.

        Developing a partnership with the University of Cape Town, through a Newton Fund
        exchange programme, for 20-PhDs on climate change; and sustaining the Fudan Tyndall
        Centre with its focus on air quality.

        Investigating the potential of innovation, behaviour and policy in the field of energy and
        climate change mitigation, as evidenced by publications (Box1) and an ERC Starting
        grant to Wilson (2015).

        Appointing a new Director (Nicholls), bringing expertise on coastal systems and climate
        change, with former Director Le Quéré remaining in the School. Both are “highly cited”
        (top 1%) researchers.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (iii) Sustain our impressive participation in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
 Change (IPCC)

        We have continued our participation as authors and reviewers of the AR5 WGII report
        (2014) (Warren, Vaughan, Peres), and the IPCC Special Reports on Global Warming of
        1.5°C (2018) (Warren) and Ocean and Cryosphere (2019) (Nicholls, Webber).

 (iv) Grow our activities across the NRP
 The NRP includes UEA and four world-class biological and plant science research institutes –
 the John Innes Centre, Sainsbury Laboratory, Quadram Institute and Earlham Institute. Our aim
 was to increase our NRP collaborations and exploit this concentration of world-leading scientists
 – ten were in the top 1% for citations in 2020, including four from our School.

        We have grown our activities primarily via ELSA under its Director (Murrell) and Deputy
        Director (van Oosterhout). ELSA leads multidisciplinary research between partner
        institutions across the NRP, with over 140 publications since 2014. It promotes joint
        funding and co-supervision of PhD students (8 since 2014). Genome sequencing, in
        collaboration with the Earlham Institute, has been critical to some of our research
        highlights (Box1).

 (v) Sustain our natural capital decision research
 Our aim has been to sustain CSERGE under its Director (Turner), supported by Ferrini, Bark
 and Lovett, as it re-focuses following staff changes.

        Since 2014, CSERGE has expanded beyond the School to include partners in the
        Earlham Institute, Cefas and the School of Economics. It is leading a UKRI project
        ADVENT on valuing natural capital in low carbon energy pathways and is part of the
        GCRF-funded GROW Columbia project.

 (vi) Support development in natural hazards
 Our aim has been to grow our vibrant natural hazards and volcanology groups and their
 interdisciplinary approach to volcanic risk reduction.

        The landmark Strengthening Resilience to Volcanic Hazards (STREVA) project (2012-
        2019) led by Barclay, demonstrated the value of an interdisciplinary approach to
        volcanic risk reduction (Box1). Subsequent partnerships have led to six GCRF projects
        (£1.1M), including city-leadership within the £18M Urban Disaster Risk Hub. Wide-
        ranging developments across the humanities, social and natural sciences illustrate our
        strategic support of interdisciplinary research.

 1.2.3 Research Strategy for the next Five Years

 Our research strategy evolves from recent successes (as above) and new strategic aims within
 the framework of our research vision. Here we outline several specific aims:

 (i) Lead and develop ClimateUEA
 The School has driven a major institutional development: the ClimateUEA initiative (established
 2019). This UEA-wide initiative aims to expand on the successes of CRU, Tyndall and COAS to
 develop multi-disciplinary climate research and climate solutions across UEA with the School
 providing research impetus and leadership, e.g., developing collaborations with our world-
 renowned Creative Writing experts. The School co-leads four of the six challenges; each has
 specific objectives which will need research funding to be met. So far, we have won major
 funding (£1.35M) for a Leverhulme Doctoral Training Centre on the Critical Decade for
 Climate Change recruiting its first cohort during 2021. Our future aims are to win further research
 funding and spearhead ClimateUEA nationally and internationally.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (ii) Push our aspirations for a global NetZero recovery from COVID-19
 We have provided key advice to the UK government on setting its 2050 Net Zero target for
 greenhouse gas emissions (see Box2). Solutions are now needed to achieve this target. We will
 pursue research to deliver solutions for Net Zero from understanding carbon sequestration on
 land and in the ocean, the possibilities and impacts of planned greenhouse gas removal to offset
 residual emissions, and the potential of disruptive innovations in the energy and land sectors.
 We will also pursue research on verification of emissions with Earth System data, namely
 through the development and analysis of atmospheric trace gases and carbon balance.

 (iii) Increase the scientific basis for climate action with our leadership of the Tyndall
 Centre and CAST
 We have been the lead institute for the Tyndall Centre for more than 20 years quantifying the
 risks that climate change poses and identifying the potential for adaptation and mitigation. We
 are playing a key role in the new ESRC Centre for Climate Change and Social Transformations
 (CAST; 2019-2024, £1M to UEA, with potential for up to 15 years funding), led by Tyndall-
 Cardiff, focusing on the social transformations needed to produce a low-carbon and sustainable
 society. We also want to increase the scientific basis for the support of adaptation to climate
 change in coastal areas, develop the science for sustainable use of land, and strengthen
 Tyndall-CRU collaborations. Prestigious new ERC awards to Wilson (Consolidator) and Jordan
 (Advanced) will enable analysis on digitalisation impacts on climate and the political challenges
 with delivering Net Zero.

 (iv) Grow our Science, Society and Sustainability Research Group
 We will build on the successful development of our 3S Group as a centre for internationally
 leading research on the social dimensions of science, technology and sustainability. Specifically,
 through our leadership of the UK Energy Research Centre Phase 4 in 2019-2024 (Co-Directed
 by Chilvers, £0.65M to UEA), including the new Observatory for Societal Engagement with
 Energy (led by Chilvers with Pallett and Hargreaves).

 (v) Develop Data Science for environmental research and sustainable geoscience
 The School is exceptionally active in the delivery of widely used environmental datasets, such as
 the CRU climate records. We now aim to develop our data science research for environmental
 sciences. This will build on recent methodology developed to uncover changes in CO2 emissions
 during the COVID-19 pandemic and our use of machine learning to assess recent Southern
 Ocean CO2 changes (Box1). We plan to forge new collaborations with colleagues in the School
 of Computing, build on our current expertise and support our recently appointed lecturers in data
 science and atmospheric chemistry (Nowack), and data science and geohazards (Bie). This is
 part of our strategy for strengthening and deepening our interests in sustainable geoscience
 via the understanding of the genesis and evolution of geohazards, geo-resources (including
 water), and marginal (biodiverse) landscapes. It will advance understanding by combining novel
 instrumentation and data mining.

 (vi) Expand our pole-to-pole exploration of the physical environment
 We have research programmes funded to deploy observing platforms under the ice in Antarctica
 (Heywood), in clouds over the Arctic and Antarctica (Renfrew), around Indonesia (Matthews),
 and along the length of the Atlantic Ocean (Manning). We want to ensure that the COVID-19
 pandemic restrictions do not have long-lasting impact on these critical programmes and are
 organising for a strong return to the field as soon as possible.

 (vii) Develop our partnerships with businesses and government agencies
 UEA provides academic leadership to the East of England and the School has a strategic role
 which complements our generally global research portfolio, e.g., through our collaborations with
 Anglian Water and County Councils. We aim to sustain such research via ‘place’ orientated
 funding, such as EIRA (Enabling Innovation: Research to Application, launched in 2019) which is
 co-led by UEA.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 IMPACT: STRATEGIC GOALS, MECHANISMS AND ACHIEVEMENTS

 Impact is embedded in the School’s 2015-2030 strategy:
         “building strong partnerships with governments, businesses and civil society to identify
        societal solutions that put society firmly on a path to sustainability in the 21st century”.

 The School’s longstanding approach to translating research into impact is to tailor research to
 the needs of stakeholders. Our researchers are supported to engage with senior policy makers,
 civil society organisations, government agencies, businesses and the public. We aim to
 engender the mutual trust and respect that is critical for effective knowledge exchange, co-
 production and collaboration, so that impact flourishes. In REF2014, 77% of our impact was
 assessed to be 4*. We have sustained this level of impact via a range of mechanisms:

 •     Our Directors of Innovation and Research engage with an Annual Review of Impact,
       supported by our Research and Innovation Services and overseen by the relevant Associate
       Deans. Assessments from this review act as a gateway to internal funding.
 •     We have had several Impact Workshops covering impact generation; the sharing of ideas
       for impact activities; peer review of embryonic Impact Case Studies (ICS).
 •     We have supported impact through institutional funding (more than 50 awards, totalling
       over £830k in the REF period; see Section 3) and staff mechanisms (see Section 2).
 •     During the REF period, we have nurtured and supported a strong and diverse portfolio of
       impact activities, including 23 potential ICS with 6 submitted (Box2):

     Box2: Our REF2021 Impact Case Studies

     ICS1: Impacting international policy on biodiversity through valuing ecosystem services and
     natural capital
     ICS2: Global temperature research and data products underpin international climate
     negotiations
     ICS3: Global carbon budgets influence the design and implementation of Net-Zero
     emissions targets
     ICS4: Protecting the ozone layer and climate - halocarbon research underpins the Montreal
     Protocol
     ICS5: Informing policy for a greener Brexit
     ICS6: More accurate weather and climate models from an improvement in surface exchange
     over sea ice
 Our Approach:
 • Knowledge Exchange with intergovernmental agencies is critical to our policy-relevant
    impact, such as with the IPCC (ICS2, ICS3); the United Nations Intergovernmental Science-
    Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (ICS1); and the Montreal Protocol
    Scientific Assessment of Ozone Depletion (ICS4)). This has been aided by workload
    adjustments to participate in these bodies (e.g., Jones, Osborn).
 • Co-production is critical to realising some of our impact through:
        o Stakeholder funding, e.g., Defra’s UK National Ecosystem Assessment Follow-On
            (ICS1) and a BEIS consultancy project (ICS3);
        o Membership of influential or statutory bodies, e.g., Le Quéré’s membership of the UK
            Climate Change Committee; and her appointment as Chair of the French Haut
            Conseil pour le Climat (ICS3);
        o Advice to government committees, e.g., Jordan for the Environmental Audit
            Committee in the House of Commons (ICS5).
 • Direct collaborations, for example with the Met Office, have enabled the production of the
    highly used HadCRUT dataset (ICS2) and the implementation and evaluation of
    parameterizations in their weather and climate models (ICS6).
 • All six submitted ICS have received UEA funding, including support for research staff in CRU
    and the Tyndall Centre that have been critical for ICS2 and ICS3.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 OUR APPROACH TO INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH

 An interdisciplinary approach to research has been at the heart of the School since its founding
 in 1967 and was highlighted in the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2017. This ethos has been
 sustained over many decades by our approach to research challenges. Over 20% of our
 submitted outputs are classed as interdisciplinary. Some highlights are in Box1 (outputs from
 Lake, Barclay, & Gilroy). Our ethos has been aided by, for example, School-wide dissemination
 of seminars, our regular interdisciplinary Zuckerman Symposia and regular School discussion
 meetings. Further evidence includes two 50:50 staff members – Matthews with Mathematics
 and Gilroy with Biology – and membership from other Schools in many of our research centres.


 1.5 OPEN RESEARCH

 Our strategy for open research is to maximise access to our publications and data. For
 example, all accepted manuscripts are uploaded to the Pure research information system and
 become externally accessible in compliance with REF open access requirements. The University
 also administers UKRI and charity funds to pay for open access publication in accordance with
 funders' requirements. In addition, the School selectively funds gold open access when
 institutional funds are not available.

 A new University-level initiative will extend open access to underpinning datasets. Our data are
 already made available following funder data policies, e.g., via NERC data centres. The School
 has gone beyond these requirements, for example:
 • CRU global climate datasets are among the most frequently used datasets in geosciences
     (e.g., the world-renowned HadCRUT global temperature, Morice et al. 2012, has 1370
     citations) and are disseminated via the CRU website, CRU-developed Google Earth layers
     and external data centres.
 • In collaborations with NRP colleagues, we have developed open-source software for whole
     genome datasets (HybridCheck); and population genetics (Micro-Checker; Van Oosterhout
     et al. 2004 has > 10,000 citations).


 1.6 RESEARCH INTEGRITY AND ETHICS

 Our approach to Research Integrity is guided by our Ethics Officer (Pallett) and is in line with
 University and national policy. During the REF period, the addition of environmental
 considerations to such policies has meant an increase in scrutiny and resourcing. All PGR
 students in the School are taught about research ethics. For research projects we receive
 support from the Research and Innovation Services, while approval comes from the Science
 Faculty Research Ethics Committee. The School has led elements of University practice, e.g., in
 2014 Pallett joined the University Research Ethics Committee to advise on issues related to
 environmental impact and wrote university-wide guidance.

 2. People
 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT

 Our staffing strategy aims to create a sustainable and thriving research environment to
 facilitate the career development of existing research staff, and to recruit outstanding new staff in
 open competition. We aim to provide the highest standards of equality, diversity and inclusion to
 attract, develop and retain high-achieving research staff and students. We are returning 70 staff
 (45M:25F); 62 are ‘Academic Teaching & Research’ faculty on indefinite contracts and 8 are
 independent researchers of whom only 3 (2M:1F) are on fixed-term contracts. We support part-
 time working and have 12 (5M:7F) such staff. On average we have had 63 Research Associates
 (RAs) and fellows employed each year of the REF period.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.1 Staff Development Strategy

 To implement our staff development strategy, we deploy a suite of mechanisms at University,
 Faculty and School levels:
 •   All staff undertake Annual Appraisals. The approach is supportive and reflective:
     celebrating achievements, considering what has helped or hindered progress, planning
     short- and long-term objectives, identifying support required, and raising issues for the
     attention of the HoS. It is also a chance to discuss career progression, including promotion.
     Appraisers of RAs are not normally their line manager, allowing them to discuss their
     progress with an independent person. Staff can request a different appraiser.

 •   The School operates an annual Research Activity Planning exercise for all ATR faculty
     (optional for RAs) to encourage self-reflection and strategic planning of research activities.
     Data on outputs, grants, PhD supervision and research impact for the last few years
     underpin the reflection and discussions in a meeting with a senior researcher. We have
     found these meetings encourage staff to plan more carefully, for example, which grant calls
     to target. They also provide an opportunity for constructive feedback on future aspirations.

 •   These meetings inform an Annual Research Review which is led by the Director of
     Research and HoS, supported by a research services manager, and overseen by the
     Associate Dean for Research in Science and the PVC-Research.

 •   Staff have access to over 200 on-site Training Courses. Several are compulsory and must
     be renewed regularly (e.g., Diversity in the Workplace, GDPR); others are required for
     certain activities (e.g., recruitment, appraisal). Funding is available for specialised training
     requirements, such as, fieldwork first aid and female-focused senior leadership (e.g., Bark,
     Pallett, Reeves).

 •   The School’s Promotions Committee considers cases for confirmation of appointment and
     promotion of academic and contract research staff as part of UEA’s procedures. Staff are
     offered support in their applications by mentors or line managers. Guidance notes are
     available from our Athena SWAN committee and feedback is provided by the Committee
     chair (the HoS). In the REF period 12 staff (6M:6F) have had their appointments confirmed;
     10 (6M:4F) have been promoted to Senior Lecturer, eight (3M:5F) to Associate Professor;
     and 17 (13M:4F) to Professor. In addition, eight RAs (5M:3F) have been promoted.

 •   New faculty are provided with a mentor, who guides them through UEA processes and
     supports them during their probation. They are required to pass the Certificate in Higher
     Education Practice, which encourages research-led teaching and includes research
     objectives as part of a Personal Development Plan. Early career lecturers are given a
     reduced teaching and admin workload – 50% in their first two years, rising to a full load by
     year four – and receive a research development fund of £30k. They are also eligible for the
     Faculty early-career PhD studentship competition, beneficiaries include Nowack.

 •   During the REF period, eight staff held fellowships supported by various funders (EPSRC,
     NERC, EU, Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust and British Academy).

 •   UEA has a Code of Practice for the Management of Research Staff which is informed by the
     Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The School’s Research Staff
     Co-ordinator (Webber) is the point-of-contact for RAs, who are offered mentors and have
     access to staff training.

 •   The School has been pro-active in improving career progression for RAs. The Director of
     Research and Researcher Affairs Forum Chair have been instrumental in the implementation
     of the 2019 Concordat at University level: meeting with the PVC-Research; contributing to a

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     new Research Staff Promotions Handbook; and working with Human Resources to
     implement new merit-based promotion criteria that now apply across the University. The
     University funds any financial shortfall resulting from RA promotion.

 •   Technical staff play a key role in underpinning and facilitating our research. UEA promotes
     opportunities for technical staff to gain professional recognition through the Science
     Council’s Professional Registers, demonstrating transferability skills across academia and
     industry, and provides a framework to support career development and promotion.

 2.1.2 Staff Recruitment Strategy

 Staffing policy is the responsibility of the School’s Executive Group and is guided by the School
 Strategy. During the REF period, 22 members of faculty have left: eight retired with seven taking
 on Emeritus positions; 13 moved elsewhere and one passed away. We have recruited 17 new
 indefinite contract staff and increased our independent researcher numbers, so overall our
 staff numbers are marginally higher than in 2014. Our general approach is to recruit at early
 career stage (all but three have been lectureships) and provide a research environment for them
 to succeed. This approach helps balance our demographic profile. New faculty are only hired if
 judged to be producing internationally excellent research. We foster career progression in our
 own research staff: eight have transitioned from fellowships or RA posts into faculty positions
 (Bakker, Cooper, Gilroy, Harwood, Laube, Pallet, Price, Webber); while four have
 transitioned from fellowships elsewhere (Bark, Mahony, Nowack, Ebbensgaard). Three new
 appointments came from overseas institutes (J. Johnson, Bennett, Nolte); and two from UK
 institutes (Nicholls, Rose).
 • These 17 new faculty appointments have been aimed at sustaining our research activities
     across the whole School: five in COAS, one in CRU, two in Tyndall, three in Geosciences,
     two in CEEC, four in 3S, and one in CSERGE.
 • When independent fellows take on lectureships, we arrange for them to complete their
     fellowships enabling them to focus on their research, while becoming familiar with the
     School.
 • The University has always offered relocation expenses to academic staff, and from 2019 this
     was extended to research staff.
 • All our new appointments have passed probation at the appropriate stage.

 2.1.3 Support for Staff at the beginning of their Research Careers

 On starting at UEA, our staff have a University and School Induction Programme, led by our
 local administrative support team and their line manager. They are given a welcome pack and
 guidance on processes at UEA. In addition, RA’s have specialised support, including:

 •   RA representatives sit on all relevant School committees, voicing RA views and supporting
     their professional development.
 •   RA’s are invited to organise seminar series – giving them the opportunity to invite speakers
     and host discussions.
 •   We have a lively School Researchers Affairs’ Forum chaired by an RA and attended by the
     Research Staff Co-ordinator (occasionally the HoS) that discusses promotion, professional
     development, etc.
 •   We use indicative job descriptions to ensure that RA jobs are costed at the correct level on
     grant applications and appointed on an appropriate salary grade.
 •   We encourage RAs to become members of the supervisory teams of PhD students where
     appropriate.
 •   Our researchers are encouraged to take part in the University-wide Annual Researcher
     Summit (featuring “Special Merit in Research” Awards – the 2020 recipient being in the
     School).




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.4 Study Leave and Exchanges

 The School encourages study leave with staff eligible for six months every six semesters. Study
 leave has enabled people to:
 • Prepare major grant proposals, e.g., Matthews (TerraMaris £3M consortium)
 • Participate in major field campaigns (e.g., Matthews, Hall and Heywood BoBBle)
 • Visit overseas institutes to develop research collaborations (e.g., Reid, Chinese Academy of
     Sciences; Malin, Ocean University China; Zhai, University of Hamburg; Peres, State
     University of Sao Paulo; and Sturges, University of Colorado)
 • Develop impact, and interact with stakeholders (e.g., Lovett, Anglian Water; Warren and
     Osborn, IPCC)

 2.1.5 Recognition and Reward for Research and Impact Activities

 Research and impact effort are recognised in our Workload Allocation Model which includes
 time for core research (30%), investigator time on funded grants, PhD supervision and impact
 activities (Section 2.3).

 Staff are rewarded via promotion and discretionary payments. Staff successes are celebrated
 via the School Research Newsletter which highlights research and impact achievements (e.g.,
 grants won, papers published, awards received).

 UEA celebrates achievements through its annual Impact and Innovation Awards. The School
 encourages nominations and has had winners:
 • Outstanding Impact in Policy and Practice (Jordan and Rayner – 2018)
 • Consultancy Project of the Year (Warren and Le Quéré – 2019).


 2.2 POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH STUDENTS

 2.2.1 Overview

 Postgraduate research (PGR) students are key to the intellectual vitality and research activity of
 the School and, for example, we have PGR co-authors on 20% of our returned outputs. On
 average we have had 147 PGR students (142 on PhDs; 13 part-time) registered each academic
 year of the REF period.

 Governance and training of all our PGR students is overseen by the Science Graduate School
 which is a part of the UEA Doctoral College. The School’s Director of PGR (Manning) is on the
 Science Faculty’s PGR Committee, which is led by the Associate Dean for PGR. There is very
 high overall satisfaction amongst our PGR students: 92% compared to the sector average of
 82% in the PGR Experience Survey (2019).

 2.2.2 Funding and Recruiting our PGR Students

 The School leads first and second round NERC Doctoral Training
 Partnerships – EnvEast (2014-2022) and ARIES (2019–2027) – with
 the Director (Sturges) and several other role-holders in the School. Our
 students can be ‘associated’ with a DTP and so benefit from their cohort
 training, and almost all take up this opportunity – the School has paid for
 42 associations (>£20k).

 Our NERC DTPs have been at the forefront of a student-centred approach to training and
 pioneered a number of innovations which have been emulated across UEA and some of our
 partner universities. These innovations led to EnvEast being the only DTP to have “green”
 (excellent) scores in all components of the mid-term review of round 1 NERC DTPs.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UEA has played a key role in the Next-Generation Unmanned System Science (NEXUSS)
 Centre for Doctoral Training, funded by NERC and EPSRC and led by the University of
 Southampton. Hall is on the Steering Committee. Out of a total of 44 available studentships, the
 School has hosted 10 studentships, and co-supervised several more with the School of
 Computing.

 The remainder of our students (~50%) are funded from a range of sources including NERC
 Industrial CASE, the South East Network for Social Sciences DTP, EPSRC, the Faculty of
 Science, the China Scholarship Council, and Southern University of Science and Technology,
 Shenzhen. We have been working to broaden funding routes for PhD studentships, firstly from
 additional external funding such as the Leverhulme DTC starting in 2021; and secondly by
 lobbying for additional investment into PhDs by the Faculty of Science who have agreed and
 increased annual investment since 2019.

 Our Approach to Recruitment
 The recruitment of PGR students adheres to UEA's policies on recruitment and Equality &
 Diversity. Recruitment is via open calls followed by a formal selection process involving the
 proposed supervisory team and independent interviewers. In all cases, we aim to widen
 participation, enhance diversity and support well-being, for example:
 •   All DTP interview panellists must have unconscious bias training and DTP panels must
     exhibit gender diversity. Tracking through the recruitment cycle shows near equal gender
     balance.
 •   Since 2018, the DTPs have provided an additional three months’ stipend to “convert” students
     from highly numerate disciplines to environmental sciences – awarded to four of our students.

 2.2.3 Supervision, Monitoring and Representation

 All PGR students have a supervisory team, with at least two supervisors. Where the primary
 supervisor is an early career researcher, the secondary supervisor must be experienced. All
 PGR supervisors are required to undertake training in Best Practice in Research Supervision
 every three years.

 Formal review meetings with the supervisory team occur three times a year, with progress
 reports reviewed by the School’s PGR Director and action taken as needed. In practice,
 supervisors typically meet students weekly and meetings are regularly recorded. PGR students
 undergo a formal probationary review in their first year – all passed during 2016-19.

 The School’s Graduate Affairs Committee is co-chaired by the Director of PGR and a PGR
 student. We have PGR Representatives on the Health & Safety Committee, Equality & Diversity
 Committee and School Board.

 2.2.4 Skills Training and Career Preparation

 All PGR students engage in a Training Pathway. The UEA Code of Practice commits to skills
 and employability training, taking into account national standards. When students start, they
 complete a Training Needs Analysis, identifying their strengths and weaknesses. They update
 this as a Personal Development Plan annually, in consultation with their supervisors and with
 feedback from our Training Coordinators.

 We provide an extensive and high-quality training programme open to all students. It includes
 advanced skills training (e.g., Environmental Genomics), broader academic skills (e.g., writing
 research papers) and life skills (e.g., mental health first aid). Our programme is evidence-based,
 academic-led and delivered by highly qualified staff.

 Most of our students are in (or are associated with) our NERC DTPs and these run four weeks of
 mandatory multidisciplinary cohort residential training, which is generally rated as ‘excellent’

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 or ‘very good’. All multi-day training events include a component on well-being such as work-life
 balance, or mindfulness. In addition:
 • We have funded several internship schemes subsidising the placement of students into
     relevant business for up to three months, e.g., into WeatherQuest and Benthic Solutions.
 • All ARIES multi-day cohort training events feature former PGRs talking about their career
     experiences.
 • We fund a student club for promoting enterprise, innovation and employability activities.
 • NEXUSS specifically trains their students in the development and application of smart and
     autonomous observation systems, e.g., ocean gliders. Student cohort training events have
     included designing and carrying out a survey using robotic techniques.
 • We have run three 5-day NERC Advanced Training Short Courses on ocean gliders.
     These included hands-on experience using UEA's unique glider calibration tank and expert
     tuition on ocean science and using gliders. Each course had 21-24 participants from across
     the UK (occasionally overseas), most being PGR students.

 UEA has two careers advisers dedicated to supporting research students in skills development
 and preparation for their future career. External businesses are involved, contributing to
 sessions e.g., Preparing for Non-academic Interviews.


 2.3 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY (E&D)

 The School is fully supportive of UEA's strategy and policies on E&D. In line with these, all staff
 undergo appropriately tailored training, such as Diversity in the Workplace (refreshed every two
 years). Through a mix of formal and informal approaches, we strive for a professional,
 supportive and inclusive research environment for all.
 E&D considerations informed a new fully transparent Workload Model, developed and
 implemented by the Faculty of Science in 2019 to bring consistency across its Schools. The
 chair and deputy chair of our School’s E&D Committee were on the Faculty’s Workload Model
 working group. The new model allocates 30% of staff time to core research activities – proposal
 writing, research, output writing and impact development – as well as protecting funding success
 by accounting for Investigator time. Time-consuming one-off activities can also be accounted for,
 e.g., ICS development.

 2.3.1 Equality and Diversity (Athena SWAN) Activity

 The School’s Equality and Diversity (Athena SWAN) Committee comprises the Chair
 (Lorenzoni), HoS, School Manager, members of faculty, including the Care Leave Champion,
 along with RA, Local Support and HR Representatives. The Chair is on the School’s Executive
 and Promotions Committees, as well as the Faculty’s EDI Steering Group and participates in the
 UEA Athena SWAN Central Operational Group. Also, Malin is on the UEA Equality Frameworks
 Central Steering Group. The Faculty has two Athena SWAN and E&D Coordinators who assist
 the School in implementing its activities. Females are well represented on the School’s
 Executive: six of ten School Directors are women, including the Director of Research (Reeves)
 who is also Deputy HoS.

        The School obtained the Bronze (2014) and then Silver (2017)
        Athena SWAN Awards demonstrating great progress across a
        range of E&D issues during the REF period.

 When the School achieved Silver, the Panel commended the guidance
 for promotion applications, recruitment materials, our care leave champion, and non-PI
 appraisers for RAs. Progressing through our Action Plan we have relaunched our mentoring
 scheme, held a grant application workshop, addressed issues with the workload model and
 supported RAs applying for promotion. In addition:



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   We have added positive action statements on E&D to our recruiting materials. A revised
     version is now used Faculty-wide.
 •   There has been a shift in our gender balance with 41% of newly recruited faculty being
     female compared with 23% of those leaving.
 •   To enable staff to accommodate personal needs, core hours (10am to 4pm) have been
     established.
 •   We support part-time working and have 12 (5M:7F) such staff. Part-time arrangements are
     considered in applications for study leave and promotion.
 •   The School has supported several instances of shared parental leave.
 •   Periods of parental leave or caring leave are considered in the promotion process.
 •   Since 2015, the Faculty has allocated a fund of £10k p.a. for Transition back to Work
     following a period of absence such as parental leave. In 2019 this was extended to become
     a Return to Work/Family Support Fund that now covers PGR students. A total of £5.6k
     has been awarded to our staff, e.g., for laptops and travel for accompanying persons to
     provide infant care during fieldwork.
 •   Following the School’s Athena SWAN action, the Faculty established a Bridging Fund to
     cover gaps of up to three months for RAs between contracts; so far one RA in our School
     has benefitted. While previously, in 2015, another RA had bridging funding of £25k from the
     PVC-Science.
 •   The School has supported one staff member and several PGR students with scribes to allow
     them to work productively.
 •   We promote well-being events (e.g., Time to Talk Day) via our daily newsletter.
 •   We host seminars to enhance inclusivity both locally and nationally, e.g., Barclay hosted a
     series of Black Lives Matter panels for the VMSG group of the Geological Society of London
     in 2020.

 UEA has supported ResNet, a network promoting gender equality and
 fairness, for over 20 years. ResNet organises events to promote career
 development; provide inspiration, information and support; and raise
 awareness of E&D issues. It is run by a committee from across the NRP
 including two members of the School: Malin (Chair) and Barclay who between
 them have led about 20% of the >75 events delivered during 2014-20.

 2.3.2 Equality and Diversity in the REF Submission

 This submission was constructed to present the quality of our research and impact, in
 compliance with UEA's agreed REF2021 Code of Practice, and recognising the need to
 maintain fairness and eliminate potential unconscious bias (all decision-makers received
 Unconscious Bias training and the UoA Coordinator received advice from the School’s E&D
 Committee).

 Output selection followed the UEA REF Code of Practice. Colleagues self-scored their outputs,
 which were then graded by at least two independent senior assessors (22M:7F). Assessors
 were briefed with advice on avoiding unconscious bias. A selection of outputs were also sent for
 external assessment. Anonymised assessment scores were returned to staff, giving them the
 opportunity to reflect on and challenge them if desired. A subset of assessors reviewed all
 scores and, when necessary, undertook additional assessments. Using the final scores, outputs
 were ranked and attributed to authors to allow selection of our highest ranked outputs, while
 adhering to the REF rules and our Code of Practice. The gender profile of attributed authors’
 outputs (29%F) reflects that of the Unit as a whole (35%F), given fewer senior staff and more
 part-time staff are female.

 ICS selection was based on our Annual Impact Review meetings, conducted by the School
 Directors, the Faculty Associate Deans, and the Faculty Managers of Research and Innovation,
 overseen by the PVC-Research (3M:4F). Constructive feedback was returned to ICS authors at
 each stage.

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 INCOME FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT

 The School has been awarded £67M for 487 research projects during the REF period (up from
 £42M in REF2014). £48M is from UK sources, £17M from the EU and £2M international. £34M
 is from UKRI (including £27M from NERC), £5M is from Government, £4M from charities, £2M
 from NIHR and £1M from industry. Examples of major grants and prestigious awards include:

    •   In 2016 and 2017, Murrell and Heywood won prestigious ERC Advanced Grants worth
        €2M and €3.5M respectively. Murrell has shown that the phyllosphere of an isoprene-
        emitting tree contains a diverse isoprene-degrading population (PNAS, 10.1073/
        pnas.1812668115). Heywood is developing the capability to make autonomous, climate-
        relevant ocean measurements to better understand air-sea-ice interaction, dense water
        formation and ice shelf melting.
    •   In 2016, Wilson and Laube each won ERC Starting Grants worth €1.6M and €1.5M
        respectively. Wilson has been investigating how social influences and disruptive
        innovations can reduce carbon emissions (Box1). Building on research during a NERC
        Fellowship in the REF period, Laube has used innovative technologies to explore
        halocarbon chemistry and circulation of the stratosphere (Box1).
    •   In 2019, Le Quéré won a prestigious Royal Society Research Professorship (£1.53M) to
        develop a high-complexity model to investigate carbon variability in the ocean.
    •   The £2.20M Wensum Demonstration Test Catchment project funded by Defra was
        extended with a further £1M to Lovett, Hiscock and Cooper. Working with collaborators
        and stakeholders they have demonstrated the nitrogen and phosphorus response to
        farming practices in arable catchments (Box1).
    •   Lake and Hunter (Medicine) have received joint awards totalling £2.1M from the NIHR
        that has led to interdisciplinary research on topics such as the spread of dengue fever in
        a warming climate (Box1).
    •   A major programme on Asian houbara conservation led
        by Dolman has been extended with a further £1.14M
        from Birdlife International.
    •   A £1.14M award from the European Centre for Medium-
        range Weather Forecasts enabled Goodess and Jones
        to advance climate services for the renewable energy
        sector through capacity building and user engagement.


 3.2 STRATEGY AND SUPPORT FOR GENERATING RESEARCH AND IMPACT INCOME

 We have an internal grant-reviewing system in place for all UKRI research councils to review
 proposals for their responsive rounds, aiming to improve their quality and support PIs. Our
 average success rate with NERC (our largest funder) is comparatively high at 28%. Indeed, in
 every year of the REF period our NERC success rate has been higher than the sector
 average; and since July 2016 we have been above their demand management threshold. In
 2020 we rolled out a voluntary mentoring scheme for proposals to any funding scheme.

 The School regularly hosts workshops with research councils in conjunction with the
 Associate Dean for Research. For example, we hosted an EPSRC theme day in 2018 with a
 programme leader giving a keynote talk, several presentations on ‘tips to winning funding’, a
 Q&A panel and a networking poster-event. Similar NERC theme days in 2016 and 2019 included
 keynote talks by NERC Directors. These funder-focused events are used to develop a positive
 research culture, facilitate networking and encourage grant proposal planning.

 The School supports fellowship applicants via mentoring, proposal reviewing, interview
 preparation and facilitating advice from professional and technical staff. We advertise fellowship

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities via our Fellowships webpages, social media, and internally via emails and our
 research newsletter. UEA’s Science Fellowship Champion (Murrell) leads a popular (~50
 attendees) annual workshop on applying for fellowships. Fellowship schemes that require a
 significant financial contribution from the University, such as the Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowships and UKRI’s Future Leaders Fellowships, have an internal sift process to ensure high
 quality applications. During the REF period, the School has supported 70 fellowship applications
 and been successful with 10. Long-term (five year) fellows are offered a permanent contract if
 probation conditions are passed (e.g., Laube).

 Support for Generating Impact

 Impact from our research, and potential REF ICS, are supported by UEA and the School. The
 School’s Director of Innovation (Dorling, formerly Reid) has sustained our culture of impact
 through School meetings, advice on converting research into impact, help with securing funding,
 and workshops to share best practices; all supported by UEA’s Impact Team and Relationship
 Managers (see Section 1.3). We have a strong and diverse portfolio of impact activities, with 23
 potential ICS and 6 submitted (Box2).

 Our Annual Impact Review involves School- and Faculty-level review and scoring with Impact
 Team support and PVC-Research oversight. This review provides a gateway to access
 institutional impact funding. We have received more than 50 awards, totalling over £828k in
 the REF period. Sources include: UEA’s HEIF allocation (£165k), ESRC Impact Accelerator
 Fund (£65k), PVC Strategic Funds (£60k), Associate Dean Funds (£14k), UEA Proof of Concept
 Fund (£18k), Innovation Development Funding (£79k), UEA’s GCRF Fund (£71k), the NRP
 Translational Fund (£86k), and the EIRA Fund (£75k).

 This impact funding has been spent on a range of
 activities including: developing animal tracking devices;
 establishing the Marine Knowledge Exchange Network;
 developing safer agrochemicals to reduce the environmental impact of pesticides; evidencing
 the potential for paper crumble to re-carbonise soil and improve soil quality; visiting stakeholders
 in Brazil and producing and distributing Brazilian fisheries management brochures; holding a
 two-day summit with leaders from government, business and civil society organisations; creating
 experiential films, mobile exhibits and a website about volcanic risk in the Caribbean; producing
 a systematic review to inform EU referendum debates and establishing the Brexit & Environment
 think tank (ICS5); meeting with officials from government departments (ICS1); working on the
 CRU datasets (ICS2); the development and piloting of the ScienceBrief platform which has
 supported journalism for the IPCC, etc. (ICS3); knowledge exchange activities (ICS4);
 parameterization testing in the Met Office weather and climate model (ICS6).


 3.3 INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORTING RESEARCH AND IMPACT

 The School is supported by UEA’s Research and Innovation Service. Two Project Officers
 support research grants from proposal development to final reporting. The Impact team
 oversees impact portfolio development/review processes, delivers impact training, coordinates
 workshops, and assists staff with evidence gathering. A Relationship Manager dedicated to
 Marine, Agricultural and Environmental Sciences helps broker interactions with a variety of
 companies and organisations.

 3.3.1 Institutional Facilities

 The Science Faculty is supported by 91 technical staff (15 in the School), dedicated laboratories
 and modern scientific instrumentation. During 2017/18 a review of centrally managed Science
 Analytical Facilities and of Technical Services took place. This led to a re-arrangement of the
 facilities into seven Faculty of Science Instrument Platforms: Bio-Imaging, Structural Imaging,
 X-Ray, NMR, Mass Spectrometry, Elemental Analysis and Stable Isotopes. Six have users in the

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School: ranging from rock analysis within the X-Ray and Structural Imaging Platforms;
 metaldehyde and iodine analysis from soil & water within the Mass Spectrometry Platform; gas
 (Dennis, Geology, 10.1130/G39291.1), feather and soil analysis within the Stable Isotope
 Platform; and seawater (Bakker, Box1), agricultural runoff (Hiscock, Box1) and soil analysis
 within the Elemental Analysis Platform. Each platform has an academic lead to spearhead
 platform development, and School provides these for the Elemental Analysis (Malin) and Stable
 Isotope (Dennis) Platforms.

 We have had significant investment (over £2.5M in the REF period) into the Instrument
 Platforms via applications to Research Council calls, capital equipment funding from UKRI and
 co-investment from UEA. Our researchers are already making use of these new facilities. Baker
 for iodine analysis in the Mass Spectrometry Platform's new ICP-MS (£350k, BBSRC 2017Alert);
 Barclay for the analysis of newly erupted lava in the Structural Imaging Platform’s new
 Scanning Electron Microscope (£700k, UKRI Capital Award 2019); Mock using the Bio-
 Imaging Platforms new Zeiss confocal microscopes (£500k, UKRI 2019); and Andrews using
 the X-Ray platforms new Power XRD (£170k, UKRI 2019). Funding from UKRI, awarded in
 February 2020, has been allocated to the Elemental Analysis Platform (£327k); the Structural
 Imaging Platform (£25k); and the Bio-Imaging Platform (£80k).

 The Faculty has a ‘well-found laboratory’ fund, spending on average £292k p.a. on repairing or
 upgrading equipment. Estates spend on Science infrastructure (e.g., fume cupboard upgrades)
 has been over £1.5M. UEA has a PVC Capital Fund of up to £500k p.a. to co-fund equipment.
 This has contributed to some of the above Science Faculty equipment, as well as a total of
 £614k to School equipment.

 We make extensive use of UEA’s High Performance Computing facilities, e.g., for ocean
 modelling, analysis of DNA sequences, and animal movements (Box1). The HPC has had
 £520K investment p.a. and currently provides 8312 CPU cores. Funding from UKRI, awarded in
 February 2020, has been allocated for a new GPU farm (£280k) targeted at data science.

 3.3.2 School Laboratory and Field Facilities

 In addition to hosting some of the Science Faculty Platform equipment, the School has a number
 of internationally leading research facilities:

 We are the only UK university with an Ocean
 Glider Facility, including 11 Seagliders, a
 calibration tank and two dedicated research
 technicians. Heywood, Hall, Kaiser, Matthews,
 and Webber have led over 40 missions in the
 Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, North Sea and
 North Atlantic; and there have been external users.
 Investments during the REF period total £1.85M
 including seven Seagliders and an ERC-funded
 AutoNaut surface vessel, which is powered by
 waves and can carry and release a Seaglider.
 These platforms enable us to collect world-leading
 data in remote environments at a fraction of the
 cost of ship-based fieldwork (Box1).




                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                The Roland von Glasow (RvG) Air-Sea-Ice
                                                Chamber is a unique, purpose-built facility for
                                                investigating the interactions between the ocean, sea-
                                                ice and atmosphere. It was originally funded by an
                                                ERC Consolidator Grant for von Glasow, but part way
                                                through its construction the grant ended prematurely
                                                in 2015 when Roland died. Kaiser took over as lead
                                                and the Science Faculty provided £220k to complete
                                                the facility and a 0.3 FTE research post to support its
                                                use (Crabeck). The chamber is now part of the
                                                Horizon 2020 EUROCHAMP Infrastructure Activity
 which has facilitated collaborative projects with 12 international and four UK groups. One of
 the first studies used natural and artificial tracers to examine gravity drainage through sea ice
 and its parameterization (10.1029/2019JC015791). The chamber has also been used with
 industrial partners, funded by Innovate UK, to investigate icing on autonomous vehicles.

 The Weybourne Atmospheric Observatory is co-funded by UEA and NCAS and coordinated
 by Forster. It is a WMO Global Atmospheric Watch site and the UK’s only atmospheric station in
 the Integrated Carbon Observation System which is a European Research Infrastructure. The
 Observatory is part of the UKRI Infrastructure Roadmap and encourages external access via the
 NCAS Atmospheric Measurement and Observation Facility (AMOF). Investment during the REF
 period has included an FTIR instrument (£99k, NCAS), NO2 and particle analysers, (£106k,
 NERC Air Pollution Capital), new masts and a cylinder store (£25k, UEA). Its data feeds into
 global carbon budget assessments (e.g., Le Quéré, Box1).

 In 2017 the Cylinder Filling Facility, which is a unique facility in the UK providing calibration
 gases to universities and NERC Centres, was awarded £364k as part of Manning’s NERC Air
 Pollution Capital grant of £684k.

 The Stable Isotope Laboratory, led by Dennis and Marca, includes the Stable Isotope
 Platform and is part of the UKRI Infrastructure Roadmap. It received £251k for a new carbon
 dioxide laser isotope analyser from the same NERC grant.”

 In 2019, Oram won funding for a Time-of-Flight Proton-Transfer Mass Spectrometer (£440k,
 NERC Capital award and UEA), which will be accessible via NCAS-AMOF, and enhances our
 halocarbon detection equipment (Box1).


 3.4 COLLABORATIVE USE OF RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE

 A number of School’s facilities are unique and/or are part of international networks. This
 encourages collaborations and the School welcomes visitors to UEA, e.g., we have had over 15
 visits to use the RvG Chamber.

 Our location on the NRP provides access to a number of state-of-the-art life sciences facilities,
 such as greenhouses at the John Innes Centre and BBSRC genomics facilities at the Earlham
 Institute (van Oosterhout, Box1).

 The School makes extensive use of large NERC platforms such as research vessels, research
 aircraft, Argo floats, NCAS-AMOF equipment and the Argon Isotope Facility. In some projects,
 we have led the use of these facilities: as Principal Scientist on research cruises (e.g.,
 Heywood, iSTAR in 2014) or aircraft-based field campaigns (e.g., Renfrew, Iceland Greenland
 Seas Project (IGP) in 2018).

 We have also made use of international research infrastructure, usually in collaboration, such
 as with Indian partners to use their Research Vessel Sindhu Sadhana in 2016 (BoBBLE); or with


                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 US and Norwegian partners to use the NATO Research Vessel Alliance in 2018 (IGP); as well
 the Monserrat and Hawaiian Volcano Observatories; and the Bauana Field Station in Brazil.

 3.6 E&D CONSIDERATIONS IN SUPPORTING FUNDING BIDS OR ACCESS TO INFRASTRUCTURE

 Access to internal research and impact funding, infrastructure and equipment in the Instrument
 Platforms is open to all and is based on need and merit. All staff may therefore benefit.
 Researchers without grant funding can apply for subsidised access to the Faculties Instrument
 Platforms to generate ‘pilot’ data, etc. In line with our overall approach to E&D, we are mindful of
 avoiding unconscious bias in all decision-making for resource allocation. Our targeted
 assistance to early career researchers encompasses the whole School and covers grant
 preparation as well as facilities access.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society

 4.1 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 The multidimensional structure of our School promotes collaborations both within and across
 disciplines. All our research groups have a distinct web presence which promotes their identity
 and aids external collaboration. During the REF period, our collaborators on research grants
 extend to >500 organisations, >350 of which are international (across >50 countries). Fifty-one
 of our external collaborators have honorary positions in the School. Almost all our papers involve
 collaborators from other institutes, the majority international. Our leadership of international and
 national collaborations is exemplified by:
     • Matthews has been the UK-lead in a major collaboration between the UK and India
         (BoBBle, £803k to UEA), which has provided new insight into the ocean-atmosphere
         interactions of the Bay of Bengal (BAMS,10.1175/BAMS-D-16-0230.1). Matthews is now
         leading the NERC-funded (£3M total, £755k to UEA) TerraMaris consortium of three UK,
         three Indonesian institutes and the Met Office, to investigate the Maritime Continent as a
         driver of global climate. Matthews’s study leave and our Ocean glider facility have been
         instrumental.
     • Renfrew co-leads the Iceland Greenland Seas Project, a collaboration involving >20
         institutes with funding from NERC, NSF and Norway (>£3M), which carried out the first
         coordinated atmosphere-ocean wintertime field campaign in the subpolar seas (BAMS,
         10.1175/BAMS-D-18-0217.1). UEA hosted the IGP 2019 Workshop.
     • Vaughan is leading a NERC consortium of four UK universities, on the feasibility of
         afforestation and biomass energy with carbon capture storage for greenhouse gas
         removal (£685k to UEA), e.g., pinpointing where carbon storage needs to occur (Env.
         Res. Lett. 10.1088/1748-9326/aaaa02).

 The School has a number of strategic collaborations or partnerships internationally and
 nationally, for example, with
     • Ocean University of China, with Alliance Co-Director and Honorary Professor (Mock)
         and Visiting Professor (Malin) – we have co-organised workshops at UEA and in China;
     • Southern University of Science and Technology, China, we are part of a split-site PhD
         program with four current students at UEA;
     • Our leadership of the Tyndall Centre over the last 20 years;
     • Cefas, the BAS, the PML, NOC and NCAS (Section 1.2.2).


 4.2 DEVELOPING RELATIONSHIPS WITH RESEARCH USERS, BENEFICIARIES AND AUDIENCES

 Our relationships with stakeholders and research users are wide-ranging and impactful. They
 often involve the co-production of knowledge or the participation by our researchers in

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 government committees or advisory boards or engaging with business. Here we illustrate some
 relationships highlighting the bodies gaining from our research and impact:
      • Lorenzoni has worked with the IPCC to improve climate science communication
         (10.1038/nclimate3162).
      • Goodess has improved access to country-specific climate information through a World
         Health Organisation project and has incorporated a weather generator into the
         Caribbean Community Climate Change Center toolkit.
      • Peres has empowered local people to adopt community-based fisheries management
         in the Amazon (Box1).
      • Dolman has advocated sustainable hunting of the houbara which has been adopted in
         Pakistan, Uzbekistan and the United Arab Emirates and developed a biodiversity audit
         that has shaped conservation practice of a wide range of practitioners, including Natural
         England, the Wildlife Trusts, PlantLife, RSPB, Forestry Commission, MoD,
         Environment Agency and National Trust.
      • Barclay has worked with local communities and government agencies in the
         Caribbean, Colombia and Ecuador to integrate community perspectives with scientific
         knowledge to reduce volcanic disaster risk (Box1).
      • Chilvers, Hargreaves, Lorenzoni, Mahony, Pallett and Seyfang have worked on
         transforming societal engagement in innovation and sustainability in collaboration with
         government, business, civil society organisations such as BEIS, Scottish Government,
         Involve / Sciencewise, Forum for the Future, Anglian Water, Adnams, Norfolk
         County Council, Liftshare, and the Green Alliance.
      • Reid is collaborating with Certis Europe and Anglian Water to produce safer
         agrochemicals with improved capacity for biodegradation, and with Greenworld to
         evidence the potential for paper crumble to improve soil quality.
      • Hiscock, Lovett, and Cooper collaborate with industry partners in the agritech and water
         sectors and with landowners, farming and environmental organisations and government
         agencies through the Wensum Alliance and Water Resources East to protect
         catchment water resources and reduce the impact of agricultural pollution.

 Such relationships also enrich the School’s research environment, for example:
    • Our partnership with Anglian Water, coordinated through the Anglian Centre for Water
        Studies brings together industry and academia and has led to research projects (e.g.,
        Reid) and PhD studentships.
    • We collaborate with WeatherQuest Ltd, a weather services company, and the World
        Energy and Meteorology Council, which links weather knowledge with risk
        management for the energy industry, both located at UEA. This has led to internships
        and subsequent employment for several PhD students.
    • In the DTPs and CDT, 80% of our studentships have had co-supervision from a partner
        organisation.
    • Our DTPs have collaborated with other DTPs, e.g., to lead the “envEXPO” event, that
        brings PGRs and academics together with representatives from industry and
        government.


 4.3 ENGAGEMENT WITH DIVERSE COMMUNITIES

 The School works hard to engage all members of society in the results and implications of its
 research findings. Every year our press office issues on average, 24 press releases leading to
 4,119 media reports of our research. One recent highlight was the stories related to the impacts
 of COVID-19 on carbon emissions (Box1), which was Carbon Brief’s most mentioned article using
 Altimetric data.




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School contributes internationally, nationally and regionally to engagement including:
    • Participating in documentaries for national broadcasters, L’Aventure
       Météo (Renfrew), Climategate: Science of a Scandal (Jones, Osborn)
    • Running public exhibitions, The London Volcano (Barclay)
    • Creating games, Volcanoes Top Trumps (Barclay) with >38,000 packs
       sold, and the proceeds dispersed to communities impacted by volcanic
       hazards
    • Giving lectures and running exhibits for the annual Norwich Science
       Festival (J. Johnson, Barclay, Robinson, Wilson) and UEA’s
       Christmas Lectures for Children (Barclay, Herd, Reid, Renfrew, Ryan
       (PGR))

 UEA celebrates achievements with its annual Engagement Awards. The School encourages
 nominations and has had several winners:
    • Outstanding Achievement in Engagement (Barclay 2014)
    • Engagement Champion Award (Chilvers 2015)
    • Engagement Project Award (M. Johnson 2015; J. Johnson 2016; Price 2019; Ryan
       (PGR) 2019)


 4.4 SUSTAINING THE DISCIPLINE IN RESPONSE TO NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL AGENDAS

 Responding to National Priorities
      We have provided expert advice to Defra as members of their Scientific Advisory
      Council (Jickells), Air Quality Expert Group (Reeves), Social Science Expert Group
      (Jordan); and to BEIS and Innovate UK as co-leads of a working group on Citizen-
      Centred Low-carbon Transition (Chilvers).

        We have provided support through advisory committees for: Natural England (Dolman);
        the Met Office (Renfrew); the Hadley Centre (Le Quéré), and the National Farmers
        Union Water for Food Group (Hiscock).

        We have provided extensive support to NERC including: Marine Facilities Advisory
        Board (Robinson (chair)); HPC Steering Committee (Stevens (chair), Joshi); NCAS
        Executive Committee (Reeves); NCAS-AMOF Board (Manning); Training Advisory Group
        (von Glasow, Laube).

 Responding to International Priorities
      We make numerous contributions to international bodies including: Future Earth’s
      IMBeR Integrated Marine Biosphere Research (Robinson is Chair of the Scientific
      Steering Committee); the UN Joint Group of Experts on the Scientific Aspects of
      Marine Environmental Protection (Baker); the World Meteorological Organisation’s
      WCRP Grand Challenge on Regional Sea-level Change and Coastal Impacts (Nicholls
      co-leads) and WWRP Polar Prediction Project (Renfrew); Future Earth and WCRP’s
      Surface Ocean - Lower Atmosphere Study (Suntharalingam); and the International
      Society for Microbial Ecology (Murrell).

        We also have members of international Advisory Boards including the Max Planck
        Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology (Murrell) and Helmholtz Institute for Climate Science
        (Warren) in Germany.




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE

 Journal Editorship includes:
       Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics (Sturges, Kaiser, Reeves), Wiley Interdisciplinary
       Reviews: Climate Change (Lorenzoni), Environmental Microbiology (Murrell),
       Environmental Impact Assessment Review (Bond), Energy Research and Social Science
       (Hargreaves), Global Biogeochemical Cycles (Suntharalingam), and Philosophical
       Transactions of the Royal Society A (Joshi).

 Participation in Grant Committees includes:
        NERC Discovery (numerous); NERC Fellowships (Heywood (chair)); NERC Large
        Grants (Joshi); NERC CDT (Lake); NERC Capital Call (Manning); ESRC (Chilvers); UKRI
        Clean Air (Reeves); UKRI Fellowships (Barclay); GCRF (Barclay); Royal Society Newton
        International Fellowships (Heywood);

        and internationally includes ERC Consolidator (Robinson (deputy chair)); Academy of
        Finland (Hiscock, Kaiser); Swedish Research Council (Lake (panel chair)); Phycological
        Society of America (Malin); DFG, Germany (Renfrew).

 Prizes and Fellowships include
     • The School as a whole was recognised for advancing understanding and protection of
        the environment with the award of a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further
        Education in 2017.
     • Jickells received the Order of the British Empire in 2018 for his services to marine and
        atmospheric sciences and Le Quéré became a Commander of the British Empire for
        her services to climate change science in 2019.
     • Le Quéré was also elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society (2016), received the
        prestigious Grande Médaille Albert 1er de Monaco (2015), the Heineken Prize for
        Environmental Sciences (2020), and was made a Chevalier of the French Legion of
        Honour (2019).
     • Jickells (2016) and Heywood (2019) were elected as a Fellows of the American
        Geophysical Union.
     • Heywood received the Challenger Society Medal for her outstanding contribution to the
        field of oceanography in 2016.
     • Renfrew received the Adrian Gill Prize from the Royal Meteorological Society
        recognising significant multi-disciplinary meteorological research achievements in 2018.
     • Barclay received the Volcanic and Magmatic Studies Group Award from the
        Geological Society of London in 2015.
     • Zhai received a Challenger Society Fellowship Award in 2018.




                                                                                         Page 23
