Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Trinity University

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 [Note: Category A submitted staff in bold. Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) in CAPITALS.]

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1.    Unit context

 Research in English Language and Literature at Leeds Trinity University (LTU) is collegiate,
 collaborative, interdisciplinary and international. The UoA is returning 9.2 FTE Category A staff
 based on a headcount of 11. Of these, 10 are researchers who are members of the English team
 (Alyal, Bedford, de Gay, Hardwick, Hermeston, Lister, Storer, Taylor-Batty, Uglow, Walz).
 The English team supports and is in turn supported by the University’s flagship interdisciplinary
 Research Centre, the Leeds Centre for Victorian Studies (LCVS). LCVS Co-Directors (Sayer and
 de Gay) are both returned in this UoA. The LCVS has been central to the UoA’s interdisciplinary
 strategy since its inception as a collaboration between English and History in 1994, and it was one
 of the Impact Case Studies returned by the English UoA for REF2014. The LCVS facilitates
 national and international collaborations through its Visiting Fellows, by hosting conferences,
 colloquia, and research seminars, and engaging an annual Visiting Professor to speak publicly
 and deliver workshops to PGRs. The Centre also promotes research within LTU through its MA
 and PhD programmes. The LCVS founded the Journal of Victorian Culture (JVC), now edited by
 Oxford University Press, and has a representative on the Editorial Board (de Gay).

 The four values of collegiality, collaboration, interdisciplinarity and internationalism are also central
 to the UoA’s longstanding reputation for Creative Writing: LTU is an established nexus for creative
 engagement internationally, nationally and regionally, through on-campus readings and festivals
 (most notably the annual Writers’ Festival), open mic sessions (particularly the monthly gathering,
 Wordspace, currently online), civic engagement, online creative connections, national and
 international lectures, workshops, performances and collaborations.

 The English team sits within the Communications Department of the School of Communications,
 Business and Law, established in 2019. The Communications Department fosters strategic
 collaboration between researchers in English and in Media, Film and Journalism, most notably
 between the LCVS and the newer Research Centre, the International Research Centre for
 Interactive Storytelling (IRIS) established in 2016. The work of the LCVS and IRIS is overseen by
 the School Board and the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee. The UoA
 also continues to benefit from the outcomes of strategic collaborations between English and
 Theology/Religious Studies (TRS) fostered by the former Humanities Department (2007-19).

 1.2 Research themes

 The UoA has three overarching Research Themes: The Long 19th Century; Creative Writing; and
 Language, Linguistics and Translation.

        1. The Long 19th Century: The LCVS provides a strategic focus for the interdisciplinary
        interests of staff exploring the long 19 th century and the lasting effects of the Victorian era
        on the present day. This encompasses the history and material culture of sex work (Lister);
        history, art history, literary criticism and philosophy (Uglow, Sayer); Virginia Woolf’s literary
        and religious heritage, encompassing church history, theology, art history, architecture, and
        literary criticism (de Gay); the relationship between 19th-century writing and Modernisms
        (Taylor-Batty, de Gay); work on Victorian popular fiction, collaborative authorship, Victorian



                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Shakespeare scholarship, and the use of Anglo-Manx dialect (Storer); and environmental
       histories, history of science, and the reading of literary, artistic and material cultures (Sayer).

       2. Creative Writing: Research in this Theme is promulgated by three research-active
       creative writers in the permanent staff – novelist Bedford, and poets Hardwick (publishing
       as Oz Hardwick) and Alyal.

       3. Language, Linguistics and Translation: Since the last REF, the Unit has strategically
       expanded its research in this theme in recognition of the growing prominence of language
       within English Studies. It has therefore appointed two ECRs, Hermeston and Walz to work
       alongside Storer. Their work has synergies with that of Taylor-Batty, an established
       researcher in multilingualism, translingualism, and the use of translational processes in
       literature.

 There are synergies between and across these research areas, including:

       (a) Places and spaces: This includes Sayer’s Wellcome Trust project on environmental
       histories and associated husbandry practices and animal histories in the North of England,
       which has enabled her to recruit a Postdoctoral Researcher, Dr James Bowen, working on
       environmental histories of weather, landscape and livestock in rural communities; Storer’s
       work on 19th-century Anglo-Manx dialect poetry; and Hermeston’s work on 19th-century
       pitmen’s dialects in the North-East of England.

       (b) Intertextuality, allusion and experimentation: Taylor-Batty and de Gay research these
       in relation to modernism and its relationship to the literary and cultural past, whilst creative
       writers practise these techniques (Alyal on myth and Hardwick on medievalism).

       (c) Encounters across languages and cultures: seen in the work of Taylor-Batty and Walz;
       Sayer (d/Deaf and H/hearing cultures), and the creative work of Alyal and Hardwick
       (including Tanka poetry and collaborations with Alliance Française).

 1.3 Research strategy

 The UoA’s research strategy emphasises collegiality and collaboration within the UoA and across
 LTU, working in an interdisciplinary way, to facilitate national and international reach and
 engagement. During 2014-21, the Strategy has focused on achieving these goals by building
 national and international external links, and growing capacity within the UoA by investing in staff,
 ECRs and PGRs.

 1.3.1 Review of plans

 The UoA has achieved both its aims from 2014:

 Aim 1: The UoA has enhanced its research profile nationally and internationally. This is evidenced
        particularly in 4.1 and 4.2 below.

 Aim 2: All members of the UoA have been encouraged and enabled to develop their publications
        record. We are returning a headcount of 11 in REF2021, up from 6 for REF2014. These
        include ECRs who have been supported in their research, as well as researchers with a
        long track-record of publications who had more publications than could be accommodated
        in REF2. No Category A staff members in UoA27 have sought exemption.

 We have fulfilled the enabling plans set out in REF2014, by:

    1. Hosting at least one international conference during the period (we hosted three
       international conferences, as described in 4.1.1.1 and 4.1.1.2).


                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Developing research networks, for example by members of staff contributing to national
       and international research bodies (we increased the range of national and international
       research networks, as described in 4.1 and 4.2).

    3. Increasing our externally funded research income by drawing on the developing research
       infrastructure within the University (notably, Wellcome Trust National Collaborative Award
       (PI Sayer) totalling £1.5 million, of which LTU has been awarded c. £223,000. See 3.1 and
       4.1.1.3).

    4. Increasing the recruitment, progression and completion of PGRs from the UK and
       overseas (we increased our PGR community by 500% from 1 completion and 2 current in
       REF2014; to 8.0 completions, based on a headcount of 9, and 6 current. As demonstrated
       in 2.2, the growth in our PGR community has had a hugely beneficial impact on our
       research culture. It will contribute significantly to the University’s subsequent application
       for Research Degree Awarding Powers).

    5. Developing a web presence to promote the research culture of the department and the
       research activities of individual staff members (successes include the website Whores of
       Yore founded by Lister in 2015 (463.8K Twitter followers: see the ICS), the LCVS blog
       and Wordspace podcast).

    6. Enabling and encouraging all staff in the UoA to attend national and international
       conferences (significant UoA successes have been used strategically to build networks for
       research projects).

    7. Enabling and encouraging all staff in the UoA to take regular study leave, by supporting
       applications to the University’s Research Fellowship Scheme and supporting bids to
       external funding bodies (as reported in 2.1.4 UoA members have benefited from this
       scheme and from external funding).

 1.3.4 Research Strategy 2021-26

 During 2021-6 we plan to build on this by:

    1. As a UoA, further increasing our international reach and collaboration, and public access
       to our research and practice, through in person and virtual research seminars, and
       showcase events.

           o   In LCVS, building on our successes in funding for the long 19 th-century through
               development of new collaborative bids for research that has a positive impact.
           o   In the Creative Writing Theme, increasing our international and national reach by
               drawing in new and building on existing partnerships with festivals, publishers,
               charities, and the creative industries.
           o   In the new Language, Linguistics, and Translation Theme, including
               multilingualism, continuing to develop our research though external collaboration,
               and research funding.

    2. As a UoA, ensuring the sustainability of our research culture by investing in ECRs and by
       developing staff expertise and experience through mentoring, encouraging more members
       of the UoA to apply for promotion to Reader and Professor.

    3. As a UoA, continuing to grow our PGR community by recruiting a diverse body of PGRs
       across all three themes, recruiting strong candidates nationally and internationally, and by
       continuing to nurture our own BA and MA students towards PGR study.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Strategies for impact

 Collaboration is central to the strategy for impact within the UoA. Emphasis has been placed on
 building and sustaining partnerships with the cultural/heritage industries, publishers, the
 media, and charities to impact people, communities, and places. Partnerships with charities
 remain particularly important because the Unit’s strategy for research and impact is grounded in
 LTU’s mission for social justice and inclusion, embedded in its Mission Statement, which
 espouses ‘principles of dignity, respect, social justice, equality and inclusion … the University is
 here to make a difference to the people, the professions and the places that we serve’.

 The LCVS has longstanding collaborative relationships with regional museums and galleries such
 as the Abbey House Museum (Leeds), Leeds Library (Leeds), Thackray Medical Museum (Leeds),
 Brontë Parsonage Museum (Haworth), and Mercer Gallery (Harrogate). The UoA’s collaborations
 with cultural/heritage providers now reach the national level and include the Science Museum
 (London) (Sayer, Lister), Museum of English Rural Life (MERL) (Reading) (Sayer), Vagina
 Museum (London) (Lister) and Culture Vannin (Isle of Mann) (Storer).

 Researchers in the UoA have influenced publishers, internationally, nationally and locally:
 Creative writing researchers have collaborated with the International Poetry Studies Institute
 (IPSI), University of Canberra and the Prose Poetry Project (Hardwick), and with publishers
 including Recent Works Press, Valley Press, Stairwell Books, and Yaffle Press. Lister has used
 social media for impact and has also disseminated her research through a regular column in the
 ‘I’ (see ICS). Partnerships and collaborations with charities include: the Wellcome Trust (Sayer,
 Lister), Basis Yorkshire (Lister), Mind (Hardwick), Interact Stroke (Bedford, Alyal, Hardwick)
 National Deaf Children’s Society, Action on Hearing Loss (Sayer), and Leeds Church Institute (de
 Gay).

 The focus on social justice in the LCVS has been developed strategically, beginning with the
 Austerities Project (2015), a series of seminars launched by Professor Rosemary Mitchell then
 Director of the LCVS: this brought together Storer, de Gay, Sayer, Hardwick and colleagues in
 TRS to engage members of the local community in dialogue about how humanities subjects could
 address issues such as disability and exclusion, the Occupy Movement, foodbanks, and global
 poverty. Researchers in LCVS have gone on to use their insights into the social, cultural and
 literary history of the long 19th-century to advocate for the rights, opportunities, inclusion, and
 quality of life of disadvantaged groups, including sex workers and those with hearing loss. These
 include Sayer’s work with the Thackray Medical Museum on assistive devices and de Gay’s use
 of her research on Virginia Woolf and Christianity to engage church groups on questions of social
 justice and inclusion. This concern for social justice is reflected in both Impact Case Studies for
 the UoA: Lister’s work on sex workers and the work of Creative Writers in nurturing aspiring
 writers from a range of backgrounds to find their voices and get published.

 1.5 Open Access (OA)

 The UoA recognises the importance of creating an open research environment for its research to
 benefit a wider community. The LCVS was instrumental in moving the Journal of Victorian Culture
 towards OA, which uses APCs, read and publish agreements, and the Journal of Victorian Culture
 Online. All members of the UoA maintain their personal profiles on the University’s institutional
 repository, the PURE CRIS system. The UoA has three Gold OA publications, by Hardwick,
 Taylor-Batty and Sayer. All publications from Sayer’s WT National Collaborative Award will be
 OA, as required by the Wellcome Trust.

 1.6. Research Ethics and Integrity

 The UoA requires all staff and PGRs to undertake an online training programme on research ethics
 and integrity developed by the University of Leeds (UoL) and run through FutureLearn. Staff and
 PGRs in the UoA apply for ethical approval for new projects and funding bids via the School’s
 Research Ethics and Integrity Subcommittee (REISC). PGRs submit a Research Ethics Self-

                                                                                              Page 4
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Assessment form within 3 months of registration, followed by a full Application to SCBL REISC
     where necessary.

     The UoA recognises the importance of research ethics and integrity, including professional
     engagement with archivists and the scholarly community, responsible use of archival and
     copyrighted material, transparency in the use of data and sources, sensitive handling of personal
     information according to GDPR, and an awareness of the importance of risk assessment and
     health and safety during field-trips and archival visits. Particular care was taken, both by the REISC
     and the Executive, over ethical approval for Lister’s research into sex work, with regard to the use
     of sensitive material and the risks to vulnerable people.

     2. People

     2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development:

     The UoA recognises the importance of staffing to growing a research culture and it supports
     the ambitions stated in the People Plan 2018-2021 to recognise the link between the wellbeing of
     our staff and students and our overall success. In accordance with our collegial and
     collaborative approach, we place emphasis on valuing staff, enabling them to progress in their
     research by encouraging engagement with formal training, providing mentoring and peer-
     support, and mitigating potential causes of inequality, as well as having clear criteria for
     promotion to encourage and reward research successes.

     2.1.1 Staff recruitment and promotion

        •   The English team has a good track-record for staff retention: all 6 Category A staff returned
            in REF2014 are still in post.
        •   Staff recruitment has been strong, with 9.2 FTE (as opposed to 6 in REF2014).
        •   Two ECRs (Hermeston and Walz) have been recruited on permanent contracts to develop
            research expertise in Language and Linguistics.
        •   The UoA has been successful in implementing its strategies for mentoring and supporting
            its staff, thereby contributing to the discipline. This is evidenced in the case of Lister. Lister
            was an undergraduate and PGR at LTU: during the reporting period she has completed
            her PhD, completed a Postdoctoral Fellowship, and been appointed as a Lecturer through
            open competition (since the census date, she has been promoted to Senior Lecturer).
            Lister has been mentored in her research for Whores of Yore, which established the
            groundwork for the subsequent publication of her best-selling book A Curious History of
            Sex (2020).
        •   Through our collegial approach, the UoA contributed to the career progression of Dr Helen
            Kingstone, who came to LTU as a PGR co-supervised by Uglow and was subsequently
            appointed Postdoctoral Fellow. Lister and Kingstone collaborated on several projects
            including fostering a community among PGRs within the UoA, teaching on the MA and
            organising an LCVS day conference on Victorian objects (2015), that resulted in jointly
            edited book Paraphernalia! Victorian Objects (Routledge 2018). Whilst at LTU, Kingstone
            published a monograph Victorian Narratives of the Recent Past: memory, history, fiction
            (Palgrave Macmillan, 2017), before going on to a lectureship at the University of Glasgow
            and then Research Fellowship at the University of Surrey.
        •   One member of the UoA (de Gay) was promoted to Professor during the reporting period,
            under the University’s published promotions scheme. She has since provided mentoring
            for colleagues within and outside of the UoA.
•
     2.1.2 Staff development

        •   Research is an item considered within appraisal (Performance and Development Review)
            and time is allocated for research in Workload Planners.
        •   Research mentoring is available for all new staff. In 2020, the Pathways scheme was


                                                                                                       Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        implemented to provide a career framework for academic staff, aiming to provide a clearer
        structure for development and progression for all academic colleagues currently on Grades
        7 and 8. UoA members have both provided and received mentoring.
    •   The UoA has been proactive in setting up networks to promote research across LTU.
        These include Writing Groups that meet at scheduled times in a physical or virtual room,
        to enable staff and PGRs to write and research in a collegial atmosphere and to share
        research and time-management tips, and a Research Café that meets once a month
        (initially in person, now virtually), to enable colleagues from across LTU to exchange ideas,
        share good national and international practice and support one another in research.

 2.1.3. Staff Training

    •   UoA members are actively encouraged to engage with the training programme offered by
        the LTU Research KE Office. Members are also encouraged to attend courses at UoL and
        training provided by GuildHE and CREST, with fees paid by LTU.
    •   Staff have undergone formal training in PGR supervision and examination.
    •   Training has also been delivered through mentoring: all PGRs at LTU are supervised by
        teams, which means that colleagues new to supervision (classified as Model 2 supervisors)
        can be guided by more experienced colleagues (classified as Model 1 supervisors), who
        have achieved at least 1 PhD completion. Initially, all supervisory teams had to include a
        mentor from UoL (the Accrediting institution). However, after several successful
        completions, the UoL have allowed supervisory teams to be made up entirely of LTU staff,
        which is a sign of maturity.
    •   Through taking this team approach, the UoA has grown its pool of Model 1 supervisors to
        7: Alyal, Bedford, de Gay, Hardwick, Sayer, Taylor-Batty and Uglow. In September
        2020, de Gay was appointed Deputy Director of Postgraduate Studies for LTU, with
        responsibility for coordinating research training and building a postgraduate community.

 2.1.4. Research Support and Leave

 Staff in the UoA received c. £16,000 in financial support for research collaborations, networks and
 partnerships through the Research Development Scheme and the Financial Support for
 Conference Attendance scheme, by which each member of staff may apply for funding to attend
 one national and one international conference each year: the expectation is that staff should
 present research and produce a publication, and criteria for international travel include a specific
 expectation that the member of staff will engage in networking.

 Members of the UoA benefited from the University’s Research Fellowship Scheme, to a total of
 ~£1,400. Storer was awarded periods of research leave in 2014-15 and 2015-16 and Taylor-
 Batty was awarded research leave in 2015-16 and received a Research Support Grant in 2017-
 18. Sayer was bought out of some of her teaching during 2015-16 through seed-funding from the
 Wellcome Trust for her project ‘Thinking Forward through the Past’.

 2.2. Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs)

 2.2.1 Recruitment

 The UoA has increased its PGR community by 500% as the result of a strategy that aims to
 develop staff, give opportunities to young researchers (including creating a climate of ambition
 among our strongest BA and MA students), and grow the vibrancy and sustainability of the Unit.
 To further this objective, the UoA has put in competitive bids for the doctoral studentships that
 LTU has offered to increase PGR numbers across the institution: the UoA has had a good track-
 record of success and 8 of the PGRs recruited in the reporting period have come from this route.
 Another is funded as a Graduate Teaching Assistant. Three are self-funded and one has a fee-
 waiver under a scholarship scheme for LTU graduates. In line with our strategy of creating a
 climate of achievement, 4 PGRs were outstanding graduates from our Masters programmes and
 1 PGR was a BA graduate. 6 were outstanding external candidates recruited through the

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studentship competition. General recruitment for PGRs is advertised via the University website
 and staff willingness to take PhD researchers is indicated on their personal profiles: 3 PGRs were
 recruited through this.

 2.2.2 Integration of PGRs into research culture

 The UoA has worked strategically to integrate PGRs into its research culture to create a vibrant
 and inclusive research community. Researchers in LCVS and Creative Writing have provided
 PGRs with opportunities to engage in seminars, international conferences, readings and
 workshops, to organise events, and edit and contribute to blogs and anthologies (such as the
 LCVS Blog, the LTU-wide Explorers blog, the annual Wordspace anthology and a volume in the
 LCVS Working papers series on Imagining the Victorians).

 Two international conferences held by the UoA have provided particular opportunities for PGRs:

    a) The International Virginia Woolf Conference 2016 was co-organised by REUS and
       BRECKIN working alongside de Gay on all aspects from assessing abstracts to editing the
       Selected Papers. Other PGRs chaired panels, gave papers and wrote blog postings. We
       also drew several undergraduate students into the conference on work placements, as a
       way of engaging them in the research culture and raising aspirations: one of these students
       is now a PGR.

    b) The British Association for Victorian Studies (BAVS) Conference 2015 involved all the
       LCVS PGRs: chairing panels, giving papers, and working on front of house.

 PGRs have been encouraged to develop their own initiatives: for example, one conference was
 organised entirely by PGRs PADGETT and BASDEO: ‘Pernicious Trash? Victorian Popular
 Literature, c.1830-c.1880’ (2016).

 UoA members have involved their PGRs in external networks: Sayer involved GANN in her
 collaboration with the Thackray Medical Museum to redesign its Victorian Street. Gann’s thesis
 examined Victorian Street Scenes in museums and the Thackray Medical Museum had formed
 one of his case studies (for his thesis, he interviewed its original designer, Ian Dawson, as well as
 curators). Gann specifically offered guidance on issues of disability access for neurodiverse
 visitors, and representation of societal issues including disability and health/disease, based on his
 research.

 2.2.3 PGR Publications

 PGRs are encouraged and supported to get their work published. Several PGRs have published
 in peer-reviewed journals and collections before completing their theses. For example, CLEMENS
 published “Making flowers”: the first English translation of a short story by Dutch modernist Carry
 van Bruggen in Feminist Modernist Studies and REUS and BRECKIN had chapters published in
 the peer-reviewed collection, Virginia Woolf and the World of Books eds. Nicola Wilson and
 Claire Battershill (Liverpool University Press, 2018). Staff in the UoA have drawn their PGRs into
 editing projects: BRECKIN and REUS co-edited Virginia Woolf and Heritage (Clemson University
 Press/Liverpool University Press, 2017), with de Gay, and since graduating, CLEMENS has been
 co-editing and contributing to a cluster of essays on ‘Eliot and Europe’ with Taylor-Batty for the
 T.S. Eliot Annual (forthcoming 2021).

 Creative Writing PGRs engage in local and national publishing networks, meeting agents and
 publishers, and they have a good track record of getting published. For example, STOCKDALE
 published The Glower of the Sun (Red Squirrel, 2019), and he planned and co-edited An
 Insubstantial Universe with Alyal, an anthology of poems for the George Eliot bicentenary (Yaffle
 Press, 2020), a collaboration with LCVS. MISTRY published several novels in the DI Gus McGuire
 series, including Uncommon Cruelty and Unseen Evil as well as “Expanding the Creative
 Narrative: Why it Matters,” Writing in Practice 6 (2020) (pp. 63-80).

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As a result of this nurturing, two have had the ‘book of the thesis’ accepted for publication shortly
 after graduating: BASDEO, The Life and Legend of an Outlaw: Robin Hood (Barnsley: Pen and
 Sword, 2019), and REUS, Virginia Woolf and Nineteenth-Century Women Writers: Victorian
 Legacies and Literary Afterlives (under contract with Edinburgh University Press).

 2.2.4 PGR Training and Professional Development

 The UoA encourages its PGRs to attend institutional-level research training sessions, research
 seminars across the University, and the annual workshop or masterclass offered by the LCVS
 Visiting Professor. Most of our PGRs have also completed the in-house Postgraduate
 Certificate in Teaching at Higher Education Level programme, with associated application to
 Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. PGRs are encouraged to attend training
 sessions at UoL (with their fees covered by LTU), as well as using free online training courses
 and resources provided by the University of East Anglia and the Researcher Development
 Framework through LTU’s membership of GuildHE Research Shared Services. LCVS doctoral
 candidates are encouraged to join BAVS and engage in its professionalisation workshops.
 PGRs are encouraged and supported to attend national and international conferences, and they
 have received funding from the Postgraduate Researchers Support Fund (total of c. £13,000).
 The UoA has also given PGRs ample opportunities for professionalisation through shadowing staff
 and observing lectures, as well as gaining experience in giving seminars and lectures.

 As a result of this training, 4 PGRs progressed directly to University posts. CLEMENS gained a
 Lectureship at University of Utrecht; REUS became a tutor and researcher at TU Dresden,
 Germany; BASDEO became Lecturer on the Richmond American International University's Leeds
 campus and CHATTERJEE (whose name appeared on the pass list after the census date) was
 awarded a Postdoctoral Fellowship at TU Darmstadt, Germany.

 2.2.5 PGR Support and monitoring

 PGRs in the UoA are encouraged to make use of University support services described in REF5a,
 including support with study skills and mental health, and advice on finance and housing.

 Supervisors in the UoA follow the formal monitoring process described in REF5a, through regular
 supervision meetings, a training plan, the transfer process, and annual reviews, keeping formal
 records. They meet with their PGRs regularly, in most cases exceeding the minimum requirements
 for formal meetings (10 times p.a. for FT; 12 times for international PGRs, and 6 times for PT),
 while LCVS Seminars and Wordspace create opportunities for regular informal contact. As a result
 of support and careful monitoring of progress, the UoA has a good track-record for student
 progress and 100% of our PGR completions passed their Viva at first attempt.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Inclusion, diversity, and social justice are at the heart of the research strategy of the institution and
 the UoA. One member serves on the University-wide Race Equality Charter (REC) Group,
 scrutinising practices and pedagogy in the light of racial equality, which contributed in 2020 to
 LTU’s achievement of the Race Equality Charter Bronze Award. In line with institutional policies
 for Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion, the UoA operates in a way that is ‘genuinely inclusive’ and
 ensures ‘equitable treatment’ for all staff and PGRs, and as per the University’s Code of Practice,
 all staff involved in the Unit’s decision making for REF2021 have completed REF-specific Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion training.

 As part of the Mindful Employer network, the University is a signatory to the Charter for Employers
 who are Positive about Mental Health, and UoA researchers have made use of Wellbeing advice
 via a bespoke website. Staff are also encouraged to make use of the Employee Assistance
 Programme that provides access to support with issues including employment, health,
 relationships, and finance. UoA members have engaged with a designated Microsoft Teams site
 set up to promote staff wellbeing during the Covid-19 pandemic.

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA members with disabilities have accessed specialist software and equipment and support
 workers, to enable them to research productively. UoA members with caring responsibilities have
 been supported to make flexible working arrangements. Members have also engaged with Staff
 Equality Networks for women; staff with disabilities; international; BAME and LGBT+ staff,
 particularly those for women, and for staff with disabilities (54.4% of staff in the UoA are female
 and 18.2% consider themselves disabled).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income

 Sayer is a PI on a Wellcome Trust National Collaborative Award worth £1.5 million: ‘Thinking
 forward through the past: Linking science, social science and the humanities to inform the
 sustainable reduction of endemic disease in British livestock farming’ (2018-22). LTU was
 awarded c. £223,000 of this, and so far, it has received £89,000. Sayer did the groundwork for
 this successful bid through her MERL Fellowship (c. £11,000, 2014-16) and seed-funding from the
 Wellcome Trust (c. £2,000, 2016-17).

 Taylor Batty received a British Academy small grant (2015-16) of c. £5,000 for archival work at
 the University of Tulsa (for REF2 Taylor-Batty1 and Taylor-Batty2). Storer received £500 from
 Culture Vannin (Isle of Man cultural agency) for research in Manx National Heritage Archive.

 3.2 Investment

 The University has invested in research by the UoA through the PGR studentships (c.£17,000 p.a.
 per studentship), the Research Development Fund and the Financial Support for Conference
 Attendance. In addition to this financial support, staff and students have access to the print and
 electronic resources of the LTU library, as well as the opportunity to access further material via
 inter-library loans and to use other University libraries under the SCONUL scheme. Staff and
 PGRs also have individual access to the UoL Libraries including its Special Collections in the
 Brotherton Library, paid for by LTU.

 LTU provides support-in-kind for conferences and seminars, including free use of rooms, IT
 facilities and technical support, as well as support from the Events Co-ordinator, Press Officer and
 marketing team for high-profile events. Additionally, the LCVS has used its JVC income of c.
 £21,000 during the reporting period to fund conferences, publications, and the Visiting Professor.
 It also has a good track record of securing small grants typically c. £200 from organisations such
 as BAVS and the British Society for the History of Science to support conferences.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration

 4.1.1 Strategy for collaboration

 The UoA’s strategy is to generate interdisciplinary research and facilitate international
 collaborations, with the aim of producing impactful research that makes a difference to society.
 This accords with LTU’s University Research Strategy: ‘We will engage in research that is true to
 our mission, vision and values in collaboration and partnership with other Universities,
 organisations, professional communities and individuals that seek to make a positive impact in
 society locally, regionally, nationally and internationally.’ By collaborating with academics beyond
 LTU, we have contributed to the vitality of the research culture, making the most of national and
 international resources. International collaborations have enhanced the reputation of LTU, leading
 to further invitations to speak, examine theses and peer review.

 4.1.1.1 The LCVS has established a reputation for collaborations and conferences that are well-
 supported by colleagues within LTU and that attract participants nationally and internationally. It

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has established a reputation for academic excellence: publishers and the media regularly turn to
 the LCVS for expertise and the Centre has a good track-record of engaging leading scholars to
 take part in its activities, such as Harriet Ritvo (MIT, Boston, USA) who spoke at an LCVS seminar
 and offered a PGRs’ career workshop, and most notably as Visiting Professors including Bernard
 Lightman (York University, Canada), Herbert Tucker, (University of Virginia, USA) and Miles
 Taylor, (University of York, UK). During the reporting period, it made a deliberate strategy of
 furthering its links with University of Cergy-Pontoise, Paris, Hull University and Huddersfield
 University through the Northern Nineteenth-Century Network. One output from this was the
 collection Victorian Cultures of Liminality: Borders and Margins (Cambridge Scholars Press,
 2018), which grew out of an NNCN/LCVS event and was edited by Alyal, Dr Susan Anderson
 (Sheffield Hallam University) and Mitchell, and included chapters by Hardwick, Uglow (REF2,
 Uglow1), Sayer, BASDEO, and TRS colleague, Dr Hannah Hunt, as well as colleagues from
 NNCN.

 On the strength of its reputation for hosting successful conferences, and through fostering links
 with BAVS, the LCVS was chosen to host the annual BAVS conference for 2015. This high-profile
 event was also used to mark the 21 st anniversary of the LCVS: the theme ‘Victorian Age(s)’, being
 chosen to highlight this coming-of-age. The conference was organised by Mitchell and Kingstone
 (LCVS Director and Research Fellow at the time), with the participation and support of colleagues
 and PGRs across the UoA. A further LCVS conference, ‘Science and Spiritualism, 1750-1930’,
 was held in 2019 collaboratively organised by Dr Efram Sera-Shriar (Science Museum), Mitchell
 and de Gay.

 4.1.1.2 The reputation of the LCVS for effective conferences was instrumental in de Gay’s
 successful bid to host the International Virginia Woolf Conference at LTU (2016). As this
 conference had normally been held in North America, the reputation of LCVS for conferences was
 instrumental in persuading the international committee to accept our bid. The event also grew from
 networks that de Gay had built with the International Virginia Woolf Society and the Virginia Woolf
 Society of Great Britain through regular conference attendance, sponsored by the University. The
 theme of ‘Virginia Woolf and Heritage’, was chosen to draw on the LCVS connections with the
 heritage industry (international, national and local partners included the Brontë Parsonage
 Museum, Leeds Library, Giggleswick School, Charleston, Washington State University, Smith
 College Massachusetts, and the New York Public Library). A further partner was the AHRC-
 sponsored ‘Woolf and Music’ Project, a collaboration between pianist Lana Bode (Trinity Laban
 Conservatoire) and Dr Emma Sutton (University of St Andrews), who put on a concert of new
 music inspired by Virginia Woolf’s work. The conference gave rise to two books: the conference
 proceedings, and The Edinburgh Companion to Virginia Woolf and Contemporary Global
 Literature, ed. Jeanne Dubino and Paulina Pajak (Edinburgh University Press, forthcoming 2021),
 which grew from a significant strand of research on international heritage presented at the
 conference. The event secured the reputation of LTU for modernism and Woolf Studies, and it has
 given rise to opportunities for staff and has attracted new PGRs (since the census date, Marielle
 O’Neill has begun a PhD on Woolf at LTU).

 4.1.1.3 Strategic partnerships between the heritage industry and the LCVS provided the foundation
 for Sayer’s long-standing relationship with Thackray Medical Museum, Leeds, who invited her to
 interpret their national-level collection of assistive hearing devices, as a historian with a track record
 of working closely with artists, heritage providers and museums such as MERL at the national
 level. Work with the museum, and engaging d/Deaf and hard-of-hearing communities in Leeds, liaison
 with Action on Hearing Loss and the National Deaf Children’s Society resulted in the co-authored
 Managing the Experience of Hearing Loss, 1830-1930, (Palgrave Macmillan 2017) (REF2,
 Sayer2) in collaboration with Professor Graeme Gooday (UoL).

 This networking and these strategic partnerships between LCVS and the heritage industry
 underpinned Sayer’s successful application for a stipendiary MERL Fellowship, which she drew
 on to build a relationship with King’s College London, Newcastle University, University of Hull,
 University of Edinburgh, Glasgow University, and to bring MERL in as a collaborative heritage
 partner on two successful Wellcome Trust grant applications – one Seed Grant and one

                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary National Collaborative Award ‘Thinking forward through the past’. These were
 forged from links with the Agricultural History Society (US), the History of Science Society meeting
 (Boston, USA), and the American Environmental History Society, the biannual EURHO Rural
 History conferences, and biannual ESSRC conferences. ‘Thinking forward through the past’, for
 which she is a PI runs until 2022; the first output is ‘The Changing Landscape of Labour: Work
 and Livestock in Post-Second World War British Agriculture’ (REF2, Sayer1).

 4.1.1.4 Research in the Creative Writing Theme at LTU has attained international standing through
 collaboration with colleagues in Australia, the US, Europe and South-East Asia as well as the UK.
 Hardwick has been associated with the International Poetry Studies Institute (IPSI), University of
 Canberra, for 5 years, which brings together scholars to research and disseminate the theory and
 practice of prose poetry and workshop creative material. Through this collaboration, Hardwick was
 invited to join the Prose Poetry Project, which comprises 20 poets from across Australia, Israel,
 Singapore and the UK. Developed by Prof Paul Hetherington, University of Canberra, this project
 focuses on the creative practice of prose poetry, and it has resulted in creative publications in
 collaboration with Recent Works Press, Australia. Through networking with IPSI, Hardwick is
 producing an edited volume Prose Poetry in Theory and Practice (under contract with Routledge).

 Connections with the Prose Poetry Group at IPSI have also led to Hardwick being invited to
 national and international events and symposia. These include an invitation to speak on ekphrasis
 at the Art and Soul Conference at the University of Winchester (2019), organised by Professor
 Andrew Melrose, where Hardwick spoke alongside academics from the US, UK and Australia.
 Publications are pending from this project. Hardwick also collaborated with Dr Anne Caldwell
 (Open University) to organise the first-ever UK conference on Prose Poetry: the International
 Prose Poetry Symposium (LTU, 2019). This event, which drew academics and practitioners from
 Europe, the US and Australia, was funded as part of an Arts Council England project, which gave
 rise to The Valley Press Anthology of Prose Poetry, edited by Hardwick and Caldwell (2019), and
 featured new writers alongside poets of international standing.

 Hardwick has also initiated and developed international networks of medievalist poets through
 his participation in The International Congress on Medieval Studies at Western Michigan
 University. His edited volume New Crops from Old Fields: Eight Medievalist Poets (Stairwell
 Books, 2015), featuring the work of poets from the US and UK, resulted from this collaboration.

 Nationally, Hardwick has collaboratively edited several anthologies, including The Valley Press
 Anthology of Yorkshire Poetry with Miles Salter (Valley Press, 2017), which was a 2017 National
 Poetry Day Recommendation. Hardwick and Alyal have contributed to discussions of creativity
 within and without the curriculum through their participation – both academic and organisational –
 in National Association of Writers in Education (NAWE) conferences. This led to Hardwick hosting
 a NAWE Networking Event at LTU (2019).

 Bedford has developed high-profile national interdisciplinary collaborations through the science-
 into-fiction and history-into-fiction initiatives from Comma Press. Bedford wrote the short story ‘The
 Sayer of the Sooth’ (in Beta Life: Stories from an A-Life Future (Comma Press, 2014)) in a
 collaboration on artificial intelligence with Dr James O’Shea (Manchester Metropolitan University),
 and ‘My Soul to Keep’ (in Spindles: Stories from the Science of Sleep (Comma Press, 2015)) in
 collaboration with Professor Ed Watkins (Psychology, University of Exeter). Bedford’s story
 ‘Withen’ (in Protest: Stories of Resistance (Comma Press, 2017)), a collaboration with Professor
 David Waddington (History, Sheffield Hallam University), was chosen by Doctor Who actor
 Christopher Eccleston to read at the online book launch.

 4.1.1.5 International collaboration is integral to the UoA’s research in language, linguistics and
 translation. Taylor-Batty has collaborated internationally with the Polish Academy of Sciences,
 Warsaw, and nationally with the UoL and University of Sheffield. In 2015 and 2017, Taylor-Batty
 was invited to collaborate as co-I on two international funding proposals to HERA (Humanities in
 the European Research Area) and ERC (European Research Council) respectively (both circa
 €1,000,000). Taylor-Batty was a keynote speaker at the conference organised by her colleagues

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in Warsaw: ‘Poetics of (Mis)understanding conference’ (2017). A book chapter based on her
 keynote was published in a collection edited by the PI and Co-Is. Taylor-Batty is currently building
 on this to develop an interdisciplinary project with collaborators from the UoL and Sheffield, looking
 at literary multilingualism from the perspectives of linguistics, language education and theatre.

 4.2 Contributions to research base

 UoA members have contributed to the wider research base by sharing their research and expertise
 with the academic community beyond LTU. These interactions, in turn, enrich the research culture
 within the UoA.

 4.2.1. Keynotes and invited talks

 Lister has given four keynote talks on sex work at conferences since 2018, including one at the
 London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Taylor-Batty has given keynotes at the
 international conferences in Warsaw and Oslo, and five invited talks including one at the
 Sorbonne. Sayer’s invited talks include a seminar at MIT on ‘Thinking Forward Through the Past:
 Requiem for the Farm Animal’ and de Gay has given a seminar at Harvard Divinity School on
 Woolf and Christianity. Storer has given an invited talk on Hall Caine in an event organised by
 University of Liverpool Centre for Manx Studies, and an invited talk on F.R. Leavis at the University
 of York. Members have been invited to join expert roundtable discussions nationally at the
 University of Oxford and the UoL (Taylor-Batty), and internationally at the American Academy of
 Religion, San Diego (de Gay).

 4.2.2. Fellowships and residencies

 UoA members take their research to other universities and scholarly institutions on a longer-term
 basis through fellowships and residencies. Sayer is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society;
 Visiting Fellow in the School of Philosophy, Religion and History of Science, UoL; Visiting
 Research Fellow at the Department of History, Kings College London; and from 2014-15 she was
 stipendiary Gwyn E. Jones Fellow at MERL.

 Within Creative Writing, Bedford was Royal Literary Fund Fellowship, UoL (2018–2019).
 Hardwick’s 5-year association with IPSI, Canberra has led to opportunities including an invited
 talk for ‘Poetry on the Move: Inhabiting Language’ (2018) and an invited talk at ‘Art and Soul’,
 University of Winchester (2019). Member’s contributions have also been acknowledged in the
 award of prizes including the Coventry Inspiration Book Award 2017 (Bedford) and the Sentinel
 Annual Poetry Prize 2014 and Rubery International Book Award 2019 (Hardwick).

 4.2.2 Peer reviewing, examining and judging

 UoA members have an influence on the future direction of research in their areas by peer
 reviewing manuscripts, book proposals, grant applications and journal articles. Members
 have reviewed for publishers Routledge, Palgrave Macmillan (de Gay, Sayer, Taylor-Batty);
 Edinburgh University Press (de Gay); Cambridge University Press, McFarland Publishing
 (Hardwick); Manchester University Press (Sayer, Hardwick); McGill-Queens University Press,
 White Horse Press (Sayer); Amherst College Press and Brill (Taylor-Batty). They guide future
 research by peer-reviewing grant applications: Sayer has reviewed applications for the ESRC,
 Marie Curie, and the University of Leuven, Belgium. Members nurture research outside the
 institution by peer-reviewing articles for JVC (de Gay, Storer); Woolf Studies Annual, Tulsa
 Studies in Women’s Literature, Journal of Victorian Studies, International Journal of the Book, and
 Postgraduate English (de Gay); Axon, Speculum, Writing in Practice (Hardwick); Agricultural
 History Review, Agricultural History, Social and Cultural History (Sayer); Journal of the History of
 Ideas (Storer); Modernism/Modernity, Journal of World Literature, Comparative Critical Studies,
 CLC Web: Comparative Literature and Culture, Studies in the Novel, Pilgrimages: The Journal of
 Dorothy Richardson Studies, and Symplokē (Taylor-Batty); and Discourse, Context & Media


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Walz). De Gay, Hardwick, Lister, Sayer, Storer and Taylor-Batty have all supported new
 researchers as external examiners for PhD theses.

 Researchers in Creative Writing support a diverse international generation of new writers by
 judging entries for prizes. Bedford was a member of the judging panel for the children’s
 category and main prize panel for the Costa Book Awards 2015; he judged the Leeds Writers’
 Circle short-story competition, 2019; and was Chair of Judges for the Dinesh Allirajah Prize for
 Short Fiction 2020. Hardwick has judged a number of international competitions: Aesthetica
 Creative Writing Award, The Daniil Pashkoff Prize (Germany), Poetry on the Lake Short Poetry
 Award (Italy), Segora Flash Fiction Award (France), The Vice-Chancellor’s Poetry Prize
 (University of Canberra).

 4.2.3. Committees

 UoA members encourage excellence in research by sitting on prize committees: for example,
 Sayer is a judge on the Fite Dissertation Prize Committee, Agricultural History Society (US) and
 has judged for the Joan Thirsk Prize Committee (for the Best Book in British or Irish Rural or
 Agrarian History), British Agricultural History Society (BAHS). Other committees supported by the
 UoA include: NAWE HE Committee (Hardwick); Executive Committee, BAMS and Organising
 Committee, Northern Modernism Seminar (Taylor-Batty); the International Virginia Woolf
 Conference Committee (de Gay); BAHS (2015-19), and UK Representative to the International
 Federation of Research in Women’s History (Sayer, ex-officio WHN Steering Committee member
 2014-19). Lister is on the Board of the Vagina Museum.

 4.3 Public Engagement and contributions to society and the economy

 The UoA puts three key principles of public engagement into practice: informing and inspiring the
 public, engaging with stakeholders, and drawing the public into collaboration with our research.
 Our public engagement is developed in partnership with local and national charities and heritage
 organisations. Social justice is at the heart of our public engagement, and UoA members are
 engaged with diverse communities outside the academy, including sex workers, the d/Deaf
 communities, Leeds’ West Indian community, inner-city schools, and stroke patients.

 Four examples are offered here:

 4.3.1 Lister’s Whores of Yore website, along with its associated twitter feed, is a public
 engagement resource that informs the public about the history of sex and sex-workers, as well as
 interesting and inspiring viewers through carefully-curated stories and illustrations that challenge
 their attitudes and perceptions. It is also public engagement in the sense of collaboration, as Lister
 takes a democratic approach to the contributors she publishes, including writings by sex workers,
 activists, artists, and therapists as well as academics. Her use of social media particularly
 encourages the public to engage in debate and to share insights and examples. Lister has
 developed particular collaborative projects with Basis Yorkshire, working with them to develop the
 online timeline, ‘The History of Sex Work’, and on an oral history project supported by the Rosa
 Fund, Our Voice: Perspectives to Challenge Stigma and Stereotypes Around Sex Work (Leeds:
 Delta, 2017), for which Lister was the consultant. As described in the ICS, Lister’s work has made
 a contribution to society by changing public attitudes to sex and sex work and by providing
 research to support Leeds Council’s Managed Approach to street sex work. Lister’s work has also
 had an economic benefit by helping to raise money for Basis Yorkshire by publicising a fundraising
 event that made £40,000, and by donating the £7,949 proceeds of her book, A Curious History of
 Sex to them.

 4.3.2 Sayer’s Wellcome Trust Project ‘Thinking Forward through the Past’ has public engagement
 as part of its core funding, for the public are factored as creative participants in events such as the
 Being Human Festival (2019), the Royal Institution ‘You and the Planet’ (2020), agricultural shows,
 and ‘games’ in markets. Sayer and the Wellcome Trust researchers also engage with, and report
 to, stakeholders through an advisory group that includes DEFRA, veterinarians, and farmers.

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.3.3 Sayer’s research on hearing loss cultures was conducted in collaboration with the Thackray
 Medical Museum (see 4.1.1.3), and she has had an impact on the presentation of hearing assistive
 devices within the collection, and consequently on the public understanding of hearing loss. She is
 involved in accessioning new donations to the collection and advised on a redisplay that was
 carried out in 2020, though its opening has been delayed by lockdown. Sayer has informed the
 public at presentations at the Science Museum London, Leeds City Museum, and the Thackray
 Medical Museum. She has also provided training for health professionals, including delivering a 4-
 hour session to 20 international trainee audiologists at the annual training event (IPAB) organised
 by the UoL Medical School.

 4.3.4 Creative Writing Theme researchers engage with the public through high-profile, public-
 facing events including the annual Writers’ Festival Day and Wordspace, as well as in schools’
 visits, literary festivals and workshops. Additionally, they have collaborated with organisations over
 particular initiatives, including:

    a) Bedford’s short-story collection, Letters Home, was included in the books used in the
       “Time to Read” scheme run by the North West Libraries Reader Development Partnership
       (January-June 2020). This project involves public library authorities in Cumbria,
       Lancashire, Cheshire, Greater Manchester and Merseyside, working together to promote
       reading and reader development activity among adults aged 16+.

    b) Alyal, Hardwick and Bedford have supported the stroke charity Interact by writing stories
       commissioned by ‘A Thousand Word Photos,’ a national creative project in which
       photographers and writers collaborate to create original fiction. The stories (each of which
       is exactly 1000 words long) are published in an online library and read by actors to stroke
       patients at hospitals across London. Bedford’s story “The Interaction” (2018) was paired
       with a photograph by Chloe Dewe Matthews, Hardwick “Primavera” (2019) with a
       photograph by Alexander Parkyn-Smith, and Alyal’s “Escape from Gravity” (2019) with a
       photograph by Yigit Gunel. Bedford’s story was also performed on stage by an actor at a
       fund-raising event for the charity at the Arcola Theatre, London (February 2020).

    c) Hardwick worked with Mind (the mental health charity), as an invited reader at Mindfest,
       reading and talking about his poems relating to mental health issues online to a live
       audience of nearly 800. Organiser Holly Taymar-Bilton described Hardwick’s contribution
       as ‘the perfect fit for Mindfest York. His easy, measured way of describing real people,
       easily relatable to, with complete authenticity, made his performance utterly compelling.’

 These examples of public engagement further demonstrate the importance of social justice to the
 research produced by the UoA, to its dissemination and its benefits for users.




                                                                                               Page 14
