Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: King’s College London

 Unit of Assessment: 3

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview
Our allied and applied health research transforms health, quality of life and care across dentistry,
nursing, midwifery, palliative and end of life care, pharmacy, nutrition, women and children’s
health, diabetes and obesity, and related laboratory-based and applied clinical, health and social
sciences. Teams address complex, multi- and interdisciplinary health and social challenges.

This submission comprises 224.4 fte Principal Investigators (PIs; 248 headcount) from King’s
College London’s Health Faculties. It includes all PIs from two Faculties – Dental, Oral &
Craniofacial Sciences and Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care – plus all PIs in Pharmaceutical
Sciences and Life Course Sciences (Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine), and 5 PIs from the
King’s Workforce Research Unit (figure 1.1).

We lead global, international, national and local programmes. Avoiding silos, we collaborate
widely across King’s, working with staff from UOAs 1, 2, 4, 5 and 24 in multiple faculties, and with
partners, patients and the public, embracing ‘mind and body’ research.

This REF period has seen a marked rise in UOA3 activity, research quality, impact, staff
development and diversity. Grant income climbed by 65% from £91M (REF2014) to £150M
(REF2021), with £60.2M (40%) from UKRI or the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR).
Illustrating the extent of our collaboration, total grant income involving UOA3 teams was >£345M
(section 3) over the same period. We have 380 PGR students currently registered, from 50
countries across six continents (section 2).




Figure 1.1 The breadth of research teams in UOA3 across King's Faculties, Schools, Institutes
and Departments, plus key infrastructure (REF5a).

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.2 Strategic Aims for Research and Impact in UOA3

UOA3 PIs are united by our vision to make the world a better place through applied health
and translational research, its impacts, our education and by service to society.

We deliver scientifically informed solutions to health and care problems through research of the
highest rigour, significance and originality with five key principles:

•   Enquiry-driven research of high-quality and high-impact that builds knowledge to transform
    health, treatments and care and leads policy, practice and industry.

•   An inclusive environment where every individual is valued and able to succeed, encouraging
    diversity, open mindedness, respect and tolerance.

•   Research that enables multi- and interdisciplinary collaborations, where staff and graduate
    students work together in themes unrestricted by discipline or department, leading to more
    holistic treatments and care.

•   Clinical/academic interaction, supported by our Academic Health Sciences Centre, King’s
    Health Partners (KHP), where outstanding research, education and clinical practice are unified
    for the benefit of patients, those important to them, care teams, and society.

•   Research that integrates impact to create new solutions for the diverse health and care
    challenges locally and globally, including the COVID-19 pandemic.

Our Integrated Translational Research Delivery pathway seeks to overcome traditional
implementation “blocks”, creating the links for rapid translation, and for research to be informed by
“reverse translation” from practice (figure 1.2).




Figure 1.2 Contribution of the different elements in UOA3 to translational research. Translation
involves cycles and feedback facilitating progression to clinical, policy and societal impact.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3 COVID-19 contributions

UOA3 teams led world-leading responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, highlighting our commitment
to immediate health care needs, support for vulnerable and disadvantaged populations, societal
impact, and the breadth of our disciplines and science.

We were at the centre of the COVID-19 response, which affected >3,000 patients across our
hospitals during the initial outbreak. Our PIs rapidly contributed to sector-leading outcomes for
our populations; COVID-19 inpatient mortality rates for our two acute National Health Service
(NHS) Trusts were lowest and third lowest nationally.

Spector and Steves (with King’s Healthcare Engineering) launched the COVID Symptom Tracker
App that transformed the understanding of COVID-19 presentation and symptoms and made an
acclaimed national contribution [Impact Case Study (ICS)05].

Pregnancy: Chappell worked with the RECOVERY trial team to enable participation of pregnant
women in COVID treatment trials. Sandall leads the UK arm of COCOON, a global study to
understand challenges and concerns of parents who are pregnant or have recently given birth
during the pandemic. von Dadelszen adapted the PRECISE cohort to assess COVID-19 impacts
on pregnant women in Africa, supplying PPE for staff and ensuring clean water supplies (figure
1.3).

Carter discovered the immunological basis of the multisystem inflammatory syndrome in
children (MIS-C) associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection

The ‘King’s Together’ (REF5a) scheme funded:1) a study to assess the impact of COVID-19 on
antenatal management, using routine electronic health records (Poston, Magee, Sandall), and 2)
another investigating influences of SARS-CoV-2 on the developing brain (Poston, Edwards).

The Centres for Oral, Clinical and Translational Sciences and Host-Microbiome Interactions led
research to enhance facemask effectiveness and more personalised PPE funded by the EPSRC
(Addison, Coward), to quantify aerosols associated with dentistry (Addison, Wade, Gallagher), to
understand COVID-19 risk perception (Asimakopoulou, Scambler), and to develop a salivary
secretory IgA assay to confirm a mucosal response to COVID-19 (Carpenter).

Page was seconded to NIHR/ACCORD to work on appraising and recommending which drugs
go into COVID-19 trials, an initiative flagged in the New England Journal of Medicine.

Rose, with Aetonix, developed Life Lines, a home care technology platform rolled out to
hospitals across the UK, enabling family members to see and speak with their loved ones and with
clinical teams, supported by ‘King’s Together’ (REF5a) and Guy’s and St Thomas’s charity.

Higginson, Harding,R, Sleeman, Bajwah and Maddocks led the local, national and international
palliative and end of life care response across high and low-and-middle-income countries,
producing new evidence on symptom and care experiences and clinical guidance. They launched
evidence for symptom management for people needing to shield with symptoms such as
breathlessness [ICS-02]. Their UKRI-supported CovPall study provides the first robust
understanding of care and symptom management for people dying from COVID-19.

Bajwah led the development of evidence-based fact sheets for patients and families affected by
COVID-19, co-designed with the European Lung Foundation (a patient led group). Recognising
the disproportionate impact on minority ethnic groups this was translated into 27 languages with
local and global dissemination [ICS-09].




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Rehabilitation during and after COVID-19 has been pioneered in research and guidance by
Turner-Stokes and Maddocks. Manthorpe researched the experiences of children’s social care and
how to keep children safe during the COVID-19 pandemic.

NIHR funded: Fitzpatrick to lead COVID-19 research into social distancing in care homes;
primary palliative care using the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (Gao), and palliative care
in care homes (Sleeman). COVID-19 impacts on Palliative Care delivery are being investigated
using the King’s Electronic Record Research Interface and co-designed community project of an
Integrated Palliative Care Partnership (Higginson, Donetto, with NHS Improvement London).

UKRI funded work led by Sturt with Harding,R and an international team is developing and
evaluating the upscaling of adapted and digitised remote consulting during the pandemic in
Tanzania, Nigeria, Uganda, Kenya and Rwanda.




Figure 1.3 Infographic illustrating response to COVID-19 by the PRECISE Network, led by King’s,
uniting research scientists and health advocates in the UK, Africa and World Health Organization
(WHO) with core UKRI funding

1.4 Evidence of progress against our REF2014 strategy: overall

Together, we have delivered our REF2014 plans. These were explained individually in three 2014
submissions totalling 187.6 fte. Since REF2014 we have invested to create groups with critical
mass, built infrastructure to support their functioning, and have developed and included early
career researchers and PhD students.

We have intensified multi- and interdisciplinary research, both within and beyond UOA3 (section 3).
We created strategic approaches to wide multi-sector partnership, actively engaged with patients’
and stakeholders’ needs, innovated research methods and accentuated both significance and
reach. Equality, diversity and inclusion is embedded in all activities (section 2).

King’s publications for the period 2014 to 2020 for relevant allied health fields are top or
highly placed in the UK for key quality markers, including number of outputs in the top 10% of
Citation Percentiles (SciVal) and total numbers of citations (figure 1.4). These illustrate the scale,
connectivity and influence of research in UOA3 fields at King’s.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 1.4. Research benchmarking: Number of Outputs in top 10% of Citation Percentiles (field-
weighted) versus total number of citations for outputs published 2014-2020. Source SciVal: Data
includes articles, reviews, conference papers. For each field, the 10 universities with the highest
number of outputs in the UK in the period were selected for comparison. Outputs were identified
using search of keywords (e.g. pharm*) for the field.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The QS World University Rankings 2018-21 places King’s Nursing and Dentistry consistently
first in the UK, 1st-3rd in Europe; with Pharmacy & Pharmacology and Life Sciences & Medicine in
the top 5-6 in the UK.

Reflecting our outstanding clinical research leadership, a UOA3 PI has been appointed Chief
Scientific Adviser, Department of Health & Social Care and NIHR (Chappell, from August 2021).
Another PI is seconded as NHS England and Improvement’s Head of Midwifery Research
(Sandall, from 2021). These appointments will bolster our future clinical-academic strategies and
impact.

Teams from King’s UOA3 now lead five Institutes or clinical academic groups within King’s
Health Partners (KHP): i) Dentistry; ii) Cicely Saunders Institute (Palliative Care, KHP adopted
2017); iii) Institute of Diabetes, Endocrinology & Obesity (launched 2019); iv) Pharmaceutical
Sciences and v) Institute of Women and Children’s Health (launched 2019). Nursing, Midwifery,
Allied Health and other teams are integrated into these and other groups.

KHP is one of eight UK Academic Health Science Centres accredited by DHSC/NHS England.
It unites King’s with our three world leading NHS Trusts (REF5a). KHP aims to accelerate the
translation of leading-edge research, new technologies and treatments into advances in patient
care throughout the sector and has c.5M patient contacts/year and >600 clinical trials in delivery.

Our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion is manifest in our research, which
addresses ways to reduce poor access and disadvantage in health and social care. For example,
dental health research includes people who are elderly or have dementia (Gallagher, Manthorpe),
those with socio-economic disadvantages (Bernabé), and from minority ethnic groups (Sabbah).

In Palliative Care, this includes research to uncover and reduce inequities and exclusion for people
by age or disease (Higginson, Harding,R, Evans), socioeconomic group (Higginson, Maddocks),
ethnicity and culture (Koffman, Bajwah), for LGBTQ people (Harding,R, Bristow, ICS-09) and older
people with memory problems who are homeless (Manthorpe).

Nutrition research uncovered the socioeconomic determinants of mental and physical health
(Harding,S) and of food insecurity and hunger (Loopstra). In low-and-middle income countries
research aims to improve access to antenatal care amongst disadvantaged women (Shennan, Von
Dadelszen, Magee).

1.5 Major research groups: achievements in this REF period

From the >11,500 peer-review papers published by UOA3 staff in the REF period, we selected 507
outputs to illustrate research quality. Of these, 52% are in the top 5% field-weighted citation
percentiles. Early Career Researchers were named authors on an average of 2.3 submitted
papers each.

Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences (FoDOCS) (75 staff, 68.6 FTE)

Following REF2014 feedback and strategic review in 2018 the Faculty was renamed and became
the Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences, acknowledging our research breadth. Three
research focussed centres were created, plus the Centre for Dental Education.

Building on our 2014 aims, we strengthened activity in host-microbiome interactions, recruited in
the areas of big data and biomaterials and created extensive new links within King’s, KHP and the
Crick Institute. We have built on international links and established an alliance with three other
major dental schools (dentALLiance).



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The major research achievements in our three centres span an understanding of basic cell and
molecular biology to clinical implementation:

1. Centre for Craniofacial and Regenerative Biology (CCRB), lead Sharpe
Aims: to understand the underlying causes of birth defects associated with the cranial region and
use the principles of stem cell and developmental biology to promote regeneration and repair in the
adult.

Current work and achievements:
The centre brings together a diverse range of interests from understanding the evolution of
structures to recreating them through bioengineering. We are the main hub for Craniofacial
research in the UK.

Major achievements include: the discovery of signalling pathways controlling resident adult dental
stem cells, repurposed potential therapeutics for tooth regeneration (Sharpe); tailoring of
biomaterials to support organoids (Gentleman); use of nanoneedles for drug delivery and precision
diagnosis (Chiappini); identification of sensory cell fate decision (Streit, Mann); and revealing the
underlying mechanisms behind craniofacial ciliopathies (Liu,K).

2. Centre for Host-Microbiome Interactions (CHMI), lead Proctor
Aims: to understand the interplay between the oral microbiome and oral mucosa and the
consequences of this interaction on development of oral and systemic disease, such as
periodontitis, candidiasis, oral cancer and Alzheimer’s disease.

Current work and achievements:
The centre brings together academics from microbiology, immunology, data science and
epidemiology. Major achievements include: identification and characterisation of the first fungal
toxin Candidalysin (Naglik); complete analysis of antibiotic resistance gene carriage in oral & faecal
samples (Moyes, Proctor); new mechanisms whereby Porphyromonas gingivalis subverts host
immunity (Curtis); tissue and subcellular-based maps of the human proteome (Mardinoglu); and
demonstration of the association between periodontitis and cognitive decline (Ide).

3. Centre for Oral, Clinical and Translational Sciences (COCTS), lead Bartlett
Aims: to translate discovery science into clinical practice, make a difference to patients, and bring
benefits to society.

Current work and achievements:
The centre runs trials through the Oral Clinical Research Unit (lead Moazzez) and works
extensively with industry (Unilever, Colgate-Palmolive, Procter & Gamble, GSK).

Researchers work directly with dental patients and clinicians to explore new treatment options and
raise awareness. The centre hosts two international research implementation charities in the areas
of dental caries [ICS-03] and erosive tooth wear [ICS-06].

Major achievements include: understanding the control of crystal nucleation (Elsharkawry);
development of interventions to encourage timely healthcare (Scott); management of dental
anxiety (Newton) and residual infection analysis (Mannocci).

Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care (FoNMPC) (55 staff,
50.1 FTE)

Aims: to develop, understand, implement and evaluate interventions, therapies and care across
our fields to build knowledge, lead policy and practice and improve outcomes for patients and
those important to them.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Current Work & Achievements:
A new Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care (FoNMPC) formed in 2017, building on
REF2014 plans. Its research strategy (2018) created research divisions to focus critical mass in
areas of strength and increased support for, and representation from, early career researchers and
PhD students.

We created (2020) the Nightingale-Saunders Complex Clinical Trials and Epidemiology Unit,
as part of the King’s UKCRC-Accredited Clinical Trials Unit, Prevost appointed to lead. Other
strategic recruitments include: Rose (Critical Care), Simpson (Mental Health), Normand
(Economics, Palliative Care).

1. Cicely Saunders Institute for Palliative Care and Rehabilitation, lead Higginson, researches
ways to improve care and its cost-effectiveness for the growing numbers of people with
progressive diseases and in multimorbidity.

Our trials and meta-analyses of breathlessness interventions (Higginson, Maddocks) improved
care and quality of life for the 75 million people world-wide who suffer breathlessness in advanced
illnesses [ICS-02].

We trialled the cost-effectiveness of integrated palliative care in neurological conditions (Gao,
Evans, Yi, Higginson); evaluated care for people with dementia (Sleeman), for centenarians
(Evans), and home care (Koffman); generated the first multinational data on the economics of
palliative care (Normand), including for informal carers (Yi, ECR); and evaluated efficiency and
new treatments in rehabilitation (Turner-Stokes, Maddocks) and informed care commissioning
[ICS-11].

Our global programme was first to evaluate palliative care nurses in Africa (Harding,R). Our
person-centred outcome measures extended into patients in care homes with dementia (Ellis-
Smith, ECR) and other diseases widening access to effective palliative care [ICS-09].

2. Care in Long Term Conditions, lead Norton, unites teams in mental health, diabetes, bowel
conditions and care for older people.

Our trials on intractable faecal incontinence overturned the evidence from others’ non-
randomised series (Norton). We discovered that for older people with diabetes, the level of
variability of glycaemic control is an important factor in predicting mortality (Forbes,A).

Our multicentre study of ‘intentional rounding’ to improve care quality and safety in hospitals
highlighted gaps in its mechanisms and implementation (Harris). In mental health, our cluster trial
of the ‘Safewards model’ to reduce conflict or containment incidents, found that simple
interventions to improve staff/patient relationships are effective (Simpson).

Studying workforce across European demonstrated how nurse staffing cuts can adversely affect
patient outcomes, including mortality (Rafferty). This underpinned legislative changes in Scotland,
Wales, Australia and the European Union, improved patient outcomes and saved healthcare costs.

3. Applied Technologies for Care, lead Rose: has pioneered new devices, e.g. therapeutic
gloves, to improve wound healing and functioning for patients (Grocott, ICS-07) and trialled early
extubation to non-invasive ventilation against protocolized invasive weaning (Rose).

4. Methodologies teams, lead Robert, refined Experience-based Co-design. Additional to
impacts in multiple countries [ICS-04], recent research has refined and evaluated co-design among
new groups, including mothers and carers of HIV positive children in South Africa, in Stroke and
Breast Cancer.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (IPS) (35 staff, 30.4 FTE)

Aims: to use science to transform healthcare, from molecules to medicines. We focus on three
main areas; Drug Discovery, Medicines Development and Medicines Use.

Current Work & Achievements:
Articulated in REF2014, these areas were formalised into groups in 2017 and are connected by
cross-cutting themes in respiratory medicine, antimicrobial research, and cancer, the last of these
strengthened, since 2017, by IPS and the Comprehensive Cancer Centre together forming the
School of Cancer & Pharmaceutical Sciences.

We established a strategic partnership with Public Health England (PHE) to tackle key challenges
associated with antimicrobial resistance, have multiple clinical, industry and other external
partnerships (section 4) and have made new appointments: Amison, Cillibrizzi and Castagnolo
(Drug Discovery); Copeland, Vllasaliu, Raimi-Abraham and Alhnan (Medicines Use).

Strong links with the pharmaceutical industry internationally and local teaching hospitals, through
King’s Health Partners, enabled us to create the Centre for Pharmaceutical Medicine Research
and the Centre for Adherence Research & Education.

Recent impact from our research includes that of Hider and co-workers who showed that
Deferiprone – which treats over 50,000 β-thalassemia major patients per annum – also reduces
free radical based neurotoxicity, leading to Phase 2 trials for the treatment of neurodegenerative
diseases. They adapted the same class of molecules to bind 68Ga, creating a radiotracer for
prostate cancer PET imaging. Based on a $500m US market estimate, with Phase 3 trials
underway, GE Healthcare and Theragnostics have entered commercial partnership for worldwide
rollout.

Page’s team demonstrated that a mucus thinning drug, Erdosteine, should be used to reduce
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) symptom flare-up and, consequently, lung
deterioration. Erdosteine was added to the Global Initiative for COPD (GOLD) pocket guide and
Recipharm AB reported a 27% rise in its global sales. They also developed the first-in-class drug,
Ensifentrine, benefitting COPD, asthma and cystic fibrosis patients. Verona Pharma raised approx.
$280m to take Ensifentrine through Phase 2, and now Phase 3, trials.

Patel and colleagues have improved the safety of anticoagulant prescribing for blood clots. The
Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists dosing guidelines (used by >16,000 members)
now recommend pregnant women have only to endure painful injections of low molecular weight
heparin once instead of twice a day. Direct oral anti-coagulants (DOACs), such as rivaroxaban, are
now acknowledged by King’s College Hospital as safe to use in obese patients but pose an
adverse effect risk to menstruating women.

Taylor’s Maudsley Prescribing Guidelines (13th edition 2018; 14th edition 2021) are essential, global
texts for prescribing in mental illness, translated into 12 languages.

School of Life Course Sciences (SoLCS) (83 staff, 75.3 FTE)

1. Women and Children’s Health, lead Poston
Aims: to understand, and improve management of, disorders of reproductive health and childhood
to ensure the best start in life and health across the life course.

Current Work and Achievements:
Fertility research demonstrated that functional remodelling in human embryos in vitro can occur
independently of maternal tissue cues (Ilic) and, relevant to oocyte function, Jonas discovered a
functional role for dimerization of luteinizing hormone receptor, a G-protein coupled receptor.
                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Researchers made a major contribution to prediction, detection and treatment of pregnancy
complications [ICS-10] and established a unique sub-Saharan Africa mother-child cohort
(PRECISE, UKRI £7.9M, Wellcome Trust £4M, von Dadelszen). UPBEAT (Poston) provided new
insights into obesity in pregnancy (25 publications).

Work with the Evelina Children’s Hospital changed policy on childhood food allergies (Lack, ICS-
08). Novel electronic health data linkages (Poston, Wolfe) are now enabling ‘real world’ life course
research.

2. Diabetes Research, lead Persaud
Aims: to understand the causes, mechanisms and complications of diabetes and to find new ways
to manage the disease and improve life-long health.

Current work and achievements:
Key scientific discoveries included demonstration that annexin A1 improves islet transplantation
outcome (Jones), placental kisspeptin is linked to gestational diabetes (Bowe), ADCY5 couples
glucose to insulin secretion in humans (Pullen) and human islets have unique GPCR ligand
expressome signatures (Persaud).

Clinical researchers made advances in continuous glucose monitoring in type 1 diabetes in
pregnancy (Amiel) and showed that proinsulin peptide immunotherapy in new-onset type 1
diabetes reduces the need for insulin by 50% (Liu,Y.F). Stadler found that metformin reduced
metabolic complications and inflammation in patients on systemic glucocorticoids and Mingrone
and Rubino demonstrated a prolonged metabolic benefit of bariatric surgery.

3. Nutritional Sciences, lead Whelan
Aims: to explore the relationship between diet, health and disease to find new ways to improve
health and to prevent and treat nutrition-related disease throughout the life course.

Current work and Achievements:
The CRESSIDA dietary intervention reduced cardiovascular risk in low risk adults, (Hall, Berry,
Goff). (Poly)phenolic compounds, food bioactives found e.g. in blueberries improved vascular
function in healthy subjects (Rodriguez-Mateos).

The low FODMAP diet (Fermentable Oligo-saccharides, Di-saccharides, Mono-saccharides and
Polyols), was included in NICE guidelines for treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (Whelan). With
Twins Research and Genetic Epidemiology, researchers investigated individualised lipaemic
responses to food, related to the microbiome (Berry, Spector).

4. Twins Research and Genetic Epidemiology, lead Spector
Aims: to identify the genes and environmental factors that influence common complex diseases of
ageing and associated traits.

Current work and achievements:
The TwinsUK cohort has pioneered ‘omics in population settings leading to advances in
understanding the mechanisms by which genetic risk results in disease, using genomics, gene
expression (Small), epigenetics (Bell), the microbiome (Steves, Spector) immunomics (Spector)
and metabolomics (Menni), as well as a major contribution to the national COVID-19 response,
with the Symptom Tracker App (section 1.3)[ICS-05].

The section on ophthalmology showed the importance of environmental factors such as education
and outdoor activity in myopia and identified ~ 450 genetic loci associated with the disorder
Glaucoma (Hammond, Hysi), altering mechanistics and opening new treatment avenues.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.6 Strategy for impact, our achievements, future strategy and approaches

The King’s Strategic Vision 2029 ‘to make the world a better place’ (REF5a) is core to our impact
strategies.

Our underpinning Evidence into Practice Ecosystem (figure 1.2), provides a successful
framework to facilitate efficient transfer of knowledge from high quality original research and
systematic reviews.

We have been active in engagement and exchange; our research underpins many national and
international guidelines. We produce, disseminate and locally adapt tools and guidance; we
implement them to transform clinical practice and policy. Our approaches help overcome the
hurdles in moving from guidelines to influencing patient care and health.

An example is the King’s led development and evaluation of a prematurity clinic at our partner
Guy’s and St Thomas’ Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, with implementation nationally. We have
developed and pioneered palliative care assessment tools, breathlessness therapies, novel wound
dressings and improvements in oral health that are used locally and worldwide.

Our selected 11 ICS (table 1.1) give examples of extensive reach and significance across our
diverse non-academic groups, collaborators and beneficiaries.

Table 1.1 Impact Case Studies

    01      Antibiotic stewardship
    02      Care and quality of life for people affected by severe breathlessness
    03      Prevention and treatment of tooth decay
    04      Experience-based Co-design to improve patient and staff experiences
    05      COVID-19 Symptom Study App
    06      Erosive Tooth Wear
    07      Medical devices and technologies
    08      Childhood food allergy
    09      Palliative care for underserved groups
    10      Personalised care and outcomes in high-risk pregnancy
    11      Rehabilitation services

Approaches used to achieve impact

The reach and significance of our research is enhanced by our collaborations (section 4) and
relationships with key research users. We combine multiple approaches to achieve impact
according to context (figure 1.5):

These approaches are reinforced by initiatives and underpinning structures such as our NIHR
Academic Health Sciences Centre, King’s Health Partners (KHP, section 1.4) and our NIHR
Applied Research Collaborative (ARC) (REF5a).

Impact in UOA3 is especially supported by close working with:

•    King’s Policy Institute is closely involved with UK Government. UOA3 members have
     benefited, for example, in the development of a strategy to reduce the temperature of the
     immediate environment to increase fat metabolism in children and reduce obesity (Williamson),
     and collaborations in palliative care, with a new strategic award from Marie Curie Care (2021-

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    23) to provide research into the State of the Nation on Palliative Care, (CI Sleeman, with the
    King’s Policy Institute).

•   King’s Centre for Improvement Science. e.g. Sandall (Women’s Health) has worked with
    Centre lead Sevdalis to improve patient and family involvement in escalation of care in acute
    settings and she contributes to its masterclasses.

•   Our NIHR Mental Health Policy Research Unit, managed by academics at UCL and King’s
    (Simpson) and established in 2017, is leading developments to help the Department of Health
    and others involved in making nationwide plans for mental health services to make decisions
    based on good evidence.

•   King’s Global Health Institute, launched in 2018, is the focal point for King’s large academic
    community of Global Health researchers and students. Led by Prince (UOA4), UOA3
    Professors Gallagher (FoDOCS) and Norton (FoNMPC), serve on the strategy group; many
    UOA3 global leaders such as Bernabé, Challacombe, Harding,R, Harding,S, Shennan, Magee,
    Moore, Pitts and von Dadelszen are actively involved.




    Figure 1.5. Combined approaches to increase the reach and significance of our research’s
    impact across King's UOA3

1. Active Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE): is instilled across our
research projects and programmes. We involve patients and public as co-applicants, co-designers
of research, co-creators of interventions and disseminators. The Cicely Saunders Institute has a
unique online forum and active ‘dragon’s den’ activities. All studies involve targeted patient/public
and stakeholder engagement.

Our UOA contributes to the community: many give talks in schools to pupils of all ages, offer work
experience and tours of labs, and act as mentors to outreach students. These include exhibitions
at London’s Science Gallery; e.g. Tucker was a curator of the ‘Mouthy’ exhibition in 2016;
Nutritional Sciences hosted ‘3 days of Fat’; Cicely Saunders Institute hosted ‘The Sound of
Anxiety’.

Our researchers hosted stands at major science festivals and venues, including the Royal Society,
Royal Institution, Natural History Museum, Cheltenham Science Festival and New Scientist Live
(London EXCEL centre). They participated in Open House, London, and the Academy of Medical
Sciences’ ‘Departure Lounge’. The Smile Society is active in schools and public outreach.
                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2) Co-design: we spearheaded the reconfiguration of healthcare services employing experience-
based co-design (developed by Robert). The PROMOTE food programme created a patient and
professional co-designed online intervention to improve food-related quality of life in inflammatory
bowel disease, led by UOA3 teams across life course (Whelan, Lomer), pharmacy (Morgan) and
nursing (Roberts, Czuber-Dochan); funded by Crohn’s and Colitis UK.

3) Co-working with industry: we created pharmaceutical spin out companies and iCASE
studentships. Our collaboration with the fashion industry led to wound care patented products [ICS-
07]. Collaboration between King’s researchers and the nutrition company ZOE, led to a machine
learning algorithm of personalised dietary advice following evaluation of individual microbiome.

Collaboration with a small UK start-up Calcivis led to a new device for assessing the real-time
activity of tooth decay lesions in a primary care setting, with CE-Mark and provisional FDA
Approvals now in place.

We are collaborating with a US Pharmaceutical Company, Emergent BioSolutions, to develop new
generation broad spectrum antibiotics. We have developed pregnancy accredited blood pressure
monitors with Micro Life, now used globally, a pre-eclampsia prediction tool (with Quidel [previously
ALERE] and Perkin Elmer), and a fetal fibronectin test for risk assessment in premature birth (with
Hologic), the latter two adopted by NHS, UK.

4) Fostering joint clinical/academic/industry talent: our teams are embedded in clinical
settings (section 3) to further collaboration. We won support for new combined clinical/ academic
posts from HEFCE, NIHR, industry partners and charities for capacity building. These initiatives,
the clinical academic groups and KHP have fostered joint working and increased impact in
practice. Our Centre for Adherence Research and Education, in pharmaceutical sciences, was
founded as a result of collaboration and investment with KHP.

5) Integration and engagement: we partner with clinicians, policy makers, industry, voluntary
sector and other non-academic beneficiaries, who are integral to implementation of our research
evidence, locally via KHP and nationally (section 4).

We developed the world’s first healthcare/academic partnership in pharmaceutical sciences. We
instigated and support the End of Life Care Coalition of charities, instrumental in bringing academic
and 3rd sectors together.

Our Institutes at King’s provide integration and proximity in multiple ways, with shared clinical and
academic space, joint posts and objectives and frequent opportunities for knowledge exchange.
Palliative care researchers host Clinical Academic Knowledge Exchange events (figure 1.6) and
Women and Children’s Health created a Knowledge Exchange Hub (figure 1.7).




Figure 1.6. Clinical and academic teams attending Knowledge Exchange events


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
6) User-friendly, free resource provision appropriate for the audience, culture and language,
aids access (reach) and validity (impact). Our research has identified such access accelerates
uptake by clinicians, the public, patients and families from many different contexts [ICS-02,05,09].

7) Engagement with social and traditional media: to increase awareness and reach our
research is frequently featured in major news outlets, including TV, radio and social media. All our
teams communicate via newsletters, Facebook and Twitter accounts. We host a YouTube channel
in palliative care (CSIKCL) with presentations, discussions and short videos. In 2017, working with
the Salzburg Global Seminar, we launched a year-long Twitter campaign on Rethinking Care
Toward the End of Life, #allmylifeQs, which had >10 million impressions.

In Women’s Health, our information about prematurity research was accessed by >1M women in
2019-2020 on the Tommy’s charity web site. The charity’s ‘Always Ask’ campaign, to alert
pregnant women to the signs of pregnancy complications, instigated by King’s, was viewed 6
million times. The Tommy’s pregnancy diabetes information to which we contributed is accessed
by ~78,000 women a year.

8) Leadership: all our senior investigators and many early career researchers are board members
of, and/or chair, international advisory groups, taskforces, national bodies and professional
associations (section 4).

9) Implementation considered at every stage of research: working with the King’s Centres for
Implementation Science and Improvement Science and other infrastructure.




Figure 1.7 Diagram illustrating central role of the Knowledge Hub in the Institute of Women and
Children's Health and mechanisms to link research questions with solutions.

Future improvements to approaches to impact in next 6 years

Building on the above we will further improve our approaches to achieving impact:

•   Embed ‘impact thinking’ in all we do: from project conception, throughout the project and
    beyond. The Impact Leads of our Research groups (Faculties, Institutes and Schools) will
    intensify training, resources and external expertise, guidelines and frameworks. They will
    ensure wide engagement and offer training for early career to established researchers. King’s
    wider structures further aid impact (REF5a).

•   Engage and partner actively and often, with the public, patients, industry partners, clinicians,
    government bodies, policymakers, and others to co-create research and maximise impact.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Increase our attention on implementation and improvement at all study stages, growing our
    infrastructure for commercialisation, capitalising on King’s infrastructure (REF5a) and on our
    leadership roles, e.g. in Women’s health in the new Tommy’s National Centre for Maternity
    Improvement (sections 3 and 4).

•   Capture and communicate our impact. Recognising impact in its different forms, we will record,
    appraise and review to improve the reach and significance of our impact, as in ICS 02 where
    an interim review of impact led to targeted engagement to address gaps.

1.7 Scientific strategy for the next 6 years

We will harness technologies, build on our learning from the COVID-19 pandemic, enthuse and
foster talented staff and students from across our disciplines, to address future challenges in health
and social care, conducting research to improve and innovate in:

•   discovery, to reveal underlying mechanisms and understand interactions, such as between
    molecular and cellular, or between intervention content, causal pathways and outcomes

•   prevention, promoting health throughout the life course and preventing illness, allergies,
    iatrogenic diseases for example in maternal health, childhood and for older people

•   prediction, making best use of genetic and phenotype stratifications and routine electronic and
    big data linkage to research disease and symptom origins, and to personalise or stratify
    treatments, therapies and care

•   delivering care closer to patients (supporting patients, mothers, others important to them, such
    as families, where they want to be cared for, harnessing telehealth, remote monitoring,
    technology supported self-management and other digital tools)

•   inclusion, involving patients, and the public, as equal partners

•   tackling inequities, and reaching populations that have hitherto been missed, such as those
    from minority ethnic or other disadvantaged groups

•   cost-effective treatments, therapies and services (innovating, and trialling interventions and
    their implementation, that give value to health and social care)

•   holistic, personalised care (considering mind and body together, tacking multimorbidity,
    putting the person before their diseases, developing and testing self-management
    interventions) for example in chronic disease, and in palliative, maternity and child care

•   interdisciplinary and integrated research, collaborating with national, international and global
    partners (e.g. China, Asia and Africa).

In the Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences we will strengthen our research
through recruitment of high calibre staff (see below). Our research environment will be boosted by
links with the Guy’s Cancer centre, through a new joint CRUK programme grant (Neves/Curtis
with UOA1 Ng: £2.5M), and with the King’s Global Health Institute, spearheaded by the Faculty’s
work in supporting health systems in Africa. New connections will enable us to share our research
through initiatives such as the newly established dentALLiance.

In Craniofacial and Regenerative Biology increasing emphasis will be placed on the expansion of
bioengineering approaches, integrated with the existing developmental/cell biology discovery
research, to drive the translation of cellular therapeutics. In Host-Microbiome Interactions we aim to
extend expertise in fungal pathogens and move to a greater understanding of the host side of


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
host-microbiome interactions, aided by recent appointments in immunology (Neves, Flak) and
structural biology (Garnett).

We seek to enhance use of our fantastic resource of patient data to understand relationships
between the mouth and health of the body through systems biology approaches (Mardinoglu,
Shoaie). We will continue patient-centred research in Oral, Clinical and Translational Sciences and
develop advanced healthcare technologies with investments in advanced imaging and research
into AI, robotics, sensors and nanotechnology.

In the Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care, the Nightingale-
Saunders Complex Trials Unit will boost evaluative research and accelerate co-designed
interventions moving from feasibility stage to effectiveness, cluster and hybrid trials, with a focus
on co-production, tele-health, outcome assessment, symptoms and self-management. New health
economic posts and collaborations will test cost-effectiveness. We will harness routine and big
data, data linkages and AI expertise, partnering with the Innovate UK AI Centre (section 3), to
understand inequalities and evaluate care in real time. Global programmes will extend south-north
learning.

Partnering with Cicely Saunders International and the Kirby Laing Foundation, we raised £2.75M
to endow the flagship Laing-Galazka Professorship in Palliative Care (appointing Sleeman,
2021), focussed on palliative care for older people and in multimorbidity.

We will:
• provide definitive evidence on treatments for breathlessness and for frailty in advanced
  disease, with digital self-management, combined rehabilitation and palliative interventions
• trial new strategies and tailored treatments including: online self-management for
  inflammatory bowel disease symptoms, new medical devices, alleviating the effects of noise in
  hospitals, and supporting family carers
• considerably increase our PhD students, through our new Nightingale-Saunders Doctoral
  Studies programme to launch in 2021
• grow our capacity-building post-doctoral posts, and recruit eight new lectureships or
  senior lectureships, one jointly with Women and Children’s Health to foster midwifery
  research.

The Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences is expanding, while integrating the Department of
Analytical, Environmental & Forensic Science, with which there are natural fits in analytical and
toxicology research. Four appointments will enhance the three cross-cutting research themes
(antimicrobials, respiratory medicines and cancer) and existing strengths in neurological disorders
and forensics. The two IPS Centres, for Pharmaceutical Medicine Research and for Adherence
Research & Education, are recruiting ex-industry and clinicians to accelerate regulatory approval
and clinical adoption of medicines transitioning through the development process and enable
clinicians to optimise consultations, identifying and tackling medication non-adherence.

For:
• Antimicrobials: we will discover, develop and deliver new antimicrobials against multidrug
   resistant Gram-negative bacteria and the emerging fungal pathogen Candida auris, leveraging
   our strategic partnership with Public Health England/UK Health Security Agency (Section 4).

•   Respiratory medicines: we will better understand defence versus tissue damage in the
    immune response; address safety concerns around anti-inflammatory drugs to broaden their
    therapeutic use; develop regenerative pharmacology platforms to restore tissues damaged
    in long-COVID or idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and optimise the formulation of medicines
    delivered by inhalation.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•    Cancer: linking with the Comprehensive Cancer Centre, we will focus on bioactive material
     discovery for immuno-engineering and early disease detection (supported by a new major
     award from CRUK) to develop new therapeutic modalities for cancer and improve prognoses.

In School of Life Course Sciences (SoLCS) research will interrogate the life course of health and
disease as a conduit to improved population health.

Women and Children’s research will utilise existing Electronic Health Record (EHR) data linkages
(eLIXIR,CYPHP) as a dynamic Learning Health System to enable research into improved
outcomes, including through partnership with the Innovate UK AI Centre (section 3). Discovery
science into causes of maternal and child disorders will be intensified, and evidence-based
interventions tested e.g. Hypertensive disease in pregnancy – Baby Panda, NIHR; CRADLE, MRC;
POPPY, Wellcome Trust: Child health continuity of care- CYPHP, GSTT charity.

Diabetes Research will continue research into islet cell function (Diabetes UK, KCL/Dresden
Trans Campus), with increasing interaction with the Institute of Diabetes, Endocrinology & Obesity,
underpinned by appointment of the RD Lawrence Chair in Diabetes, sustained by agreed
commercial support for a new clinical trials infrastructure.

Nutritional Sciences will strengthen their cell-to-society model theme with programmatic
research on food additives and personalised responses to foods and, using existing cohorts, inform
effective interventions to prevent and manage non-communicable diseases.

Twins Research will solidify their leading UK cohort (Wellcome Trust Longitudinal Population
Studies award), EHR linkage being key to this ambition, together with geospatial data and effects
of the COVID pandemic (ZOE app). Inter-individual responses to environmental changes will be
addressed using ‘omic phenotyping, and, with Nutritional Sciences, they will expand on nutritional
challenges.


    2. People

2.1 Overview

Recruiting, mentoring, supporting and developing all staff and students so that they can flourish is
central to our UOA3 strategy. We seek to recruit and retain the best, at all stages of their career
trajectory. This is buttressed by our dedication to promoting a thriving, mutually beneficial research
environment that grows and retains talent and champions equality and diversity.

We employ 248 (224.4 fte) category A staff; of these 43 (41.1 fte, 18%) are Early Career
Researchers, 67 (60.1 fte, 27%) are clinical academics. We also employ 82 predoctoral research
assistants and 199 post-doctoral researchers. To support our clinical academic integration, we
have >100 Category C staff employed in partner organisations, including KHP Trusts, local
hospices and community services.

We are addressing the ‘leaky pipeline’ for staff who may be disadvantaged (section 2.5). Our
18/19 HESA data shows progress made since 2014: an increase in the proportion of women at
professorial level, a small increase in men in professional services, and an increase in the
proportion of people from black or minority ethnic groups at Reader/Senior Lecturer/Lecturer levels
(figures 2.1, 2.2).

Women hold key leadership positions in research, for example the Vice Deans for Research and
Impact, Heads of School, Heads of Department and Institute leads.



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2.1 Academic and professional services staff gender profile changes over the REF2021
assessment period. Source: HESA.




Figure 2.2 Academic and professional services staff ethnicity profile changes over the REF2021
assessment period. Source: HESA


2.2 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

Recruitment

We recognise the diverse skills and expertise needed in different fields, while maintaining a focus
on excellence. We follow King’s common recruitment policies across UOA3 teams (REF5a).

All replacement and new academic posts are subject to business plans and standardised job
descriptions, and appointment panels are configured to ensure diversity in gender, ethnicity and
age. Unconscious-bias training is mandatory for all interview panel members, with 360
degree feedback. The most recent staff survey data found that most staff (85-93% across Faculties
in UOA3) report that King’s acts fairly with regard to background (e.g. culture, ethnic group,
gender, socio-economic) in staff recruitment.

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Induction, mentoring and buddy system

New academic staff are assigned an academic mentor, in addition to their academic line manager,
to advise them on their development and priorities. We are rolling out best practice across the
UOA, e.g. the Cicely Saunders Institute’s buddying system, where new staff have a ‘buddy’ who
helps them find resources.

Appraisal and Probation

Staff undergo a formal annual Performance Development Review (PDR) with their line manager
where achievements in the previous year are reviewed and goals, career advancement
opportunities and appropriate support and training needs are agreed for the coming year.

The criteria for an Academic Performance Framework have been harmonised by King’s-wide
initiatives to enable a high-performing culture (lead Norman). This takes account of transparent
workload data which provide credit for education responsibilities, administrative duties and
research productivity and, where appropriate, clinical activity.

Probation of academics (at 3 years) and researchers and professional service staff (at 6 months)
across UOA3 follows King’s-wide standard protocols to ensure fairness and support for all new
members of staff to attain their potential.

Promotion and Career Progression

Initiatives aimed at promoting career progression include: mentoring; promotions workshops;
generic skills training courses; advisory committees; opportunities to deputise on decision-
making committees and, in accordance with our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion,
funds to support return from career breaks and childcare costs when attending conferences and
training and leadership development programmes.

Staff are helped through the process of promotion by internal Faculty/School Promotions Advisory
Panels. These provide coaching, workshops and 1:1 support with feedback on plans and CVs.
Support from our internal panels has yielded successful promotion rates of; 94% (FoDOCS
implemented from 2015), 91% (FoNMPC from 2017), 100% (IPS from 2018), 90% (SoLCS from
2017).

Research culture and research integrity

King’s established a research culture task and finish group to address three areas highlighted by
the Careers in Research On-line Survey; career progression, reward and recognition and bullying
and harassment (see below). These initiatives are led by UOA3 researchers (Newton: Dean of
Research Governance, Ethics and Integrity, Tucker: Chair Research Culture task and finish group),
with advisors embedded across UOA3 Faculties (REF5a).

2.3 Development, support and training for our staff to ensure their personal and
professional growth

Early Career Researchers

Key to our goal is fostering and growing the academic pipeline.

Our strategy is focussed on delivering a positive research culture that offers the best opportunities
and training, at all stages, actively seeking to diversify and address areas of under-representation.
We actively encourage participation in King’s fellowships and, in alignment with new King’s
strategy, we develop more efficient mentorship process for probationary lecturers and ECRs.
                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

King’s has recently launched the Emerging Research Leaders Programme to provide specific
support to those establishing their independent research programmes, building on the success of
our Leading Researchers programme (see below).

Research-only staff (research assistants, and post-doctoral researchers)

We support research staff to achieve their ambitions, be they to move from research assistant to
undertake PhDs, to win post-doctoral positions, Fellowships, academic posts or to develop
specialist skills. King’s is committed to leading the implementation of the Concordat to Support
the Career Development of Researchers, and recently received the European Commission’s HR
Excellence in Research award for its commitment to this Concordat.

All staff and PhD students are encouraged to develop an individualised generic skills training
programme and to make use of the extensive array of King’s development programmes and
external opportunities (REF5a).

We recognise the challenges faced by research-only staff, particularly in transition from post-
doctoral positions to lectureships or other positions. We seek to mitigate these, and ensure that we
retain staff on an upward trajectory through a combination of:

•   salary funding to underwrite or bridge high-achieving staff to support fellowship applications,
    e.g. to UKRI, NIHR and King’s
•   flexibility of movement between grants
•   joint contacts across Departments and Faculties where appropriate, e.g. between SoLCS and
    the School of Immunology and Microbial Sciences (Santos, Turcanu); between SoLCS,
    FoNMPC and the IoPPN (Howard, Higginson, Harding,R, Roberts, Norton)
•   adherence to King’s regulations defining the minimum length of fixed term contracts (REF5a).

King’s Centre for Research Staff Development provides career enhancement opportunities for
all groups of research staff (REF5a).

Successful examples in UOA3 include:
• King’s Prize Fellowships (2 year salary and running costs) to enable outstanding internal/
   external postdoctoral researchers transition to independence. Since 2014, seven have been
   awarded across UOA3; three progressed to lectureships (Flak, Mann, Bergholt), one to an
   MRC Clinician Scientist (Yu-Wai-Man).

•   One-year Clinical Training Fellowships from GSTT/KCL Biomedical Research Centre (BRC)
    to prepare for external Fellowships. Recipients have included NIHR Doctoral Training
    Fellowships (Hezelgrave, Carter) and an MRC Clinical Research Training Fellowship (Conte-
    Ramsden).

•   Partnering in European Intersectorial & Multi-disciplinary Palliative Care Research
    Training (Euro-Impact), a four-year coordinating action project funded by the European Union,
    which trained 12 junior and 4 senior researchers in palliative care.

•   The BuildCare Cicely Saunders International fellowship programme, with pre-doctoral and
    post-doctoral fellowships and transition funding; seven staff transitioned to lecturer posts
    (Sleeman, Evans, Ellis-Smith, Henson, at King’s, three to academic posts in Germany,
    Australia, University of Bristol) and one to industry.

•   Other externally funded individual training development awards: Marie-Curie fellow (Le Blanc),
    UKRI Rutherford Fund fellow (Neves), EPSRC fellow (Shoaie), Action on Hearing Loss Pauline
    Ashley fellow (Mann).


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Mentoring and financial support schemes, including the NIHR Leadership and Senior
    Leadership programmes (5 female senior staff members, all promoted, 1 of ethnic minority
    origin promoted to Professor), the Academy of Medical Sciences Future Leaders in Innovation,
    Enterprise and Research (FLIER) and Springboard programmes (Iocal Springboard
    ‘Champion’, Poston), the Stellar Higher Education programme and the Advance HE’s AURORA
    Programme (Leadership programme for women in academia).

All our Faculties have networks of research staff support to connect research staff and provide
peer-mentoring, provide information about training and progression opportunities
and to enable representation on Faculty/School/Institute decision-making committees.

Clinical academic and clinical research careers

Clinical academics, researchers and PhD students are sustained by our clinical academic
structure, co-location with clinical services (section 3), and our KHP Institutes.

We have successfully taken staff from NIHR Academic Clinical Fellow or Lecturer through career
development to win awards and senior academic posts. Chappell, an obstetrician, undertook her
PhD at King’s, became a Clinical Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, then secured a prestigious 5-year
NIHR Professorship, and was appointed in 2021 to Chief Scientific Adviser, DHSC. Sleeman, an
NIHR Academic Clinical Lecturer in Palliative Medicine, secured an NIHR Clinician Scientist,
enrolled in the FLIER programme and recently won (in open competition) a prestigious King’s
Professorship, starting 2021.

Our research staff comprise a large number of Allied Health Professionals and we actively support
their academic career progression. We have fostered many individuals from different disciplines
(nurses, midwives, social workers, occupational therapists and social scientists) from MSc, PhD
student and post-doc to senior academic posts: Harding,R (social work), Murtagh (medicine),
Koffman (health care research), gained PhDs in the Cicely Saunders Institute, won academic
posts, progressing to Professors or Readers. Evans (palliative care community nursing), moved
from post-doctoral researcher, attained an NIHR clinical lectureship, then senior lectureship, and
recently submitted for an NIHR Professorship. Maddocks (physiotherapy) joined as an NIHR
postdoctoral researcher, secured an establishment lecturer post, a further NIHR postdoctoral
training fellowship and was promoted to Reader in 2020.

We have been awarded the most NIHR Fellowships for midwives of any institution in the country.
Briley, senior midwife, following her PhD and postdoctoral research was appointed in 2020 to the
Chair of Women’s Health and Midwifery Research at Flinders University, Adelaide. Carter,
following an NIHR PhD Fellowship, was awarded an NIHR Development and Skills Enhancement
Award and is now a postdoctoral midwife researcher for the Tommy’s Maternity Improvement
Centre. Walker, following her PhD, was awarded an NIHR advanced fellowship.

Senior academic staff

UOA3 PIs benefit from pump-priming schemes run by King’s, including the KHP R&D Challenge
Fund (c.£1m/year), King’s Together (£1m/year), the Genesis Fund (c.£500k/year), and BRC/CRUK
Centre pump-priming schemes (REF5a).

At the highest level, the King’s Leading Researchers Programme supports rising stars, at or
close to professorial level, to establish themselves as research leaders. In UOA3 this has been
undertaken by Rose, Gao, Small, Williamson, Williams, Sturt, Koffman, Al-Jamal, Chiappini,
Andoniadou, Naglik, Tavassoli.




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Professional services and technical staff development and sustainability

Highly skilled administrative and technical staff benefit from skills workshops, e.g. on
writing/communication, financial management, computer and web design skills, impact capture and
are encouraged take part in local and external activities, e.g. engagement in the King’s-wide
competition for green lab sustainability (Gold star award to Women and Children’s Health in this
REF period, a technical staff member from that group now leads the London Bioresource Group).
Research technical staff are included in the Concordat.

The success is evidenced by promotions and developments in professional services careers within
our teams (e.g. Tonkin to CSI Business manager, Nessa from Lab Technician to Clinical
Operations Manager, Hollows to senior international partnership manager, Richards to School
Technical Manager, Carvalho to School Manager) and in a transition to a research career (e.g.
Davies to PhD in palliative care, Verdi to PhD in neurology, Tunnard and Mi to research
assistants).

2.4 Selection, support, training and supervision of postgraduate research (PGR)
students

Currently, we have 380 PGR students, from 50 countries and six continents, supervised by UOA3
researchers. As part of the application and selection process, all students have to submit a
research proposal, often developed in collaboration with potential supervisors.

Support and training

The King’s Centre for Doctoral Studies co-ordinates and provides a robust training infrastructure
for all students at King’s (REF5a).

All students benefit from The Generic Skills courses including: information retrieval; research
governance; ethics, data protection; IP, health and safety; planning and managing research;
statistics; qualitative and quantitative skills; presentation skills; preparing for oral examinations and
thesis writing. Students are encouraged to undergo training outside their immediate research area
to enhance transferable skills, e.g. communications training and public engagement. UOA3
students have won the King’s 3-minute thesis competition (Blanford, FoDOCS, Salamipour, Prpa,
SoLCS), and won through to the national finals (May, FoDOCS, Salamipour,Prpa SoLCS).

Career sessions are organised, including workshops with external speakers/funding bodies, to
highlight diverse career paths in academia, industry, clinics, medical writing, patent law etc. Each
Faculty/School/Institute has a yearly PGR research day when students present and are awarded
oral and poster presentation prizes. We encourage PhD students to gain experience by joining
learned Societies e.g. Women’s Health PhD students ran a Biochemical Society symposium.

Overseas students are provided with language courses where needed. Laptops and/or fixed
computers are provided to all PhD UOA3 students. Where not otherwise provided, our Faculties
provide travel grants for PhD students to present at conferences.

Supervision and monitoring progress

Across UOA3, student progress is overseen by a first and second supervisor (or joint first for
some programmes) and an independent post-graduate coordinator to help resolve any issues
arising during the PhD. Supervisor training is mandatory, with refresher courses every 5 years.
Excellent supervision is celebrated through the Supervisory Excellence Scheme where students
can nominate their supervisors for prizes (winners from UOA3 teams include; Liu, Gallagher,
Maddocks, Miletich, Newton, Proctor and Tucker).



                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All Faculties have bespoke Thesis Progression Committees offering support, expertise, advice
and guidance for the student and their supervisors. These committees are chaired by a nominated
senior academic and include two experts external to the supervisory team. Students’ progress is
reviewed after their first 3 months and then every 6 months until completion. Students submit a
report to upgrade from MPhil to PhD.

The rates of PhD submission within four years full time or seven years (part-time) during the REF
period are: 95% (FoDOCS), 100% (FoNMPC) and 93% FoLSM (data not available for SoLCS and
IPS separately due to organisational changes).

2.5 Supporting and Promoting Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)

We secured Athena SWAN Silver Awards covering all UOA3 constituent departments:
FoDOCS 2015, renewed 2018; FoNMPC 2014 for Nursing and Midwifery, renewed 2019; Cicely
Saunders Institute 2016; FoLSM 2018 (including Women’s Health Silver - awarded first in 2014;
IPS; Diabetes & Nutritional Sciences).

We have led the development of national Athena SWAN networks: for Nursing & Midwifery
(launched 2019) and for Palliative Care (launched 2020). These networks offer opportunities to
share beacon practices, collectively address sector issues and provide support and mentorship to
other institutions to instil Athena SWAN principles.

We support external initiatives for women who have taken career breaks returning back into
science, for example the Chadburn Lectureship awarded to Ovadia (Women and Children’s
Health) and Williams,K (Ophthalmology).

Improvement in equality and diversity; mentoring, and providing support and career development,
is central to all our activities, as outlined in our REF2014 and in response to national initiatives and
concerns, including Black Lives Matter. King’s aim is to become an exemplar of Equality,
Diversity & Inclusion in the Higher Education (HE) sector and, more widely (REF5a). This is
embedded in the five components of Kings Strategic Vision 2029, figure 2.3.




Figure 2.3 Central tenants of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) in the Strategic Vision at
King's in UOA3


                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Since REF2014 King’s central organisation of ED&I has been aligned closely with Faculties, with
the King’s ED&I team delivering priorities to local committees, to embed ED&I across the
governance, operations, decision making and culture of Faculties within UOA3 (REF5a).

King’s has embedded the StellarHE programme since 2019 to enhance and extend the
leadership skills of Academic and Professional staff of diverse cultural origins. So far 3 UOA3 staff
members have enrolled.

King’s demonstrated its commitment to inclusion of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transsexual
campus community by becoming a Stonewall’s Diversity Champions member in 2016, sought
their consultation on the Trans Matters Guidance documents and hosted their annual Starting Out
Guide launch in 2017. This provides workplace resources, a toolkit and a network, used actively by
teams across our UOA3 submission.

UOA3 Faculties have focused on means to identify gender, ethnic and other inequalities and on
implementing proven interventions to reduce inequalities, implementing King’s wide initiatives such
as ED&I representation on decision-making committees, aligning Faculty and departmental
meeting times within core hours (10.00-16.00), regular staff consultations (e.g. surveys and focus
groups) and King’s Diversity Matters training as standard in staff induction. UOA3 teams have
taken the lead on workshops such as: Inclusive Education, Trans Matters, Culture and
Equality, Active bystander training, Digital Accessibility, and Inclusive Practice, and the
DentAll network for students and staff.

The King’s Parental Leave scheme and Parents’ and Carers’ Fund provide assistance for return
to research following maternity or carer’s leave. Staff surveys show that the percentage of
respondents in King’s agreeing that they received the support they needed to resume their roles
after maternity leave rose from 43% in 2014 to 100% in 2017.

Awareness of our commitment to ED&I is high. The most recent King’s Staff Survey showed
that 88% (FoDOCS), 98% (FoNMPC), 94%(SoLCS) and 97% (IPS) staff were aware of King’s
commitment to ED&I. Since 2014, the proportion of staff who are aware of, and attend, ED&I
training has increased annually. In the most recent survey, most staff (77% FoDOCS; 91%
FoNMPC; 82% SoLCS and 91% IPS) felt they had received sufficient training to help them deliver
an inclusive environment. and that most staff felt supported and valued by their colleagues (93%
FoDOCS; 91% FoNMPC; 89% SoLCS and 90% IPS).

Central to our approach to mainstreaming an inclusive environment has been implementing ED&I
at key transition points for all employees, such as reviewing induction content and processes and
ensuring that career progression and promotion are more constructively discussed in Performance
Development Reviews, as well as improving access to flexible working.

The FoLSM Staff Study in 2019 demonstrates the success of this approach: an increased
proportion of staff taking up informal flexible working (73%); 83% of new starters agreeing their
induction was welcoming; 77% agreeing that development was discussed effectively in
appraisals.

Within FoNMPC, yearly ED&I survey results, with provisional action plans, are presented to staff at
workshops to facilitate co-production of action plans and promote a culture of stakeholder buy-in.
In the Faculty’s 2019 ED&I survey, 90% of respondents said they had not witnessed or been the
victim of discrimination on the grounds of race or sexual orientation in the Faculty. 98% said they
had neither witnessed nor been a victim of discrimination. Most respondents agreed that they were
treated equally by colleagues irrespective of their gender (77% agreed), ethnicity (80%) or
sexuality (85%).



                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.6 Actions to prevent bullying and harassment

A working group of representatives from across our Health Faculties reinforces the commitment to
zero tolerance for bullying and harassment and develops strategies to tackle the underlying
causes across the Health Faculties. The group aims to:
   • better enable consistency of action, approach and outcomes across the Health Faculties.
   • share best practice and facilitate joint working across the Health Faculties, King’s, the
       Higher Education and health sectors.
   • understand the nuanced challenges faced in Health Faculties and the barriers and
       obstacles to tackling bullying, harassment & victimisation.
   • accelerate interventions across the Health Faculties.

Group members include senior academic and professional services staff, King’s Director of ED&I
and the Director of King’s Organisational Development.

2.7 Support for staff and students during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown

King’s put staff and student welfare at the heart of its COVID-19 response. In March 2020, King’s
stipulated that ED&I be considered in all decisions and implementation responding to COVID-19. It
rapidly developed tailored Equality Analysis materials, including quick reference guides and an
abridged Equality Analysis template.

Whilst our research teams mobilised rapidly to contribute to the COVID-19 knowledge base, we
recognised the significant disruption in other research areas due to government lockdowns, travel
restrictions, workplace social distancing, halting of clinical research, disruption of animal work,
redeployment to clinical duties, and caring responsibilities. We supported our non-independent
postdocs and research assistants through fully paid furlough leave, and research students through
stipend extensions and interruptions.

UOA3 teams made use of the King’s Coronavirus Disease Equality Considerations Report
which brings together research on the differential impacts of the pandemic on key demographic
groups. These materials were available to UOA3 staff on our ED&I Coronavirus webpages.

There is a particular focus on staff wellbeing, including additional concessionary leave days for
staff in April, August and December 2020, the creation of an online meeting framework, and the
opportunity for parents and carers to utilise special paid leave.

Many clinical academics from UOA3 were deployed to the front line of clinical services, and this
was recognised by King’s, which relieved them of teaching or other duties.

At local level, Faculties in UOA3 have developed an inclusive approach to supporting all staff and
students throughout the COVID-19 period. Initiatives include:
• weekly or fortnightly virtual meetings between Group leads and PI staff, plus staff/department
    meetings, research round-ups, seminars, conferences and workshops
• PI led researcher development/methodological/ journal club meetings
• Coffee mornings, quiz events, online advent calendar, virtual yoga, rise and stretch to
    encourage staff to move away from the computer for 15 minutes
• Online graduation events and celebrations
• King’s Mental health support hub which was established as a central resource for all staff
    (REF5a).




                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research income and awards

Our external peer reviewed research income across UOA3 at King’s for the period 2013/14 to
2019/2020 was £150M. Almost half of this was from UK Research & Innovation (UKRI) (£29.3M) or
the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) (£30.9M) (figure 3.1). Annual income increased
over the period from £20.5M in 2013/14 to £22.8M in 2018/19 (£21.6M in 2019/20, some income
delayed due to COVID-19).




Figure 3.1 Research income for UOA3 teams by funding source for the period 13/14 to 19/20;
showing NIHR separately from other UK Government income

The value of new awards involving UOA3 teams increased during this REF period (figure 3.2),
especially after 2017, after implementing our strategies of building critical mass and significant
partnerships. The total awards over this REF period (2013-2020) involving UOA3 staff (as co-
applicants or chief investigators) were £345.4M, illustrating our collaborative networks and vitality.




Figure 3.2. Awards involving King’s UOA3 teams. Total project/programme values are presented in
2 academic year periods; i.e. 2013/14 and 2014/15; 2015/16 and 2016/17; 2017/18 and 2018/19.


                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Major infrastructure awards

Sustainability across the breadth of our research is illustrated by the programme support to King’s
and to our partner Trusts, which involves leadership from across our UOA. Some support is direct
to the NHS and is additional to the income and award figures above.

These include experimental medicine infrastructure, in particular, the combined investment of more
than £130M to our King’s Health Partners NHS Trusts for two NIHR Biomedical Research
Centres (BRC) (2017-2022) at Guy’s and St Thomas’/King’s (£64.4M) and the South London and
Maudsley (£66M). Both Centres have Research Platforms for Big data, advanced therapeutics and
training, supporting UOA3 teams.

Oral Health (FoDOCS) and Women and Children’s Health themes were included for the first
time in this new Guy’s and St Thomas’/King’s BRC; Pharmacology was already a theme.
TwinsUK (Spector) is a core Research Platform in the GSTT/KCL BRC and feeds into multiple
BRC themes including Genomic Medicine, Immunology and Cardiovascular. Palliative Care and
Mental Health Nursing benefit from infrastructure and partnerships with the translational
informatics and mental-physical health programme in the Maudsley BRC.

UOA3 members contributed to King’s infrastructure awards for core laboratory facilities including
the King’s NMR Facility for structural biology, metabolic profiling and drug discovery
providing core NMR spectroscopy facilities (Wellcome Trust and BHF, £2M; Poston, Williamson),
and the London Metallomics Facility with a Wellcome Trust Multiuser equipment grant £390K
(Maret, Hogstrand, Sharp & Hider), a newly created facility to provide state of the art metallomic
analysis, and correlative bio-imaging. Wellcome Trust and UKRI Multiuser equipment grants
involving UOA3 provide access to key equipment: £263K (microCT scanner), £198K (laser capture
microdissection microscope), £550K (multiphoton microscope).

A Wellcome Cohort Award ‘Twins UK’, an epidemiological and genomic resource was awarded to
Spector’s team to support the Twins UK Bioresource (£2.8M). Spector also contributed to the
successful bid from Health Data Research UK for the London Substantive Site for HDR UK (£1.2M,
2018-2023, total award to London £7M).

Our applied health research benefits from our leadership in the South London NIHR Applied
Research Collaborative (ARC) (2019-2024), £9M. This builds from the successful South London
NIHR Collaboration for Applied Health Research and Care, £10.5M, 2014-2019. Led overall by
Thornicroft (UOA4), UOA3 teams lead four of the eight ARC research themes: Palliative and End
of Life Care (Higginson, Gao, Maddocks); Maternity and Perinatal Mental Health (Sandall); two
new themes, Children and Young People (Wolfe) and Social Care (Manthorpe).

We lead an NIHR Health and Social Care Workforce Research Unit, Manthorpe and Rafferty
(£4.9M, 2019-2023) and an NIHR School for Social Care Research (joint with London School of
Economics and Political Science).

Relevant Kings infrastructure awards include the Innovate UK London AI Centre for Value-based
Healthcare (£10M + £16M), Wellcome/EPSRC Medical Engineering Centre (£12M), London 7T
MRI Clinical Research Facility (£4M) and London Institute for Healthcare Engineering (£16M +
£32M from industry) – which benefit UOA3 researchers and themes (e.g. AI Centre linking to data
science in LifeCourse theme, Healthcare Engineering linking to biomaterials research in dentistry).

Strategic and programmatic awards

In this period UOA3 teams were involved in >60 awards of >£1M across our research groups, plus
key strategic investments in our research fields. Of these, 46.7% were led by women and 8.3% by
investigators of ethnic minority origins.


                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Since REF2014 these include major strategic grants (> £3M) from UKRI e.g.: Empowering
Better End of life Dementia Care, EMBED-Care Programme, £3.7M, 2019-2023 (co-CI Evans, with
Harding,R, Sleeman and UCL); stratification studies in hypertension (using ancestry and biological
Informative Markers) £3.4M 2015-2021 (uniting UOA3 teams from pharmacy, life sciences and
nursing); T Cell Therapy for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, £3.3M 2018-23, plus multiple grants up
to £3M.

Significant NIHR programmatic (>£2M) research led by UOA3 teams includes: Living well with
inflammatory bowel disease: the IBD-BOOST programme, £2.3M 2017-2022 (Norton); The
StereoTactic radiotherapy for wet Age-Related macular degeneration (STAR) randomised, clinical
trial £2.2M 2014-2022 (Jackson) and on Pregnancy Antihypertensive Drugs, £2M, 2020-2024
(Chappell).

Investigator awards from Wellcome Trust and other major charities (>£2M) include: Study of
Fungal peptide toxins in pathogenicity and immunity, £2.1M 2018-20204 (Naglik).

Strategic international applied health collaborative research is supported, for example, with
awards from the European Community. Those >£3M include: MICROBiome-based biomarkers to
PREDICT decompensation of liver cirrhosis and treatment response, £12.3M, 2019-2025 (involving
Moyes); Solving the unsolved Rare Diseases, £12.3M, 2018-2023 (involving Rafferty); Training
European Experts in Multiscale Studies of Neural Crest Development and Disorders, £3.5M 2019-
2023 (involving Liu,K); Dyadic Psychoeducational Interventions in Advanced Cancer £3.5M 2019-
2023 (involving Harding,R, Bristowe); International randomized controlled trial Improving Mental
Health and Wellbeing in the Health Care Workplace (Magnet4Europe) £3.4M 2020-2023 (involving
Rafferty); and Better Treatments For Breathlessness In Palliative And End Of Life Care £3.1M
2019-2023 (CI Higginson, with Maddocks, Bajwah and King’s Physiology).

Since REF2014, UOA3 units have been involved in an increasing portfolio of Applied Global
Health Research including: the NIHR Global Health Unit ‘Health System Strengthening in Sub-
Saharan Africa’ £7M, 2017-2021 (CI Prince UOA4), with UOA3 teams leading Maternal Care
(Shennan, Poston, Sandall, Moore), Palliative Care (Harding,R, Gao, Higginson) and Dental
(Gallagher).

The UKRI Global Challenge Research Fund is financing UOA3 teams; large awards include:
Research for Health in Conflict, a network developing capability, partnerships and research in
the Middle and Near East (R4HC-MENA), £6M; 2017-2022 (with Harding,R) and The PRECISE
Network: PREgnancy Care Integrating Translational Science, Everywhere, £7.9M; 2017-2021
(CI von Dadelszen with Poston, Magee, Tribe, Sandall, Shennan), with an additional £4.1M from a
Wellcome Collaborative Award in Science (2021-2025) for the PRECISE-DYAD project following
mothers and their children.

3.2 King’s wide infrastructure relevant to UOA3 teams

Research development, delivery, quality, governance

UOA3 teams benefit from active support from, and collaborations with the King’s wide
infrastructure (REF5a). In addition to those in section 3.1, other infrastructure relevant to UOA3
include:

•   NIHR Research Design Service (RDS) London, led from King’s in partnership with major
    London universities, with consecutive five-year contracts (£6.35M, 2018-23).

•   King’s NIHR UKCRC Clinical Trials Unit. Specialist ‘spokes’ within the KCTU focussing on
    UOA3 trial needs were launched during this REF period (see section 1) focussing on nursing,
    midwifery, palliative care, dentistry and women and children’s health.


                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   NIHR Clinical Research Network and NIHR Clinical Research Facilities (CRFs). Our
    partner Trusts are consistently in the top five recruiting NHS Trusts in England, with
    recruitment in 2018-19 of 19,712 patients at King’s College Hospital (KCH), and 19,522 at
    Guy’s and St Thomas’ (GSTT), (2019-20 data not available due to COVID-19). UOA3 staff
    benefit from NIHR CRN support and staff including research nurses, nurses, midwives and trial
    managers. We lead specialties in dental, palliative care, diabetes, nutrition, and women and
    children (section 4). We make constant use of the adult CRF and a newly built Paediatric CRF
    at the St. Thomas’ site.

•   King’s medical imaging facilities, including 1.5T/3T/7T MR, PET/MR (+ cyclotron), XMR,
    PET/CT and embedded chemistry, for clinical and pre-clinical studies.

•   King’s Health Partners Clinical Trials Office supports commercial and non-commercial
    medicinal trials and provides Good Clinical Practice Training to our UOA3 research staff.

•   King’s Research Management & Innovation Directorate provides dedicated support for
    every aspect of research development, budgeting, contracting and activity.

•   The Centre for Research Staff Development helps research staff at all levels to achieve their
    potential, before, during and after their time at King’s, including in Research Governance,
    Research Ethics, Research Integrity and IP & Licensing. Library, data searching, repository,
    research integrity tools enable research teams to ensure the highest quality discovery and
    research practice.

•   Francis Crick Institute. UOA3 has been involved in close collaborations with the Crick,
    including secondments (Serio), Sabbaticals (Streit) and joint PhD students.

We also take advantage of the resources across King’s for collaboration and to stimulate high-
quality research (REF5a). These include financial support for; interdisciplinary collaborations
e.g. (King’s Together, KHP R&D Challenge Fund); early career researchers (King’s Prize
Fellowships); impact generation (Impact Acceleration Accounts); commercialisation (KHP
Accelerator and The Genesis Fund) and global engagement (Partnership fund). This has
increased UOA3 collaborations across King’s, e.g. UOA3 teams have 148 collaborative funding
awards with UOA1 PIs in this REF period.

Laboratory Sciences

King’s offers a wealth of core research facilities widely used by UOA3 staff (REF5a). Aside from
the GSTT/KCL BRC core facilities, which provide support such as flow cytometry and genomic
core support, pre-clinical studies are supported by Biological Services which provides a transgenic
mouse service, used extensively by staff in diabetes, women and children’s health and dentistry.
We also use the Mass Spectrometry and Proteomics Facility, the Nikon Imaging facility, Centre for
Ultrastructural Imaging and the Wellcome/BHF NMR and the London Metallomic Facilities. Our
research benefits from bioresources provided by many thousands of subjects, including the
Tommy’s charity Reproductive Health biobank and the Twins UK bioresource.

Clinical informatics and Digital health

UOA3 teams make extensive use of major linked data sets, nationally, locally, and internationally
to promote efficient population based, clinically applied and health and social care research.

King’s core facilities offer access to the hybrid cloud platform, ROSALIND which enables cross
disciplinary, data intensive research applications and analytics.




                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In collaboration between the King’s London Medical Imaging & AI Centre for Value-Based
Healthcare and Nvidia, we will have access to the UK’s most powerful supercomputer, Cambridge-
1, alongside in-house AI capabilities (Nvidia DGX-2) and expert support.

The Centre for Translational Informatics (£10M in refurbished space within the Maudsley NIHR
BRC) launched in June 2016, brings together King’s data science with NHS informatics. The
Centre hosts clinical informatics tools (e.g. the Clinical Record Interactive Search (CRIS) that
contains the anonymised electronic records of South London and Maudsley NHS Trust patients).

CRIS has underpinned the early-LIfe data cross-LInkage in Research study, which is linking
data from a deprived population of London (>600,000 people) served by three UK NHS hospitals
(two Acute, and one Mental Health Care) about pregnant women, infants and children (CI Poston,
UKRI funded). Established in 2018, with over 14,000 individual births per year, and the ability to
link routinely collected maternal and neonatal clinical data with biological samples, this is set to
become one of the largest mother–infant–child datasets in Europe. In addition to secondary care
data, it links to Lambeth DataNet, an anonymised patient-level source of primary care data,
containing 1.2M patient records in an inner South London multi-ethnic population with detailed
ethnicity coding. Future linkages include national datasets e.g. Hospital Episode Statistics and the
Human Fertility and Embryology Authority database.

CRIS provided opportunities for UOA3 team research, for example understanding place of death
from unnatural causes in people with serious mental health disorders (Gao, Higginson) and
emergency department attendance in the last year and months of life for people with dementia
(Sleeman, Higginson).

Building from the processes of CRIS, the King’s Electronic Record Research Interface (KERRI)
was launched in January 2020. The stakeholder committee is chaired by Higginson. Early projects
are delivering COVID-19 related research, for example on ethnicity and COVID-19 outcomes and
care access, including for those from minority ethnic groups.

Teams across UOA3 conduct collaborative research using the primary care Clinical Practice
Research Datalink (CPRD) (licence shared by researchers in UOAs 2,3 and 4) the real-world
research service supporting retrospective and prospective public health and clinical studies, with
linked Office of National Statistics and Hospital Episodes Data.

Additional topic specific clinical and population databases include the Office of National
Statistics Data anonymised Mortality records, held under licence in the Cicely Saunders
Institute (Higginson, Gao), with records from 1984 to present, and national palliative care outcomes
data. These have let to transformative research into factors associated with where patients die and
into the complexity and outcomes from palliative care.

Turner-Stokes leads the UK Rehabilitation Outcomes Collaborative (UKROC) national clinical
database, which has enabled research into the costs and efficiency of rehabilitation in different
care settings, in addition to enabling national audits and recent COVID-19 surveys.

These initiatives will be enhanced by the Innovate UK London AI Centre for Value-Based
Healthcare (led by King’s), which incorporates 4 universities, 6 industry partners, 11 small and
medium sized enterprises and 11 NHS Trusts across the South-East. The Centre aims to bring the
power of AI to transform healthcare pathways, providing both patient and economic benefit, and
has recently received c.£40m investment from Innovate UK, Office for Life Sciences and industry.

Commercialisation

Building on the Commercialisation Institute’s success, King’s recently launched the Med-Tech
Joint Venture Company between King’s and our partner NHS Trusts, Guy’s and St Thomas’


                                                                                            Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(GSTT) and King’s College Hospital (KCH), with a King’s investment in this joint venture of >£1.2M
a year (REF5a).

Successful commercial ventures in UOA3 include research led by Whelan which resulted in the
FODMAP App for people with Irritable Bowel Syndrome, enabling rapid recognition of suitable
foods from > 100,000 products in leading UK supermarkets.

ZOE Global Ltd combines artificial intelligence and digital technologies that have made major
contributions to the UK COVID pandemic response [ICS-05] and to understanding relationships
between gut microbes, health and diet.

The Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (IPS) has spawned several “spin-out” companies:
including Proximagen (sold recently with ~£12M returned to King’s), Verona Pharma and
MedPharm.

Our strategic decision to recruit and expand in the area of drug discovery with an emphasis on
cancer research and anti-infectives, has yielded significant results. A new company based on the
work of Thurston and Rahman, Femtogenix Ltd, was launched with major funding while retaining
an important shareholding for King’s. The aim is to develop a new generation of very potent
molecules – known as “payloads” - that can be attached to targeting systems and then used as a
form of highly specific chemotherapy to kill tumour cells with greatly reduced side effects.

More recently a new antibiotic company, Necobiotix has been formed to commercialise the new
efflux resistance antibiotics developed by Rahman in collaboration with Public Health England.
King’s has licensed the antibiotic asset to Biotaspheric while retaining a significant shareholding
in Necobiotix.

IPS has one of the largest Intellectual Property and Patent portfolios within King’s making 18
priority applications during this REF period, of which 12 proceeded to Patent Cooperation Treaty.

3.3 Deployed infrastructure within Faculties, Institutes and Schools

In addition to the rich infrastructure across King’s, UOA3 teams benefit from deployed
infrastructures that ensure the growth of our distinct disciplines, as well as interdisciplinary
advances and rapid translation into clinical impact.

Bespoke facilities for the main Faculties, Schools and Institutes within this submission are provided
across the four clinical and academic campuses of South London, adjacent to or within clinical
services of St Thomas’, Guy’s and King’s College Hospital NHS Foundation Trusts, their
associated community services and relevant clinical populations (REF5a).

Devolved administration to these sites provides support to academics for research grant
development and management. Research technicians, laboratory and database management staff
are also strategically sited.

Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences (FoDOCS)

FoDOCS is the largest Dental school in Europe, annually teaching 750 undergraduates and 450
postgraduates from 50 countries. Our clinical services support over 300,000 patients and we
produce 15% of UK’s new dental workforce.

Research in the faculty is supported by three dedicated research managers, while a team of ten
research technicians work across the faculty to support essential research and run facilities
(imaging, biological services, HTA support).



                                                                                                   Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The faculty has recently renovated space at Guy’s Hospital to establish a new bioinformatics
centre and an integrated hub with Unilever. Impact was embedded throughout the faculty by
positioning the Dental Innovation and Translation hub to work with each Centre, proactively
reviewing research to identify and support emerging impact.

Within the faculty we have state of the art lab facilities, including Zeiss and Leica confocal
microscopes and micro-computerised tomography for imaging, funded by multi-user equipment
grants (Wellcome Trust and UKRI: led by Tucker, Green, Knight). Dissecting microscopes, Zeiss
apotome microscope, and facilities for microfabrication, 3D printing and tissue culture are housed
in the faculty at Guy’s. Researchers have close access to the Guy’s Biological Services Unit and
Nikon imaging centre.

In addition, our Centre for Oral, Clinical and Translational Sciences at Guy’s includes the
Academic Centre of Reconstructive Science and the Oral Clinical Research Unit to enable
trials.

Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care (FoNMPC)

This is one of the largest Faculties of nursing and midwifery in the world. It now uniquely includes
palliative care, providing a focus for person-centred, applied health, social care and clinical
research.

To boost research, especially for early career researchers, in 2018 we launched a Research
Challenge Fund, complementing the King’s-wide Research Challenge Fund and providing pump-
priming funding. This led to a 160% increase in overhead earning income in 2019-20.

Our Cicely Saunders Institute for Palliative Care, Policy and Rehabilitation (CSI) is the world’s
first and only purpose-built Institute for palliative care, was co-designed with patients and families
and has awards for its sustainability (figure 3.3).

An atrium bridges research and clinical teams to increase interactions, with facilities for knowledge
exchange, PhD students, clinical research rooms, NHS and university computer networks, and the
Institute’s linked large data-sets.




Figure 3.3 Cicely Saunders Institute: external view and PhD students on atrium bridge



                                                                                             Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

In 2019, supported by the Garfield Weston Foundation and Cicely Saunders International we
enhanced the Institute’s technological support, with facilities for interactive tele-health and tele-
education.

Supported by the Clinical Research Network South London, the NIHR CLAHRC South London,
and the Wellcome Trust, in 2016 we launched the first ever virtual public and patient
involvement and engagement forum in palliative care, co-designed with patients and families
and co-evaluated in 2018 (Evans, Koffman).

All research divisions provide additional infrastructure with researcher development programmes,
modelled on CSI activities, including workshops, methodological seminars, journal clubs and
invited lectures.

Institute of Pharmaceutical Science (IPS)

IPS was created in 2010, building on a century-long history of pharmaceutical science education
and research at King’s, and is based primarily on the Waterloo Campus, with links across KHP.

School of Life Course Sciences (SoLCS)

SoLCS unites staff based across King’s Denmark Hill, Guy’s, St Thomas’ and Waterloo
Campuses.

Women and Children’s Health facilities, located at the St Thomas’, King’s and Guy’s Hospital
Campuses foster co-working with clinical teams in obstetrics, gynaecology and neonatology.
Resources included tissue culture, physiology, histology and molecular biology laboratories. A
large human sample biobank (St.Thomas’ site), supported by a new Lab management platform
(FreezerPro), incorporates the UKRI funded Tommy’s charity pregnancy biobank, the eLIXIR study
bioresource and an extensive prematurity bioresource (INSIGHT).

Diabetes Research is located at the Guy’s Campus (sharing laboratory space with Women &
Children’s Health) and Denmark Hill Campuses (with human islet transplantation and metabolic
surgery research).

Nutritional Sciences, on the Waterloo Campus, has four laboratory suites, equipped with a tissue
culture, histology, HPLC mass spectrometry, microscopy and molecular biology. A Metabolic
Research Unit, for nutritional studies, comprises a dietetics kitchen, dining rooms, phlebotomy
suite, lab areas and consultation rooms. Facilities for body composition (BodPod, Bioelectrical
Impedance), gut fermentation (breath test), appetite and cardiometabolic suites (e.g. Sphygmocor
and Flow Mediated Dilation) and sample processing (blood, stool, urine) are available.

Twin Research (DTR) and Genetic Epidemiology (including the section of Ophthalmology)
houses TwinsUK, the UK’s largest adult twin registry, and the most clinically detailed in the world
which has biobank status. This major genomic epidemiology resource collected over 20 years
contains over 500,000 biological samples relating to over 15,000 identical and non-identical twins
for the purposes of longitudinal deep phenotyping and large-scale multi-omics.




                                                                                              Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society
4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

Collaborations: International, Global Health and National

>60% of our submitted 507 research outputs included international (as well as other UK) co-
authors, from >50 countries, mainly across Europe, North America, Australia, Asia and Africa
(figure 4.1). A further 29% of our outputs include national collaborations beyond King’s (10% are
across King’s teams).

Our global collaborations, impact and reach are widened by our UOA leading two accredited
World Health Organisation (WHO) Collaborating Centres: for Oral Cancer/Precancer and for
Palliative Care, Policy and Rehabilitation. These centres contributed to our impacts, e.g ICS-02,
-03, -06, -09, -11. We plan a WHO Collaborating Centre for Children’s Health Systems and Policy.

We are partnering with the WHO Centre for Health Development based in Kobe (Japan) to
develop evidence-based services for older people at the end of life and are leading the WHO
evaluation of sustainable palliative care. Sandall and Edmond are WHO Committee members in
Women and Children’s Health. These global initiatives extend the reach and significance of our
impact, including to low-and middle-income countries’ settings.




Figure 4.1 Main regions of international authors on included outputs

We drive forward research strength and multidisciplinary collaboration for translation to global
settings with south-north and south-south as well as north-south learning. Supported by the new
King’s Global Health Institute (REF5a), we have an expanding research programme in dental,
palliative care, tele-health and women and children’s health in low-and middle-income countries
including India, Pakistan and those in Sub Saharan Africa.

Gallagher, a Dean for International Affairs, assists the WHO on workforce issues; Pitts leads the
Global Collaboratory for Caries Management Initiative [ICS -03], is chair of the Alliance for Cavity
Free Future and (with Bartlett) co-chair of the Erosive Tooth Wear Foundation [ICS-06]. As part of
the King’s Sierra Leone Partnership we are working with local leaders to help address their ‘silent
epidemic’ of tooth decay.

Harding,R leads two new UKRI funded studies; i) MAP-care, Multimorbid Ageing, Primary Palliative
Care in Ghana, Malawi and Zimbabwe, to create an African patient and public involvement
palliative care network, and develop novel care to integrate value-based care, patient-centred
outcome measurement, a decision support tool and staff mentorship and; ii) to develop a theory-
based workforce approach to strengthen health systems through person-centred care.


                                                                                            Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
von Dadelszen, Poston, Magee, Sandall, Tribe, Shennan are studying pregnancies affected by
placental disorders amongst >6000 women in The Gambia, Kenya, and Mozambique. The teams
developed a simple vital signs monitor, the CRADLE VSA, used in >500,000 women in Sub-
Saharan Africa, South Asia and the Caribbean in research and, now adopted widely e.g. by
UNICEF in Mali and Ugandan Refugee Camps, and by UNICEF, DfID and the Government in
Sierra Leone (Shennan).

We collaborate with diverse organisations, including universities, learned societies, charities,
industry, hospices, as appropriate to improve our science, relevance, productivity and impact.

To facilitate translation of our research to the clinic, we have formed extensive networks and
partnerships with key research users. These include health service providers, clinicians, service
managers and directors in hospitals, hospices and community services, in the NHS, the voluntary
sector and clinical services overseas, which have adopted our research to increase our impact.

Through these research and clinical collaborations and partnerships our research has led to new
ways to predict and prevent serious illnesses and deaths, extended the quality and quantity of life,
raised the profile of neglected groups and problems, discovered and tested solutions and improved
universal access to many aspects of care in the UK, Europe, Australia, Asia and Africa.

IPS entered into a strategic partnership with Public Health England in 2015 to develop new
research tools and antimicrobials to tackle antimicrobial resistance. Investigators from IPS (Mason,
Castagnolo, Rahman, Panaretou, Amison, Pitchford Page) have active research projects, iCASE
PhD studentships and/or grants jointly with Public Health England (Sutton, Bacon and Hind). This
partnership has also resulted in 3 new patents and formation of a new spin out company. Dr Mark
Sutton, who is the microbiology team leader at Public Health England, has a senior visiting
appointment in IPS to strengthen the relationship.

Clinical academic and Category C category contributions with NHS and related bodies

Partnerships with Category C staff (i.e., NHS, Industry or charity funded) are core to our scientific,
impact and career development strategies (section 1).

King’s has increasingly supported honorary university appointments and promotion for research
active clinicians, who work alongside academic teams on shared projects. Category C staff are co-
leaders of our Institutes and Clinical Academic Groups (all have clinical and academic leads), and
have access to infrastructure equal to King’s employed staff, including in seminars, research and
staff development meetings.

IPS has extended its infrastructure reach outside King’s by making senior visiting appointments
including Professor Sir Anthony Coates (St George's University of London), Professor Sir Kent
Woods (MHRA), Professor Barbara Mulloy and Dr Elaine Gray (NIBSC), and leading figures from
the pharmaceutical industry. These appointments strengthen our influence on government and
policy makers and raise the visibility of IPS.

These visitors contribute to our education programmes and the vibrancy of our research
environment. The close association with KHP has led to the creation of a range of pioneering
clinical academic positions for practitioners in the Trusts, providing the incumbents with appropriate
recognition and status, and IPS with increased access to clinicians for research and teaching. This
is the first time such clinical pharmacy academics have been so recognised in King’s – we
currently have more than 50 such appointments.

SoLCS has created honorary clinical Professorships since 2014 in recognition of excellence in
research including; Oteng-Ntim, Khalaf; Inusa, Barker and Jackson; a further 28 clinicians have
been awarded honorary titles for their key roles in research.



                                                                                              Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Collaborations with clinical care providers have enabled us to undertake clinical trials and translate
research into practice in multiple settings, in the UK and overseas. For example, in the UK and
Africa, we demonstrated the efficacy of placental growth factor measurement in the management
of pre-eclampsia, and the efficacy of abdominal cerclage in the prevention of pre-term birth.

We developed the curriculum for the DAFNEplus intervention for self-management in type 1
diabetes (Amiel, Choudhary), and a type 1 diabetes consultation tool (T1C) for diabetes
consultations, which is now adopted internationally (Choudhary).

We found that surgery is more effective than medical treatment in controlling glycaemia in obese
people with type 2 diabetes and proposed the inclusion of metabolic surgery in the treatment
algorithm for type 2 diabetes (Rubino).

We are improving access to palliative and end of life care in underserved groups, nationally and
globally, underpinning a move towards universal access. UOA3 researchers developed the
Palliative care Outcome Scale (POS), which, in the UK, is recommended as part of the Palliative
Care Clinical Dataset; its renal version was used to develop a national programme supported by
NHS England. POS registered users, via the dedicated website, increased to 14,871 from 150
countries in 2020 [ICS-09].

Our evidence-based tools to better manage severe breathlessness in advanced illness (Higginson)
are now widely used in clinical teams across Europe, Australia and the Americas [ICS-02].

4.2 Contribution to economy, industry and charitable sectors

Industry and Patents

We collaborate and partner with pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, including; Unilever (an
on-site hub), Merck, PlGF HOLOGIC, Quidel, Roche, Sanofi, Pfizer, Danone, Novo Nordisk,
Evolve Biosystems, ZOE, engineering, care homes, and in developing wound care products with
the fashion industry. This is aided by the extensive King’s infrastructure for commercialisation
(section 3).

For example, we have developed novel drugs and drug classes for both treatment and diagnosis
(including in Thalassaemia, Parkinson’s, prostate cancer, and asthma/COPD).

We have collaborated with Durham University (health photonics) to address an unmet clinical need
in dentistry through the development of a commercially viable system for safe detection and
monitoring of initial-stage dental decay in 3D. This patented development is now being taken
forward as a Spin-out Company – NirVisio.

Patents filed over this REF period include; a patent based around Candidalysin, a hypha specific
cytolytic peptide toxin (Moyes); fabrication of solid dosage form through 3D printing (Alhnan);
polypeptides for Use in Therapy (Persaud); engineered skin equivalent, method of manufacture
thereof and products derived therefrom (Ilic); formation of new dental materials that stimulate repair
(Sharpe); method for detecting the presence of the viable cells in an endodontic sample
(Mannocci); Trans Buccal Naloxone (Royall).

King’s is the grant-holding partner of MedCity (REF5a) the cluster organisation for the health and
life sciences sector in London, which helps UOA3 teams drive growth and investment for the health
and wealth of the population, particularly through attracting commercial investment from venture
capital and large companies.




                                                                                             Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Charity and third sector partnerships

We partner with key international charities, for example the Foundation of European Nurses in
Diabetes, hosting their centre and Professor (Forbes,A), and Cicely Saunders International
(delivering international capacity building).

We partner with local charities such as Guy’s and St Thomas’ Charity and local hospices, and
national charities such as Tommy’s (the largest UK charity researching the causes and prevention
of pregnancy complications, miscarriage, stillbirth, premature birth and neonatal death), Diabetes
UK, Hospice UK, The True Colours Trust and many more.

In 2016/2017, the Fetal Medicine Foundation charity donated £22 million to KCH NHS Trust for
investment in fetal medicine services and a new Fetal Medicine Research Institute (figure 4.2), with
its internationally acclaimed clinical research programme (Director: Nicolaides).




Figure 4.2 External view of the Fetal Medicine Research Institute, Denmark Hill Campus, King’s,
and internal view, allied health professionals and charities networking

Partnerships with patients and the public

As outlined in sections 1 and 3 we partner with patients and the public, and support infrastructure
to do this, to enrich our research, dissemination and implementation. These are key drivers of, and
contributors to our programmes, and are funded following NIHR Involve best practice.

4.3 Contribution to Society Through Changes in Health Care Policy

We contribute to the evidence base used by policy makers in the UK Department of Health and
Social Care, NHS England, Public Health England, Monitor, Scottish and Welsh Health and Social
Services, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and governments and
policies overseas in high, medium and low resource regions, and inter-governmental organisations
such as the WHO and the European Commission.

This is achieved through our extensive networks and exchanges, and collaboration with King’s
Policy Institute. For example, UOA3 researchers have:
• impacted on individual and umbrella service-user organisations that influence policy such as
    the European Cancer Patient Coalition, the National Childbirth Trust and the Neurological
    Alliance
• formed the Alliance for a Cavity Free Future (ACFF) which worked with King’s Policy Institute
    to hold three innovative Dental “Policy Labs”. These were attended by Chief Dental Officers
    from UK, Europe, North America and Asia and have already led to significant changes in policy
    and practice in a number of countries including France and Belgium [ICS-03]


                                                                                           Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   changed multiple international guidelines, for example; reversed existing public health strategy
    for peanut allergy treatment in children [ICS-08]; new access to palliative care for people with
    HIV or Heart Failure [ICS-09]; new prescribing guidelines and practice for antibiotic use in
    children [ICS-01]
•   changed multiple National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines including
    on: antimicrobial stewardship - changing risk-related behaviours in the general population;
    Vitamin D: increasing supplement use in at-risk groups; Preventing Suicide in community and
    custodial settings, (all Prevost, plus 6 other NICE guidelines); management of irritable bowel
    syndrome (IBS, the low FODMAP diet (Fermentable Oligo-saccharides, Di-saccharides, Mono-
    saccharides and Polyols)(Whelan); respiratory and end of life care on management of
    breathlessness and access to care (Maddocks); the control of blood pressure in pregnancy
    (Magee). Renton is Clinical NICE advisor for M3M surgical guidelines
•   changed multiple other guidelines for example, updated Faculty of General Dental Practice
    (guidelines for antimicrobial prescribing in dentistry, Ide); Royal College of Obstetrics and
    Gynaecology Green Tope Guidelines, European Society of Human Reproduction and
    Embryology guidelines; Maudsley Prescribing Guidelines in Psychiatry; management in
    pregnant women of: Sepsis; Hypertension in Pregnancy
•   contributed to the international consensus on the use of continuous glucose monitoring in
    diabetes (Amiel)
•   found that women who receive continuity of care before, during and after birth are less likely to
    have a preterm birth and lose babies informing Australian, Irish, WHO and UK maternity policy
•   led an evidence-based model of a prematurity surveillance clinic, now approved by the NHS for
    adoption across the UK
•   developed an app for prediction of premature birth recommended by NHS England, which has
    been downloaded > 2000 times
•   discovered that measurement of a placental protein in maternal blood can improve outcomes
    for women with threatened pre-eclampsia, adopted for use in the NHS
•   changed NHS commissioning through evaluation of specialist rehabilitation services and
    outcome and complexity assessment [ICS-11]
•   developed UK guidelines for investigation and management of failing pancreas grafts, which
    were adopted by the Pancreas Advisory Group and the British Transplant Society (Choudhary,)
•   changed national and international prescribing guidelines for anticoagulant drugs in high-risk
    populations leading to health care improvements for the population (Patel)
•   led to action to reduce polypharmacy related deaths (Copeland)
•   collaborated with Public Health England to improve understanding of and tackle antimicrobial
    resistance (Bruce).

Our findings are used by multiple national/international professional associations including: the UK
Royal Colleges (across professions and specialty), European Association for Palliative Care
(EAPC), Association for Palliative Medicine (APM), British Society of Rehabilitation Medicine
(BSRM), British Society for Maternal and Fetal Medicine, Society for Reproductive Investigation
(SRI, USA), International Society for the Study of Hypertension in Pregnancy, International Society
for the Developmental Origins of Health and Disease, the Physiological Society, the International
Confederation of Midwives, Federation of European Nutrition Societies.

TwinsUK data and samples are used by a large body of external researchers worldwide. Freely
accessible ‘omics data include gene expression, whole genome sequences epigenetics and
microbiome (all deposited in appropriate repositories such as European Genome Archive or
ArrayExpress). TwinsUK approves ~130 data or sample applications per year and has shared over
150,000 samples with external groups since 2012 from our biobank. Genome-wide summary
statistics are incorporated into freely accessible online portals such as the Type 2 Diabetes
Knowledge Portal and the Metabolomics Genome-wide association studies server.




                                                                                            Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.4 Contributions and collaboration to strengthen the research base

National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)

Integration and co-working with NIHR infrastructure (section 3) and clinical services locally,
nationally and internationally gives our teams across the UOA multiple layers of co-working and
collaboration to boost sustainability and innovation.

We have two NIHR Research Professors Chappell and Howard (latter is IoPPN, UOA4, Perinatal
Mental Health in key collaboration) and nine NIHR Senior Investigators (including Emeritus):
Chappell, Greenough, Higginson, Howard (IoPPN), Manthorpe, Poston, Sandall, Spector,
Williamson.

The NIHR awarded national leadership for palliative and end of life care jointly to South
London NIHR Applied Research Collaborative (ARC) and East of England ARC (Higginson with
Barclay, Cambridge).

Teams from our UOA lead key components of the NIHR South London Clinical Research Network;
Shennan is joint Clinical Director the South London Network; Renton then Bannerjee leads for
dental studies; Bajwah for palliative care; Winkley for diabetes; Mr N Kametas (King’s College
Hospital, Category C) for reproductive health and childbirth.

The Cicely Saunders Institute hosts the Clinical Research Network South London palliative care
research nurses, who lead recruitment and provide training across South London and nationally.

Recruitment to NIHR portfolio clinical trials in South London in Women and Child Health is
regularly the highest of any UK institution; 16,392 were recruited for women’s health 2015-2020.

Over the last five years, the Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology has enrolled
21,565 twins in clinical studies (R & D EDGE Data), including 6,620 to CRN portfolio studies.

Teams across the UOA are active in supporting NIHR funding panels and reviews.

Cross-disciplinary and interdisciplinary collaborations

In this REF period, we have held interdisciplinary research grants with all nine King’s Health
Faculties, and multiple other partners including clinical, industry, charity and patient-led
organisations.

Our cross- and interdisciplinary collaborations drive new methods to deliver substantial
contributions to the research base, economy and society, for example:

Significant advances in the understanding of the aetiology of disease:
• TwinsUK registry the major genomic epidemiology resource with data from over 15,000 adult
   twins has led to understanding of the genetic basis of several common diseases.
• Identified nearly 450 genetic loci associated with myopia, leading to a new understanding of
   myopia development.
• Showed that colonic short chain fatty acids improve beta-cell function in humans by decreasing
   beta-cell apoptosis and increasing insulin secretion (Persaud).

Significant improvement in research methods:
• Developed outcome and economic measures, and trial methods to appropriately detect change
   in progressive illness and for older, frail populations.
• Produced guidance in the methods of involving people who lack capacity in research (Evans).



                                                                                             Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Advanced methods of data linkage and electronic health records for more efficient,
    collaborative research, e.g. in women’s health to create a dynamic Learning Health System.
•   Refined novel adaptive designs for clinical trials (e.g. UKRI-funded TRIBUTE trial in
    Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Prevost).

Significant improvements in health:
• Improved mental health practice, service development, education and policy, supporting the
   development of a ‘recovery research’ community in mental health (Leamy).
• Found that a maternal lifestyle (nutrition and physical activity) intervention in obese pregnant
   women reduces maternal weight gain and improves maternal metabolic health (Poston).
• Developed a model of the management of dental anxiety of stepped care with psychological
   interventions tailored to the individual’s level of dental anxiety. This has been implemented
   through the development of dental services delivering Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for dental
   phobia, interventions to support children attending for General Anaesthetic and interventions to
   support the oral health of people who are anxious about visiting the dentist.

Significant improvements in care:
• Developed a user-friendly way of identifying non-adherence in routine care and training
   clinicians in how best to help patients deal with medication adherence challenges.
• Developed and validated methods to evaluate rehabilitation, with tools to match programmes to
   individual patient needs, measure outcomes and demonstrate value for money, with average
   net life-time savings in care costs of >£670,000 per patient (Turner-Stokes).

4.5 Wider contributions to research environment beyond King’s

UOA3 staff at all stages of their career contribute to the wider research environment beyond
King’s. They support the research funding and publication processes, take on advisory roles and
serve on multiple committees and advisory panels. Much of their work has been recognised in
national and international honours and prizes. Below are some examples of this work:

National Leadership Roles:
Chappell, Chief Scientific Adviser, Department of Health & Social Care (from August 2021).
Sandall, NHS England and Improvement’s Head of Midwifery Research (2021).

Selected Journal Editors/Editorial Board members:
Banerjee, Oral Health & Preventive Dentistry (Editor in Chief), Choudhary, Diabetic Medicine
(Associate Editor); Norman, International Journal of Nursing Studies (Editor in Chief), Page,
Pharmacological Reviews, (Associate Editor), Persaud, Diabetic Medicine (Basic Science Editor),
Proctor, Archives of Oral Biology (Editor in Chief), Simpson, Journal of Mental Health (Editor),
Xyrichis, Journal of Interprofessional Care (Editor in Chief), Williams,F European Spine Journal
and Pain (Associate editor).

Funding panels:
Bewick, Grant review committee for EFSD Sanofi programme, Chappell, Chair NIHR Health
Technology Assessment Clinical Evaluation and Trials committee, Evans, NIHR Central
Commissioning Facility – appointed College of Experts for the Joint DHSC/UKRI Global Effort of
COVID-19 (GECO) Health Research call, Marie Curie, Forbes,A, Novo Nordisk UK Research
charity board, Hammond, Chair, Fight for Sight Grants Advisory Panel, Gao, NIHR Programme
Grants for Applied Research; European Commission, Horizon 2020, Harding,S. NIHR COVID-19
funding panel, Higginson, NIHR HTA Efficient Designs Panel; NIHR Palliative Care Panel, NIHR
Health Services and Development Research Panel, Howard, MRC Panel Newton Fund, Jones(P),
Diabetes Research and Wellness Foundation Research Advisory Board, NC3Rs Fellowship Panel,
King, Diabetes UK Research Committee, Liu,K, (ERC) Chair BBSRC People and Talent Early
career researchers subgroup, MacDermott (ERC) UKRI COVID-19 funding panel, Magee, Chair,
Maternal Medicine Clinical Studies Group, RCOG; WHO Maternal Morbidity Working Group,
Naglik, Research Foundation Flanders (Belgium) Grant Panel Board Member; Persaud,

                                                                                          Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
EFSD/Boehringer Ingelheim and EFSD/MSD grant research committees; Diabetes UK research
committee; Diabetes Research and Wellness Foundation Swedish Research Advisory Board;
Poston, MRC Global Health Board; MRC African Research Leader Board; Wellcome Trust Sir
Henry Dale Fellowship Committee; Prevost, NIHR Public Health Research Funding Committee,
NIHR COVID Recovery and Learning Research Funding Committee, Robert, Royal College of
Physicians of Ireland, Grant Selection Review Panel, Sandall, NIHR Advanced Fellowship Panel;
MRC-NIHR panel for research to improve global maternal and neonatal health; Shennan, HTA
Commissioning Board, Streit, BBSRC: Lola Committee, Sturt, Novo Nordisk UK Research
Foundation funding panel, Tribe, Wellbeing of Women Research Advisory Committee; Tucker,
Chair, RNID International Discovery grant panel, Taylor, Wellbeing of Women Committee, Tribe,
Wellbeing of Women, Wellcome Trust Physiology Panel, Canada (CIHR); Weinman, NIHR sub-
board for Programme Grants for Applied Research and Programme Development Grants;
Williams,F, Paget Trust Research Subcommittee, Discovering Innovative Solutions for Conditions
of the Spine(DISCS) executive committee; Whelan, NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic
Programme; Williamson MRC PSMB Board; MRC Population Health Strategy Group, MRC
Multimorbidity Working Group, Society of Endocrinology Science Committee.

Other Societies, Committees, Panels:
Chappell, President, Blair Bell Research Society, Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists (RCOG); National Maternal Early Warning Score (MEWS) design group, NHS
England; COVID-19 Recovery and Learning Funding Committee; NIHR EME Strategic Advisory
Committee, Higginson, Academy of Medical Sciences, co-chair of End of life and palliative care
policy catalysis, member of Public Health group, Lee, Member of NICE Guideline committee for
Atrial Fibrillation, Legido-Quigley, Scientific Advisory Board Member, Institute Pasteur, Lille,
France, Liu,Y.F (ECR), TrialNet Steering Committee member, Page, President Elect of the British
Pharmacological Society, Poston, Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition, and Maternal and
Child Nutrition Sub- Group; Public Health England; Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists (RCOG) Chair Research Committee, Sandall, NIHR Academy Nursing and
Midwifery Incubator Member; NICE implementation Strategy Group Member, NHS England,
London Maternity Strategic Clinical Leadership Group, NHS England Maternity transformation;
Continuity of Care Expert Group; NHS England London Capital Midwife Steering Group; WHO
South-East Asia Region Technical Advisory Group for Women’s and Children’s Health (SEAR-
TAG); WHO Strategic and Technical Advisory Group of Experts (STAGE) for maternal, newborn,
child, adolescent health and nutrition reporting to Director General; Australia Centre for Stillbirth
Research Excellence – Safer baby Bundle Timing of Birth Research Group; Global RMC Council
member, White Ribbon Alliance. Spector, Member of Spi-M reporting to SAGE during COVID-19
pandemic, Tribe, Chair, the Physiological Society Membership and Grants Committee, The
Preterm Birth International Collaborative, PREBIC, European Chapter Executive, USA Society for
Reproductive Investigation Membership and Nominations Committee. von Dadelszen, Chair,
Global Health Clinical Studies Group, Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists,
Williams,C UK Medicines and Healthcare Regulatory Agency Expert opioids expert working group
committee, UK Medicines and Healthcare Regulatory Agency Expert committee (rheumatology),
Williamson, British Maternal and Fetal Medicine Society Executive.

National Honours:
DBE, Rafferty, CBE Sandall, Poston. OBE, Higginson, Page, Spector, Thatcher, Wolfe, Shennan.
MBE, Gallagher. Order of the Star of Italy, Di Silvio

Research Prizes:
Amison (ECR), 2019 American Journal of Respiratory Cell and Molecular Biology Award for Most
Outstanding Paper by a Junior Investigator, Bartlett, IADR distinguished scientist 2017,
Copeland, British Pharmacological Society's Bill Bowman Travelling Prize Lectureship in 2018,
Cobourne, Charles Tomes Medal (2015), Royal College of Surgeons of England, Curtis,
European Federation of Periodontology: Distinguished Scientist Award 2016, Higginson, Trial of
the Year 2014, American Society of Clinical Oncology for breathlessness trial, European
Association for Palliative Care, Ventafridda award (2018), Lack, Trial of the Year 2015 awarded by
the Society for Clinical Trials for “Randomized Trial of Peanut Consumption in Infants at Risk for

                                                                                             Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Peanut Allergy”, European Academy of Allergy & Clinical Immunology Daniel Bovet Award 2018,
Ovadia (ECR), RCOG Harold Malkin Award 2019, Poston, USA Society of Reproductive
Investigation, Life Time Achievement Award 2017; Sleeman, 1st European Association of
Palliative Care award for Women in Palliative Care; Tribe, Physiological Society GL Brown Prize
Lecture Award, 2019.

Fellowships:
There are 10 Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences in UOA3 during this REF period; 5 men
(Challacombe, Curtis, Houslay, Lack, Spector) and 5 women (Chappell, Higginson, Poston,
Rafferty, Williamson).

Examples of other Fellowships held are Coward, Fellow of the Institute of Maxillofacial Prosthetists
& Technologists, Deb, Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, Di Silvio, Fellow of Biomaterials
Science and Engineering, Fellow Institute of Materials, Mining and Minerals, Harris, Fellow of the
European Academy of Nursing Science, Houlsay, Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh;
Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology, Lack, Wolfe Fellow of the Royal College of Paediatrics and
Child Health, Maret, Mason, Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, Nandi, Fellow of the British
Pharmacological Society, Norman, Fellow of the American Academy of Nursing, Fellow of the
Royal College of Nursing, Pitchford, Fellow of British Pharmacology Society (in process), Renton,
Honorary Fellow American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons, Rose, Fellow of the
American Academy of Nurses, Salvage, Elected fellow of the British Pharmacological Society,
Sleeman, Winston Churchill Memorial Trust fellowship, Taylor, Fellow of Royal College of
Physicians (Edinburgh) - the only pharmacist fellow, Thurston, Fellow of the Royal Pharmaceutical
Society, Fellow of the Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tribe, Physiology Society Fellow,
Vllasaliu, Fellowship of the Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Great Britain, Woodward,
Fellow Royal College of Nursing.




                                                                                           Page 42
