Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: Anthropology and Development Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Unit context
 Anthropology and Development Studies at Edinburgh is thriving. We are a dynamic, diverse, and
 engaged collective of scholars committed to investigating and understanding the questions and
 challenges that characterise our social, cultural, political, and economic worlds. As in REF2014,
 this UoA encompasses two longstanding and intricately linked centres of excellence: Social
 Anthropology, established in 1946, and the Centre of African Studies (CAS), established in
 1962. Sustaining a long-term strategy of expansion, the UoA has again grown substantially
 within this REF period: this submission comprises 65 staff (63.5fte), an increase of >84% in fte
 since our already inclusive REF2014 submission of 37 staff (34.45fte), including for instance 16
 additional open-ended Lecturer appointments due to increased demand for teaching or
 backfilling for staff on externally funded research grants. We have improved our gender balance:
 women now comprise 48% of Category A staff returned in this submission (up from 38% in
 REF2014). Focused recruitment efforts are reflected in substantial increases in PhD student
 numbers: we have increased our annual PhD completion numbers by 46% to 13.7pa (up from
 9.4pa in REF2014), and our annual PhD completion numbers will continue to rise as our newer
 colleagues begin to see their doctoral students through to PhD submission.
 Building on our excellent track record in securing external research grants reported in REF2014,
 and drawing on our international networks and interdisciplinary collaborations, we have secured
 >£15m in external research funding (averaging £2.15m pa, up c244% from £882k pa in
 REF2014). Major highlights include: four new ERC grants totalling >€7.2m; ODA/GCRF grants
 totalling >£10m (fEC); 13 externally funded Research Fellowships (of which 10 were for ECRs)
 totalling >£2.8m. Our success rate in grant applications is >35%. Alongside this growth in fte and
 research income, we have sustained our high quality of internationally acclaimed publications
 and impact beyond the academy. Monographs, co-edited books, and journal special issues
 contribute two-fifths of our Outputs submission (58 of 142). Our Impact Case Studies draw on
 engagements and relationships already established and identified in REF2014, showcasing our
 approach to impact that combines empirical research with sustained stakeholder engagement.
 Research strategy
 Our strategy is driven by a commitment to understanding and addressing injustice across
 multiple social and cultural realms through research and engagement on health and wellbeing,
 infrastructure and innovation, and politics and law. Over the REF period we have sought to
 realise this goal through two main strategic priorities. First, we have built clusters of expertise
 around key intellectual and societal challenges by making early career appointments and
 supporting ambitious collaborative projects. This has involved strengthening our longstanding
 areas of expertise, such as political violence, religion in society, and relatedness and
 relationships, via major ERC funding. We have supported expansion in exciting new directions,
 including health and wellbeing and in infrastructure and innovation, underpinned by major ERC
 and ODA/GCRF funding. Second, across these areas we have strengthened our impact beyond
 the academy through building and sustaining enduring, multimodal, and multifaceted
 relationships with academic and non-academic institutions around the globe. Our approach is
 driven by a commitment to foster north/south dialogue and equitable partnerships, exemplified in
 our extensive portfolio of ODA/GCRF projects. We are experimenting with innovative co-
 production and Open Research, epitomised by our work on media cultures and our collective
 editorship of the open-access journal Medical Anthropology Theory. Our strategic investment in


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 medical anthropology (via our PG programmes and the Edinburgh Centre for Medical
 Anthropology) and international development (underpinned by our PG programmes and
 ODA/GCRF funding) meant that we were exceptionally well placed to respond to the COVID-19
 pandemic.
 Alongside our many external research partnerships, we also work closely with one another,
 forging networks, exchange of ideas, and collaboration amongst ourselves and with those
 around us in Edinburgh, and we proactively encourage early career researchers to join us. The
 success of this strategy can be seen in our many internal research partnerships, especially
 those that bring together emerging and established UoA colleagues with diverse sub-disciplinary
 backgrounds in order to facilitate mentorship towards sustainable research careers. By fostering
 an inclusive and outward-facing research environment focused on collaboration and mentorship,
 we have successfully built a large and lively UoA with correspondingly diverse research
 interests. Our overlapping interests coalesce in six themes:
   i)    Health and wellbeing, including our new flagship Edinburgh Centre for Medical
         Anthropology.
  ii)    Infrastructure and innovation, incorporating environment, energy, and extractive
         industries, technologies, agriculture and rural livelihoods, economic development, and
         the Futureproofing Anthropology Collective.
  iii)   Politics and law, incorporating peace and conflict, political violence, human rights and
         justice, governance and security, and migration and displacement.
  iv)    Religion in society, particularly anthropology of Christianity, religion and secularism, and
         religion and conflict.
  v)     Relatedness and relationships, incorporating kinship, gender, sexualities.
  vi)    Media cultures, including the interdisciplinary Atelier: Creative Arts and the Social
         Sciences Network, film, cultural heritage, materiality.
 Each research theme is sustained by a critical mass of expertise, but many colleagues work and
 collaborate across or at the intersections between two or more of our research themes.
 i) Health and wellbeing: We are a centre of social science expertise in health and wellbeing, with
 strengths in mental health, global health, infectious disease, diagnostic technologies, and sexual
 and reproductive health. We are particularly interested in how biomedical models of illness
 travel, are interrogated, and are incorporated into forms of governance. We seek to understand
 the problems that emerge when formal healthcare systems interact with informal care and with
 social factors such as poverty, violence, and the politics of reproduction. Our flagship Edinburgh
 Centre for Medical Anthropology (EdCMA, established in 2015) brings together the largest
 concentration of medical anthropologists in Europe. The bulk of work on three health and
 wellbeing ERC grants took place during this REF period. Edmonds’s €1.5m ERC Starting Grant
 (2013–19) explored how military veterans in the UK, USA, Netherlands, and Israel navigate
 health and wellbeing during and after military service, revealing the tensions within military
 medicine between normalising and pathologising violence. Smith’s €1.5m ERC Advanced Grant
 with Taylor (2012–18) examined how African trypanosomiasis (aka sleeping sickness) has been
 researched, controlled, and treated. Street’s €1.5m ERC Starting Grant with Taylor (2017–22)
 explores the emergent role that diagnostic devices are playing in the transformation of global
 health partnerships and national health systems in low and middle-income countries and aims to
 improve understanding of the relationships between technological innovation and health systems
 strengthening. Harper and Sharma’s collaborative £270k (fEC) ESRC/DfID project found that the
 outsourcing of aid, value for money, and results frameworks allowed little institutional space for
 embedding either political economy or socio-cultural evidence into the design, implementation,
 and evaluation of maternal and child health projects in Nepal and Malawi. Kalinga’s £213k
 Wellcome medical humanities project investigated how indigenous literary practices can promote



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 community engagement with public health. Zabiliute’s €184k Marie Curie fellowship explored
 how diabetes patients in Delhi negotiate everyday life challenges outwith clinical settings.
 EdCMA members have published an outstanding set of monographs on statecraft and health.
 Harper’s Development and Public Health in the Himalaya: Reflections on Healing in
 Contemporary Nepal (2014) examines traditional healers, infectious disease, micronutrient
 initiatives, mental health, and mission-based development in Nepal to show how local realities
 align with, resist, and are complicated by globalised narratives and practices of health and
 development. Qureshi’s AIDS in Pakistan: Bureaucracy, Public Goods and NGOs (2018)
 examines how global policies were translated by local actors and how they responded to the
 evolving HIV/AIDS crisis to reconsider the orthodoxy of policies on public-private partnership in
 Pakistan. Street’s Biomedicine in an Unstable Place: Infrastructure and Personhood in a Papua
 New Guinean Hospital (2014) reveals how hospital infrastructures in PNG are relational
 technologies that are fundamentally fragile but also offer crucial opportunities for making people
 visible and knowable in new, unpredictable, and powerful ways. In January 2020, the EdCMA
 editorial collective took over collaborative editorship of the OA online journal Medicine
 Anthropology Theory.
 ii) Infrastructure and innovation: Our expertise encompasses environment, energy, extractive
 industries, infrastructure, technologies, agriculture and rural livelihoods, and economic
 development. We pursue an intersectional, bottom-up, decolonial approach to the study of
 international and sustainable development, with interests in development interventions in the
 Global South and Global North alike, and we privilege the perspectives, knowledge and agency
 of local aid providers and beneficiaries. Since the publication of his book Dream Zones:
 Anticipating Capitalism and Development in India (2014), Cross has developed an extensive
 portfolio of work exploring how interventions in contexts of chronic energy poverty are being
 shaped by markets: a £303k (fEC) GCRF Forced Displacement project on energy infrastructures
 in refugee camps and settlements in sub-Saharan Africa, and EPSRC research on distributed
 ledgers or block chains in East Africa's off grid energy markets. A cluster of work on the political
 economy of extractive industries and resource governance includes Spiegel’s £345k (fEC)
 ESRC Future Research Leaders Grant on mining and trans-boundary resource management
 along the Zimbabwe-Mozambique border, which explores what displacement means to different
 rural actors and how challenges are negotiated in pursuing resource-dependent livelihoods.
 Spiegel’s work aims to enhance policies for addressing livelihood insecurity on both sides of the
 border. Sharma leads a cluster of work on infrastructures: his £372k (fEC) ESRC/ICSSR project
 on low-income migrant workers’ access to basic services and protection in urban India aims to
 generate evidence to advance the rights and protection mechanisms that must be planned and
 provided for low-income urban migrants. Sharma also collaborated on a GCRF Resilience grant
 that found that infrastructure development relating to flood resilience creates new opportunities
 and a sense of security but also exposes people to new vulnerabilities including precarity and
 increased risks of flooding due to rivers changing course, decreased drainage, and the
 breaching of embankments. Cooper-Knock's interdisciplinary work with engineers in Edinburgh
 and South Africa addresses responses to informal settlement fires in Cape Town. Muñoz’s work
 on the ERC AFRIGOS project investigated the patterns of governance that are emerging across
 the African continent out of unprecedented levels of investment in transport infrastructure.
 Jeffery’s work on the ERC ROADS project explored the development of connective infrastructure
 in the Maldives. Hackl’s £303k (fEC) ESRC New Investigator Grant explores the contribution of
 digitally mediated labour to the provision of decent work and livelihoods among displaced people
 in Berlin and Beirut.
 Recruits within this REF period enhance our expertise in agriculture, rural livelihoods, and
 economic development in Africa with significant research projects and monographs. Muñoz’s
 Doing Business in Cameroon: An Anatomy of Economic Governance (2018) examines the
 aftermath of turbulence and unpredictability in Ngaoundéré to illuminate a set of shifting

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 configurations in which economic outcomes like monetary gains or the circulation of goods are
 achieved by foregoing the possibility of relying on or complying with the law. Gray’s Turbulence
 and Order in Economic Development: Economic Transformation in Tanzania and Vietnam
 (2018), which was shortlisted for the International Convention of Asia Scholars Asia-Africa book
 award, examines the role of the state in economic transformation in Tanzania and Vietnam to
 argue that their respective paths of economic transformation were mediated by the lasting
 influence of differences in the institutions and distributions of power that had been forged during
 the socialist period. Bowman and Gray’s collaborative £650k (fEC) GCRF Inclusive Societies
 project on innovation and inclusive industrialisation in agro-processing in South Africa and
 Tanzania investigates how governments can foster the inclusion of SMEs in food value chains
 and help them upgrade their technological capabilities.
 Due to our combined and collaborative expertise in i) health and wellbeing and ii) infrastructure
 and innovation, we are exceptionally well placed to help make sense of the longer-term social
 ramifications of disruptive change during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which straddles our
 current and future research activities. In spring 2020, EdCMA launched the COVID-Perspectives
 blog of social science and arts and humanities research on COVID-19, and Qureshi co-
 organised an online panel discussion on COVID-19 in Pakistan. In summer 2020, UoA
 colleagues secured grants for COVID-19 rapid response research: Cooper-Knock on lockdown
 diaries in Cape Town (£16k); Cross on energy access in sub Saharan Africa (£4k) and on
 breakdowns in UNHCR’s supply chains for electronic spares and equipment (£131k fEC);
 Falisse to develop an interactive dataset of COVID-19 governance in Africa (£60k); Street to
 examine whether technology-focused responses to the 2014–16 Ebola epidemic in West Africa
 prepared Sierra Leone’s health system for COVID-19 (£10k); Street on public perceptions, trust,
 expectations, and experiences of COVID-19 testing in Lothian (£30k); Wagner on Syrian food
 security intelligence and evidence-based interventions for sustainable local development.
 Several UoA colleagues are embarking on new research that engages directly with the COVID-
 19 pandemic, for instance: Anwar’s £10k (fEC) British Academy/Leverhulme project on informal
 workers and the pandemic in Africa; Cruz’s digital ethnography of kinship and disinformation
 concerning COVID-19 and the rise of populism in the Philippines; Molony and Falisse’s
 collaborative £379k (fEC) Newton GCRF project on African elections during the pandemic;
 Wagner’s £101k (fEC) AHRC project on COVID-19 and modern slavery.
 iii) Politics and law: We seek to understand the key political questions of our time, from migration
 and nationalism, to political violence and social movements. We take an approach that looks for
 politics in unexpected, often everyday places, whilst simultaneously understanding the broader
 structures which dominate our lives. We have a long-established tradition of work on politics and
 law, and a strong commitment to the study of peace and conflict, including political violence.
 Kelly’s £290k (fEC) British Academy GCRF grant on the protection of torture survivors
 challenges human rights interventions to rethink what it means to take a victim-centred
 approach. Kelly and Sharma’s collaborative £506k (fEC) ESRC/DfID project on the
 documentation of torture and ill treatment showed the blind spots of human rights documentation
 techniques in relation to poverty. Kelly’s involvement in a DfID project on peace settlements
 examined how peace processes can revise political settlements to both make them more
 inclusive and to end violent conflict. Crowning this extensive portfolio of work on moral and
 cultural responses to violence, Kelly’s €1.5m ERC grant in collaboration with Spencer and
 Oustinova-Stjepanovic on conscience, ethics, and human rights examined the cultural and
 political significance of conviction in moments of crisis. This research culminated in the
 Conscience Matters exhibition on British conscientious objectors at the National Museum of
 Scotland’s National War Museum in Edinburgh Castle. High’s monograph Victims and Warriors:
 Violence, History and Memory in Amazonia (2015) explores how popular imagery of Amazonian
 violence has become part of Waorani social memory in oral histories, folklore performances, and
 indigenous political activism. Bompani and Cooper-Knock's collaborative £141k (fEC) ESRC


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 project explored the links between insecurity and poverty to identify measures to reduce the risk
 and impact of violence on marginalised people in South Africa. Dwyer’s monograph Soldiers in
 Revolt: Army Mutinies in Africa (2017) shows how mutineers often formulate and interpret their
 grievances against a backdrop of domestic and global politics; Dwyer is now working on her
 £304k (fEC) ESRC New Investigator Grant on the social reincorporation of peacekeepers in the
 aftermath of violence, and on a Research Council of Norway grant on security force assistance
 and state fragility in Ghana, Mali, Sierra Leone, and Uganda.
 The UoA has a sustained interest in law and development in sub-Saharan Africa. Anders’s
 £378k (fEC) British Academy DfID project on civil service reform highlighted everyday practices
 in the delivery of public services in the health and education sectors in Sierra Leone, Togo,
 Niger, Tanzania, and Malawi, and his DfID projects on law enforcement in high-level corruption
 cases contributed to improvements in law enforcement agencies’ anti-corruption strategies in
 Nigeria and Malawi. Karekwaivanane’s monograph The Struggle over State Power in Zimbabwe:
 Law and Politics Since 1950 (2017) examines how law was deployed in the constitution and
 contestation of state power and legitimacy in Zimbabwe between 1950 and 2008. Cooper-
 Knock's British Academy/Leverhulme project explored citizen engagement with magistrates’
 courts in Uganda and South Africa. Molony’s monograph Nyerere: The Early Years (2014)
 brings a new perspective on Nyerere’s uhuru movement against colonial rule and the ujamaa
 policy of African socialism that so defined his leadership of an independent Tanzania.
 iv) Religion in society: We have consolidated our position as a leading centre for the study of
 Christianity, while pursuing new questions on religious pluralism, mediation, and the study of
 non-religion in Christian, Muslim, Buddhist, and Hindu contexts. Much of this work intersects with
 our interests in politics, citizenship, and nationalism, most obviously in Haynes’s £167k (fEC)
 ESRC Future Leaders project exploring Christian nationalism in Zambia and Spencer’s
 Checkpoint, Temple, Church and Mosque (2015) on the contradictory role of religion in Sri
 Lanka as both stabilising force and source of conflict. We host the Anthropology of Christianity
 Bibliographic blog (AnthroCyBib) and the UK’s only Working Group on the Anthropology of
 Christianity. Haynes is co-founder and co-convenor of the Association of Social Anthropologists
 (ASA) new UK Network for the Anthropology of Christianity. Within the anthropology of
 Christianity, we have made important contributions to the subfields of Pentecostalism,
 Orthodoxy, and Catholicism. Bompani’s co-edited ‘Christian Citizens’ and the Moral
 Regeneration of the African State (2018) examines the complex relationship between
 Pentecostal-charismatic Christianity and socio-political transformations across sub-Saharan
 Africa. Haynes’s monograph Moving by the Spirit: Pentecostal Social Life on the Zambian
 Copperbelt (2017) explores Pentecostal Christianity in a densely populated neighbourhood at
 the heart of an extraction economy on the Zambian Copperbelt, where Pentecostal adherence
 embeds believers in relationships that help them to ‘move’ and progress in life. Boylston’s
 monograph The Stranger at the Feast: Prohibition and Mediation in an Ethiopian Orthodox
 Christian Community (2018) shows how practices of feeding and avoidance have remained
 central even as their meaning and purpose has dramatically changed from marking class
 distinctions within Orthodox society to marking differences between Orthodox Christians and
 other religions. Mayblin’s co-edited reader on The Anthropology of Catholicism (2017) is the first
 companion guide to this burgeoning subfield within the anthropology of Christianity.
 We have also pioneered the study of non-religion in anthropology, in which a key highlight is
 Copeman’s extensive portfolio of research on religion and secularism in India: his £128k British
 Academy Mid-Career Fellowship, which interrogated the social and political aspects of naming
 (often overlooked in studies of inequality or exclusion); his £259k Leverhulme Trust Research
 Project, which is applying methods from religious and media studies to understand how visual
 media has become a site of intense interaction between gurus and the anti-superstition
 movement; and his new €2m ERC Consolidator Grant, which examines how individuals and
 communities raise, in the open or in more hidden transcripts, questions over the dominant

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 religious norms in South Asia. Copeman’s attention to the use of visual media and Boylston’s
 analysis of mediation resonate with our experiments with new media in our research
 dissemination: Mayblin’s Vote of Faith film on priest-politicians in Brazil, and Haynes’s Christian
 Nation Project, an online exhibition site that examines ideas of Christian nationhood cross-
 culturally.
 v) Media cultures: Our research expertise in media, art, and heritage is grounded in
 interdisciplinary partnerships and collaborations. The Atelier: Creative Arts and the Social
 Sciences Network, co-convened by Baxstrom, operates at the intersections between the arts,
 humanities, and social sciences and is the editorial home of the Taylor and Francis
 journal Visual Culture in Britain. Baxstrom’s books Realizing the Witch: Science, Cinema, and
 the Mastery of the Invisible (2016) and Violence’s Fabled Experiment (2018) examine
 filmmakers’ explorations of witchcraft and violence, respectively. Hoek’s monograph Cut-Pieces:
 Celluloid Obscenity and Popular Cinema in Bangladesh (2013) won the 2016 Bernard S. Cohn
 book prize. Hoek’s £218k (fEC) ESRC project on the political uses of modernist art among
 Muslim intellectuals in Bangladesh since 1952 asked how art film became a site for political
 contestation in Bangladesh. Hoek co-convenes Chitra: Connecting Histories of Indian and
 Transregional Art, a research network which hosted a series of events in 2019 in collaboration
 with major art institutions including National Galleries Scotland Jeffery’s extensive portfolio of
 work on creative engagement with forced displacement in the Maghreb involved innovative co-
 creation with artists. Jeffery‘s projects include a £303k (fEC) GCRF Forced Displacement project
 on arts for advocacy in Morocco, which co-created events at refugee/migrant arts festivals
 (Refugee Festival Scotland in Glasgow and Migrant’Scène in Rabat), a touring and online
 exhibition, and an interactive toolkit on creative arts, migration and advocacy; a £100k (fEC)
 GCRF KEI grant, which entailed artistic residencies and training workshops for migrant and
 otherwise marginal artists who collaboratively produced a touring and online exhibition and a
 manifesto for artists’ rights; and her work as Co-Director of a new GCRF Network Plus on
 displacement and rights in the Maghreb.
 The Bones Collective (Fibiger, Harper, Harries) is concerned with the affective presence and
 emotive materiality in the exhibiting of human bones; Fibiger and Harries collaboratively
 explored collections of human skulls housed in museums and other institutions across Europe
 (£9k) as part of an EU Horizon 2020 project on transmitting contentious cultural heritages via the
 arts. Other work on cultural heritage includes Course’s research on sustainability, culture, and
 language in Hebridean fishing, High’s Waorani endangered language documentation project,
 and Jeffery’s £101k (fEC) AHRC project on the intergenerational transmission of Chagossian
 cultural heritage. Wright’s monograph Who’s Reporting Africa Now? Non-Governmental
 Organizations, Journalists, and Multimedia (2018), which was nominated for the International
 Studies Association best International Communications book award, illuminates the complex
 moral and political economies underpinning such journalistic reporting on Africa. Molony and
 Dwyer’s collaborative £494k (fEC) ESRC/DfID project explored the role of social media in
 documenting and driving (in)security in East and West Africa.
 vi) Relatedness and relationships: We have sustained longstanding expertise in the
 anthropology of kinship, gender, and sexualities. With Carsten and Weston at the centre of new
 theoretical and empirical directions in the anthropology of kinship, the UoA has nurtured future
 generations of scholars with expertise in kinship spanning regional and contextual differences,
 and emphasising its biological, intimate, and material expressions. The dedication to studying
 the making and breaking of close bonds and individual biographies rather than kinship as an
 ideal system continues to be a hallmark of our research. Our contribution to the anthropology of
 kinship is exemplified by Carsten’s €2.3m ERC Advanced Grant in collaboration with Chiu,
 Magee, Papadaki, and Reece on A Global Anthropology of Transforming Marriage, culminating
 in 2019 in an Edinburgh Central Library exhibition An Anthropology of Weddings: 5 Places, 50
 Objects and a conference on Marriage in Past, Present, and Future Tense: Biography, Intimacy,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and Transformation. Magee’s monograph Material Culture and Kinship in Poland: An
 Ethnography of Fur and Society (2019) argues that 'generation' and 'inheritance' are shown to
 be uniquely powerful idioms with which to discuss power and social change in Poland. Two
 books examine relations and relatedness in contexts of conflict and migration. Segal’s No Place
 for Grief: Martyrs, Prisoners, and Mourning in Contemporary Palestine (2016) explores kinship at
 the boundary between endurance and exhaustion and gendered forms of loss amongst the
 families of Palestinian political prisoners in a context of prolonged armed conflict. Sharma’s
 Crossing the Border to India: Youth, Migration, and Masculinities in Nepal (2018) explores how
 the changing political economy of rural Nepal informs the desire and agency of young male
 migrants who seek work in cities.
 Blood is the subject of two very recent books. Carsten's Blood Work: Life and Laboratories in
 Penang (2019), traces the multiple meanings of blood as it moves from donors to labs, hospitals,
 and patients in Penang, Malaysia. Copeman’s co-authored Hematologies: The Political Life of
 Blood in India (2019) examines how the giving and receiving of blood has shaped social and
 political life and traces how the substance congeals political ideologies, biomedical rationalities,
 and activist practices. Work on blood will be sustained beyond this REF cycle through Weston’s
 £606k (fEC) British Academy Global Professorship exploring how early modern European
 scientific inquiries into blood circulation, generation, and gestation remain deeply embedded in
 contemporary understandings of prosperity, finance, and money.
 A series of recently announced UKRI GCRF Collective Programme grants that extend well into
 the next REF cycle exemplify our commitment to research collaboration and mentorship within
 and beyond the UoA and to the overlaps between two or more of our six research themes.
 Jeffery, Lowe and Falisse have together been awarded a new £3m (fEC) GCRF Development-
 Based Approaches to Protracted Displacement project on improving healthcare at the
 intersection of gender and protracted displacement amongst Congolese and Somali internally
 displaced people and refugees. Building on his extensive portfolio of research on energy,
 Cross’s new £1.8m (fEC) GCRF Rethinking the Off-Grid City project offers a comparative study
 of cool infrastructures in the cities of Hyderabad, Jakarta, Karachi, and Yaoundé. Building on his
 £294k (fEC) British Academy GCRF Cities and Infrastructure project, Spencer’s new £900k
 (fEC) GCRF Rethinking the Off-Grid City project will facilitate south-south dialogue and
 collaboration in order to provide solutions to the problems poor communities encounter in
 accessing key infrastructural services in India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Kelly’s new £246k (fEC)
 GCRF Network Plus Exploratory Award will overcome humanitarian and human rights silos (e.g.
 ‘civil war’ versus ‘natural disaster’) to understand ‘protection’ from the perspective of frontline
 protection practitioners in Sri Lanka. Bompani is Co-Convenor of a new AHRC Sexuality and
 Religion Network seeking to enhance the role of religion in LGBTQI+ equality and inclusion in
 East Africa. Karekwaivanane is Co-Investigator on a new GCRF African Digital Rights Network
 exploring how digital technologies can re-open civic space and enable citizens to exercise their
 (digital) rights. Falisse is UoE lead on a MasterCard Foundation action research project aiming
 to improve refugee access to tertiary education. Molony and Falisse are embarking on a new
 GCRF EPSRC project on local perceptions and media representations of election observation in
 Africa (£729k fEC) and Molony and Donovan are collaborating on a new EPSRC project on
 politics and markets in digital East Africa (£151k fEC).
 Future research strategy
 In line with the emergent synergies outlined above between our research themes i) health and
 wellbeing and ii) infrastructure and innovation, which underpin our response to COVID-19, our
 future research strategy straddles the intersections between our established research themes.
 We will support multi-species ethnography and more-than-human research, particularly as it
 relates to human health and wellbeing: Marsland on bees and planetary health; Baxstrom,
 Harries, Huang, and Marsland on human/cat relations; Doherty on marabou storks in


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 wastelands; Haines on water quality and toxicity. Marsland is trailblazing veterinary anthropology
 as a new subfield of medical anthropology and is at the heart of UoE’s exciting new One Health
 collaboration with partners in China. Falisse and Huang have secured part-time secondments to
 UoE’s flagship Edinburgh Futures Institute (EFI); we will contribute to EFI via our work on digital
 data frontiers (Anwar, Cross, Donovan, Dwyer, Falisse, Hackl, Hoek, Huang, Karekwaivanane,
 Molony). We will contribute to UoE’s Centre for Data, Culture, and Society, in which the newly
 launched Media and Communications cluster is led by Wright and includes Boylston, Dwyer,
 Falisse, Hoek, Karekwaivanane, and Molony. The Futureproofing Anthropology collective
 (Cross, Diz, Doherty, Hackl, Haines, Huang, Kappeler, Sharma, and Wagner), launched in 2019,
 will continue to bring together scholars working on the intersections between sustainability and
 migration, environment, law, and entrepreneurship. We are building a research collective around
 the future of work, production, and consumption (Anwar, Bowman, Dieng, Donovan, Gray,
 Hackl, Oppong). We will also support the development of subthemes within our established
 research themes such as mental health (Cooper, Ecks, Edmonds, Harper, Segal), and we will
 support newly emergent themes such as design (Boylston and Cross) and gaming and addiction
 as it spans infrastructure, media, and medical anthropology (Boylston).
 Impact strategy
 We foster and promote a culture of engagement beyond the academy. Our research often
 challenges established norms, modes of thought, and practices, and we have continuously
 sought to engage and consult widely. We feed our research findings into public, institutional, and
 policy debates. Our KEI engagements span the entire range of research activity in the
 submission, most markedly in relation to international development, sustainability, law, science
 and technology, and health. Through these activities we seek to influence policy makers at
 international and national levels, inform professional practice, and engage with diverse and
 enduring audiences. Over two-thirds of our media coverage and media contributions are
 international in scope, demonstrating the extent of our geographical reach well beyond the UK.
 We have a strong record of co-developing research projects with practitioners and local
 communities as part of our commitment to lasting impact through sustained long-term
 engagement and dialogue with partnerships in which research and impact feed into one another.
 An outstanding example of this is Kelly, Segal, and Sharma’s longstanding research
 collaborations with DIGNITY, the Danish Institute Against Torture, which is a flagship actor in the
 anti-torture movement: amongst many other activities, Segal’s research insights on how a
 proactive workplace culture can deal constructively with high levels of secondary trauma across
 its workforce were fed back into DIGNITY, which then took action to improve its practices,
 helping both employees and the torture victims they support. We have also collaborated in
 various ways with Social Science Baha (SSB), an independent, non-profit organisation that
 promotes and enhances social science in Nepal: SSB collaborated on Kelly and Harper’s
 ESRC/DfID grants and in the Political Settlements Research Programme (based in Law); Jeffery
 worked with SSB to develop Nepal’s social science ethics review framework, and Sharma
 served on SSB’s ethics review committee; we also supported SSB’s work in the aftermath of the
 earthquake in Nepal in 2015. Our approach to KEI is rooted in the rich understanding of specific
 cultural, political, and social contexts around the world, which are then placed in comparative
 perspective. Spiegel’s multi-sited research has enhanced the understanding of links between
 local livelihood concerns in mining areas, land use management, and evolving resource
 governance models, providing new empirical data and conceptual analysis that have informed
 the regulation of the artisanal and small-scale gold mining in Indonesia, Mozambique, and
 Zimbabwe. Mayblin’s longstanding research expertise in religion, ritual, and relatedness
 underpinned her work with Edinburgh City Council on how to personalise funeral services for
 deceased people who have no known next of kin.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our five Impact Case Studies draw on engagements and relationships already established and
 identified in REF2014. Together, they showcase an approach to KEI that sees impact on
 international development policy and practice delivered by combining empirical research with
 sustained stakeholder engagement. Anders’s research on the understanding, application, and
 reform of governance informed anti-corruption interventions in Nigeria and Malawi. Kelly and
 Sharma’s research on current international principles, protocols, and techniques for the
 documentation of torture and ill-treatment persuaded international organisations and NGOs to
 make their work more relevant in the context of poor people in low-income countries. Jeffery and
 Rotter show how long-term research grounded in social anthropology can lead to international
 recognition for cultural forms and communities such as the inscription of Chagossian music on
 UNESCO’s List of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Need of Urgent Safeguarding. Drawing on his
 research on the significance of Gaelic language culture for Scottish fisheries policy, Course co-
 directed a film Muir ar n-athraichean (Our Fathers’ Sea) which won Dùthchais as Fheàrr (Best
 Countryside film) in MG ALBA’s Gaelic short film competition FilmG and co-produced a
 BBC/Creative Scotland documentary Iorram (Boat Song) scheduled for nationwide broadcast on
 BBC Alba on 1 January 2021. Finally, Cross’s research on the design of off-grid energy
 technologies in Africa and South Asia convinced companies, charities, and trade organisations
 to address emerging challenges around electronic and electrical waste.
 The breadth and depth of our efforts to make our research widely accessible are demonstrated
 by complementary KEI activities supported by internal funding. An exemplary internally funded
 KEI project is Marsland’s outreach work through her Beelines school project pack and the Large
 Honeybee Collider at the 2017 Edinburgh International Science Festival, which recorded >1,500
 attendees. Kelly worked to transform public understandings of conscience via teacher training on
 conscientious objectors in Scotland and the Conscience Matters exhibition on conscientious
 objectors in the Second World War at the National Museum of Scotland (NMS) National War
 Museum at Edinburgh Castle (viewed by c700,000 visitors); alongside colleagues in History he
 is now collaborating with NMS and Commonwealth War Graves on a Royal Society of Edinburgh
 network focusing on Scotland’s experiences of the Second World War and raising funds for a
 public memorial. We will seek to further embed this culture of engagement beyond this REF
 cycle by extending our KEI support to our PGR community, making KEI a more visible part of
 our shared intellectual identity, identifying ways of focusing our attention on the Edinburgh
 region, and working to better connect beneficiaries and users to the institution.
 Research Ethics strategy
 Good ethical practice is a cornerstone of our research activities, and a mark of our duty of care
 to our research participants, collaborators, colleagues, and data. Our School of Social and
 Political Science’s Research Office has a dedicated Deputy Director for Research Ethics
 supported by Subject Area Research Ethics Leads. We have led the development and
 dissemination of best practice beyond the UoA – both within our School and across the
 University – particularly in developing the School’s compulsory online self-assessment tool and
 promoting best practice in international research collaborations. We initiated a School-level Safe
 and Responsible Research working group, co-authored a briefing paper, and developed pre-
 departure training workshops, a PGR peer buddying system, and online resources. We run a bi-
 monthly post-fieldwork group for ECRs to reflect on ethical conundrums with a view to
 addressing them in our writing. Our methods training for our research students at all levels
 includes sessions on research ethics and data management. Jeffery initiated the development of
 research ethics training materials for researchers at all levels of the University. We initiated a
 University-level series of GCRF workshops on research for global and local development, which
 fed into an online toolkit for building ethical, sustainable, international partnerships in LMICs.
 Cross led the development of UoE’s Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF) guidelines for
 ethical engagement with the private sector.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Open Research strategy
 Open Research is at the forefront of our mission to build research communities within and
 beyond the institution, engage EDI at the level of research dissemination and uptake, and
 promote KEI that has real impact on the world. Jeffery served on UoE’s Open Research working
 group to develop our Open Research strategy, which encourages the effective sharing of
 research data as appropriate to the discipline. In much of our work, ethical constraints limit the
 kinds of data that can be made openly available; we endorse the UK Data Service’s principle
 ‘open where possible – closed where necessary’, and we have experimented with new modes of
 publication and dissemination. Jeffery’s UKDA dataset – comprising transcripts of public debates
 and community consultations – was UK Data Service ReShare’s top data creator with most
 downloaded data in 2017–18, with c1,200 data downloads to date. The ERC Conscience team
 worked with partners in Sri Lanka and the USA to curate an OA Archive of Dissent to be hosted
 by Princeton as part of the South Asia Open Archive initiative (its summer 2020 launch was
 delayed by the pandemic). The School Research Office has a staff member dedicated to
 supporting best practice in Open Research; as a result, the School’s Open Access compliance
 rate is 97.2%, and 100% of the UoA’s submitted Outputs comply with the Open Access criteria.
 During this REF period we hosted the OA peer-reviewed journal The South Asianist, published
 via UoE’s Open Journal System, which now also publishes EdCMA’s Medicine Anthropology
 Theory as the only medical anthropology journal charging neither APCs to authors nor
 subscription fees to libraries.


 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our ambitious plan for expansion via recruitment of outstanding postdoctoral researchers
 (outlined in REF2014) has continued apace enabled by our success with external funding bids
 and the flourishing of our PG programmes. Our REF2021 submission comprises 65 staff
 (63.5fte), a substantial increase of >84%fte since our already inclusive REF2014 submission of
 37 staff (34.45fte), including for instance 16 additional open-ended Lecturer appointments due to
 increased demand for teaching or backfilling for staff on externally funded research grants. We
 have sought to recruit and retain the most promising postdoctoral researchers by providing
 inspiring career development opportunities with an emphasis on publication, lateral collaboration
 around fieldwork, ethics, and writing, and mentoring for future employability. Our intellectually
 stimulating and collaboratively exciting hub enables ECRs to take the next steps as future
 research leaders as leading institutions in the UK and internationally. We run annual ECR
 sessions on postdoctoral funding, academic publishing, and employability. We invite ECRs to
 present their work during our weekly seminar series, our biannual Afternoon of Ideas incubation
 hubs for new projects, and monthly academic writing seminars which support ECRs to transform
 their thesis chapters into peer-reviewed publications. We offer new staff a ‘buddy’ and all staff a
 mentor who is not their line manager. Our Workload Allocation Model allocates 50% additional
 time to prepare new teaching, and we have generous sabbatical leave entitlement of one
 semester after five. Our Research Office runs annual ECR workshops, provides early feedback
 on initial one-page drafts for early-career schemes, and administers a Researcher Development
 Fund (£1,800pa, or £2,000 for ECRs) for external training and academic dissemination. Several
 of our ECRs have served on the Committee for Research Staff, which organises research and
 career development workshops for ECRs on topics such as responding to reviewers and held its
 first residential writing retreat in 2019.
 During this REF period we hosted 17 prestigious ECR Fellowships (ten externally and seven
 internally funded): eight ESRC (Crawley, Dwyer, Hackl, Hackl, Haynes, Hoek, Jerstad, Spiegel),
 one Wellcome (Kalinga), one Marie Curie (Zabiliute), five UoE 5-year tenure-track Chancellor’s


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Fellows (Haynes, Hussain, Marks, Street, Wright), and two School one-year Chrystal Macmillan
 Fellows (Hussain, Oustinova-Stjepanovic). Our recruitment and retention strategies have been
 highly successful: during this REF period, 11 formerly fixed-term Research and/or Teaching
 Fellows (Cruz, Donovan, Dwyer, Falisse, Hackl, Haynes, Hussain, Lowe, Magee, Street, and
 Wright) secured open-ended Lectureships or Senior Lectureships here. Our Research
 Convenors support research development for all staff via internal actions such as: one-to-one
 research mentoring and annual appraisals providing targeted discussion and advice on training
 needs and research plans in the context of longer term trajectories, themed reading groups,
 monthly academic writing seminars, writing retreats, grant-writing workshops, mock pitch-to-
 peers sessions, peer review of draft grant applications and academic publications, and research
 away days on themes such as public engagement. UoA colleagues gradually take on research
 leadership and management roles that contribute to academic progression. Anders, Bowman,
 Copeman, Hackl, Jeffery, and Spiegel undertook advanced research leadership and
 management CPD training courses. 17 of our 21 promotions were to Senior Lecturer/Reader
 grade, alongside four to Professor. The success of our career progression support is evidenced
 by the higher proportion of staff at Senior Lecturer/Reader grade, who comprise 28% of
 Category A staff returned in REF2021 (up from 19% in REF2014).
 Research students
 Focused recruitment efforts are reflected in substantial increases in PhD student numbers on
 our three doctoral programmes in Social Anthropology, African Studies, and International
 Development. We have increased average annual PhD completions by c46% to 13.7pa (up from
 9.4pa in REF2014), and our annual PhD completion numbers will continue to rise as our newer
 colleagues begin to see their doctoral students through to PhD submission. At least ninety of our
 doctoral students have held PhD scholarships during this REF period. National UK scholarships
 included: 29 ESRC, three Leverhulme, and three Wellcome. Internal UoE scholarships included:
 26 Graduate School, five College, five Principal’s Career Development, five part-time Alice
 Brown (designed to widen participation), four Chrystal Macmillan, and three Special Awards.
 International students won scholarships from their national funding bodies in Austria, Canada,
 Finland, Mexico, Spain, Pakistan, and USA. As part of our commitment to developing the next
 generation of researchers, we increasingly design doctoral projects that are aligned to and
 funded within our larger research projects: Cross’s Not Just Energy Futures research group
 hosts ten PhD scholarships funded by the Government of Mexico, SolarAid, ESRC, and
 Leverhulme Perfect Storm; Anders’s EU Horizon 2020 joint doctoral programme on
 Anthropology of Human Security in Africa (ANTHUSIA) and Smith’s ESRC interdisciplinary
 cohort grant each host three PhD scholarships. In 2020, UoE and the University of Leiden
 launched four fully funded four-year jointly supervised African Studies PhD scholarships with
 yearlong exchanges to the secondary institution.
 We are heavily involved in national-level collaborative arrangements for PGR training and
 mentorship. Scotland’s ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership is hosted at UoE via the
 ESRC/Scottish Funding Council funded Scottish Graduate School of Social Science, which
 combines the expertise of sixteen universities across Scotland into the UK’s largest facilitator of
 funding, training, and support for doctoral students in social science. Our PGR programmes – in
 Social Anthropology, Medical Anthropology, African Studies, and International Development –
 combine internal disciplinary pre- and weekly post-fieldwork guided reading and writing-up
 seminars with external interdisciplinary social science research methods training. PGRs actively
 participate in our two weekly seminar series. Dedicated Postgraduate Advisors support PGRs,
 and each student has two supervisors. First-year doctoral students must prepare a research
 proposal to be examined by two additional readers (i.e. not their supervisors) before starting
 data collection. We initiated a School-level working group and co-authored a briefing paper on
 safety and wellbeing in fieldwork. Starting in autumn 2020, our newly established Research
 Training Centre offers PGRs a selection of five-credit methods workshops from which to build up

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 their own individualised 20-credit course. Our longstanding collaboration with social
 anthropologists at four universities in Scotland via the Scottish Training in Anthropological
 Research (STAR) consortium runs an annual Anthropology Scotland day (in collaboration with
 the National Museum of Scotland) and bespoke residential training weeks that invite
 internationally recognised scholars alongside STAR colleagues to support PGR students with
 fieldwork preparation, writing up, and employability skills training.
 Our PhD students run a Mentoring Scheme which trains senior PGR mentors to offer peer-led
 guidance and support for junior PGRs, facilitating interaction and integration across our student
 communities. Students of Medical Anthropology is an exceptionally active postgraduate group
 organising events including: monthly book clubs; annual master's showcases and PhD Work in
 Progress seminars; a symposium on care; a workshop on health, medicine, and wellbeing; and a
 master class with Jeremy Greene from John Hopkins. Our UG students run Re:Think: A Journal
 of Creative Ethnography for UG research; our PGR students run The Unfamiliar: An
 Anthropological Journal and the CAS from the Edge blog; our PGR students also contribute to
 the School’s blog It Ain’t Necessarily So. In May 2020, Spencer supported our research students
 to contribute blogposts to the American Ethnologist collection co-edited by Veena Das and
 Naveeda Khan on COVID-19 and Student-Focused Concerns: Threats and Possibilities.
 The effectiveness of our PGR training is evident in the notable successes achieved by former
 PhD students who have: published books based on their doctoral research (e.g. Crowther,
 Dwyer, González Gálvez, Heneise, Hughes, Khanna, Magee, Molony, Niang, Schubert, Sharma,
 Sirisena); won prizes (e.g. Dodworth won the inaugural BISA African Affairs Postgraduate Paper
 Prize 2015; Eades won the Council on Anthropology and Reproduction 2019 Graduate Paper
 Award; Poletti won the Association of Nepal and Himalayan Studies Dor Bahadur Bista Prize for
 best paper and was awarded second prize in the Britain Nepal Academic Council Dissertation
 Award; Wagner won the Khayrallah Prize for Best Graduate Student Paper and CBRL
 Contemporary Levant's Best Paper Award); won fellowships here (e.g. Crawley, Cunningham,
 Hackl, Jerstad won GCRF/ESRC PDFs, and Hackl won an ESRC NIG) or elsewhere (e.g.
 Bonelli won an ERC Starting Grant at Amsterdam, Martin won a GCRF PDF at Sheffield, Nzo
 won a PDF at Wits, Schubert won a Leverhulme ECF at Brunel); and secured lectureships here
 (Cruz, Dwyer, Hackl, Lowe, Magee, Wagner) or elsewhere (e.g. Bachelet, Bonelli, Bradley,
 Crawley, de Silva, González Gálvez, Guell, Heneise, Heslop, Iazzolino, Kasselstrand, Kilambo,
 Lajtai, Malara, Malcolm, Mora, Mujere, Niang, Skaten, Reece, Richards).
 Equality and Diversity
 In 2015, our gender roundtable on the so-called ‘leaky pipeline’ in female academic trajectories
 proposed actions including: targeting female applicants, gender-aware recruitment, buddying for
 new staff and mentoring for all staff, visible role models, and Career Development Fellowships.
 As a result of gender-balanced recruitment procedures, we have successfully increased the
 proportion of women in this submission to 48% (up from 38% in REF2014). We have addressed
 historic underrepresentation of women at senior levels, with successes including women in
 senior research leadership positions within and beyond the UoA and the proportional
 representation by gender in promotions from Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow to Senior
 Lecturer/Reader (9:8 male:female in this REF cycle). Beyond REF2021, we aspire to the
 proportional representation of women in promotions to Professor (3:1 male:female in this REF
 cycle) to improve the gender balance at senior levels.
 The high ratio of open-ended (73.8%) to fixed-term (26.2%) contracts in this submission reflects
 our commitment to management of short-term research funding alongside long-term succession
 planning. In this submission, 44.6% are UK nationals, just over a fifth (21.5%) are EU27/EEA
 nationals, and a third (33.8%) are nationals of Canada, China, Ghana, India, Nepal, Nigeria,
 Pakistan, Philippines, Senegal, Turkey, USA, or Zimbabwe. Self-declarations of ethnicity at the
 time of joining the institution indicate that almost two-thirds (64.6%) self-identify as white and

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 almost a quarter (24.6%) as BME; the remaining 10.8% did not disclose ethnic identity. Due to
 lower rates of disclosure, we do not have comprehensive data on other protected characteristics
 such as disability, sexuality, or religion. Our Decolonising Working Group instituted curriculum
 review, established a White Supremacy and Me reading group, and reviewed hiring practices to
 tackle the structural barriers to diversifying recruitment. Our peer-reviewed journals – Medicine
 Anthropology Theory and Critical African Studies – explicitly seek to support and advance the
 decolonisation of knowledge and to champion representation and inclusion via international
 advisory boards incorporating globally underrepresented expertise and by mentoring
 submissions by junior scholars and non-native English authors. We are involved in three new
 University-level cross-disciplinary hubs for research and teaching: GenderEd (launched in 2017),
 UncoverEd (launched in 2018–19), and RaceEd (launched in 2020). Our School’s gender-
 focused People+ Initiative (largely premised on Athena Swan) was replaced in 2020 with a new
 EDI Committee (convened by Marsland) which has a broader focus on protected characteristics
 and other relevant equality issues such as class. In August 2020 UoE launched a new Race
 Equality and Anti-Racist Action Plan that aims to support efforts to decolonise the curriculum,
 improve diversity and representation of BAME staff and students, and address attainment gaps
 of BAME students. Beyond this REF cycle we aim to consolidate our efforts within the UoA to
 address gender and ethnicity and to maintain momentum in our efforts to address other areas of
 EDI such as LGBTQI+ and Widening Participation of underrepresented groups.
 In line with the UoE REF2021 Code of Practice, we have adopted an inclusive approach to
 defining ‘independent researcher’ and have embraced the decision to return 100% of eligible
 academic staff, which builds on our already inclusive REF2014 submission of 95% of eligible
 staff. We undertook training in Unconscious Bias and in Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
 and we adopted a rigorous, fair, and transparent approach to selecting Outputs, fully accounting
 for staff special circumstances which have affected their research activity. An independent EDI
 group reviewed the distribution of Outputs across staff by gender and career stage (noting that
 we were unable to access accurate data on other protected characteristics due to lower rates of
 disclosure). 46% of our submitted Outputs are attributed to female staff (reflecting our increased
 proportion of female staff from 38% to 48%) and 49% by junior Researchers and Lecturers (who
 comprise 58% of Category A staff). Three-fifths of Category A staff contributed two or more
 Outputs. This is a testament to how our inclusive approach to research support has enabled staff
 to flourish across gender and career stages. We are concerned by the likely longer-term effects
 of the COVID-19 pandemic for colleagues with caring responsibilities and/or chronic COVID-19
 symptoms; our virtual Afternoon of Ideas aims to support new research initiatives and our new
 Research Dreams reading and writing groups aim to sustain research in a context of constraints
 on fieldwork and resources (particularly, although not exclusively, for ECRs).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Our capacity to secure income for our research and KEI activities is underpinned by institutional
 support. Our School’s Research Office has been expanded from 6.8fte in REF2014 to 17.95fte
 in REF2021. Led by a Director of Research – previously Sharma, now Kelly – it runs research
 surgeries, prepares costings, supports ethical review, convenes a PI network, and supports
 researchers via Research Convenors who cascade targeted information on funding opportunities
 and broker peer review by at least two academics. School support is complemented by UoE-
 level support via Edinburgh Research Office, which hosts funder visits, runs briefing events,
 circulates funding opportunities, curates a dossier of successful applications, and prepares
 contracts and agreements. Supported by these Research Offices, our success rate in grant
 applications is >35%. We secured >£15m in new external research grants (averaging £2.15m
 pa, up c244% from £882k pa in REF2014). Major highlights include: four new ERC grants
 totalling >€7.2m; ODA/GCRF grants totalling >£10m (fEC); and 13 prestigious competitive


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 research fellowships totalling >£2.6m. These successes underpin our substantial expansion
 within this REF cycle.
 ERC: Our four new ERC grants span four of our six research themes. Carsten’s €2.3m
 Advanced Grant (with Chiu, Magee, Papadaki, and Reece) on A Global Anthropology of
 Transforming Marriage (AGATM) underpins our contribution to the anthropology of relations and
 relatedness. Kelly’s €1.5m ERC Consolidator Grant (with Oustinova-Stjepanovic and Spencer)
 on A Comparative Anthropology of Conscience, Ethics and Human Rights (AnCon) underpins
 our expansion in politics and law. Copeman’s €2m ERC Consolidator Grant on Religion and Its
 Others in South Asia and the World: Communities, Debates, Freedoms (ROSA) extends our
 capacity in religion and society. Street’s €1.5m ERC Starting Grant (with Taylor) on Investigating
 the Design and Use of Diagnostic Devices in Global Health (DiaDev) exemplifies our expertise in
 health and wellbeing. In addition, this REF period saw the bulk of activities on two health and
 wellbeing ERC grants totalling >€3m which were awarded towards the end of the previous REF
 period: Smith’s €1.5m ERC Advanced Grant (with Taylor) on Investigating Networks of Zoonosis
 Innovation (INZI) and Edmonds’s €1.5m ERC Starting Grant on Combat Veterans’ Reintegration
 and Mental health, An Anthropological Approach (COMBATTRAUMA). Additional European
 grant income came from our collaborations on EU grants led outwith the UoA: Muñoz on the
 ERC AFRIGOS project on African Governance and Space: Transport Corridors, Border Towns
 and Port Cities in Transition (€890k), Jeffery on the ERC ROADS project on Roads and the
 Politics of Thought: Ethnographic Approaches to Infrastructure Development in South Asia
 (€285k), and Harries and Fibiger on the Horizon 2020 TRACES project on Transmitting
 Contentious Cultural Heritages with the Arts: From Intervention to Co-Production (€9k).
 ODA/GCRF: We have firmly established our international reputation in development studies,
 including an exciting and expanding portfolio of work funded under UKRI’s Global Challenges
 Research Fund (GCRF). Highlights include: Anders’s £378k (fEC) British Academy DfID project
 on Accountability through Practical Norms: Civil Service Reform in Africa from Below and his
 DfID project (£319k fEC) on law enforcement in high-level corruption cases; Bompani and
 Cooper-Knock’s £141k (fEC) ESRC project on Security at the Margins: Spaces and Strategies
 for Negotiating Security in Urban South Africa; Bowman and Gray’s £650k (fEC) GCRF Inclusive
 Societies project on Innovation and Inclusive Industrialisation in Agro-Processing: A
 Comparative Study of South Africa and Tanzania; Cross‘s £303k (fEC) GCRF Forced
 Displacement project on Energy and Forced Displacement: A Qualitative Approach to Light,
 Heat and Power in Refugee Camps; Harper and Sharma’s £270k (fEC) ESRC/DfID project on
 New Norms and Forms of Development: Brokerage in Maternal and Child Health Service
 Development and Delivery in Nepal and Malawi; Jeffery’s £303k (fEC) GCRF Forced
 Displacement project on Arts for Advocacy: Creative Engagement with Displacement in Morocco
 and her £100k (fEC) GCRF follow-on funding for Mobilising Access to Rights for Artists in
 Morocco; Kelly’s £290k (fEC) British Academy GCRF grant Protecting Survivors of Torture; Kelly
 and Sharma’s £506k (fEC) ESRC/DfID Comparative Analysis of the Documentation of Torture
 and Ill-Treatment in Low-Income Countries; Molony and Dwyer‘s £494k (fEC) ESRC project
 SMS Africa: Social Media and Security in Africa; Sharma’s £372k (fEC) ESRC/ICSSR project on
 Exploring Low-income Migrant Workers' Access to Basic Services and Protection in the context
 of India's Urban Transformation; Spencer’s £294k (fEC) British Academy GCRF Cities and
 Infrastructure project on Rebuilding Kinship and Care after Dislocation in Urban South Asia:
 Colombo and Lahore Compared. Major new GCRF grants awarded in 2020 will extend well into
 the next REF cycle. Jeffery, Lowe and Falisse have been awarded a £3m (fEC) GCRF
 Development-Based Approaches to Protracted Displacement grant on improving healthcare at
 the intersection of gender and protracted displacement amongst Congolese and Somali
 internally displaced people and refugees. Jeffery is also Co-Director of a GCRF Network Plus on
 Maghreb Action on Displacement and Rights (£122k fEC to UoE). We secured two new GCRF
 Rethinking the Off-Grid City grants: Cross has been awarded a £1.8m (fEC) grant on Cool


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructures: Life with Heat in the Off Grid City; Spencer has been awarded a £900k (fEC)
 grant on Navigating the grid in the "world-class city": poverty, gender, and access to services in
 India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Kelly has been awarded £246k (fEC) for a GCRF Network Plus
 Exploratory Award on Frontline Protection in Sri Lanka. Falisse is UoE lead on a $395k
 MasterCard Foundation action research project on Creating Refugee Access to Tertiary
 Education through Blended Learning. Molony and Donovan have secured a new £151k (fEC)
 GCRF/EPSRC Digital Innovation for Development in Africa grant on Developing Data? Politics
 and Markets in Digital East Africa and Beyond.
 Research Fellowships: Staff have been awarded 13 prestigious competitive research fellowships
 totalling >£2.6m: Cooper-Knock's £67k (fEC) Newton Advanced Fellowship (mentoring Ndlovu)
 on Moving Worlds; Copeman’s £128k (fEC) British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship for Names
 and (dis)identity: A New Approach to Indian Secularism; Crawley’s £113k (fEC) ESRC
 Postdoctoral Fellowship for Running at Full Capacity: Shifting the Narrative on Ethiopian
 Running and Maximising its Effects on Development; Dwyer’s £304k (fEC) ESRC New
 Investigator Grant for Return from Peacekeeping: Mission Effects on Veterans, States, and
 Communities; Hackl’s £110k (fEC) ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship for To Work and Back:
 Exploring Palestinian Labour Mobility and its Development Effects on the West Bank and his
 £303k (fEC) ESRC New Investigator Grant on Digital Livelihoods? The Online Gig Economy and
 the Future of Decent Refugee Work in Cities; Haynes’s £167k (fEC) ESRC Future Research
 Leaders fellowship on Religious Politics and Political Religion: Christian Nationalism in
 Contemporary Zambia; Hoek’s £218k (fEC) ESRC Future Research Leaders fellowship on the
 Ends of Modernism: Understanding the Political Uses of Modernist Art among Muslim
 Intellectuals in Bangladesh since 1952; Jerstad’s £110k (fEC) ESRC Postdoctoral Research
 Fellowship on Weather Matters: Alleviating the Consequences of Climate Change for Housing
 and Mobility in the Himalayas; Kalinga’s £213k Wellcome Medical Humanities Postdoctoral
 Fellowship on how literary aesthetics and storytelling inform concepts of health and wellbeing in
 Malawi; Spiegel’s £345k (fEC) ESRC Future Research Leaders fellowship on Reconfiguring
 Livelihoods, Re-Imagining Spaces of Transboundary Resource Management: A Study of Mining
 and Agency along the Zimbabwe-Mozambique Border; Weston’s £606k British Academy Global
 Professorship; Zabiliute’s €184k Marie Curie Postdoctoral Fellowship (with Harper) on Living
 with Others, Living with Diabetes: Relational Care among Diabetes Patients in Delhi, India.
 COVID-19: In mid 2020, Scottish Funding Council (SFC) GCRF COVID-19 rapid research grants
 (starting during but extending beyond this REF period) were awarded to Cooper-Knock (£16k for
 a project on lockdown diaries in Cape Town), Cross (£4k for a project on the impact of COVID-
 19 on energy access in sub Saharan Africa), Falisse (£60k to develop an interactive dataset of
 COVID-19 governance in Africa), and Street (£10k to examine whether technology-focused
 responses to the Ebola epidemic prepared Sierra Leone’s health system for COVID-19). Street
 was also awarded £30k from NHS Scotland’s Chief Scientist Office for a project on building trust
 in a global pandemic: public perceptions, expectations, and experiences of COVID-19 testing in
 Lothian, Scotland). Cross was awarded an AHRC GCRF Urgency Grant (£131k fEC for a project
 on Repair and Repurposing for Pandemic Resilience in Humanitarian Settings).
 We have secured financial support from internal UoE grants (recently including >£75k per year
 in the School’s Researcher Development Fund and Strategic Research Support Fund), many of
 which have underpinned larger funding applications. Following an internally funded pilot project
 mapping oral story telling traditions and health narratives in Malawi and workshop on health
 humanities in African and indigenous contexts, Kalinga applied successfully for her Wellcome
 medical humanities grant on how literary aesthetics and storytelling inform concepts of health
 and wellbeing in Malawi. Following an internally funded pilot project on mobile phone use,
 Molony and Dwyer applied successfully for their ESRC grant on social media and security in
 Africa. Supported by a dedicated Impact Fellow who advised us on KEI funding, peer reviewed
 KEI sections of grant applications, and developed a systematic procedure for early identification

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and mapping of impact potential, we have also won >£300k in UoE-administered KEI grants.
 Exciting internally funded KEI projects include: Falisse’s Search for Common Ground’s
 ‘Tomorrow is Another Day’ project in DRC; Hoek connecting academic and museum
 anthropology in Edinburgh; Marsland’s Beelines school project pack and Large Honeybee
 Collider at the 2017 Edinburgh International Science Festival; Street and Cross’s ethnograms:
 infographics, diagrams, and maps for social science; and Thin’s Good Lives and Decent
 Societies. ≥£1.5k Atelier Network grants supported our projects including the Imagining Re-
 Curation workshop (during which practicing artists led a collaborative rethinking of how our
 accumulated ethnographic objects might be curated) and EdCMA’s interdisciplinary Beyond
 Resistance Network (which facilitated creative responses to antimicrobial resistance).
 The UoA is housed in the Chrystal Macmillan Building (CMB) on George Square, which has
 electronically bookable meeting pods and public spaces (including, since 2015, the Ground floor
 café). Within a five-minute walk of CMB are two world-class research libraries: the UoE Main
 Library on George Square (one of ten UoE libraries, with 2m books, 1.4m ebooks, and 185,000
 ejournals) and the main George IV Bridge building of the National Library of Scotland (one of the
 UK’s six Legal Deposit Libraries, with 15m books, 7m manuscripts, 2m maps, and 100,000
 periodicals). University collections were central to Edinburgh Global’s student-led collaborative
 decolonial research project UncoverEd, which exhibited marginalised student experiences in a
 rotating display on the ground floor of CMB throughout 2019. During this REF period, we
 invested £1.75m to renovate listed buildings on George Square (next to CMB) into a new PhD
 space named after the anti-apartheid activist and UoE alumna Dr Kesaveloo Goonam. 137
 desks in shared offices are allocated to individual PhD students (i.e. they are not hot desks),
 prioritising students who are writing up. The renovations incorporated data connectivity
 networking installed as part of the £5m+ investment for the Edinburgh Futures Institute (EFI).
 Our School’s Infrastructure, Information and Learning Technology Services Team (IILTS) has
 more than doubled from 11.3fte in REF2014 to 24.9fte (including Comms Team) in REF2021.
 IILTS offers laptops to incoming PhD students; uptake (around 60%) is highest among
 international students. For researchers with accessibility challenges, the School can set up a
 home office that meets the specifications of an on-campus office; during the COVID-19
 pandemic staff were offered equipment ≤£100 to support home working.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 UoE’s structure fosters interdisciplinary collaboration across the institution. As well as many
 close links within our School, we also have strong links with colleagues in Medicine and
 Veterinary Medicine, Art, Law, GeoSciences, History, and Divinity. Beyond UoE, we have
 extensive collaborative networks with academic colleagues elsewhere, including many based in
 the countries in which we conduct fieldwork. We have co-designed research projects and co-
 authored research publications with colleagues at dozens of universities and research institutes
 nationally and internationally, including several research projects in collaboration with University
 of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. Our collaborative and rapid responses to COVID-19 have
 depended on being able to mobilise established partners including Quaid-i-Azam University in
 Islamabad (Qureshi), University of the Western Cape (Cooper-Knock), UNHCR’s Innovation
 Service and Chatham House (Cross), colleagues in Burundi, DRC, Kenya, Somalia, and South
 Africa (Falisse), LSHTM and public health institutions in Sierra Leone (Street), Edinburgh Royal
 Infirmary (Street), and colleagues at UoE’s Global Academy of Agriculture and Food Security, at
 Aberdeen, and the Syria branch of CARA, the Council for At-Risk Academics (Wagner).
 UoE’s internationalisation strategy – led by Smith as Vice-Principal (International) – strongly
 supports international collaborations with fellow academics and ‘user’ organisations alike. Our
 collaborations beyond the academy inform our research and enrich our practice. This is
 exemplified by our multimodal and multifaceted engagements with the Danish Institute Against


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Torture (DIGNITY) in Copenhagen and Social Science Baha (SSB) in Kathmandu (see Impact
 strategy in Section 1). Another major highlight is Smith’s Investigating Networks of Zoonosis
 Innovation (INZI), a five-year ERC project on African Trypanosomiasis which engaged with:
 international institutions such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, WHO, and DfID;
 national control programmes in Kenya, Nigeria, South Sudan, and Uganda; research institutions
 such as the International Livestock Research Institute in Nairobi; product development
 partnerships such as GALVmed, DNDi, and FIND; and iNGOs such as Médecins Sans
 Frontières, END7, and Sightsavers. This project exemplifies a broader culture of user
 engagement; we have collaborated with dozens of other non-academic institutions including
 government departments, multi-lateral agencies, NGOs, practitioners, creative professionals,
 and trade and industry bodies.
 UoA colleagues have served as advisor on the Economic and Social Research Foundation in
 Tanzania (Gray), the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK (Molony), the ESRC-
 DfID Joint Scheme for Research on International Development (Smith), and the DfID Research
 Into Use programme (Smith). Smith serves on the ESRC Council. UoA colleagues served as
 panel members to commission major UKRI projects including: £10m GCRF call for research to
 improve adolescent health in LMIC settings (Harper); £9m GCRF UK-China Antimicrobial
 Resistance call (Harper); £1-2m GCRF Health and Context call (Harper); MRC GCRF Infections
 Foundation Awards (Harper); £8-20m GCRF Interdisciplinary Hubs to Address Intractable
 Challenges Faced by Developing Countries (Jeffery); £2-8m ESRC Centres Competition
 (Sharma); £500k-2m GCRF Rethinking the Off-Grid City (Smith). UoA members have served on
 UKRI Peer Review Colleges, and have peer reviewed research proposals for UKRI, British
 Academy, European Research Council, European Commission, UNICEF, Wellcome, World
 Bank, Independent Social Research Foundation (ISRF), Carnegie, Council for At Risk
 Academics (CARA), and national social science funding bodies in Austria, Belgium, Denmark,
 Germany, Hungary, South Africa, Switzerland, and USA.
 We have contributed to the vitality and sustainability of anthropology and development studies.
 We organise a portfolio of research events that goes far beyond our two traditional term-time
 weekly seminar series with invited speakers. Our twice-yearly Munro Lectures and associated
 PGR masterclasses were delivered by Webb Keane, Judith Farquhar, Annemarie Mol, Fred
 Myers, James Siegel, Deborah James, Rebecca Cassidy, Tania Li, Laura Bear, Penny Harvey,
 David Mosse, and Sarah Franklin. We organised two major international conferences. In 2014
 Edinburgh hosted the STAR Consortium’s Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK and
 the Commonwealth decennial conference on the theme of Anthropology and Enlightenment with
 >500 delegates. CAS hosted Africa: Connections and disruption, the 2019 European Conference
 on African Studies (ECAS), which is Europe’s largest and most international biennial conference
 with an African focus. The 1,400 delegates included an ECAS record of more than 300
 delegates from Africa; we secured funds to support the full costs of 120 Africa-based ECRs to
 attend ECAS and take part in a dedicated workshop focussing on research partnerships and
 capacity building. We hosted conferences on Mining and Political Transformations in Africa
 (2014), New Political Topographies (2015), Decolonising African Studies (2016), Law and Social
 order in Africa (2017), Politics, Society and Christianity in Malawi and Beyond (2018), Dissent
 (2018), Bangladesh Studies meeting (2018), New Approaches to Second World War Studies
 (2019, Artefacts of Conscience (2019), Annual Conference of British Nepal Academic Council
 (2019), Marriage in Past, Present, and Future Tense: Biography, Intimacy, and Transformation
 (2019), and Accessible Writing (2020).
 EdCMA hosts five active research networks – Beyond Resistance, Blood Group, Global Mental
 Health, Reproduction, and Migration and Health – which organise agenda-setting events:
 seminars with international speakers including Melissa Caldwell, Lawrence Cohen, Khiara
 Bridges, and Stacy Leigh Pigg; annual conferences on Scoping Medical Anthropology (2016),
 Global Challenges in Infectious Diseases (2017), Valuing Health (2018), and Testing Women,

                                                                                        Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Testing the Foetus (2019); and periodic workshops and roundtables on topics including Care
 (2016), Veterinary Anthropology (2016), Hospitals in the Crossfire (2016), Social Orders in
 Scientific Biomedicine (2016), Capacity Building for Global Mental Health (2017), Human Animal
 Health (2017), Politics of the Gendered Body (2017), Autism, Anthropology and Lived
 Experience (2018), Kinship, Chronic Illness and Responsibility of Care (2019), The Value and
 Ethics of Practices of Care (2020). Beyond UoE, EdCMA co-organises (with Durham’s
 Anthropology of Health group) an annual Advanced Workshop for Anthropological Research on
 Health, Medicine, and Wellbeing. Beyond the UK, EdCMA has initiated a stronger collaboration
 with the University of Copenhagen Anthropology Department’s Health and Life Conditions
 Research Group, co-organising a seminar on Uncertain Futures (which had to be postponed due
 to the COVID-19 pandemic); we look forward to future collaborations and strengthened ties.
 UoA colleagues served in their respective professional associations, including as chair/convenor
 or co-convenor of the EASA Anthropology of Law, Rights and Governance network (Anders), the
 DSA Business and Development Study Group (Bowman), the International Union of
 Tuberculosis and Lung Disease Ethics Working Group (Harper), and the international advisory
 board of the Centre for Livestock Genetic Health (Smith). UoA colleagues served as member on:
 RAI Policy and Practice Committee (Anders), RAI Environment and Anthropology Committee
 (Haines), African Studies Association UK Council (Karekwaivanane), Africa-Europe Group for
 Interdisciplinary Studies (Molony), British Association of South Asian Studies committee
 (Sharma), and Britain Nepal Academic Council (Sharma). Dieng leads the Development Studies
 Association UK’s Decolonising Development Study Group and has coordinated a series of
 dialogues on African Feminisms for the Review of African Political Economy and Africa is a
 Country blogs. Dieng, Iwilade, and Kalinga have recently been elected members of the African
 Studies Association of the UK Council (2020-22).
 We have served as editors, co-editors, or editorial collectives for journals including Medicine
 Anthropology Theory (co-edited by an EdCMA editorial collective including Cooper, Edmonds,
 Harper, Kalinga, Lowe, Marsland, Qureshi, Segal, and Street), Advances in Research: Conflict
 and Society (Segal), BioScope: South Asian Screen Studies (Hoek), Critical African Studies
 (Gray), HAU: Journal of Ethnographic Theory (High), Humanity: Interdisciplinary Journal of
 Development, Human Rights and Humanitarianism (Kelly), Journal of Modern African Studies
 (Dwyer), Journal of the British Academy (Carsten), Journal of Southern African Studies
 (Karekwaivanane), Medical Anthropology Quarterly (Ecks), Review of African Political Economy
 (Iwilade, Oppong), South Asia: Journal of South Asian Studies (Sharma), The South Asianist
 (Sharma), Tidsskriftet Antropologis Danish Journal of Anthropology (Segal), and Visual Culture
 in Britain (Baxstrom); and as editors or co-editors of book series including James Currey
 Religion in Transforming Africa (Bompani), Pluto Press Anthropology, Culture and Society
 (Cross), University of Pennsylvania Press Ethnographies of Political Violence (Kelly), and
 Cambridge New Departures in Anthropology (Spencer). We served on advisory editorial boards
 for >20 further academic journals and book series and reviewed draft articles and book
 manuscripts for >150 academic journals and presses. Sharma and (former PhD student)
 Heneise take over as co-editors of the OA peer-reviewed journal Himalaya in late 2020, and
 Marsland becomes co-editor of Medical Anthropology in early 2021.




                                                                                          Page 18
