Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 19 (Politics and International Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
         2B




 The Politics and International Relations (PIR) Department at Aberdeen celebrated its 50th
 birthday in 2014, the beginning of the REF cycle. Since then, we have increased our capacity
 with investment from the University to become a medium-sized, ambitious and thriving
 Department with 19.8 full time equivalent (FTE) members of teaching and research staff and
 three teaching and scholarship staff, combining excellence in research and teaching across the
 discipline. As the Department has grown in staff numbers and expertise, we have further
 developed our reputation for research excellence around four key themes: Comparative Politics
 and Public Policy; Conflict and Security Studies; Democracy and Representation; and Political
 and International Relations Theory. Our overall vision is to be an internationally regarded PIR
 department that embraces pluralism, building on our traditional strengths (on democracy,
 representation, public policy and security) and being inclusive of new approaches and
 specialisms as our discipline evolves in response to emerging research priorities. This
 commitment chimes with the University’s Strategic Plan, Aberdeen 2040 (see REF5a), on
 inclusion and interdisciplinarity. PIR research also has an important comparative dimension with
 expertise across Africa, Asia, the Americas, the EU and the rest of Europe, the former Soviet
 Union, the Middle East and the UK. PIR is the largest unit in the School of Social Science,
 alongside Anthropology and Sociology. This interdisciplinary intellectual environment further
 enhances our research culture. Collaboration, inclusivity and interdisciplinarity inform our four
 research themes and, with colleagues across the social sciences and beyond, are integral to our
 research and impact strategy.

 Research Strategy
 The central aim of our research strategy has been to build our capacity to lead scholarship and
 policy thinking on the world’s most pressing political problems, regionally, nationally and
 internationally. Reflecting our four research themes, our work excels in diverse research areas
 including comparative constitutional politics, political party membership and political activism,
 democratic representation in established democracies, energy and environmental politics, digital
 democracy, the extreme right in Europe, gender, regional and international security, terrorism
 and counter-terrorism, civil-military relations, memory politics/apologies, protest and transition,
 post-conflict peacebuilding and critical political theory.

 The Department’s research and impact strategy is developed with staff and led by the PIR
 Research Officer, Head of Department, School Director of Research and the Head of Social
 Science. Throughout the assessment period, we have progressed several strategic priorities: 1)
 refining our research identity/key research themes; 2) promoting intra- and inter-disciplinary
 collaboration; and 3) driving ambitious research goals, principally via external grant applications.
 We approach these priorities with our commitment to transcend any rigid disciplinary boundaries
 between Politics and International Relations in the development of research projects and
 collaborations.

     (i)     Refining our research identity
 To hone our research identity, we have refined our research themes to develop and sustain our
 activities and expertise. Reflecting the breadth of our expertise across Politics and International
 Relations, we have cemented these research themes as Comparative Politics and Public Policy;
 Conflict and Security; Democracy and Representation; and Political and IR Theory. As with our
 research strategy for REF2014, our specific research projects, academic networks and
 publications overlap across these themes, creating additional synergies.

     (i)    Building academic and non-academic collaborations
 We have enhanced our collaborations with scholars in the discipline, across the social sciences
 and beyond. Staff have participated in interdisciplinary opportunities within the School and with
 colleagues outside the University. Our collaborative work is also underpinned by a commitment

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to research user engagement (with policymakers across the UK, Europe and in international
 organisations, NGOs and community organisations) and wider public engagement. Research
 users have been involved in the design, execution and dissemination phases of our projects.
 Keating’s ESRC-funded work as Director of the Centre on Constitutional Change has involved
 considerable liaison and consultation with government officials and politicians across the UK.
 Smith’s work arising from the Horizon 2020 project EU-CIVCAP (Developing EU Civilian
 Capabilities for a Sustainable Peace) has featured extensive engagement with EU officials
 working on conflict prevention and peacebuilding. Toke has liaised with policymakers and
 industry on shifting energy politics in Scotland, the UK and internationally. Bain has regularly
 liaised with the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) on Cuban politics
 and held a workshop with FDCO officials at the University in 2019. Drawing on the EU-funded
 FP7 Arab Transformations project, Teti has engaged with national, EU and international
 policymakers, NGOs and advocacy groups on Middle East policy. Bennie’s ESRC-funded work
 on political party membership has involved liaison with political parties and government officials
 in Scotland in the wake of the 2014 independence referendum.

      (ii)    Supporting ambitious research agendas
 The Department has focused on helping staff achieve ambitious research objectives. Our
 initiatives have included enhanced mentoring across the Department; regular research
 development reviews/annual reviews (providing feedback on research and impact plans); grant-
 writing workshops; and a more streamlined process of internal peer review of grant applications
 and working papers. Facilitating the Department’s collective research ambition has also involved
 participating in School and University-wide initiatives including visits from external funders,
 presentations on funders’ priorities (Carnegie, AHRC, ESRC, GCRF) and interdisciplinary
 sandpit events on a range of topics, bringing together colleagues to pursue potential
 collaboration. The success of our efforts to drive ambitious research agendas has been
 demonstrated by important recognition and awards during the assessment period (see Section
 4). Our four-stranded research strategy has also enabled staff to deliver policy-relevant,
 research-led teaching, enhancing the experience of our large cohort of PIR undergraduate and
 postgraduate students.

 Comparative Politics and Public Policy
 Public policy has long been a particular area of expertise in PIR at Aberdeen. Building on the
 celebrated work of several predecessors, colleagues have further developed this specialism
 over the REF cycle. Some of this expertise focuses on public policy at the state level. For
 example, Keating’s work as Senior ESRC Fellowship on the Future of the UK and Scotland has
 explored the options for Scottish constitutional change and the implications for the future of the
 UK. This body of research, a collaboration between PIR and the Centre for Constitutional
 Change (led by Keating) investigates the public policy implications of Brexit and multi-level
 governance across the UK and is enhanced by Harvey’s work on UK devolution. Toke’s work on
 energy politics cements PIR’s reputation for expertise on a policy issue of particular significance
 for North-East Scotland. Our expertise on public policy extends to policymaking at the regional
 and international levels: Smith’s work on the EU’s Common Security and Defence Policy; Teti’s
 work on EU democracy promotion; Anagnostakis on EU-US cooperation on counter-terrorism
 and EU-NATO security cooperation; McEvoy on UN and EU peace mediation; Tabur
 (Scholarship staff) on EU policy-making on migration and development all bear testament to this
 specialist input.

 Conflict and Security Studies
 Over the assessment period, PIR has developed its research expertise in the areas of peace,
 conflict and security studies, thanks to ongoing work by senior staff (McEvoy, Smith and Wyllie)
 and the recruitment of several new colleagues (Aboultaif, Anagnostakis and Lekunze). Our
 research on this broad theme includes political violence within and between states, post-conflict
 peacebuilding and institutional design, terrorism and counter-terrorism as well as more
 theoretical explorations of peace and conflict in contemporary IR. Our funding strategy has been
 to pursue international collaborative projects and to support early career researchers in their
 research funding plans. For example, Smith was Co-Investigator on the EU Horizon 2020 EU-

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CIVCAP international consortium project, Developing EU Civilian Capacities for a Sustainable
 Peace, which provided a multidisciplinary analysis of the EU’s capabilities in conflict prevention
 and peacebuilding. McEvoy’s work on power-sharing democracy in post-conflict states has been
 funded by the Canadian Social Science and Humanities Research Council on the role of
 external actors (UN and EU) in promoting and maintaining power-sharing. Anagnostakis,
 Bentley and Danilova secured funding from the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland
 for their respective projects on EU-NATO cooperation, state political apology and war
 commemoration. Wyllie’s work on regional nuclearization and training of PGT and PGR
 students in Strategic Studies has long been an important element of our research culture.
 Lekunze (Scholarship staff) is developing our expertise in African security with Scottish Funding
 Council support for a series of workshops entitled “Conversations on African Security”.

 Democracy and Representation
 This research theme is a longstanding focus for the Department and brings together staff with
 expertise on political behaviour, parties/elections, public policy, civil society and democratisation.
 We have recently recruited two staff members at Lecturer level (Paget, Thomas) to expand our
 expertise in this theme. Extending previous research on political parties and party membership,
 Bennie was PI on the ESRC-funded project, Recruited by Referendum: Party Membership
 Energised that explored the extraordinary surge in party membership for the Scottish National
 Party and the Scottish Green Party following the 2014 independence referendum. Several
 colleagues have established reputations for their expertise on Scottish politics, evidenced by the
 contributions by Bennie, Harvey and Keating to the Oxford Handbook on Scottish Politics
 (2020). Our comparative focus on democracy and democratisation has been developed by
 Bain’s work on Latin America (principally democracy promotion in Cuba) and by Teti’s Arab
 Transformations Project, an international research consortium funded by the European
 Commission to evaluate the political, social and economic transformations before and after the
 Arab Uprisings of 2010-2011. Our comparative strengths are also evidenced by Widfeldt’s
 expertise on the extreme right in Europe and Xypolia’s work on democracy, nationalism and
 imperialism pertaining to the Eastern Mediterranean. Thomas’ work on comparative public
 opinion research and political psychology brings additional expertise on democracy, participation
 and survey data collection to the Department. Our traditional strengths in democracy and
 representation are enhanced by Paget’s work on political communication, particularly the
 importance of mass rallies, with empirical application in Sub-Saharan Africa.

 Political and International Relations Theory
 Though all our research is theoretically informed, our fourth research theme brings together
 colleagues with strengths in critical international and social theory. Collectively, these colleagues
 bring their engagement with cutting edge theoretical work in IR to research, the classroom and
 PhD supervision, while also leading initiatives to build networks in new areas of research
 nationally and internationally. This theme has a strong critical perspective, including Vij’s
 expertise on international political economy and precarity in a global context; Teti’s Foucauldian
 analysis of confessional forms of power; Bentley’s Carnegie Trust-funded work on memory,
 apology and post-colonial theory; and Danilova’s work on military culture in Scotland funded by
 the Carnegie Trust and AHRC. Colleagues’ work in this theme has included the organisation of
 workshops, invited talks and keynote speeches, for example: Vij’s British International Studies
 Association (BISA) workshop on “Sovereignty and Precarity” (2018), panels at European
 International Studies Association (EISA) and International Studies Association (ISA)
 conferences; and a keynote speech on “Precarity and IR” at the Jawaharlal Nehru University,
 India; Teti’s funded competitive Visiting Fellowships (Amsterdam 2015-16, Ghent 2018, Cagliari
 2019); and a series of invited talks at international institutions. Our other empirically focused
 work also has a strong theoretical component, for example: Anagnostakis on international
 regime theory relating to security cooperation; Bain’s work on bilateral relations and foreign
 policy analysis (Russia-Cuba); Bennie’s contributions on political parties and social movement
 theory; Smith’s institutional analysis of EU policy-making; Widfeldt on populism and the
 European extreme right; and Aboultaif and McEvoy’s research on consociationalism/power-
 sharing theory with empirical application across Europe and the Middle East.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic objectives for the next five years
 Over the course of the assessment period, and building on our achievements, our research and
 impact strategy has been evaluated in line with the institutional strategic plan, Aberdeen 2040
 (See REF5a) and with a view to developing and enhancing our strategic priorities for our future
 research and impact agenda.
    1. As an integral part of our research strategy, we will further develop and strengthen
        collaborations with research users (policymakers and stakeholders) that we have
        fostered over the assessment period. This will require departmental focus on how we can
        best connect our policy-relevant research with active policy engagement at regional,
        national and international levels. Many of our projects underway have important research
        user engagement strategies, supported by University structures such as the Public
        Engagement with Research team.
    2. We will drive the Department’s research ambitions by developing our research expertise
        and external grant applications in areas identified by the UK government and
        international funders as priority areas (e.g., the Global Challenges Research Fund),
        drawing on research capacity across our four research themes. Pursuit of this objective
        will be supported by the University’s Grants Academy within Research and Innovation,
        the University’s directorate dedicated to maximizing research income and supporting
        staff developing and delivering innovative research (see REF5a).
    3. As the Department has grown, with the majority of staff at Lecturer and Senior Lecturer
        levels, we will further develop tailored research support for both early career researchers
        and for mid-career academics seeking to win large grants and lead international
        collaborative projects. Delivering on this objective will require building on existing
        research support structures in the Department in collaboration with Research and
        Innovation, the School Director of Research, the PIR Research Officer and the School of
        Social Science Research Committee.

 Funding Strategy
 A central element of our overall research and impact strategy is to ensure that all staff receive
 excellent support in developing their research from application to publication. A new
 administrative role created over the REF period, the PIR Research Officer, works with the
 Grants Academy, the School Research Committee and the School Director of Research to help
 staff respond to relevant calls and develop research applications. This support is achieved by
 sharing opportunities for research funding (notification of new/urgent national and international
 funding calls) and robust internal review procedures of all grant applications. These procedures
 have served to enhance the success rate of the Department’s funding applications over the REF
 period. Staff have been supported by the University’s Internal Pump Priming Fund (IPPF),
 offered as a means to leverage funding in the context of the Global Challenges Research Fund
 (GCRF). Bain secured GCRF-IPPF funding to hold a workshop at Aberdeen involving
 academics, international policymakers and practitioners interested in lessons learned from the
 Cuban development model for sustainability. McEvoy, with a colleague in Sociology, secured
 GCRF-IPPF funding for academic and policymaker workshops in Sarajevo and Beirut on the
 challenges of good governance in conflict-affected states. These projects, and other GCRF-IPPF
 projects underway (e.g., Lekunze’s seminar series on African security), are being developed with
 a view to targeting future GCRF calls. PIR has provided ECRs with small grants in addition to
 the School annual travel budget to help build their research experience before applying for larger
 awards.

 Impact Strategy
 An integral part of our research strategy is the careful planning and execution of how the
 Department’s research excellence can contribute to the myriad social, economic and political
 challenges facing contemporary society. Our research is utilised by several key audiences:
 policymakers at local, regional, national and international levels; political parties; non-
 governmental organisations; industry; and civil society. We have sought to facilitate research
 impact in the Department’s projects in several ways. Much of this effort involves staff liaison with
 the Research and Innovation Office that shares good practice from across the University and
 offers guidance to help ensure that research impact is embedded within grant applications from

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the early design stage to submission, execution and dissemination. Staff also attend workshops
 and grant-writing sessions that focus on enhancing impact standards run by the Grants
 Academy (Staff liaise with the University’s Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERU)),
 which offers training and support in organising public engagement activities. In keeping with our
 commitment to share our research findings with the wider public, staff also participate in the
 University’s annual ESRC Festival of Social Science (e.g., Keating’s work on Brexit, Harvey on
 the Scottish independence referendum). Going forward, we will share good practice from this
 assessment period as models for research grant applications and projects in the years ahead.
 For REF 2021 we have selected two impact case studies: Keating’s work on constitutional
 politics in the UK; and Teti’s Arab Transformations project on political attitudes to the Arab
 Uprisings. These were chosen as representations of excellent, impact-informed research that
 takes place in PIR. Developed over several years, they are showcases of our wider impact
 strategy, prioritising research user engagement and informing policy and public debate.

 Other colleagues have progressed ongoing impact involving engagement with research users,
 policymakers and the wider public in Scotland and with UK government officials and
 parliamentary committees at Westminster. Bennie’s work on party membership involved
 delivering a high-profile dissemination event for policymakers, politicians and the media in
 Edinburgh. The event was featured in Holyrood magazine (reaching parliamentarians and public
 officials), and the project findings were widely debated on social media. Bain’s work on Cuba
 has involved regular liaison with the FCDO and dissemination at the Scottish Parliament. Toke’s
 ESRC-funded research on renewable energy policy has involved extensive collaboration with
 Scottish government officials in Edinburgh. May delivered a talk at the Scottish Parliament (with
 a colleague in Anthropology) in association with the Cross-Party Group for Tibet. Paget has
 liaised with FCDO officials and with US officials in USAID and the Department of State on
 Tanzanian politics. Danilova, with support from the Carnegie Trust and the University’s Public
 Engagement Enabling Fund, presented a public talk on the importance of the Scottish Warrior
 for Scotland’s history, culture and identity politics at the Gordon Highlanders Museum in
 Aberdeen.

 Other impact work takes place with research users at the international level. Smith’s EU-
 CIVCAP project, involving 12 international partners, held a series of “Research Meets Policy”
 seminars in Brussels, bringing together EU policymakers, practitioners and researchers. Smith
 and the wider consortium disseminated a series of documents on lessons for EU conflict
 prevention and peacebuilding relating to EU strategies, staff recruitment, training, resources and
 mission support. McEvoy disseminated policy briefs on post-conflict power-sharing to officials at
 the UN Department of Political Affairs and the EU External Action Service and shared research
 findings with policymakers (EU, FCDO, UN) at academic/practitioner workshops in Sarajevo and
 Beirut. As part of our overarching research strategy, the Department is committed to open
 access as a means to ensure effective dissemination of our research and to enhance the impact
 of our work for non-academic audiences.

 Interdisciplinarity Strategy
 PIR enjoys the position of being the largest department within the School of Social Science, a
 structure that facilitates easy dialogue and collaboration with colleagues in Anthropology and
 Sociology. Our commitment to pursuing the potential for interdisciplinary conversations on topics
 of shared concern have included informal get-togethers, such as monthly coffee mornings and
 the respective departments’ seminar series, which encourage attendance and participation
 across the School. Staff also engage in interdisciplinary collaboration and events with research
 centres across the University; in particular, the Centre for Citizenship, Civil Society and Rule of
 Law (CISRUL), an interdisciplinary centre across the Arts and Social Sciences with an interest in
 the study of political concepts including democracy, human rights and pluralism.

 Some of our interdisciplinary work takes place within the School, for example, May’s work with
 colleagues in Anthropology on Tibet and Islam and McEvoy’s work with colleagues in Sociology
 on post-conflict peacebuilding. At the University level, Toke was Co-Investigator in the Centre
 for Doctoral Training in Sustainable Production of Chemicals, led by Chemical Engineering at

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aberdeen and funded by the Leverhulme Trust. PIR staff have also been involved in
 interdisciplinary research with colleagues at other institutions. Smith’s EU-CIVCAP project on
 EU conflict prevention hosted an international Expert’s Network of academics and practitioners
 from a range of disciplinary and professional backgrounds. Danilova’s AHRC-funded work “The
 Hero Project” (with colleagues in Cultural History and English Language and Literature at
 Birmingham and Durham) was an interdisciplinary project that explored the role of a hero in
 modern Britain (and with two partner organisations, the Royal Geographical Society in London
 and the Scottish National Portrait Gallery in Edinburgh). Teti was Project Leader of the EU-
 funded Arab Transformations Project, with partners from several Middle Eastern and European
 countries.

 The Department’s research and impact strategy is designed to cohere with the University’s
 Strategic Plan, which has prioritised interdisciplinarity as a key theme for the years ahead. PIR
 will support and develop the University’s interdisciplinary commitments, pursuing collaboration
 across subject areas to develop creative solutions to pressing local, national and international
 political problems. Some of our staff have been involved in developing the interdisciplinary
 commitments prioritised in the Plan, particularly with reference to Energy Transition (Toke) and
 Social Inclusion and Cultural Diversity (Bain).

 Research Ethics
 The Department’s research and impact strategy acknowledges the importance of research
 integrity and ethics in all our activities. The Department follows the University’s ethics and
 research governance arrangements that support projects from design to execution,
 dissemination and user engagement. The University’s Research Governance Handbook
 includes information for staff on ethical review and opportunities for training in research ethics
 and governance, and in research integrity and is enhanced by the work of the Committee for
 Research Ethics and Governance in Arts, Social Sciences and Busines providing relevant policy
 and procedures guidance. Where required, our research projects undergo a review process for
 ethical approval and we follow the Political Studies Association Guidelines for Good Professional
 Conduct as the professional standard for research integrity and ethics. The School of Social
 Science has a dedicated Ethics Officer who provides regular updates on ethics governance and
 answers any queries staff and students may have. Information about research matters such as
 data management and GDPR is disseminated to staff via monthly School Forum meetings, and
 where required, training is provided by the University staff responsible for these matters.

 3B   2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Throughout the assessment period, we have made the retention and recruitment of high quality
 staff central to our research strategy. Though several staff submitted in REF 2014 moved to
 other institutions or retired during the assessment period, we have focused our staffing strategy
 on 1) securing university investment in the Department for new recruits and 2) retaining quality
 staff who have made important contributions to the Department, University and discipline.
 Compared to a small department of 12 eligible staff for REF2014, we are now a medium-sized,
 thriving department of 20 teaching and research staff (19.8 FTE) and three research-active
 teaching and scholarship staff. Our staffing strategy has been about facilitating and enhancing
 our overall research strategy and key research themes. In the Conflict and Security theme, we
 recruited a lecturer with expertise in terrorism and counter-terrorism (Anagnostakis); a lecturer
 in deeply divided societies and the Middle East (Aboultaif); and a teaching fellow with expertise
 on security in Sub-Saharan Africa (Lekunze). In the Democracy and Representation theme, May
 was appointed as lecturer with expertise in Political Islam and Islamic movements; Thomas, as
 lecturer with expertise in political attitudes and quantitative methods; and Paget, as lecturer in
 Digital Democracy, was hired as one of 50 new colleagues across the University as part of the
 ambitious Principal’s Strategic Investment Posts scheme.

 PIR has developed a research staffing strategy with a central aim to promote research
 excellence:

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     (i)     Growing the Department via investment in and support for Early Career Researchers
 Our staffing strategy has sought to secure an important balance between various levels of
 seniority with an enlarged team to include early career, mid-career and senior academics. With
 staff across these various levels we have enhanced our research culture to ensure all staff can
 progress their academic careers. To achieve this balance, our hiring strategy has prioritised
 investment in and support for early career researchers as an important means of ensuring
 sustainability. During the assessment period, we have enhanced the structure of this support
 with robust probation procedures and a mentoring scheme where each ECR is matched with a
 senior colleague who provides regular feedback on research plans, grant applications and
 publications. There is a clear probation process, involving the ECR staff’s Academic Line
 Manager and mentor, who support junior colleagues in achieving the criteria required for
 tenure/confirmation of an open ended contract. These procedures have been developed over
 the assessment period, providing additional support for ECRs. New colleagues participate in an
 induction programme including one-to-one meetings with the School Directors of Research and
 Teaching and Learning. ECR staff can apply for financial support from a departmental fund
 intended to help build research expertise and experience or apply for other seed funds within the
 University such as the GCRF Internal Pump Priming Fund (e.g., Lekunze’s Conversations on
 African Security seminar series). ECRs are also encouraged to develop their research plans by
 participating in the PIR seminar series and in research management training and grant-writing
 sessions organised by the Grants Academy; such as the UKRI “bootcamp” workshops for staff
 working on ESRC or AHRC applications. Support for ECR staff is also prioritised in the
 supervision of PhD candidates whereby more senior staff take the lead and work to develop staff
 experience in guiding students to completion.

      (ii)    Enhanced support for developing research careers
 In addition to the focus on ECRs, we have developed support structures to enable all staff to
 build successful research careers. We have formalised our professional development
 procedures over the assessment period. For example, we hold annual reviews whereby
 Academic Line Managers meet with staff to review their achievements and plans for the
 following 12 months with particular focus on research as well as teaching and administrative
 responsibilities. Academic Line Managers (Bain, Bennie, McEvoy, and Smith) also help
 support staff as they develop their career plans in line with the criteria set out in promotion
 processes. To help further support our staff’s research plans and career development, PIR has
 developed a form of research leave, introduced as a light sabbatical “Temporary Course
 Reduction” whereby three staff per year have a reduced teaching semester (in compliance with
 the institutional research leave policy). As PIR has grown in recent years with several new staff,
 we plan to increase the number of staff who benefit each year from the reduced teaching load.
 We are assisted by the Grants Academy team, which supports researchers with all stages of the
 grant cycle, from conception of ideas to development of high-quality applications to project
 delivery, dissemination and impact. Business Development Officers help staff prepare for
 funding calls and build our external grant portfolios, and colleagues in the Researcher
 Development Unit provide professional development opportunities, grant-writing support and
 training in project management, strategic career planning, academic leadership, public
 engagement and communication of our research. Staff in the Scholarly Communications Service
 (see REF5a) advise on Open Access and support the effective dissemination of our research.
 Supporting the University’s commitment as a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, the Department will continue to build its career development
 policy in line with the Concordat principles relating to research environment and culture,
 employment and career development. Aberdeen’s strength in this area is reflected in its HR
 Excellence in Research Award (see REF5a).

 Training and Supervision of Research Students
 Over the REF period we have guided 31.81 PhD degrees (by supervisor share) to completion,
 double the figure for the previous REF cycle. PIR’s PGR community is international in nature,
 making for a thriving, lively research environment. The key strategic objective for our graduate
 community is research excellence: inviting applications of quality, providing a high quality

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training, supervision and research environment and preparing our students for ambitious career
 paths in academia and policy roles. All applications are reviewed by several members of staff,
 and candidates can be invited to submit a revised application based on staff feedback to ensure
 the very best proposals are considered and approved. In an increasingly competitive funding
 environment, many of our PhD candidates benefit from various sources of international support.
 For example, we have two PhD students registered in the interdisciplinary “Political Concepts in
 the World” (POLITICO) programme (with Teti on the Board), a Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie doctoral training programme situated in CISRUL.

 PIR works closely with the Head of School (Bain), Postgraduate Research School, School
 Director of Postgraduate Studies (Toke) and the Dean for Postgraduate Research. The PIR PhD
 Coordinator has monthly meetings with the Dean to discuss aspects of PGR support structures,
 training opportunities and monitoring/progression procedures. Much of the PGR training is
 multidisciplinary, bringing together PGRs from across the University to learn from each other’s
 expertise and experience. Elements of this training are mandatory for all first year PGRs
 including training on Research Governance and Ethics, Research Integrity, Equality and
 Diversity and Information Security and Data Management. PIR supports all our PGRs in
 accessing the training opportunities offered by the University’s Postgraduate Research School
 and embedding these new skills and knowledge into their respective research projects.

 PIR has a long history of successful PhD supervision. Each PhD candidate has at least two
 supervisors and the supervisory team may comprise of colleagues from across the School of
 Social Science and from other Schools (e.g., Law, History, Geography, Education). New
 colleagues undertake training in supervision provided by the Postgraduate Research School,
 and more experienced colleagues undertake refresher training every five years. Supervisors are
 invited to participate in events organised by the Postgraduate Research School, including the
 regular supervisor breakfast sessions, providing an informal platform for supervisors to share
 experiences, seek guidance and learn from peers. Supervisor Masterclasses focus on topics
 including Improving Communication with your PGR student; Examining Research Doctorates;
 and Supporting Distance/Online Doctorates. Over the assessment period, we have refined our
 supervision procedures to include robust departmental monitoring for postgraduate research. At
 the end of Year 1, a formal End of Year 1 PhD Review meeting takes place with the candidate,
 supervisor(s), another member of staff outside the supervisory team and the PIR PhD
 Coordinator as Chair, and six-monthly reports are submitted to the Postgraduate Research
 School.

 Our training and supervision are embedded in principles of research excellence and have helped
 enhance a research culture in which PGRs are fully integrated. Our PhD students engage with
 our seminar series and are invited to attend job applicants’ presentations. Our PGRs regularly
 participate in panels and training sessions at national and international academic conferences
 (e.g., European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR), Political Studies Association (PSA),
 ISA, BISA). They benefit from the University’s Development Trust funds and the School’s budget
 for travel to conferences and for fieldwork. PIR provides teaching opportunities at the
 undergraduate level as a core element of academic training. Students awarded PhDs within the
 REF period have gone on to successful careers including post-doctoral research fellowships and
 academic posts at the Universities of Aberdeen, Al-Imam Muhammad Ibn Saud Islamic
 University, Saudi Arabia, Durham, Karlsruhe University of Education, Germany, the Marten
 Center in Brussels, NDU Lebanon, Munich, Northumbria, Oxford, Richmond, Stirling, Tallinn;
 and policy jobs in the UK government and Scottish government/Parliament.

 Promotion of Equality and Diversity
 PIR views equality and diversity as integral to our staffing strategy of recruiting and retaining
 high quality researchers. Complementing a research strategy committed to disciplinary pluralism
 and inclusion, we seek to create a fully inclusive research culture that celebrates the diversity of
 our staff and students. The Department works with the Head of School (Bain), University Senior
 Management and the University’s Equality and Diversity Officer to engage staff and students in
 equality and diversity matters. We adopt a proactive approach to equality and diversity, providing

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support to all staff or PGR students with a protected characteristic. Our commitment to equality
 and diversity requires balance in PIR recruitment panels in terms of gender, race and age as per
 the University’s policy on selection and recruitment committees. All members of staff involved in
 recruitment panels must undertake the University’s Equality and Diversity training and
 Unconscious Bias training. PIR’s research support mechanisms (e.g., probation procedures,
 annual reviews and mentoring processes) pay particular attention to equality and diversity
 concerns. This support ties in with the School’s commitments under the Athena SWAN initiative
 on gender equality. The School successfully applied for the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in
 2017, with an Action Plan to be rolled out between 2017 and submission for the Silver Award in
 November 2021. Several PIR staff (McAngus, McEvoy, Thomas, Xypolia) have been
 members of the Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team. In PIR, female staff have played
 prominent roles in management and key administrative roles (Head of Department, REF Lead,
 Research Officer, PhD Coordinator), providing evidence of good career prospects for female
 staff. Female colleagues can also benefit from opportunities for career development in academic
 leadership via the School’s support of the Aurora network (e.g., McEvoy). PIR feeds directly into
 University initiatives on Race; Vij is Co-Chair of the University-wide Staff Race Equality Network,
 liaising with colleagues on our collective commitments to diversity.

 Our commitment to equality and diversity has been embedded in the Department’s preparations
 for REF2021. We have developed our REF preparations in a transparent and fair manner,
 particularly with regard to the communication of internal and external reviews of staff’s proposed
 outputs and in the output selection process. We have been guided by the University’s long-
 standing commitments to equality and diversity and the institutional Code of Practice for
 REF2021 which sets out the ways in which our output selection should take into account staff’s
 individual circumstances. Overall, output selection has been guided by the San Francisco
 Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and the University’s Code of Practice, particularly
 with regard to assessing research on its own merits rather than on the basis of the journal or
 publication outlet. In cooperation with the University’s central REF team, we have been careful to
 enable staff to voluntarily declare their individual circumstances where this may have impacted
 upon their ability to contribute to our output portfolio. Colleagues’ administrative responsibilities
 are continually reviewed as a means to allocate roles fairly, thereby providing everyone with
 research time. In the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, PIR has been mindful of the different
 circumstances and challenges experienced by colleagues working from home. Some colleagues
 have caring responsibilities and/or live with family members who are shielding. Senior
 colleagues and Academic Line Managers have liaised with colleagues undertaking research
 projects, providing advice on how to continue their research given the associated public health
 restrictions. PIR has offered support for extensions to projects, particularly when research
 projects include an extensive data collection element.

 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As outlined in Section 1, our research strategy for the next five years includes building and
 strengthening collaborations with research users; driving our external grant funding, including a
 focus on areas identified by the UK government and international funders as priority areas; and
 developing tailored research support for ECRs and mid-career academics seeking to win large
 grants or to lead international collaborative projects. Since 2014, this strategy has been
 designed to maximise our efforts to grow research income, especially in the challenging context
 of staff changes. Average annual income per REF eligible FTE has more than doubled
 compared to income reported to REF2014, growing from £7,624 per eligible FTE per year for
 REF2014 to £19,651 per FTE per year for REF2021. We have managed the transition well by
 recruiting several ECRs with ambitious research agendas who have begun to win small-medium
 sized grants. Our strategy in the years ahead is to enhance our grant-raising culture, support
 staff across the various levels and build our external grant portfolio.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 PIR is located on the University’s Old Aberdeen campus, sharing a building with our Social
 Science colleagues in Anthropology and Sociology. Each staff member has their own office and

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we benefit from communal space including the coffee/lunch lounge which we also use for
 seasonal get-togethers and the annual drinks receptions on Graduation days. Our PGRs also
 have office space in our building, facilitating a lively research environment with daily
 opportunities for intellectual interaction. Our PIR seminar series takes place in the largest room
 on the PIR corridor which can accommodate up to fifty people. The Department benefits from an
 extensive research collection via the Sir Duncan Rice Library (see REF5a), a state-of-the-art,
 award-winning library that opened in 2012. We enjoy access to thousands of books and millions
 of journal articles in electronic format, a vast collection that can be accessed on and off campus.
 We have access to excellent facilities for workshops, training events, and departmental meetings
 (e.g., research away days) in the Library and colleagues (e.g., Bain, Bennie, Toke) have
 utilised these spaces for externally-funded events. PIR also benefits from access to the
 collections in the Taylor Library, the University’s specialist law library, which also houses the
 Official Publications Collections and the European Documentation Centre, thereby supporting
 some of our interdisciplinary work. As mentioned earlier, our research (from sharing project
 ideas to preparing and submitting grant applications) is supported by colleagues in IT and
 Research and Innovation including the Grants Academy and a dedicated Business Development
 Officer (See REF5a).

 Open Access of Research Outputs and Data
 PIR is committed to facilitating open access in line with the REF2021 Open Access Policy
 whereby journal articles are made publicly available within three months of acceptance. In 2020,
 83 per cent of our journal articles and 65 per cent of book chapters were open access compliant.
 PIR has demonstrated a commitment to an open research environment by depositing
 publications in the University repository. Over the assessment period eleven datasets have been
 deposited in the UK Data Archive, Zenodo, online websites and the University’s repository. All
 project outputs from the EU-funded Arab Transformations project are available via free online
 open access. Data and deliverables are available on the University repository, on ResearchGate
 and academia.edu. Data is also stored on the ESRC repository and JStor, and the Arab Council
 for Social Sciences is to host the data on its own “dataverse”. PIR staff link their ORCID number
 to PURE, supporting the University and REF position that ORCID provides a helpful, persistent
 identifier for research staff throughout their career. As ORCID is increasingly required in external
 funding applications, we have ensured that all Category A staff have an ORCID identifier linked
 to PURE. Also of relevance are the international Leiden rankings on university research, which
 places Aberdeen 8th in the UK for social science and humanities when ranked by percentage of
 female authorship.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Over the REF period, PIR has encouraged collaboration with academic and non-academic
 partners, and with wider audiences, as priorities for our overall research strategy. This
 collaboration is central to our overall aim of contributing to scholarship and policy thinking on the
 world’s most pressing political problems. As confirmed in Section 1, we will build on our
 achievements during the assessment period to develop and strengthen our collaborations with
 research users (policymakers and stakeholders). Our work has also made important
 contributions to the research base and the disciplines of Politics and International Relations.

     (i)     National and International Academic Collaborations
 In tune with the University’s commitments to collaborative scholarship, much of our research
 involves cooperation and partnerships with academics in other institutions. This academic
 collaboration enhances our expertise, reach and internationalisation, an important priority for the
 University’s strategic plan, Aberdeen 2040 (See REF5a). Keating’s ESRC-funded work has
 involved extensive national and international collaboration via the Centre for Constitutional
 Change, involving academics from other institutions across the UK, Republic of Ireland and
 Europe. Smith’s Horizon 2020 grant on EU capabilities in conflict prevention and peacebuilding
 was based on extensive collaboration with 12 international partners (academic institutions,
 NGOs and think tanks). Other staff have acted as Co-Investigator on funded projects with
 national and international academic partners: Bennie’s ESRC-funded project with colleagues in

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Edinburgh and Essex; Danilova’s AHRC-funded “Hero” project with colleagues in Birmingham
 and Durham; and McEvoy’s project funded by the Irish Department of Foreign Affairs in
 collaboration with University College Dublin. Vij’s work on Precarity and IR has included
 collaborative roundtables at BISA, ISA and an edited volume with international colleagues (co-
 edited with scholars at Cardiff University and George Southern University, US). PIR’s
 collaboration with international institutions has included several important scholarly exchange
 programmes and visiting fellowships. Smith was awarded the prestigious Robert Schuman
 Centre for Advanced Studies Fellowship at the European Union Institute, Florence, Italy (Spring
 2018). Teti was ACCESS Europe Visiting Fellowship, University of Amsterdam and Free
 University of Amsterdam (2015-16); Visiting Professor, University of Ghent (2018); Visiting
 scholar, University of Cagliari (Italy) and GramsciLab (November 2018).

     (ii)   Collaboration with Research Users
 The Department has made considerable effort to engage with researchers and wider audiences
 over the assessment period and we see this area as an opportunity for further growth in the
 years ahead. All our research projects have sought to implement mechanisms for user
 engagement with a view to delivering impact. We see these non-academic collaborations as
 offering important potential for our ongoing research strategy.

 Some of our collaboration with research users relates to work on public policy and constitutional
 politics. Keating, in addition to his work described in the ICS, has engaged with international
 public officials on questions of sovereignty and referendums (the Directorate for Foreign Affairs,
 Basque Government; delegates from Papua New Guinea and Bougainville; the Minister for
 Intergovernmental Affairs, Quebec; a delegation of the US Department of State in Edinburgh).
 Keating’s user engagement has included written and oral evidence to parliamentary committees
 on 48 occasions and 160 talks throughout the UK and in Canada, France, Ireland, Italy, Norway
 and Spain. Drawing on ESRC-funded research Delivering Renewable Energy Under Devolution,
 Toke has engaged with policymakers in Scotland on renewable energy policy debates in the
 context of constitutional debate and the 2014 independence referendum. This work included
 dissemination of policy reports; meetings with UK and Scottish government officials and
 evidence presented to the Scottish Parliament’s Economy Energy and Tourism Select
 Committee. Toke chaired a conference in 2019 “Powering Offshore Oil and Gas with Marine
 Renewables” in collaboration with a coalition of non-government organisations and small and
 medium sized enterprises. Bennie provided written evidence and presented to the Scottish
 Parliament Local Government and Communities Committee (2016) on how to encourage voting
 in Scottish local government elections. Paget co-authored an internal report for the UK
 Department for International Development (DFID) and the FCDO on political parties in Tanzania
 after the 2015 general election. Examples of our policy engagement with think-tanks include
 Bennie’s briefing paper to the European Centre for International Affairs on the Scottish
 independence referendum.

     (iii)   Contributions to the Research Base and the Discipline
 PIR is committed to enhancing the research base and the vibrancy of our discipline. Our strategy
 has been to work to sustain the health of the discipline in addressing the problems facing our
 ever complex and interconnected social and political worlds. Supporting the research base, PIR
 staff hold editorships and memberships of editorial boards of important journals and outlets in
 the discipline: Smith, Journal of European Public Policy, Contemporary Security Policy,
 European Security; Bain, “Lexington Series on Cuba” co-editor, Lexington Books; Keating,
 Territory, Politics, Governance; Regional and Federal Studies; West European Politics;
 European Urban and Regional Studies; Bennie, British Journal of Politics and International
 Relations; Teti, Middle East Critique; Vij, Philosophy and Global Affairs; Globalizations;
 Alternatives: Global, Local, Political; Danilova, The Journal of Power Institutions in Post-Soviet
 Societies; and Xypolia, Journal of Global Faultlines. Staff invest time in supporting and training
 new entrants to the discipline via external service commitments. For example, Thomas has
 been an instructor at the ECPR Winter School in Methods and Techniques and the ECPR Virtual
 Summer School, is a Co-chair of the ECPR Standing Group on Political Methodology and a
 Board Member of the European Survey Research Association. Bennie has been a member of

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Awards Committee for the inaugural ECR Publication Prize for the APSA (American Political
 Science Association) Political Organisations and Participation Research Group.

 PIR has secured important disciplinary recognition and awards. Keating was awarded the
 Senior ESRC Fellowship on the Future of the UK and Scotland; is Chair of the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh Social Science Section (2019-), a member of the Council of the British Academy
 (2015-18) and a member of the Advisory Board, ESRC UK in a Changing Europe programme
 (2017-). Teti was elected to the Governing Council of the British Society for Middle East Studies
 (2019-). May was recipient of the Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship and Harvey secured a
 Fulbright Fellowship 2020-2021 to research and teach on UK and US politics at Villanova
 University, Philadelphia. Smith’s work was awarded the Most Downloaded Article of the Year in
 the Journal of European Public Policy.

 PIR staff regularly give invited keynote speeches, lectures and undertake conference chair roles.
 Bain has participated in workshops and conferences at Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada;
 the Institute for the Study of Strategic Regions and Ibero-American Centre of the Charles
 University in Prague; Cuba en la Política Exterior de los Estados Unidos de América in Havana,
 Cuba; and Estados Unidos y Mexico at El Colegio de Mexico. Smith has given a series of
 keynote lectures, including at the Belgrade Security Forum, the Centre for European Policy
 Studies, Brussels; and the EUI and Athens Security Forum. Teti was invited speaker at
 numerous UK and international institutions including the American University in Cairo,
 Amsterdam University, EUI, Lund University and Oxford. Danilova was panel chair of an AHRC-
 funded conference at the Royal Geographical Society and at a workshop at the National Portrait
 Gallery of Scotland. Harvey gave talks on constitutional referendums at the University of Tallinn
 and the University of Vilnius and presentations on the Scottish independence referendum at
 secondary schools and town halls in Aberdeen City and Aberdeenshire.

 PIR staff regularly contribute to national and international print and broadcast media. Our
 contributions to media on constitutional politics in the UK and beyond, the Scottish
 independence referendum and Brexit are particularly extensive: Keating has held 540 media
 interviews since 2013 in English, French, Italian and Spanish. Bennie has contributed to
 Newsnight Scotland, BBC Radio Scotland, BBC Radio 5 Live, The Guardian, Economist, New
 Left Review and participated in an expert panel for the Sunday Mail/Daily Record on the UK
 general election 2019. Bennie’s media engagement on Brexit and UK politics has extended to
 outlets in France (Le Monde, Mediapart), Germany (Junge Welt), Canada (The Globe and Mail)
 and Mexico (El Universal); Harvey has held interviews with The Herald, BBC Radio Scotland,
 BBC World News, The Irish Times, Wall Street Journal, ABC Radio (Australia), El Mercurio
 (Chile) and La Razon (Spain). Bain has had extensive media engagement on constitutional
 politics in Cuba and Cuban-Russian relations: BBC Radio Scotland; BBC Scotland Television;
 Radio Voice Moscow; PowerFM, South Africa; and The Globe Post. Teti has made more than a
 hundred contributions to media over the REF cycle on Middle East politics with outlets including
 BBC TV/Radio, Al Jazeera, ABC Australia, Deutsche Welle and the Italian state broadcaster.
 Contributions to press have included Newsweek (US) and daily newspapers in Italy and Egypt.
 Paget regularly contributes to media on politics in Tanzania including Bloomberg, Deutsche
 Welt, Al Jazeera, the BBC and the New York Times. Bentley has commented on political
 apology with TRT World (TV) and Talk Radio. Xypolia regularly contributes to media on Turkey,
 Cyprus and Middle East politics (Jerusalem Post, Sputnik UK, BBC, Greek and Cypriot press).
 Colleagues also regularly contribute to blogs, from the School of Social Science blog to The
 Conversation, the Centre on Constitutional Change, LSE blog and the Political Studies
 Association blog.

 Moving ahead as a growing department in PIR, we look forward to integrating colleagues who
 have joined the Department in recent years, consolidating our achievements and further building
 our research culture. We will continue to develop our traditional research strengths while
 embracing new, innovative research agendas. Colleagues in our four research themes will take
 forward the plans set out in our research and impact strategy, focusing on growing our external
 grant portfolio, enhancing collaboration with academic and non-academic partners in ways that

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 deliver impact and supporting staff across the various levels of seniority. As a medium-sized,
 ambitious and thriving Department, our next phase will be focused on ensuring that PIR
 continues to deliver research excellence, driving our intellectual environment for high quality
 outputs and research user engagement.




                                                                                            Page 13
