Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University
 Unit of Assessment: UOA 11 Computing Science and Informatics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Overview
 UoA11 at Newcastle University (NU) is based in the School of Computing (Faculty of Science,
 Agriculture and Engineering) – the current embodiment of over 60 continuous years of computer
 science and informatics research at NU. The period since 2014 has been characterised by
 investment and growth in research, focused on areas of strong business, societal or human
 interest. This is founded on a culture of engagement with the beneficiaries of our research, and
 an increasingly multi-disciplinary approach in technical, biological, human and social systems.

 The institutional importance of Computing was highlighted in 2017 when NU invested £58M (out
 of the total £90+ million investment over the review period) in a new building designed to meet
 the needs of a growing, ambitious, 21st century School of Computing. The Urban Sciences
 Building (USB) is now the working home of 45 academics on Teaching & Research contracts, 15
 academics on Teaching & Scholarship contracts, 69 Research-only staff, 164 PhD students and
 over 1300 students on taught programmes. It incorporates almost all teaching and research in
 Computing and was designed to make research more visible to students at all levels: this was
 hard to achieve in the former dispersed and “vertical” accommodation. Crucially, relocating to
 the £350M “Newcastle Helix” site created adjacency with spaces for tech businesses in
 Newcastle, including IBM Red Hat and AkzoNobel. It also provided a home for the new EPSRC
 National Innovation Centre for Data (NICD), created as an organisation and location, which has
 already attracted the Alan Turing Institute (ATI) and Dstl.

 Compared to REF2014, our return increased from 27.5 FTE (Full Time Equivalent) appointments
 to 49.8 FTE. Of 48 full-time staff submitted now, 32 are new appointees. As 10 of these new
 appointees were Early Career Researchers (ECRs), a significant mentoring and support effort
 has been provided by established staff to sustain our project portfolio and PhD completion rates.
 The risks associated with rapid growth and relocation of UoA11 were addressed through a
 comprehensive review of our research group structure. This consolidated model-based research
 - previously split between two groups - in the Advanced Model-Based Engineering and
 Reasoning (AMBER) group, and also identified a distinctive new interest in systems engineering
 research – accelerated by recent appointments – and so created the Networked and Ubiquitous
 Systems Engineering (NUSE) group in 2019.

 b. Research and impact strategy
 UoA11 research and impact strategy is designed and led by a Research Committee with leading
 members from all groups, as well as school leadership and professional services. Several
 members of the committee also sit on the School of Computing executive board. Alignment to
 university strategy and coordination of cross-disciplinary opportunities come via equivalent
 faculty-level and university-level groups. All these committees have members with a brief for
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) concerns, and routinely address EDI issues related to
 research and impact.

 Our overall vision for research and innovation has remained aligned with that articulated in
 REF2014 - ‘to be a world-leading centre for fundamental and rigorous computing science
 research that is stimulated, informed and evaluated by application in areas of importance to
 industry and society’ – and our strategic decisions are aligned with the NU’s ‘Vision & Strategy’
 launched in 2018. They are based on the pillars of excellence, creativity and impact, and guided
 by the principles of working together, visible leadership, freedom and opportunity to succeed,
 and response to current and future challenges.

 Our strategic approach to research has been to grow both research power (i.e. capacity) and
 intensivity (i.e. resources) sustainably. Investments have been made in areas of research
 strength that lead to business and societal impacts, and the opportunity for impact is increased


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by working in ways that promote collaboration within the unit, across disciplines, and with wider
 business and society.

 Our approach to growing capacity has been to build and maintain critical mass through
 sustainable research group structures that give staff and students a shared research ethos. We
 have invested in researchers’ and groups’ development by providing staff, PhD studentships and
 facilities. Examples include:
     • support for Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and Doctoral Training Partnerships
          (DTPs) to foster the development of research skills in areas of sustained demand, both
          within and outside academia;
     • creation of academic FTEs in areas of research promise that build on our existing
          strengths (e.g., cyber-physical systems (CPS), interaction design, secure and resilient
          computing, and Internet of Things (IoT));
     • investment in five career research fellowships which predated the institution-wide NU
          Academic Track (NUAcT) scheme and was guided by our EDI strategy; and
     • investment in staff development relevant to research, following the Concordat to Support
          the Development of Researchers and Vitae Researcher Development Framework.

 Our approach to growing resources has focused on investments that create opportunities for
 collaboration, interaction and cross-disciplinary working. Examples include:
     • the design of our new home in the USB building;
     • investment in the microbiology and DNA/RNA nanotechnology laboratory;
     • partnership in the Alan Turing Institute;
     • support for our two RCUK Doctoral Training Centres;
     • the Newcastle Data initiative; and
     • the National Innovation Centre for Data.

 Our strategic approach to impact aims to integrate impact systematically in all stages of
 research. The approach is:
    • user-centric in that it encourages development of deep relationships with key users, e.g.,
        Dialog Semiconductor in UoA11_Workcraft Impact Case Study (ICS);
    • open by encouraging commitment to open systems, platforms, tool development and
        standards, e.g., W3C standard for provenance in UoA11_PROV ICS, and where
        possible, making research data and publications open access;
    • collaborative using institutional vehicles to foster multidisciplinary research, e.g., Centre
        for Synthetic Biology and Bioexploitation; and
    • agile in supporting flexibility to pursue opportunities for impact, e.g., Rodin Tools spinout
        in UoA11_Railway ICS.

 We strive to build up areas of impactful research systematically, e.g., two of our REF2021 ICSs
 (UoA11_Workcraft and UoA11_Railway) emerged from our long-term engagement in the design
 of asynchronous hardware (ICS4@REF2014) and validation of safety-critical systems
 (ICS2@REF2014). We also provide internal funding (~£30K annually) for impact-oriented
 activities in early stages of development, which supports new interactions with potential user
 groups and rapid prototyping based on new research concepts. In particular, we used the
 internal funding to develop our UoA11_PROV ICS. The long-lasting impact that results from this
 approach is illustrated by our continuation ICS, UoA11_Redhat.

 Current position with reference to REF2014
 During the review period, we pursued the agenda that we set in REF2014, while responding to
 technological and research developments such as the growth in scalable data systems. We
 have achieved a majority of aims and objectives from our REF2014 agenda (some were revised
 or extended due to the changes in staffing). Also, thanks to an overall growth in staffing, new
 research areas emerged (e.g., IoT) and existing areas benefited from strategic investment (e.g.,
 CPS). Highlights include:


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   We responded to the opportunities created by the tremendous growth in scalable data
        systems and data science (especially machine learning (ML)) by investing in new posts
        at all academic levels. This allowed us to lead first the NU Digital Institute, and now
        Newcastle Data, which focus on transforming NU’s research and its social impact
        through multi-disciplinary research. In 2017, UoA11 led the successful institutional bid to
        become a partner in the Alan Turing Institute (ATI). We were also awarded £30M to host
        the National Innovation Centre for Data (NICD) that addresses the acute skill shortage
        preventing organisations from exploiting the potential of the vast volumes of data now
        available to them. Close collaboration with UoA10 led to the award of EPSRC CDT in
        Cloud Computing for Big Data aimed at forming future leaders in data analytics with the
        rare combination of skills in scalable computing and statistics.
    •   The area of interaction design and ubiquitous computing involves tackling challenges that
        must be approached from human-centred perspective. We were a pioneer in the
        development of Digital Civics aimed at collaborative technologies to support citizens’
        civic engagement and empowerment in the commissioning, delivery and evaluation of
        digital services. Our research proceeded within an EPSRC Digital Economy Research
        Centre and EPSRC CDT in Digital Civics and will now continue in the recently awarded
        Next Stage Digital Economy Centre: Centre for Digital Citizens.
    •   In the area of security and computer systems resilience, we have built on our founding
        membership of the NCSC/EPSRC Research Institute in Sociotechnical Cyber Security.
        We expanded into application areas in CPS and IoT through membership of the EPSRC
        PETRAS consortium in IoT, the Active Building Centre and collaborations with the
        national Centre for Energy Systems Integration based in Newcastle. Our researchers
        received numerous research grants, including two ERC starting grants. Throughout
        REF2021 period, our work has been supported by the NCSC Academic Centre of
        Excellence in Cyber Security Research status awarded to NU.
    •   A significant investment in our computational biology research at the beginning of the
        REF2021 period resulted in a premier computational biology group positioned within a
        UK computer science department - the only one to have both a microbiology and
        nanotechnology wet lab, including an intelligent biofoundry.
    •   We invested in ECR academic staff in the areas of CPS and the IoT, and maintained
        close collaboration with industry, which led to the transfer of our foundational results in
        formal methods and tool development to the areas of power management of integrated
        circuits and rail safety systems reported in two ICSs.
    •   We published 1140 journal articles, over 1850 conference and workshop papers, and
        over 210 book chapters. We also authored and edited over 110 books and contributed to
        28 patents.

 Strategic goals and plans
 Our vision for UoA11 at NU requires a research environment that fosters discovery and impact.
 Our strategic approach is to equip all staff and students with the skills, resources and freedom to
 succeed in their current academic research and external (commercial and public) endeavours,
 as well as to foster new partnerships and collaborations with industry, business, external
 agencies and other disciplines within NU.

 In the next 5 years, we will prioritise support for external collaboration, dissemination and impact.
 Aiming at further growth of international recognition of our research, we will provide resources
 and environment for: organisation of leading international conferences; visits by esteemed
 scientists; and sabbaticals in leading research organisations. We will also encourage and reward
 engagement in external advisory boards, conference steering and programme committees, and
 editorial boards. We will support our existing and emerging areas of research excellence and
 leadership, by including goal-oriented protected time in workload allocation and funding
 resources.

 We will continue to support the engagement of research groups and individual staff and students
 in multi-disciplinary research related to national and global challenges (e.g., over 15 current
 impact cases). We will refresh our strategic advisory board with industry, scientific and public

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sector representation, with the aim of developing new project streams such as strengthened
 participation in Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) schemes. We will maintain already strong
 links with companies that have played significant roles in our ICSs (e.g., Dialog Semiconductor
 and Red Hat) but will also develop joint research themes with institutional strategic partners
 including Siemens and Procter & Gamble.

 We will lead work to establish two new NU Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs) in
 Autonomous Systems and Cyber Security, and will target the NUAcT scheme with concerted
 discipline-oriented recruitment campaign. To further encourage diversity in our PhD cohort, we
 will set up a new funding scheme for the best international students to complement the top-
 quality UK students recruited via CDTs.

 To ensure sustainability, we will grow the research community through extensive recruitment
 campaigns for new research-active colleagues. This will reduce our student staff ratio, which
 rose by 30% in the School of Computing over the review period due to highly attractive courses
 and successful recruitment. Alongside a proactive approach to promotions, we will prioritise
 senior appointments (staff returned in REF2014 included 40% full-time Professors compared to
 the current 23%). We are always working on improving our recruitment processes, in terms of
 how we reach potential colleagues and how we undertake recruitment.

 We will maintain a culture of good practice in research following NU’s code of practice, which
 includes promoting integrity and honesty during preparation, and peer review of research
 outputs. Ethical considerations underpin all our research, e.g., the proposal approval process will
 carefully review all ethical issues according to NU’s policies and procedures.

 Group research profiles, achievements and plans
 The main driving forces behind our research are groups which set their own research strategy -
 developed in agreement with and facilitated by the School, ensuring consistency with NU’s
 strategy and values - and provide support for delivery of research outcomes, training of research
 students and collaboration with industry. There is also a strong ethos of cross-group working,
 e.g., DERC (EP/M023001/1) involved researchers coming from 3 of our research groups.

 Below we highlight research profiles, advances made during the review period, and plans related
 to the six UoA11 research groups providing an organisational framework for staff on Teaching &
 Research and Research-only contracts. Staff on Teaching & Scholarship contracts undertake
 research-related activities - including involvement in research student supervision - within the
 Educational Practice in Computing (EPiC) group, often in collaboration with or as members of
 the other groups. We also list returned staff for whom a group was the primary one over the
 review period, and indicate group (co-)leads.

    •   Advanced Model-Based Engineering and Reasoning (AMBER)
        Bogomolov, Fitzgerald, Harrison, Jones, Freitas, Koutny, Khomenko, Pierce, Pietkiewicz-
        Koutny, Soudjani, Steggles

 The AMBER group’s research aims to realise the potential of formal models, methods and tools
 in engineering challenging types of system, particularly those that are concurrent, asynchronous
 or cyber-physical. A feature of the group, reflected in the range of collaborations and projects, is
 the extent to which it combines foundational work that extends the capabilities of formalisms with
 collaborative projects that assess and improve their applicability with user communities in
 industry.

 The group’s foundational work covers the semantics and correctness of concurrent, hybrid and
 probabilistic systems, e.g., developing models of causal relationships capturing simultaneity and
 mutual exclusion, synthesis methods for globally asynchronous locally synchronous systems,
 verification for complex biological networks, and formal methods based on modularity,
 separation logic, and rely-guarantee thinking as well as verification over hybrid and probabilistic
 temporal specifications.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Work towards industry deployment focuses on providing multi-disciplinary engineering teams
 with modelling, analytic and simulation support to achieve better performing and more resilient
 designs, including those that combine semantically diverse design models owned by multiple
 stakeholders, as in CPS and systems-of-systems. AMBER’s strategy is to embed research
 outputs in sufficiently robust tools to achieve industry evaluation, e.g., the Workcraft tool
 embodies work on a range of interpreted graph models, and work on co-simulation of multiple
 diverse CPS models is embedded in the INTO-CPS tool chain.

 Responding to the increasingly heterogeneous character of computing systems (and hence
 models) the group sought to attract new staff to grow capabilities in probabilistic/stochastic and
 hybrid system models. The group also sought to develop facilities such as the MindSphere Lab
 created with Siemens as a focus for work with PhD students in CPS. The group sought funding
 from diverse sources to support its strategy, notably EC FP7 and Horizon 2020 (COMPASS,
 INTO-CPS, CPSE-Labs and HUBCAP), and direct industry funding (Dialog Semiconductor). The
 group was also active in helping to set the European research agenda in CPS (projects
 TAMS4CPS and Road2CPS).

 We maintain extensive international academic collaborations, several on a strategic basis,
 leading to joint publications and projects, notably with Leiden and Aarhus Universities (between
 them contributing over 40 research outputs since 2014). We also maintained collaboration with
 industry, including Siemens (MindSphere), analysing systems interdependencies using a digital
 twin (Centre for Digital Built Britain), Digital Twins for Resilient Geo-Infrastructure, DECIDe for
 Rail Systems and Safety Board, and Royston Company on new AI techniques in maritime
 context.

 AMBER’s focus on the “pipeline” from foundations to industry practice has been vindicated
 through several advances including:
     • Work on asynchronous circuit design implemented in Workcraft was adopted by Dialog
        Semiconductor (exclusive supplier of power management integrated circuits for the Apple
        iPhone, iPad, and Watch), providing the basis of UoA_Workcraft ICS. Dialog funded 2
        PhDs and 2 US patents, and David Lloyd, a Senior Member of Technical Staff at Dialog,
        became a Visiting Professor of Practice in the School of Computing to provide close and
        regular contact with AMBER.
     • The recently established spinout ScubaTx resulting from collaborative efforts with NU’s
        medical researchers and Newcastle Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust leverages
        AMBER’s expertise in verified software design to commercialise persufflation - a proven
        but unexploited organ preservation technique.
     • Work on CPS, including probabilistic and stochastic aspects, e.g., simulation of big bleed
        trauma emergencies with Royal London Hospital, NIDUS (dialysis machine capable of
        infant dialysis) achieving CE marking and commercialisation with Newcastle’s Royal
        Victoria Infirmary (RVI), and EMV2 security analysis of EMV contactless credit and debit
        cards.

 Over the next 5 years, the group plans to develop its international profile in formal model-based
 methods for asynchronous and cyber-physical systems. It will continue to focus on foundational
 work that has impact through tools and methods, using this to attract and retain expertise in
 stochastic and hybrid systems modelling and verification. It will focus on novel technologies for
 design of asynchronous circuits and development of well-founded tool chains for the engineering
 of digital twins for CPS. Application foci under active development include methodologies and
 tools for supporting criminal investigations based on causality, and on the opportunities created
 by the rise of model-based engineering in infrastructure and the built environment.

    •   Interdisciplinary Computing and Complex BioSystems (ICOS)
        Bacardit, Bauer, Goni-Moreno, Fellermann, Kaiser, Krasnogor, Lord, Taylor, Wang,
        Wipat, Zuliani


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ICOS is the premier computational biology group within a UK Computer Science department and
 the only one to have both a microbiology and nanotechnology wet labs, including an intelligent
 biofoundry. Our mission is to carry out ground breaking research at the interface of computing
 science and complex biological systems, creating the next generation of algorithms that provide
 innovative solutions to problems arising in natural complex systems (e.g., Biology, Chemistry,
 and Physics) as well as synthetic ones (e.g., Biological/Software Engineering and Healthcare).
 ICOS substantially expanded during the review period, reaching a steady state of 50-60
 members coming from a range of disciplines (e.g., Computing Science, Engineering, Physics,
 Chemistry, Biology, and Social Sciences) and including approx. 25 RAs and 25 PhDs.

 In the review period, the growth and high-quality output of ICOS were enabled by substantial
 external funding, including £7.5M (£4.7M from EPSRC, £1.5M from NU, and £1.3M from
 industry) EPSRC Programme Grant with an additional £2M funding from NU for microbiology
 and DNA/RNA nanotechnology laboratory as well as various Innovate UK KTPs, H2020 projects
 and a RAEng Chair in Emerging Technologies for Krasnogor (one of only two such awards in
 NU).

 ICOS regularly collaborates with other NU schools, e.g., the above Programme Grant involves
 six different groups and all three of NU’s Faculties. In addition to state-of-the-art synthetic
 biology, ICOS members conduct internationally leading research on neuroinformatics, e.g., in
 2020 Kaiser published in MIT Press a foundational book on brain connectomics.

 ICOS is part of a strong network of leading international collaborating institutions including
 universities, companies and research laboratories, including BBN, Boston University, Utah
 University, Kobe University, NUS, Procter & Gamble, Prozomix, GSK, CERN, ECLT, Weizmann
 Institute, Tel Aviv University, Granada University, Centro Nacional de Biotechnologia, SRC,
 Huawei, Sixfold Bio, Nanovery, CPI, and PROIMI. The excellence of ICOS environment has
 helped to generate outputs in high quality and highly interdisciplinary areas that range from stem
 cells and tissue engineering to computer-driven neurological interventions, synthetic biology, and
 DNA/RNA nanotechnology.

 ICOS strategic goal in the next 5 years is to cement further a worldwide technological lead in
 computer-aided biology and computer-aided nanotechnology with the key objective of
 accelerating translation and spinouts for the science produced by the group. The starting point
 for achieving this is very strong, building on Krasnogor‘s 10 year RAEng Chair and Taylor’s 5
 year UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. Moreover, Krasnogor established a software-as-a-service
 venture, Workli, which enables seamless teamwork via user-friendly collaboration pipelines. This
 unique experience enabled mentoring and advising ICOS' RAs and PhD students (e.g., Ding,
 Kozyra, and Sanassy) who then participated in incubators and accelerators programmes such
 as ICURE, SETsquared, Health Innovation, and Entrepreneur First. They established their own
 companies, e.g., Kozyra (Nanovrey, nano-bio-tech), Ding (X-Wow! making digital pathology
 available in third world countries), and Sanassy (Vochlea Music, AI for the creative industries).
 ICOS will build on this experience and with the help of NU’s business development unit convert
 its internationally leading research outputs into commercial opportunities.

    •   Networked and Ubiquitous Systems Engineering (NUSE)
        Davison, Morgan, Puthal, Solaiman, Ranjan, Ushaw

 The group, newly created in 2019, is building a global reputation for leading research in
 distributed systems, working on emergent paradigms including IoT and Game Engineering.
 Contributions to distributed system security and dependability include the development of a
 novel hybrid smart contract (on and off-blockchain, in collaboration with Cambridge University)
 architecture for monitoring and enforcing contracted interactions in distributed applications such
 as IoT. The group’s work with the global video games industry includes carrying out over 15
 industry-based projects a year on commercial games that have generated £5B revenue. The
 group builds on a foundation of excellent research (e.g., the 2020 Stanford University


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bibliometric study in distributed computing positioned Ranjan as a highly cited author, at #6 in
 2019 when 46% of his journal articles were co-authored with NUSE members).

 Working with NU’s Urban Observatory co-located in the USB (which shows how improvements
 in the research environment have facilitated new highly productive collaborations), the group
 made significant advancements in open source technologies (IoTSim-Edge, IoTSim-Stream,
 BigDataSDNSim, and IoTSim-Osmosis) enabling the creation, simulation and testing of scalable
 computing environments as well as supporting the rapid development of IoT and Big Data
 analytics applications. IoTSim-X technologies leverage CloudSim (invented by Ranjan who
 continues to maintain its code base) as the baseline simulation framework and one of the world’s
 most adopted Cloud Computing simulators (with nearly 3000 citations a key publication on
 CloudSim is the fifth most cited (Scopus, top 0.007%) of 78,864 papers published in Distributed
 Systems between 1960 and 2020).

 Successful collaboration with NU’s Schools of Engineering and Business resulted in four major
 UKRI research grants with combined funding over £6M that build on the group’s advances in
 developing analytical methods and software systems for processing the “big data” generated by
 IoT infrastructures that address societal challenges (e.g., flooding, landslide, air quality, and
 GDPR compliance). For example, IEEE TPDS selected our paper on remote sensing
 applications in Digital Earth as the ‘Spotlight Paper’. Also, our collaborative G-Hadoop paper
 was selected as ‘high quality research paper’ by Future Generation Computing Systems to
 celebrate the Chinese Computer Science research landscape in 2012-2017. G-Hadoop
 successfully integrated, managed, and processed 2.36PB of remote sensing data across 8
 satellite data centres. G-Hadoop holds the current world record for remote sensing “big data”
 management and processing.

 NUSE has collaborated with medical professionals on diagnosis of eye disorders (Health
 Innovation Challenge Fund). Working with NU’s Biomedical Engineering, we pioneered the use
 of artificial intelligence combined with image analysis to demonstrate how robotic prosthetic
 limbs can grab and hold items without human control. Recent collaborations with NU’s Civil
 Engineering applies our real-time simulation expertise to aid in managing water security in
 developing nations while utilising gamification to spread knowledge and know-how across
 partner organisations (UKRI GCRF Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub).

 NUSE will continue to pioneer the fundamental resource and data management principles for
 orchestrating cross disciplinary (e.g., smart cities, healthcare, and industry4.0) IoT application
 workflows. The group will investigate new theoretical models to address performance modelling,
 workload modelling, and data fusion in the context of orchestrating IoT workflows in a hybrid
 environment with both cloud and edge data centres. We plan to strengthen collaboration with the
 NHS on blockchain storage technologies for managing personal healthcare data generated by
 IoT technologies such as wearables. We will continue repurposing projects developed in
 collaboration with the video games industry into other settings, employing our recently
 developed streamed gaming platform to effect global-scale interactive simulations. With industry
 partners and NU’s School of Engineering, we will seek to create highly precise simulations for
 river erosion, autonomous flight navigation, and carbon-neutral landscape.

    •   Open Lab (OL)
        Bowen, Clarke, Crivellaro, Durrant, Guan, Kharrufa, Kirk, Smeddinck, Vlachokyriakos

 Open Lab is an Interaction Design and Collaborative Technologies research group with specific
 expertise in Human-Centred Design and Ubiquitous Computing. The group has a world leading
 reputation for pioneering and developing the subfield of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)
 known as Digital Civics. This area develops digital technologies to support citizen engagement
 and community empowerment, in pursuit of education, health and wellbeing, social care and
 public participation in democratic processes. The strength of our research output is attested to
 by consistently significant output at ACM CHI (the most prestigious dissemination venue for HCI
 research).

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 OL pursues development of theory, methods and technologies, is highly interdisciplinary (both
 within the group and externally) and works with a broad community of partners (over 30 on the
 latest funded project). The partners span government authorities, NGOs, charities (local and
 international), educational organisations, health and social care services (including NHS
 X/Digital), media companies (BBC R&D) and industry (Microsoft, Google, Mozilla), alongside a
 broad network of international academics.

 Since 2014 OL has been supported (as lead) by a £16.6M portfolio of UKRI-funding, including
 CDT in Digital Civics, Digital Economy Research Centre (DERC), the Not Equal Network+, and
 EPSRC Next Stage Digital Economy Centre - the Centre for Digital Citizens (CDC) valued at
 over £8M. The CDC will fund a programme of Innovation Fellowships for post-docs to support
 digital social innovation research using novel participation platforms and data-driven
 technologies with a network of partners and the urban, rural and coastal communities of the
 North East (and internationally).

 An exemplar of our interdisciplinary internal collaborations includes working with MoveLab (NU
 Institute of Cellular Medicine) to collaborate with Oxford University for the UK Biobank Study. OL
 and MoveLab expertise was employed to develop wrist-worn accelerometers used as part of the
 largest ever population assessment of physical activity (100,000+ participants).

 Recent extensive collaborations include the International Federation of the Red Cross/Crescent
 Societies (IFRC) that involved OL developing techniques to drive consultations with more than
 3000 members of the organisation’s youth volunteer-base, directly informing and feeding into the
 IFRC’s Strategy 2030. This was launched in Geneva and further disseminated at that event
 through a bespoke installation of a VR Escape Room experience (311 delegates in 27 national
 teams used it). In 2020 we also built a bespoke web platform for IFRC to host their first global
 Climate Conference to host over 10,000 international delegates to the virtual conference.

 In the next 5 years, the new CDC will pioneer processes of digital social innovation for social and
 environmental sustainability and will act as a catalyst for further research development. To
 achieve this the group will continue to explore design futures and the development of
 collaborative digital platforms using new algorithmic, data-driven and AI technologies to support
 future living and new models of participatory education, health and social care, and local
 democracy. OL will also pursue further challenges in developing digital support for Sustainable
 Development Goals in international contexts and pushing the digital civics agenda towards an
 environmentally focused Sustainable Digital Society agenda. Further to the digital healthcare
 interests, OL will also continue behavioural informatics work to develop new ML techniques for
 activity recognition in pursuit of digitally enabled healthcare interventions, in particular, using
 wearable sensor platforms.

    •   Scalable Computing (SC)
        Ezhilchelvan, Fernstad, Forshaw, Holliman, McGough, Missier, Mitrani, Thomas, Watson

 The group is internationally renowned for tackling research challenges in High Performance
 Systems, Data Science, and ML. During the REF2021 period we focused on growing in key
 areas of Data Science and AI, including data systems performance, data provenance, data
 analytics, data visualization and ML. This included designing and building specialist facilities to
 support our visualization research and innovation.

 Through its leadership, the group has developed a “virtuous circle” that productively links
 research to teaching and engagement in data science resulting in over £100M in external
 funding for NU in the past decade. The importance of the group’s work to NU-wide research
 resulted in the creation of “Newcastle Data (Watson) to co-ordinate, support, grow and promote
 data science across the institution.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The group's reputation in scalable data analytics led to NU being invited to apply to become a
 partner in the Alan Turing Institute (ATI) in 2018. This has provided new funding and
 opportunities, including PhD internships, and collaborations with world-leading researchers
 spread across The Turing's partners. For example, SC (Holliman) leads the Turing visualization
 interest group #VizTIG and (McGough) the TIG developing best practice for collecting cyber
 security data. SC also has active links to research teams in the USA, Australia, Italy, Switzerland
 and Sweden, often supported by overseas research funding.

 Over the review period, SC built strong collaborations with NU's School of Mathematics,
 Statistics and Physics. Key to this was the CDT in Cloud Computing for Big Data, which is now
 supported through investment from NU and our industrial partners, especially Red Hat (IBM).
 The CDT creates future leaders with the rare dual competencies in the statistics and computing
 required to drive forward scalable data analytics. It has successfully brought together a diverse
 range of students, many of whom have had placements at companies as far away as California
 (Twitter) and Australia (Woodside). We recently established an expanding portfolio of spin-off
 MSc programmes (OfS funded) in Data Science to fill the long-term research and innovation
 pipeline with a diverse set of high-achieving students.

 The group’s work is also driven by collaborations with those who apply our research outputs to
 transform their own data-rich research fields. We use these applications to challenge our
 methods, inspire new approaches, and provide a means to evaluate their utility. Healthcare and
 Urban Analytics, with recent expansion into security and defence, have been particularly
 productive areas, and our tools now underpin large research projects. A spin-off of this activity is
 the RSE (Research Software Engineering) team as a NU facility (engaged in 32 NU research
 projects in 2020). The establishment of a Turing Dstl Applied Research Centre (ARC) at
 Newcastle is one further outcome of the collaborative approach developed during the REF2021
 period.

 Many of our projects involve industry and over the past 6 years NU has set up major initiatives to
 engage at scale with companies that lack their own data analytics skills. Among these, NICD
 provides a route for SC to have a major impact on tens of public and private sector organisations
 each year through collaborative projects. The new Catalyst building - a melting pot of
 academics, students and industry working on data driven innovation - provides spaces designed
 by the group for interaction with industry (e.g., IBM Red Hat) and includes state-of-the-art
 visualisation facilities, e.g., the Team Decision Theatre.

 Our research plans are focused on designing new methods for large-scale data analytics such
 as a novel visualization method - Missingness Glyph - for analysing and exploring missing
 values in data, generating impact by transferring the knowledge this generates to industry
 through NICD, and producing the future Data Science leaders through the CDT and MSc
 programmes. We will also develop a key new strength in image informatics through the
 appointment of a joint chair with the Faculty of Medical Sciences.

    •   Secure and Resilient Systems (SRS)
        Coopamootoo, Dong, Gross, Mace, Maxion, Mehrnezhad, Morisset, Randell,
        Romanovsky, van Moorsel

 The group is recognised internationally for its research contributions to creating modern
 information systems, networks and infrastructures that are dependable and secure. The group
 extensively collaborates with psychologists, engineers, mathematicians, industry partners,
 standardisation bodies, and users of systems. In the review period, to inform and lead novel
 work on evidence-based methods in Cyber Security research, the group brought expertise in
 from CMU (Maxion).

 NU became a NCSC Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research in 2012 and
 has maintained this status throughout REF2021 period. The centre provides a strong
 interdisciplinary research environment for the group, including researchers in engineering,

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 business, medical and social sciences and law. The group publishes routinely in the main
 venues for Cyber Security and Resilience, including ACM CCS, IEEE TDSC, and USENIX
 Security, and has achieved a number of important funding successes detailed below. The group
 also has been awarded two ERC grants (Hao and Gross), dealing with the important challenges
 of online voting without central authorities and security assurance of evolving network
 topologies.

 An important strand of research achievements is in human factors of Cyber Security, including
 both qualitative and quantitative elements. UoA11 was a founding member of the NCSC/EPSRC
 Research Institute for Sociotechnical Cyber Security (RISC). The group continues to be active in
 RISCS, including through a role in the advisory board. Important milestones include the
 establishment of the SCENE design framework for behavioural nudges in Cyber Security, the
 developments in keystroke dynamics, and analysing and improving evidence-based methods.

 A second important set of achievements is in security and privacy of IoT, where the group
 established NU as a full member of PETRAS. The work in smart systems, and particularly in
 smart buildings (also supported by the Active Building project), leverages NU’s Urban
 Observatory and the ability to experiment in the USB.

 A third strand that has seen important progress is that of artificial intelligence, be it in terms of
 understanding resilience and security of AI approaches, or the use of AI for improved security or
 privacy. In particular, the group hosts one of only two EPSRC Cloud Crime Centres in the UK,
 which is an interdisciplinary centre exploring the use of ML in Cyber Security, e.g., aimed at
 highly accurate remote inferring of PINs entered on mobile devices. It also is the home of the
 interdisciplinary EPSRC FinTrust project, which has established important outputs in the
 foundations of trusted automated services in collaboration with Atom Bank.

 To support data-driven research, the group has established a secure data vault in the
 University’s data centre, funded through NCSC. The group also has a fully outfitted cyber
 incident room for ethical hacking experimentation and user studies.

 The other strand of SRS research was concerned with system dependability, fault tolerance,
 safety, software architectures, exception handling, error recovery, system verification for safety,
 system structuring, and verification of fault tolerance and safety. A key support in this area was
 provided by the EPSRC STRATA platform grant on Layers for Structuring Trustworthy Ambient
 Systems. Recently, SRS led several projects on formal verification of railway safety supported
 by industry. The focus of this work was to develop scalable and usable industry-strength
 techniques for fully automated verification of signalling and interlocking.

 The group plans to develop and lead a NUCoRE which brings together and promotes security
 and resilience interests across NU. Staffing plans include further diversification (e.g., with
 respect to race and culture) aiming to further strengthen and emphasise the research threads of
 human factors, privacy and security of IoT and smart systems, and security/resilience of AI-
 based systems.

 2. People

 a. Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy aims to create and maintain sustainable research groups while giving
 researchers freedom to pursue new challenges (both speculatively and across disciplinary
 boundaries). We also aim to reinforce areas of special economic and societal importance. For
 example, we expanded the expertise in cloud computing and data analytics with the
 appointments of Forshaw and McGough, created capability in scientific visualization by
 appointing Fernstad and Holliman, and established a critical mass in CPS by appointing
 Bogomolov, Pierce and Soudjani. Our future staffing will make the most of the opportunities for
 collaboration and growth afforded by the new facilities in USB and NICD. We will also leverage
 investment from other units and our involvement in NUCoREs to further multi-disciplinary

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research, exemplified by the chair of image informatics established jointly with Faculty of Medical
 Sciences.

 The vitality of our research environment can be appreciated through several national and
 international senior academic appointments: Andras (Keele University), Balaam (KTH), Comber
 (KTH), Hallinan (Macquarie University), Hao (Warwick University), Montague (Northumbria
 University), Olivier (Monash University), and Ploetz (Georgia Tech).

 To bring fresh research ideas and practices to the unit, we consistently recruited from as wide a
 pool of talent as possible. Among the returned full-time staff, 65% are originally international,
 and of those appointed during the review period, over 60% fall into this category. The
 international dimension of our approach to staffing is further reflected by the range of Visiting
 Scholars, e.g., Joseph Davis (University of Sydney), Ian Hayes (University of Queensland), Jetty
 Kleijn (Leiden University), and Federica Mandreoli (University of Modena).

 The unit is advised on strategic industry challenges by Visiting Professors of Practice: Nick
 Booth (CHC), Mark Little (Red Hat), David Lloyd (Dialog Semiconductors), Tom McCutcheon
 (Dstl), Phil Tetlow (IBM), and Jim Webber (NEO4J).

 Staff development
 The overarching principle guiding staff development is to give each researchers “freedom and
 opportunity to succeed”. NU’s Organisational Development Team manages and co-ordinates
 staff development processes, delivering training aimed at all career stages. During the review
 period, over 170 of our academics and researchers attended over 200 training workshops and
 events, including career-related (78), PI-related (65), research-related (47), EDI-related (18), and
 leadership-related (18). Additional support for research staff development is provided by a
 Career Pathways Framework Programme, which explicitly outlines the range of career pathways
 available, and assists in planning development activities to support their future career
 aspirations.

 Newly appointed staff undertake a comprehensive induction. During the first two years of
 employment, ECRs and new lecturers in particular have their workload carefully shaped to
 ensure that they have the opportunity to establish themselves as successful researchers. A
 group-based mentoring scheme for new research staff at all levels aims to advise, integrate and
 build networks. This has been important in the generation of external fellowships (e.g., EPSRC
 UKRI Innovation Fellowship for Bauer and UKRI Future Leader Fellowship for Taylor). We
 provide all new academics with additional research allocation in the workload model, funding
 (personal allocation for initiatives, travel, and equipment, e.g., Forshaw received funds for a 6-
 month sabbatical at ETH), mentoring, and a first research studentship. The probation process
 typically lasts two years and was successfully completed by over 90% appointees (and by 100%
 female appointees) during the review period.

 All new staff members are introduced to Library facilities, including support for open access
 publishing, research data management, understanding copyright, and creating researcher
 profiles on a variety of platforms to aid research dissemination, discovery and openness. All new
 lecturers (unless they hold an equivalent qualification) undertake the Newcastle Educational
 Practice Scheme (NEPS), which covers research, teaching and management. Also, new
 academic staff receive individual support from the Research Funding Development Manager
 who guides new staff through their “first grant” applications, and who ensures staff benefit from
 internal peer review of research proposals. More experienced staff benefit, e.g., from a six-
 month Principal Investigator Development Programme (attended by, e.g., Mace and Pierce)
 covering the roles and responsibilities of PIs, including project, people and team management.
 Senior staff are supported in developing into leadership roles, e.g., Fitzgerald, Krasnogor, and
 Lord benefited from the Top Management and Academic Leaders Programmes. The AURORA
 Development Programme, attended by Heels and Mehrnezhad, provides leadership training for
 those who identify as female. Access to careers advice, training and development is aligned to


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers and Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework.

 Before applying for grants, all academics are supported by a Research and Funding Facilitator,
 who provides training on writing grant proposals through a group-based Proposal Club and
 directs researchers to relevant funding calls. Researchers submitting proposals are supported by
 designated experienced colleagues who advise on proposals and help to prepare for interviews,
 e.g., by running mock panels. Evidence of the success of these measures is provided by the
 research projects awarded to staff in highly competitive open calls, e.g., Krasnogor’s RAEng
 Chair, Gross’ ERC Starter Grant, Hao’s ERC Proof of Concept Grant, Bauer’s EPSRC UKRI
 Innovation Fellowship, and Taylor’s UKRI Future Leadership Fellowship.

 All staff benefit from an annual appraisal with their line manager as part of the Performance
 Development Review (PDR) process aimed at reviewing the past performance, agreeing current
 objectives/priorities, discussing difficulties and identifying training needs. The PDR process also
 identifies promotion opportunities. During the review period, 4 colleagues progressed to
 professorship, 7 to readership, 9 to senior lectureship, and 7 to lectureship. The overall success
 rate for all promotions was 60% (71% for female colleagues).

 We are committed to supporting the development of staff returning from extended leave. For
 example, Mehrnezhad received funding to organise the SSR’19 conference, and we help
 researchers returning from maternity leave by underwriting their contracts for six months.

 In 2020, following consultation with all staff and being guided by the 2018 Athena Forum report
 on workload allocation models, we re-designed the workload model to better help staff in
 advancing their careers, addressing work-life priorities, and balancing research demands with
 educational, administrative and community service demands. This now provides a full profile of
 contributions to teaching, research, management, and engagement activities with time-
 equivalent tariffs alongside an individual’s employment position and any special circumstances.
 The individual and group profiles help in allocating and balancing workloads as well as enacting
 strategic plans. Supported by the new workload model, we will develop a group-centred
 sabbatical scheme, aimed at doubling the current 10% rate of research sabbaticals and
 focussing on mid-career researchers engaged in impact-oriented activities.

 b. PGR students
 An integral part of the advancement and dissemination of our research vision and culture has
 been an exceptional cohort of PhDs. Being the only Computer Science unit in England running
 two centres awarded in the 2013 EPSRC CDT exercise, during the review period we graduated
 157 successful PhDs (124.88 FTE) achieving 44% growth with three year average increased
 from 19 in 2015 to 27.3 in 2019 (in terms of FTE, 47% growth with three year average 14.4 in
 2015 to 21.9 in 2019). On average, our PhD graduates received 20% of their training from other
 NU units, evidencing our commitment to interdisciplinary research. Extensive interactions with
 other Schools across all three NU Faculties have helped us to redefine the boundaries of a
 Computer Science PhD and the success of our approach to PhD training is exemplified by the
 fact that the CDT in Cloud Computing continues with new recruitment being sponsored by our
 industry partners, many of whom also provide internships, e.g., Brown (Nvidia), Lee (Activision),
 Whinham (Coconut Lizard), Matthews (Jumping Rivers), and Georgopoulos (Ansys).

 Our long-term strategy has been to grow the PhD cohort sustainably, and fully integrate PhDs
 into the life of the unit. We achieve this by treating them as regular members of research groups
 during the time they receive a balanced training and supervision programme. For example, to
 ensure that PhDs are fully embedded into our research community - and following an approach
 piloted in Open Lab - in designing the USB we created workspaces close to and mixed with the
 staff of their research groups. Initial evidence of the success of the approach is seen in the
 recent prizes and awards won by our PhD students that was not the case previously, e.g.,
 10th SPEC Kaivalya Dixit Distinguished Dissertation Award (Alharby and Cooper), ACM SIGCHI
 Distinguished Dissertation Award (Elsden), Young Digital Leaders 100 Award (Talhouk), and

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pathologist Trailbrazers Powerlist 2019 (Ding). The vitality of our PhD environment is further
 evidenced by graduating co-founders and CTOs of start-ups (e.g., Sanassy and Kozyra), and
 new faculty (e.g., Davison, Germanos, Kirkham, Nicholson, Wang, and Zeng).

 All PhD students are encouraged to take an active role in suggesting and promoting
 improvements to the research student experience with the PGR Student Staff Committee. They
 are also invited to participate in the annual Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES),
 organised by the HEA. In the 2019 survey with 44.9% response rate, 90.7% of UoA11
 respondents were satisfied with their experience of research degree programme, 94.6% felt
 better prepared for their future careers, and 93.3% were satisfied with their working environment.

 Monitoring and management
 We provide a high level of support during the period of registration on a PhD programme, as set
 out in a work agreement between the students and supervisors. Every student is allocated at
 least 2 academic supervisors, who work with the student to produce an initial research proposal
 within the first 3 months and then supervise their research. ECRs initially co-supervise with more
 experienced colleagues.

 Following NU’s Code of Practice for Research Degree Programmes, supervisory teams formally
 monitor PhD progress through annual reports. The University provides generic research skills
 training and monitors the number of courses attended. Training credits are awarded for
 completion of these training modules, and a minimum score is needed before students can
 proceed to further years of study. An independent Progression Panel, comprising 2 academic
 staff, assesses the student’s reports and oral/poster presentations, and Dean of Postgraduate
 Studies reviews recommendations externally. Progress is monitored and recorded through an
 online system. Students are able to raise academic or pastoral issues at any time with their
 supervisory team, or independent members of the school PhD team, or outside the School to
 Faculty.

 Recruitment
 We have been proactive in growing our PhD cohort while maintaining quality, despite changes to
 funding regimes. Individual research students are recruited through application in response to
 advertised studentships or, for self-funded students, direct application. To widen access, we
 offer a four-year Integrated PhD programme with specialist MSc-level training and research
 preparation before commencing the PhD. EDI plays a significant role in PGR recruitment, as
 discussed in Section 2.c below.

 To help recruit the best PhD students, we provided a £1.2K annual top-up (or as stipend for an
 additional writing up period) to all PhD scholarships funded in accordance with HEFCE
 guidelines, and matching funds for partial scholarships. In addition, each new PhD student
 receives at least £1K p.a. as research support fund, facilitating travel, publication and additional
 resources. To provide initial support for new staff (in particular ECRs), we directly funded 5 full
 studentships in the review period. We increasingly seek CASE awards (5 during the review
 period), and industry scholarships (e.g., funded by Dialog Semiconductors, Red Hat, Datalytyx,
 Nonovery, and Siemens). Also, we were awarded 9 scholarships as part of the AHRC Creative
 Exchange Knowledge Exchange hub in digital public space.

 Training and supervision
 NU’s policy is to provide at least 10 formal supervisory meetings a year although in practice the
 norm is many more. Academic and research staff working on related topics within the research
 group provide additional support.
 NU offers a comprehensive programme of over 30 skills training courses for research students,
 based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, and including research skills and
 techniques, communication skills, networking and team working, and career management. PhD
 students take part in NU’s Research Student Development Programme in which they broaden
 skills by taking 120 credits of relevant taught modules run by specialist teams. For example,
 NU’s Library provides a blend of face-to-face and online opportunities, e.g., two online modules

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for Finding Information and Managing Information developed in October 2019 (completed by 30
 PhDs). Also, the Writing Development Centre offers guidance to PhDs on developing their
 writing style, reading strategies and approaches to learning as they make the transition from a
 taught environment to independent research, including the “Write Here, Write Now” writers’
 group. The PRES in 2015, 2017 and 2019 found that over 90% of UoA11 PhD students are
 satisfied with library facilities (physical and online).

 c. Supporting and promoting equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 EDI is fully embedded into the operation of the School of Computing. An EDI committee – with
 membership covering all academic career stages and major operating committees - reports to
 the School of Computing’s Executive Board and the Faculty EDI Board as standing items,
 ensuring consistency with the NU’s Equality Strategy. The committee comprises diverse
 membership and is co-chaired by two members of academic staff with experience of both
 research and teaching: one of them (identifying as female) is teaching-focused, and the other
 (identifying as male) is research-focused.

 Computing was granted an Athena Swan Bronze award in 2014 and 2018. In particular, we
 received positive feedback for our involvement in running a research associate network across
 the university to support RA career development. Another commendation was for our Career
 Research Fellow (CRF) scheme created to improve diversity in our academic career pipeline,
 and which led to the appointment of 5 female research fellows. The scheme helps researchers
 establish themselves through a series of targets, with a view to progress to an open-ended
 academic position within 5 years. Compared to REF2014 where 7% of full-time returned
 academics were female, we have now returned 17%.

 When it comes to staff recruitment, we ensure all our job advertisements use gender-neutral
 language and candidates for academic posts are expected to demonstrate their understanding
 of EDI in their applications and during interviews. We aim at a wide dissemination of job
 advertisements, commitment (signposting) to EDI, reasonable application deadlines, and diverse
 selection and interview panels. We are also now piloting selection processes that are intended to
 include a wider range of activities in conjunction with the research groups.

 The School of Computing consults staff and students regularly to ensure that their views are
 considered in decision-making. For example, we organised an anonymous online mechanism for
 raising concerns, suggestions, and support interaction following the outbreak of Covid-19. This
 influenced our approach to communications and resulted in developing a communication
 channel so that parents/carers can share resources and report problems. Another example was
 in the design of the USB spaces. At all levels from concept to detailed design, staff and students
 participated in a programme of workshops with the architects, and were regularly updated on
 construction progress, including site visits. A questionnaire was developed to promote
 suggestions and allow reporting of issues. This resulted in a building that embodies the School’s
 inclusive ethos with a wide range of spaces to accommodate diverse work preferences and
 other needs, e.g., gender-neutral lavatories, and quiet rooms that can be used by breastfeeding
 mothers, or for reflection or prayer, or by those who have disabilities or chronic illnesses and
 need quiet time.

 Another successful initiative is our CDT recruitment. For example, the CDT in Digital Civics has
 used inclusive recruitment strategies and attracted an average of 40% female students since it
 began. The CDT in Cloud Computing implemented initiatives to increase diversity including
 advertising campaigns targeted at minority groups, providing local industrial placements for
 those who cannot travel, and embedding flexibility into the taught programme for those with
 caring responsibilities. As a recognition of our efforts, we were an invited panellist at an EPSRC
 event on increasing diversity that will help influence external institutions on inclusive recruitment
 methods, and Watson serves on the RAEng EDI Committee.

 Diversity is celebrated throughout the School, with members being recognised at university level
 for their efforts (e.g., the Tech Women team in Open Lab won a NU EDI award). The School has

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an extensive list of EDI actions and celebrates social activities such as LGBT history month and
 International Women’s Day.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 During the review period, our research has been enabled and supported by a rich project
 portfolio. The overall research income from 343 funded projects was ~£35M including:
     • 140 Research Councils projects totalling ~£23.6M,
     • 49 EU projects totalling ~£5.5M,
     • 55 UK Government projects totalling ~£2.5,
     • 51 UK charity projects totalling ~£1.6M; and
     • 42 UK industry projects totalling ~£1.1M.
 On average, 30% of the contribution to these projects came from outside UoA11, evidencing our
 commitment to collaborative research. All our research groups benefited from project support
 matching their potential and aspiration: AMBER (£3.6M), ICOS (£10.9M), NUSE (£0.7M), OL
 (£7.7M), SC (£4.2M), and SRS (£7.9M).

 External funding reported above was essential to successful delivery of our research in
 REF2021 period. For example, both Synthetic Portabolomics (EP/N031962/1) and UNCOVER
 (EP/K001698/1) led to 7 submitted outputs, SiDE (EP/G066019/1) to 6 outputs, and Modelling
 Human Brain Development (EP/K026992/1) to 5 outputs.

 We adopted a strategy of diversifying our funding streams while maintaining our research
 council income that remained steady at about 67.5% over the REF2021 period. Because of our
 increasingly multi-disciplinary research, the range of funders has diversified and the proportion
 of research income due to EU and UK Government has reduced as the income from other
 resources has increased (three year average 26.1% in 2015 to 19.2% in 2019), and we have
 seen substantial growth in charity funding (three year average 2.9% in 2015 to 7.6% in 2019)
 and industry funding (three year average 2.6% in 2015 to 4.1% in 2019). We have therefore
 achieved, as planned, a much better balance among the non-RCUK research income streams,
 creating a robust funding structure for the next 5 years and beyond. Moreover, increasing charity
 funding reflected our commitment to solving societal problems and challenges, and increasing
 industry funding reflected our commitment to magnifying the societal impact of our research. A
 key mechanism aimed at securing support for research is the series of events involving industry
 and business community organised by the research groups, NICD, and the Director of Business
 and Engagement.

 In the review period we benefited from NU’s Research Impact Framework awards in digital
 economy (£1.7M), synthetic portabolomics (£1.5M), and big data analytics (£0.1M). We also
 benefitted from significant new investment into strategic infrastructure and facilities, including:
     • USB (£58M from NU). The building - opened in September 2017 at Newcastle Helix - is
         the new location for the School of Computing and a flagship development for urban
         sustainability. It hosts laboratories supporting collaborative research on digital aspects of,
         e.g., sustainability, transport, and energy. In particular, in MindSphere Laboratory we
         share with Siemens our research on the IoT, and in Decision Theatre - an interactive 3D
         facility linked to the Urban Observatory (the largest urban sensing network of its kind in
         the UK) - we develop advanced data visualisation so that policy makers and other
         stakeholders can plan and operate cities sustainably.
     • National Innovation Centre for Data (NICD, £15M from EPSRC and £15M from NU).
         Located in the Catalyst building - opened in January 2020 at Newcastle Helix - builds on
         our world-leading expertise in data science and its application developed over the past
         decade. It is addressing the shortage of data skills in the UK transferring practical data
         skills developed by us into the workforce of private and public sector organisation. NICD
         has already attracted global leaders - Red Hat and AkzoNobel - and it will provide major
         opportunity for generating industry impact following our planned investment in data
         science. NICD has already engaged approx. 5000 representatives from 400
         organisations resulting in 60 workshops and 40 collaborative projects.


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Microbiology and DNA/RNA Nanotechnology Laboratory (£2M from NU). It hosts
        state of the art equipment that includes, in particular, facilities to design and manufacture
        microfluidic devices, an optimal tweezer, DNA sequencing machines, digitally controlled
        bioreactors, an acoustic liquid handling robot, and a video rate Atom Force Microscope.
    •   The Key Building (£10M from NU). It provides engagement and research space for data
        science; in particular, for the growing team in image informatics.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 During the review period we have deliberately fostered cross-disciplinary collaborations through
 two mechanisms. One was to increase the share of our research income coming from charity
 and industry, and the other engagement in Newcastle Data and NUCoREs, such as Data-
 NUCoRE, leading to collaborations crossing established boundaries. This is evidenced by our
 submitted research outputs which describe:
     • collaborations with other disciplines, such as biology, electronic engineering, social
        sciences, medicine, and media;
     • international collaborations on over 61% outputs;
     • collaborations with industry, e.g., GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Illumina Inc., Dialog
        Semiconductor, InlecomSystems, Thales E-Security, and Microsoft Research.

 Each of our groups maintains meaningful collaborative links and holds joint projects with other
 NU units, external academic organisations, and industry partners. We pursue new collaborations
 using flexible individual funds as well as a targeted Impact Fund. Also, research centres such as
 Newcastle Data provide venues for establishing new contacts.

 We actively pursue opportunities to engage business directly with research outcomes. For
 example, we have been partners in two Innovation Actions (CPSELabs and HUBCAP) which
 offered equity-free funds (in the case of HUBCAP, €3M) for model-based design tools providers
 and new users in the CPS arena. This is a vehicle for promoting research outputs in the forms of
 the methods and tools that we have contributed to or developed. In addition, as a digital
 innovation hub we offer businesses access to a network of research expertise in institutes
 across Europe

 Computing education
 We contribute to the sustainability of the discipline at several levels:
   • We are a leading partner in national and regional initiatives to support Computer Science
       as a new school subject, running outreach events for 1000+ primary and secondary
       school pupils each year, and holding an annual conference attended by 120+ teachers.
       Our strong links to local schools inform computing education research in EPiC and Open
       Lab, and we regularly (pre-Covid) hosted visits, workshops and even “science fairs” from
       schools, bringing pupils into a research-rich environment in the USB.
   • We redesigned the UG curriculum deployed in 2019 to increase focus on research,
       professional practice, and impact. For example, we designed and introduced a portfolio-
       oriented curriculum using problem based learning; in Stage 1 students deal with large
       data sets deriving from our bio-research project; a module worth 25% of Stage 2
       introduces activities designed by our research groups; and most student capstone
       projects in Stage 3 are organised by the research groups.
   • 13 specialist MSc programmes closely match the research agenda of our groups, e.g.,
       new programmes in Data Science and in Smart Systems Engineering. All these
       programmes involve significant project work conducted alongside one of the research
       groups.
   • We have been committed to the successful development of the Institute of Coding set up
       to tackle the UK’s digital skills gap (supported by £1M from NU), and the already
       approved Degree Apprenticeship programme, creating programmes in Data Science and
       Cyber Security that are delivered by research-active staff.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Local collaborations
 Now, over 20 projects in our portfolio involve collaboration with other NU units. Exemplars
 include work on asynchronous circuits and integrated energy systems with School of
 Engineering, educational technology with School of Education, Communication, and Languages,
 synthetic portabolomics with Faculty of Medical Sciences, and ethics of AI with the Business
 School. Also, NICD have recently won £1.6M from North of Tyne to transfer data skills to local
 industry.

 National and international collaborations
 Our international academic research collaborations have included: Aabo Akademi, Aarhus
 University, AIST, Australian National University, Bonn University, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
 Chinese University of Geosciences, CMU, Concordia University, CSIRO, ENS Cachan, ETH
 Zurich, Georgia Tech, Leiden University, Luxembourg University, McMaster University, MIT,
 NICTA, Sao Paolo University, TU Wien, Twente University, University of Augsburg, University of
 Illinois Urbana-Champagne, University of Melbourne, University of Messina, University of
 Nantes, University of New South Wales, University of Queensland, University of Sydney, and
 Wuhan University.
 Our national and international industry partners have included: Atom Bank, Bang & Olufsen,
 Bosch, Google, Hewlett Packard, Komatsu, Mozilla Foundation, Microsoft Research, SAP,
 Siemens, Swiss Precision Diagnostics, W3C, and over 30 other companies.

 Collaborations with research users
 Following our approach to research that is inspired by potential impact, we prioritise engagement
 with research users both to guide our research, and to translate its outcomes into industry. We
 have established several designated centres to provide informative outlets for our research, and
 to support events and venues for external interaction. In 2017 the UoA was awarded £30M to
 create NICD which focusses on enabling organisations to extract value from their data. This is
 done through programmes of events, training and joint projects (e.g., 76 “discovery workshops”,
 24 active and 20 completed data skills projects, and £15.3M in 6 successful research proposals
 supported by NICD). NICD builds on the success of the Cloud Innovation Centre (2014-17)
 which had 2000+ attendees at its events and has assisted 200+ companies. UoA11 is also
 heavily involved in the £40M National Innovation Centre for Ageing (NICA), which has a major
 theme in healthcare analytics. Both Innovation Centres will share the £50M Catalyst building that
 has been designed for the purpose (including a high-quality visualization suite).

 Responding to national and international priorities
 Our research staff and students actively responded to the challenges caused by Covid-19, e.g.,
 by applying ML to predict respiratory failure in patients, and by applying 3D printing expertise to
 make more effectively components for splash guard visors which resulted in winning a
 Dynamites 2020 Award. Other examples include developing advanced solutions for combating
 zika and dengue epidemics, and methods to work with Syrian refugees in Lebanon to design
 technologies for food security and community resilience.

 Exemplars of leadership of the UoA within the academic community

 EPSRC College members. Full: Ezhilchelvan, Fitzgerald, Harrison, Koutny, Krasnogor,
 Morisset, Romanovsky, Shrivastava, van Moorsel, Watson, Wright; associate: Bacardit, Gross,
 Holliman, Kaiser, Kirk, Lord, McGough, Missier, Ranjan, Soudjani, Wipat, Zuliani

 UKCRC members. Fitzgerald, Jones, Kaiser, Randell, Romanovsky, Shrivastava, Watson

 Fellowships and adjunct/visiting professorships. Fellow ACM (Jones, Randell); Fellow
 RAEng (Jones, Watson); Fellow FME (Jones); University Minho Braga (Harrison); Seoul
 National University (Kaiser); McMaster University, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Xidian
 University (Koutny); Weizmann Institute (Krasnogor); NII Tokyo (Romanovsky); University
 Balearic Islands (Thomas); University of Sydney (Watson); ANU, University NSW, Julius Fellow
 CSIRO, China University Geosciences (Ranjan)

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Steering committees. FME chair, Theoretical Aspects Computing (Fitzgerald); Engineering ICS
 chair (Harrison); Petri Nets chair (Koutny); ECLT chair, Nature Inspired Cooperative Strategies
 for Optimization (Krasnogor); DILS, TAPP (Missier); ERCIM SERENE (Romanovsky); UK e-
 Science All Hands Foundation chair (Watson); NSV, NSR (Bogomolov); BS Institute
 Fundamental Principles of Automotive Cyber Security (van Moorsel), Epilepsy Foundation
 (Taylor)

 Editorial boards of journals and research monograph series. Applied Logic (Fitzgerald);
 Formal Aspects Computing (Jones); ACM CR (Kaiser); Human Computer Studies (Kirk); editor-
 in-chief Transactions Petri Nets, EATCS Monographs TCS & Texts TCS, Natural Computing,
 Scientific Annals CS (Koutny); Natural Computing (Krasnogor); department-editor IEEE SP (van
 Moorsel); Annals History Computing (Randell); Systems Architecture (Romanovsky); BioIT
 (Wipat); IEEE TBD/CEM, Communication Systems (Puthal); Networks & Computer Applications,
 Software Practice & Experience (Morgan); senior-editor Data Information Quality (Missier);
 PLOS Computational Biology (Taylor); IEEE TCC/TC, ACM CS/TIoT (Ranjan); ACM SIGBED
 (Bogomolov)

 Awards and other forms of international recognition. Jim Gray Award (Watson); BPA
 QEST’18 (Bogomolov); Spotlight Paper IEEE TPDS (5 in total) (Ranjan); CHI’14-18 (1-2 UK and
 4-7 worldwide); Microsoft Academic Top Authors in Cloud Computing, Big Data, QoS, Resource
 Management, and Services Computing (Ranjan); Scopus SciVal 3rd in Cloud Computing,
 Clouds, Distributed Computer Systems (Ranjan, 2010-2019); one of most influential papers in 30
 years of ISSRE (van Moorsel)




                                                                                         Page 18
