Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 20: Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

                                            Unit Context

 We provide world-leading research and impact on social policy challenges facing countries
 around the globe, building on over a century of intellectual innovation and practical applications.
 Our unit is one of the UK’s largest, with 76 eligible staff of whom 48% are women and 14% self-
 declared as from minority ethnic groups. We attract world-class researchers and aim to retain
 and promote them, cultivating a creative and inclusive environment for the development of early
 career researchers and established staff. We train the next generation of researchers; currently
 we have 51 PhD students.

 Over the REF period, we consolidated and built on our strengths to remain at the forefront of
 disciplinary knowledge production. Our research remains attuned to longstanding intellectual
 and policy concerns while also evolving to address newer priorities. We conduct work for, and
 in collaboration with, diverse audiences, locally, nationally, and internationally. Since REF2014,
 we have published more than 1,350 peer-reviewed articles in leading disciplinary, field and
 policy journals, over 50 books, more than 240 book chapters, and over 250 research reports.
 We are also active in substantial partnership and collaborative efforts, knowledge exchange,
 and public engagement.

                                  Research and Impact Strategy

 Our over-arching strategic aims are to sustain and extend our research excellence and impact.
 Specific objectives are to:

  (a) Produce world-leading research, thereby continuing to be at the forefront of advancing
      knowledge;
  (b) Stimulate and foster intellectual debate;
  (c) Influence policy, practice, and legislation;
  (d) Improve public understanding and encourage meaningful engagement;
  (e) Promote social change for the betterment of society.

 The Unit’s achievement of objectives is illustrated below. First, we discuss the UoA structure and
 our intellectual, methodological, and ethical approaches to research and impact.

 Organisational Structure

 Our eight research clusters reflect areas of focus and strength, with some reorganisation over
 the REF period to reflect broadening and deepening of interests, and staff changes. We
 incorporate international and comparative perspectives in all clusters, emphasising the synergies
 of working across high-, middle- and low-income contexts, obviating the need for our former
 Development cluster. The Poverty, Inequality, and Wealth cluster incorporates the former
 Disadvantage grouping. Health and Social Care is now split into Health and Health Policy and
 Social Care. The Families and Children and Crime and Criminal Justice clusters remain as
 before. Three new clusters are: Work and Welfare; Race, Ethnicity, and Migration; and
 Governance and Institutions. There is no longer a Population cluster due to staff changes, but
 socio-demographic expertise remains a core input across many clusters.

 We belong to multiple departments (Gender Studies, Health Policy, Methodology, Psychological
 and Behavioural Sciences (PBS), Social Policy) and research centres (the former Ageing,
 Lifecourse, and Population Health Analysis unit (ALPHA), Care Policy and Evaluation Centre
 (CPEC, formerly PSSRU), Centre for Analysis of Social Exclusion (CASE), International

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Inequalities Institute (III), LSE Health, and the Mannheim Centre for Criminology). Research
 centres play major roles in raising external research funds. Many departmental faculty members
 have research centre affiliations and funded researchers in centres have departmental
 affiliations.

 Intellectual and Methodological Approach

 Our approach to advancing knowledge and impact has several core elements, outlined first and
 then illustrated with examples.

 •   We use theoretical perspectives from multiple disciplines including anthropology,
     behavioural science, criminology, demography, development studies, economics,
     epidemiology, geography, history, international relations, political science, psychology, social
     policy, social work, sociology, and statistics.
 •   Our research draws on the conceptual lenses of the life-course, inequalities conceived
     vertically (in terms of outcomes) and horizontally (across groups defined by age, gender,
     race/ethnicity, disability, sexuality); and incorporating policy analysis and evaluation.
 •   Our work is at various geographical scales, encompassing local and national, regional,
     international, global and comparative perspectives, with demonstrated experience in analysis
     of low-, middle-, and high-income countries.
 •   We have expertise in developing and applying rigorous and innovative quantitative,
     qualitative, and mixed methods designs. We analyse administrative data, large and
     smaller-scale surveys, conduct policy/practice experiments and quasi-experiments, and
     simulate policy at micro- and macro-levels. Our qualitative work includes stakeholder and
     service user interviews, life histories, documentary and archival analysis, ethnography, and
     comparative case studies.

 Cross-Cutting Activities

 The Unit fosters intellectual vibrancy and sustainability through peer feedback, connecting staff,
 students, and research users. Within and cutting across clusters are working paper series
 (CASE; Health Policy and Economics; Social Policy; CPEC), conferences and seminars, reading
 groups, PhD events and (new since REF2014) a Social Policy blog developed and co-curated
 with students. We organise six seminar series: Social Exclusion; Welfare Policy and Analysis;
 Health Policy; International Social and Public Policy; Mannheim; and Methodology. We co-
 organise four others: Inequalities; Psychology and Behavioural Science; Race, Ethnicity and
 Migration; and School for Social Care Research. We organise the annual LSE Behavioural
 Public Policy Lecture. The Department of Health Policy hosts the Global Health Initiative, a
 cross-departmental platform for promoting interdisciplinary research.

 Research Ethics, Integrity, Open Research

 We follow LSE’s Code of Research Conduct and Research Ethics Policy (see REF5a).
 Certification is project-dependent: levels include self-certification, or sign-off by Departmental
 Research Co-ordinators (who also audit the process), or by LSE’s Research Ethics Committee
 (REC) or external ethics committees in more complex cases. Two Social Policy professors
 (Dean, D.Lewis) have chaired the REC. Knapp’s membership of the Health Research Authority’s
 National Research and Ethics Advisors’ Panel also fosters good practice. Funded research
 projects have Data Management Plans, ensuring ethical integrity and security. Researchers are
 fully engaged with the LSE open-access policy. The number of open-access items in the
 institutional repository increased by >15% during this REF period. All our working paper series
 are open-access, ensuring our research is widely read. Fernández is editor of the Journal of
 Long-Term Care, published open-access by LSE Press.

 As well as depositing final project outputs, researchers are committed to the principles of open
 data-sharing. UoA members have a record of sharing datasets for replicability and depositing
 datasets from ESRC-funded research in the UK Data Archive. Additionally, researchers within

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the UoA are leading discussions around how to work with ‘Big Data’ to improve systems and
 services. Mossialos is Principal Investigator on Big Data for Better Outcomes (BD4BO), a major
 research programme launched by the Innovative Medicine Initiative 2. Members of CASE have
 developed a data management toolkit which includes best practice for data security, protection
 and archiving; this is now being used to develop an LSE-wide Research Data Toolkit by the
 Library, Cyber Security, Legal and Ethics teams.

 Delivering Impact (including ICSs)

 Since REF2014, and consistent with our objectives, we have deepened and broadened
 engagement with international and supra-national bodies, national and local government policy-
 makers and professionals, statutory public bodies, service providers, third sector organisations,
 user and advocacy groups, global academic and research communities, alumni and students,
 and the public. Our established links with policy-makers and influencers facilitate active
 dissemination, follow-through, and longer-term interaction. Co-production, capacity-building, and
 user involvement in our research processes ensure we ethically promote under-represented
 voices. Illustrating commitment to knowledge exchange and user partnerships, CASE’s Welfare
 Policy and Analysis seminars are run jointly with the Department of Work and Pensions and the
 Mannheim Centre’s What If… seminars are collaborations with the Howard League for Penal
 Reform. Additional activities include participation in high-level committees, expert evidence
 provision, advisory roles, meetings with, and presentations to, government departments and
 agencies, as well as newsletters, events, media, podcasts, and blogs (see Section 4). This is
 further enhanced by resourcing Professor in Practice roles, harnessing senior professional
 experience and access to political and policy networks (see Section 2).

 Our impact case studies (ICSs) illustrate powerful impact. CASE (Burchardt, Hills, McKnight,
 Stewart, Vizard) provided the framework for statutory monitoring of multidimensional inequalities
 to assist in assessing compliance with UN human rights treaties. Power’s promotion of tenant
 participation enabled tenant perspectives to feed into high-level policy at the Ministry of Housing,
 Communities and Local Government (MHCLG) and into operational decision-making among
 housing associations. Research for Jenkins’ ICS underpins the Office for National Statistics’
 recent modification of the official statistical series on income inequality. Highlighting our public
 and political reach is our ICS on mental health which influenced spending in the 2015 UK Budget
 and the 2019 NHS Long Term Plan, and supported prevention strategies. Fernández and
 colleagues’ ICS made recommendations on social care eligibility and funding that were
 incorporated into the Care Act 2014, and used by the Department of Health and Social Care
 (DHSC) as an exemplar of the ideal research-policy development process. Mossialos’ review of
 Austria’s social insurance system directly informed a restructure in national policy that ensures
 greater healthcare equity for the country’s population of 8.9m. Collectively, our ICSs
 demonstrate our continued ability to fundamentally shape social policy in practice.

                      Research and Impact Achievements Since REF2014

 This subsection illustrates the wealth of our research and impact activities, cluster by cluster,
 referencing successful implementation of, and modifications to, our REF2014 strategy, and
 reflecting our attention to new and urgent issues.

 1. Poverty, Inequality, and Wealth

 We achieved the REF2014 objective to establish the multidisciplinary International Inequalities
 Institute (III), with Hills’ key input as inaugural Co-Director. Atlantic Philanthropies gave £64m,
 with £32m from HEFCE. Ishkanian is Executive Director of the Atlantic Fellowships for Social
 and Economic Equity (AFSEE) programme and co-convenes III’s Politics of Inequality research
 theme, while Jenkins heads III’s Global Inequality Observatory. The III supports practitioners and
 activists in tackling root causes of inequality, clearly demonstrating our global reach, meaningful
 engagement, and promotion of social progress.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our £1m Nuffield Foundation programme, Social Policies and Distributional Outcomes in a
 Changing Britain (PI: Vizard), exemplifies strengths in expenditure and policy analysis of social
 security, housing, homelessness, health, social care, education, employment, security, and
 social mobility. Collaborating with Oxfam and SOAS, CASE designed an innovative online
 Multidimensional Inequality Framework toolkit, underpinned by Sen’s capability approach to
 poverty and inequality (see CASE’s ICS). Work on child poverty measurement by Stewart
 secured an amendment to the Welfare Reform and Work Act 2016. Behavioural science (Oliver)
 and social psychological (Sheehy-Skeffington) lenses offer further promise in interrogating public
 attitudes to inequality and decision-making among those experiencing extreme poverty.

 Consistent with our 2014 objectives, this cluster now also encompasses Wealth, providing
 evidence for debates on levels and trends, including for disabled persons, and cross-nationally
 (Anand, Hills, Karagiannaki, McKnight).

 Methodological innovations include Jenkins’ reconciling tax and survey data for improved
 measures of income inequality (see his ICS), while CASE’s deliberative study of public attitudes
 to a ‘riches line’ illustrates how our research informs discourse among civil servants, journalists,
 think-tanks, and advocacy groups.

 2. Families and Children (including Education)

 We achieved REF2014 objectives, except for research on comparative child protection (because
 Munro retired). We continue to demonstrate skill in policy assessment (e.g. Stewart and West on
 early years education; West on academies; and Shiner examining university offer rates by
 ethnicity). Exley’s research on private tuition in South Korea expands our country coverage, as
 does J. Lewis and West’s comparative work on social investment in early years’ education and
 care in England, France, and Germany. Platt analysed children's special educational needs and
 disability, collaborating with the Council for Disabled Children and Scope, discussing findings
 with the Department for Education (DfE) which fed into the Social Mobility Commission (SMC)
 report. West’s work on funding early years education was also used by the SMC.

 A hallmark of our research is programme evaluation to influence policy and practice. For
 example, using a 34-school randomised control trial, Lordan and McGuire found the Healthy
 Minds Curriculum improved wellbeing and mental health at low cost. CPEC, collaborating with
 the charity MQ, demonstrated short-term return of £1.58 for every £1 invested in the KiVa anti-
 bullying intervention.

 Exemplifying the fostering of intellectual dialogue and networking is our demographic research:
 on fertility decision-making in England, Poland, and Taiwan (Freeman, Goisis, Sigle); parental
 separation and child outcomes (Özcan, Platt, Sigle); fertility history and later-life cognition (Read,
 Grundy); and European patterns of intergenerational co-residence (Burchardt, Karagiannaki),
 addressed in a 2020 Economics of Family Formation, Children and Old Age Care workshop
 involving staff, PhD students, and international speakers.

 3. Health and Health Policy

 REF2014 plans were addressed and extended, particularly in the new Department of Health
 Policy (founded 2017), encompassing the Medical Technology Research Group and part of the
 European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies. The new Network for African Health
 Systems builds national and regional knowledge and capacity across five African centres,
 contributing to our global research portfolio. Demonstrating impact at scale, a Mossialos-led
 Chinese government review of state pharmaceutical policy underpinned reforms advancing
 medicines access and quality for 1.4bn people.

 Substantial research advanced our understanding of mental health, meeting objectives set in
 REF2014. CPEC work spans the life-course, and addresses school and workplace challenges
 (including of Covid-19), responses to terrorism, stigma, and how to foster community-based

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mental health support in the Syrian refugee crisis (Bonin, Brimblecombe, Evans-Lacko,
 Henderson, King, Knapp, McDaid, Park, Tinelli; see mental health ICS).

 Emblematic of world-class research, applications from multiple disciplines benefit this cluster.
 Seckinelgin’s political analysis of the HIV care cascade deepened knowledge about global
 health policies, while Wenham brings a gendered international relations frame to study global
 disease control. Similarly, Sigle’s feminist demography examined female political representation
 and mortality rates, while Lagarde, Costa-Font and Oliver have investigated health behaviours
 and clinical practice through a behavioural prism. Thomas is leading field experiments in
 Zimbabwe to measure influences on risky sexual behaviour, uptake of HIV testing and
 prevention methods. Numerous economic analyses enhanced clinical studies across public
 health, management of long-term conditions, and medicines/technologies (e.g. McGuire,
 Kanavos, Thomas, Wouters, Naci).

 4. Social Care

 We met our REF2014 research objectives. CPEC directs the National Institute for Health
 Research (NIHR) School for Social Care Research (Knapp) and the Policy Research Unit in
 Adult Social Care (Fernández), and is a partner in three other DHSC-funded Policy Research
 Units. Reflecting our world-class reputation, we lead the International Long-Term Care Policy
 Network, strengthening links between researchers, policy-makers and care professionals
 championing evidence-based policy and practice. CPEC conducted studies to update the
 government’s Relative Needs Allocation Formulae for Adult Social Care and shape national
 eligibility criteria for care. Economic analyses fed into National Institute for Health and Care
 Excellence (NICE) guidelines (Bauer, Fernández, Knapp). Indicating our desire to inform policy
 and practice, the Preventonomics Unit Cost Calculator provides intervention and staff cost
 estimates for health and social care providers, users, and researchers (Bonin). Commitment to
 participatory research is exemplified in appointment of a carer as Co-Investigator of the
 MODEM: Costs and Outcomes of Dementia study. Projections of future dementia-related needs
 and costs, and cost-effectiveness analyses of interventions fed into DHSC policy discussions
 and influenced NICE guidelines.

 5. Crime and Criminal Justice

 We delivered on our REF2014 goals and continue to advance knowledge of policing, legitimacy,
 and penal institutions. Downes and Newburn (with Rock, Sociology) were appointed by the
 Cabinet Office as Official Historians, and use archival analysis to advance knowledge about
 post-war criminal justice policy formation. Via secondment to the Open Society Justice Initiative
 and collaborating with the StopWatch coalition, Shiner’s research on the racialized effects of
 policing influenced operational practices reducing discriminatory use of the Metropolitan Police’s
 Gang Matrix, and also improved understanding among parliamentarians, the National Police
 Chiefs’ Council, and the media.

 Cheliotis strengthened and broadened coverage on penal and immigration detention, political
 economy, and comparative governance, especially in the Mediterranean region. Koehler’s
 scholarship provides quantitative depth, expertise in evidence-based policy, and proficiency in
 systematic reviews. Newburn enhanced knowledge about protests and their policing in Hong
 Kong and the US, as well as identifying conditions under which riots do not occur. Phillips
 continues studying race/ethnicity and crime and justice, particularly among Gypsies and
 Travellers, while Jackson and Sturgis consider collective efficacy, crime, and neighbourhood
 ethnic composition. Cross-cut by psychological influences is Cheliotis’ scholarship on Fromm,
 and Sanders’ on cognitive insights into facial identification. Jackson’s research on procedural
 justice is at the intersection of psychology and law, and combines conceptual refinement with
 methodological innovation in examining virtual reality simulations of police-citizen drone
 encounters and direct observation of the policing of marginalised communities.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 6. Work and Welfare

 This new cluster reflects burgeoning work on labour markets and caring. Our ambitious research
 advances understanding through interdisciplinary engagement. Fleckenstein’s research,
 comparing Sweden, Germany and South Korea, addressed the drivers of labour market reform
 using insights from political science, while a British Academy-funded workshop with Korean
 academics fostered dialogue on social investment policies in Europe and East Asia. Biegert
 highlights institutions, including trade unions, in understanding job exits and entries, as does his
 research on benefits and employment incentives comparing Europe and the USA. Sheely’s
 research on US state welfare regimes enhances knowledge about heterogeneities in
 implementation. In research commissioned by the Department for International Development
 (DFID)’s South Asia Research Hub, Kumar shed light on exploitative labouring in urban
 construction projects in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan. Hills’ research
 straddled the work and welfare domains with an unpacking of welfare myths regarding
 redistribution across the life course. Innovatively, it used vignettes and family archetypes to
 describe lived experiences of the welfare state alongside quantitative analyses, conveying stark
 policy challenges while remaining fully accessible to political, civil society, and public audiences.
 Brimblecombe’s research on carers explores policy-relevant interfaces between employment,
 education, welfare and care.

 7. Race, Ethnicity, Migration

 This new cluster is a strategic expansion. Platt’s research on inter-ethnic relations enhanced
 understanding of the role of school contact and has been the subject of meetings with MHCLG,
 DfE, and the Mayor of London’s team. Her work on ethnic inequalities is an important
 contribution to the IFS Deaton Review of Inequality, precipitating an address to a cross-
 governmental forum of chief economists. Platt’s work on labour market inequalities among
 Chinese populations was part of an international workshop of researchers from China, US, and
 UK. This is complemented by Lordan’s analysis of racial discrimination in access to employment
 during recessions.

 Shutes’ research examined work-related welfare conditionality for national, EU and non-EU
 citizens, producing a policy brief for European Commission officials to inform the 2017 EU White
 Paper on the Future of Europe. Our distinctive application of insights from multiple disciplinary
 perspectives includes D. Lewis’ employment of an anthropology and development lens in
 studying impacts of the 2017 Rohingya refugee crisis on Bangladeshi state and civil society,
 while Cheliotis adopts a political economic lens to analyse experiences of irregular migration in
 Greece. The intersection of gender, work, citizenship and migration underlies research by Platt,
 Plomien, and Shutes. Sanders uses behavioural science to study refugee integration. Murphy
 and Özcan use demographic methods to shed light on how migration influences European
 population trends and refugee flows, respectively. Phillips’ interrogation of racial knowledge
 construction in criminology and social policy speaks to disciplinary omissions as the decolonising
 agenda gathers pace.

 8. Governance and Institutions

 Deepening understanding through interdisciplinary intellectual exchange, research in this new
 cluster by Parkhurst uses concepts from policy studies, political science, philosophy, sociology,
 and cognitive psychology to develop the concept of ‘good governance of evidence’ in Cambodia,
 Ethiopia, Ghana and elsewhere. This framework was adopted by the EC’s Group of Chief
 Scientific Advisors. Newburn studied the dynamics of cross-jurisdictional mobility of policy ideas,
 programmes, and practices in crime control. Plomien employs a feminist perspective to
 illuminate Polish childcare reforms. CASE’s Nuffield Foundation-funded research explored
 impacts of devolution on welfare provision and distributional outcomes.

 Dean examined the social construction of social rights of citizenship across Europe and
 reviewed outputs from bEUCitizen working groups on rights to work. Seckinelgin’s study of rights

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and representation in relation to gender and sexualities captures political complexities in African
 health and political settings and, as in Wenham’s analysis of World Health Organisation (WHO)
 policy governance failures in Ebola disease control, an international relations frame is used. With
 funding from IGA Rockefeller, D. Lewis studied academic research, knowledge brokers and
 climate change in the UK, Germany, Uganda and Bangladesh; and local government, power and
 informality in Bangladesh. Cornish’s theoretical re-envisioning of community health mobilisation
 uses the Occupy movement as a case study.

 Urgent Social Policy Concerns

 Cross-cluster research activities enabled us to respond quickly to pressing social policy issues.
 Regarding Covid-19, we are providing ground-breaking analysis of the disproportionate
 vulnerabilities and impacts on minority ethnic groups and women (Asaria, Wenham), with Platt’s
 work resulting in her membership of the SAGE ethnicity sub-group and appointment as
 Specialist Adviser to the Women and Equalities Committee Inquiry. Oliver considered the
 behavioural science behind social distancing and secured 50 online country/state reports by
 leading health scholars to assist policy responses to the pandemic. West’s research on
 European death counts revealed differences in legislative provision, reporting and recording
 practices, informing cross-national comparability and policy responses. Examining pandemic
 and lockdown implications for GP supply (Asaria), young people’s education and well-being
 (Sturgis), cancer care (Mossialos), autistic people (Pais, Knapp) and policing (Jackson),
 occurred alongside the creation of an online resource platform for long-term care (LTCCovid,
 Comas-Herrera), with policy recommendations published through WHO. Fernández partnered
 with all London boroughs to collect, analyse and feedback evidence on Covid-19 outbreaks in
 care homes to assist real-time workforce and financial planning, and Comas-Herrera gave
 evidence to the House of Commons Health and Social Care Committee.

 With LSE KEI/HEIF funding, Cornish studied community recovery among the Grenfell
 population, acknowledging the effects of inertia and resistance in limiting emancipatory change.
 Power published research about lessons to be learnt from the disaster, drawing on interviews
 with social housing tenants (see her ICS).

 CASE assessed Brexit’s potential distributional effects on living standards, poverty, health and
 social care, house prices, and workers’ rights, and Costa-Font, its effects on the NHS.
 In research on climate change, Krekel investigated the effects of wind turbines and biogas plants
 on wellbeing, while Shreedhar has assessed the impact of biodiversity conservation videos on
 charitable donations. Gough, a former colleague who has retained visiting professor status,
 employs comparative political economy to promote decarbonisation climate change policies
 while meeting human need sustainably.

 Multidisciplinary and Interdisciplinary Research

 Our research reflects constant exposure to multiple disciplines’ concepts, theories, and methods,
 as illustrated above. Individuals publish in single-disciplinary, interdisciplinary, and field-specific
 journals. Disciplinary dialogue and exchange are proactively facilitated through attendance at
 our seminar/webinar series and other events. Examples of cross-disciplinary collaborations
 include: statisticians and social policy researchers’ analysis of intergenerational exchanges
 (Burchardt) and collaborations with nursing faculty (Sheely, Tinelli). The Health Policy cluster
 routinely works at the social-clinical sciences interface.

 Methodological Applications

 UoA research is distinguished by considerable methodological diversity and a desire to embrace
 new approaches. Selected examples of innovative applications include:
 • CASE pooled and linked datasets to overcome deficits in official statistics’ coverage of small-
    sized groups (including Gypsies, Roma and Travellers, carers, disabled people, migrants,
    and those at risk of abuse);

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Basso analysed neuroimaging data to examine cognitive mechanisms affecting consumer
     behaviour that can lead to accidental poisoning;
 •   Cornish operationalised concepts from dialogism theory to develop a method of analysing
     the meaning of utterances and multivoicedness;
 •   Gillespie analysed large-scale textual complaints data in healthcare, policing, justice and
     corporate services institutions;
 •   Fernández used text-mining strategies to analyse social care case records;
 •   Jenkins demonstrated the difficulties of estimating country effects in comparative policy
     analysis using multi-country surveys;
 •   Lagarde employed economic games to analyse trust between patients and clinicians;
 •   D. Lewis studied the Reality Check experiment in Bangladesh which used light-touch
     ethnographic accounts of poor households' experiences of education and healthcare
     services to inform policy-makers;
 •   Newburn set out methodological templates to study cross-national policy mobilities;
 •   Platt co-designed the 2016 Immigrant and Ethnic Minority Boost sample for Understanding
     Society; and demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of postal collection of shed milk teeth as a
     stable biomarker for health outcomes;
 •   Ishkanian’s Participatory Action Research brought together academics, practitioners and
     activists in the UK, Greece, and Armenia;
 •   Wittenberg, Fernández and others developed microsimulation and cell-based models to
     project future social care demand and expenditure; and
 •   Funded by the European Commission, the Medical Technology Research Group continue to
     enhance tools and methodologies for health technology assessment.

 We improved survey and question design (Hildebrandt), scale-validation (Sheehy-Skeffington),
 and criterion and contingent validity in willingness-to-pay methods (Kanya). Jackson led design
 of a 45-question module testing procedural justice theory in 28 countries (European Social
 Survey Round 5). We developed new psychological tools to measure wellbeing (Dolan,
 Thomas), new social care outcome measures (Malley) and a hospital frailty risk score using
 electronic hospital records (Street).

                           Research and Impact Strategy: 2020–2025

 Our over-arching objective is to continue contributing to the political, economic, and social
 betterment of society, aligning with LSE’s 2030 strategy (see REF5a). Our approach is ‘bottom-
 up’ with researchers having considerable freedom to develop their own research agendas,
 combined with strategic developments overseen by departmental Research Coordinators and
 research centre directors, with wider discussion at staff meetings. There are also forums for
 information-sharing about research and impact funding. We work directly with LSE’s Research
 and Innovation division in project development and award management (see REF5a).

 Alignment with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals as part of LSE’s 2030 strategy directs
 our research attention towards poverty, food security, safety, health, wellbeing, inclusive
 education, decent employment, access to justice, and climate change. We will continue to bring
 empirical, methodological, and theoretical insights to the determinants, design, and outcomes of
 policies in these domains, whilst remaining flexible to address real-world events, trends, and
 challenges that require a strategic pivot. Our continuing responses to Covid-19, for example,
 require more research from many perspectives including epidemiology, sociology, psychology,
 political science, and economics. Relatedly, in partnership with the World Economic Forum and
 Astra-Zeneca, we established a research network to assess health care system resilience and
 sustainability post-Covid, currently with teams in France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia, Spain,
 UK, and Vietnam.

 We shall develop new research partnerships to strengthen policy and practice change. Bonin is
 participating in an ESRC-funded study involving education scholars, criminologists,



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 family lawyers, and clinical psychologists from six universities to reduce school exclusions. LSE
 Health is initiating a joint global surgery research unit with the Royal College of Surgeons and
 has begun developing a research/media/business partnership with Cambridge, Imperial, Google,
 Facebook, and McKinsey to launch the Trinity Challenge, aimed at preventing future global
 pandemics. Similarly, the BD4B0 initiative, partnering SMEs, pharmaceutical companies,
 research organisations, medicine regulators, and patient groups, will curate big data in
 pursuance of value-based, outcomes-focused healthcare systems in Europe, promoting
 knowledge and methodological advances in heart disease, Alzheimer’s, prostate, and blood
 cancers. We are well-placed to maximise influence with the private sector through Lordan’s
 Inclusion Initiative (II): this strengthens links between inclusion of women and minority ethnic
 groups and core business outcomes such as innovation and risk-assessment, using behavioural
 insights to propose cost-effective interventions for inclusion of talents at all levels, disseminated
 through an open-source research repository. The II already has relationships with over 40
 companies in London and is expanding to the US and Asia.

 A significant future undertaking of our research and impact activities will be critical thinking about
 representation and capacity-building, participatory approaches, and reflexivity, relative to
 protected characteristics in the Equality Act 2010. Recently funded projects already engage with
 this responsibility. Stewart’s Nuffield Foundation-funded longitudinal research, for example,
 combines quantitative, qualitative, and participatory elements alongside the Child Poverty Action
 Group to examine how large families are impacted by the benefits cap. Phillips’ ESRC-funded
 Gypsies and Travellers’ study on crime and justice partners with third sector organisations. They
 will advise on recruitment of Gypsy and Traveller researchers, sample selection, and training for
 community members to develop creative media outputs of research findings, contributing
 capacity-building and co-production. Ensuring diverse scholarly representation will also continue
 to be an important consideration in our future faculty and doctoral student recruitment.

 2. People

                                          Staffing Strategy

 Attracting, developing, and retaining outstanding staff, and then supporting them in lifelong
 career development is key to our research and impact excellence. LSE was awarded Athena
 Swan bronze in April 2020 and is working towards the ECU’s Race Equality Charter Bronze
 award: this has already included staff training on unconscious bias (see REF5a). Departments
 have named Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) representatives monitoring issues in
 departmental processes including recruitment. In the department of Social Policy, the EDI
 representative is a member of the Management Team ex-officio. Succession planning will
 ensure that our strategic research and impact agenda is maintained. A further aim will be to
 appoint world-class staff while better reflecting under-represented groups in our faculty, research
 and professional services staff.

 Since REF2014, the LSE has implemented new career structures for faculty (New Academic
 Career (NAC) track) and funded researchers (New Research Staff Career (NRSC) track), which
 have performance-related promotion criteria for each career step, with associated support,
 monitoring and evaluation procedures. Most new faculty are hired at Assistant Professor level
 with School-level Interim Review after three years and an up-or-out Major Review after eight
 years (with EDI-related variations). The NRSC has a parallel structure with modifications related
 to funding sustainability (see also REF5a). Six staff took up leave and flexible work entitlements
 over the period in accordance with equality provisions. Our submitted outputs reflect
 proportionate representation of our UoA staff profile by gender, ethnicity, and disability (see
 REF5a).

 Recruitment

 Recruitment follows LSE policy governing advertising, membership of long- and short-listing
 committees, and participation by department and centre staff of all grades in selection, and with

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 input from EDI representatives. As part of the Two Ticks Scheme an interview is guaranteed to
 disabled candidates who demonstrate that they meet all the essential role criteria.

 Our recruitment enables us to strategically develop our expertise from those at the cutting- edge
 of social policy research. Since REF2014, appointments have been made to sustain and
 develop our profile and to replace staff who have retired (Dean, Hall, J. Lewis, Munro, Power) or
 resigned (Grundy, Myrskylä). With an average of 64 applications per vacancy, we have made
 Assistant Professor appointments in Behavioural Science (2), Criminology (2), Development (1),
 European Social Policy (1), Health Policy (2), and Health Economics (1), and three full Professor
 appointments (Behavioural Economics, Health Economics, and Methodology). Appointees came
 from Berlin WZB, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Kings, LSHTM, Oxford, UCD, Berkeley, and York.
 Eight Research Officers and three Research Fellows have been appointed using external grants.
 The appointees enhance our research environment with their contributions to the discipline and
 impact activities (discussed below). Nominating and financially contributing to part-time and fixed
 term LSE Centennial Professor appointments (Anand, Atkinson, Hemerijk) has further enriched
 our environment through lectures, research collaborations, leadership, networking, and
 mentoring of early career staff.

 Investing in knowledge exchange, we used LSE’s Visiting Professors and Professor in Practice
 schemes to nurture links with key figures in the public and third sectors. These included:
 • Baroness Ros Altman (former Minister for Pensions and Child Maintenance);
 • Sir David Behan (former head, Care Quality Commission and Chair, Health Education
     England);
 • Leon Feinstein (Children’s Commissioners Office);
 • Dr Hans Kluge (Director at WHO Europe);
 • Jim McManus (Director of Public Health, Hertfordshire);
 • Michael Spurr (former Chief Executive Officer HM Prison and Probation Service);
 • Christos Stylianides (former EU Commissioner);
 • Professor Panos Vardas (Chief Strategy Officer of European Heart Health Institute); and
 • Moira Wallace (former Chair, Social Exclusion Unit).

 Post-holders offer policy insights, seminars, mentoring, as well as developing direct networks
 between academics and policy-makers.

 Staff Development and Retention

 We hold Career Development Reviews (CDRs) annually with faculty and researchers below full
 Professor grade. CDRs, based on self-evaluation documents discussed with a senior colleague,
 provide constructive dialogue about performance, elicit training and support needs, and develop
 specific plans for career advancement which are reviewed the following year. Over the period,
 six staff have been promoted to Associate Professor and one to Professor. Research centre
 leadership succession by Associate Professor-level staff exemplifiers our commitment to support
 staff to assume increasingly greater responsibilities. The Directorships of CASE, CPEC, and
 Mannheim are flourishing with such changes: Burchardt succeeding Hills (CASE); Fernández
 succeeding Knapp (CPEC); and Cheliotis succeeding Newburn (Mannheim).

 To retain staff, we offer salaries that are above sector averages, and there is additional LSE
 support for new faculty with London’s high living costs. We protect research time by using
 transparent workload models overseen by Heads of Departments to govern annual allocations of
 teaching, marking, and administration, cognisant of caring responsibilities, long-term illness, and
 well-being. Assistant Professors receive a 20% teaching/administrative reduction to dedicate
 time to research. Individual research staff can access internal and external training opportunities
 (e.g. on research methods, article and blog writing, ethics, or register for discounted or LSE-
 funded higher degrees and personal career development). We try to accommodate requests for
 secondments (see examples below).



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for Research and Impact

 Departmental Research Coordinators monitor and coordinate research initiatives and activities,
 including working with research centre directors to promote knowledge exchange and impact.
 The UoA supports and rewards staff for carrying out research and achieving impact by:

 •      Timetabling at least one day per week during term-time free from teaching;
 •      LSE’s Sabbatical Leave Policy provides one, two or three terms without teaching
        depending on 8, 16, and 21 terms of service respectively. A total of 25 FTE staff have
        taken sabbatical or research leave since 2014;
 •      LSE’s Research Incentives Policy encourages external funding bids by allocating an
        income proportion recovered from funders’ to supplement personal research accounts
        (see REF5a);
 •      Facilitating secondments (e.g. Karagiannaki to the Department for Work and Pensions;
        Shiner to the Open Society Justice Initiative);
 •      Research excellence is an essential criterion for promotion to Associate Professor and
        Professor levels in the NAC and NRSC;
 •      Contribution pay awards reward outstanding research performance and building
        pathways to impact.

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)

 LSE’s 2030 Strategy includes a commitment to invest in social scientists of the future through
 provision of enhanced support. The NIHR School for Social Care Research, led from LSE, for
 example, is investing £3m over five years in capacity-building in social care research, especially
 at early career stages.

 We are building a critical mass of ECRs and they are inducted into our research culture through
 EDI training as part of the mandatory New Starter induction, and through skills training in
 research, project management, and leadership (e.g. Advance HE Aurora programme). We
 allocate Assistant Professors, Assistant Professorial Research Fellows, LSE Fellows (who are
 all on full-year contracts), Research Fellows and Research Officers a mentor who offers informal
 advice and career guidance. Additionally, during the REF period we hosted: two ESRC Post-
 Doctoral Fellows (Gutiérrez, Bainbridge) mentored by Exley, Newburn, and Özcan; a Marie
 Curie Doctoral Fellow (Kadel) supervised by Knapp and McDaid; a Newton Fellow (Hoffmann)
 mentored by Evans-Lacko; and two NIHR doctoral fellows (Stevens, Trigg) supervised by
 Fernández and Beecham. Relatedly, T.Campbell’s research agenda has been developed
 through her British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship.

 All ECRs, including those joining us as Visiting Fellows, are encouraged to participate in
 seminars, reading groups and social events, and they are provided with advice about research
 and impact funding opportunities. Our ECRs have contributed multiple published articles,
 working papers, conference and seminar presentations throughout the REF period.

                 Recruitment, Supervision and Training of Research Students

 PhD students are central to our research environment; LSE’s 2030 Strategy commits investment
 in them through scholarships and dedicated support. Demand for PhD places is high (see below)
 with more than 894 applications to the departments of Health Policy and Social Policy alone.
 The UoA pays close attention to EDI issues from initial expressions of interest to offering places
 and scholarships. Annually we average 10 students beginning doctoral training with most
 awarded scholarships (19 ESRC; 11 LSE; 2 Leverhulme; 10 other scholarships). Across Health
 Policy and Social Policy, £3.8m funding was provided for research students (LSE: £2,2m;
 external funders: £1.6m). We do not have a professional doctorate programme.

            PhD students, by year (Health Policy and Social Policy students only)


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                      14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20
          Applications                  145       156     149      193     251      228
          Offers                         24        16      23       16      26       24
          Registrations                  14        11      12       11      12       14
          Funded studentships            10        11       5        8      10       14
          Completions                    16        13      12       15      15       12
          Notes: Studentships are from LSE, ESRC, and external funders. Numbers
          refer to students in the Departments of Health Policy and Social Policy only,
          as LSE statistics are available only for departments, not aggregated by UoA.

 We are proud of the ‘value-added’ by our research supervision and training. Every PhD student
 has at least two supervisors. We require at least two supervisory meetings per term (there are
 usually more), with summaries and action points logged online and monitored.

 Students attend regular within-cohort seminars for research training (ethics and risk
 assessments, research conduct, data management, data security, analysis and writing, job-
 market and publishing strategies) where they also develop communication skills and receive and
 offer peer-support as their research progresses. PhD students complete annual evaluations of
 their research training needs, met through the PhD Academy, Methodology Department taught
 courses (e.g. Applied Regression Analysis, Introduction to Quantitative Analysis, Qualitative
 Research Methods), Library training, and attendance at external training sessions (e.g. creating
 posters, public speaking). PhD students frequently gain further experience as paid Research
 Assistants on funded projects. Many also take up undergraduate class teaching opportunities,
 with training from LSE’s Eden Centre for Educational Enhancement, and several complete the
 Postgraduate Certificate of Higher Education.

 At the end of Year 1, PhD students submit a 10,000-word Major Review document setting out a
 review of relevant literature, their proposed research questions, methods and data collection and
 analysis plans. This is orally assessed by two reviewers (not supervisors); a pass means
 progression to the research stage. Supervisors report on performance at the end of Year 2; the
 review at the end of Year 3 requires students to submit two empirical chapters and a schedule
 for completion. We adjust timetables for students who have taken parental leave or switched to
 part-time status to meet caring or other commitments. PhD students participate as full members
 in our seminar series and reading groups, including the newly established Mannheim Doctoral
 Working Group organised by Koehler which facilitates exchange across multiple LSE
 departments whose students are interested in crime, justice, and law. We strongly encourage all
 PhD students to share completed research in working paper form, sometimes by co-authoring
 research papers with faculty. Our PhD students published around 40 papers in peer-reviewed
 journals during the REF period (sole-authored or joint), including in Global Social Policy, Health
 Policy, Population and Development Review and Social Science and Medicine. They also
 published chapters in edited volumes, and wrote reports, working papers and blogs. External
 prizes illustrate the strength of our research environment: Ng won the SPA Award for Excellence
 in Doctoral Research; Bancalari received the Spanish Nada es Gratis award.

 Students participate in external conferences and workshops to derive additional feedback and
 build intellectual networks. Our PhD programme quality is indicated by PhD student paper
 acceptances at highly competitive conferences such as those held by Social Policy Association,
 European Social Policy Association, Population Association of America, Society for the Analysis
 of Economic Inequality, and other international sociological, political science, criminology, health
 economics and long-term care conferences. Students also contribute to other events: one
 example was Fleckenstein’s British Academy-funded Seoul and London workshops for civil
 servants on social investment in Europe and East Asia.

 Our PhD students are also co-founders and co-curators of our new Social Policy: an
 International Perspective blog. Some events organised by our PhD students include:


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •      Annual PhD Research Days e.g. Social Policy in Challenging Times (2019);
 •      Qualitative Research Group and Methods Surgery and Work in Progress sessions;
 •      Co-organisation of 27th Annual Population Postgraduate Conference (PopFest 2019)
 •      Race, Ethnicity Postcolonial Studies PhD symposiums (2015, 2016; with LSE Sociology);
 •      Open Minds exhibition at LSE about the lived experience of autism to promote public
        understanding.

 We also organised events for our PhD students. Two examples are:
 •     An Economics of Family, Gender and Old-Age day-workshop with presentations followed
       by one-to-one meetings with Editors of six journals (organisers: Costa-Font, De Cao,
       Özcan);
 •     Poster exhibition using visual means to articulate students’ research questions,
       methodological approach, findings, and analysis, enabling students to showcase, share
       and communicate their work, after poster training from the LSE PhD Academy.

 PhD Student Knowledge Exchange and Impact

 Central funds provided a £2k award to Bancalari to support her organisation of a policy-maker
 roundtable in Peru concerning sewage infrastructure needs to reduce child mortality. Similarly,
 Ratzmann arranged talks and workshops with German policy-makers on social security, while
 Söderholm convened a roundtable in Beirut to establish an Expert Working Group on illicit
 economies in the Middle East. Bevan worked with the Youth Justice Legal Centre and Howard
 League for Penal Reform to produce guidance for lawyers representing looked-after children at
 the police station. Fuchkan consulted with researchers at Columbia University studying the after-
 effects of 9/11 to inform her own work on the London transport bombings.

 PhD Student Career Destinations

 Around half of the 83 PhD students who completed during the REF period work in policy roles
 around the world: in national and international organisations (e.g. civil services in Australia,
 Chile, UK, the UN and World Bank), with NGOs, or the private sector including consulting (e.g.
 McKinsey) and the pharmaceutical industry. The other half of our graduate body gained first jobs
 in higher education as Assistant Professors, Teaching Fellows or post-doctoral researchers at
 institutions including Baja California, Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Harvard, Hong Kong, Kent, LSE,
 Oxford, Sciences Po, Pennsylvania, PUC Chile, SOAS, Southampton, Stockholm, TCD, Trent,
 UCL, and Wisconsin-Madison. Four PhD students took up post-doctoral LSE Fellow posts over
 the period.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

                                   Research and Impact Income

 Demonstrating the core values of social science research and impact are key components of
 LSE’s 2030 Strategy, with external funding a central means to this end. Our high-quality
 research and impact have been aided by continued success in generating large amounts of
 income from multiple funders. We have been especially adept at attracting funding from
 research councils, governments, and charitable foundations, but also through consultancy and
 enterprise activities, as the table below shows. The figures represent the £44m that is LSE-
 specific expenditure from external awards. (Total award values are much higher because some
 staff are PIs for multi-university projects, underlining again the collaborative nature of our work.)

                  External research funding (expenditure at LSE), by funder
                Funder                                                     £m
                Research Councils, Royal Society, British Academy          7.8
                UK-based charities                                         5.0
                UK central government, LAs, health & hospital authorities 15.7

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
               UK industry, commerce, public corporations                           0.2
               EU government bodies, charities, industry, commerce                 10.8
               Other UK, EU                                                         0.8
               Non-EU, all types                                                    4.0
               Total                                                               44.1

 Prestigious and major grants have been awarded from the British Academy, Commonwealth
 Fund, ESRC, Health Foundation, Joseph Rowntree Foundation, MRC, NIHR, Nuffield
 Foundation, Wellcome Trust and WHO. Research has also been funded by local, national, and
 international governments (DfE, DFID, DHSC, European Commission, Public Health England,
 States of Austria, China, Qatar). Consortia with other institutions fosters intellectual exchange
 and complementarity of skills, and typically also builds infrastructure and capacity. UoA staff are
 leading on the following initiatives receiving funding of at least £1m:

  Funder                    Budget                          Project
  ERC                        €1.5m Family Life Courses, Intergenerational Exchanges and
                                   Later Life Health
  ESRC                       £3.3m Comprehensive Approach to Modelling Outcome and
                                   Cost Impacts of Interventions for Dementia
                               £2m Supporting Adult Social Care Innovation
  European Commission        €7.2m Innovative Medicines Initiative: Big Data for Better
                                   Outcomes
                               €3m Advancing and Strengthening Methodological Tools
                                   and Practices Relating to the Application and
                                   Implementation of Health Technology Assessment
  Gates Foundation           $6.5m Network for African Health Systems
  Global Challenges          £7.9m Strengthening Responses to Dementia in Developing
  Research Fund (UKRI)             Countries (STRiDE)
  NIHR                        £36m School for Social Care Research Phases 2, 3
                               £5m Policy Research Unit in Adult Social Care
  Nuffield Foundation          £1m Social Policies and Distributional Outcomes in a
                                   Changing Britain

 Other selected awards illustrate the breadth of our externally funded research:

  Funder                    Budget                         Project
  Australian Research        £180k Income Inequality and Mobility in Australia, Great
  Council                          Britain and the USA
  British Academy            £358k Relative Age and SEN in Primary School
  ESRC                       £318k Intra-Household Allocation of Resources
  EU FP-7                    £482k Barriers to EUropean CITIZENship
  Health Foundation          £600k Impact of Workforce Turnover and Temporary Staff on
                                   Productivity and Health Outcomes in the Hospital
                                   Sector
  MRC                        £496k Quality of Care and Provider Performance in Senegal
  Wellcome Trust             £478k Investment in Health Sciences Research in Africa
  WHO                        £300k Strengthening National Policies to Combat
                                   Antimicrobial Resistance

 Smaller awards, sometimes from less well-known funders, including from the private sector,
 often supported innovative research, initial exploration of issues or implementation and impact
 activities. Some awards funded career development and capacity-building activities. We
 received funding from the Ako Foundation, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Chiang Ching-kuo
 Foundation, Commonwealth Fund, Deloitte France, Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Heinrich Böll
 Foundation, Onassis Foundation, PhRMA, and Trust for London. Examples include McKnight

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 who received £15k from the Department for Education. With openDemocracy, Ishkanian
 received £20k from the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung foundation to host a 1.5-day international
 knowledge exchange workshop at LSE (The Squares and Beyond), bringing together policy-
 makers, practitioners, activists, and journalists.

 Most awards (of all sizes) explicitly incorporate KEI activities. A growing proportion of projects
 involve non-academic partners or target beneficiaries in conceptualisation, design and
 implementation of the research. There has been growth over time in the utilisation of newer
 channels for our research dissemination, including social media, podcasts, mobile multimedia
 exhibitions, policy briefs, parliamentary events, and plain English summaries.

 These diverse funding streams underpin the sustainability of our research and impact over the
 medium term; many of our submitted outputs and ICSs were supported by externally funded
 research.

                                            Infrastructure

 Our research funding strategy is supported through LSE Research and Innovation. Their
 research development staff disseminate research calls and attend our staff meetings to discuss
 funding options, to explain their role in facilitating large-scale bids, and provide advice on
 developing, budgeting, and managing grants. We have an internal online repository of
 successfully funded research and KEI applications to assist ECRs and others developing new
 proposals. There is also a culture of collegial feedback on draft proposals.

 Of £141.4m sought over the REF period, 30% of applications received funding (with 13%
 pending). The table below shows how we have raised bid success rates over time, in part by
 deliberately submitting fewer but higher-quality applications. External funding from all sources
 grew by 22% from £5.7m in 2013/14 to £7m in 2019/20, with Research Council and British
 Academy funding more than trebling (from £0.6m in 2013/14 to £2.1m in 2019/20).

                        Funding applications: numbers and success rate
                          Year       Number of bids       % funded
                         2014/15          111                31
                         2015/16          113                 8
                         2016/17           73                44
                         2017/18           84                35
                         2018/19           47                40
                         2019/20           16                63

 IT technical equipment and user support are administered centrally. Academic Support
 Librarians provide staff with subject expertise and personalised support in accessing materials.
 LSE’s Research Impact Manager has run ‘Understanding Impact’ workshops to help staff
 develop KEI skills. One-to-one training has been provided to thirteen UoA staff by the School’s
 KEI Integrated Service to help colleagues maximise potential impacts of their planned
 engagement activities. In our departments and research centres, we have recruited
 Communications and Events staff to help disseminate research and impact achievements, and
 CASE has a Knowledge Exchange Manager. The Department of Health Policy recruited a
 Senior Policy Fellow to oversee the Network for African Health Systems and Policies, and further
 Policy Fellows, Policy Officers, and LSE Consultants support the translation of research for
 policy and practitioner audiences. Staff also work with LSE’s Public Affairs team to ensure their
 work feeds into government consultations and to build closer links with MPs. Lordan, for
 example, was assisted to meet with the Skills Lead at the DfE, Sheely met with the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group on Single Parent Families, and Ishkanian with the All-Party Parliamentary
 Group on Disabilities.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Internal Funding Streams

 There are annual allocations to help staff develop their research and impact agendas, especially
 ECRs: currently Assistant Professors receive £1,420, Associate and Full Professors £970 for
 conferences and other research expenses. Staff can also apply for seed funding to the III
 Research Innovation Fund (up to £10K), Titmuss Meinhardt Research Fund (£10K), and
 STICERD (£5K) grants. Resources are available for building research networks, bridging and
 seed funding through the LSE’s Research Infrastructure and Investment Fund (RIIF). Over the
 period, £2.7m central RIIF monies have been competitively awarded to our staff for preparing
 new proposals, achieving impact, or starting new projects. The fund has also supported public
 lectures and events (see Section 4).

 An example of our use of departmental allocation of central KEI funds (£10k pa from 2018/19
 onwards) was an exhibition of 18 posters and three videos by our researchers and PhD students
 in the OXO Tower, London: How Social Policy Shapes the World You Live In exhibition had 600
 visitors over 10 days. In addition, staff may apply in a competitive process for KEI central LSE
 funds (up to £100K; £1.6m awarded over REF period). Among supported projects, Fernández
 used data visualisation to facilitate policy dialogue on ageing and long-term care, and
 Fleckenstein developed A Social Policy Strategy for the South Korean Government outlining
 modernising reforms for a government think-tank. LSE Consulting has also brokered multiple
 research projects that provide a bridge between our staff and external clients, totalling £2.5m
 over the period.

                                             Facilities

 Our success in generating research income is dependent on the infrastructure and facilities that
 underpin our vibrant research culture. Our behavioural science researchers make heavy use of
 LSE’s Behavioural Lab, purpose-built to study human behaviour in a controlled environment.
 Since REF2014, the LSE has updated its High Performance Computing facilities: we use these
 extensively to analyse large and complex datasets (e.g. health administrative records) and to
 exploit multiple processors in parallel for speed (e.g. for Monte-Carlo simulation analyses).

 Our Social Science Research Laboratory (SSRL) has high-specification PCs and other IT
 equipment used by staff, PhD students, emeritus faculty, and visiting scholars. There are four
 other PhD workrooms. Every PhD student has a dedicated workspace with networked PC, and
 there are two dedicated graduate common rooms. The III is housed in LSE’s new Centre
 Buildings. The internationally renowned British Library of Political and Social Sciences has
 comprehensive coverage of social science subjects: books and journals, with extensive e-journal
 access. It also holds archive collections including Charles Booth’s maps and notebooks (now
 inscribed into UNESCO's Memory of the World Register), the Women’s Library, and specialist
 materials on, for example, social security, prostitution and sexual health.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 LSE’s 2030 Strategy aims to place us as the global convenor of influential debates on critical
 issues and at the forefront of advancing knowledge. Dovetailing with our own objectives (see
 Section 1), our world-leading research and impact activities are geared towards influencing
 policy, practice, and legislation, and using our findings to support the betterment of society,
 politically, economically, and socially. This, and our desire to meaningfully engage citizens
 globally, requires proactive dissemination of our research findings in myriad forms for diverse
 audiences. These external foci are complemented by our intellectual leadership activities that
 prioritise scholarly collaboration and exchange and contribute to disciplinary vitality.

 We accomplish our objectives of directly informing policy and practice through two key
 pathways: (i) user partnerships and consultancies; and (ii) expert advice. Our efforts to improve
 public understanding and to encourage meaningful engagement are achieved in our (iii) events,
 media, and public engagement pathway. Fostering intellectual debate and convening knowledge

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exchange occurs through (iv) national and international research collaborations; and (v)
 plenaries, keynotes, and invited seminars. Our disciplinary contributions are incorporated in the
 activity pathways relating to (vi) professional associations and learned society roles; (vii) other
 research leadership activities; and (viii) honours, prizes, and fellowships. These pathways are, of
 course, not mutually exclusive, and overlapping research and impact agendas are frequently
 employed across the UoA. We discuss and illustrate (i)–(viii) below.

 (i) User Partnerships and Consultancies

 We have engaged in more than 450 alliances with non-academic partners and more than 100
 consultancies. These partnerships typically provide research insights, mutual learning,
 intervention possibilities, and capacity-building, as the following examples illustrate.
 Collaborating with the StopWatch coalition (comprising academics, lawyers, young people and
 community stakeholders), Shiner’s research on stop and search, for example has championed
 external scrutiny which was endorsed by the Lammy Review (2017) into minority ethnic criminal
 justice outcomes. The UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund’s substantial funding of the
 STRiDE project provides capacity-building for researchers, third sector organisations and
 governments in research methods and policy analysis to build evidence-based dementia policy
 frameworks in Brazil, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Mexico, and South Africa (Comas-
 Herrera, Evans-Lacko, Freeman, Knapp, McDaid, Naci). Ishkanian’s writing partnership with
 Sisters Uncut activists has examined prefiguration and the translation of intersectional politics
 into activists’ organisational practices. Selected consultancy projects have included McKnight’s
 research for the Citizens Advice Bureau and Phillips’ work for the Inter-American Development
 Bank documenting data needs for understanding citizen security in Latin America and the
 Caribbean.

 (ii) Advice

 We count over 100 ongoing advisory roles and more than 150 instances of one-off expert
 evidence, illustrating our research expertise and influence in many policy fields, global,
 international, and national. Led by Mossialos, LSE Health was engaged by China’s Development
 Research Centre, for example, to develop recommendations for improving China’s
 pharmaceutical system. Regulatory reforms followed, aimed at improving accessibility and drug
 quality through infrastructure strengthening, market consolidation, stricter tendering criteria, and
 encouraging rational use and prescribing patterns, including a zero mark-up policy. Similarly,
 Knapp’s influence extended to highlighting the economic and wellbeing impacts of scaling up
 dementia care and treatment in an invited address at the G8 Dementia Summit, hosted by the
 UK and WHO. More broadly, CPEC have contributed to the WHO’s Global Dementia
 Observatory, as well as with scenario-modelling, piloting interventions, and informing risk-
 reduction guidelines.

 Exley engaged with the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
 Technology on higher education reform, and Plomien represented Poland in the European
 Commission Network of Experts on Gender Equality. McDaid supplied advice on optimal mental
 health promotion to the Finnish and Irish Governments and the OECD. Mossialos was chief
 advisor to the Greek Government, regional advisor to the WHO, Scientific Director for WHO
 Pan-European Commission on Health and Sustainable Development, and Co-Chair of a WHO
 Review Panel responding to public health, innovation, and intellectual property. McGuire and
 Oliver acted as expert witnesses in the case Cambie Surgeries Corporation v. Medical Services
 Commission of British Columbia. McDaid and Evans-Lacko’s advising UNICEF on child mental
 health issues, and Krpan’s sitting on the Nudge Lebanon Board of Trustees further underlines
 our global reach.

 Four UoA members have been appointed as Specialist Advisors to the: House of Commons
 Health and Care Committee for three different enquiries in 2016, 2018, and 2019 (Street); House
 of Lords Select Committee on Political Polling and Digital Media (Sturgis); the House of
 Commons Communities and Local Government Committee Inquiry into social care (Wittenberg);

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the House of Commons Women and Equalities Committee on the unequal impact of Covid-
 19 on minority ethnic groups (Platt).

 Gillespie provided advice on complaint analysis to the UK Minister for Patient Safety, Suicide
 Prevention and Mental Health, the UK cross-government complaints forum, Alberta’s Minister for
 Health, and several NHS and international hospitals. D. Lewis advised the UK Independent
 Commission for Aid Impact report on civil society assistance. Fernández advised Directors of
 Adult Social Care across all 32 London boroughs about their response to the Covid-19
 pandemic. Munro’s appointment to the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support
 Service’s board, and Burchardt’s on the Trussel Trust Hunger in the UK advisory group, are also
 illustrations of our expertise informing policy and practice at multiple levels.

 Further evidence of our reach can be seen from citations in parliamentary discussions: in oral
 evidence on the First 1000 Days of Life and perinatal mental health problems (CPEC), to a
 written question on child socio-economic status and free childcare (T. Campbell, Stewart), and in
 a Scottish Parliament debate on the economic impacts of autism (CPEC).

 (iii) Events, Media, and Public Engagement

 Our mission to inform understanding and facilitate meaningful public engagement is exemplified
 in our programme of events, podcasts, blogs and dialogue with media outlets. The LSE Festival
 Beveridge 2.0: Rethinking Beveridge for the 21st Century involved thirteen UoA researchers in a
 week-long series, including an event articulating how Atkinson, Abel-Smith, Townsend, and
 Webb had advanced understanding of the eradication of poverty (Burchardt, Hills, Jenkins,
 Platt). Street considered Will You Feel Better after Hospital Treatment?, Murphy The Future of
 Ageing, Dolan Is Higher Education Good for You?, and Stewart Education and the Giant of
 Ignorance. Grundy, Hills, Newburn and Power gave Charles Booth Centenary lectures, and
 Ishkanian addressed Beveridge’s five giants through a global lens.

 We have contributed to other events such as Black History Month’s Who’s Included? Black
 Women and the Workplace (Phillips, 2018) and organised the event What Does It Mean to Be
 British and Who Defines It? that brought in politician Diane Abbott and think-tank British Future
 director, Sunder Katwala, along with LSE, Essex and Birkbeck academics. Phillips was also a
 judge on the BBC Radio 4 Thinking Allowed/British Sociological Association Award for
 Ethnography 2014.

 LSE’s award-winning IQ podcasts using research to address timely political concerns have
 included Wenham’s What Does Gender Have to do with Pandemics?, Stewart’s How Can We
 End Child Poverty in the UK?, Hills and Platt’s What's the Future of the Welfare State?, and
 Dolan’s What’s the Secret to Happiness?. The What If seminar series jointly run by the
 Mannheim Centre for Criminology and the Howard League for Penal Reform subjects authors’
 outside-of-the-box ideas to peer review by discussants and the audience, followed by
 practitioner-public pamphlet dissemination (e.g. What If Imprisonment Were Abolished for
 Property Offences?).

 We engage energetically in knowledge exchange through various media, including more than
 250 blogs and podcasts. Our over 900 media interviews and articles include Hildebrandt’s with
 NBC on same-sex marriage legislation in China, D. Lewis’ Channel 4 interview on human rights
 in Bangladesh, and Wenham and Comas-Herrera’s interviews on Covid-19 across national and
 international radio and TV channels. Dolan presented Happy Ever After: Escaping the Myth of
 the Perfect Life at the 2019 Hay Festival. Shiner facilitated public understanding of stop and
 search practices by advising on a storyline in BBC1’s EastEnders.

 Activities such as (i)–(iii) above are informed by our research insights but are primarily tailored to
 non-academic audiences. Our commitment to lively scholarly debate, intellectual exchange, and
 discussion of advances in knowledge is enabled through multiple partnerships with research


                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues and in more formalised settings including through plenaries, keynotes, and invited
 seminars as now outlined below (iv)–(viii).

 (iv) National and International Research Collaborations

 Since REF2014, our many collaborations with leading global researchers have enriched our
 research through intellectual debate, interdisciplinarity, co-authorship of outputs and co-
 organisation of events, often supported through external funding (Section 3) or through
 affiliations in other HEIs. Other collaborations have fostered research engagement among BSc,
 MSc, and PhD students, providing potential pipelines to future studentships and research
 careers.

 Selected examples of national and international research collaborations which also contribute to
 disciplinary vitality include Fleckenstein’s research with the South Korean Institute for Welfare
 State Research culminating in a volume for Policy Press. Similarly, Özcan’s partnership with
 Poncini (Khalifa University) and Adnan (New York University Abu Dhabi) stimulated intellectual
 exchange on female labour force participation in the UAE with funding from the Emirates
 Foundation. Shiner has ongoing engagement with the Centre for Alcohol and Drug Research,
 Aarhus University, and Shutes is the co-ordinator of a work package involving a consortium of
 25 European universities as part of the bEUCitizen (Barriers Towards European Citizenship)
 Programme. Evans-Lacko leads the CHANCES-6 project, in collaboration with universities in
 Brazil, Columbia and South Africa, to understand the dynamics between poverty, mental health
 and future life-chances of young people from economically deprived backgrounds.

 The International Long-Term Care Policy Network was initiated and is still coordinated from
 CPEC; its biennial conferences attract researchers, policy-makers, and service providers from
 more than 40 countries. LSE Health is also partnering The Lancet in The Future of the NHS
 commission, co-ordinating inputs from medical, dental, nursing, pharmacy, and health
 economics researchers, as well as senior stakeholders from public health, NGOs, professional
 bodies, and patient/user organisations. Our prioritising of intellectual dialogue is underlined
 further by our hosting of over 120 academic visitors from more than 50 countries (see Section
 2).

 (v) Plenary, Keynotes and Invited Seminars

 The high number and wide range of invited presentations testify to UoA members’ standing in
 various disciplinary fields. Of the more than 350 plenary and keynote talks given, the selected
 examples below span our clusters, reflect broad geographical coverage, and emphasise
 representation of junior and mid-career staff. (We deliberately mention fewer senior UoA
 members even though, unsurprisingly, they receive more invitations.)

 •   Burchardt (2018) European Consortium for Social Work Research, Leuven: How Can a
     Capability Approach Inform Social Work Practice?
 •   Cheliotis (2015) Latin American Congress on Crime and Society, Argentina: Punishment and
     Political Systems: The Challenges of Democratisation
 •   Cornish (2015) Development Studies Association, Dublin: Why the Evidence Paradigm is
     Bad For International Development
 •   Costa-Font (2019) Center for Studies and Research in Pharmaceutical Economics University
     of Genoa: The Red Herring Hypothesis and the Effect of Ageing on the Health System
 •   Jackson (2015) Ellis MacDougall Lecture, Arizona University: On the Portability of
     Procedural Justice Theory: A Cross-national Comparative Analysis
 •   Jenkins (2017) International Conference on Inequality, Bologna: Poverty in the EU: The
     Anthony Atkinson Lecture
 •   King (2018) International Long-Term Care Policy, Vienna: Factors Associated with the Cost
     of Dementia
 •   Lordan (2019) Charted Institute of Personnel and Development conference: What Impact
     Could Behavioural Science Have on Diversity and Inclusion?

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Murphy (2015) European Society for Historical Demography: The Contribution of Mortality
     Change to Population Ageing
 •   Papanicolas (2016) TEDMED Foundation, California: Health System Efficiency: How to
     Make Measurement Matter for Policy and Management
 •   Parkhurst (2020) European Union Policy-Making Hub: The Politics of Evidence: from
     Evidence-Based Policy to the Good Governance of Evidence
 •   Shiner (2015) University of Amsterdam: Peers, Pupils or Participants: Models of Youth
     Engagement
 •   Sigle (2017) International Union for the Scientific Study of Population, Cape Town: Is Very
     Low Fertility Good or Bad for the Family, Gender and Societies?

 D. Lewis (Beyond the Silos? Rethinking the Social: Policy and Development Studies
 Relationship for the 21st Century, 2016), Dean (The Prospects for Radical Humanism in a Post-
 Social Era, 2018), and Phillips (Race, Racism and Social Policy, 2019) presented plenaries at
 the Social Policy Association annual conference.

 Reflecting our prioritising of scholarly exchange, we gave more than 650 seminar presentations
 at UK and other universities with the following selected examples demonstrating intellectual
 strengths across our research specialisms:

 •   Asaria (2018) Health Economics Study Group, University of Alberta: Addressing Health
     Equity Concerns in Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
 •   Biegert (2015) German-Israeli Foundation for Scientific Research and Development: Labor
     Market Institutions and Inequality in Employment
 •   Dixon (2106) School of Nursing, University of Auckland: Equity in End-of-Life Care: evidence
     from the UK.
 •   Hildebrandt (2019) Institute for Global Public Policy, Fudan University: The Future of
     Comparative Social Policy Under Austerity and State Downsizing: the UK-China Case
 •   Oliver (2018) Prague Center for Behavioural Experiments: Using Behavioural Economics to
     Inform Policy
 •   Shutes (2014) Centre on Migration Policy and Society, Oxford: ‘We're all Excluded Together':
     Work-related Conditionality and the Welfare Entitlements of UK Citizens, EEA Citizens and
     Non-EEA Citizens
 •   Seckinelgin (2019) George and Irina Schaeffer Center for the Study of Genocide, Human
     Rights and Conflict Prevention, American University of Paris: What are the Conditions of
     Thinking/Talking About the 1915 Armenian Genocide in Turkey?
 •   Sheely (2017) Humphry School of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota: Double Regulation
     of Poor Women? State Variation in Criminal Justice and Welfare Systems
 •   West (2018) Interdisciplinary Education Research Network, Berlin: The Expansion of
     ‘Private’ Schools in England, Sweden (Friskolor) and Eastern Germany: Policy Goals, Ideas
     and Political Parties

 (vi) Professional Association and Learned Society Roles

 Among leading roles sustaining disciplinary vitality are the elections of Sigle as President of the
 British Society for Population Studies and Jenkins succeeding Thomas Piketty as President-
 Elect of the Society for the Study of Economic Inequality. Such positions offer opportunities to
 directly promote social policy in cognate disciplinary fields, thereby broadening the terrain in
 which Social Policy can be influential.

 Le Grand is a Fellow of the British Academy and of the Academy of Social Sciences, as was
 Hills. They are joined in the latter by Knapp, Newburn, Platt, and Sturgis, and former colleagues
 Gaskell and Gough. Newburn and West are also Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts. Jenkins is
 a Distinguished Fellow of the New Zealand Association of Economists and Newburn served as
 Executive Counsellor for the American Society of Criminology Division of International
 Criminology and is an Honorary Member of the British Society of Criminology. Sturgis is an

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Honorary Life Fellow of the Market Research Society and Platt a Fellow of the European
 Academy of Sociology. Knapp was a Vice-President of the British Association for Counselling
 and Psychotherapy. We are active in the International Network for Social Policy Teaching and
 Research (D. Lewis).

 Recognising esteem and providing disciplinary service, Newburn has, as with RAE 2008, been
 selected for the REF2021 sub-Panel; he also served on the 2020 Hong Kong RAE Social
 Sciences Panel.

 (vii) Other Research Leadership Activities

 We have conducted more than 150 PhD external examinations and acted as external examiner
 for 20 BA/BSc and MA/MSc degree programmes. Our contributions to the promotion of Social
 Policy are actioned through various activities related to different aspects of the research process
 and these are now described. Each serve to maintain disciplinary vitality and sustainability.

 Grant Peer-Review

 Our members have been invited to advise national and international research councils and
 grants committees, including, for example, the British Academy, British Council, Canadian Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council, ERC, ESRC and UKRI Peer Review College,
 European Science Foundation, Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique (Belgium), Fonds de la
 Recherche Scientifique (Luxembourg), Forskningsrådet (Norway), Hong Kong Research Grants
 Council, Independent Social Research Foundation, International Union for the Scientific Study of
 Population Research Panel Pathways to Health, Irish Research Council, Israel Science
 Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, MRC, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, Nuffield
 Foundation, Marsden Fund (NZ), Riksbankens Jubileumsfond (Sweden), the UKRI/DHSC
 panels for Recovery, Renewal, Reset: Research to Inform Policy Responses to COVID-19 and
 the COVID-19 Rapid Response Initiative; and the US National Science Foundation.

 Scientific Advice

 Ongoing or one-off advice to organisations around the world demonstrates our commitment to
 enhancing knowledge of research users. For example, Seckinelgin is an international expert
 member of the L'agence de Recherche ANRS (France Recherche Nord & Sud Sida-HIV
 Hépatites) Social Science Research Committee. Sturgis advises the Wellcome Trust and
 chaired the European Social Survey Methodological Advisory Committee and their equivalents
 for Understanding Society and National Survey for Wales. Conteh is a member of WHO’s Drug
 Resistance and Elimination Technical Expert Group and Steering Committee for Global Malaria
 Technical Strategy. Knapp chaired an ESRC panel to commission research on global mental
 health. Platt participated in the Norwegian Research Council's national review of social science
 research and is on the international advisory committee of the German Socio-Economic Panel.
 Murphy chaired the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research’s Scientific Review Board.
 Jenkins is International Advisory Board member for Motu Research (NZ) and T. Campbell is a
 member of the Department for Education’s Associate Analytical Pool.

 UoA members regularly serve as advisors to research projects. For example, Ishkanian serves
 on the advisory board of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation Armenian Diaspora Survey
 Project. Kanya advises the Open Society Foundation Global Economics in Perinatal Mental
 Health study. Kumar has assisted the ERC study Laws of Social Reproduction in India, and
 Biegert, the EU FP7 project Strategic Transitions for Youth Labor in Europe.

 Organisation of Conferences, Workshops, and Symposia

 Scholarship development is further facilitated through our efforts to foster dialogue and debate in
 intellectual spaces. We hosted and organised conferences, workshops, and symposia. For
 example, with grants from the Friedrich Ebert and Robert Bosch Foundations, Ishkanian

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organised a workshop from which interviews, podcasts, photos, and articles have featured on
 the global media platform openDemocracy. Convening knowledge exchange and supporting
 junior scholars, Seckinelgin organised the Editors Panel Discussion on Publishing in Third
 Sector Studies at the 13th international conference in Amsterdam. Cheliotis convened the British
 Academy-funded Tracing the Relationship between Inequality, Crime and Punishment: Space,
 Time and Politics conference (2017) leading to an OUP edited volume. Bhatia, Fernández,
 Kanavos, McDaid, Mossialos, and Naci were on the organising committee of the International
 Health Policy Conference (2017).

 The Race Matters Symposium 2018 organised by Phillips fostered interdisciplinary debate
 across criminology, sociology, and the humanities, analysing race and criminal justice. The
 subsequent reinstituting of the British Society of Criminology’s Race Matters Network has
 enhanced disciplinary sustainability. CPEC coordinates the International Long-term Care Policy
 Network and organises its biannual international conference. Özcan organised the Low Fertility
 and Labor Markets conference sponsored by the Korean Institute of Health and Social Affairs
 (KIHASA) and East West Center Hawaii. ECR and junior scholars have been productive in this
 regard too, organising sessions at ESPANet (Biegert, Sheely) and other annual conferences.

 Editorships

 Reflecting our international standing, our staff have official editorial responsibilities for 33
 journals and 12 book series, and hold around 80 editorial board roles, spanning our core
 disciplines, interdisciplinary, and field journals. Major roles include:

 •   Behavioural Public Policy and Health Economics, Policy and Law Editor-in-Chief (Oliver)
 •   Evidence & Policy, Chair of Editorial Board (Parkhurst)
 •   Journal of Civil Society Editor-in-Chief (Seckinelgin)
 •   Journal of Economic Inequality Editor-in-Chief (Jenkins)
 •   Journal of Health Economics Lead Editor (Street)
 •   Journal of Long-Term Care Executive Editor (Fernández), Managing Editor (Clark)
 •   Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour Editor (Gillespie)
 •   Population Studies Editor (Myrskylä)

 Associate or deputy editor positions include: The British Journal of Criminology (Jackson),
 European Heart Journal (Mossialos), European Sociological Review (Platt), Globalisation and
 Health (Barlow), Health, Policy and Planning (Lagarde), Health Policy (Papanicolas), Health
 Systems and Reform (Mossialos), Journal of Education Policy (Exley), Journal of Long-Term
 Care (Comas-Herrera, Malley), Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series A and The Stata
 Journal (Jenkins), PLOSone (Jackson), Social Policy and Administration (Costa-Font) and Social
 Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology and Stigma and Health (Evans-Lacko).

 Guest editorial roles were undertaken by Cheliotis (South Atlantic Quarterly), Costa-Font (Fiscal
 Studies, Health Economics, Journal of Economic Behaviour), Newburn (European Journal of
 Criminology), Özcan (Advances in Life Course Research), Phillips (Theoretical Criminology),
 and Platt (Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies).

 We hold book series editorships with leading university presses: including OUP’s Clarendon
 Studies in Criminology (Newburn, Phillips); Palgrave Series on Crime, Media, Culture series
 Editor (Cheliotis); Routledge Series on Sociology & Politics of China (Hildebrandt); Key Ideas in
 Criminology (Newburn) and Key Thinkers in Criminology (Newburn) series; and the University of
 Alabama Press, NGOgraphies series (D. Lewis).

 (viii) Honours, Prizes and Fellowships

 Our leading scholarship has been recognised nationally and internationally through prestigious
 awards. Le Grand received a knighthood in the 2015 New Year's Honours list for services to
 social sciences and public service. In 2020, Platt was awarded an OBE for services to social

                                                                                                    Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sciences. Newburn is Official Historian of criminal justice. Honorary doctorates were conferred
 on Hills (University of Birmingham), Knapp (Kings College London), and Mossialos (University of
 Athens).

 Disciplinary peers have also rewarded the quality of our research through recognition in the
 award of the following selected prizes:

 •   Cheliotis: Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences Gerhard O.W. Mueller Award of the
     International Section
 •   Goisis, Özcan and Myrskylä: Science of National Child Development Study Outstanding
     Contribution prize
 •   Ishkanian: Voluntas: International Society for Third Sector Research Best Paper Prize
 •   Myrsklä: Finnish Academy of Science and Letters Jutikkala Prize
 •   Newburn: British Society of Criminology Policing Network Prize

 Since REF2014, our members have been awarded several honorary fellowships, including the
 Brocher Fellowship (Naci), Harkness Fellowship (Papanicolas, Naci, Costa Font), Health
 Foundation Fellowship (Asaria), NIHR Doctoral Fellowship (Stevens), and Oxford
 University/Bank of Italy Jemolo Fellowship (Özcan). Newburn is a Fellow of the Howard League
 for Penal Reform.

 Other honorary and visiting professorships include: University of Essex Visiting Professor and
 Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research Honorary Professorial Fellow
 (Jenkins), Humboldt Fritz Karsen Visiting Professor (West), UCL Visiting Professor (Platt), Hong
 Kong University Visiting Professor (Knapp). Other visiting roles include: Center for Global
 Development (Friebel); Fudan School of Social Development and Public Policy (Hildebrandt),
 Helsinki Center for Population, Health and Society (Murphy), Institut D'études Avancées de Paris
 (Seckinelgin), University of Chicago (Mossialos), Carlos III University, Madrid, University of
 Essex and Institute for Fiscal Studies (Platt), University of Verona (Park) and Yale Law School
 (Jackson).




                                                                                           Page 23
