Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of the West of Scotland
 Unit of Assessment: 7: Earth Systems and Environmental Science
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure of research
 UOA7 represents 13 staff headcount (12.4 FTE) working across disciplines and schools with a
 focus on impactful research that addresses 11 of the 15 UN Sustainable Development Goals
 (SDGs). Key areas of our research include sustainable consumption and production through the
 reduction of chemical waste and the emergence of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in the
 environment and the sustainability of aquatic environments by improving aquaculture practice and
 reducing pollution. Our research in environment and human health links with the UWS UOA3
 submission and our work in environmental and process engineering directly links to UOA12. Staff
 in UOA7 are located within the academic schools of Health and Life Sciences (HLS) (Division of
 Biological Sciences & Health) and Computing, Engineering & Physics (CEPS) (Division of Physical
 Sciences), brought together under the umbrella Institute of Biomedical & Environmental Health
 Research (IBEHR). Most staff in UOA7 were historically in an earlier School prior to the creation
 of HLS and CEPS in 2018. This rearrangement facilitated expansion of laboratory facilities and
 infrastructure while encouraging cross-disciplinary research to continue through IBEHR. IBEHR
 consists of four research groups; staff from UOA7 are associated with two of these, the Centre for
 Environmental Research (CER) and the Infection & Microbiology Group (IM).

 1.2 Research Objectives
 1.2.1 Review of REF 2014 and Current REF Period
 In REF 2014, research in Earth & Environmental Sciences underpinned a strong institutional
 submission to UOA3, contributing academic staff (Hursthouse), external funding, highly rated
 research outputs and two impact case studies (ICS) (“Risk Assessment in Public Health” Gagnon,
 Hursthouse and “Improved Eye Care Solutions and Medicines for the Prevention and Cure of
 Acanthamoeba keratitis” Henriquez), acknowledged to incorporate “considerable/very
 considerable reach and significance in environmental policy and management research and
 engagement”. Our activities focused on three key strategic themes: Health, Society and
 Sustainability and across these, our research drew on interdisciplinary collaborations. Since 2014,
 we have consolidated our distinctive research and developed strong internal collaborations to
 support wider societal engagement. In REF2014 (UOA3), we identified the CER and IM groups,
 with a focus on environment and human health and organism-environment interactions as part of
 the overarching IBEHR. We committed to grow staff numbers and further develop a vibrant
 interdisciplinary community.

 During the review period, staff have built and sustained collaboration between physical and life
 sciences with substantial externally funded work programmes, e.g. AMR in the real world,
 aquaculture, and waste and environmental management. We make significant contributions to
 UWS interdisciplinary initiatives such as membership of the flagship Protracted Crisis Research
 Centre, contributing to British Academy GCRF projects on waste in informal communities
 (Hursthouse, Ewins) and have made substantial contributions to several Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership (KTP) projects, supporting growth across UWS and contributing to outputs and
 impact.

 The growth of research in environmental sciences has extended to present for REF2021 a
 collaborative team (5 x Prof, 4 x SL/Reader, 4 x Lecturer) from across physical and life sciences
 with a focus on earth, waste and environmental ecological science and engineering. In the review
 period, our team along with 8 PDRAs/technicians/RAs and 26 Postgraduate Research (PGR)
 students have addressed research focused on multiple stressors, human biotic interactions and
 resource exploitation, mitigation and management. Activity has produced 246 peer review articles
 since 2014, gaining 3,459 citations. These include results from collaboration with international
 partners in Europe, Africa, North America and Asia, with industrial partners, government
 regulators and policy-focused NGOs. Staff and PGR students are active in the Scottish Funding
 Council (SFC) research pools (SAGES, MASTS, SULSA) including serving on executive and
 management groups.
                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Funding has included GBP1,744,891 of awards from Innovate UK, BBSRC, NERC, GRCF, SAIC,
 DEFRA, Marine Scotland Science (MSS), Scottish Government, Scottish Enterprise and
 major international industrial sponsors including Skretting, STEMCOR/Tata/Arcelor Mittal,
 Scotia Mining & Exploration, Mowi, Scottish Salmon Company, Scottish Sea Farms, Kames
 Fish Farming Ltd, Mars Inc, Aquasense and the Fish Vet Group (Benchmark Animal Health),
 Baxters Food Group, Hydroklear Services Ltd, ODS Ltd and several charitable organisations
 and learned societies.

 1.2.2 Strategy: Next Five Years
 UWS' research vision is to deliver transformational change through ground-breaking research that
 has tangible, early and positive global impacts on society and the environment. We fully support
 and are committed to on-going development of our researchers through an inclusive approach, in
 particular focussing on early career researchers (ECRs), and academics seeking to further
 develop their research goals. We continue to deliver doctoral research opportunities across all
 disciplines under the umbrella of applied, transformative, and ethical research. Staff within UOA7
 have a significant international outlook and continue to grow academic capability to meet societal
 challenges aligned with UWS’ strategic commitment to the UN SDGs.

 Our strategy focuses on developing collaborative solutions to societal problems with internal and
 international partnerships and between academic disciplines, business, and policy areas. In line
 with the UWS Corporate Strategy 2025, our research maps onto 11 UN SDGs and includes:
 managing waste and toxin emission to air, water, and land in urban and rural systems and both
 terrestrial and aquatic environments [SDGs 2; 3; 6; 14; 15]; developing more sustainable
 innovative industrial processes and resilient economic growth [SDGs 9; 11; 12] and supporting
 effective partnerships to address policy and institutional buy in, sharing best practice globally
 [SDGs 13; 17]. Areas of research where signature research will continue to be developed include:

    Aquaculture – fish health and welfare, disease mitigation
    Ecology and pollution – contaminated land, environmental stressors in aquatic systems,
     emergence of antimicrobial resistance
    Land, waste, air – pollutant transport, regulation and mitigation
    Industry and business – environmental sustainability, industrial ecology, resource efficiency
    Strategic partnerships, collaboration and external engagement e.g., for environmental policy
     (with Environmental Protection Scotland), training (Ph.D. partnership with Hamburg University
     of Applied Sciences), professional development, regional environmental strategy (research
     programme at a Regional Key Lab in Hunan University of Science & Technology, China).

 We are committed to pursuing the development of these contributions, engaging staff and PGR
 students in income generation and impact development. External partnerships will be supported
 by experienced staff and internal collaborative contributions, to ensure current capacity is
 maintained and growth facilitated through shared experience. We will maintain a focus on funding
 opportunities, international partnerships, and academic-industry collaboration.

 1.3 Achievement of impact
 Enhance business/industry links
 We have collaborative partnerships with business and industry, responding to opportunities
 highlighted through a variety of sources including Interface Partnership enquiries, and local
 industrial networks in innovation centres and we support the strategic drive by UWS to develop
 world-leading impactful research. During the REF2021 review period, UWS has risen to a position
 as #1 in Scotland (2020) for KTP awards and among top 3 in the UK. UOA7 leads collaborations
 on awards looking at waste reduction in the food and drink sector (ICS2) (copper removal from
 distillery waste: Hydroclear Services Ltd – Hursthouse), (innovation in food waste management:
 Baxters Food Group - McLellan, Hursthouse, Kelly; new product development from waste soft
 fruit: Colbeggie Fruits Ltd & Abertay, and waste recovery from fish nets – WJKnox Ltd & Abertay
 – Schaschke) and we collaborate across Schools in more recently introduced management KTP
 (mKTP) projects, addressing resource efficiency in clothing supply (ACS Clothing – Hursthouse)
                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and developing innovative environmental services (Albion Environmental – Hursthouse). These
 provide opportunity to develop experience of research leadership for ECRs and facilitate increased
 research engagement and performance. UWS is now #1 mKTP University in the UK, representing
 25% of all mKTP projects.

 Our industrial focus in aquaculture, supported by 100% of Scottish salmon producers (and
 multinational partners), has developed and is commercialising innovative, rapid, non-lethal blood-
 based methods to assess fish health, replacing lethal histopathology (ICS1). Alongside this we
 have an aquaculture based KTP (Kames Fish Farming Ltd – Quinn, Sloman, Henriquez)
 integrating the use of routine blood-based monitoring for continuous fish health assessment and
 provided welfare expertise to a KTP looking at fish vaccination (Aqualife – Sloman). Collaborating
 with groups in Computing/AI and the School of Business & Creative Industries we work with a not-
 for-profit company to establish a sustainable model for aquaponics in Rwanda, funded by Innovate
 UK. Development of natural plant-based pest controls looking at weevils on Skye Highlands and
 Islands Council and NEEMCo Ltd. (Thacker) led to our involvement in Scotland’s first African
 AgriFood KTP with Mount Kenya University (Thacker, Hursthouse) addressing novel pest
 management products for high value fruit crops.

 Collaboration and networks
 We maintain a productive membership with SFC research pools (SAGES, MASTS, SULSA),
 supporting the growth of our PGR student cohort and in developing new staff who have benefited
 from the MASTS SUPER-DTP (NERC) studentships either currently in progress or with funding
 secured (Orton, Alexander, Henriquez). Research pools have facilitated opportunities for Ph.D.
 students to develop international industrial connections (SULSA; SAGES) along with networking
 and CPD opportunities. Our UWS-German Partner joint Ph.D. programme continues to run after
 a decade of collaborations with a number of staff from CER (see 2.6).

 Staff led on major initiatives addressing emerging societal issues. Tackling AMR is a cross-council
 initiative, responding to the UK Government’s 2013-2018 strategy; our activity has focused on
 theme 3: Understanding real world interactions (NERC; Henriquez, Hursthouse, Williams). This
 is continuing with local and international collaborations focused on specific industrial and policy
 challenges in an interdisciplinary project funded under the India-UK AMR initiative in collaboration
 with the DBT India (NERC UK-India Henriquez, Hursthouse). This acts as a nucleus for further
 national and international collaboration. We continue to maintain strong links with Dr Silva-Pereira
 (ITQB, Lisbon) with research linking microbiological interactions in disturbed soil systems (carried
 forward from UOA3 REF2014), in a multi-partner FCT (Portugal) funded initiative FATE
 (Hursthouse). We are partners in a NERC Citizen Science study (PI Entwistle, Northumbria)
 addressing the chemical-microbiological link to AMR in the HomeBiome (Hursthouse), and in a
 recent award from the Royal Society of Edinburgh SAPHIRE (Ward, Strathclyde) which
 establishes a Scotland-wide network of research teams tackling AMR in the environment. Linking
 our expertise in AMR with our expertise in fish welfare, a recently awarded project will work with
 Mars Petcare on effectiveness of antimicrobials within the ornamental fish trade (Sloman,
 Henriquez, Alexander).

 Cross-UWS initiatives include contributions to the Centre for Protracted Displacement, securing
 BA-GCRF Grant (UWB190022) Waste Water & Wellbeing in Dharavi (Jeffery PI, Ewins,
 Hursthouse) to address the link between society, economy, and waste in informal recycling.
 Collaboration with the BREATH (Border & Regions Airway Training Hub) project (McLellan) links
 UOA3 and UOA7 in addressing the role of environmental factors (air quality) in respiratory disease.
 It works towards a preventative approach to an incurable lung disease prevalent within regions of
 Scotland where UWS has campuses. This EU LIFE programme project crosses Scotland-Ireland
 geographies, fully integrating biomedical and environmental health research.

 Hursthouse has been appointed to successive fellowships at HNUST, China (2014 Hunan
 Government, 2015 Chinese Government, 2016-2020 as 100 Talent Expert by Hunan Government)
 to develop academic research impact associated with a Key Lab in Shale Gas Exploitation –
 specifically in resource exploitation and mitigation. This has resulted in significant stakeholder
                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement – policy and regulatory support in water and environmental management in Chinese
 local government and UK wide in the development and construction sector (ICS2).

 We are also involved in conservation-orientated projects within the aquatic environment. Sloman
 and Alexander are part of an international collaboration researching the return of fish communities
 to restored reefs in Indonesia, working with academics from Hasanuddin University (Indonesia),
 Florida International University and with industrial support from Mars Sustainable Solutions. Work
 on the conservation of UK amphibians is led by Orton in collaboration with Scottish Natural
 Heritage and academics from the University of Exeter.

 1.3.1 Impact Case Studies and Impact Approach
 We receive central UWS support for proactive engagement with potential stakeholders.
 Hursthouse brings a track-record of innovative industry interaction, initiated in the late 1990s,
 focused on SME engagement to problem-solve technology development and environmental
 performance. This experience supports research activities in the group to engage stakeholders
 from an early stage, inform direction and maximise wider societal impact. This strategy underpins
 our ICSs and ensures our future development continues to address UN SDGs and opens a global
 context to target potential impacts.

 Research on the health and welfare of aquatic animals is a major impact focus within UOA7,
 drawing on expertise from a range of academic staff. All projects within this area involve industrial
 partners, ensuring our science is beneficial to industry with economic and societal impact. Our
 ICS ‘Improving Health and Welfare of Animals in Aquaculture’ (ICS1) brings together three
 areas of impact, focusing on salmonid aquaculture, shrimp aquaculture and the ornamental trade.
 Funded projects involve collaborations between staff (salmonid aquaculture: Quinn, Alexander,
 Henriquez, Sloman; shrimp aquaculture: Alexander, Sloman; ornamental trade: Sloman,
 Henriquez, Alexander, McLellan) and schools. Looking forward we are committed to expanding
 these areas and involve additional members of the group; e.g., Cowie will join the shrimp
 aquaculture project providing expertise in shrimp physiology. Outputs include industrial partners
 as authors. Several studentships have received joint funding from UWS, as a mechanism for
 driving impact in this area forward. All studentships within this area have included ECRs (noting
 that career trajectories have moved forward in the REF period), providing a supportive and
 inclusive research environment.

 The challenge of pollution control and preservation of environmental quality in the aquatic
 environment is a major burden on industry and environmental regulators. Underpinning treatment
 trials for our ICS Making industrial waste work and safeguarding global environments (ICS2)
 focus on geochemical principles governing contaminant behaviour in complex media. In identifying
 and evaluating the mechanisms of interaction and performance of new materials, the validation of
 treatment approaches gave confidence in the strategies applied in industrial processes for waste
 capture and reduction of effluent discharges. This led to new approaches to resource recovery in
 Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment management, supported by international networks
 translating into advanced training and upskilling programmes for end users in the UK and
 overseas.

 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 Most of our outputs are co-authored with individuals from different schools, disciplines, and
 external organisations. These demonstrate the inherently interdisciplinary approach of our
 research. Collaboration is fundamental to many of our external partnerships and thematic
 development. We highlight a number of interdisciplinary partnerships (see 1.3) and major societal
 challenges being addressed in international projects are built on interdisciplinary working. For
 example, our studies of AMR in the real world include underpinning collaboration between
 Physical and Biological Sciences to aid in the identification and assessment of significance but
 also include engineering and technology development for remedial strategies. Overlying this is a
 policy and societal context, which crosses cultural as well as organisational boundaries and brings
 opportunity to influence and direct positive change. UOA7 staff lead an interdisciplinary, cross-
 school project in Human-Animal Interaction, investigating benefits of fish aquaria to human health
                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and well-being (involving staff from UOAs 3, 20, 24). Our interdisciplinary work monitoring shrimp
 behaviour in aquaculture involves colleagues from UOA11 in developing systems for recording
 shrimp in turbid conditions. From April 2020, staff engaged in interdisciplinary COVID-related
 research, including assessment of antimicrobial/antiviral surfaces (with UOA3) and development
 of effective reusable face-coverings (with UOA24).

 1.5 Open Research Environment
 The University has in place resources and support for compliance with REF open access policies,
 via centralised Research Services and the University Library. Where practicable, open access
 (OA) routes to publication are favoured and supported by the school [including funding publication
 processing charges, and recommending publishers who facilitate reduced or no-cost OA
 arrangements (green route)]. Our research is available through the University’s research portal,
 PURE, and working with the library we are committed to ensuring all outputs are publicly available.
 We aspire to openness of research data, and aim to meet the requirements of funders (e.g.,
 NERC) even when not instructed, of ensuring research projects have data management plans in
 place, whilst acknowledging commercial sensitivities of industrial work.

 1.6 Research Integrity
 UWS publishes a code of ethics, embodied operationally in a University Ethics Committee (UEC),
 reporting to Senate. School-level ethics committees are responsible for the development and
 embedding of an ethics culture for research activities. It is mandated that all research be
 scrutinised for ethical dimensions and where required subjected to ethical approval. UOA7 work
 is overseen by its relevant school committee and is guided by the UEC to ensure practice at the
 school level is consistent across the university. Working within the oversight of various institutes
 of Professional practice, we are held to high standards of professional conduct and integrity. This
 is borne out through the professional accreditation of our taught programmes that incorporate
 significant elements of research-informed teaching, and student dissertation work. UWS supports
 adherence to the Concordat on Research Integrity and Open Data and is a signatory of the
 Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA).

 2. People

 2.1 Staff Development Strategy
 Commitment to staff development is evidenced through a collaborative annual process that
 highlights where staff would like to enhance their skills. UWS is fully committed to the UK
 Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers which sets out clear standards
 that research staff can expect from the University. UWS has a staff development programme in
 which UOA7 staff (including RAs) have participated both as participants and as co-creators and/or
 trainers. All programmes are designed according to the Athena Swan charter and support family-
 friendly policies.

 2.2 Staffing and Recruitment
 Recruitment strategy across the two schools recognises the need to balance resources with
 portfolio development and expertise to support accredited programmes. We have recruited staff
 from a wide range of backgrounds and experiences, including an UWS alumnus moving from
 public policy sector to an academic role. Since 2014, there have been several
 appointments/promotions, which have greatly expanded the remit of CER and strengthened links
 with IM. These include new lectureship positions (Alexander, Cowie, McLellan, Orton),
 alongside promotions to SL (Alexander, McLellan) and Professor (Quinn, Henriquez, Sloman).
 Three staff have departed in the review period and we have had eight PDRA/RA contracts
 supporting the work of externally funded research projects. We have developed and retained
 PDRA staff (two returning PDRA on separate contracts).

 2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers (ECR)
 UOA7 has a balance of senior and less experienced staff. We prioritise junior colleagues for
 internal support for doctoral studentships and mentoring from experienced colleagues through
 formal mechanisms. Wider support includes a Staff Forum for Research launched in June 2018
                                                                                        Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to bring together new researchers at UWS, foster cross-school partnerships and build networks to
 encourage multi-disciplinary projects and funding bids. Junior staff benefit from further training
 opportunities; the UWS Crucible and Grant Accelerator Programmes target specific aspects of
 career development. Staff in UOA7 have engaged in development of grant writing skills (Grant
 Accelerator- 2018 Williams, McLellan; Mentors Hursthouse, Quinn), academia-industry links
 (PROPEL 2018 Williams), interdisciplinary skills (UWS Crucible 2017 McLellan, Mentors
 Henriquez, Hursthouse, Quinn) and Leadership skills (Future Research Leaders, Henriquez,
 Quinn, Sloman). Staff have competitively won places in external development programmes.
 Quinn and Alexander on the Scottish Crucible (in 2015, 2019, respectively) and Henriquez
 membership of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Young Academy of Scotland. Participation in these
 programmes has had a positive impact on achieving successful career trajectories and increasing
 our external networks. Contract based PDRA and RA staff are supported by UWS through funding
 to bridge time gaps between external projects and contract extensions during COVID-19 to cover
 time when laboratory access was not possible. PDRA staff are encouraged to lead and write grant
 proposals (e.g., named author on SAIC funded grant SL_2018_01).

 Staff activity is managed through quantitative activity planning and the ‘MyContribution’ process.
 Research is a clearly identified activity aligned to UWS objectives and enabling plans. The
 minimum, default allowance is 10% of activity for research, and is in general greater across the
 whole staff group. Allowances bring responsibility, related to objective setting for publication,
 supervision, and funding applications. This approach offers flexibility, and in many cases, time-
 based support for varying intensities of research. More research active staff have additional time
 allocation for research. This acknowledgement of research activity is further leveraged by
 institutional facilitation, particularly for ECRs, for whom time for research is proactively protected.

 2.4 Academia – Industry Exchange
 The strategic focus of UWS is for useful and impacting research. The university provides
 centralised support for innovation and industry engagement including a dedicated KTP centre (see
 1.3). All members of UOA7 are involved in delivering KTP projects, CPD and responding to
 innovation enquiries through Interface (SFC sponsored innovation hub for academic-industry
 partnership). Many of our research projects involve industrial partners and include PGR, ECR and
 experienced staff ensuring future development of successful partnerships. PGR students often
 have industrial supervisors and are actively encouraged to invest time working with their industrial
 sponsor.

 2.5 Research and Impact Rewards
 The Staff Appreciation and Reward Scheme (STARS) recognises outstanding staff contribution.
 This collegiate nomination scheme has to date seen eight researchers nominated from UOA7,
 one receiving ‘Excellence Award for Research & Enterprise’. The UWS student body also
 recognise staff contributions and one member of staff, nominated by PhD students in UOA7,
 received the 2019 award for Outstanding Achievement. Externally, through the commercialisation
 of the aquaculture fish health diagnostic research, Quinn was the winner of the European
 Aquaculture Society (EAS) Innovation Forum award 2019 and was a Converge Challenge and
 Kickstart Finalist (2020) and recipient of the HATCH Irish Aquaculture Accelerator Programme,
 (2020). In 2017, Hursthouse was awarded the Liancheng Friendship Award “to commend foreign
 experts who have made outstanding contributions to the development of Xiangtan City and foreign
 exchanges”. In 2018 the collaboration between UWS and HNUST was shortlisted for the Times
 Higher Education Award for “International Collaboration of the Year”.

 2.6 Research Students
 Since REF2014, UOA7 staff have overseen 26 successful doctoral completions (11 submitted for
 REF4a) equating to approximately 2 per FTE staff. There are an additional 26 doctoral students
 in progress within the UOA, with an additional four starting in February 2021, representing an
 overall growth in numbers. Successful doctoral completions are 50:50 male:female, with a similar
 ratio for current students. The majority of our students are fully or part-funded by external sources
 including industry (e.g. STEMCOR, Mars Inc., Skretting, Aquasense, Fish Vet Group, Marine
 Scotland Science, DEFRA), with UWS providing part or match-funding as part of the UWS
                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studentship scheme. Students co-funded in this way benefit from links to the real-world application
 of their research and engage with industrial partners as part of their supervisory team. Other
 studentship funding includes the MASTS-DTP (NERC), Marine Scotland Science, The Carnegie
 Trust and international students who are self-funded. Recent (2019/20) changes in SAAS funding
 have encouraged a small and growing number of students from our undergraduate cohort to
 pursue M.Res. Degrees.

 We have a strong relationship with Hamburg University of Applied Sciences and a number of other
 German institutions, collaborating on jointly supervised Ph.D. projects (Hursthouse, Kelly &
 McLellan) hosted in partner institutions. The collaboration, established in 2009 has seen seven
 successful completions and contributed collaborative peer review outputs. Research includes
 ecotoxicology of persistent and emerging pollutants, to biomass, waste and biotechnology for
 energy recovery. Currently six students are progressing under this model, including two funded as
 part of the PANORAMA MCSF-ITN on rare earth element behaviour in the environment.
 PANORAMA is a programme of 15 fellowships in which HAW and UWS are members of a pool of
 European centres of excellence (UWS supervision: Hursthouse, McLellan).

 PGR students have access to UWS training courses (e.g., academic writing, the Researcher
 Development Framework, research dissemination and impact, research ethics), and additional
 training opportunities are available dependent on studentship funding. For example, MASTS DTP
 and SAGES Grad School member students attend writing retreats to support progress in thesis
 and publication output. EU COST networks have provided thematic collaboration and
 opportunities for PGR and ECR staff to network and undertake short-term scientific missions to
 partner institutes including COST Action TU1201 (2013-2016) on urban allotment gardens, and
 ES1407 (2015-2019) European network for innovative recovery strategies of rare earth and other
 critical metals from electric and electronic waste. PGR students are encouraged to participate in
 undergraduate teaching and are provided with training in support of this activity.

 Confirmation of successful transfer from M.Phil. to Ph.D. occurs via a transfer event at 12-18
 months, comprising a written report, discussion with an internal assessor and oral presentation.
 To maximise success of our PGR students, progress is monitored through a PGR platform
 allowing students, supervisors, assessors and the Doctoral College to track progress. All students
 are required to submit a research proposal within 12 weeks of starting followed by progress reports
 and meetings at 6 months, 1 year, and then on an annual basis. The lead supervisor and internal
 assessor provide independent comment on progress at these time points, and students are given
 the opportunity to discuss problems confidentially in the absence of their supervisor. PGR Division
 Coordinators within HLS and CEPS, also support students and have oversight of progress from
 enrolment through to degree conferment.

 PGR students and their supervisory teams are further supported by the Doctoral College,
 established in 2018 (formerly the Graduate School) to provide a collegiate, interdisciplinary
 research environment underpinned by the three pillars of “Behaviours, Interactions and
 Wellbeing”. The multidisciplinary doctoral training programme is aligned to the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. ECRs are supported and actively encouraged to take on PGR
 supervision, mentored by experienced academics and are provided with initial training. Given the
 impact of COVID-19 on PGR research, UWS has facilitated funding extensions and supported a
 return to COVID-safe research environments where possible.

 PGR students attend seminars provided within their School and/or Division, which are advertised
 across schools to facilitate cross-discipline participation. PGR students are involved in the annual
 UWS Learning, Teaching and Research conference, submitting lay summaries in year 1, posters
 in year 2 and 3-minute thesis presentations in year 3. Entries are assessed competitively with the
 winner of the 3-minute thesis presentation proceeding to the national-level competition. Combining
 student presentations within the UWS conference provides integration of PGR students within the
 UWS academic community. Final year PGR students are also expected to present their work at
 least one international conference with funds to support this provided by industrial sponsors or the
 School.
                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.7 Equality and Diversity
 The UWS strategy highlights an institutional focus on wellbeing and commitment to equality,
 diversity and inclusion. UWS holds a Bronze Athena Swan award and the HR Excellence in
 Research Award, which recognises commitment to achieving the UK Concordat’s principles,
 setting clear standards that research staff can expect from the University. In 2016 UWS became
 Stonewall Diversity Champions and continue to embed equality, diversity and inclusion through
 all aspects of the institution. In addition UWS is a Disability Confident employer.

 In terms of gender balance within UOA7, four of the 13 academic staff are female, representing
 lecturing, senior lecturing and professoriate staff. In addition, gender balance within our successful
 doctoral students who have completed within the REF period are 50% female and 50 % male.

 Our institutional inclusive approach to well-being, family friendly and carer initiatives facilitates
 flexible working which has been of particular importance in response to COVID-19. During the
 REF period, staff members have taken maternity leave and shared parental leave. Staff are also
 supported to attend, for example adoption related panel meetings or other family related leave.
 Staff were supported to return part-time and also by either a small IBEHR fund (pre-Returner’s
 fund) or by the UWS Returner’s fund initiative.

 Each school has an EDI lead and an EDI champion in each division. All staff enrol on unconscious
 bias training and there is support for career advancement prior to promotion calls. UOA7 staff sit
 on the committee of the staff LGBT+ group, Liberty. UOA7 staff and students participated in the
 Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team (co-chair and members) for a departmental Bronze award
 (previously School of Science and Sport) and institutional Bronze Award. Despite the unsuccessful
 departmental application, the action plan and areas of good practice have been further developed
 in conjunction with the UWS strategy for EDI. One female staff member served as Athena Swan
 panellist (2018, 2019). Resubmission of the Athena Swan departmental application was delayed
 due to division of the School of Science & Sport. Future applications in respective schools are
 planned for 2022.

 At all levels UWS proactively supports and promotes equality and diversity, with a number of
 initiatives that support career progression, enshrining the principles of EDI. Staff have participated
 in the 2017 Future Research Leaders initiative. This led to all staff who had taken part in this
 programme being promoted to Professor this included both males and females (see 2.3). One
 Professor has undertaken an Advance HE Programme in ‘Preparing for Strategic Leadership’ in
 support of her interim role as Assistant Dean in Education, during the School merger (2018-2019).

 The university actively promotes a culture of flexible working supported across both. Before
 COVID-19, the University/Schools recognised the need for different working patterns to meet the
 variety of staff circumstances. During COVID-19 staff and PGR students have been offered
 support for remote working. Arrangements for research and other responsibilities were facilitated
 to ensure as much flexibility as possible in response to issues such as caring responsibilities,
 illness, and disabilities. Access to campus was actioned in a timely and consistent manner with
 health and safety at the forefront of decision-making.

 REF preparations have been approached with equality, diversity and inclusion in mind. The UWS
 REF code of practice was developed with particular attention to colleagues with individual
 circumstances and requests for consideration were open to late January 2021 and processed
 through a confidential system separate from individual units. The peer-review process of REF
 output submissions included an equal number of male and female reviewers and fair distribution
 of outputs to review.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Income and Funding Strategy
 During the period of assessment UOA7 staff secured GBP1,744,891 as actual income to the
 university, accepting this does not include in-kind contributions or reflect contributions as Co-Is to
 projects led by staff outside UOA7.
                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our aquaculture-based diagnostic work was first awarded funding in 2016 and by 2020 had raised
 >GBP2,000,000 (including industry in-kind contributions). This work involves all salmon producers
 in Scotland and is being commercialised through the Scottish Enterprise High Growth Spinout
 Programme (company spinout September 2021). Funding has included a BBSRC grant focused
 on high throughput immunology and haematology for assessing fish health (Quinn, Henriquez),
 three grants from SAIC (Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre) looking at diagnostic techniques
 to monitor fish health (Quinn, Henriquez), causes of failed fish (Quinn) and optimisation of
 thermal delousing (Quinn, Alexander, Sloman) and a grant from the CEFAS Seafood Innovation
 Fund (Quinn, Alexander) on the clinical significance of blood biochemical parameters in salmonid
 aquaculture. This research was complemented by an award from the Fish Vet Group supporting
 identification of antimicrobial targets for the effective management of amoebic gill disease in
 cultured fish (Henriquez). The strategy for taking this work forward includes a High-Growth
 Spinout Programme grant (Quinn, Henriquez, Alexander) for the development of rapid
 diagnostics to assess fish health. Work on shrimp aquaculture consisted of two projects part-
 funded by Skretting ARC (Sloman, Alexander) looking at feeding behaviour of Pacific white-leg
 shrimp. Work on fish welfare during live transport in the ornamental trade (Sloman, Henriquez,
 Alexander, McLellan) has been sponsored by Mars Inc. as a variety of projects throughout the
 REF period.

 We are recognised as world leaders in the field of amoeba biology and in particular of the free-
 living amoeba Acanthamoeba keratitis that can cause a severe, life-altering infection in the human
 cornea, transmitted through environmental contamination (UOA3-ICS3). This has recently been
 patented and global collaborations are developing with other researchers, water industry and
 healthcare industries. We are expanding our research into the role of Acanthamoeba in harbouring
 potential pathogens in the environment and contributing to AMR emergence, supported by a
 programme integration NERC grant (Rodgers, Henriquez) and a GCRF project in the extreme
 environments of the altiplano, Argentina (Henriquez, Carnicelli in UOA24). The group has
 received a variety of awards from the Carnegie Trust including a PhD studentship (Williams,
 Henriquez) with the aim of characterising novel drug targets and support for work evaluating the
 essentiality and druggability of Leishmania hydroxylsteroid dehydrogenase (Williams),
 additionally supported by a Kuwait government-sponsored PhD (Williams).

 A developing area within the group considers the environmental effects of contaminants with a
 grant from Scottish Natural Heritage on impacts of diffuse pollution on Natterjack toads (Orton).
 This has recently been expanded with a DEFRA funded PhD studentship developing and
 validating biomarkers of chemical contamination in UK frogs (Orton) and a Carnegie award on
 microplastic contamination of small water bodies and common toads in Scotland (Orton).

 Increasing momentum in our AMR research is built upon a strategic interdisciplinary relationship
 between CER and IM, bringing together microbiologists, geochemists and environmental
 researchers (Henriquez, Hursthouse, Williams), with researchers in public health and policy in
 UOA20. The unit has created strong links with other universities and stakeholders (SEPA and
 2030 Water Resource Group) in Scotland and internationally to address the emergence of AMR
 in the environment through funded projects (NERC, GCRF, local charities) and funded networks
 (Scottish-India AMR in the Environment, SIREN; funded by RSE). The theme is developing into
 aquaculture sustainability and the healthcare environment (with staff in UOA3) and is well-placed
 to respond to Government and UN strategic plans to tackle questions surrounding the emergence
 of AMR in the environment and the development of mitigation strategies.

 Waste and Resource Management projects highlighted in ICS2 have identified opportunity for re-
 engineering treatment systems, evaluating complex chemistries in waste systems to optimise
 recovery or reduction in environmental burdens. The work has impacted on extensive legacy
 mining sites in China (Hursthouse, Thacker, Kelly, McLellan) and on exploitation opportunities
 through adoption in successful KTP projects including copper removal from whisky waste, odour
 and dust control in waste remediation and improved waste strategies across multi-production sites
 (Hursthouse, McLellan, Kelly) (see 1.3).
                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff contribute as Co-Is on substantial projects led by individuals outside UOA7. This includes
 GCRF Dharavi, Mumbai waste and well-being (Hursthouse, Ewins) recent mKTPs (Albion
 Environmental, ACS Clothing), partners in projects with other HEIs and internationally, as
 described in Section 1 including the design and manufacture of multifunctional material treatments
 for historic buildings (Hughes PI, Hursthouse CoI GBP205,000 7th FP HEROMAT).

 Highlighted above, our research strategy focuses on developing collaborative solutions to societal
 problems and aligns with 11 UN SDGs. Looking forward, we will maintain a focus on funding
 opportunities, international partnerships and academic-industry collaboration that allow us to
 underpin our research with strong industrial and external partnerships ensuring we continue to
 address real-world problems with economic, societal and environmental benefit.

 3.2 Organisational Investment
 Arrangement of the Schools in 2018 into HLS and CEPS, facilitated the move of biology-orientated
 disciplines to a new state-of-the-art Lanarkshire Campus. New research laboratories dedicated to
 Biological Sciences significantly elevate our research capabilities, an investment of
 >GBP4,500,000. The ethos behind the new Lanarkshire campus reflects UWS’ commitment to the
 environment and environmental research, winning the prestigious Guardian University Award in
 2019 for Sustainable Buildings that Inspire. Looking forward, UOA7 staff will continue to utilise
 facilities and infrastructure at both Paisley and Lanarkshire campus allowing us to respond flexibly
 and in a timely fashion to arising research needs.

 3.3 Support Staffing and Infrastructure
 Pool technicians on both campuses and in both contributing schools support analytical facilities
 and cell culture/environmental facilities for experimental work. The Schools have, over the course
 of a number of research funded projects, employed fixed term RTs, RAs, PDRAs and
 administrative staff to support research. These dedicated posts are appointed to meet the specific
 requirements of the research. As part of the UWS rebalancing project (2018/19, 2019/20), the
 introduction of Grade 5 technicians and a change in job description for technicians at other grades
 have ensured that research is better supported, along with the appointment of research
 technicians. This benefit is only beginning to be realised due to COVID-19 and the requirement
 for ‘essential only’ work on campus. In the longer term, the technical team will significantly enhance
 research support. Additional support is provided by identified members of the Professional Support
 staff pool, e.g., in arranging conference attendance, ordering of consumables etc.

 3.4 Specialist Research Infrastructure for Impact
 On the Paisley Campus, UWS investment in an Aquaculture Health Laboratory (GBP25,000)
 houses a team of five PDRAs and a research technician externally funded (>GBP2,000,000) by
 BBSRC, SAIC, Innovate UK, DEFRA, Scottish Enterprise and the Scottish Government. Research
 developing rapid blood-based diagnostics to assess fish health is currently being commercialised
 under the Scottish Enterprise High Growth Spinout Programme (see 3.1). Two new high
 throughput clinical chemistry analysers (Monarch 240 and Monarch 400) were purchased with
 support from the Scottish Government through the Maritime Fisheries Fund, administered by the
 Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre (SAIC).

 We have improved our underpinning environmental/chemical analytical facilities with new ICP MS
 and OES systems (2017) and a 500MHz NMR facility (2019), supporting core projects in
 environmental assessment and natural product discovery. On the Lanarkshire campus, dedicated
 laboratories have been built to support research including microbiology labs, an infection control
 room, Level II containment facilities, cell-culture rooms and a suite of controlled environment
 rooms, with facilities for handling soils, wastes and geological specimens.

 3.5 Cross-HEI Infrastructure Collaboration
 Our membership of research pools provides opportunity to access specialist facilities in other
 institutions and innovation hubs support for specific programmes across institutions. A number of
 projects collaborate with other HEI partners and PGR students and researchers exchange for use
                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of specialist equipment. For example, COST action projects have supported visits to and from
 UWS labs and we are partners in an EU MSCF ITN where PGR students gain experience in
 laboratory systems of other organisations.

 3.6 In-kind Benefits
 During the review period, our pool of chemical analysis capability has been supported by donations
 of equipment from industrial partners. Donations include multiple chromatography and infrared
 spectroscopy systems and National Engineering Laboratory particle sizing with a total value of
 >GBP100,000 (BASF, Paisley). Our fish health research has attracted >GBP2,100,000 in funding,
 including cash from industry partners totalling GBP95,000 and GBP686,584 of in-kind
 contributions.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Over 90% of our publications are collaborative with external national and international partners.
 UOA7 staff have substantial, long-term links with academic groups and industrial research teams.
 These underpin much of the research submitted in REF2021 and will develop future strategic
 significance as we move to the next review period. Cross and interdisciplinary teams feature in
 new initiatives such as the UWS Protracted Crisis Research Centre. Nationally we have sustained
 active membership of SFC research pools participating in community networking activities,
 providing strategic directions and supporting development of ECRs across the sector. We have
 been recognised for our international collaboration including short-listing for International
 Collaboration of the year THES (Hursthouse, 2018) and Liancheng Friendship Award of Xiangtan
 City, Hunan (Hursthouse, 2017). Our participation has secured funding for proposal development
 (PEER) and networking/professional development (PECRE) and collaborative PhDs.

 Specific international partnerships in large collaborative networks and bilateral programmes which
 have been particularly important include:

       German Fachhochschulen (e.g. with HAW Hamburg), sustained for >10 years with
        successful Ph.D. progressions (Hursthouse, Kelly, McLellan) and development of new
        projects (see 2.6).
       COST Action networks (COST Action TU1201 (2013-2016) on urban allotment gardens,
        and ES1407 (2015-2019) European network for innovative recovery strategies of rare
        earth and other critical metals from electric and electronic waste provides a rich
        international partnership and led to sustained engagement with members (e.g.,
        Hursthouse fellowship to IPGP, Universite de Paris 2020) and a number of Ph.D. student
        exchanges. These also enhanced our impact with business and industry, underpinning
        important components of our successful KTPs and ICS2.
       Collaboration with Silva Pereira (ITQB UNL Portugal) >15 years (Hursthouse), supported
        by grants from FCT and NATO to look at impacts of polluted soils on microbial development
        applied to agroforestry and contaminant remediation e.g. PTDC/AAC-CLI/119100/2010;
        PTDC/CTA-AMB/6587/2020.
       Development of cross-Scotland AMR interests as well as engaging with UKRI programme
        projects and our partners in India, where academic links to governmental and NGO groups
        extend beyond National boundaries to include World Bank sponsored NGOs (see 3.1).

 4.2 Engagement with Users, Beneficiaries and Communities
 We engage extensively with outreach activity, participating in school visits and supporting project
 placements for Nuffield scholarships. We have acted as hosts for International Space Station
 Educational Trust “Mission Discovery” events for local schools. Annual large-scale events are held
 at Paisley and Lanarkshire campuses (part of the Glasgow Science Festival). Co-ordinated by
 Cowie, they typically attract 300 to 400 people from local communities and involve demonstrations
 by research staff related to freshwater and marine pollutants, animal diversity, human health, sport
 and technology. We also contribute to the Biggar Science Festival (Cowie) delivering talks on
 wildlife conservation and pollution. Ewins manages a Royal Society of Chemistry sponsored
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outreach programme “Spectroscopy in a Suitcase”, presenting principles of chemical
 spectroscopy targeted at general public and secondary school chemistry. It features in all Science
 Festival events and in citizen science projects looking at microplastics in beach sands.

 UOA7 staff sit on a variety of panels including CREW (Scotland’s centre of expertise for waters)
 (Quinn; 2015-present), the Register of Experts for the Scottish Parliament Information Centre
 (SPICe) (Henriquez, Hursthouse; 2020), Clyde 2020 Research Advisory Group (Quinn; 2015-
 2020), Chair of the Norman Fraser Design Trust (Schaschke), UK representative on the European
 Federation of Chemical Engineering (Schaschke) and as a board member of Dundee Science
 Centre (Schaschke).

 We are actively involved with the boards of SFC pools (SAGES – Executive Committee -
 Hursthouse, Theme lead – Gagnon), MASTS – Executive Committee - Quinn, community
 project chair – Quinn; DTP scientific review committee – Alexander, Hursthouse) and are
 Trustees of Environmental Protection Scotland (EPS) (Scottish policy/regulation in air, noise and
 land) (McLellan, Hursthouse; 2013- current), Co-Chair for Air Quality Expert Advisory Group
 (McLellan), Member of the Scottish Government’s Cleaner Air for Scotland Climate Change sub-
 group (McLellan; 2016) and EU Horizon 2020 Joint Programming Initiatives (JPI) Project Steering
 Committee member (various projects) (Quinn). Henriquez is elected Member of the Royal Society
 of Edinburgh Young Academy of Scotland (2016).

 4.3 Contribution to Economy and Society
 Our award-winning leadership in KTPs is a testament to this contribution. Most projects work
 alongside industrial partners and address efficient use of resources, productivity and the circular
 economy. Minimisation and re-use of wastes has a positive impact in reducing the burden of
 pollution on society and improving public health. Introduction of novel treatment systems both
 mitigates for health risk and provides opportunity for resource recovery and better use of materials
 with economic and social gains. We are engaged with policy and regulatory bodies. Our ICS from
 REF2014, supporting decision making in land contamination, has evolved to co-authorship of
 guidance for developers to bring vacant and derelict land into beneficial use (McLellan).

 By assisting with the development of commercial products for industry and integrating novel fish
 health models in their management, we can identify health challenges earlier, reducing mortality
 and increasing productivity of businesses. In one industry partner (Kames Fish Farming Ltd), data-
 informed husbandry decisions are currently shaping fish handling and sea lice treatment events,
 estimated to result in cost savings and yield improvement contributing GBP280,000 per year to
 profit.

 4.4 Discipline, Interdisciplinarity and International Priorities
 Our research enhances our knowledge of environmental biology, including ecology and
 conservation, and the behaviour and physiology of aquatic animals in aquatic environments. We
 address physicochemical and biological processes transferring natural and anthropogenic inputs
 of potentially harmful substances in soils and sediments and weathering of surface exposures at
 mining sites. The development of analytical techniques provides improved data from biomarkers
 in animal health (see ICS1) through to reliable determination of components of complex mixtures
 including a wide range of pollutants and wastes (see ICS2), including first demonstration of WWT
 contributions to environmental burdens of microplastics.

 The interplay between chemistry and biology underpins studies focused on terrestrial and soil
 sciences; natural resources; natural hazards; pollution and environmental management.
 Expansion of knowledge on microbial interactions and tolerance to contaminants underpins risk
 assessment of environmental disruption from mining residues, development of AMR in the
 environment and provides opportunity to apply bioremediation strategies for quarry wastes and
 bioleaching of critical raw materials for resource recovery. Treatment of wastes from the food and
 drink industry, construction and other waste streams with resource value provides opportunities
 for direct business and societal impact and knowledge exchange.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our work builds from a team approach with multiple collaborations across disciplinary boundaries.
 For example, work on Aquaculture in Rwanda (Innovate UK) partners expertise in fish health with
 computer engineers, AI data analysis with economists to develop cost effective aquaponics
 models for developing farmers. The impact of fish aquaria on human health is assessed by a team
 including fish biology, human health, sport and exercise and social work and policy. We support
 projects involving creative industries engaging with informal settlements in Indian recycling
 communities to understand drivers of action and impact on environmental health, introducing risk
 assessment strategies and new field measurement protocols.

 We have already highlighted the contribution made to UN SDGs and our work addresses priority
 initiatives dealing with other high-level issues including WHO focus on AMR and the EU Circular
 Economy Action Plan (ICS2).

 4.5 Wider Influence and Contributions
 UOA7 staff are involved in a variety of academic activities ensuring wide influence and contribution
 within our disciplines. We act as grant reviewers and as panel members for granting agencies
 including NERC highlight topics moderating panel #4 2018, #6 2020 (Hursthouse); NERC
 Resource Recovery From Waste 2014 (Hursthouse); NERC Security of Supply of Mineral
 Resources 2014 (Hursthouse); MRC Review Panel for the China-UK AMR Partnership Hubs
 (Henriquez), NERC Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) Panel, 2020 (Quinn) and Member of
 Research Committee Alopecia UK 2018 (Henriquez). As a group we evaluate grants for NERC,
 BBSRC, British Council Newton Fund, Royal Society, Innovate UK, UK Marine Climate Change
 Impacts Partnership (MCCIP), JPI Water (EU), American Association for the Advancement of
 Science (AAAS), Agence Nationale de la Recherche (ANR) (France), Dutch National Research
 Agenda (NWA), Canadian Foundation for Innovation, Mitacs (Canada), EPA (Ireland), EU Euregio
 Science Fund (EGTC), Israeli Ministry of Science, Technology & Space (MOST), Leverhulme
 Trust, EU COST actions, Austrian, Belgian, Cyprus; Slovakian, Polish, Hungarian US DoD
 research funding agencies.

 Many of our staff are fellows of professional societies including FRSC (Hursthouse), FRSB
 (Quinn, Sloman) and FIChemE (Schaschke) and have held visiting fellowships (Universite de
 Paris IGPG: Hursthouse, 2020). We have editorial roles in scientific journals including Section
 Editor Heliyon (Hursthouse); Processes (Schaschke), Associate/Senior/Topic editor Environ.
 Monit. Assess.; Environ. Earth Sci. (Hursthouse); Sustainability (McLellan); J. Fish Biol.
 (Sloman) and editorial board members (Environ. Geochem. Health; Frontiers Environ. Sci.;
 Ecotox. Environ. Safety; Int. J. Environ. Res. Pub. Health; Environ. Chem. Lett.; Proc ICE Waste
 & Resource Man. (Hursthouse); Intl. J. Sanit. Eng. Res. (Thacker); Sci. Rep. (Henriquez); Int. J.
 Food. Sci. (Schaschke); Comp. Physiol. Biochem. (Sloman); Aquat. Invasions; Bio-invasion
 Records (Alexander).

 UOA7 staff contribute to the external academic research environment as PGR external examiners
 (Ph.D., M.Res., M.Sc.), totalling 45 examinations over the REF period from nine different countries
 (UK, Italy, Australia, Spain, Ireland, Denmark, Brazil, South Africa & Canada).

 Finally, UOA7 staff have given a large number of keynote, plenary and invited research talks over
 the REF review period including: 2014: Universitas Indonesia, Jakarta (Hursthouse), International
 Congress on the Biology of Fish, Edinburgh (Sloman); 2015: Society for Environmental
 Geochemistry & Health, Slovakia (Hursthouse), Universitas Brawijaya, Indonesia (Hursthouse),
 Hunan University, China (Hursthouse); 2016: EXIL COST Action CM1206 (Hursthouse); 2017:
 International Science Conference in Kano, Nigeria (Schaschke), SETAC, South America, Santos,
 Brazil (Quinn), University of Central Lancashire (Hursthouse), College of Civil Engineering,
 Hunan University (Hursthouse), Society for Environmental Geochemistry & Health Guangzhou
 (Hursthouse); 2018: Testate Amoebae Conference, Belfast (Henriquez), TOXO-UK day, London
 (Henriquez), ALAM, Santiago, Chile (Henriquez); SETAC South America, San Luis, Argentina
 (Quinn), Geological Society of London (Hursthouse); 2019: PROIMI, CONICET, Tucuman,
 Argentina (Henriquez), REHIS Annual Environmental Health Forum, (Quinn), MAC & NWWAC
 Workshop on Marine Plastics and the Seafood Supply Chain. Interpretation Directorate (SCIC),
                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Brussels (Quinn), 15th International Congress of the Geological Society of Greece, Athens
 (Hursthouse), Guangdong University of Technology, China (Hursthouse), Hasanuddin
 University, Indonesia (Alexander).




                                                                                   Page 14
