Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth (UoP)


 Unit of Assessment: A3 – Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy


 1     Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1   Unit context and structure

 This submission comprises 42 staff (40.1 FTE, 12F:30M) drawn from the Schools of Biological
 Sciences (SBS: 13 FTE), Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences (PHBM: 22.6 FTE) as well as
 cognate researchers (4.5 FTE) associated with the University ‘Health and Wellbeing’ Thematic
 Area (REF5a, paragraph (p.) 9), to which the Unit makes a leading contribution.

 All staff are members of the Institute of Biomedical and Biomolecular Sciences (IBBS) whose
 research is characterised by its breadth and capability to address important questions on
 multiple levels. This is enabled through four synergistic research groups (Group Leads
 underlined):

  Molecular biophysics (Callaghan, Bemmer, Draheim, Koenig, Kolstoe, Lichtenstein,
   McGeehan, Pickford, Zahn) study biological processes in terms of the structure and function
   of biomolecules and their interactions.

  Genetic basis of disease (Dietrich, Guille, Górecki, Lloyd, Myers, Robson, Scarlett,
   Schubert, Sharpe, Thorne) examine the role of genes in early development and in the onset
   and progression of diseases, and develop and apply gene-editing technology in model
   organisms.

  Biomaterials and drug delivery (Blunn, Cox, Lalatsa, Roldo, Tsibouklis, van der Merwe)
   focusses on the design, synthesis and medical applications of biomaterials, biosensors, drugs
   and drug delivery systems.

  Ageing and Lifelong Health (An, Brown, Butt, Fillmore, Haque, Kandala, Louca, Hafizi,
   Lewis, Maherally, Newsom, Parker, Rutter, Shute, Sivardeen, Swinny, Young plus “Category
   C” staff, Bhandari, Chauhan and Longcroft-Wheaton) have broad biomedical and clinical
   interests and utilise an array of model organisms (zebrafish, rodent, human) to investigate the
   health and disease of various organ systems (gastrointestinal, nervous, ocular, respiratory,
   urinary), and to develop targeted therapeutic or management programmes for associated
   medical conditions.

 These groups support extensive collaboration within IBBS, with NHS trusts, patient groups,
 industry, and with national and international research institutes. This extensive network reflects
 our multidisciplinary approach to research in the biosciences and provides an environment that
 supports the translation of our fundamental science for societal benefit.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2     Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

 In REF2014, 90% of IBBS’ research was recognised as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally
 excellent’, and 100% of our impact judged as ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’. Unit research
 has benefitted significantly from the University’s decision to devolve REF2014 QR funding to
 Faculties (REF5a, p.63), and we have used this, together with external funding and additional
 investment from the University, to strategically enhance this profile. As a result, the size of our
 submission has increased from 23.8 FTE to 40.1 FTE, we have generated over £12M research
 income, supported 104 postgraduate research students (PGRS) to completion, and delivered
 positive societal impacts, as evidenced in our Impact Case Studies and more broadly (4.3).
 Throughout the assessment period, we have formally evaluated and updated our strategic aims,
 notably through University Reviews of IBBS in 2016 and 2019, and our achievements of these
 are summarised below:

 1.2.1    Investing in underpinning bioinformatics capability

 Identified as a strategic priority in 2014, we have recruited bioinformatics expertise (Le (2015-
 16), Robson, 2017) and invested in infrastructure (3.3) that has facilitated large-scale, high-
 throughput genome sequencing analyses and supported the development of our gene-editing
 technologies and transcriptomics approaches. Current projects include investigation of
 differential gene expression during development, gene regulation in proliferating myoblasts in
 Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and the genetic bases of addiction. Bioinformatics
 expertise has also contributed to interdisciplinary research on: biofilm composition as a
 predictive biomarker for infection in medical implants, the effects of environmental contaminants
 on aquatic organisms, the origins of human and animal remains from the Mary Rose and the
 identification of novel enzymes from plastic-degrading bacteria.

 Since March 2020, Robson has led the Sequence Tracking Of Phylogeny in COVID-19 (STOP
 COVID-19) project and the South Coast sequencing hub for the COVID-19 Genomics UK
 Consortium (COG-UK). Working in close collaboration with partner NHS Trusts, he manages a
 team undertaking extensive clinical sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 positive viral samples, enabling
 the Unit to make a major contribution to the national response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 1.2.2    Extending our research focus and developing new research areas with societal
          relevance

 We have used strategic recruitment and investment to extend the scope of our research
 strengths, aligned with our extant expertise and international health priorities.

 Our Molecular Biophysics group has an established profile of international excellence in
 fundamental structural biology and biophysical studies of macromolecules, including those
 relevant in disease. Scientific achievements include structure determination of lignin- and plastic-
 degrading enzymes, matrix metalloproteinases involved in the remodelling of collagenous
 matrices and inflammatory processes associated with arthritis, the structural and molecular
 regulatory mechanisms of ribonucleases relevant to bacterial resistance and screening
 technology to develop novel antibacterial compounds (Nature, Nature Communications, Nucleic
 Acid Research and Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.). This research, underpinned by collaborations with


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 biotechnology companies and a growing portfolio of patented technologies, has attracted
 sustained funding for RNA aptamer-based methods for analyte detection and research to
 develop new antibiotics.

 We have extended the focus of our Genetic basis of disease research to include mitochondrial
 genetic mutations in cancers (Lloyd) and invested in postdoctoral support for gene-editing
 technologies. Recent research with clinical geneticists and computational genome scientists has
 identified a gene variant underlying neurodevelopmental disorders and developed CRSPR/Cas9
 technology in Xenopus to test the significance of particular genetic variants as causative agents
 for rare genetic diseases (Guille and Sharpe). Recent funding (£992k, MRC) to scale-up the
 pipeline of Xenopus gene function analysis evidences the societal importance of this research.

 The Biomaterials and drug delivery group has developed novel nano-carriers for brain delivery of
 biopharmaceuticals and hydrogels for bone regeneration. In 2017, we made a senior
 appointment, Blunn, a biomedical engineer with 25 years’ experience at the forefront of joint
 replacement technology, who extends their work into orthopaedic implants for surgical
 interventions. As a result, strong collaborations with bioengineers (UoA12) have been
 established, underpinned by access to shared facilities (3.3) and joint investment (£50k) in
 specialist equipment to support research on patient-tailored bone fracture repair interventions
 and 3D bioprinting for targeted drug delivery and scaffolds for tissue regeneration (Lalatsa,
 Roldo). As the Director of the University ‘Health and Wellbeing’ Theme, Blunn also supports
 interdisciplinary research across the Unit, through mentorship and leadership of regional
 consortia.

 To address emerging priorities in Ageing and Lifelong Health, we have expanded our basic and
 translational research into the pathophysiology, diagnostics and therapeutics of major medical
 conditions, including respiratory and gastrointestinal disorders, developmental diseases, cancers
 and urinary medicine. New areas of research with particular clinical relevance include the
 development of novel mucolytics, new therapeutic applications for heparin, the use of urinary
 fibrinopeptide A to detect the onset of an asthma exacerbation, and the identification of
 molecular urine markers to improve the diagnosis of bladder disorders in the elderly. Group
 members in degenerative diseases have unique expertise in the role of glial cells in dementia,
 the impact of muscular dystrophy (MD) on brain impairment, and the impact of Alzheimer’s and
 Parkinson’s (PD) on the gastrointestinal tract, enabling new research programmes on the
 broader effects of neurodegenerative diseases. To capitalise on this, and an extended range of
 animal models, we are strategically broadening the focus of our neuroscience research from
 brain tumours to include neurodevelopmental and brain disorders.

 1.2.3   Extending partnerships with key regional NHS stakeholders to support clinical
         research and translation

 We have consolidated research collaborations with NHS-employed (Category C) researchers in
 the Departments of Gastroenterology and Respiratory Medicine at the Queen Alexandra
 Hospital, Portsmouth, which have generated significant societal benefits, as evidenced in Impact
 Case Studies, UoP03Oesophagus and UoP03MISSION. Broader academic-clinical collaboration
 with Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust (PHT) has been supported by Unit investment in a
 Partnership facilitator (2016) and in statistical expertise to establish a joint Portsmouth

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Technology Trials Unit (PTTU, 2018). Since 2016, >10 MD-PhD clinical research students are
 registered in the areas of gastroenterology, airway diseases, cardiovascular and metabolic
 medicine and jointly supervised by Unit staff at any one time. From 2014 to 2018, the Unit
 hosted joint research conferences and networking events with PHT; these continue through the
 University ‘Health and Wellbeing’ Theme. A University-level strategic partnership agreement
 (2019; REF5a, p.16) formalised this collaboration, with PHT subsequently achieving University
 Hospital status (now PHUT). Appointments of joint UoP-PHUT academic-clinical Chairs are in
 progress.

 Broader regional NHS collaborations have been supported by funding for research assistants
 and project costs. Collaborations with clinicians at University Hospital Southampton NHS
 Foundation Trust (UHS) underpin translational research in the: diagnosis of urinary conditions
 (Young – with Southampton Urinary System Network); use of inhaled heparin to treat cystic
 fibrosis (CF) (Shute); identification of genes involved in neurodevelopmental disorders (e.g.
 autism spectrum disorder), and the use of Xenopus in genomic clinical testing (Guille, Sharpe);
 and optimisation of medicines use (Rutter – Drug Safety Research Unit). We are members of the
 Wessex NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC), the Wessex Academic Health Services
 Network (WAHSN) and Blunn leads the SIGHT (Supporting Innovation and Growth in Healthcare
 Technologies) project, a UoP-PHUT collaboration with the CRN Wessex supporting the adoption
 of innovative medical technologies. Enabled through our NHS collaborations, the Unit has made
 significant and scientifically diverse contributions to the national response to the COVID-19
 pandemic. These include diagnostics and virus monitoring (Callaghan), repurposing heparin to
 treat COVID-19-induced lung inflammation (Shute), stress-induced alcohol misuse during long-
 term isolation (Parker) and establishing a rapid-response laboratory at PHUT for SARS-CoV-2
 genomic sequencing as part of the STOP COVID-19 project (Robson).

 1.2.4   Supporting and increasing interdisciplinary research (IDR)

 A strong element of the Unit’s IDR has emerged from the Molecular Biophysics group, focussed
 around enzymatic breakdown of complex natural and synthetic polymers through interfacial
 catalysis. McGeehan, working with marine zoologists (submitted to UoA7), the US National
 Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) and Diamond Light Source (DLS) and supported by the
 BBSRC, applied structure-guided protein engineering approaches to lignin-degrading enzymes,
 whose products are valuable building blocks for the chemical industry, and to enzymes, PETase
 and MHETase, which can digest one of the most commonly polluting plastics, PET (Nat.
 Comms., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.). Recognising the research excellence in this Unit and the
 potential impact of enzyme innovation to address global health and environmental challenges,
 the University committed £6M to establish the Centre for Enzyme Innovation (CEI, Director
 McGeehan). In 2019, this was further enhanced by a £5.8M Expanding Excellence in England
 (E3) award and the PETase project was awarded the Times Higher STEM Research Project of
 the Year. The CEI acts as an IDR “hub” that draws together research excellence in this Unit (in
 molecular biophysics, computational chemistry, biochemistry and bioinformatics), connecting it
 with broader research areas, applications and networks to drive growth in enzyme innovation,
 spanning a pipeline from discovery to application.




                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 With E3 and University investment, we have embedded IDR within the Unit by creating new
 laboratories, investing in instrumentation with multi-disciplinary applications (3.3) and recruiting
 Senior Research Fellows (SRF) with specific expertise in surface analysis (Bemmer), in silico
 modelling (Koenig), protein design (Lichtenstein) and X-ray crystallography (Zahn) to work on
 problem-based challenges. IDR research teams are also supported by Senior Research
 Associates, Specialist Technicians and PGRS working across disciplinary interfaces.

 A focus of the CEI is to develop bio-based solutions for plastic pollution and its far-reaching
 effects, aligned with our ‘Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Sustainability and the Environment’
 Themes. This interdisciplinary ethos and infrastructure has supported Callaghan’s new IDR, with
 colleagues in UoAs B7, B12 and at PHUT, to develop a wastewater biosensor for detailed
 COVID-19 population surveillance (BBSRC, £466k), as well as new areas of biomedical
 research within the Unit exploring the health effects of exposure to microplastic particles.

 1.2.5   Supporting the delivery of societal impact

 Our strategic approach to impact has been to extend our collaborations with key research users
 (4.2) and to invest in capabilities that underpin, and extend, the societal relevance of our
 research. We have also employed several mechanisms to embed impact in our research
 environment and across the research lifecycle, including: (i) consideration of impact in our
 induction, mentoring and appraisal programmes, and our internal grant peer-review systems; (ii)
 dedicated Impact Leads in Schools to provide one-to-one guidance, support for non-academic
 collaboration and raise awareness of the “knowledge exchange” agenda; (iii) specific workload
 allocations for impact activities; (iv) flexible working arrangements that allow staff to undertake
 consultancy and maintain practitioner links; (v) impact away-days and “Dragon’s Den” style
 sessions with stakeholders; and (vi) rapid response, “impact acceleration” funding schemes to
 facilitate implementation. Staff also attend workshops on networking, Intellectual Property (IP)
 and commercialisation, and on strategies to engage wider audiences, as part of the Research
 and Innovation Services (RIS) Development Programme (RISDP; REF5a, p.33).

 These initiatives have enabled the translation of our research into societal impacts that underpin
 our Impact Case Studies and wider impact across the Unit (4.2, 4.3). Collaborations with
 clinicians have underpinned the development and adoption of new techniques and models,
 which have improved diagnosis of Barrett's oesophagus (UoP03Oesophagus), improved the
 assessment and care of individuals with chronic respiratory symptoms (UoP03MISSION) and
 transformed the speed of diagnosis of rare genetic disorders (UoP03Xenopus). Clinical trials are
 underway to assess novel medical implants, formulations and materials for drug delivery, and
 new treatments for neglected tropical diseases and conditions such as COPD, CF, DMD and,
 most recently, COVID-19. New biomarkers, enzymes and enzyme systems, and the
 development of innovative, patented technologies are improving detection and diagnosis of
 disease and the screening and development of new therapeutics. Significantly, provision of our
 research expertise and facilities have improved the excellence, efficiency and integrity of
 biomedical and health research across the world (UoP03Xenopus, UoP03Ethics), and are
 contributing to the national response to the COVID-19 pandemic.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We will continue this portfolio approach to facilitating impact across the Unit, with an additional
 emphasis on the translation of patented technologies (3.1) and on new areas of research,
 particularly IDR, with significant potential societal impact.

 1.3   Open research, ethics and integrity

 We are committed to an open research agenda: 97% of our outputs have been published under
 open-access (OA) licences since 1.4.16, 100% of our in-scope REF2 outputs meet Research
 England’s OA requirements and all IBBS members are ORCID registered. Datasets are
 deposited on University and open-source repositories, such as the European Bioinformatics
 Institute, Protein Data Bank and Xenbase. All clinical trials are registered on open databases.
 Since 2018, 72% of the Unit's outputs have been assessed as compliant with the University’s
 Research Data Management policy (REF5a, p.24). IBBS supports primary research on this
 agenda. Kolstoe’s research on research transparency and data sharing was highlighted in the
 House of Commons Science and Technology Select Committee (STSC) report ‘Research
 Integrity: clinical trials transparency’ (2018) and underpinned the Health Research Authority’s
 Make it Public’ Strategy (UoP03Ethics). Parker is the UoP lead for the UK Reproducibility
 Network and leads the UoP Open Science Network, which has established a ReproducibiliTea
 journal club and, in 2019, hosted Professor Stephen Lindsay, a key driver of the replicability and
 open science agenda, to deliver a series of lectures and workshops.

 The University Strategy commits us to the highest standards of academic, professional and
 research integrity (REF5a, p.22-24). This is supported at School level through quality assurance
 processes that ensure sound research design, participant safety and adherence to ethical
 codes, openness and transparency. Members of the Unit (Fillmore, Rutter) sit on the Faculty
 Ethics Committee that oversees a mandatory ethical review process for all research. As
 University Ethics Advisor, Kolstoe has implemented new systems, including monitoring the
 registration and reporting of studies involving humans in medical and health care areas. Guille
 chairs the University Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Board and leads the European
 Xenopus Research Centre (EXRC) in driving the incorporation of ‘3Rs’ in animal research into
 national and international policy and practice (UoP03Xenopus). An annual ‘Culture of Care’
 meeting ensures that all individuals undertaking animal research are appraised of recent
 developments within this area.

 1.4   Research strategy to 2026

 Our Unit has engaged with the University’s new Vision 2030 and Strategy 2025 (REF5a2.0)
 through consultation in our Research Groups. Beginning with articulation of Groups’ research
 ambitions, we have identified four objectives to build our global reach and reputation and deliver
 societal impact. These are underpinned by our commitment to staff development, support for
 PGRS and equality, diversity and inclusivity.

  Continue developing our established and emergent areas of research excellence that
   address global health and life science priorities. This includes building on our expertise in
   structure-guided protein engineering, synthetic biology, gene editing technology, bacterial
   resistance, molecular medicine, neuroscience and disease diagnostic biomarkers and
   extending our excellence in structural cell and molecular biology to translational medicine. We

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     will enhance the vitality and relevance of our research by using the links of our clinical and
     practice-based staff to increase patient and public involvement in our research.

  Further exploit our unique IDR infrastructure and expertise to deliver societal benefits.
   We will focus support in areas where IDR approaches, in combination with our expertise in
   structural and synthetic biology, bioinformatics and biomaterials, can provide unique research
   solutions. We will develop the CEI as a catalyst for transformative IDR research and impact,
   and will use this model to support the establishment of other UoP centres of IDR excellence.

  Nurture our collaborations to develop translational research improving the health and
   care of individuals, groups and populations. We will support staff to develop links with
   beneficiaries through research mentoring and networking, financial support for high-quality
   engagement opportunities, including secondments and exchanges, and investing in patient
   and public involvement. We will accelerate the pace of research on the biodesign of enzyme
   expression systems, biosensors for virus detection, biomarker diagnostics, nanomedicine and
   technologies to address antimicrobial resistance and improve the diagnosis of rare genetic
   diseases, aiming for all research groups to develop ‘case studies’ of impact.

  Embed a broader, more inclusive approach to supporting all career levels in research
   excellence. We will expand our research training capacity and programmes to develop the
   IBBS talent pool, support professions-based staff into research and postdoctoral researchers
   towards research independence. We will prioritise support for female leadership programmes,
   moving towards an improved gender-balance at all grades. We will build on our collaborations
   with regional NHS Trusts and networks to develop academic-clinical career pathways.


 2      People

 Category A staff in this submission comprise 22% Professors, 27% Readers/Principal Lecturers,
 45% Senior Lecturers/Senior Research Fellows, 5% Lecturers/Research Fellows and 17% are
 ECRs, indicating a balanced leadership portfolio and a strong pipeline for staff development and
 progression.

 2.1    Staffing strategy

 Our strategy is to strengthen areas of existing and potential international research excellence
 through strategic recruitment and the development and promotion of extant staff. Strategic
 recruitment of SRFs with specific expertise has supported the expansion of our bioinformatics
 capabilities (Robson) and interdisciplinary enzyme innovation (Bemmer, Koenig, Lichtenstein
 and Zahn). SRFs are appointed on a 4- or 5-year tenure track basis, endorsing our commitment
 to staff development. Recruitment of Parker extended our nervous system research into the
 study of neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders, whilst Draheim
 adds bacterial synthetic biology expertise to our antimicrobial resistance research. Blunn’s
 recruitment supports the achievement of our objectives for clinical translation and leadership of
 IDR. New expertise in medical statistics (Kandala) and healthcare modelling (Haque) enhances
 our mixed-methods capabilities for developing interventions to manage long-term health



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 conditions, whilst the recruitment of new staff with clinical practice expertise (Louca, Newsom,
 Rutter, Sivardeen) supports future pathways to impact.

 2.2   Staff development

 The University has held an HR Excellence in Research Award since 2013 and is a signatory to
 the Researcher Development Concordat (REF5a, p.41). Our staff development strategy aims to
 grow the capability and profile of our researchers through resourcing their time and providing a
 portfolio of support at all career stages. Since REF2014, we have introduced a new workload
 model (REF5a, p.2); research-active staff (those regularly publishing research articles) are
 allocated a minimum of 0.2 FTE for research, with additional time for grant writing, externally-
 funded research and impact activities. New staff are integrated into our research environment
 through research group membership, enhanced research workload allocation (0.2 FTE, Year 1)
 and eligibility for research ‘start-up funds’. All early- and mid-career staff have a research-mentor
 and workload hours are allocated to both mentor and mentee. Annual Performance and
 Development Reviews (PDR) ensure linkage of individual and Unit-wide research objectives and
 the identification of development needs. All staff have equal access to School or Faculty funding
 for staff development (study leave, sabbaticals, conference attendance) and to a variety of IBBS
 funding opportunities (up to £25k per award) that have supported individuals’ research and
 impact through recruitment of research assistants, project costs and short-term placements.
 IBBS initiatives to improve publication and grant application quality include ‘pitch-to peer’,
 manuscript and grant writing workshops, and internal peer review. IBBS also delivers a unified
 programme of research seminars that provides staff and PGRS with opportunities for external
 collaboration and networking. Workshops on funding, publishing, open research and
 dissemination are offered via the RISDP.

 Early-career researchers (ECRs) continue to receive enhanced research workload in Year 2 (0.1
 FTE), are preferentially considered for internally-funded PhD studentships as first supervisor
 with additional supervisors to provide mentorship, and have access to ring-fenced ECR funding
 to support pilot data collection and collaboration. Through these processes, all ECRs in our
 REF2014 submission (An, Kolstoe, Lalatsa, Lewis and Young) are now established researchers,
 evidenced by senior author publications in discipline-leading journals, external income
 generation, PhD completions and contributions to Unit and University leadership. Funding
 support for ECRs can be substantial; for example, support for tenure-track SRFs includes
 investment in associated specialist facilities, bursaried PhD studentships, project costs, external
 collaborations and bid development. These mechanisms enabled Robson to secure over £250k
 external funding and lead the regional contribution to the national COVID-19 virus surveillance
 effort; his position was made permanent on 01.09.2020.

 The Unit’s postdoctoral research staff (22.1 FTE, 49%F) are members of Research Groups,
 mentored by permanent IBBS members, and supported to apply for external and IBBS funding
 and to present their research at national and international conferences. Research staff are
 represented through a Research Staff Forum, have an annual PDR and are provided with
 additional career development training and coaching via RISDP (REF5a, p.42). They are also
 supported to engage with external development opportunities, e.g. specialist training from DLS
 and EMBL, and programmes to enhance communication (NCCPE and Royal Society) and


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 commercialisation (Innovate UK ICURe) skills. During this assessment period, research staff,
 [text removed for publication] (3F) have been appointed to permanent academic positions at the
 UoP and Maherally has secured external funding as an independent Research Fellow. Other
 postdoctoral researchers have progressed on to roles in academia (e.g. De Montfort), research
 (e.g. PetMedix; Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, Singapore) and business (e.g. South Coast
 Centre of Excellence in Satellite Applications).

 We have also targeted support to mid-career researchers to enhance their research profiles and
 develop their research leadership capabilities, particularly on collaborative projects across
 discipline and professional boundaries. For example, Draheim received a PhD studentship and
 project costs to develop a high-throughput platform to screen novel antimicrobial compounds
 that underpinned a patent application and secured Innovate UK funding. Swinny has received
 Unit funding (£60k) and multiple PhD studentships to support the development of research
 programmes on stress-induced inflammation of the colon, novel and therapeutic targets for the
 gastrointestinal symptoms of PD (both with Brown and Bhandari), and antioxidant therapeutics
 for Alzheimer’s (University of West Australia). These have underpinned publications in respected
 journals (e.g. Gastroenterology, Neuropsychopharmacology) and awards (£365k) from
 Alzheimer’s Society and Parkinson’s UK. Additional support for established researchers includes
 external mentoring, underwriting or extending postdoctoral appointments while grant renewals
 are pending, reduced teaching loads and support for mobility between external collaborators and
 end-users. Staff also attend leadership development programmes, such as “Leader and
 Manager as Coach”. Evidence of the effectiveness of this support includes: Callaghan as Deputy
 Chair of BBSRC Research Committee D; McGeehan providing academic and strategic
 leadership as Director of the CEI; and Swinny leading on the strategic expansion of the Unit’s
 neuroscience research.

 The principal mechanism for enabling research and impact activities is workload allocation. Staff
 are recognised and rewarded for research and impact leadership through promotion; the
 University’s Policy on Promotion and Appointment to Reader and Professor includes a broad
 range of research and impact activities and recognises co-authorship of publications and income
 generation as PI or CoI. In this assessment period, Callaghan and McGeehan (1F:1M) have
 been promoted to Professor and Fillmore, Hafizi, Lalatsa, Pickford, Swinny and Young (2F:4M)
 to Reader. Reflecting support and development over this census period, Cox, Pickford and
 Swinny were promoted to Professor and Draheim to Reader in September 2020.

 Moving forward, a priority will be to support staff with a clinical background to undertake doctoral
 study and develop their research careers. We will also develop clinical-academic roles; the first
 appointment, a joint Chair with PHUT in Acute and Emergency Medicine, will be made in 2021.
 Through development of these roles and membership of the Wessex ARC, we will provide
 opportunities for academic and clinical staff to develop their research skills and carry out high-
 quality, impactful research.

 2.3   Support for, training and supervision of PGR students

 The strength and breadth of IBBS research attracts external PGRS sponsorship from UKRI (e.g.
 NERC, DLS), medical charities (Alzheimer’s Society, Headcase Cancer Trust, MS Society, Ollie
 Young Foundation, RoseTrees Trust), government agencies (e.g. DSTL, NREL) and industry.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Significant internal resources (£1.0M) have been strategically invested in PhD studentships in
 priority areas, such as biocompatible bone treatments, genetic regulatory networks, cognitive
 impairment in MD, discovery of novel antibiotics and antibacterials, and diagnostic tests for
 mesothelioma. Together, this has resulted in 104 successful completions in this assessment
 period and 176 PGRS are currently registered on a variety of degree pathways, including PhD,
 MD, Professional Doctorates and DPharm, indicating the vitality and sustainability of our PGRS
 community.

 PGRS selection is based upon presentations and interviews of shortlisted candidates with the
 supervisor(s) and Research Group Lead, supported by a trained interviewer. PGRS supervisory
 teams typically consist of three staff, including external supervisors where they bring additional
 expertise. PGRS attend mandatory induction at University, Faculty and School levels, covering
 health and safety, record keeping, laboratory induction, technical training and progress
 monitoring processes. Specific training needs for each student and project are identified in the
 first meeting with the supervisor and updated through regular reviews. Supervisors are expected
 to have regular informal contact with their students and to hold monthly meetings for their
 research group. Progress in Year 1 is formally monitored by a Major Review Report and
 presentation to a panel that includes two assessors independent of the supervisory team.
 Annual reviews with presentations to the same panel are held thereafter. Each School has a
 Research Degrees Coordinator who is responsible for the monitoring and development of PGRS
 and is a member of the Schools’ Research and Innovation and Faculty Research Degrees
 Committees.

 In line with Vitae recommendations, PGRS attend at least 10 days of researcher development
 training each year. The University Graduate School Development Programme provides
 professional and generic skills training (REF5a, p.38) whilst IBBS provides discipline-specific
 training, including biomedical imaging, genomic and transcriptomic sequence analysis, human
 tissue usage, statistics, analytical methods and Ethics in Scientific Research. IBBS hosts a
 PGRS journal club and all PGRS present in Research Groups, at IBBS and School research
 days and at the annual University Festival of Doctoral Research.

 Our PGRS engage in a range of additional development activities to improve their employability.
 All PGRS receive a bursary to fund attendance at least one conference over the course of their
 studies and conference presentations by PGRS have won awards, e.g. British Society of
 Nanomedicine (2016), Global Experts Meeting on Frontiers in Alzheimer’s Disease & Dementia
 (2019). External networking is facilitated by supervisors’ extensive collaborations, by the IBBS
 seminar series, and through access to regional research networks. PGRS accompany
 supervisors on visits to collaborators and, since 2015, we have invested in an IBBS PGRS
 placement scheme that, together with the BBSRC PIPS, has supported independent visits to
 national (e.g. UCL; Target Discovery Institute, Oxford; Cardiff University; Cambridge University)
 and international (e.g. University of Caen; University of Copenhagen; Danish Technical
 University; Stem Cell and Brain Research Institute, Lyon; University of Warsaw; Montana State
 University; NREL, Colorado) research institutes and biotechnology companies (Amyris,
 California). Since 2016, IBBS has also provided £100k support for high-cost projects that
 facilitate training in advanced methodologies and techniques. Our PGRS are supported to
 publish their work; more than 50% of the Unit’s returned outputs have PGRS as co-authors.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGRS are also included on patents and contribute to public engagement and impact activities.
 All PGRS involved in teaching are enrolled on the University Graduate Students Professional
 Development programme that is aligned to accreditation by the UK HEA.

 Our training and development portfolio is well received (>80% overall satisfaction score across
 the constituent Schools, PRES, 2019). With strong research, professional and networking skills,
 our PGRS are well prepared for careers in academia (Senior/Lectureships at Brighton; MMU;
 UiTM, Malaysia; Assistant Professorships at Baghdad University College of Science; Al Ain
 University, UAE); research (Humboldt Postdoctoral Fellowship, Goethe-Institute, Germany; Staff
 Scientist, NREL; Marie Curie Fellow, University of Padua; Research Fellow, National Heart and
 Lung Institute), clinical settings (University of Massachusetts Medical School; Xuhui Central
 Hospital, Chinese Academy of Sciences; Senior Biomedical Scientist, UHS; Consultant
 gastroenterologist, PHUT) and industry (Business development roles with IBM, NIPD Genetics,
 Ximbio).

 Our Unit also contributes to national research training as a core partner in the BBSRC South
 Coast Biosciences (SoCoBio) DTP; Pickford is Training Lead, Unit staff are currently supervising
 three students and UoP delivers a residential Science Communication Summer School for all
 SoCoBio PGRS.

 2.4   Equality, diversity and inclusion

 The University is a signatory to the Race Equality Charter, a Stonewall Diversity Champion,
 Disability Confident and Working Families and Mindful employer, and holds an Institutional
 Athena Swan Bronze Award. All staff undertake mandatory training including Bullying &
 Harassment, Unconscious Bias, and Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI). The Unit’s constituent
 Schools hold Departmental Athena Swan Bronze Awards, have EDI Committees that report to
 School Management Groups and an EDI Lead (0.1 FTE) who oversees the promotion of equality
 and diversity, from the point of staff recruitment onwards. Vacancies are advertised through
 multiple avenues, including the Women in Science and Engineering Campaign, and
 advertisements state that applications for employment on a part-time, job share or other flexible
 working basis will be considered, even where a position is full-time. We have successful
 experience of this approach; for example, Callaghan’s research team has had three members
 (3F) working on a part-time basis in recent years. IBBS and School meetings and seminars are
 held at family-friendly times and the IBBS seminar series features a gender-balanced (47%F)
 blend of speakers. All staff with caring responsibilities have access to flexible teaching
 arrangements. The University has guidance for staff and managers on maternity, paternity,
 shared parental and adoption leave and funding is available to support research re-engagement
 after periods of extended absence. This has supported two staff members returning from
 adoption and maternity leave, and Callaghan and Draheim have hosted Daphne Jackson
 Fellows.

 Table 1 summaries the profiles of staff in our wider Unit (eligible staff), submitted staff and the
 Biosciences sector nationally. 10% of our submitted staff work part-time and 12% are on fixed-
 term contracts.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 1: Unit Profile and demographics

                                      Proportion of Cat A staff
                                                                                Doctoral degrees
  Indicator
                                                                                    awarded
                           Sector      Eligible staff     Submitted staff

  Gender (Female)           46%1            45%                 29%                    61%

  Ethnicity (BAME2)          9%1            17%                 14%                    23%

  Declared disability        3%1            10%                  3%                     6%

  Age (36-55)               49%1            64%                 63%                     n/a
 1-Academic and research staff Biosciences Advance HE, 2020; 2-Reported as Black, Asian and
 Minority Ethnic.

 Our submission includes 46% of the Category A eligible population (FTE); this reflects the high
 proportion of staff who have been recruited from clinical backgrounds where they were not
 researching. We are committed to developing these staff into research and are supporting them
 with mentoring, collaboration with more experienced researchers, and to undertake doctoral
 studies.

 The gender profile of submitted staff, and particularly by career stage, reflects EDI issues within
 the Unit, and in STEM subjects more broadly. Women are well-represented in postgraduate
 research (61%) and at immediate postdoctoral research career stages (49%), although these
 posts are usually on short/fixed-term contracts, conditional on grant funding. There is, however,
 underrepresentation at senior grades (23%F Reader/Senior Research Fellow; 25%F
 Professorial). We will address this as a priority going forward. Female staff are encouraged to
 undertake the Advance HE ‘Aurora’ programme: four Unit staff have attended this programme
 and act as role models and mentors for others. We will support more of our female staff to
 participate in ‘Aurora’, apply for sabbaticals and to access bespoke coaching and mentoring
 offered by the University, and externally, to facilitate progress to senior positions.

 REF Submission: Unit leadership positions were openly advertised and candidates selected
 after interview by a gender-balanced panel and the Unit Leadership Team attended an ‘Equality
 and Diversity in the REF’ workshop (Advance HE, October 2019). All returned staff were
 involved in the review of proposed outputs, which were reviewed and selected according to the
 UoP Code of Practice. There has been no expectation on any staff to contribute a specific
 number of outputs and the primary criterion used to select outputs was their quality. An EIA has
 confirmed that REF2 outputs reflect the profile of submitted staff for gender (30%F), ethnicity
 (15% BAME), disability (3%), contract type (14% fixed-term, 6% part-time) and career stage
 (20% ECR).




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1   Research funding and strategies for generating research income

 Our income strategy has focused on aligning our research with health and life sciences priorities,
 developing the expertise and profile of our researchers, extending our national and international
 collaborations and supporting engagement with a broad range of research users.

 This strategy has successfully supported a wider group of staff to submit to a broader range of
 funders. Excluding four staff appointed within the last 12 months, 85% of our Unit have
 contributed to income generation through over 300 projects, indicating the vitality and
 sustainability of our funding base. Our total research income has grown by 60% (from £8.9M to
 £14.2M). We have attracted significant support from a range of funders, including UK Research
 Councils (e.g. BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC, NERC: £4M) and the Wellcome Trust (£1.9M) and
 increased funding (up by £4.3M to 47% of our income portfolio) from specialist biomedical
 charities (e.g. Age UK, Alzheimer’s Research UK (ARUK), Brain Tumour Research, Headcase
 Cancer Trust, MS Society, Muscular Dystrophy Association, Parkinson’s UK, Rosetrees Trust).
 Reflecting our strategic focus on collaboration with health and hospital bodies, our portfolio
 includes increased support from the NIHR and hospital trusts (+£1.3M).

 Prestigious external income has generated high quality outputs and impact across all IBBS
 groups. As well as significant block grants to the CEI (£5.8M Research England) and EXRC
 (£1.9M BBSRC, Wellcome Trust), major individual awards include:

  Molecular Biophysics: BBSRC funding to Callaghan (£855k) enabling the molecular and
   structural characterisation of ribonucleases regulating bacterial RNA (Nucleic Acids
   Research) and underpinning the invention and patenting of new high-throughput platform
   technology, and to McGeehan (£400k) for UK-US collaboration on the discovery and
   engineering of enzymes for the degradation of lignin and plastic, which featured in the
   BBSRC highlights, and Innovate UK funding to Draheim (£564k) as part of a UK-China
   collaboration to tackle antimicrobial resistance;

  Genetic Basis of Disease: European Commission and Muscular Dystrophy Association
   awards to Górecki (£750k) to develop therapeutic drug targets to treat DMD (Acta
   Neuropathologica Communications, PloS Medicine);

  Biomaterials and Drug delivery: awards to Blunn (EPSRC, EC, NIHR; £720k) for research
   on biomaterials for implants in orthopaedic and oncology medicine; support to Lalatsa
   (Headcase Cancer Trust, Royal Society; £100k) for the development of pharmaceutical
   nanotechnology for site-specific drug delivery (Journal of Controlled Release); and to
   Tsibouklis (£240k) to host a Marie-Curie International Incoming Fellow working on a novel
   delivery platforms for hydrophobic drugs;

  Ageing and Lifelong Health: BBSRC, MRC, MS Society awards to Butt (£1.2M) supporting
   pharmacogenomic research into glia and neural regeneration (PLoS Biology, Stem Cells).
   Swinny has been supported by Alzheimer’s Society, ARUK and Parkinson’s UK (£365k) to


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    identify the impact of amyloid beta oligomers on neuronal activity in Alzheimer’s and drug
    targets to reverse such effects (Neuropathology and Applied Neurobiology, Journal of
    Neuroscience), and awards to Young (Rosetrees Trust, EPSRC/NIHR, Innovate UK ICURe,
    Wessex AHSN) for the development of a diagnostic biomarker ‘fingerprint’ for Overactive
    Bladder (OAB), and for broader projects in biomarker discovery (EPSRC, DTA3/COFUND
    PhD Fellowship, DSTL).

 To support long-term sustainability, we have increased our focus on developing novel
 technologies and supporting these towards commercialisation. This is reflected in increased
 funding from UK government (Innovate UK, DSTL) and biotechnology organisations (e.g.
 GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson Matthey, Oxford Drug Design). A key component of our future
 strategy is exploitation and commercialisation of our research excellence. To date, IBBS
 researchers are inventors on 11 patents that have been granted or filed for discoveries relating
 to the immobilisation of RNA onto a surface, ‘all-in-one’ cell verification and contamination
 assays, novel zeolite frameworks, two-component system technologies, peptide nanomaterials
 for targeted drug delivery, enzyme structures, and urine-based biomarkers for diagnosis of OAB.
 We will target specific funding streams (e.g. BBSRC Follow-on Funding) to secure support for
 the creation and exploitation of IP, typically in partnership with industry, and major revenue
 streams are anticipated through licensing and spinout of assets.

 We will continue to ensure our research aligns with the priorities of a wide range of funders and
 that we are well positioned to contribute to the agendas of specialist biomedical charities. We will
 further extend our collaborations with clinicians, industry and other end users, through
 engagement with national and international networks. Strategic investments in our capabilities,
 such as in enzyme innovation, gene-editing and bioinformatics, provide a transformative
 increase in our capacity to respond to new, emerging research challenges and to secure
 research and commercial funding.

 3.2   Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Research and impact is supported across the Unit at IBBS and School levels. The IBBS steering
 committee is composed of the IBBS Director (Young), Associate Dean Research (Thorne) and
 the Associate Heads Research and Innovation (AHR&I) from the constituent Schools, ensuring
 linkage between Unit and School objectives. IBBS strategic directives are implemented by
 School R&I Committees (SRICs), chaired by the AHR&Is. The SRIC identifies research
 priorities, agrees the strategic distribution of internal investment e.g. in studentships and small
 grants, considers equality and diversity issues, manages research integrity and monitors delivery
 against KPIs and the Research Concordat. SRIC membership is inclusive in terms of gender
 and career stage and includes the IBBS Research Group Leads, the Research Degrees
 Coordinator and ECR, research and technical staff representatives. The SRIC reports to the
 School Management Group and Faculty RIC. The REF Unit Coordinator (Swinny) is a member
 of the Faculty and the University REF Steering Committees. All Research Groups operate a
 peer-support system at the early stages of research design to improve project rigour and quality
 and, where appropriate, bid-quality. Competitive external bid applications are reviewed through
 the University’s peer-review college and, for projects involving clinical populations, our staff
 utilise the NIHR Research Design Service (RDS) to develop their protocols. Aligned with the


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 broader strategic development of health-related research across the host Faculty (Science and
 Health), we have also enhanced our research environment through further integration with NHS
 Trusts, the NIHR RDS, Wessex ARC and AHSN (4.2.1).

 In addition to Unit-specific support, staff in Faculty and the central RIS team (REF5a, p.56-57)
 provide support for bid development (including finances and co-ordinating internal reviews),
 developing pathways to, and evidencing, impact, research ethics applications and post-award
 administration of externally funded research projects. Linked to our focus on collaborative
 working and research translation, our Unit is supported by colleagues in RIS with expertise in IP,
 patenting and complex international government contracts. This has been particularly important
 in supporting strategic long-term partnerships, such as that with NREL.

 3.3   Specialist infrastructure and facilities

 IBBS has world-class research facilities and instrumentation, acquired through external grants
 and significant internal capital investment. Facilities are managed by 18.5 FTE technical staff
 (67%F), with specialisms in biomedical imaging, tissue culture, chemical analyses, animal care
 and husbandry and biophysics, overseen by School Technical Managers. Technical staff are
 supported to achieve Science Council Professional Registration, contribute to publications and
 achieve additional qualifications (MRes, Degree Apprenticeships). All staff and PGRS have
 equal infrastructure access, irrespective of seniority, Research Group affiliation or availability of
 external income.

 During this assessment period, the Unit has invested >£5M in infrastructure and equipment to
 enhance capabilities in strategically important areas, including enzyme innovation, bioresources,
 advanced microscopy and bioinformatics.

  We have grown our enzyme innovation specialisms through significant strategic University
   and external investment. Our Biophysics Instrumentation Laboratory houses state-of-the-art
   instrumentation for investigating structural and functional aspects of macromolecular
   interactions. This has been augmented by a crystallisation robot, high performance
   Calorimetry (MicroCal PEAQ-ITC and PEAQ-DSC), high-precision microarrayer and facilities
   for bacterial fermentation and protein purification. Two Specialist Research Technicians with
   expertise in bioinformatics and microbiology have been recruited on 5-year tenure-track
   posts. A £1.1M estate refurbishment has created new laboratories (Category 2) to facilitate
   interdisciplinary working and embed the CEI in the scientific research community. The Solent
   LEP has recently invested £1M in our enzyme innovation work to create an industrially-
   relevant, bio-recycling development facility that will support research translation and regional
   economic growth.

  [Text removed for publication]

  Our advanced imaging instrumentation enables the interrogation of a range of biological
   samples. These include the molecular and biophysical characterisation of fixed preparations
   using automated scanning and quantification of immuno-histological staining (Leica Ariol
   microscope), conventional (LSM 710) and super-resolution (Zeiss 880 AiryScan) confocal
   microscopy, or atomic force microscopy (Nanoscope 4 multimode). Live cell sorting (EVOS


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     FL Auto and Zeiss Axiovert 200M) and calcium imaging (LSM5Pascal confocal calcium
     imaging) allows for investigations in living systems. IBBS researchers also benefit from
     shared access to facilities outside the Unit that enable correlative microscopy approaches.
     The Electron Microscopy and Microanalytical Unit (hosted by UoA7) includes new SEMs
     (Zeiss EVO MA10 and Tescan FEG source, £240k) with probes for elemental analysis and
     distribution. Advanced imaging facilities in the Zeiss Global Centre (ZGC), located in the
     Faculty of Technology, hosts X-ray micro CT and X-ray 3D microscopes (Versa 510 and
     Versa 520), capable of sub-micron (~100 nm) resolution, phase-contrast and dual-energy
     acquisition. [Text removed for publication]. The ZGC also provides specialist in-situ loading
     devices (Deben rigs: 500N, 3kN and 5kN; Femtotools: modular micro/nano-probing down to
     5nN) and software for digital volume correlation that support IDR into natural materials,
     biological structures, biomaterials and bio-inspired engineering materials (Górecki, Blunn,
     Roldo, Lalasta).

  We have invested £250k to establish a bioinformatics-specific, high-performance computing
   cluster that has supported the development of a range of next-generation sequencing data
   types. This includes a new laboratory providing high-throughput Nanopore sequencing
   (GridION X5 and MinION) facilities, supplemented by access to the University’s SCIAMA
   (4000 core cluster) supercomputer. With further investment in research assistants (£135k)
   and equipment (£100k), we are establishing a sequencing facility, led by Robson.

 IBBS facilities and instrumentation are accessible to wider academia and industry via the
 University Research Portal and equipment sharing databases, such as Equipment.data and
 Konfer. We will continue to invest in infrastructure, ensuring that future enhancement is driven by
 our strategic priorities and maximises the opportunities for shared resource use.

 Our researchers also access world-class research facilities that complement those in IBBS and
 build a global perspective for our staff and PGRS. IBBS structural biologists are members of
 block allocation groups and have received highly competitive, peer-reviewed synchrotron beam
 time at ESRF and DLS (equivalent to £489k in this REF period) for crystallography of biological
 molecules, as well as small angle x-ray scattering (SAXS) and synchrotron radiation circular
 dichroism (SRCD) studies. Our high-profile research on the structures of lignin and plastic-
 degrading enzymes was conducted at the DLS and features in their 2018 highlights. Neutron
 beam time at the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source (STFC-awarded) has enabled Cox to
 characterise the complex zeolite structures of materials for a range of applications, including
 drug formulation and automotive catalytic convertors.


 4     Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1   Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Our strategic focus on supporting collaborations to enhance the quality of our research and
 income generation is evidenced by 77% of our publications in this assessment period being with
 international or national co-authors (SciVal) and staff in our Unit collaborating with researchers in
 >50 countries in Asia, Europe and the Americas. Research collaborations with the USA feature
 strongly in IBBS’ research portfolio and include prestigious institutes such as Harvard Medical


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 School, Johns Hopkins University, Rutgers University and Woods Hole Laboratories. European
 collaborations are also extensive and include Max Planck, INSERM, CNRS and EMBL. Our
 formal research partnership with the US National Renewable Energy Laboratories includes
 McGeehan, Pickford and Robson as affiliate members of the Centre for Bioenergy Innovation
 and has supported staff and student exchanges for research and training, jointly-funded PhD
 studentships and high-quality joint publications (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.). Similarly, partnerships
 with the Nencki Institute, Poland, and Nihon University, Japan, have facilitated exchanges (Butt,
 Górecki, Guille, Hafizi, Lalatsa, Lewis, Swinny), publications, funded research projects and PGR
 studentships.

 All submitted staff have led or contributed to collaborative projects, networks or partnerships;
 notable examples include:

  structural biologists in the CEI, led by McGeehan, with NREL and DLS, on structure-led
   engineering of lignin- and plastic-digesting enzymes. The long-term partnership with NREL,
   places our researchers in a highly competitive position for access to funding, training and
   international networks, while providing the critical mass for leveraging industry engagement
   with large multinationals. Through this, McGeehan is on the leadership team, and the UoP is
   the only non-US member, of the US Dept of Energy BOTTLE consortium, the largest US R&D
   consortium in plastics recycling, which includes MIT, Montana State University and Oak
   Ridge National Laboratory;

  Guille and Sharpe with clinicians at the UHS and the Wessex NHS Genomic Medicine
   Centre, as part of the Genomics England 100,000 Genomes Project, which has identified
   genes involved in neurodevelopmental disorders and clarified variants of unknown
   significance as causative in rare genetic disorders;

  Robson leading UoP’s contribution as one of 15 academic partners providing sequencing and
   analysis capacity to the COG-UK consortium, aiding with regional COVID-19 outbreaks and
   infection control, and providing coverage of surveillance of viral spread across the country;

  Górecki’s leadership of the European Peptide Research Network of Excellence (2012-2015)
   and UoP participation in IONCHAN-IMMUNRESPON (2014-19), a network of scientists in 15
   European countries working on immune cell physiology and new therapeutic approaches;

  Lalatsa with scientists from Brazil, Ireland, Spain, Paraguay and the USA developing novel
   endocrine therapies for the treatment of breast, brain and brain metastatic tumours, and
   medicinal nanotechnologies for neglected tropical diseases (e.g. leishmaniasis, Chagas
   disease);

  Cox’s molecular simulation approaches for designing and synthesising zeolites for controlled-
   release drug design (with Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and University of Delaware) and
   environmental and biorenewables catalysis (with UCL, St Andrews and the UK’s leading
   commercial catalyst company, Johnson Matthey);




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Butt’s research on neuron and glia regeneration with scientists from Brazil, France, Germany,
   Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and Switzerland; and

  Swinny working with scientists from Germany, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Spain,
   Switzerland and the USA on the molecular, cellular and physiological correlates of the central
   and peripheral nervous system stress circuits.

 IBBS members hold visiting researcher positions at institutions around the world and the Unit
 encourages international researcher visits (e.g. by providing laboratory and research facilities),
 many of which are funded by competitive exchange grants e.g. Royal Society, Marie Curie
 International Fellowship, China-UK R&I Partnership Fund, National Natural Science Foundation
 of China. The IBBS seminar series has run fortnightly throughout the assessment period and
 attracts scientists, clinicians and industry specialists from around the world. In the last 5 years,
 88 of 108 seminars have been delivered by external speakers, providing opportunities for
 discussion, training sessions and collaborative activities with academic and research staff and
 PGRS. We are also members of regional research consortia e.g. Southern 4 Proteomics, South
 Coast RNA, South West Structural Biology (SWSBC), ARUK Southcoast Network, which provide
 access to state-of-the-art instrumentation, exchange of expertise, and advanced training and
 support for ECRs and postdoctoral researchers.

 4.2     Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences

 Our research has wide-ranging societal relevance and clear pathways to impact, that are
 enabled by our collaborations and engagement with research users and key stakeholders.
 These include:

 4.2.1    NHS stakeholders and health and social care providers

 For many years, the partnership with Portsmouth Hospitals University Trust (PHUT) has
 provided our researchers with access to patient tissues and containment facilities for extraction
 of proteins or nucleic acids, for subsequent analyses within UoP laboratories. This collaboration
 enabled a rapid response to the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020 when, with £40k funding
 from the Unit, we temporarily moved our sequencing equipment and staff to PHUT to deliver the
 STOP COVID-19 virus surveillance project. The contribution of PHUT Category C staff (n=3) to
 the Unit is evidenced by joint publications, funding and impact (UoP03MISSION,
 UoP03Oesophagus), supervision of clinical PGRS and delivery of advanced clinical and
 biomedical sciences training and is recognised through Honorary academic positions (Professor
 – Chauhan (2008), Bhandari (2011); Reader – Longcroft-Wheaton (2020)). The Portsmouth
 Technology Trials Unit runs clinical trials, particularly in new healthcare technologies, and has
 supported research projects on smoking cessation in NHS settings and Innovate UK funding
 applications with SMEs.

 Regionally, collaborations with clinicians at UHS have enabled access to expertise, patient
 groups and data. These underpin, for example, clinical trials of inhaled heparin as a treatment
 for patients with CF, and with COVID-19 as part of the Accelerating COVID-19 Research &
 Development (ACCORD-2) multicentre trial (Shute), and Xenopus research identifying causative
 links between genetic mutations and rare human genetic diseases (Guille, Sharpe). Since 2013,


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 UoP has co-led the NIHR RDS South Central (with the Universities of Oxford and Southampton),
 hosting 3 research advisers who support research design, PPI and all aspects of grant
 applications. A Research Nurse, funded by Solent NHS Trust, is employed in the UoP Dental
 Academy (UPDA, led by Louca) to support the evaluation of interventions and outreach to
 improve oral public health. As a member of the Wessex AHSN and ARC, the Unit benefits from
 opportunities for developing academic-clinical career pathways, access to funding, and links to
 relevant communities to ensure that impact is achieved quickly and at scale.

 4.2.2   Patient and public involvement (PPI)

 Increased PPI underpins our growing portfolio of projects with clinical application. Staff
 undertake PPI through specialist charities (e.g. brain tumour (Fillmore, Lloyd, Schubert) and
 dementia (Swinny); the Duchenne Parent Project (Górecki); MS Society (Hafizi); CF Trust
 (Shute); Bladder and Bowel Foundation, Bladder Health UK (Young)), the PTTU, Wessex ARC
 and AHSN, as well as the University's Social Work Inclusion and Ageing Networks. In 2015,
 IBBS supported (£135k) the first birth cohort in Portsmouth; data collected has underpinned
 projects and publications on, for example, the association between genetics and environmental
 exposure on diet, allergy, sleep and temperament. PPI activity has been supported by external
 funding, for example, from the NIHR RDS (to Rutter with patients in GP clinics and the ‘Healthy
 Living’ and ‘Dementia Friendly’ Pharmacy programmes) and from Innovate UK’s ICURe
 programme (by Young’s team as part of broader stakeholder engagement to inform the design
 of a diagnostic kit for OAB).

 4.2.3   Government Agencies

 A number of our researchers work with the UK Defence Science and Technology Laboratory.
 Projects include developing P2X7 inhibitors to protect against post-injury heterotopic ossification
 (Górecki), identifying novel genetic strategies to improve pre-deployment training (Myers), high
 throughput toxicology screens (Parker), novel antibacterial approaches to combatting
 bioterrorism (Callaghan) and biomarker analysis in non-freezing cold injury (Young).

 4.2.4   Biotechnology, drug design and healthcare companies

 Our research develops tools, technologies and resources that can be widely applied to deliver
 impact. Staff receive expert support (3.2) and have secured external funding to support early
 stage commercialisation and translational work. As a result, Callaghan’s unique, patented
 functional-RNA array is being used in collaborative projects with [text removed for publication],
 UK, to develop high-throughput analysis within the RNA epigenetics domain, and [text removed
 for publication], USA, to explore the capability of the RNA array within the oligonucleotide
 therapeutics field and as a high throughput assay for testing gapmer/RNase H drugs. Draheim is
 working with Oxford Drug Design and Wuhan WVSEN Biotechnology Co Ltd, China, to develop
 novel arrays for high-throughput detection of compounds to combat antimicrobial resistance in
 humans and animals, Shute is working with [text removed for publication] to test novel non-
 anticoagulant heparin derivatives as anti-viral, mucolytic and anti-inflammatory agents, and
 Blunn with [text removed for publication] to clinically assess medical implants made by selective
 laser 3D printing. An and Fillmore used the ICURe programme to engage with Public Health
 England and commercial companies [text removed for publication] on development of their ‘All-

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 in-One’ cell line authentication testing kit and Young is at an advanced stage in the development
 of diagnostic kits for OAB with commercial collaborators. Young is also a consultant for TENA
 (incontinence products manufacturer), providing information underpinned by his research for
 patients and carers. The ERDF-funded SIGHT project, launched in August 2019 and led by
 Blunn, supports the adoption of medical innovations in the healthcare sector; it has already
 provided business development support to over 100 SMEs, leveraged £375k private investment
 and was instrumental in facilitating NTL Biologica to establish SARS-CoV-2 genomic testing of
 UoP staff and students. Engagement with industrial partners to deliver the significant potential of
 our enzyme innovation work in the circular economy is supported by our membership of national
 (e.g. UK Circular Plastics Network, High Value Manufacturing Catapult and the BBSRC
 Networks in Industrial Biotechnology and Bioenergy) and international (e.g. BOTTLE) networks.

 4.3   Benefits to the economy and society

 Our research expertise and collaborations deliver a wide range of societal benefits that are
 responsive to national and international priorities. In addition to impacts mentioned previously
 and those captured in our Impact Case Studies, these include:

  New diagnostic technologies, such as Callaghan’s RNA array technology that is being used in
   studies developing a detection method for SARS-Cov-2 and by a number of industrial
   collaborators for screening of RNA therapeutics, the use of the zebrafish model to detect
   environmental pollutants and hazards (Parker) and Young’s biomarker analyses that are
   being used to detect and characterise the physiological effects of stressors in military
   situations;

  New clinical interventions, including an osteointegrated HA porous collar for medical implants
   that prevents loosening and eliminates the need for joint replacement in young patients
   (Blunn, with [text removed for publication], the use of a topical haemostat to control bleeding
   in endoscopic submucosal dissection (Brown), topical delivery of nano-engineered
   anaesthetic formulations for eyelid surgery (Lalatsa), a novel P2X7 blocker treatment for
   DMD, currently in clinical trials in India (Górecki and Duchenne Parent Project), and inhaled
   heparin for the treatment of COPD (Shute);

  New products with improved properties. For example, Roldo works with [text removed for
   publication] to develop oral healthcare products with improved biofilm control, and the
   application of Cox’s computational modelling of structure-function relationships in zeolites has
   underpinned the design and synthesis of new catalysts to control automobile emissions and
   new fertiliser products for high-value amenity markets;

  Changes in clinical practice and national prescribing guidelines on the compatibility and
   stability of IV infused medicines used in paediatric intensive care (Van der Merwe);

  Workforce development supported by new training materials created by Young for Health
   Education England on the management of urinary continence that will be mandatory CPD for
   all relevant NHS staff.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research portfolio addresses international priorities in ageing, dementia and long-term
 conditions, as well as supporting diagnosis, monitoring and therapeutics and responding to
 emerging challenges, such as antimicrobial resistance and virus surveillance. Our
 interdisciplinary research offers significant potential in new public health areas, such as the
 effects of microplastics on human health.

 4.4   Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by our disciplines

 Contributions to the wider scientific community are recognised in workload allocations as an
 important vehicle for extending intellectual leadership. Staff have served as editorial board
 members for 13 journals, including Cells, Scientific Reports and Perspectives in Pharmacology,
 and have guest-edited 6 journal special issues. Unit staff have provided expert review for five
 UKRI Councils, the European Commission and national funding bodies in 16 countries, and
 have chaired or been members of major grants committees, including: Blunn - Scientific
 Foundation, Ireland, allocating €26M in medical technologies in 2018 and 2020; Butt - Finnish
 Academy of Sciences, Agence Nationale de Recherche, National Science Foundation (USA);
 Callaghan - Deputy Chair of BBSRC Committee D and member of sLoLa and iCASE panels that
 have collectively distributed £170M biosciences funding in this assessment period; Guille -
 BBSRC BBR, CNRS/INRA, MRC Advisory Group on Animals in Science, NIH USA; McGeehan -
 DLS User Committee, MaxIV Synchrotoron Crystallography Panel Sweden; Pickford - DLS S
 angle X-ray Scattering Committee; Swinny - Alzheimer’s Society, Parkinson’s UK; Tsibouklis -
 Vice-Chair, Chemistry panel, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships.

 Staff have also convened conferences and symposia e.g. Swinny (Pan-American Congress of
 Physiological Sciences, Brazil, 2014); Guille (UK Xenopus meeting, 2015; 16th International
 Xenopus Meeting, 2016); McGeehan (SWSBC Conference, 2016); Górecki (Bilateral UoP-
 Nencki Polish Academy of Sciences Conference, 2016, 2017); Sharpe, Scarlett (South Coast
 RNA Meeting, 2017); Fillmore (7th annual UK & Ireland Early Career Blood Brain Barrier
 Symposium, 2017).

 We provide expert opinion through advisory and influencing roles, such as: Blunn (President,
 British Orthopaedic Research Society (2016-2019), Orthopaedic Research UK); Guille (NXR,
 USA; RSPCA; DEFRA); Kolstoe (Chair of MOD, PHE and Hampshire A NHS REC; HRA -
 Confidentiality Advisory Group, National Research Ethics Advisory Panel, Emergency COVID-19
 REC); Rutter (Royal Pharmaceutical Society Pharmacy Voice; DSRU, Southampton; Wessex
 AHSN and ARC medicines optimisation groups); Scarlett (Genes’ Committee, Biochemistry
 Society); Shute (CF Trust; DSTL Porton Down; PHE ACCORD-2 COVID-19 triage group);
 Swinny (Coordinator, ARUK South Coast Network); Van der Merwe (Southampton Hospital
 Pharmacy Research Centre R&D Committee); Young (International Consultation on
 Incontinence, Wessex AHSN Healthy Ageing Programme and Focus on Incontinence).
 Callaghan was the UK-Research Staff Association South East Representative and a Panel
 member for the HR Excellence in Research Award (2015-16) and a member of the Vitae
 Research Staff Advisory Group (2014-2016).

 Unit staff have also demonstrated intellectual leadership through high-level contributions to
 science-led policy development. Examples include: Callaghan contributes to recommendations
 on support for research staff development, part-time/flexible working and gender disparity in

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 funding within her BBSRC leadership roles; Draheim provided evidence to the STSC on the UK
 Five Year Antimicrobial Resistance Strategy (2013-2018); Guille led the international community
 response (2019) to EC proposals to designate Xenopus as an Invasive Alien Species; Kolstoe
 advising the HRA on research transparency; Lalatsa was invited to discuss policy changes to
 promote the adoption of new technologies for neglected diseases (British Council Science,
 Brazil, 2015); and Lloyd contributed to the UK Parliament Hansard debate (2016) on brain
 tumour research funding. Our enzyme innovation research features in the BBSRC/UKRI report
 on “UK Industrial Biotechnology impacting everyday lives” (2019) and in the 2018 Analysis &
 Policy Observatory for Synthetic Biology in Australia. In 2017, McGeehan participated in
 exchange visits to Westminster, as part of the Royal Society Parliament Pairing Scheme (with
 Flick Drummond MP) and has contributed to policy debates on addressing “the plastic
 challenge” on the national (Westminster Energy, Environment & Transport Forum (2018), House
 of Lords (2019)) and international (Arctic Circle Assembly, Reykavik (2018), Almedalen Political
 Retreat, Roundtable at Lambeth Palace (2019)) stage. McGeehan was also part of a UK
 delegation to Sweden with the UK Ambassador and Head of Science and Innovation Nordics in
 2018.

 4.5   Engagement with diverse communities and publics

 We are passionate about public engagement and employ a variety of mechanisms to do this.
 Staff and PGRS participate in: public talks; hosting events and laboratory tours (CF Trust, MS
 Society, STEM Days, U3A): Science Fairs (Big Bang @ Solent, Harwell Science Fair); public
 events (Cafe Scientifique, Pint of Science, Portsmouth Victorious Festival); meetings with local
 organisations (Pompey Pensioners, Probus Organisation, Solent Energy & Environment Group,
 Women’s Institute); and delivering STEM sessions in schools across Hampshire. The UPDA
 team work with local authorities on oral public health outreach in some of the most deprived
 wards in the country, for example, with Southampton City Council on the Healthy Early Years
 Award – Mouth programme, with Portsmouth City Council and families on an oral health
 promotion video, and with Solent NHS Trust, schools and nurseries on “tooth-friendly” snacking.
 Throughout the assessment period, researchers have supported fundraising and awareness
 events for paediatric brain tumour charities. Interdisciplinary projects have provided additional
 opportunities to engage the public with our research. For example, genotyping of a crewmember
 and a dog from the Mary Rose (Robson, Scarlett) contributed to the Channel 4 documentary,
 ‘Skeletons of the Mary Rose’ (2019), and to a major exhibition (‘The Many Faces of Tudor
 England’) and the creation of ‘Hatch’, the canine Museum mascot.

 Finally, we engage with global audiences by writing articles in specialist publications, giving
 radio and television interviews and publishing in high-quality journals that attract significant
 media attention. For instance, Young’s research combining patient stratification and urinary
 biomarkers to improve diagnostic accuracy for OAB (Nature Scientific Reports) was reported
 across the UK (Express, i, Mail, Mirror, Nursing Times), in Europe and the USA (Reuters).
 Similarly, McGeehan is routinely invited to speak in the media (e.g. UK, USA, China) and at
 national and international “Science and Society” events on “plastic-eating enzymes”. In 2018,
 McGeehan’s PETase research reached the Altmetric Top 100 from 2.8 million publications. A
 follow-up paper was ranked 39th in Altmetric’s 2020 list of research that most caught the public’s
 imagination. Over the last two years, our research on turning waste into sustainable products


                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and engineering an enzyme that degrades PET plastic has featured in 967 news articles and
 broadcast clips, with a potential reach of over 4 billion.




                                                                                       Page 23
