Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA28 History

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure

 History at the University of Birmingham has long led change in the discipline through pioneering
 scholarship. The Birmingham approach to the past seeks to recover voices unheard, structures
 unseen, and to embed those discoveries within broad historical narratives. In the 1960s, for
 example, our medievalists produced seminal work on peasant studies, and from the 1980s
 Birmingham scholars made distinctive contributions to early-modern studies and nineteenth-
 century working class and social history. In an interdisciplinary environment informed by the
 Birmingham Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies, we were at the forefront of the turn to
 cultural history, employing new critical methods to study popular culture and recognizing the
 political ramifications of such work. History at Birmingham, then, follows a distinguished heritage
 that underpins our current identity as a community of scholars—we are a team of historians
 committed to innovation in the nature and practice of history.

 In our commitment to critically-engaged and diverse approaches to historical enquiry, we have
 moved beyond Europe (in geographical scope and in rethinking the position of Europe within
 global concerns) to encompass a wide range of subject areas and methodologies. Our research
 ranges across fifteen centuries, from medieval Iceland and the late-medieval Ottoman Empire to
 early twentieth-century China and contemporary Egypt and Britain. We pursue our varied
 intellectual interests, historical practices and theoretical frameworks within an environment of
 shared endeavour and critical intervention. Our structures, activities and research themes
 support our individual and collective engagement with the discipline and its place across and
 beyond the academy. Whether it is through examining material culture, the history of the
 environment or states in crisis across the globe, our Department continues to follow this
 Birmingham approach to a rounded and applied study of the past. In resuscitating historical
 experiences that have been obscured, and informing debates around issues such as climate
 change, homelessness and terrorism, we assert and demonstrate history’s relevance in
 contemporary life.

 Research is concentrated in the Department of History, but our place within the wider research
 context of the School of History and Cultures (SHAC)—which also contains the Department of
 African Studies and Anthropology (DASA), the Department of Classics, Ancient History, and
 Archaeology (CAHA) and the Ironbridge International Institute for Cultural Heritage (IIICH)—
 provides an invigorating environment for historical research. The Birmingham Research Institute
 for History and Cultures (BRIHC) further supports an inter- and cross-disciplinary framework for
 research. Within the College of Arts and Law (CAL) and University, there are other clusters of
 historical research and interdisciplinary collaboration, from Modern Languages to the Medical
 School’s History of Medicine Unit, creating an environment where big historical questions can be
 asked, challenged, and answered. Of the 49 staff members (43.2 FTE) submitted in UoA 28, all
 but three sit in the History Department; the exceptions are Reinarz and Heggie (Institute of
 Applied Health Research) and Watt (Political Science and International Studies). In CAL,
 historical research is supported by the College Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (see
 §3.1, §3.3). Beyond the College, research is supported and promoted through the Institute of


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advanced Studies (IAS) (REF5a 2.3.1) which combines expertise from across the breadth of the
 University, and through networks such as the ‘Children and Childhood Network’ (co-directed by
 Laqua-O’Donnell) which ranges across all 5 Colleges with over 160 members.

 Within this wider institutional context, our departmental research culture is cultivated through a
 Department-wide research seminar series and eight research centres:

       Centre for the Study of the Middle Ages (CeSMA)
       Centre for Reformation and Early Modern Studies (CREMS)
       Birmingham Eighteenth-Century Centre (BECC)
       Centre for West Midlands History (CWMH)
       Centre for Modern British Studies (MBS)
       Centre for Modern and Contemporary History (MCH)
       Centre for War Studies (CWS)
       American and Canadian Studies Centre (ACS)

 Our research centres forge and foster interdisciplinary and international connections.
 Membership includes staff from other Schools and Departments across the College, and we
 work especially closely with English Literature and Art History. This cross-School collaboration
 supports interdisciplinary co-supervision of PGRs and acts as an ideas factory for funded
 projects. Our centres are leading international hubs for research in their areas, as evidenced by
 the range of prestigious events and networks they have led; e.g. the ‘Global Middle Ages’
 network with a Past & Present supplement which came out of it (CeSMA) and the Birmingham
 end of the British Academy-funded ‘Commodities of Empire’ network (MCH). CWS has hosted
 Fulbright Distinguished Scholars, BECC hosts a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow, MBS has
 sustained cooperation with Northwestern University (USA), while ACS hosted the British Group
 of Early American Historians in 2019. Staff in CREMS, CWMH and BECC have developed long-
 term engagement projects with local cultural partners, while the Director of CWMH (Dick) was
 awarded an OBE in 2019 for ‘outstanding services to History in the West Midlands’.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

 1.2.1 Achievement of Research Objectives, 2014-2020

 The broad research objectives established in REF2014 were:
 1. to intensify our work around global history, history of religion, heritage, security and conflict,
 and environmental history.
 2. to develop, deepen, and extend our links to other disciplines.
 3. to strengthen our global links and presence, and become a more public-facing group of
 scholars.

 To address these objectives, we developed a new research and impact strategy comprising
 three principal initiatives (see below). Devising these strategic initiatives involved thinking
 critically about our departmental research culture, environment and ethos. As a result, our new
 research and impact strategy is underpinned by strengthened commitments to EDI, research
 integrity and the wellbeing of our researchers within a diverse community; for example, our
 Department’s engagement with Black Lives Matter includes a Race Working Group to steer the
 de-colonising of our research programmes and educational curricula. The same ethical
 principles inform our recruitment strategy (see §2).

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Principal initiatives:

 1. Identifying Areas of Strength and Contemporary Relevance for our Research
 The Department’s diversification and generational change demanded a fresh vision for our
 research strategy. We began in 2015 with a collaborative process, which incorporated (1)
 working groups representing senior and junior scholars transcending period and geographic
 expertise, (2) regular discussion in Department meetings, and (3) extensive opportunities for
 feedback on drafts. It culminated in a day-long workshop in July 2017. Through this process we
 initiated a set of thematic conversations around our collective research interests.

 We settled on four themes that organically cut across our research in the centres and which we
 want to develop further. Those themes are: 1) Materialities; 2) Memory, Identity and Community;
 3) Global Perspectives: Regions and Networks; and 4) State, Society, and Conflict. Across these
 four themes, staff have produced, and are producing, ground-breaking research. With our
 emphasis on the public-facing nature of our work, we stressed the importance of weaving public
 engagement and impact throughout these themes.

 Theme 1: Materialities. How the material world shaped the lives of people in the past has
 become central to historical understanding. Using material culture as a source and an analytical
 approach, our historians examine how historical actors used objects and the built environment to
 express meaning. Historians at Birmingham are at the cutting edge of this field, with world-
 leading publications in medieval, early-modern and modern history (Cardon, Hamling, Harvey,
 Purkis, K. Smith, Sykes) and material history (Hamling, Harvey, K. Smith). Our historians of
 material culture locate practices in domestic sites, streets and workplaces to illuminate the lives
 of those distant from traditional sources of power. Our expertise in material culture led to two
 major AHRC-funded projects, ‘Bearers of the Cross’ (Purkis, PI) and ‘Middling Culture’ (Hamling,
 CI), with associated research fellowships (Weetch, Lilley). Interdisciplinary explorations have
 also been important, with scholars weaving material culture analysis into perspectives from
 visual culture, gender studies, literary studies, archaeology, and anthropology. We continue to
 look for new ways to analyse the material world, forging connections with the theoretical
 frameworks offered by the history of emotions, musicology and sensory history. Our researchers
 have built long-term collaborations with public-heritage organisations, including the Shakespeare
 Birthplace Trust, The National Trust, and the Museum for the Order of St John, to cultivate new
 research questions, extend knowledge of collections, and inform innovative interpretations (§4).

 Theme 2: Memory, Identity and Community. Our second research theme concentrates on
 processes of identity-making and how communities cohere, remember and adapt to change.
 This interest also embraces how events and individuals are memorialised, written about and re-
 presented, as well as how protest and reconciliation contribute to cultural division and
 accommodation. We have engaged beyond HE with this theme through Schaffer’s impact case
 study on the Birmingham Pub Bombings, Dick’s impact project to re-examine the Birmingham
 context of James Watt’s activity and legacy, and Moores’s Heritage Lottery-funded project on
 political activism in the Selly Oak community (adjacent to the University of Birmingham).
 Whether concerned with race, gender, sexuality, personhood, families, religious, political and
 local identities or communities of practice, many of us are investigating and integrating the
 histories and experiences of specific communities into wider historical narratives. This includes
 work on women’s religious communities and networks (Laqua-O’Donnell, Sykes, Moulton,
 Thomas), sexualities and subjectivities (Houlbrook, Moulton), religious identities and groups


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Cust, Millstone, Purkis, Willis, Yarrow), racial formation and identity-making (Chresfield,
 Moulton), social movements (Munro), and Gange’s work on coastal identities.

 Theme 3: Global Perspectives: Regions and Networks. Historians at Birmingham also adopt
 a global approach to history, from the Middle Ages to the 20th century, and this constitutes our
 third theme. We want to rethink history through a global orientation, so that our practice of British
 history, for example, is also transformed by global concerns. We are leading research in the field
 of regionalism (looking at regions usually considered peripheral and their impact on expanding
 and contracting empires, e.g. Callow, Richter, Standen), on geographic imaginaries, and on sub-
 global regions such as the “Global Middle East” (Jackson, Markiewicz, Ryzova) as well as
 humanitarianism, international law, transnational activism, global exploration, and environmental
 and resource history (Gumz, Jackson, Moulton, Richter, Ross, Standen, Uekoetter). We use
 innovative methodological approaches to trace intricate network structures, highlighting the
 transcontinental exchange of ideas, environmental change and its social implications, changing
 patterns of commodity flows and merchant networks, as well as the global proliferation of
 economic concepts and practices. Our research projects range from comparative medieval
 economic history, to the global implications of international law and military occupation, to
 imperial resource extraction (Gumz, Jackson, Ross, Richter, Yarrow, Wickham). Standen and
 Ross respectively co-edited Past & Present special volumes on the topic of the global Middle
 Ages and heritage in the modern world. Campbell’s work on regional identities in Brazil also
 places this subject in a global frame. Birmingham historians show how localities diverge in their
 historical developments and how these developments contributed to the formation of sub-global
 identities.

 Theme 4: State, Society, and Conflict. Birmingham scholars investigate the relationships
 between state and society that led to disruptive, as well as more subtle, forms of conflict across
 a broad time span. We seek to destabilize siloed national histories that still persist across the
 historical field, especially when it concerns conflict. We conceive of violence broadly, and
 examine the social, political, and cultural roots of conflict. Birmingham historians play leading
 roles in research on functions of violence in the formation of personhood, societies and states,
 with projects on ethnic, religious and racial violence from the medieval to the contemporary
 period. Our expertise in research on revolution, military occupation, state formation and state
 collapse puts us at the forefront of research on these issues (Benes, Boff, Brodie, Cutterham,
 Cust, Gumz, Jackson, Richter, Watt). Seghal’s scholarship has informed our knowledge of the
 political economy of the early-modern colonial state in South Asia. Ryzova’s scholarship on the
 Arab spring, straddling the line between ethnography and history, shows how the riotous and
 carnevalesque shapes historical and contemporary revolutionary situations. International
 research networks and research projects focusing on topics such as Children Born of War (Lee),
 economic warfare during the Cold War (Grünbacher) and the social and cultural history of
 money during the First World War (Boff) shows how our Department leads on collaborative and
 impactful research on the history of conflict. Such research has the potential to help us view the
 state as a set of historically-specific practices, whose influence spills across borders, especially
 during moments of conflict.

 2. Birmingham Research Institute for History and Cultures (BRIHC)
 To build on our centres and strengthen the links between them, we founded a new School-level
 laboratory for ambitious, even risky, intellectual endeavours. BRIHC is that laboratory. Led by
 BRIHC’s Director (Yarrow, Brubaker, currently Richter), BRIHC is guided by four commitments:
 1) to intensify cross-disciplinary conversations, 2) to create synergies and encourage research
 innovation, 3) to provide a forum for the public-facing elements of our research, and 4) to bring

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 together PGRs, ECRs and visiting scholars through supporting early-career development and
 wellbeing.

 BRIHC deepens and extends our interdisciplinary and collaborative work through dedicated
 events, social media and newsletters. BRIHC organises lecture series that bring Birmingham
 historians together with scholars of other disciplines to discuss themes such as Materiality
 (2016/17), Self, Personhood and Ego (2017/18) and Ruptures, Continuities and Transitions
 (2019/20). Moreover, BRIHC has led broad, collaborative internal workshops that transcend the
 borders of the research centres (e.g. on the history of firearms, 2018). BRIHC carries through
 the History Department’s equality and diversity agenda among staff and students through
 supporting events connected to Black History Month and International Women’s Day, the
 Department’s Race: Work in Progress Reading Group (since 2018) and workshops such as The
 Meanings of Black History (2017), Masculinities in Twentieth Century Britain (2018) and
 Decolonising Past and Present (2019). BRIHC also supported the staging of performance artist
 Bird La Bird's Travelling Queer Peoples' History (2019).

 By facilitating exchange with international scholarly and non-academic communities, BRIHC
 offers an institutional forum for historically-informed interventions into contemporary issues. This
 has resulted in sustained interdisciplinary collaborations, grant proposals and joint scholarly
 outputs. BRIHC-funded workshops have generated larger follow-up conferences, e.g. Thinking
 through Loss (2016, followed by a Past & Present/BRIHC joint conference, ‘Understanding
 Material Loss through Time and Space’) and Nations, Natures, and Collective Memory (2016,
 co-organised with GHI London, journal special issue). High-profile lectures, such as David
 Graeber’s Debt: The First 5000 Years, were followed up by a multi-disciplinary workshop
 involving 40 academics and political activists, while BRIHC/IAS-supported visits by distinguished
 scholars (Valerie Hansen, Yale, and Patrick Geary, UCLA), have enhanced the Department’s
 international profile.

 BRIHC also augments the Department’s profile through extensive public engagement activities.
 These include the Four Stories Salon (2016), a collaboration between artists and historians at
 the Birmingham Museums and Art & Galleries. BRIHC has supported public-facing conferences,
 such as 1968 and All That (2018), which included talks by film directors and witnesses to the
 1968 Birmingham Sit-in, and the conference Rethinking James Watt (2019), one part of a
 broader impact and engagement project led by Dick.

 BRIHC acts as a hub to integrate ECRs, postdocs and PGRs into the research environment of
 the Department. The BRIHC Seminar established an intellectual and social meeting place for
 ECRs, BRIHC Postdoctoral Research Fellows, and PGR scholarship holders. Four BRIHC
 Postdoctoral Research Fellows have completed their fellowships and are now in positions at
 other universities in the UK and abroad (Afanasyev, Funke, Martin, Anker), with a further
 research fellow (Kampianaki) still in post. Funded by the University, these posts differ from
 standard post-doctoral positions and emphasize innovative activities that mesh with the current
 academic environment, such as support for impact or public engagement.

 Looking to the future, we have set up specific routes through BRIHC to supporting the recovery
 of the Department’s research environment during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. BRIHC is
 coordinating the research centres and organising a single BRIHC Seminar Series. It is also
 supporting research-led teaching by providing online content on the Department’s research
 activities (BRIHC Research in Practice). Moreover, BRIHC is providing a flexible, ECR-focused
 online format to help ECRs navigating the post-Covid-19 academic job market (through

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promoting and supporting funding proposals for ECRs, e.g. following the model of Richter’s
 recent success in securing two Gerda Henkel Fellowships).

 3. Impact and Public Engagement Strategy
 Following REF2014, we sought to support existing partnerships with cultural organisations, e.g.
 via the appointment of a Departmental Impact Fellow (Enis) to work with the Shakespeare
 Birthplace Trust, and to continue the impact work detailed in our impact case studies. We
 identified a range of impact projects across our centres that required dedicated support (staff
 time, advice, funding), created a School Research Impact Lead (K. Smith) to inform activity
 towards impact, and appointed a BRIHC Impact Fellow (Anker) to work with colleagues on these
 projects to extend and enhance the impact of their research. The School’s College-funded
 Research Development Officer (RDO) also provided professional services support and advice to
 staff working on impact activity and projects. Four of these projects (led by Crowson, Lee, Purkis
 and Schaffer), reflecting the research areas of four of our centres, became impact case Studies.

 Our departmental research strategy emphasises the importance of facing outwards as a
 community of scholars, and recognises engagement as a natural part of what we all do, while
 providing a greater sense of direction in building from engagement to impact. We have taken our
 strategy’s commitment to engaged research forward in the following ways:

 Making research outward-facing and open. While some research has a clear path towards
 engagement, we recognised that the Department can play an important role in identifying new
 opportunities for engagement. We appointed a dedicated Public Engagement Lead (Hewitt) who
 undertakes engagement activities himself and organises regular professional development
 sessions with professional services colleagues working in media and cultural partnerships. Our
 Centres actively developed communication networks to ensure that members of the public
 regularly attend their research seminars and events, while speaking at external public talks and
 study days is something we do regularly. Colleagues have written imaginative, creative and
 widely-reviewed works of popular history aimed at engaging public audiences. These include
 Moulton on Dorothy L. Sayers and the fight for women’s rights, and Yarrow’s The Saints: A Short
 History. Gange shared the experience that informed his book about his kayak journey along
 Britain’s Frayed Atlantic Edge in high-profile talks at several public literature festivals. Hamling
 and Dick produced popular books about object collections in partnership with museums in the
 region. K. Smith co-edited and co-produced an open-access collection (published by UCL
 Press), which included chapters by family historians, local historians and academics. Between
 February 2018 and July 2020, it was downloaded 58,443 times. Uekötter regularly works with
 Focus.de and other media outlets to offer historical perspectives on current-affairs issues, while
 Hewitt’s 18 pieces for The Conversation on security and intelligence in the past and present
 have had 623,000 views. Boff, Houlbrook, Qureshi, Thomas and Willis actively and regularly
 blog about their research, engaging with non-academic audiences to give their research a wider
 remit.

 Forming and sustaining relationships with institutions in the museums and heritage
 sector. The Department’s impact strategy seeks to build long-term, wide-ranging, and intensive
 partnerships with cultural organisations. In addition to fostering new collaborations and impacts
 described in our REF2021 impact case studies, the Department has continued to support
 existing relationships from case studies for REF2014. The Impact and Public Engagement
 Leads, together with the RDO, provide staff with advice, help broker new relationships with
 external partners, and assist in applying for internal funding (from the College Impact and


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Fund) to support relationship-building activity. (See §4.1 for details of collaborations
 and partnerships with cultural institutions.)

 Shaping policy, training and understanding in other sectors. Through his position as Senior
 Mentor to Operation Reflect, Boff informed the British Army’s effort to learn lessons from the
 First World War. He also advised leaders of the American, French, and German armies on how
 military history can help us understand contemporary military challenges. Lee’s project ‘Children
 Born of War’ involves advisory work with the UN, including the Victims’ Rights Advocate. Gange
 participates in a Scottish Government-run project, ‘Islands Revival’, which aims to identify the
 cultural/economic requirements for regeneration and sustainable population growth in Scotland’s
 small island communities. Hewitt held talks with soldiers from over 20 countries through NATO’s
 counter-terrorism centre, alongside extensive media engagements in response to acts of
 terrorism worldwide (including contributions to BBC Breakfast, Canadian Broadcasting News
 Channel, CNN, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post). Support for staff engaging in policy work
 or media activity is provided by the University and College’s Public Affairs, Research
 Communications, and Public Engagement Teams. Peer-to-peer advice is also available from
 Hewitt as Public Engagement Lead.

 1.2.2 Research Objectives, 2020-2025

 Our new research strategy, detailing the current principles for the strategic development of the
 Department, was finalised in 2017, and we have been working on embedding these principles
 across our activities. This strategy could not, however, have foreseen Covid-19 with its wide and
 deep impacts on research; implementing this strategy in the present- to medium-term therefore
 involves both shoring up and joining up our ambitions to mitigate risk. To that end, we have
 identified four core areas that will focus our efforts over the next five years:

 1) Intensifying areas of strength is central to sustainability and vitality. We will focus on our
 four research themes and increase support to individuals through coordinated effort (e.g. co-
 produced grant applications). We aim to create research capacity through at least two major
 collaborative grants in each of the four areas in this REF period. We will also intensify
 engagement and impact projects around these four areas, as well as collaborative publications;
 such collective effort will be crucial in regaining momentum post Covid-19. For example,
 Harvey’s 2020 application for a Leverhulme Project Grant (£403,805) ‘Material identities, social
 bodies: embodiment in British Letters, c.1680-1820’, if successful will strengthen our
 Materialities and Memory, Identity and Community themes, and will bring two ECRs to
 Birmingham. We have set up small research groups of colleagues at different career stages as a
 mechanism of peer-support, enhancing the sense of community and further to promote thematic
 connections and collaborative working in the recovery from Covid-19. Meanwhile, the
 Department-wide seminar series is a recent innovation designed to foster discipline-specific and
 critically-aware conversations about the place and practice of history in a changing world. Its
 focus on wider issues and comparative approaches will ensure our scholarship is connected as
 well as engaged.

 The History Department recently took ownership of the Institute for German and European
 Studies (IGES), with Richter as Director, which will strengthen our scholarly community of
 Europeanists within a wider interdisciplinary and international context. It will create synergies
 between existing forums (centres, departments, BRIHC) to ensure an attractive, ambitious
 programme of events focusing on research, public engagement and capacity-building for PGRs.
 Through IGES, we have a goal of three international grants over the next REF period to deepen

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our activity and networks in this area. Again, this strategy has produced early results: Richter’s
 project on ‘East Central Europe during the Interwar Slump’, has just been funded by the Gerda
 Henkel Foundation, supporting two postdoctoral fellows over the next three years.

 2) To concentrate on sustainability in terms of generational change. Since REF2014, we
 appointed a cohort of outstanding ECRs and provided them with tailored support in terms of
 workload reduction, professional development and assistance with funding applications. Given
 this early-career demographic of our Department, a key challenge is providing time and space
 for colleagues moving to mid-career stage, and supporting their next major research project. We
 aim to see through to publication a monograph (or equivalent contribution in substantial articles
 or other research output types) by all of our permanent research staff during the coming REF
 period. To that end, we will introduce research-specific personal development meetings for all
 colleagues and develop our peer-mentoring in small groups across career stages to sustain
 momentum, encourage ambition and foster cross-generational funding applications to support
 the writing of monographs. We will run workshops on the future of the research monograph to
 encourage informed participation in the innovation of format and content in response to
 increasing digital publication and issues of accessibility. In addition to measures intended to
 address EDI issues (detailed in §2.1.1), we will first target colleagues at critical points in their
 research careers with the tailored support provided by the College RKT Office and the
 Department to help them become flourishing mid-career scholars.

 3) To continue to develop the mutually-sustaining relationship between research and
 teaching. We will meet challenges around PGT and PGR recruitment by creating pipelines
 through our UG teaching to M-Level and PGR. This will involve overhauling our existing portfolio
 of MA programmes to align them more fully with our new and evolving strengths. Meanwhile, the
 IGES will provide a new home for European-history PGRs and closely collaborate with the
 Graduate Centre for Europe (GCfE) in Warsaw, thus expanding capacity-building and support
 for ECRs, while further internationalizing the experience for all our PGRs. We intend to more
 intensively support PGRs towards postdoctoral awards through targeted workshops run through
 BRIHC on specific funding schemes in the UK and internationally.

 4) We want to develop more international partnerships in the coming period to facilitate
 global conversations of relevance in the present, and extend the reach and significance of our
 collaborative scholarship. We envisage networks extending from our centres and thematic
 clusters, using MBS’s relationship with Northwestern University as a model for further
 international partnerships. We will focus in particular on developing formal collaborations with
 partner institutions and organisations in North America, reflecting our intensification of research
 on the USA. Our strategy is aligned with the priority regions of the Birmingham International
 Engagement Fund, which we will utilise to support travel for focused engagement with partners.

 1.2.3 Open Research

 The Department consistently has argued for the importance of open research for historians and
 has attempted to find creative ways to make its research openly accessible. Wickham is active
 as a member of the UKRI Open Access working group. Several grants have enabled quantities
 of research material to be placed in openly-accessible repositories. Millstone’s AHRC Early
 Career Grant has made a body of hitherto unknown Stuart-era political pamphlets accessible in
 an online database. Dick created the ‘James Watt 2019’ website, making archive collections and
 sources more visible and accessible online. The ambitious FP7 Cendari Project (Gumz &
 Richter) established an online digital research infrastructure for the study of the medieval era

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the First World War. This was a strategic attempt to bring specialized, expert knowledge into
 the public domain without any barriers.

 These efforts complement UoB’s rigorous Open Research policy. An internal research
 management system (PURE) ensures our compliance with REF Open Access policy for
 archiving pre-print versions of outputs. Disciplinary distinctions are taken into account in the UoB
 policy: monographs and creative works (novels, poetry collections) pose challenges for OA. As a
 result, the University actively works with publishers to make content from monographs and
 scholarly collections available online, wherever cost is not prohibitive. Staff are further supported
 by UoB’s Research Data Management Policy—which is aligned with the Concordat on Open
 Research Data—and its internal repository and affiliated services, including BEAR (Birmingham
 Environment for Academic Research) (REF5a 2.2).

 1.2.4 Research Integrity

 In addition to guidance provided through CPD, Professional Development Review (PDR) and the
 RKT Office, all research in the Department goes through a robust process of Ethical Review. At
 the beginning of a project, an ethical review self-evaluation process allows reflection on any
 ethical risks. We refer any projects identified as medium-risk or higher to a University ethical
 review committee. Several members of the Department serve on the University ethical review
 committee (Hewitt, Purkis, Small) and provide valuable internal advice on ethics and integrity
 (REF5a 2.2).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Development

 Since 2014, the Department developed a sustainable future for its research strengths through a)
 a series of new appointments; and b) enhanced support for existing staff in career development
 and progression. Consequently, our staff demographic shifted over the REF period, with many of
 our ECRs consolidating their careers at Birmingham with promotion to Senior Lecturer and
 Reader.

 Three strategic priorities guided our staffing strategy:

 1. We expanded the diversity of our historical research to new areas of the globe: key
 appointments included Campbell (Brazil), Jackson (Middle East), Markiewicz (Ottoman Empire),
 Ryzova (Egypt), Seghal (South Asia), and Ye (Modern China). We also invested to create a
 cluster of expertise in US history through the appointment of Cutterham, Cardon, Chresfield and
 Munro.

 2. We established a cohort of ECRs whose research intersects with, and enriches, the themes
 of the Department’s research strategy. Such appointments include Brodie (religion in modern
 Germany), Millstone (intellectual networks and political thought), Moulton (Ireland and queer
 history), K. Smith (materialities in eighteenth-century Britain and empire) and Thomas (British
 gender history).

 3. We provided research leadership and boosted areas of emerging strength through the
 appointment of senior scholars such as Harvey, Professorial Research Fellow (gender and the


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 body in eighteenth-century Britain; see REF5a 3.4.1) and through leadership of staff engaged
 with impact (e.g. promotion of Purkis and Hamling to Reader).

 2.1.1 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Our staffing strategy continues to focus on EDI issues, understood as the histories we work on
 and the historians who comprise our Department. Through recruitment, we developed areas of
 expertise around histories of gender and sexuality (Harvey, Houlbrook, Laqua-O’Donnell,
 Moulton, Thomas) and histories of race (Campbell, Cardon, Chresfield, Munro, Qureshi). The
 latter coheres around the ‘Race: A Critical Inquiry’ seminar series. Our Race Working Group
 engages frankly and critically with issues of race from the historical roots of structural racism to
 the contemporary politics of our practices as historians. We have made our curriculum more
 inclusive, deliberately diversifying our reading lists in terms of authors.

 Of the 19 current staff in the UoA hired since REF2014, 8 are women and 1 is non-binary. The
 Department’s BAME staffing increased from 1 member of staff to 5, and the percentage of
 female-to-male staff increased to 37% of the total and 30% of the professoriate, higher than the
 national averages for our discipline. We acknowledge that more work remains to be done to
 make our Department truly diverse, however, and so we have altered our hiring processes to
 further embed EDI considerations. Our E&D Lead is a part of all hiring committees and provides
 advice on shortlisting candidates from an E&D perspective, to ensure greater diversity in our
 candidate pools. The action plan identified in our ongoing Athena Swan application (delayed due
 to Covid-19) makes specific, but wide-ranging, recommendations for the Department. This
 includes continuing our commitment to promoting women to research leadership positions, on
 which we already have followed through with K. Smith’s appointment as School Research
 Impact Lead and Hamling’s recent appointment as departmental Director of Research for 2020-
 23. This builds on the Department’s existing track-record of appointing women to research
 leadership positions, with women serving as previous Directors of Research, our previous Head
 of Department, and our current Head of School. We want to do more to ensure gender balance
 in future leadership, for example, by promoting the Aurora HE’s leadership development initiative
 for women and accommodating workload adjustments for participation. We have also expanded
 membership of REF internal reading panels, to improve gender balance and a range of career
 stages.

 All staff involved in PDR review and recruitment are provided with unconscious bias training to
 make processes as fair as possible. Output selection for REF was undertaken in line with the
 UoB REF Code of Practice, which entailed a multi-layered process to ensure objectivity. UoA
 committee members for the Output Selection Process came from a range of career stages and
 all underwent specialized unconscious bias training designed specifically for the Output
 Selection Process. Equality Impact Assessments were used to ensure that the submission was
 as representative as possible without compromising on quality.

 Career progression for all categories of staff is assisted by a transparent workload model,
 flexibility in scheduling of meetings and teaching hours to accommodate caring responsibilities
 (see below), and the opportunity to temporarily switch to part-time employment at all levels. We
 actively support staff and student groups/networks with equal opportunities agendas (e.g. the
 Women’s Network, Rainbow Network) and encourage research-led historical engagement on
 diversity-related topics (e.g. Black History Month, LGBT Month, International Women’s Day
 events, Black Lives Matter). Moulton founded the Trans Support Network as a College-level
 initiative to provide resources and support to trans students and staff.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Department increased awareness of problems concerning EDI in the history profession
 more widely through an Away Day inspired by the Royal Historical Society’s Report on Race,
 Ethnicity, and Equality. Qureshi led this session and, as a co-author of the RHS report,
 continues to provide vital leadership in this area. Such EDI initiatives at Department and College
 level are further supported by a College Equality Lead, who liaises in turn with the DPVC (ED&I)
 (REF5a 3.4.5).

 2.1.2 Research Development, Sustainability, and Leadership

 In accordance with the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, our support for professional and career development involves creating and
 promoting a positive, inclusive environment and culture in which all researchers can flourish and
 achieve their full potential. The Department’s commitment to the development of academic staff
 and the sustainability of the discipline spans all career stages, from postgraduates to professor.
 All research-active staff receive extensive support through the following mechanisms:

 (1) Formalised processes to set out clear, transparent and consistent expectations for probation
 and promotion, with development towards goals supported through PDR and University
 professional development opportunities (REF5a 3.4.4).

 (2) University-funded research leave: staff can apply for a term of study leave after six terms;
 they can apply for double study leave if starting or finishing a major research project, or if they
 have fulfilled a major administrative role. While pressures caused by Covid-19 required a
 temporary postponement of study leaves in 2020, these will resume as normal from the 2021-22
 academic year onwards.

 (3) Research Day: during term, all staff maintain one day per week for research. This principle is
 embedded in the University’s central timetabling system.

 (4) Protected Time and mentoring for Early Career Researchers. We have reduced the
 teaching workload of newly-appointed Lecturers by 20%. In addition, they do not hold major
 administrative roles and, while they can act as doctoral supervisors if appropriate, an
 experienced colleague acts as the lead supervisor. In addition to regular PDR review, we give
 each ECR an experienced mentor who guides their research towards ambitious, yet phased,
 goals (REF5a 3.4.3). New Lecturers receive accredited teaching training (recognized in
 workload allocation) and are encouraged to take advantage of other University professional
 development opportunities (REF5a 3.4.4).

 (5) Financial Support for research development includes a Personal Research Allowance of
 £1000 p.a. for all full-time research staff members (paused April-November 2020 due to Covid-
 19, but reinstated thereafter). The College Impact and Research Fund provides College seed
 funding for new research and impact projects, and the Birmingham International Engagement
 Fund supports travel to build international partnerships (including international conference
 attendance).

 (6) Leadership training for staff in senior roles. The Department nominates staff members for
 the University’s various academic leadership programmes and supports periods of professional
 training through workload adjustments (REF5a 3.4.4).


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our approach to research development takes into account wider EDI issues, so that staff,
 especially those with caring responsibilities, do not have to decide between University
 obligations and family. University HR policies allow for flexible career pathways which include
 the option to move between research and teaching and teaching-focused contracts, between
 part- and full-time contracts, and allow unpaid sabbaticals. Parental, sick, and carer leave count
 as “time taught” towards study leave. Academic staff on three-legged contracts (i.e. research,
 teaching, and management/administration) who take 6 months or more maternity, adoption or
 shared parental leave receive a term of workload remission for one of the three legs of their
 contract on return to work. This enables staff to re-focus on their research. We also arrange
 meetings between the RKT Office and staff returning from periods of leave to map out grant
 strategies (see §3.1, §3.3 below). To support work/life balance and staff wellbeing, we observe
 normal working hours for departmental business and restrict e-mail to standard working hours
 through our email code of practice. We also start our research seminars earlier in the day to
 ensure staff with caring responsibilities can attend. Staff are supported by the University’s
 Workplace Wellbeing team, which provides employee advice and listening services (REF5a
 3.4.5).

 The Department recognizes difficulties that early- and mid-career staff face with regard to
 research and writing of the second book and associated career progression. This subject of
 discussion features regularly in our Department meetings dedicated to research, held once
 every three weeks. These discussions consider the particular challenge of restricted research
 time for staff with caring responsibilities / dual-career couples or those taking administrative and
 leadership roles. We are aware of specific EDI issues here, recognising that women can start to
 fall behind their male counterparts in promotion at this stage. The University’s workload
 remission for staff returning from parental leave is an important step towards increased support
 in regaining research momentum, but we are keen to further support colleagues at this career
 point. To that end, several members of the Department serve on a University advisory group on
 issues faced by staff with caring responsibilities, while the University’s working group on the
 impact of Covid-19 will also inform enhanced support for these individuals going forward.

 We also recognize that non-research focused staff in our Department do not always have
 access to University-funded support. Teaching Fellows and those on fixed-term contracts can
 apply to the School Outperformance Budget for research support and receive a protected
 Research Day just as permanent research staff do. Teaching Fellows have a research time
 allowance of 10% within their contracts. More widely, the Department (along with the College
 and University) wants to minimize its reliance on teaching-focused fixed-term positions and
 where we do have such positions, we have committed to making them a minimum 1.0 FTE for a
 full year.

 The Department has been a keen participant in the University-supported, competitive,
 Birmingham Fellowship scheme, which supports the development of new generation of leading
 historians (REF5a 3.4.1). During this REF period, 5 Birmingham Fellows joined the Department
 (Beers, Moores, Millstone, Richter, Uekötter). All five have written major monographs with
 leading presses and secured a range of research grants (e.g. AHRC Early Career Standard
 Grants, Thyssen Grant, Henkel Grant).

 We also hosted many fixed-term postdoctoral fellows since 2014 (average of 5 yearly) to further
 support the future of the discipline. These included those connected with external funding,
 including EU and AHRC projects and those funded by the School, including BRIHC.
 Postdoctoral fellows have full access to Department mentoring and are offered teaching

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experience, but no more than 3 hours a week. Many of our postdoctoral fellows have moved on
 to further success as academic researchers. Richter started as a Cendari Postdoctoral Fellow,
 became a Birmingham Fellow, a Senior Lecturer, and now leads BRIHC. Benes began as a
 Cendari Postdoctoral Fellow, became a permanent Lecturer at Birmingham, and went on to
 UCL. Funke, a BRIHC Postdoctoral Fellow, secured a position at the University of Münster.

 2.2 Research Students

 2.2.1 Research Community

 Since 2014, we have strengthened our research community across all career levels. We
 understand the Department as a community of scholars collaborating to invigorate knowledge of
 the past. This understanding gives PGRs a central role in departmental research culture and
 empowers them to contribute to the intellectual agenda within our research centres. PGRs
 helped set the themes / programme for the biannual Modern British Studies conference and
 collaborate on publications with academic staff, e.g. Schaffer and Saima Nasar in Journal of
 Social History and Contemporary British History. We have also encouraged PGR students to run
 various seminar series, which have a lively social media presence (e.g. the Modern and
 Contemporary and Rosetta Forums). The EMREM Forum provides an informal context for
 postgraduates on the medieval and early modern periods to share their research and participate
 in interdisciplinary and cross-period debate. PGRs also run a dedicated peer-reviewed online
 Journal of History and Cultures. Meanwhile, work-in-progress sessions and seminars run by
 research centres provide concrete opportunities for PGRs to present research to other PGRs
 and staff.

 These activities embed PGRs in Department research culture, harness their enthusiasm, and
 facilitate their intellectual and professional development. In addition, UoB history PGRs are
 connected into national and international PGR communities through their participation in
 HistoryLab, or membership of organisations including the Social History Society and Economic
 History Society. We encourage our PGRs to learn about engagement and impact through formal
 and informal channels. AHRC M4C-funded PGRs devise placements with cultural partners to
 develop professional experience outside the HE sector. Impact project leads utilise PGR
 expertise while facilitating transferable skills and public engagement; for example, Hamling’s
 collaboration with SBT produced a publicly-aimed edited book on their object collections,
 involving 4 PGR researchers as contributors). Integration and training also involves inclusion of
 PGRs in fieldwork (e.g. Lee’s interdisciplinary projects in Uganda and Haiti).

 2.2.2 Recruitment

 Through membership of the AHRC M3C and M4C consortia and ESRC Doctoral Training
 Partnerships, we have recruited world-class PhD students. Successful research bids by staff
 (Standen, Lee, K. Smith) have led to further funding for PGRs on CDAs or through ITNs. Further
 research assistance for PGRs from University and College and departmental scholarships
 derives from Wolfson, CAL and SHaC, which currently fully fund eight doctoral students. We
 currently (July 2020) have 47 fully-funded postgraduate students, which exceeds the number of
 research staff in the UoA.

 Recruitment also flows from our research-intensive teaching, evidenced most strikingly
 through examples of co-production from special subject modules and the College-funded
 Undergraduate Research Scholarships (UGRS). This scheme provides opportunities for talented

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students to work alongside academic staff on a variety of research projects. Students from the
 scheme made important contributions to work published by academic staff, e.g. Coffey for
 Moulton. These activities with undergraduates established a route from UG, through to PGT
 programmes embedded within our research centres, onto PhD research. For example, Saxby
 progressed from an UGRS with Houlbrook to PhD research with Houlbrook and Moores, while E.
 Smith moved from an UGRS with Hamling to MA and PhD research with K. Smith.

 2.2.3 EDI

 We are committed to an open, fair and inclusive approach to recruiting PGRs and have created
 robust support mechanisms throughout their studies. Data gathered for our Athena Swan
 application showed that from 2016-17 to 2018-19, the ratio of female-to-male PGRs was
 relatively consistent at between 45.9% to 51.8%, a closer gender balance than within the total
 Birmingham PGR population. The Department has a large number of part-time and mature
 students, who make up slightly more than half of our enrolment. This reflects our deep links with
 local communities, most notably through the Centre for West Midlands History, and our
 commitment to inclusivity through attracting PGRs from non-traditional backgrounds. A
 dedicated welfare team (in addition to assigned academic mentors) provides professional
 pastoral and practical support for the varied needs of our PG researchers. The Welfare Office
 also acts as a conduit to the Student Disability Service, which offers support including a
 Reasonable Adjustment plan, increased access to research materials, and exam (viva)
 adjustments.

 2.2.4 Development

 PGRs participate in the College’s biweekly employability seminars with leaders from business
 and third-sector professionals. Furthermore, they benefit from the University Careers Service,
 which offers one-to-one and group sessions for tailored careers advice. The University and
 College Graduate Schools offer a comprehensive portfolio of skills training courses on research,
 writing, IT, presentation, career development, interpersonal skills and specialised research skills
 (REF5a 3.2). PGRs are encouraged to develop as teachers and are mentored by experienced
 teaching staff. Through University professional development courses, they can become
 associate fellows of the Higher Education Academy. These formal opportunities exist within the
 close relationship PGRs have with the departmental research culture, as outlined above. In the
 interest of supporting that culture, in the last 2 years we opened up the School Overperformance
 Fund to PGRs to apply for £200 in research expenses.

 2.2.5 Progression

 A College progression-monitoring structure supports History PGRs and includes a Development
 Need Analysis, monthly supervisions, and an Annual Progress Review. All first-year PGRs
 discuss their research with a Progress Review Panel, which monitors progress, thesis planning
 and supervisory arrangements. In the second year, there is an external progress assessment.
 All PGRs have a supervisory team of two academic staff members and an independent mentor.
 A portfolio of professional skills and training opportunities are provided by our College Graduate
 School and University Graduate School (e.g. ‘Three Minute Thesis’ competition to develop
 engagement skills) (REF5a 3.2).

 The Head of Postgraduate Studies (Yarrow) supervises the departmental processes and an
 online system records progress following all meetings, facilitating confidential feedback. After

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2015, we initiated a programme of departmental workshops for sharing best practice on PGR
 supervision. Houlbrook’s College of Arts and Law’s Award for Excellence in Doctoral Research
 Supervision (2017) testifies to the effectiveness of these changes. Our year-on-year
 improvement of on-time submission rates is further evidence of the strength of our supervision
 and mentoring. For example, all but one of our M3C students submitted within 4 years. Over this
 cycle, we have supervised more than 90 PhDs to completion. The number of PhD completions
 has been consistent each year.

 2.2.6 Recognition

 Our PGRs’ success in obtaining external recognition through prizes, fellowships, and permanent
 academic posts underscores the quality of our training and our commitment to their long-term
 professional development. PGR Robinson Rhodes won Twentieth Century British History’s
 Duncan Tanner Essay Prize. Our PGRs have secured lectureships at universities such as Bristol
 (Nasar) and KCL (Fox). Akhtar was Past and Present Fellow in Race, Ethnicity, and Equality in
 History at the Institute of Historical Research, and is now Lecturer at Royal Holloway.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Since 2014, significant investment in scholarly, organisational and operational infrastructure has
 increased support for research and impact. This has consisted of intellectual investment in
 thematic research clusters and the establishment of Institutes (detailed in §1.2.1), notably
 BRIHC, with its funded research fellows, to enhance its distinctive interdisciplinary agenda.
 Investment in specialist professional services support staff for research planning and impact has
 improved the quantity and quality of submitted grant applications and informed delivery of
 impactful research (examples detailed in our impact case studies).

 3.1 Research Funding

 Our research strategy encourages grant applications appropriate to career stage so that grants
 grow in tandem with scholarly development. Through PDRs, research mentorship, and
 individually-tailored advice provided by the College Research and Knowledge Transfer Office,
 we help staff to identify the grants that are right for their projects, and to apply for those grants at
 the proper moment in the development of those projects. Our emphasis on collaborative and
 interdisciplinary research has fostered joint applications across institutions, some of which linked
 with external cultural partners to develop our impact agenda. As evidence of our strategy’s
 success, the Department has increased its grant income by 34% in comparison with the last
 REF period, with a consistent level of annual income over the REF cycle and a total income of
 £4,297,862. Since 2014, we have secured external funding from the ERC, AHRC, ESRC,
 Leverhulme Trust, SSHRC, Thyssen Foundation, the Henkel Foundation, British Academy,
 Wellcome, and the National Endowment for the Humanities, to name just a few examples.
 Successful awards range from BA Small Grants to major multi-year awards such as Leverhulme
 MRFs, AHRC Leadership Fellowships and AHRC Standard Grants.

 Many of these grants were linked to the Department’s strategic research themes, from Lee’s
 H2020-funded ITN Grant (£689,950), ‘Children Born of War’, to Purkis’ AHRC Leadership
 Fellowship Grant (£198,848) on material religion and the Crusades. We have also encouraged
 collaborative grants between Department members with varying levels of experience. For
 example, Richter’s AHRC Early Career Standard Grant on state viability contained Gumz as a


                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Co-I, since Gumz had experience directing a major grant (Cendari). Our success in large grants
 with associated research fellows has supported the early careers of 14 post-doctoral
 researchers across our various centres and thematic clusters.

 3.2 Scholarly Infrastructure

 The Library at UoB is critical to our research excellence. UoB’s University Library is the UK’s 7th
 largest, and hosts an outstanding research collection hardly matched outside Oxbridge and
 London. More than 2.8 million items, including over 50,000 scholarly journals, access to some
 300,000 e-books, and several hundred online source collections are the core holdings (REF5a
 4.3). The History book collection grows by over 1000 items annually. The library has strategically
 increased resources in new fields (Asian History) and existing ones (American History). The
 Library hosts the OMGUS files (Office of the Military Government, US, in Germany, 1944-1949),
 one of only 3 in Europe, which allows rare access into US occupation policy, ‘nation building’
 and the Cold War’s emergence. In addition, the Cadbury Research Library holds extensive
 archival materials, including private and family papers (e.g. the Chamberlain and Avon Papers),
 manuscripts, and the University heritage archive. Research in early modern history benefits from
 the University’s world-famous reference and research collection on the English Renaissance at
 the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford-upon-Avon.

 The Library’s dedicated History Subject Advisor provides specialist advice on subject matters
 and resource enhancement. The Library’s Research Skills Team offers formal training
 programmes for research staff and PGRs, e.g. on ‘Influential Research’. The Digital Assets team
 supports Open Access to publications, research theses and data through the institutional
 repository and by managing central budget for “gold” open access (REF5a 2.2).

 The University’s on-campus museums (Barber Institute of Fine Art and Lapworth Museum of
 Geology) hold significant collections and support public engagement. Events include public talks
 at the Barber on object stories (K. Smith, Houlbrook), and Small’s Lapworth Lates public
 workshop on exploration and settlement.

 The Department runs a lively programme of research events to stimulate research
 knowledge, directions and conversations. There are three distinct, but complementary strands of
 activity: our 8 centres run weekly, fortnightly or monthly research talks within their subject focus;
 the interdisciplinary BRIHC seminar series deliberately crosses temporalities, geographies and
 disciplines; then, each term, two senior members of the Department (Harvey and Standen) lead
 free-form discussions on cutting-edge historical debates that encompass the entire field.

 3.3 Operational and Organizational Infrastructure

 We have a robust Department, School, College, and University research infrastructure to
 support all impact and research, including grant applications from first idea to completion of
 project. At the Department level, the Director of Research (Gumz until Aug 2020, then
 Hamling) works closely with the School Research Impact Lead (K. Smith) to unite research
 with public engagement and impact. Impact in the unit is further supported by the RDO. The
 DoR oversees external funding bids and comments on application drafts along with holding
 informal discussions with staff members about their research aspirations. The DoR liaises with
 the College RKT Office to brief them on departmental research and support colleagues applying
 for funding. These meetings include a senior grant facilitator who specializes in UK grants and
 another that specializes in non-UK grants, especially important given the increasing

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internationalisation of our staff. The DoR and Impact Lead also meet with individual members of
 staff to discuss draft applications. In addition, the College RKT Office runs a yearly programme
 of workshops on grants from a range of schemes which culminates with grant writing sessions at
 key points in the year. The close collaboration between the academic research leadership and
 professional research staff members has led to a robust rise in grant applications, with 58
 applications (worth £11.9M) submitted by staff in the School in the 2019-20 academic year. This
 compares with 42 applications worth £5.7M submitted in 2016-17. The College and University
 also provide extensive post-grant support to researchers through workshops designed for PIs,
 easy online access to grant expenditure through New Core, and dedicated professional staff
 who exclusively support researchers with grant management.

 An annual Professional Development Review provides an opportunity for staff members to
 discuss their current and longer-term research and career plans with a colleague. Staff can also
 select a research mentor from the Department for informal research discussions. For individual
 research projects, grant applications, and pipeline impact work, the Department also runs its
 own internal workshops to discuss pre-circulated work and grant applications before
 submission.


 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 Collaborative working, actively contributing to the discipline, and making our research accessible
 for the benefit of society are central to our research strategy. Our emphasis on making research
 outward-facing encourages engagement with diverse communities and publics, evident in the
 reach and significance of impact ranging from work with the Irish community in Birmingham to
 families affected by conflict in Bosnia and Rwanda.

 Historians at UoB are active in a wide range of collaborative arrangements, research projects
 and networks around the world. These begin with local networks and projects with academic and
 external partners in the Midlands and the UK (Dick, Hamling, Harvey, Millstone), extending to
 Germany (Brodie, Grünbacher, Gumz, Millstone, Richter, Ross, Uekötter), Italy (Wickham,
 Gumz), Austria (Gumz, Lee, Millstone), Poland & Lithuania (Richter), Czech Republic (Gumz
 and Richter), China (Ye), Mongolia (Standen), Brazil (Campbell), Spain (Purkis, Wickham),
 Congo and Uganda (Lee), Canada (Lee, Hewitt), and the United States (Cardon, Cutterham,
 Houlbrook, Gumz, Laqua-O’Donnell, Moores, Moulton).

 Collaborations with cultural organisations is a particular strength. For example, Hamling has
 continued to work closely with the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust (SBT) to inform how they
 present historic houses, sites and collections to keep Shakespeare’s material and domestic
 heritage relevant to new audiences. Dick led a major exhibition on James Watt, building on a
 project on Matthew Boulton, with the Library of Birmingham and Birmingham Museum and Art
 Gallery. He secured over £100,000 in Heritage Lottery Funding to mark the bicentenary of Watt’s
 death and promote his contribution to Birmingham’s industrial history. Harvey and K. Smith led a
 project with Birmingham Museums to inform new research introductions to their collections, also
 involving other colleagues and PGRs. K. Smith worked with the National Trust in the Midlands
 region on legacies of colonialism, resulting in two M4C funded Collaborative Doctoral Awards.
 Moores led an HLF-funded initiative within Selly Oak which highlighted histories of activism


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within the area. Alongside creating collections through recording oral histories, the project also
 opened up collections through an exhibition and walking tour.

 Beyond our strong engagement with the regional heritage sector, History’s collaboration with
 national organisations and institutions helped us use our research insights to shape
 understandings of collections and influence public learning and development programmes. For
 example, Qureshi’s work with the Royal Historical Society and the Museums Association
 established guidance for ‘decolonised’ practices. Boff worked on an exhibition with the Imperial
 War Museum as part of his AHRC Leadership Fellowship project, examining how the First World
 War changed the perceptions and uses of money. Crowson’s membership of the Collections and
 Acquisition Board of the Museum of Homelessness informed the creation of this new,
 community-driven social justice museum.

 Various joint research projects with academic colleagues in other institutions have forged
 pathways to public audiences. Reinarz’s AHRC research grant on burns injury and identity in
 Britain 1800-2000, working with CI Ewen at Leeds Metropolitan University, has informed national
 policy around fire safety and prevention plus the work of burns charities and members of fire
 services. Millstone’s AHRC-funded project on manuscript pamphlets recruited volunteers at
 various regional archives to transcribe materials, enhancing skills and involving key stakeholders
 in the co-production of online resources.

 4.2 Wider Influence, Contributions to and Recognition by the Research Base

 All members of this UoA play an active part in the academic community through work as
 editors, members of editorial boards, and academic reviewers. The extent of peer esteem
 for members of the Department is represented by leadership in prestigious scholarly societies;
 members of the UoA have acted as editors of 10 journals and members of the editorial boards of
 14 journals. Crowson was editor of Contemporary British History until 2016; Moores is the
 Associate Editor. Cust was editor of Midlands History until 2017, followed by Dick. Cust is on the
 board of the History of Parliament, Richter is on the board of First World War Studies and
 Cardon is on the board of American Nineteenth-Century History. Laqua O’Donnell is Deputy
 Editor of Renaissance and Reformation Review, Purkis is the founding editor of the Boydell and
 Brewer book series Crusading in Context, Ross is on the board of History, Culture, Modernity,
 while Ryzova and Wickham serve on the editorial board of Past and Present. Schaffer is the co-
 editor of the Journal of Migration History and on the editorial board of Patterns of Prejudice,
 Immigrants and Minorities, and the Journal of Migration History.

 Members of the UoA are active in various national and international committees. Boff is on
 the Council of the National Army Museum. Cust is on the editorial board of the Cultures des
 Révoltes et de Révolution. Wickham is Chair of the AHRC Advisory Board, and was on the
 management committee of the British Academy until 2014. Purkis is a member of the Council of
 The Haskins Society.

 Our historians contribute to the wider research base through a range of collaborative and
 visiting fellowships. Most of our staff are Royal Historical Society Fellows. Beyond this, staff
 have won visiting fellowships and other types of fellowships through competition or invitation.
 Examples include Brodie’s visiting fellowship at the Zentrum für Zeithistorische Forschung in
 Potsdam, Standen’s visiting fellowship at the University of Leiden and University of Oxford,
 Hewitt as Distinguished Scholar in Residence at the SUNY-Plattsburgh Center for the Study of
 Canada, Munro’s Humboldt Fellowship at the University of Rostock, Gange and Moulton each

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 held a visiting fellowship at the National University of Ireland, Galway, Cutterham’s Research
 Fellowship at the International Center for Jefferson Studies, Schaffer’s Visiting Fellowship at the
 Fraenkel Center for Judaic Studies at the University of Michigan, Ross’ Vincent Wright Chair at
 Sciences Po in Paris and Wickham’s visiting professorships at University of California-Los
 Angeles, University of California-Berkeley, and the University of Pisa.

 Department members have received numerous prizes that recognize their contribution to the
 field. Ross won the AHA’s George Louis Beer Prize (2018), Laqua-O’Donnell won the book prize
 of the Women’s History Network (2015), Boff won the Tomlinson prize of the World War I
 Association, as well as the British Army Military Book of the Year, and Beers was the co-winner
 of the Stansky Book Prize of the North American British Studies Association (2017). Millstone
 and Moores were both shortlisted for the Royal Historical Society’s Whitfield Prize, Munro was a
 finalist for the Pauli Murray Prize of the African American Intellectual History Society and
 Moulton was proxime accessit for the Whitfield Prize for Ireland and the Irish, while Ryzova was
 the winner of the Royal Historical Society’s Gladstone Prize. Ryzova also won a Philip
 Leverhulme Prize in 2017. Wickham was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of
 Padua in 2017. Gange won the Highland Book Prize and was longlisted for the Wainwright Prize
 for UK Nature Writing. Similarly, Moulton’s Mutual Admiration Society won an Agatha Award, an
 Anthony Award and was shortlisted for an Edgar Award and a Macavity Award. Such recognition
 demonstrates how our research impacts beyond academic audiences.

 To give just a few examples of high-profile conference organisation and staff participation as
 invited speakers: Moores, Moulton, and Houlbrook organized the Modern British Studies bi-
 annual conference at Birmingham in 2015, 2017, & 2019. Our staff have organized various
 international conferences, including ‘Understanding Material Loss’ at Birmingham (K. Smith); ‘Of
 Great Powers and Failed States’, Herder Institut/University of Marburg (Richter and Gumz),
 ‘Nicht anerkannte Staaten am Ende des Ersten Weltkriegs’ with the German Historical Institute-
 Warsaw (Richter), ‘Extractive Industries and the Environment’ at Oxford (Ross). We delivered
 keynote addresses for a range of prestigious events and institutions including the Eugene Meyer
 Lecture in British History and Literature at Bard College, NY (Crowson), the Annual Special
 Faculty Lecture, University of Oxford (Standen), Masaryk Institute in Prague (Gumz), the LGBT+
 History Month in Leeds (Moulton), Royal Holloway (Purkis), Queens University Belfast
 (Schaffer), The National Museum of Denmark, Copenhagen (K. Smith), University of Erfurt
 (Ross), The Noble Conference 2018 (Uekötter), Società italiana degli storici medievisti
 (Wickham).

 All members of the UoA are active in peer reviewing journal articles, monographs and
 research funders. Since 2014, staff have reviewed articles for field-leading journals such as
 The American Historical Review, Past and Present, The Journal of Modern History, The English
 Historical Review and the Journal of American History. Staff have also reviewed manuscripts for
 book publishers, both university and popular presses, including Harvard, Chicago, Yale,
 Princeton, Cornell, California, Oxford, Cambridge, Manchester, Routledge/Taylor & Francis. 12
 members of the UoA served as members of the AHRC and ESRC Peer Review Colleges. Staff
 acted as internal or external assessors for a wide variety of funding bodies, from the Carnegie
 Trust, the DAAD, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, FWF (Austria), ERC, Institute of
 Advanced Studies (Princeton), Israel Science Foundation’s Individual Research Grants
 Programme, Irish Research Council, Leverhulme, Research Council of Norway, Academy of
 Finland, Research Foundation of Flanders, Wellcome Trust, Wolfson Foundation.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We pursue various opportunities for co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR
 training. Many of our PGRs have benefitted from, and contributed to, research communities that
 extend across and beyond the University. This includes participation in the ‘Shakespeare
 Connected’ network of universities, academics and museum professionals. Our M3C/M4C PGRs
 are often co-supervised with colleagues at other universities and organisations in the region
 (e.g., CDAs with the National Trust and the Black Country Living Museum). Such team-
 supervision creates scholarly networks and wider opportunities for PGR skills and professional
 training. We have taken up the opportunity of work placements available to M3C/M4C PGRs,
 including placements with the Museum of London and Birmingham Museums and Art Gallery.
 PGR researcher Cope accessed the University’s ‘International Relations U21 PhD Scholarship
 Programme’, enabling her to spend a month at the University of Melbourne developing
 collaborations between their Centre for the History of Emotions and CREMS, while PGR
 researchers Pursey and Humble held AHRC international placements in Japan.




                                                                                        Page 20
