Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Stirling
 Unit of Assessment: B11
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 The Division of Computing Science and Mathematics (CSM) in the Faculty of Natural Sciences
 combines cutting-edge, fundamental research in computational and mathematical techniques and
 technologies, together with their application to addressing societal challenges in environment,
 food, health, society and industry. Over the course of this REF period, CSM’s research structure
 and staffing has met the aim set out in REF2014 “to push the boundaries of the levels of complexity
 that we are able to model and handle” in order to tackle and solve difficult practical problems. To
 achieve this, we refined our research group organisation (Figure 1) to promote the close working
 of the computing scientists and mathematicians across CSM on research challenges. Focussing
 collaborations with academics in other disciplines and close engagement with industry and the
 public sector further enhances this cooperative approach. Highlights of our achievements include:

     •   Appointment of 8 new lecturers to broaden and consolidate our research strengths;
     •   Impact through optimisation of industrial scheduling and automated software bug fixing;
     •   Impact on public policy through predictive modelling of environmental issues;
     •   Significant research collaboration, with 80% of our REF-submitted outputs being with
         external collaborators, with 50% international across 14 countries;
     •   New technical capacity, including high performance computing (HPC) for data science, an
         internet of things (IoT) base station, and specialised hardware for low-power vision and
         audition.

 We are a Division with a diverse collaborative network across the University of Stirling (UoS) and
 globally. We have evolved to be the data-driven, computational engine at the heart of each of the
 UoS’s three major research themes of Cultures, Communities and Society; Global Security and
 Resilience; and Living Well. Through our pro-active agenda we lead on 25% (3 of 12) of the
 university-wide research programmes underpinning these themes.

 Our UoA B11 submission consists of 18 FTE staff from CSM. So extensive is our mission-oriented
 collaborative approach that six CSM staff are submitted to four other UoAs where they have their
 most intense research collaborations (A3: Allied Health; A6: Agriculture, Food and Veterinary
 Sciences; C14: Environmental Studies; C20: Social Work and Social Policy).

 We organise our research under three broad research groups (Figure 1):

     •   BIOlogical MODelling (BIOMOD) - predictive modelling of biological systems;
     •   DAta science and Intelligent Systems (DAIS) - data-driven modelling and analytics for
         wider applications in decision-support, scheduling and cyber-security; and
     •   COMputational Mathematics and OptimisatioN (COMMON) - the rigorous development of
         underpinning tools and techniques that are relevant to all application areas.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure1: CSM research groups; porous boundaries with joint PGRs, grants and publications.

 All three groups contain computer scientists and mathematicians developing new techniques and
 their application. Collaboration between groups is encouraged, with a third of our grant
 applications including more than one research group.

 Biological modelling (BIOMOD). B11 members: Cairns, Kirpichnikova, Norman, Shankland; .
 BIOMOD uses predictive modelling and optimisation techniques to describe, analyse and
 understand biological and socio-economic processes. Major application areas are (1) disease
 diagnosis, spread and control in human, animal and plant populations; and (2) global food security,
 particularly identifying vulnerabilities in the food chain. A fundamental focus is on the application
 of multiple approaches to single problems: for example, from population-based to individual
 (agent)-based models of disease spread, allowing mathematical analysis and computer
 simulations to provide complementary views on the same problem Underpinning this is the
 development of new, fundamental techniques for model generation, parameterisation and
 comparison. Antimicrobial resistance is a significant topic with cross-group collaboration with
 DAIS.

 Data Science and Intelligent Systems (DAIS). B11 members: Adair, Bhowmik, Graham,
 Haraldsson, Linson, Ochoa, Noguiera, Swingler; plus Hapca (C20). DAIS innovates brain-inspired
 computational techniques, evolutionary computation, signal processing, search and optimisation
 methodologies and applies them to a wide range of real-world, data-driven challenges. Application
 areas include assistive living, health and social care, cybersecurity, environmental systems and
 resource scheduling. Specialist areas include: analysis and visualisation of fitness landscapes;
 computational vision and image processing, including topics ranging from image watermarking for
 media security to low power vision and contextual image segmentation; automated software
 engineering and brain-inspired algorithms.

 Computational Mathematics and Optimisation (COMMON). B11 members: Bracciali,
 Brownlee, Kolberg, Lee, Li, Maier; plus Farkas (A3). COMMON conducts research in
 computational and mathematical methods for solving complex dynamic problems, including
 symbolic computation and exponential analysis for signal processing; efficient parallel
 computation, metaheuristic and stochastic search methods (with cross-group collaborations with
 DAIS); and blockchain technologies. Leveraging this fundamental research, we apply new
 methods and techniques to solve difficult challenges in, for example, lung and skin cancer
 detection, remote sensing data processing, scheduling in the aviation, building and other

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 industries and power-efficient operation of computer and mobile networks (with cross-group
 collaborations with BIOMOD). COMMON is a new research group that was formed in early 2019
 to combine existing strengths in differential equation modelling and optimisation with significant
 new expertise in important complementary domains, including signal processing and parallel
 computation.

 Research strategy

 Our overall research strategy is to identify, understand and address complex societal challenges
 using computational modelling and analysis. This is a core aim of each of the research groups. To
 address this over-arching aim, we assemble within- and cross-group clusters of researchers to
 develop solutions to challenges based on fundamental improvements in computational methods.
 These methods typically combine traditional computational and mathematical techniques with
 emerging data-driven approaches. The results are developed and deployed in close collaboration
 with specialists in other academic disciplines and the ultimate end-users in the public sector and
 industry. To fulfil this strategy, we work to satisfy the following two aims.

 Aim 1: Develop new approaches to tackling complex societal challenges

 Our research group structure and strategic staff appointments enables us to bring expertise in
 data science, mathematical modelling, signal processing and optimisation, plus software and
 hardware design for efficient computation to address complex challenges. Research groups
 embody a spirit of openness that encourages the sharing of ideas and collaborative working, both
 within and beyond individual RGs. This has led to joint publications and grant applications, plus
 shared supervision of PhD and MSc students. Recent examples of the synergies we are exploiting
 include:

    •   Multimodal data analysis for monitoring aquatic invasive weeds in India: Royal Academy
        of Engineering funded project (£300k) began in April 2020 involving DAIS and BIOMOD
        members, researchers from Biological and Environmental Sciences and Psychology at
        Stirling with external academic collaborators (U.K. and India) and other partners. Aquatic
        weeds cause major decline in food production, with 40% of available freshwater in India
        made unsuitable for fish production. This project uses computational modelling and image
        analysis to predict the extent of water hyacinth, which alone infests 20-25% of utilisable
        water in India. Serious gaming and other community engagement methods are used to
        assess damage caused by weed infestation to local communities and economies;
    •   Antimicrobial resistance is one of the top 10 threats to global health, as identified by the
        World Health Organization. Key to minimising this risk is optimising the use of antibiotics.
        Researchers from BIOMOD and DAIS, with collaborators in Stirling’s Institute of
        Aquaculture, are using predictive modelling and multi-objective optimisation techniques
        applied to scheduling of treatment to minimise the impact of antimicrobial resistance. Their
        prediction of new, more efficient treatment regimes that reduce antibiotic usage is gaining
        media attention (BBC radio interview plus Sunday Times article, Feb 2020);
    •   An integrated approach across our three groups is combining start-of-the-art signal
        processing techniques in exponential analysis with data driven methods to improve
        sensing data analysis in diverse applications from antenna array design to malaria risk
        detection where the challenge is to identify small water bodies from remote sensing data.
        This research is carried out with collaborators in Biological and Environmental Sciences
        Stirling. This work will greatly expand due to an EU Horizon 2020-funded EXPOWER
        research and innovation staff exchange network, beginning in April 2021, enabling
        collaboration with researchers in Belgium, Germany, France, Netherlands, USA, Canada,
        South Africa and Taiwan.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Aim 2: Facilitate collaborative, interdisciplinary research

 In addition to establishing a collegiate atmosphere that encourages collaboration within CSM, we
 develop and nurture collaborations with other academics and stakeholders to identify and
 understand complex challenges that can benefit from our approaches. Stirling’s ethos and scope
 as an institution aids establishing close collaborative links across disciplines. We are highly
 proactive in leveraging Stirling’s strengths in aquaculture, environmental sciences, health and
 sports sciences, social sciences, psychology, business and management, law and philosophy to
 add depth and range to our research. New contacts and collaborations have been formed through
 concerted efforts to create and exploit interaction through cross-disciplinary “away days”,
 participating in the annual Stirling Festival of Research and leading on university-wide research
 programmes: Being Connected; Global Food Security and Contextual learning and processing in
 humans and machines (CONTEXT)

 These mechanisms, and the programmes, have provided the means to bring a broad range of
 researchers together to discover the synergies that exist between disciplines, and what our data-
 centric, computational perspective can bring to many areas. This has led to the submission of
 larger, multidisciplinary grant applications. We have submitted 28% more applications but with a
 rise of 177% in the value of bids per year since 2017.

 Impact strategy
 Impact lies at the heart of our research and we have further intensified impact within our research
 culture through the Faculty Impact Strategy, which encompasses all researchers and research
 students in the Faculty of Natural Sciences. This Strategy has three objectives:

    •   to improve impact literacy through training and the sharing of best practice;
    •   to enable identification of a wide range of potential and ambitious impact objectives;
    •   to maintain an impact support structure; and, to recognise and track impact as it happens.

 To achieve these, we have a CMS Impact Champion who coordinates with the Faculty’s Associate
 Dean of Impact and the Faculty Impact Committee. Our impact case study authors act as ‘impact
 ambassadors’, sharing knowledge, skills, connections and insights gained during their journeys to
 successful impact creation. This collaborative approach allows us to proactively identify and
 respond to challenges/opportunities that arise from changes in circumstances. We share our best
 practice and learn from others across the institution through engagement with Impact Champions
 in other faculties and divisions and the institutional Impact Working Group. The importance of
 impactful research for CSM is recognised and rewarded within our appraisal and development
 process (Achieving Success), in our appointment criteria, and as a criterion for research leave.

 An essential component of our impact strategy is continuing to widen our network of potential end-
 users, so that projects and associated grant applications are formulated with end-user outcomes
 built in from the outset. To support policy/societal impact we work with a range of collaborators
 from other disciplines who provide links to appropriate policy makers and stakeholders. To
 increase our industry contact base, we maintain an extensive Industrial Advisory Board, that
 currently has representatives from 40 local businesses; and we run targeted business
 engagement events, such as our “Computer Vision Showcase” at Stirling in March 2019 that was
 supported by the Scottish CENSIS Innovation Centre. We have embedded industrial links and
 research into our teaching through our Graduate Apprenticeship scheme, our MSc programmes
 in Big Data which have several students funded annually through the Scottish Data Lab who do
 their dissertations with Industry, and our Professional Doctorate. All these opportunities allow staff
 to interact with different types of industry and to develop relationships and research ideas with
 them. Interface, a Scottish Funding Council (SFC)-funded organisation, provides a “match-
 making” service with local businesses seeking academic partnerships. Potential partnerships from
 Interface are directed to relevant academics in CSM by our partner in the university’s Research


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Office, and partnerships resulting from these have led to several of the successful Innovation
 Vouchers listed below.

 Impact is also being fostered through Stirling’s active membership of the Scottish Informatics and
 Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) research pool, which coordinates interaction with industry
 through its business development executive and programmes. SICSA’s annual DemoFest brings
 together researchers at an early stage with commerce and business leaders, where CSM
 researchers and PhD students regularly present their work.

 The success of this integrated approach to impact awareness and generation is exemplified by
 our two impact case studies that involve the work of all three research groups:

 The impact case study on the use of metaheuristics to improve software performance and process
 scheduling involves researchers from COMMON and DAIS and is a direct outcome of EPSRC
 funded research (DAASE project). It is a study led by two of our recent appointments to open
 ended positions who were employed as postdoctoral researchers on the DAASE project and who
 were both able to use their own links with industry and their leadership on the impact agenda to
 enhance their applications for the open-ended posts in a very competitive environment. They were
 supported by two more experienced staff members who, as well as their academic contribution,
 provided strong networks of industrial partners. The strength of this impact case study is the ability
 of these staff members to translate their cutting-edge research into results which are valued and
 used by the industrial partners.

 Our impact case study on environmental sustainability has arisen from research in BIOMOD and
 through an Innovation Voucher enquiry as described above. The other impact described in the
 study comes from a large body of work and long-standing interdisciplinary collaboration with
 colleagues in the biological sciences including collaborators from the James Hutton Institute and
 the Centre for Environment Fisheries and Aquaculture Science who have both supported
 pathways to policy makers and have meant that the research has contributed to policy decisions
 by the Scottish Government.

 Impactful research is pump-primed through a mixture of University and external resources:

    •   Match-funded PhD studentships, in part facilitated through the Scottish Data Lab and
        CENSIS Innovation Centres, with the university research programmes and match-funding
        rounds. Recent examples include match-funding from major companies (BT Research, ST
        Microelectronics), SMEs (Singapore-based FinTech company, Bambu) and publically-
        funded bodies (Scotland’s Rural College: 3 studentships).

    •   Scottish Funding Council Innovation Voucher projects with local companies which aim to
        provide proof of concept for larger follow-on grants. New appointees since 2017 have been
        particularly successful here:
            o A £5k Innovation Voucher in 2020 with Falcon Foodservice Equipment, has now
                led to £60k follow-on project which began in November 2020;
            o A £5k SFC Innovation Voucher with Airspace Unlimited Scotland Ltd in 2020 has
                led to follow on £75k Innovate UK funded project which began in October 2020;
            o Four other Innovation vouchers have been awarded in the last two years and we
                are currently following up on that work.

    •   Other available small-grant mechanisms involving companies and organisations. Recent
        examples are:
           o A £48k grant from the EPSRC Internet of Food Things network for the pilot project
               “Use of sensors to improve pig productivity” in collaboration with the Scottish Pig
               Producers Association and the Agri-Epi centre in Edinburgh;


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


            o   A £27k proof-of-concept grant from Samordningsförbundet Centrala Östergötland,
                Sweden to work with Swedish and Icelandic (Janus Rehabilitation) collaborators
                on the “Rehabilitation Pathway Generator”, with the aim of this leading to longer
                term research and development and wider application e.g. in the NHS in the UK;
            o   A £24k Innovate UK grant with Digiland on the use of blockchain technologies for
                financial inclusion in Bangladesh;
            o   A £100k award from the Defence and Security Accelerator competition for the
                project, “Deep Learning for Depth-Based Image Segmentation”.
           o
    •   Scottish Funding Council Global Challenges Research funding administered by the
        University
           o £5k networking grant to support collaboration with India, which led to a £25k Royal
               Academy of Engineering networking grant and then the £300k project on invasive
               weeds in India described above
           o £25k and £33k grants looking at the use of Earth Observation to understand the
               extent and impact of floods and droughts in Bangladesh and the subsequent impact
               on food security and health, including covid-19.

 The key to our impact strategy is to make awareness of impact a day-to-day activity in our
 research. The university’s research planning system, WorkTribe, provides facilities for recording
 impact from projects. Realising and recording long-term impact requires time and effort that is
 recognised as a legitimate research activity and resourced accordingly with dedicated staff time
 and administration support.

 Future strategic directions

 Through our research and staffing strategy, we have established several major areas of multi-
 disciplinary strength providing a focus for new and early career staff to flourish and ensure their
 progression to senior researchers
 .
 Research in computational techniques will emphasise:

    •   Optimisation: techniques (particularly meta-heuristic) and applications to model
        parameter fitting, automated software engineering, scheduling problems. This builds on
        existing strengths, continuing the type of work underpinning our impact case study on
        application of optimisation. All three research groups are involved in development and use
        of optimisation;
    •   Data-driven predictive modelling: melding traditional mathematical modelling with
        computational and data analytic approaches. This will build particularly on the focus of the
        BIOMOD group but also draw on expertise from DAIS and COMMON. The aim is to be
        able to build better predictive models by creating techniques that automate model
        development, drawing upon machine learning and formal computational methods. This
        broadly includes most of the researchers in CSM;
    •   Vision and image processing: new methods for extracting useful information from
        imaging data obtained from a range of devices including digital cameras and remote
        sensing in different frequency bands. Work with Biological and Environmental Sciences
        BES is creating new techniques in contextual image processing and signal extraction from
        sparse data to maximise the information that can be obtained from very large-scale remote
        sensing data. Collaboration with psychologists is bringing a biological perspective to
        improve computational vision.

 Fitting with the university’s research themes and building on our recent work, new computational
 techniques will be co-developed to solve challenges particularly in two broad application areas in
 which we are making advances:


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Food security: all three foci of our computational techniques are being brought to bear on
        issues that affect the security of our food chains. Building and optimising models of
        components of the food chain to enable identification of key risk points and make
        predictions of interventions to manage risks are the major aims;
    •   Improving health and well-being: All the computational techniques are applied to
        generate increased understanding of societal health risks and to help provide solutions.
        This ranges from predicting disease spread, to diagnosing disease from medical images,
        to enhanced assistive devices to improve quality of life.

 Within these application areas we will place a strong emphasis not just on technological solutions
 to problems, but the entire deployment lifecycle: impact, sustainability, socio-economic effects,
 legal issues. We will do this through our ongoing approach of creating multi and inter-disciplinary
 teams to work on projects, combining technology with sociology, law, management and other
 disciplines.
 Section 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our strategic emphasis is on recruiting and developing staff to strengthen existing areas and to
 add complementary new skills. University investment in our success has allowed us to make eight
 new appointments at lecturer level since 2017. These appointments have strengthened our
 existing research expertise and expanded our range. Expansion includes posts in cybersecurity
 (Bhowmik, Brownlee), plus appointments in computational and mathematical methods for signal
 processing and parallel computation (Lee, Maier), data analytics and machine learning (Adair,
 Nogueira). Continuing strengths in optimisation (Haraldsson) and predictive modelling
 (Kirpichnikova) have been boosted.
 We have a strong record in nurturing staff from an early career stage through to professorships.
 Of the current cohort of four professors, three are due to promotions within this REF period, all
 having started initially as lecturers in CSM. For the first time the professorships in CSM (and B11)
 are now held by a majority of women (Norman, Ochoa, Shankland). In the face of strong, world-
 wide competition, three CSM PDRAs were appointed on merit to the new lectureships (Adair,
 Brownlee, Haraldsson), highlighting the quality of the training they have received in CSM and their
 desire to pursue careers in the academic environment that CSM provides.
 The strength of our research culture and nurturing environment was recognised at a university
 level in April 2019 with the appointment of Norman (BIOMOD) as Institutional Dean of Research
 Engagement and Performance to promote a positive and collaborative research environment
 which helps everyone to reach their potential.
 The CSM management structure ensures that all divisional needs, including research activity, are
 suitably planned and resourced. The Executive group oversees all divisional activities and
 comprises the Head of Division, Director of Learning and Teaching, Director of Research, and
 Director of Research Postgraduates. This group meets fortnightly to ensure the demands of
 research, teaching and administration are effectively met. Adjoining these planning meetings,
 open divisional meetings are held in the informal environment of the divisional coffee room, at
 which all staff can come to raise and discuss any issues with the Executive.
 The Research Committee comprises the Director of Research, Research Group leaders, Director
 of Research Postgraduates, REF coordinators (including Impact), early career researchers and
 research postgraduate representatives, and others on invitation or request. The Committee meets
 monthly to oversee research-related matters, such as resource allocation and planning, and PGR
 progression.
 This management structure supports efficient and effective planning, with clear lines of
 communication for all members of CSM. Decision-making is open to scrutiny and anyone can raise
 matters of concern and agenda items for the Executive or Research Committee. The Divisional
 Research Strategy is maintained as a live document and is further shaped by open discussions
 during annual research away days and during the regular Research Group meetings.
 In addition to sharing of ideas and active research, the three research groups provide a fostering
 environment particularly for early career researchers, including:
                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    • Grant proposal formulation and early-stage review;
    • Paper writing early-stage review;
    • Sandpits to generate new research initiatives;
    • Mix of skills: grant writing, paper writing, technical, outreach, impact;
    • Exposure of PDRAs to wider perspectives on managing research;
    • Celebration of success and sharing of progress in a supportive team environment.
 A variety of mechanisms are used to facilitate staff development and enable staff to set and
 achieve personal goals, in keeping with university and divisional aims and strategy:
    • Careful time management through workload modelling is aimed at ensuring that all staff
        have appropriate dedicated research time, ranging from 100% for PDRAs to at least 40%
        for individuals on Research and Teaching contracts, at all stages of career progression.
        Research time is further prioritised for new / early career staff and those with significant
        grant income, altering the balance in favour of research time;
    • The annual “Achieving Success” process is used to support staff in all aspects of their
        academic endeavours, including planning for and achieving their best possible career
        trajectory. A personal plan for the coming year (with thought to longer term goals) is
        developed in consultation with their line manager (Head of Division). The emphasis is on
        ensuring that staff have clearly defined goals, and that any barriers to achieving these
        goals are identified and can be minimised through planning and resource allocation at the
        individual and divisional / faculty level;
    • Training and refresher sessions for new and experienced staff in effective PhD supervision
        is encouraged, particularly through training sessions organised by the university’s Institute
        of Advanced Studies, which oversees all aspects of PGR training;
    • Senior and progressing staff are facilitated to undergo management training programmes.
        For example, four staff have gone through the award winning, institutional specific ILM
        level 5 leadership and management training. Two of our staff regularly contribute to the
        Aurora programme, which is Advance HE’s leadership development initiative for women,
        as role models, mentors and presenters. Several staff have also undertaken that
        programme;
    • All staff, but particularly early career staff are encouraged to take part in the locally run
        Stirling crucible which provides training and network opportunities;
    • All research-active staff are encouraged to apply for research leave to enable generation
        of new grant proposals, research outputs and impact. Applications can be made every
        seventh semester and are only successful if the research plan has clear, achievable goals.
        Plans are carefully reviewed by the Research Committee, in consultation with the
        Executive, to ensure divisional needs are met, before presentation to the Dean of Faculty
        for approval;
    • Early career and all new staff have a mentor within the Division. All staff may have a
        mentor, on request. Such mentors may come from outside the Division, allowing staff to
        gain wider views of academic life;
    • Strong support is given for individual fellowship applications, particularly for early career
        staff and postdoctoral fellows on fixed-term contracts: we work closely with the university’s
        Research and Innovation Services to ensure appropriate schemes are targeted and key
        expectations of funders are met. Robust peer review is carried out for all applications.
        Excellent proposals attract extra university support, as needed, including potential for on-
        going appointments beyond the end of fellowships, and PhD studentships being attached
        to the fellowship. For example, Norman secured teaching-buyout during the period of 1
        Sept 2019 to 31 Aug 2021, via a Leverhulme Research Fellowship.

 Research students

 We provide a collegiate atmosphere in which PhD students are fully integrated in research activity
 through CSM research group and PhD cohort activities. The Director of Postgraduate Research
 maintains oversight and direction of PhD recruitment, supervision and training activities.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 University-wide postgraduate research (PGR) community development and training are facilitated
 through the university’s Institute of Advanced Studies.

 All students have a principal and second supervisor. Supervisory meetings are recorded by the
 student on the web-based Research Compass system. Each year, students produce an annual
 report detailing progress to date and plans for completion. This report is then the subject of a viva,
 conducted by two academics who are not members of the supervisory committee. This viva is
 attended by supervisors, who monitor proceedings and may be consulted separately by the
 examiners.

 PGR students gain wider experience and participation in CSM through the following activities:

    •   Postgraduates are represented on CSM research and teaching committees;
    •   Students participate in research group activities, including seminars, discussion groups,
        peer review sessions. They are encouraged to try out conference presentations in these
        groups and to obtain peer review of outputs before submission;
    •   Students run their own research and social meeting group, PGTips, which provides mutual
        support, an informal discussion forum, and opportunity for initial peer review;
    •   Students in the unit run an annual PhD day, which is a mix of poster and oral presentation
        of their work to CSM;
    •   A Computing Science and Mathematics Skills (COSMoS) forum, was initiated by the
        students, who identified the need for exposure to new skills and technologies particular to
        our discipline. Sessions presented by students and staff have ranged from using Latex for
        document preparation, to Bayesian statistical methods, to time management for research;
    •   Further training, including thesis writing and career development, is available through
        workshops run by the university’s Institute of Advances Studies;
    •   Students compete in the Institute of Advanced Studies annual “Three-minute thesis”
        competition, which hones skills in conveying complex research topics to a diverse
        audience and in a concise manner;
    •   Students also participate in Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA)
        events, including the annual PhD conference and the DemoFest outreach event. In 2019,
        Stirling students and staff organised and hosted the SICSA PhD conference.

 We take advantage of match-funding for PGR recruitment through opportunities provided by the
 university and external bodies such as the Scottish Data Lab Innovation Centre, with 25% of the
 current cohort on match-funded studentships. Such studentships are a priority for developing first-
 stage research with impact and in training the next wave of researchers in how to conduct a
 research project in close collaboration with end-users. Students gain significant experience in the
 different cultures and expectations of industry and business.

 In addition, we established a Professional Doctorate in Big Data Science that has admitted its first
 students in 2020. This has a taught component in the first year, for which funded places are
 available through the Scottish Data Lab. The programme is strongly focussed on research projects
 in direct collaboration with business and industry.

 Equality and diversity

 We have an academic appointed as the Equality and Diversity Officer for CSM, and they are
 responsible for ensuring staff are aware of training and support possibilities in this area that the
 university and external organisations may offer. They are proactive in ascertaining issues that
 arise within CSM, and this is a standing agenda item at Divisional meetings.

 The University’s commitment to gender equality was recognised in the institutional Athena SWAN
 Bronze award in 2016. CSM is further committed to achieving Departmental Athena Swan
 recognition, and we are working towards applying for this in November 2021.
                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We have improved awareness of the conscious and unconscious biases that affect all stages of
 recruitment and advancement in research with training for staff on these panels. In addition, our
 approach to recruitment recognises alternative career paths to becoming a researcher in
 computing science, and all panel members are made aware of the potential bias towards non-
 standard routes to academic research, and of the equivalent value of administrative and pastoral
 care duties that may have disproportionally impacted women. Our selection criteria also recognise
 the value of candidates who have made progress in their academic and research careers whilst
 balancing family and caring commitments, or health and other restrictions.

 We have established a diverse cohort of researchers, with staff from Scotland, England, Ireland,
 India, Italy, Russia, Taiwan, Australia, West Indies, USA, Venezuela, Germany, China, Romania,
 Brazil. A third of CSM permanent staff are female, including 3 of 4 professors (8/24).

 The mental health of our staff and students is paramount and underpins planning of work
 arrangements. Senior CSM staff run informal sessions presenting their own experiences and
 inviting discussion, promoting the realisation that mental health issues can affect anyone. The
 Achieving Success process enables staff to raise and discuss barriers to success, including
 achieving a suitable work/life balance and coping with the stresses of their careers. This has been
 vital during the 2020/1 Covid-19 pandemic, and staff have been able to review and revise their
 goals set during Achieving Success in 2019 to reflect the changes in work practices and day-to-
 day living that have been necessary.

 The PGR Director has identified mental health as a key issue for our PGR students and is working
 with them to create a supportive community that prevents students becoming isolated and unable
 to deal with the pressures of their studies. This has been particularly important during 2020, with
 students not able to meet in person. Weekly on-line meetings are used to provide a sense of
 community and ensure students do not feel socially isolated from their peers.

 Flexible working is encouraged through largely informal arrangements, but also by timetabling
 meetings in core hours (10am to 4pm) to allow staff to fulfil family commitments, such as child/adult
 care. University infrastructure facilitates remote working through a comprehensive web portal,
 including secure file sharing. By agreement we restrict expectations to responding to emails to
 basic working hours (9am to 6pm).
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Income is principally from UKRI (EPSRC, BBSRC), Academies (Royal Academy of Engineering,
 Academy of Medical Sciences) and charitable trusts (Carnegie, Leverhulme). Large grant
 applications target GCRF/ODA funding (CSM members are both PIs and CIs on recent bids) and
 EU Horizon 2020. Most grants are collaborative in nature, involving external academic
 investigators and end-user stakeholders. Highlights of major funding led by CSM during the REF
 period:

 EPSRC Programme grant (2012 - 2019, £2.4M Stirling), “DAASE: Dynamic Adaptive Automated
 Software Engineering” involved a consortium of universities including UCL, Birmingham and York.
 It also engaged with a range of stakeholders including ABB Group, Berner and Mattner, BT
 Laboratories, Ericsson, GCHQ, Honda, IBM, Microsoft Research, Motorola and Northrop
 Grumman Air Park Systems and Air France/KLM.

    •   CSM contributed world-leading research in meta-heuristic optimisation techniques to this
        project, which forms the basis of our “optimisation” impact case study. Ochoa was
        promoted from lecturer to professor during the lifetime of the grant, and key researchers
        Brownlee and Haraldsson are new lecturer appointments, ensuring the sustainability of
        this research in CSM beyond the duration of this project.
                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Royal Academy of Engineering funded project (2020 - 2023, Stirling £300k), “Multimodal data
 analysis for monitoring aquatic invasive weeds in India” includes collaborators in Psychology and
 Biological Sciences with external collaborators and partners in both the U.K. and India.

    •   Direct result of workshop funded by an Academy of Medical Sciences Networking grant.
        Brings together expertise in earth observation and computational modelling.

 EPSRC AV-CogHear project grant (2015 - 2019, Stirling £300k), “Towards Visually-driven Speech
 Enhancement For Cognitively-inspired Multi-modal Hearing-aid Devices” in collaboration with
 University of Sheffield, MRC Institute of Hearing Research and Phonak Hearing Systems.

    •   Established a focus on multi-modal machine learning in CSM and this is now a well-
        established theme within the DAIS research group.

 BBSRC project grant (2013-2016, Stirling £240k), “Balancing resource and energy usage for
 optimal performance in a neural system” in collaboration with Universities of Leicester and
 Edinburgh.

    •   Crossed the boundaries of the DAIS and BIOMOD research groups to consider an aspect
        of nervous systems that is relevant to building efficient artificial neural networks.

 EPSRC project grant (2016-2019, Stirling £150k), “TRANSIT: Towards A Robust Airport Decision
 Support System for Intelligent Taxiing” in collaboration with Queen Mary (lead) and Lincoln
 University and external stakeholders.

    •   Complemented DAASE with work on optimisation for complex scheduling.

 Leverhulme research grant (2016-2018, Stirling £100k), “The Cartography of Computational
 Search Spaces”

    •   Fundamental theoretical work underpinning optimisation research in DAASE project and
        DAIS and COMMON research groups.

 Leverhulme Research Fellowship (2019-2021, £55k): “Developing a theoretical understanding of
 non-linearities in the food system and practical ideas to take advantage of them”

    •   Will identify risks in the current food system and what action is needed to avoid them. The
        non-linearities include trade-offs, feedback loops and tipping points.

 To complement large grant bids and diversify our funding base, we encourage bids to smaller
 grant mechanisms, such as Carnegie Research Incentive grants and industrial-based contracts
 through e.g. Innovate UK, Scottish Funding Council (SFC) Innovation Vouchers and focussed
 grant calls. This is particularly helping new members of staff to establish their research
 programmes, such as the examples given in Section 1 under “Impact strategy”, plus:

    •   A £15k Carnegie Research Incentive Grant (2021 to 2022) to consolidate work on
        exponential analysis;
    •   A £10k Carnegie Research Incentive Grant (2019 to 2020) to consolidate work on genetic
        improvement of software (impact case study).

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Specialist research infrastructure centres around high-performance computing facilities for
 computationally intensive model simulation and data analytics, plus related hardware for data
 collection and processing of visual, auditory and remote sensor signals:
                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In 2019, CSM became home to an Internet-of-Things (IoT) base-station, provided courtesy of IoT
 Scotland. Boston networks provides the infrastructure which is being rolled out across Scotland.
 This gateway enables acquiring sensor signals within a 20-mile radius. This is facilitating
 interdisciplinary collaboration with researchers collecting “in-the-field” sensor data, in Aquaculture
 and Biological and Environmental Sciences with CSM providing data processing resources,
 including state-of-the-art data analytics via machine learning and optimisation techniques.

 This facility will play a significant role in the new Scottish International Environment Centre which
 is receiving investment of £22m through the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Growth
 Deal. Through the Environment Centre, the IoT base-station will be complemented by the new
 Forth Valley 5G Innovation Hub, launched in September 2020. These facilities will support the
 Forth Environmental Resilience Array (Forth-ERA) project which will involve the capture,
 processing and sharing of data from across Forth Valley using EE’s 5G network. Sensors, satellite
 data and artificial intelligence will be used to provide vital information on water quality and other
 factors to inform decisions that could provide major economic and sustainability benefits to the
 area. This innovative, cross-disciplinary and cross sectoral approach – bringing together science,
 research, business and regulation – will be a global exemplar of green recovery, which is easily
 scaled and could be replicated worldwide. Forth-ERA will work alongside several regional
 stakeholders, including: the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA), Scottish Water,
 Diageo, NatureScot, Forth Estuary Forum and Forth Valley Chamber of Commerce.

 Other specialist facilities in CSM include a Computational Intelligence lab that houses hardware
 for low-power vision (cameras and FPGA) and audition (silicon cochlea), with a sound-proof
 recording studio. Projects looking at real-time visual object detection and sound-source
 localisation are being undertaken with this hardware.

 Research-specific high-performance computing in CSM includes two large servers that address
 different computational needs. Firstly, a new server has been funded by the Faculty of Natural
 Sciences, Stirling, in 2018 specifically for very large memory requirement and GPU-compatible
 data analysis and provides 768 GB of RAM, 32 CPU cores and 32 TB of data storage. It is
 equipped with 4 Nvidia 1080Ti graphics cards to train and apply Deep Learning Neural Network
 methods. While used heavily within CSM, it is available to any Stirling researcher who needs such
 computational specifications. It is facilitating collaborative work between CSM and other
 researchers at Stirling, such as from Biological and Environmental Sciences. The other HPC
 facility is a cluster with 120 CPU cores, used extensively for parameter searching and optimisation
 tasks involving GAs/EAs. This was originally funded by an EPSRC project grant but has been
 maintained for all to use. We have two full-time computing staff to run and maintain these facilities.
 In addition, Stirling is a partner in, and user of, the ARCHIE-WeSt supercomputer facility housed
 at Strathclyde University.

 Open access is a priority for all research outputs, with the University paying publication fees for
 journal papers to enable this. All outputs are placed in a Stirling’s On-line Research Repository
 (STORRE). In addition, it is strongly encouraged that research data and other research outputs,
 such as computer code, are made freely available through depositing in the University’s data store
 (DataSTORRE) and by distribution on publicly accessible forums, such as GitHub (for computer
 code).
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration
 CSM research is highly collaborative and we generate and work with collaborative groupings over
 a range of domains: within the University and both nationally and internationally with other
 academic institutions and with a range of industry, policy and public stakeholders.

 Most of our research is undertaken in collaboration with internal and external academic and stake-
 holder partners. Academic collaborators include UCL, Sheffield, York, Queen Mary, Lincoln,
                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Edinburgh, Glasgow, Strathclyde, Birmingham and others, principally in Europe and North
 America. We regularly host research visits from international academics, including visitors from
 Canada, USA, France, Belgium, India, South Africa, Switzerland, Spain, Mexico, Finland, Brazil,
 Algeria, Germany, Lithuania, Denmark.

 Scotland-wide interactions are significantly facilitated by our membership of SICSA. New contacts
 are made, and research activity generated through the SICSA research themes and associated
 workshops. Bhowmik is a SICSA Cybersecurity research theme leader. Shankland led the SICSA
 modelling, and abstraction research theme (2012-2016) and Smith (now retired) was a SICSA
 Artificial Intelligence research theme leader. We have run SICSA-supported workshops on:

    •   Real-world transport optimisation (January 2015);
    •   Artificial intelligence (May 2016).

 Funded stake-holder interactions include BT, KLM-Air France, Janus Rehabilitation (Iceland), ST
 Microelectronics, Falcon Foodservice Equipment, DEFRA, DASA, Forestry Commission, Phonak
 AG, Fera Science Ltd, Bambu (Singapore), Scottish Rural College (SRUC), Unitech Ltd, UCare
 Foundation, Marine Science Support and others. These interactions have funded PhD
 studentships and produced high-quality academic outputs and technologies that are being
 deployed by the stakeholders (as evidenced in our impact case studies).

 To widen our links, particularly internationally, CSM researchers have been involved in setting up
 and running funded research networks. These researchers:

    •   have used an Academy of Medical Sciences GCRF Networking £24k grant, in collaboration
        with the National Institute of Plant Health Management, Hyderabad, India, to run a
        workshop in India in April 2019 on “Protecting Food Security in SE Asian Countries by
        Developing Early-Warning and Ready-Response Systems for Invasive Weed Incursions”.
        This has now led to a £300k grant from the Royal Academy of Engineering to carry out a
        substantive project (see Section 3);
    •   chair HPC-enabled Modelling for Life Sciences, in the EU Horizon 2020 cHiPSet Cost
        Action on High-Performance Modelling and Simulation for Big Data Applications, involving
        30+ countries (http://chipset-cost.eu/);
    •   are PI on the EPSRC-funded “Predictive Modelling for Healthcare Technologies through
        Maths (POEMS)” network, with Manchester and Sheffield. This network fostered links
        between academics, clinicians and industrialists to generate new applications for
        mathematical modelling approaches to problems in medicine and healthcare.

 Contributions to the research base

 We are involved in the training of the next generation of scientists through the organisation of
 specialist conferences and workshops, running focussed tutorials at international venues and
 teaching on summer schools:

    •   Bracciali, Organising Chair: Computational Intelligence methods for Bioinformatics and
        Biostatistics. 13th International Meeting, CIBB, Stirling Sept 1-3, 2016;
    •   Bhowmik, Organising Chair: Special session on Multimedia Signal Processing for Cyber-
        security and Privacy. IEEE International Conference on Digital Signal Processing 2017;
    •   Lee, Coordinator: Dagstuhl Seminar 15251 “Sparse modelling and multi-exponential
        analysis”, Schloss Dagstuhl – Leibniz Center for Informatics, Germany, 14-19 June 2015;
    •   Lee, General Chair: Milestones in Computer Algebra (MICA 2016), University of Waterloo,
        Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, 16-18 July 2016;
    •   Lee, Tutorial chair: International Symposium on Symbolic and Algebraic Computation 2020
        (ISSAC 2020), Kalamata, Messinia, Greece, 20-23 July 2020;

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Lee, Tutorials at 19th International Conference on Computer Algebra in Scientific
        Computing (CASC 2017), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China, 18-22 September
        2017;
    •   Ochoa gives regular tutorials at major international conferences, including:
           o Recent Advances on Fitness Landscape Analysis Genetic and Evolutionary
               Computation Conference (GECCO), Prague, Czech Republic, July 2019;
           o LON-Maps: The Cartography of Computational Search Spaces, Parallel Problem
               Solving From Nature (PPSN), Coimbra, Portugal, September 2018;
           o Search-Maps: Visualising and Exploiting the Global Structure of Computational
               Search Spaces, Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference (GECCO),
               Kyoto, Japan, July 2018.
    •   Graham has been an invited lecturer on the Baltic-Nordic Neuroinformatics Summer
        School each year since its inception in 2013 (held in Lithuania, Finland, Estonia, Latvia,
        Poland and Germany so far).

 Our research dissemination includes staff giving keynotes and invited talks at international events,
 for example:

    •   Norman: Invited speaker ECMTB (European conference on Mathematical and Theoretical
        Biology) July 2018;
    •   Lee: Plenary talk at 20th Conference on Applications of Computer Algebra (ACA 2015),
        Fordham University, New York City, New York, USA, 9-12 July 2015;
    •   Ochoa: Keynote Speaker at the Visualisation Methods in Genetic and Evolutionary
        Computation (VizGEC 2019) Workshop, held in conjunction with the Genetic and
        Evolutionary Computation Conference, GECCO 2019, Prague July 2019;
    •   Ochoa: Keynote Speaker at the 13th Artificial Evolution Conference, EA 2017, October 25-
        27, 2017, Paris, France (Ochoa).

 Our conference submissions include several Best Paper Awards:

    •   Ochoa has 4 best paper awards: EvoCOP (2016, 2017, 2019) and GECCO (2018);
    •   Ochoa received the Evo* Award for Outstanding Contribution to Evolutionary Computation
        in Europe 2020 (April);
    •   Swingler won Best paper prize at IJCCI, 2016.

 Staff contribute to the wider academic process through acting as editors and paper reviewers for
 journals and conferences, and by participating in grant reviewing and grant panel meetings for a
 variety of funding bodies. Staff are members of the EPSRC College, BBSRC Pool of Experts and
 Carnegie Trust Research Incentives schemes and so sit on grant panels and regularly review
 grant proposals. Staff have also been on grant panels for EU H2020 and NSF (USA).

 Journal editorial boards: Elsevier journal of Data in Brief (Bhowmik), Special issue on Advances
 in Multimedia Signal Processing for Cybersecurity, Elsevier Journal of Information Security and
 Applications (Bhowmik, Lead guest Editor), Journal of Biological Dynamics (Graham), Journal of
 Animal Ecology (Norman), Consumer Communications and Networking Series for IEEE
 Communications Magazine (Kolberg, Editor), Complex and Intelligent Systems (Brownlee), Peer-
 to-Peer Networking and Applications Journal (Kolberg), Wireless Communications and Mobile
 Computing (Kolberg), ACM Communications in Computer Algebra (Lee, Editor), Journal of
 Symbolic Computation: special issue on Milestone of Computer Algebra (Lee, Guest Editor),
 Evolutionary Computation Journal (Ochoa), IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation
 (Ochoa), ACM Transactions on EvolutionaryLearning and Optimisation (Ochoa, Associate Editor),
 Genetic Programming and Evolvable Machines (Ochoa), Frontiers in Neuroinformatics (Graham).




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Wider contributions to the research base, economy and society

 Through promoting women in computing on the UK stage, Shankland acts as a role model and
 plays a major role in promoting science in the wider academic and public domains:

    •   Chair of BCS Women in Computing Research (2015-);
    •   Durham Lovelace lecture invited speaker 2016;
    •   Keynote speaker at
           o Aurora 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 (AdvanceHE leadership training)l
           o International Women’s Day Conference, Aberdeen 2017l
           o LSE Power (London School of Economics annual conference for professional
               services), June 2019l
    •   Award: Suffrage Science Computer Science and Mathematics 2016l
    •   Award: Scottish Woman of the Year (Services to Science and Technology) 2017.

 Beyond standard academic outlets, staff contribute their expertise more widely through
 participation on a variety of advisory boards:

    •   Bhowmik: Chair (2018), Ad-hoc-group on Media Blockchain, International JPEG
        standardisation committee (ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG1 (ITU-T SG16));
    •   Bhowmik: Committee member: IST/37 - Coding of picture, audio, multimedia and
        hypermedia information, British Standards Institution (Bhowmik);
    •   Kolberg: ScotlandIS Digital Skills Partnership Advisory Board;
    •   Ochoa: Member of ACM SIGEVO Executive Board (ACM Special Interest Group for
        Genetic and Evolutionary Computation), since 2015;
    •   Swingler: Currently advising Edinburgh City Council and Edinburgh Trams on the
        specification of a driver monitoring system.

 CSM also regularly hosts a series of public lectures at Stirling, entitled “A random walk through
 mathematics and computing science”, during the Spring of each year, to which many staff
 contribute. These attract a diverse audience of around 50 people over a wide age-range from the
 local community. They are a prime mechanism for instilling enthusiasm in computing science and
 mathematics as subjects to study for school-age children, and to stimulate interest in
 undergraduates in the research possibilities in these fields.

 Conclusion

 CSM continues to foster a dynamic and sustainable research environment in which computer
 scientists and mathematicians work together on solving complex challenges facing today’s
 societies, in food and health, the environment, business and social organisation. Predictive
 modelling and data science include many valuable computational approaches to help tackle these
 challenges in our data-rich world. We are building our capacity in developing and exploiting such
 techniques and to further strengthen our interdisciplinary and stakeholder links so that our work
 continues to have significant scientific and practical impact over the long term.




                                                                                          Page 15
