Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA1 Clinical Medicine

  Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  1.1. OVERVIEW
  This UoA1 return emphasises our multi-disciplinary research, centred on the health
  challenges of common diseases affecting the UK population. With 86% (39.6FTE) of our
  return comprising clinical academics, the philosophy of our clinically-led research is to
  deliver transformative outcomes for patients, underpinned by first-rate research across the
  bench-to-bedside spectrum integrated with high quality training, a strong commitment to
  equality and diversity, and engagement of NHS and commercial partners, national bodies,
  patient groups and regional/local stakeholders.

  Top level achievements are:

        Leadership of international genomics consortia discovering novel pathways,
         early detection strategies and risk stratification in cardiovascular, respiratory
         diseases and lung cancer;
        Our drug discovery pipelines taken forward with UoA5 researchers to early and late
         phase clinical trials leading to the implementation of the first new treatment for
         asthma in decades;
        Leadership of global clinical trials transforming patient outcomes and
         international guidelines in cardiovascular disease, stroke, cancer, diabetes and
         respiratory disease;
        One of three top performing universities in the UK for COVID-19 research with
         award of £8.2M government funding. We have been widely acknowledged for our
         agility to respond to the urgent research needs of the pandemic, integrating with
         our local NHS Trust to deliver high patient recruitment to clinical trials (e.g.,
         RECOVERY trial). We have also set up and staffed national test centres, advised
         on the setup of Nightingale hospitals, delivered research in COVID drug delivery,
         infection prevention and protection, and provided leadership of the national CMO-
         prioritised PHOSP-COVID clinical trial (www.phosp.org).

  Since the REF2014 submission, following the appointment of a new Head of College of
  Life Sciences (CLS) and external review, a new organisational structure re-integrated
  research themes within departments to further align laboratory, translational and clinical
  themes. This strategy has allowed consolidation of the UoA1 submission from 78FTE in
  REF2014 to 45.55FTE with a greater focus on clinical implementation of curiosity-driven
  research. Our researchers align with four themes of excellence: Cardiovascular
  (including Stroke and Renal), Respiratory, Diabetes, and Cancer (including Forensic
  Pathology). Our research is underpinned by rich clinical infrastructure that includes the
  Leicester National Institute of Health Research Biomedical Research Centre (NIHR-
  BRC) and NIHR/Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre
  (ECMC) and fosters close working relationships with staff returned in UoA2 (novel trial
  design/technology assessment), UoA5 (discovery pipeline), UoA24 (sports
  science/lifestyle), as well as Units within the College of Science and Engineering (Figure
  1).

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    Figure 1. Leicester UoA1 submission highlighting key themes, infrastructure and multi-
                                 disciplinary interactions


  Our strategy has created a step change in research profile since 2014 resulting in:

        Top 20 world ranking for Clinical Medicine in the Shanghai Academic ranking of
         world universities 2020 and 5 th in the UK
         (www.shanghairanking.com/shanghairanking-subject-rankings/clinical-
         medicine.html);
        The award of the NIHR-BRC in 2016 (Institutional Environment Statement [IES],
         section 4.3), building on our Cardiovascular, Respiratory and Diabetes/Lifestyle
         Biomedical Research Units from 2012, and renewal of the ECMC in 2017, directed
         by our leading female academics Davies and Thomas/Brown, respectively;
        2535 original scientific outputs (~56/FTE) attracting 77,000 citations (~30
         citations/output) with an average FWCI of 3.7;
         >£100M funding income (>£2.2M/FTE), more than double our REF2014 reported
         income (~£1.1.M/FTE), despite the 1.7-fold reduction in FTE, and higher than the
         ~£1.5M/FTE reported by Russell Group Universities for UoA1 in REF2014;
        198 PGR students completing doctoral awards (~4.4/FTE), an increase from
         3.1/FTE in REF2014 and double the 2.2/FTE reported by Russell Group
         Universities in UoA1 in REF2014;
        Increase in the proportion of Early Career Researchers (ECRs) returned from 17%
         in REF2014 to 27%.

  Our strategy is underpinned by research networks and strong patient engagement, with a
  key element being our close partnership with the University Hospitals of Leicester (UHL)
  NHS Trust (Leicester Royal, Leicester General, Glenfield Hospitals) and the
  Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust, reinforced through development of the
  Leicestershire Academic Health Partners (LAHP; Figure 1). The LAHP is further
  strengthened by the Leicester Precision Medicine Institute (LPMI; Figure 1), one of five

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  new research institutes across the University to support research excellence (IES, 2.2).
  This has provided a forum for the LAHP through active investment in new posts and
  facilities, cross-board memberships, joint strategic meetings, and an increase in honorary
  appointments of NHS staff. Joint investment with the NHS Trust is reflected in the NIHR
  Clinical Research Facility award (2016); NIHR Collaboration for Leadership in
  Applied Research and Care (CLAHRC) renewal (2014) and NIHR Applied Research
  Centre (ARC) award (2019); NIHR-accredited Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) award (2013,
  re-accredited 2017); hosting of the NIHR Clinical Research Network East Midlands
  (CRN) in 2014; award of one of only five national NIHR Patient Recruitment Centres
  (2020) leading commercial vaccine trials; and significant industrial partnership e.g. with
  Nipon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT DATA) to support our Clinical Data Science
  Initiative.

  We have promoted an open research environment by encouraging the uptake of
  FigShare as a repository where users can make their research outputs available in a way
  that is discoverable, citable, and shareable, adhering to FAIR principles. During the
  assessment period, 76% of our outputs were published open access, compared to the
  Russell Group average of 63% (SciVal). Research integrity is central to our philosophy
  and commensurate with the Concordat for Research Integrity to which we are a signatory,
  and we regularly disseminate training on Research Integrity and Ethics to all staff and
  students. We became a public signatory of the Declaration on Research Assessment
  (DORA) in 2018, affirming our commitment to the responsible and fair use of research
  metrics.


  1.2. RESEARCH THEMES
  Our research is themed by clinical specialty with precision medicine forming a common
  thread, and an emphasis on the design of innovative clinical studies.

  1.2.1. CARDIOVASCULAR SCIENCES (21FTE)
  The overarching research strategy is based on two key principles: (a) to integrate high
  quality basic, translational, and clinical science research, and (b) to focus on common
  cardiovascular diseases and questions of direct clinical impact and relevance.

  1.2.1.1. Precision and Stratified Medicine. Working with the NIHR-BRC and the LPMI, our
  research focuses on biomarkers, genomics, and imaging predictors of cardiovascular
  disease in both the primary and secondary prevention arenas. Biomarker research (L Ng,
  Squire, Suzuki with D Jones [UoA5]) is undertaken in the van Geest Multi-Omics Facility
  with £10M investment from philanthropy, charity, industry, and the University. International
  collaborations, especially in the EU-funded Biostat-CHF study, have improved
  understanding of therapeutic response in heart failure (L Ng:Eur Heart J 2017;FWCI12.9),
  and identified gut-microbiome-derived metabolites as a molecular link between dietary ‘red
  meat’ and heart disease with scientific and societal impact (featured on BBC1 ‘The Truth
  About Meat’). Industrial partner collaborations, e.g., with NTT, have enabled the
  harmonisation of clinical ‘big data’ to facilitate AI-driven data mining. Our genomics
  researchers (Samani, Bown, Saratzis with Nelson [UoA2], Codd and Ye [UoA5]) have led
  international large-scale genomic studies of aortic aneurysm, coronary artery disease and
  cardiovascular ageing. Their contribution is evidenced by the recent Genome Aggregation
  Database (gnomAD) in Nature, Nature Medicine and Nature Communications and
  involvement in other major databases (GENVASC, BRICCS and the NIHR Biobank). These


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  have identified >160 chromosome loci and underlying disease mechanisms that influence
  coronary artery disease risk (Samani:Nat Genet 2015;FWCI32.6; NEJM 2015;FWCI18.6;
  NEJM 2016;FW CI38.5). In aortic aneurysmal research, we lead the British Heart
  Foundation (BHF)-funded UK Aneurysm Growth Study and the population screening
  research (Bown:Lancet 2018;FWCI6.1) that has informed NICE guidelines (GID-
  CGWAVE0769) and National Screening Committee policy. Our cardiovascular imaging
  group (McCann, Arnold, Singh) led by NIHR Research Professor McCann in close
  collaboration with Davies (Diabetes) and Burton and Graham-Brown (Renal), undertakes
  clinical studies ranging from imaging biomarkers to large-scale clinical trials. Key
  achievements include FDA approval for cardiac use of the MRI contrast agent ‘Gadovist’,
  and the MR-INFORM (McCann:NEJM 2019;FWCI41.7), CEMARC-2 (McCann:JAMA
  2016;FWCI16.3) and CvLPRIT trials (McCann:JACC 2015;FWCI28.2); the latter changing
  international guidelines in patients with multi-vessel coronary artery disease (Impact Case
  Study (ICS) 2, Gershlick).

  1.2.1.2. Clinical Trials. Our research covers the discovery and development of drug and
  device interventions for cardiovascular disease, with translation from preclinical models into
  Phase II and III clinical trials. The impact is on patient outcomes and international
  guidelines, as evidenced in three of our ICSs (Coats, Gershlick, Robinson). Our research
  focused on Arrhythmias and Cardiac Electrophysiology, comprising pre-clinical work that
  has been translated into two patents for a novel clinical method of sudden death risk
  stratification, recognised with the European Heart Rhythm Association Inventors’ Award in
  2016. We have led trials in Interventional Cardiology, including rare coronary phenotypes,
  that have informed acute patient management with drug-eluting stents (Gershlick:NEJM
  2016;FWCI78.9), thrombolysis (Gershlick:JAMA 2019;FWCI20.9) and thrombectomy
  (Gershlick:NEJM 2015;FWCI51.6), and secondary prevention with combination anti-platelet
  therapy (Gershlick:JAMA 2016;FWCI69.7). We identified the first common genetic variant
  associated with Spontaneous Coronary Artery Dissection (SCAD) (Adlam:JACC
  2019;FWCI9.9) leading to publication of the first European Position Statement on this
  condition, and supporting the US Consensus documents for SCAD and Fibromuscular
  dysplasia. We have two patented devices currently in development: the lithocatheter, an
  angioplasty device designed to tackle calcified, tortuous, and chronically occluded arteries
  (MRC-funded), and the PAL-VAD device, an extracardiac left ventricular assist device (BHF-
  funded).

  Our cardiovascular data group integrates nationally and internationally available data to
  answer questions relevant to patient care, for example: the VICORI programme for the first
  time linked national cancer and cardiovascular audits with other datasets to support the
  understanding of the interaction between cancer and heart disease in UK patients. Our
  research on Stroke has focussed on hypertension; a common clinical management problem
  following acute stroke. This has led to revisions of UK, European and US guidelines for the
  management of hypertension following intracerebral haemorrhage (ICS3, Robinson) and
  peri-thrombolysis for ischaemic stroke (Robinson:Lancet 2019;FWCI28.9). The
  ENCHANTED trial of low-dose intravenous thrombolysis has supported individual patient
  decision-making and management (Robinson:NEJM 2016;FWCI31.4), as reflected in the
  latest UK guidelines (Intercollegiate Stroke Working Party, Royal College of Physicians,
  2016).

  In Emergency medicine, our research focuses on two key areas: trauma, particularly the
  use of tranexamic acid (ICS1, Coats); and sepsis, a growing worldwide problem with UK

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  (Coats:NEJM 2015;FWCI130.1) and international collaborative research (Coats:NEJM
  2017;FWCI34.6), changing international sepsis management guidelines away from goal-
  directed approaches. We host a BHF Chair in Cardiac Surgery (Murphy) undertaking
  clinical trials to reduce renal complications of cardiac surgery and their modification by
  diabetes and diet, as well as the adverse impacts of blood transfusion (Murphy:NEJM
  2015;FWCI59.7). Finally, research in Renal Sciences (Barratt, Burton, Graham-Brown
  with Brunskill and Major [UoA2], Didangelos [UoA5] and Smith [UoA24]) includes leadership
  of global Phase II and III clinical trials of new therapies for IgA nephropathy (Barratt:Lancet
  2017;FWCI14.3), a programme of NIHR-funded research into lifestyle and exercise on
  dialysis that culminated in the CYCLE-HD trial as the world’s first randomised trial of in-
  centre nocturnal haemodialysis, and the use of big data to report on risk factors for
  progression and outcomes in chronic kidney disease (see Brunskill [UoA2]).

  1.2.2. RESPIRATORY MEDICINE (9FTE)
  Leicester is a global leader in respiratory research with researchers investigating asthma,
  COPD, lung infections (especially TB and pneumonia), rehabilitation science, and
  pulmonary fibrosis. Our innovative research spans fundamental discovery science through
  to clinical implementation. In an independent worldwide assessment, Leicester had the third
  highest number of publications amongst the top 100 cited papers in asthma between 1960
  and 2017 (doi:j.rmed.2018.03.014). We host the Leicester Institute for Lung Health, the
  MRC/EPSRC National Breathomics Centre, the Centre for Environmental Health and
  Sustainability, and the Leicester Microbial Sciences and Infectious Diseases Centre.
  The key components of our research are based around three areas:

  1.2.2.1. Discovery. We lead several international consortia in the genetics of lung function
  in health and disease. These have led to the identification of numerous novel risk loci for
  lung function (Tobin:Nat Genetics 2014;FWCI3.35; Lancet Resp Med 2016;FWCI12.8),
  COPD (Tobin:Nat Genetics 2017;FWCI8.56; Nat Genetics 2019;FWCI10.95), asthma and
  interstitial lung disease. We examine the expression and function of the molecular targets
  identified in these studies to determine their therapeutic potential (e.g., IL33/ST2
  [Cousins:AJRCCM 2014;FWCI13.53]). We are now undertaking a single-centre academic
  led clinical trial of anti-ST2 in COPD (COPD-ST2OP). We were first to identify an important
  interplay between T2 and T17-mediated immunity in asthma (Bradding:Sci Trans Med
  2015;FWCI27.74). A novel potential therapy developed at Genentech targeting both IL-13
  and IL-17 is now in early phase development. We were the first to demonstrate a role for
  prostaglandin D2 type 2 receptor (DP2) antagonists in decreasing airway smooth muscle
  mass in asthma (Siddiqui:Sci Trans Med 2019FWCI5.31) and its effects on airway
  inflammation in a phase 2 single centre study (Siddiqui:Lancet Resp Med
  2016;FWCI13.18). Based on these findings, several DP2 antagonists are now in late phase
  development for asthma.

  1.2.2.2 Biomarkers and Phenotypes. Our ground-breaking phenotyping research in
  asthma and COPD led to the development of blood and sputum eosinophilia as biomarkers
  of severe asthma and the first novel class of therapeutics for over 15 years (Wardlaw ICS
  UoA5; Brightling:Lancet Resp Med 2014;FWCI10.74). This has transformed the treatment
  of severe asthma and is part of international guidelines. We coordinate the national
  MRC/EPSRC Breathomics centre ‘EMBER’ through which we are developing novel
  biomarkers for diagnosis of different causes of breathlessness, response to biologics, and
  microbial infection (Haldar:Nat Comm 2018;FWCI4.01). These signatures are being
  patented as part of our commercialisation plan. We are working with Mologic Ltd on urinary

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  signatures to predict exacerbations of airways disease (MailOnline) and are validating a
  neural network algorithm and home testing kit, which will be published once patents are
  secured. In addition, we have developed a novel face mask test to rapidly detect early active
  tuberculosis (Barer;Lancet Infect Dis 2020;FWCI2.19), which is being adapted for COVID19
  testing.

  1.2.2.3. Clinical Interventions. We have led anti-IL5 receptor trials for COPD
  (Brightling;Lancet Resp Med 2014;FWCI10.74), as well as anti-IL13 late phase
  programmes (Brightling;Lancet Resp Med 2018;FWCI14.22) and aligned mechanistic trials
  (Brightling;Lancet Resp Med 2019;FWCI8.77). An anti-IL4Rα biologic, targeting the IL4 and
  IL13 receptor, is now a newly licensed therapy for severe asthma. We are currently leading
  mechanistic trials of anti-thymic stromal lymphoietin (CASCADE) and anti-IL5R for asthma
  (CHINOOK) and anti-ST2 for COPD (COPD-ST2OP), as well as an anti-IL5 study in the
  acute setting for COPD (COPD-HELP). We have led the early and late phase trials for anti-
  DP2 in asthma (Siddiqui;Lancet Resp Med 2016;FWCI13.18). The latest phase 3 trials did
  not meet their primary endpoint but other DP2 antagonists remain in late phase trials.

  1.2.3. DIABETES (4FTE)
  The multi-disciplinary Diabetes Research Centre (DRC; Davies with Khunti [UoA2] and
  Edwardson, Evans, Harrington, Rowlands and Yates [UoA24]), established in 2012, is the
  only UK centre of its type recognised by the International Diabetes Federation, and one of
  only seven in Europe that can push new innovations/interventions from experimental
  investigations of mechanism and efficacy in diabetes prevention and management, to
  developing services that are commissioned within routine primary care and directly improve
  patient outcomes. Together with the Centre for Black and Minority Ethnic Health, a
  unique aspect of our DRC is the ability to focus on the increasing prevalence of Type 2
  Diabetes (T2DM) in an ethnic minority population. Davies leads major programmes
  assessing new therapies in T2DM, including the first study of a Glucagon Like Peptide 1
  Receptor Agonists (GLP-1 RA) therapy for obesity in T2DM (Davies:JAMA 2015;FWCI41.3)
  and the largest phase 3 trial of an oral GLP-1 RA (Davies:JAMA 2019;FWCI43.6). Our
  academic obstetrics group (Baker, Stewart, Tan) dovetails with the DRC by bringing
  together biomarker and cardiometabolic expertise. Diabetes is associated with adverse
  outcomes in pregnancy, including pre-eclampsia and fetal growth restriction and our
  research aims to improve outcomes in this area by conducting trials that explore underlying
  mechanisms, improve glucose control (Stewart:Lancet 2017;FWCI25.3; NEJM
  2016;FWCI14.7) and re-purpose drugs (Baker:Lancet Child Adoles Health 2018;FWCI16.1).

  1.2.4. CANCER & PATHOLOGY RESEARCH (10FTE)
  Although small in number,we are a leading cancer centre with global reach, committed to
  improving survival from cancer in an ageing population. Key contributions are in four areas:

  1.2.4.1. Clinical Interventions. We deliver novel adaptive early phase clinical trials to
  establish new treatment paradigms through the Leicester ECMC, underpinned by our
  unique, state-of the Art Hope Against Cancer Clinical Trials Facility (CTF), purpose-built to
  deliver early phase haemato-oncology trials (£12.4M external funding since 2012). This is
  exemplified by our leadership of the British Lung Foundation-funded MiST study, the
  world’s first molecular stratified umbrella trial aimed at accelerating effective therapy for
  mesothelioma. We led on the global first-in-man trial of the BTK inhibitor ONO/GS-4059 in
  relapsed/chemotherapy refractory B-cell malignancies that demonstrated a practice-
  changing improvement of median survival and durable remission (Walter:Blood

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2016;FWCI9.47) and identified the anti-EGFR therapy Panitmumab is as effective as
  cetuximab in the treatment of WTKRAS colorectal cancer (CRC) (Thomas:Lancet Oncology
  2014;FWCI12.13), with these results leading to FDA approval of panitumumab in 2017.

  1.2.4.2. Therapeutic Prevention. A strong emphasis is on the development of agents that can
  delay or prevent cancer, recognised by the recent award of £5.8M by CRUK for a 1500 patient
  platform trial. We have used mouse models and human window trials to define optimal dosing
  and surrogate biomarkers of potential efficacy, with our studies demonstrating a nonlinear dose
  response for the protective effects of the dietary agent resveratrol, establishing the new
  paradigm ‘more is not better’ in therapeutic prevention (Brown;Science Translational Medicine
  2015;FWCI12.18).

  1.2.4.3. Biomarkers: Shaw is internationally recognized as a leader in the liquid biopsy field.
  Her work concurrently profiling mutations and gene amplification in circulating tumour (ct) DNA
  and circulating tumour cells (CTCs) has driven new innovations in personalised medicine and
  early detection. Inbreast cancer, we showed that personalised ctDNA assays detected
  molecular relapse up to two years ahead of clinical relapse in all patients, providing a critical
  window of opportunity for additional therapeutic intervention (Shaw;Clinical Can Res
  2019;FWCI3.78). This research with Natera Inc supported the FDA ‘Breakthrough Device’
  designation (10 May 2019) for their Signatera™ ctDNA test. We are ctDNA and pathology
  leads for the national £13M CRUK TRACERx phylogenetic lung cancer trial, which provided
  the first evidence that ctDNA profiling can identify sub-clonal dynamics and chemotherapy
  resistance before CT scanning (Shaw;Nature 2017;FWCI28.94), whilst unravelling the extent
  of intratumoural heterogeneity and its impact on increased risk of death (Le Quesne;NEJM
  2017;FWCI120.57).

  1.2.4.4. Discovery: We use mouse and human preclinical models to generate mechanistic
  insights and identify novel therapeutic targets. Mouse model studies have identified mTORC1
  as a therapeutic target controlling translational elongation in CRC (Willis:Nature
  2014;FWCI5.67), and novel mechanisms underpinning mesothelioma (Willis:Current Biology
  2017;FWCI4.15) and lung adenocarcinoma (Pritchard:Cell Reports 2020) development.
  Preclinical models that can predict patient responses to novel therapeutics including
  immunotherapies are much sought after and hence investment in an innovative patient-derived
  explant platform, regarded as a ‘bright beacon’ by leaders in the 3D modelling field
  (Pritchard:Cancer Research 2017;FWCI1.82).

  1.2.4.5. Forensic Pathology is aligned to our clinical medicine programmes with our Unit
  being the only academic unit of its type in the UK. A major advance is the demonstration of
  the diagnostic accuracy of post-mortem CT (PMCT) enhanced with targeted coronary
  angiography (Morgan:Lancet 2017:FWCI9.23). Implementation of PMCT as a first line
  technique to avoid invasive autopsy in disaster zones such as Grenfell Tower and the
  religious/cultural benefits to Muslim communities is highlighted in ICS4 (Rutty). PMCT
  studies were also instrumental in the diagnosis of perimortem trauma and scoliosis in the
  skeletal remains of Richard III (Rutty:Lancet 2015;FWCI4.34).

  1.2 FUTURE STRATEGY
  As part of the University’s ‘Reshaping for Excellence’ process, we will consolidate and
  extend our translational and clinical strengths in Cardiovascular, Diabetes and Lifestyle,
  Respiratory, Cancer, and Clinical Data Science towards renewal of our NIHR-BRC and
  ECMC. In collaboration with our main NHS partners, this will include targeted investment in
  ECRs, provision of support for innovation and collaboration among established

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  investigators and enable us to undertake improvements in equipment and infrastructure.
  Our renewed strategy will increase ‘bench-to-bedside’ translation by bringing together core
  facilities and new research platforms, allowing them to be pivot points around which
  fundamental, clinical and applied scientists can interact and generate interdisciplinary
  collaborations. In turn, this will lead to greater research and enterprise success.

  Section 2. People

  2.1. OVERVIEW
  Our research progress and innovations during this REF period were made possible by the
  outstanding endeavour and commitment of our staff and students. Critical to
  enhancing performance, has been our strategy of embedding high quality personal
  development support at all levels and in all professional groups, the delivery of a rigorous
  EDI agenda combined with targeted and strategically-aligned recruitment and
  retention of high-quality staff. Enhancement of the wellbeing of our staff is a common
  thread and has resulted in high levels of staff satisfaction with opportunities for
  promotion, leadership and career development (>80% in all categories; CLS staff survey
  2019), and high rates of overall satisfaction (>80%) among our PGRs.

  2.2. STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
  Leicester takes great pride in its ability to support the careers of its staff, with strong
  commitments to career progression, EDI and ECR development. In 2020, the University
  retained its HR Excellence in Research Award following an 8-year review, which
  recognises implementation of the principles of the Concordat to support the Career
  development of researchers, demonstrating our long-term commitment to these
  principles. A key element to this has been introduction of the flagship Leicester Academic
  Career Map (LACM), which identifies and reviews developmental objectives within the key
  domains of research, teaching, enterprise, leadership, and citizenship. Formal personal
  development discussions (PDDs) are undertaken annually to support promotion and career
  progression and have resulted in the appointment of six Leicester-based ECRs to
  permanent contracts and the promotion of five staff from Associate Professor to Professor
  within this UoA; thus 21% of returned staff were promoted during this REF period.

  2.2.1. Clinical Academic Career Development
  86% of staff (39.6FTE) are clinical academics and 29% (12FTE) are clinical academic
  ECRs; 8 the product of Leicester’s clinical academic career development pathway. A key
  factor in supporting progression has been the establishment of an integrated approach for
  managing clinical academic careers from trainee level to senior leadership. This has been
  achieved by linking various elements of the career path with strong mentorship and
  alignment with external funding bodies, particularly NIHR. This is enhanced by
  national representation of our staff on several clinical academic training panels including
  NIHR (Davies, Bown, McCann), Kidney Research UK (Barratt, Burton), MRC (Tobin),
  National Pre-hospital Emergency Medicine (Rutty) and National Integrated Academic
  Training Advisory Committee (Bown, Barratt (Chair)).

  At undergraduate level, we have revised our intercalated BSc offer and introduced an
  intercalated MSc, allowing medical students to undertake a dedicated 9-month research
  period. Thereafter, our clinical academic trainees are encouraged to enter the Academic
  Foundation programme, which links with our established NIHR Integrated Academic


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Training pathway. Leicester has a strong track-record of supporting NIHR Academic
  Clinical Fellows (61 during this REF period, an improvement from 49 in REF2014) who
  undertake a MRes in Clinical Sciences, comprising taught modules in qualitative and
  quantitative research methods, and a dissertation. Following ACF training, significant
  support for PhD/MD fellowship applications is provided. During this REF period, 54
  clinical PhD/MD students were supported to completion; 19 of these were externally
  funded (NIHR/UKRI/Association for Medical Research Charities (AMRC) or other).

  Following their PhD/MD, trainee clinical academics are encouraged to continue on an
  academic track by pursuing either a Clinical Lectureship (CL) and/or by securing
  external intermediate-level fellowships. Since 2014, 12 of our trainees have progressed
  to CL positions, 7 of whom are returned in this submission, and we currently host 10
  NIHR/AMRC Clinician Scientist Fellows. Since 2014 our CLS/fellows have obtained
  >£600k in project grant funding as PIs and contributed to awards >£3.3M as CIs.
  CL/fellows are extensively mentored through the next transition to a full clinical academic
  post. Examples of successful transition are: Walter progressing from AMRC-funded PhD
  fellow through to CRUK clinical fellow and now to an Associate Professor post; Burton
  was a Leicester trainee who progressed to full Professor and is now a NIHR clinician
  scientist.

  2.2.2. Non-clinical Academic Career Development
  This UoA1 includes submission of 7 non-clinical researchers (6.0FTE) who have a strong
  translational profile supporting clinical implementation of discovery research. Most non-
  clinical academics are returned in UoAs 2, 5 and 24, and therefore non-clinical academic
  career development is considered more broadly. As with the clinical academic career
  pathway, we have improved support for non-clinical academics and ECRs through
  active career management in the form of shadowing initiatives, leadership programmes,
  coaching and mentorship. This is underpinned by the national training roles of some of our
  staff including CRUK New Investigator Committee member (Pritchard) and ECMC Junior
  Investigator Group Lead (Brown). Our investment in career development has generated
  positive outcomes with the support of 53 non-clinical staff to Associate Professor and 29 to
  Professor across CLS. Retaining key staff is also vital for a sustainable research culture
  and we have had some noticeable successes as reflected in the award of Wolfson-Royal
  Society merit awards to Cooper and Pritchard.

  2.2.3. Retention and recruitment
  Strategic recruitment of established and potential future leaders has been directed to
  priority areas. We recruited: Phil Baker from the New Zealand Gravida Centre as Pro-
  Vice-Chancellor and Dean of Medicine, and to strengthen our links between
  cardiometabolic disease to obstetrics, Andrea Cooper from the Trudeau Institute USA and
  David Cousins from Kings College London to strengthen immunology research in
  Respiratory Sciences, John Le Quesne from the CRUK Cambridge Institute to fill a gap in
  cancer pathology, Toru Suzuki from the University of Tokyo to lead our metabolomics and
  clinical data science initiatives and interests in aortic aneurysm, David Adlam from Oxford
  University for his interests in SCAD and development of coronary intervention devices, and
  Bee Tan from Warwick University to integrate diabetes research with obstetrics.

  A further significant step has been the appointment of NHS staff to honorary positions,
  facilitated by the LAHP and LPMI, through an annual round. Applications are assessed


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  against the LACM, resulting in 24 appointed to Honorary Chair and 45 to Honorary
  Associate Professor. Titles are awarded in an annual ceremony with a high profile invited
  guest lecture to celebrate links between the organisations. The production of many joint
  publications and grants testify to the success of this approach, as has the transition of key
  NHS staff to joint UoL contracts (Gershlick, McCann, Moss, Burton).

  2.3 POSTGRADUATE (PGR) STUDENTS
  PGRs are an essential part of our research community, and we are committed to ensuring
  they receive excellent support and training. The University’s Doctoral College (DC) was
  launched in 2017 to replace the previous Graduate School, with a wider remit extending
  across the early-stage career journey to promote seamless transition. Through our high-
  quality training programmes, first rate supervision and provision of many opportunities for
  career progression, we aim to develop rigorous and intrepid researchers, both clinical
  and non-clinical, with world-class capabilities in the leadership, execution, and
  communication of research, prepared for both academic and non-academic careers across
  the globe. Evidence of our success is reflected in consistently higher levels of student
  satisfaction compared to the sector average (see below).

  2.3.1. Recruitment
  198 PGRs across UoA1 disciplines graduated in this REF period, of whom 28% were
  clinically qualified. The rate of completion was 100%, increasing from 82% in REF2014.
  We are proud of the diversity of our UoA1 PGR cohort (41% female and 35% BAME),
  encompassing 32 nationalities: 57% from outside of the UK. In addition to the opportunities
  for clinical trainees mentioned previously, students within UoA1 are supported by four
  doctoral training programmes (DTPs):


        MRC IMPACT DTP that supports 14 students/annum between the Universities of
         Birmingham, Nottingham, and Leicester (total £3.5M with matched contribution
         from each institution). Research projects focus on the theme of Complex Disease.
        BBSRC MIBTP DTP delivers innovative research across the Life Sciences
         economy that includes Integrated Understanding of Health. Initially running from
         2015-19, the programme was renewed in 2020 and includes the Universities of
         Warwick, Birmingham, Leicester, Aston, and Harper Adams (total £20M),
         supporting ~60 students/annum and 9 iCASE students/annum.
        Wellcome Trust DTP in Genetic Epidemiology and Public Health Genomics
         (PI:Tobin, £5.15M) supports 8 students/annum and focusses on better
         understanding of the role of genetic factors in health and disease, with a particular
         focus on inclusivity of under-represented groups.
        BHF 4-year PhD programme in interdisciplinary cardiovascular research linked with
         UHL (£1.64M) supporting 3 students/annum with matched CLS funding for 2
         students/annum.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Many other PGRs are supported by external funders including industry, NIHR, UKRI,
  AMRC, EU, NHS, or by internal funding allocated through the BRC, LPMI and College.
  Overseas government sponsored and self-funded students comprise an additional cohort,
  representing ~15% of students.


                            Self-funded
                                                                  MRC
                      NIH UHL
                      Spire

       Overseas
     government or
                                                                             BBSRC
       Univesrity
                                                                              EPSRC
                                                                               BRC/BRU

                                                                               NIHR Fellowship
           Industry
                                                                              BHF Fellowship
     Commonwealth                                                          Charity
       Fellowship
   European Union



                                      College/ Department




                                Figure 2: Source of PGR funding

  In recognition of the disruption to PGR training caused by the COVID-19 pandemic,
  Leicester provided additional support of £272k in the form of funded extensions, fee
  waivers and emergency hardship funds. This was sector-leading and was incredibly well
  received by our PGR community. A future ambition over the next REF cycle is to grow our
  PGR community by securing additional externally funded DTPs, and to re-build our
  international PGR community post-pandemic.

  2.3.2. Support, Training and Satisfaction
  The PGR training programme is based on the skills and experience that UKRI expects
  PGRs to develop, informed by Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. There are
  >160 training opportunities including: research ethics and integrity, research
  effectiveness (including advanced literature searching, working with big data, visualising
  data, using bibliographic software and FigShare), academic writing, quantitative methods
  (including R and SPSS), designing and measuring impact, and media skills. Students
  benefit from training with industrial sponsors, and our students always enter the national
  BBSRC Biotechnology Young Entrepreneurs’ Scheme (YES), winning in both 2014 and


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2018. The DC provides excellent opportunities for PGRs to showcase their research and
  network. These include: Pint of Science and PubhD; Cafe Research; Three-minute thesis
  presentations; Doctoral inaugural lectures; Images of Research exhibition; and the Festival
  of Postgraduate Research, where some of the University’s best students, selected
  competitively, present their cutting-edge research to academics, employers, and the public.
  The Career Development Service provides advice for students on career planning,
  preparing job applications and CVs, as well as hosting career events focused on subject
  areas in and outside academia. Inspirational career talks by leading female and male
  academics are key components of this PGR experience. PGRs have an increased offering
  for their health and wellbeing, including access to both student and staff provisions, a
  range of 24-hour counselling and supporting services (SilverCloud, Validium) and a series
  of proactive sessions (Mental Health First Aid Training, Stress Management, Resilience).

  The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) 2019/2020 results indicate
  consistently high PGR satisfaction rates across many themes compared to the sector
  average across all subjects (Figure 3). Overall rates of PGR satisfaction were consistently
  high for our PGRs, with female and BAME PGRs reported similar levels of overall
  satisfaction to all (Figure 4).




               Figure 3: PRES data showing sector comparisons across areas




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




         Figure 4: PRES data for overall satisfaction for Clinical Medicine PGR Students


  2.3.3. PGR integration in the research community, outputs, and awards
  PGR students are fully embedded in our research culture, with opportunities to give
  presentations, co-author papers and attend conferences. Each PGR student is aligned to
  a research group and participates in group meetings and journal clubs. They are
  expected to attend Departmental, College and University seminars, and give
  talks/posters at PGR research days, which PIs, post-docs and fellows also attend.

  The quality of our PGR cohort is reflected in the large proportion of our submitted outputs
  that include PhD students as co-authors (34%). Notable examples include: a first
  authorship for Walter, now an Associate Professor, documenting early phase studies of
  BTK inhibitors in mature B-cell malignancies, which has transformed the treatment of CLL
  patients (Walter;Blood 2016;FWCI9.47); first authorship for Singh, now NIHR Fellow,
  showing that women tolerate pressure overload with greater symptoms in aortic stenosis
  (Singh;JACC 2019;FWC10.65). PhD student Nuzhat Ashra was an invited contributor to
  an E-life sciences blog and diversity workshop, convened by the MRC, to identify barriers
  that BAME students face in their careers. All PhD students are expected to present data
  at a major international conference and the success of our students is reflected in a high
  number of national/international awards including: Mensa International Scholarship award
  2017; FindaPhD PhD Student of the year 2019; Frank Ellis medal in radiology 2020; Four
  students selected for the Roche Continents’ programme celebrating 100 top-talented
  students across Europe.

 2.4.    EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
  We are a diverse University embedded within a multi-cultural city. EDI is embedded in the
  University’s Strategic Plan and is central to the vision of our new Vice-Chancellor, Nishan
  Canagarajah (appointed 2019) who has taken on the EDI lead role for the University. A
  University-wide culture of inclusion is outlined in the institutional environment statement
  (section 3.1) and encompasses all aspects of our activity. Of relevance to UoA1 is our
  increased ethnicity-focussed research including the Centre for BME Health, which is
  underpinned by our leadership of the NIHR-ARC for ethnicity, diversity, and


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  inclusivity.

  We have had particular success in promoting the careers of female academics: the
  proportion of female clinical academics has increased across all grades in CLS for both
  clinical and non-clinical staff and we have improved female representation in UoA1
  compared to REF2014 and national benchmarks (Figure 5). This has provided an
  exciting new cohort of female role models at all levels. CLS obtained an Athena SWAN
  Silver award in 2019.




   Figure 5: Changes in the proportion of female academic staff in CLS between 2014 and
                       2020. (*Medical Schools Council data 2018).


  We have supported successful external schemes to promote the return of women to
  academia, including five Daphne Jackson Fellows since 2013 (two progressing to new
  positions in CLS and Oxford University). In addition, we are delighted to have supported
  the appointment of more staff reporting as BAME across CLS and report significant
  enhancement in BAME representation in UoA1 (28%) compared to REF2014 (19%)
  and national benchmarks (16%).

  Key to this success has been the introduction of several new practices and procedures.
  Since 2015, we have ensured fairness and transparency in recruitment and funding
  decisions by: explicitly stating that applications from under-represented groups are
  encouraged, engaging search consultants to target specific groups, mandating shortlists
  that comprise both men and women; and including female, male and BAME informal
  contacts for job adverts. We include our EDI credentials, logos and a clear statement of
  inclusivity on job adverts, and our webpages feature our diverse staff and student body.
  We advertise for part-time, flexible and job-share working options wherever possible and
  hold all interviews in core hours. We have ensured gender and BAME representation on all
  shortlist/interview teams and all staff conducting interviews have mandatory Recruitment
  and Selection, EDI and unconscious bias training. Reasonable adjustments are made for
  circumstances impacting on a candidate’s contribution, e.g., disability, maternity/caring
  leave, part-time working, and workload models are adjusted to take account of fractional
  contracts. There are Diversity Champions in every department. Leadership Training has
  been a strategic area of development, with training increasing in both the number of places
  and career stage. For example, 10 members of our Unit (3 female) took part in our Future
  Leaders Programme.


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Departments have funded Aurora Training places and three of our Aurora alumni ran a
  popular ‘Women in Leadership’ event series for CLS in 2016. We have initiated, enhanced,
  and embedded strategies to recruit, support, promote and retain women and BAME
  colleagues through a ‘Pathway to Progression’ strategy, developed via a Head of
  Department Project, which comprises a range of interventions for research/academic staff,
  to ensure women and BAME colleagues receive support at critical points. We have
  stepped up mentorship using a ‘Mentor Connect Scheme’ such that ~30% of staff now
  have a mentor and have doubled our pool of mentors to 95 across CLS. The staff BAME
  forum is working with the VC to improve the visibility of BAME staff across all grades and
  areas. This includes actively recruiting BAME staff to senior positions, actively promoting
  existing BAME staff by a combination of training and job, and by being both outward-facing
  and inward-looking in tackling Race inequality. Our EDI Action Plan and REF 5-year
  strategy will continue to invest in and develop these plans as we recognise we have more
  work to do to achieve 50% female staff at all grades and higher BAME representation to
  mirror the student body and national demographic.

  Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  3.1. INCOME
  Our income portfolio is extensive and diverse. Over the REF2021 period, we have been
  awarded a total of £110M with an income of £100M, representing an increase of 25.5%
  compared to REF2014. We have also doubled our income per FTE (£2.2M/FTE). We have
  substantial funding from NIHR, MRC, BHF, CRUK, Wellcome Trust, industry, and other
  organisations to support research, infrastructure, facilities, and externally-funded centres
  (Figure 6), excluding substantial philanthropic donations of £16M.



                              Other,
                              13%                         UKRI, 11%



               Industry,
                 11%

                                                                         NIHR,
                                                                         27%
              EU, 6%




                        UK
                     Charities,
                       32%

                        Figure 6: Proportion of income by funding source



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  One of our key strategic goals has been to deliver transformative outcomes for patients, and
  this has been underpinned by significant funding for investigator-led clinical trials. These are
  extensive, and co-terminus with the NIHR-accredited Leicester CTU, activities in the NHS
  Trust and industrial partnerships. Significant levels of investment in this area are: £5.8M
  CRUK clinical trial award to identify and implement novel cancer prevention strategies
  (Brown/Thomas), £5.2M NIHR funding for the national PHOSP-COVID clinical trial
  (Brightling), £4M British Lung Foundation investment in mesothelioma clinical trials
  (Fennell/Thomas), £2.5M clinical study funded by GSK to examine Mepolizimab efficacy in
  COPD (Brightling), £2.3M NIHR programme grant to study multicomponent cardiovascular
  screening (Bown), £1.7M study funded by Novo Nordisk in obesity to investigate GLP-1 RA
  Larglutide (Davies), and awards in cardiovascular disease totalling £4.72M to examine the
  efficacy of novel interventional agents (Murphy). Leicester is also regarded as an
  international centre for dialysis research as reflected by the award of a recent £2.1M NIHR
  HTA grant (Burton).

  Other research awards cover basic and translational research endeavours funded by
  government and charity with highlights including CRUK programme awards totalling £7.2M
  (Brown, Pritchard, Shaw); £2.04M BHF award (Samani); £2.2M MRC Pathology Node
  award (Brightling); and £1.3M Wellcome Trust award (Tobin). In cardiovascular disease,
  research priorities are funded by numerous programme grants in arrhythmia (£865K; BHF
  Ng GA), cardiac surgery (£1.4M; BHF Murphy), genomics (£2M; MRC Samani), stroke
  (£1.6M; BHF/TSA Robinson), and vascular surgery (£882k; BHF Bown). Other key awards
  include: a £1.8M MRC/NIHR Beat Severe Asthma (Siddiqui), a £1M MRC programme
  award for tuberculosis research (Cooper), multiple NIHR projects including (NHS/UK Space
  Agency Award – P-STEP, £2M Ng A), EXTEND (diabetes self-management, £594k
  Davies), and BREATHE-health data research hub for Respiratory Health (Chief Scientific
  Officer: Tobin).

  Our support for career development (Section 2) has translated into significant successes in
  supporting individuals through NIHR, MRC, Wellcome Trust and BHF fellowships and
  personal awards, including BHF-funded personal chair awards to Samani (£1.75M, until he
  stepped down to take on the role of BHF Medical Director) and Murphy (£1.8M), NIHR
  Research Professor to McCann, NIHR senior investigator awards to Brightling, Davies,
  Robinson and Samani, an MRC Senior Clinical fellowship to Tobin (£1M). An NIHR
  Fellowship to Singh, and Wellcome Trust awards to Haldar (£1.2M) and Tobin (£1.3M).
  The senior fellowship awards to Tobin have allowed him to develop large-scale genomic
  epidemiology approaches to study the natural history of lung function and COPD, which
  form a key strategic priority of this UoA. The George Davies Foundation (£5.2M) provided
  support for a Chair in Vascular Surgery (Sayers [UoA2]) and associated research
  programmes in multi-morbidity in a frail older population with peripheral vascular disease
  and at risk of amputation, while the Mayer Foundation (£3.4M) supports the Mayer Chair in
  Nephrology (PI: Barratt) and associated research programmes in IgA Nephropathy, as well
  as further philanthropic donation of £2M from the Stoneygate Foundation to support our
  wider renal research.

  3.2.   INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

  A major aim of the strategic objectives in REF2014 was to establish an NIHR BRC, and this
  was successfully achieved in 2016 (Director: Davies, £11.6M) incorporating Cardiovascular,


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Respiratory and Lifestyle themes (formerly, BRUs). Investigators working within the
  Cardiovascular and Respiratory research themes of the BRC are co-located on the
  refurbished Glenfield Hospital site, which has been ranked 29 th in the World (3rd in the UK
  behind the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and the Wellcome Trust) in the 2018 Times
  Higher Education League Table, based on Field Weighted Citation Impact (3.33) and
  Number of Publications (823).


  The Cardiovascular Department benefited from a significant infrastructure investment of
  £12.3M comprising a BHF award of £3M, by £7.6M from UoL and £2M philanthropic
  donations, to establish the Cardiovascular Research Centre (Samani), supplemented by key
  philanthropic donations including £7M from the Van Geest Foundation to establish the Van
  Geest Multi-Omics Facility (Ng L, Suzuki and Jones [UoA5]), which has leveraged an
  additional £2M industrial income, and £2M of additional institutional support. The
  cardiovascular imaging research group (McCann, Arnold, Singh) has accumulated
  significant external infrastructure awards including £2.2M from the NIHR and £1M from the
  BHF. Other infrastructure awards include: £1M BHF Research Accelerator Award (Murphy);
  £150k MRC award as part of the UK consortium Metabolic Phenotyping (Suzuki).

  In Respiratory Disease, there is a 2500m2 dedicated respiratory research facility with
  immunohistology, cytology and cell culture laboratories. During this REF period, advanced
  flow cytometry and cell sorting capabilities have been established, funded by a Wellcome
  Trust Multi-user equipment award (£300k plus £150k University Funds; Cousins and
  Cowley [UoA5]). We have an advanced microscopy facility (IES, 4.2) and run the largest
  airway inflammatory service in the world analysing >2000 sputum slides per year and
  hosting the national £2.2M MRC/EPSRC Breathomics Centre (EMBER). The laboratories
  are ISO9001-accredited and have acted as a central laboratory for over 30 clinical studies.
  This facility is co-located with the clinical respiratory service, based at Glenfield Hospital,
  which serves a local population of 1 million, and a tertiary respiratory population of 3 million,
  and provides the largest bed-base with the greatest number of acute respiratory admissions
  to a single UK site. There is also an aerobiology laboratory, studying the role of fungi in
  respiratory disease, which is well connected to core facilities on the main University
  campus. These facilities and capabilities were funded by NIHR, Wellcome and EDRF with
  University and NHS matched support totalling ~£8M.

  The Diabetes Research Centre is located at the Leicester General Hospital in 4500m 2
  refurbished research space (£2M) housed directly above the busy diabetes outpatients
  service with a dedicated metabolic and physical activity laboratory (also returned to UoA24).
  The DRC hosts core and associated research infrastructure, including ~150 staff: the NIHR
  Leicester BRC Lifestyle theme, the East Midlands ARC, the Centre for BME Health, and the
  Real World Evidence Unit.

  The £42M George Davies Centre (IES, 4.2), completed in 2016, and the UK’s largest non-
  residential Passivhaus building, has provided a new hub for the Medical School and non-
  laboratory-based clinical and non-clinical researchers. Investment in bioinformatics and
  biostatistics has been key to support our transformative research and it is delivered through
  the Bioinformatics and Biostatistics Support hub (BBASH), now part of a higher-level
  alliance BINERI (Biomedical Informatics Network for Education, Research, and Industry)
  which unifies training, big data analysis, biobanking, ethics, governance, and information


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  technology. Leicester became the Midlands Substantive Site for the Health Data Research
  UK institute and access to high-performance computing remains free for all staff and
  students.

  In cancer, UHL delivers all cancer care centrally providing speciality services to a population
  of 3 million. Through partnership with UHL, we have generated and sustained a critical
  mass of infrastructure providing the capability to perform all phases of studies including first-
  in-human, delivered through the Hope Against Cancer-sponsored CTF (Thomas). Since
  2012, this facility has accounted for ~44% of commercial income to UHL; translating to
  £12.4M in commercial income and £4.7M in cost savings to the NHS in the last 5 years. We
  have an exceptional track record of delivering clinical trials as exemplified by the number of
  companies that use us as a preferred partner (e.g., Novartis), and working with 64
  companies in 46 disease areas over the last 5 years. A strategic priority from REF2014 was
  to grow the facility, which was achieved through additional £1.5M investment from the local
  Hope Against Cancer charity, allowing the CTF to be extended in 2020. We are a member
  of a network of 17 national CRUK-NIHR ECMCs (£1.3M, Thomas, Brown) and host the
  Ernest and Helen Scott Haematological Research Institute (Dyer), established with £950k in
  philanthropic donations from the Scott Waudby Trust. The Leicester Molecular Diagnostics
  Facility (Shaw) has secured >£500k investment combined with ISO15189 accreditation, a
  critical step in the delivery of clinically relevant molecular tests including cfDNA profiling, for
  the NHS, private healthcare and pharma. Since 2016, the Patient-Derived Explant (PDE)
  Facility has attracted >£2M from LifeArc, CRUK, Breast Cancer Now and commercial
  partners (Pfizer, Pierre Fabre) for drug development projects (Pritchard). Ongoing
  therapeutic programmes are facilitated by a £1.6M CRUK network accelerator award,
  exploiting the structure-guided expertise of UoA5 researchers (Pritchard with Carr [UoA5]).

  3.3. INTERFACE WITH NHS
  A major strategic goal from REF2014 was to strengthen the partnership with local NHS
  organisations, which has been successfully achieved through establishing the LAHP. The
  LAHP is chaired in rotation by the UoL President/Vice-Chancellor, and Chairs of UHL, and
  LPT. The LAHP Board includes the LAHP Director (Brunskill; also, the UoL/UHL Dean of
  Clinical Research), the Head of College, Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, the UoL PVC
  for Research and Enterprise, the Trusts’ Chief Executives, Medical Directors and Directors
  of Strategy, and the Chief Executive of the East Midlands Academic Health Science
  Network. The LAHP ensures appropriate deployment of financial, estate and human
  resource to implement the agreed joint strategic objectives in relation to research and
  enterprise, and education and training.

  There are many other examples of significant collaboration with the NHS, including key
  NIHR infrastructure projects such as the BRC, ARC (previously CLAHRC), CRF, CRN,
  ECMC and most recently the hosting one of five UK NIHR patient recruitment centres, plus
  the honorary appointments process. The success of our partnership is further
  demonstrated by UHL consistently ranking in the top 15 Trusts recruiting patients and
  conducting trials (OPD data).

  The Head of College and the Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs sit as Non-Executive
  Directors on the UHL and LPT NHS Trust Boards, respectively. Finally, the University has
  a close relationship with its Associate Teaching Hospitals, where medical students
  undertake placements, including Northampton General Hospital NHS Trust (Deputy Head
  of College is Non-Executive Director) and Kettering General Hospital NHS Foundation

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Trust. Apart from the leveraging of externally-funded infrastructure mentioned above, this
  integration has enabled us to host an NIHR-CRF (Director: Brunskill); the NIHR-CRN: East
  Midlands (Director: Rowbotham); the NIHR Research Design Service (Director: Williams).

  3.4. INTERFACE WITH INDUSTRY
  Interaction with industry is critical for successful translation of research and has been a
  particular feature of this REF cycle with strong support from the University. Increased Higher
  Education Innovation Funding (HEIF) funding over the REF period has supported a range of
  knowledge exchange activities, and pump-priming of specific areas with the highest impact
  potential. The University HEIF-funded Proof of Concept scheme for technology maturation
  and commercialisation routes for intellectual property has provided £195k to UoA1
  researchers and provided opportunities for increasing our IP portfolio as exemplified by the
  Lithocatheter and PAL-VAD devices (see section 1.2.1.2). The Leicester Innovation Hub
  (IES, 2.5) is a £5.1M programme supported by HEIF funding, the University and
  the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). This Hub is the ‘front door’ to launching
  great ideas and it provides a dedicated incubation and innovation space, making it easier for
  companies to utilise innovation support, expertise, and facilities. The Leicester Life
  Sciences Accelerator (LLSA) (academic lead, Suzuki) is funded by a £750k ERDF grant
  (with equal match from UoL) and delivered in partnership with the Midlands Engine,
  designed to drive Life Science SME growth within the Leicestershire region. It delivers
  unique innovation support to SMEs, linking them with the clinical/academic environment at
  the University of Leicester and the BRC to accelerate product development. A recent
  example is the development of the self-screening kiosks to detect COVID19 in the
  workplace in collaboration with Elephant Kiosks Ltd.

  In this REF cycle, >£6M pump-priming investment from the University and MRC,
  administered through the LPMI, has progressed 56 translational research projects towards
  the clinic. The MRC funded Proximity to Discovery (P2D; £133k) scheme enables visits and
  initial interactions between academic and industrial partners for knowledge exchange and
  development of collaborative projects. The MRC Confidence in Concept (CiC; annual
  awards totalling £1.9M) scheme has been used to initiate academic and industry
  collaborative projects, and to support translational research development and product
  development. For example, McCann received an award to develop an industrial partnership
  with Resonance Health Ltd, which led to collaborative industrial research (including in-kind
  funding from the industry partner), a £1.9M NIHR Research Professorship award, and two
  BHF Clinical Training fellowships. Cousins received an award to develop flow cytometric
  biomarkers of Type 2 inflammation, which has resulted in collaborative industrial projects
  with AnaptysBio (£325k) and Genentech (£1.3M). Overall, the return on investment of MRC
  CiC funding to date has been 11:1. Further evidence of our success in supporting
  commercialisation of our research is reflected in the success of our spinout companies, with
  a major highlight being Haemostatix Ltd which was established in 2003 and sold in 2016 to
  Ergomed PLC following a successful phase 1 clinical trial of its lead product, a topical
  haemostat to prevent post-surgical bleeding.

  We have taken active steps to encourage investigators to work with industry and to attract
  industrial partners. Key to this has been:

        Creation of the Research and Enterprise Division, and appointment of personnel to
         support and develop industrial links including a dedicated commercialisation team.


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Appointment of six Business development managers specific to the College of Life
          Sciences who provide advice on all aspects of opportunities.
         All staff are offered training in commercialisation. Examples include IP and
          Commercialisation Workshops, and PhD student residential training courses both
          organised by LPMI using P2D funding.

  Our commitment to increased working with industry is reflected in the securing of substantial
  industry-linked income of £65M during this REF cycle, a near 20-fold increase on REF2014
  and 20 patents have been filed by our researchers - a 5-fold increase since 2014. This UoA
  works with a wide range of industrial partners with notable examples including:

         The Respiratory Genomic Collaboration led by Tobin undertakes Genome Wide
          Association Studies (GWAS) to discover novel loci affecting lung function and
          Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disorder (COPD) and separate novel loci for
          smoking behaviour (smoking initiation, amount smoked and smoking cessation).
          Ongoing studies include collaborations totalling ~£2M with pharmaceutical
          companies (GSK, Pfizer, Regeneron, Biogen).
         A GSK Discovery Partnership with Academia totalling £9M awarded to
          haematology researchers Dyer, Walter, and emeritus professor Simon Wagner,
          aimed at developing and testing BCL6 inhibitors for Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma.
         A collaboration with AstraZeneca on the CHINOOK study totalling £1.8M to evaluate
          the effect of Benralizumab on airway structure and lung function (Brightling).
         Many other industrial collaborations to deliver clinical studies in respiratory disease
          including £3M investment from GSK (Brightling) and £2M investment from
          Genentech (Brightling, Cousins).
         A £1.7M investment from Novo Nordisk (Davies with Khunti [UoA2]) for the Cities
          Changing Diabetes programme to innovate innovative approaches in the prevention
          and management of T2D.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. COLLABORATION, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 UoA1 PIs make a substantial contribution to national and international research through their
 leadership and membership of academic collaborations, partnerships, and networks. In addition,
 our PIs have a strong commitment to industrial collaboration and partnerships, and we have
 benefited from industrial investment of £65M during this REF cycle (see Section 3.4).

 4.2. CONTRIBUTION TO RESEARCH
 The breadth of our collaborative success is evidenced by the fact that the majority of UoA1
 senior PIs (24/35) lead and participate in at least 60 national and international networks and
 consortia. Our academic staff lead and contribute to national and international panels, including
 of clinical guidelines resulting in patient, societal and economic benefit (see Section 4.2.1) and
 through our leadership of implementation research with the successive award of an NIHR-
 CLAHRC, and an NIHR-ARC. Our staff also contribute to the advancement of clinical sciences
 at the highest level by participation in international and national funding panels (see Section
 4.2.1), through journal Editorial Board Chair and membership positions (see Section 4.2.2), and
 the leadership and organisation of international and national conferences (see Section 4.2.3).
 Importantly, our research is focused on the delivery of transformative patient outcomes, and


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 therefore we have exemplars of patient, carer and public participation and collaborative
 leadership in our research agenda (see Section 4.2.4).

 The impact of our contributions has been recognized through a number of prestigious awards
 and fellowships. These include a Knighthood for Services to Medicine and Medical Research
 (Samani 2015), a CBE for services to Diabetes Research (Davies 2016) and MBE for
 contributions to Forensic Pathology (Rutty 2012). We host five Fellows of the Academy of
 Medical Sciences (Baker, Brightling, Davies, Samani, Tobin), four NIHR Senior Investigators
 (Brightling, Davies, Robinson, Samani), an NIHR Research Professor (McCann) and two
 BHF Chairs (Murphy, Samani).

 We encourage a culture of success in our ECRs, and this is evidenced by our Fellowship
 successes (see Sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.2). Additionally, we have a track record of ECR
 recognition through conference awards, and for the importance and relevance of their research
 to patients and society. For example, Roman won a European Society of Organ Transplant
 Travel Grant for Outstanding Quality of Abstract (2014); Singh was awarded a Young
 Investigator Award by the British Heart Valve Society (2015) and an Early Career Clinical Award
 by the Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance (2016); Moss secured the Jeremy
 Wright best oral presentation prize at British and Irish Association of Robotic Gynaecological
 Surgeons (2015); Walter won the Royal College of Physicians and NIHR Trainee Award for
 contribution to research (2017); Minhas was awarded the Royal College of Physicians
 Quincentennial Lecturer Award (2018); and Graham-Brown was the keynote speaker at the
 Royal College of Physicians Trainees Symposium (2019) and winner of the Raine Award at the
 UK Renal Association (2020).

 4.2.1. Membership of International and National Panels
 Our staff contribute to the advancement of clinical sciences at the highest level by participation
 in advisory boards, committees, and influential policy committees both UK-based and abroad.
 An exemplar contribution from each of our major research themes is provided:

       In cardiovascular sciences, Professor Sir Nilesh Samani is the BHF Medical
        Director, and Vice-Chair of Main Panel A for REF2021. He is a Fellow of the Academy
        of Medical Sciences and Emeritus NIHR Senior Investigator. He is recipient of
        numerous prestigious accolades and awards including most recently the MacKenzie
        Medal of the British Cardiovascular Society 2020. He co-chaired the Genetics section
        of the 2019 Topol Review ‘Preparing the healthcare workforce to deliver the Digital
        Future’. He is named in the Top 40 of the GG2 101 most influential Asians (2020).
       In Respiratory Sciences, Professor Chris Brightling is a Fellow of the Academy of
        Medical Sciences and NIHR Senior Investigator. He is Coordinator for several national
        and international research consortia. He was founding Director of the European
        Respiratory Society Clinical Research Collaborations and is the current European
        Respiratory Society Science Council Chair. He is a member of the American College
        of Chest Physicians’ Cough Guidelines, the British Thoracic Society, American
        Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society Severe Asthma Guidelines and is on
        the scientific committee for the Global INitiative for Asthma - GINA. He has been
        invited as a visiting chair and to receive awards from the Universities of British
        Colombia and McMaster (Canada), University of California San Francisco and
        Harvard (USA).
       In Cancer Research, Professor Anne Thomas is a Clinical Specialist member of


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        NICE, member of the NCRI Upper GI and colorectal Clinical Study Groups of the
        NCRI, member of the MRC Trials Unit Steering Committee and member of the CRUK
        New Agents Committee. She is Chief Investigator on national studies including CRUK
        (CTACC) Astra Zeneca/NCRI Collaboration Initiative and leads major clinical trials in
        cancer prevention, as reflected by the award from CRUK of the £5.9M multi-centre
        COLOPREVENT study.
       In Diabetes and Lifestyle, Professor Melanie Davies, CBE, is a Fellow of the
        Academy of Medical Sciences and Emeritus NIHR Senior Investigator. She was Chair
        of the NIHR-BRC Directors’ Forum (2017 to 2018) and has multiple influential roles
        including Scientific advisor to NICE and Chair of the EASD Writing Group, which
        provides EASD guidelines on the management of hyperglycaemia in type 2 diabetes.
        Davies has had a global impact on the management of diabetes recognised by being
        ranked 1st in the Expertscape list of global diabetes experts (based on publications
        since 2010) and chairing international guidelines for T2DM management (Diabetes
        Care and Diabetologia 2018 and 2019).

 Several of our staff sit on international and national guideline panels and advisory boards. These
 include acting as Chair of: the Vascular Society Aortic Special Interest Group (Bown), the
 Chinese International Trauma Rescue & Treatment Association (Coats), the ESC-ACCA
 Spontaneous Coronary Artery Dissection Study Group and ESC-EORP SCAD Registry (Adlam),
 the UK National Post Mortem Radiology Imaging Board (Rutty), the Scientific Advisory Board of
 the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Clinical Forensic Imaging (Rutty), the Academic and
 Research Committee Society for Cardiothoracic Surgery (Murphy), the NIHR/NOCRI National
 Strategy Group for Asthma (Siddiqui), the Exercise and Lifestyle Clinical Strategy Group for the
 UK Kidney Research Consortium and the UK Renal Association Chronic Kidney Disease-
 Mineral Bone Disease (CKD-MBD) Guideline Group (both Burton). Many of our researchers are
 also advisers for NICE, playing a major role in developing new guidelines including: Scientific
 advisor for NICE Single Technology Appraisal for Sotagliflozin (Davies), Clinical Specialist to
 NICE on behalf of RCP/NCRI/RCR/ACP/JCCO on three Single Technology Appraisals and
 scientific input on three further projects in Gastric Adenocarcinoma (Thomas), and Vice-Chair of
 a Technology Appraisal Committee (Squire).

 Our clinical trainees and ECRs are also encouraged to secure external national and international
 leadership positions, with prominent roles including: Saratzis participation on the NIHR HTA
 Clinical Evaluation and Trials Board and National Lead for Vascular and Endovascular Research
 Network); Gonem (NIHR HTA Reviewer Development Scheme); Gokani (President Association
 of Surgeons in Training); Walter (Chair of the Junior Investigators Network for the ECMCs);
 Russell (American College of Chest Physicians Expert Cough Panel).

 4.2.2. Peer Review and Journal Editorships
 Staff contribute to the advancement of clinical sciences at the highest level by participation in
 funding panels, both UK-based and abroad. In addition to Samani’s role as BHF Medical
 Director, three UoA1 researchers are Panel Chairs for NIHR Senior Investigator (Davies), MRC
 (Cooper) and European Respiratory Society (Brightling) awards. During this REF period, UoA1
 researchers have been members of 44 funding panels including 6 for NIHR, 4 for BHF, 6 for
 CRUK, 3 for the MRC, 2 for Kidney Research UK, 2 for Breast Cancer Now, 1 for BLF/Asthma
 UK, and 9 international panels (including NIH and CIHR). We also participated in 10
 quinquennial reviews. 85% of our returned staff participated in peer review for international
 funding bodies and all are involved in peer review for journals. Staff returned under this UoA


                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 comprise 5 international journal editors/deputy editors, 14 associate editors, and 23 editorial
 board members.

 4.2.3. Conferences and Meetings.
 Our researchers organised 13 international conferences, 39 one-day meetings and 7 workshops.
 High profile international conferences include: the 7 th International Mast Cell and Basophil
 Meeting (2015, co-organised by Bradding), the International Mesothelioma Interest Group
 biennial meeting (2016, chaired by IMIG President Fennell), the British Society for Immunology
 Summer school (2017, hosted and organised by Cousins), the 15th International Symposium on
 IgA nephropathy (2018, co-organised by Barrett), the Society for Cardiothoracic Surgery
 National Research meeting (2019, organised by Murphy), and the British Gynaecological
 Cancer Society meeting on endometrial cancer follow-up (2020, organised by Moss).

 4.2.4. Patient, Carer, and Public Involvement and Engagement
 Patient, carer and public involvement and engagement (PCPIE) has been fundamental to our
 ability to deliver first class research in clinical medicine, to ensure our research is relevant to
 patients, carers and public, and results in improvement in health outcomes This links also to our
 expertise in implementation of healthcare delivery with UoA2 colleagues and exemplified by our
 significant contribution to the NIHR-CRN. During the current REF period, our Principal
 Investigators have led 139 CRN portfolio trials and recruited nearly 75,000 patients to the NIHR
 CRN portfolio studies. This success was instrumental in the award of our NIHR-CRF (in 2016)
 and most recently in the award in 2020 of one of only five NIHR Patient Recruitment Centres.

 Leicester is one of the most ethnically diverse cities in the UK and is uniquely placed to conduct
 research on issues affecting the health and wellbeing of ethnic and migrant communities. The
 Centre for BME Health works with patients, the public, community and voluntary sectors,
 researchers, and health and social organisations to address the health inequalities in health care
 access and health outcomes. The Centre has a number of community-based research staff who
 engage with seldom heard communities and inspire community-led research. We design and
 deliver resources and alternative methodologies that are informed and led by communities who
 are hard to reach by some clinicians and researchers. This allows us to produce and promote
 culturally-sensitive resources and raise awareness of the importance of community engagement
 and collaboration across research and healthcare delivery. We also deliver research with BME
 groups, host a BME Community Partners’ Panels, provide BME Engagement and competency
 training and collaborate with researchers, universities, and organisations, including NIHR where
 we have partnered to support the response to covid-19
 (https://bepartofresearch.nihr.ac.uk/COVID-19-Research/COVID-19-for-BAME-communities/).

 Other examples of our engagement include: hosting of the James Lind Alliance Priority Setting
 Partnership that has allowed clinicians, patients and carers to work together to identify and
 prioritise uncertainties in Aortic Disease (Murphy); our ‘Cities Changing Diabetes initiative’ has
 involved Faith Centres, Schools and the Council with the first Global City Sporting Pledge signed
 by the City Mayor all 4 Elite sports clubs (Leicester City Football, Leicester Tigers, Leicester
 Riders and the County Cricket Club) and the Diabetes Centre to work together across the city of
 Leicester to reduce diabetes; and our local Hope Against Cancer charity facilitates access to
 local communities, organisations and businesses, allowing researchers and patients tell their
 stories, and to stimulate local corporate social responsibility.




                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Overall, our multi-disciplinary research centred on the health challenges of common diseases
 affecting the UK population has helped deliver transformative outcomes for patients. This is
 exemplified in our bench (see UoA5), clinical (this UoA), and public health implementation (see
 UoA2) research streams. Importantly, this is underpinned by integrated high quality training, and
 a strong commitment to equality and diversity that reflects the multi-cultural diversity of our
 patient groups and local stakeholders.




                                                                                           Page 24
