Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Imperial College

 Unit of Assessment: 02 Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1a. Unit Context and Structure

 Research in UoA2 at Imperial College London predominantly takes place within the School of
 Public Health (SPH), established in 2010. SPH is located within the Faculty of Medicine (FoM),
 forming one of eight departments. Our aim is to achieve better health in the population through
 strengthening the public health science base, training the next generation of public health leaders,
 and influencing health policies and programmes locally, nationally and internationally. Our success
 in REF2014 has catalysed significant growth through strategic investment in people, growing our
 FTE from 54.6 in REF2014 to 79.5 in REF2021, with research income of £282m since 2014 (£506k
 per FTE/yr). Targeted strategic fundraising has secured £57m to support establishment of new
 endowed Chairs (Mohn Chair in Population Child Health, Toledano, and the Battcock Chair in
 Community Health and Policy, Kelly [UoA14]) and to build a new home for public health research
 on our White City Campus. Within the REF period, two major research groups transferred to SPH:
 the Environmental Research Group (15.3 FTE returned in UoA14), led by Kelly, from King’s
 College London (KCL), and The George Institute for Global Health UK, led by MacMahon and
 Norton, from the University of Oxford. Our move to the heart of the new White City campus,
 adjacent to Hammersmith Hospital, will enhance our interdisciplinary research mission through
 co-location with fundamental health researchers, engineers, and physical scientists.

 SPH houses three broad research groups - infectious disease epidemiology, chronic disease
 epidemiology and clinical trials and evaluation (including primary care and public health). It
 incorporates two MRC Centres (Global Infectious Disease Analysis, and Environment and Health,
 both exceptionally renewed for a third term), three National Institute of Health Research (NIHR)
 Health Protection Research Units (HPRUs: Chemical and Radiation Threats and Hazards,
 Environmental Exposures and Health, Modelling and Health Economics) jointly with Public Health
 England (PHE), our UKCRC-accredited Imperial Clinical Trials Unit (ICTU), Environmental
 Research Group, The George Institute for Global Health UK, Dr Foster Intelligence Unit, UK Small
 Area Health Statistics Unit (SAHSU), NIHR School for Public Health Research at Imperial, NIHR
 Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) Northwest London, UK Medical Bioinformatics Partnership
 programme (UK MED-BIO), Mohn Centre for Children’s Health and Wellbeing and Abdul Latif
 Jameel Institute for Disease and Disease Emergency Analytics (J-IDEA).

 People are our greatest asset and extensive procedures are in place to ensure equality and
 diversity in the recruitment and support of staff and research students, and in staff retention and
 promotion (Section 2). We aim to foster a vibrant and inclusive research culture where a diverse
 range of opinions are encouraged. We support individuals for internal promotions based on a
 transparent and equitable process, and recruit externally, to maintain research excellence in an
 environment where people feel appreciated and valued. Gender is 39% female compared to 33%
 in REF2014. Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) group representation has increased (19% vs 5% in
 REF2014). Thirty-eight academic staff have been recruited (34% female) and a further 32
 promoted (14 female) including 11 to professor.

 We foster a sustainable environment based on recruitment of talented early career researchers
 (ECRs) and junior fellows and a growing research student base. During the REF period we
 appointed 21 ECRs and trained 127 PhD students. We have well-developed succession plans in
 place for senior staff and a growing supply of highly qualified and skilled staff eligible for
 appointment to senior roles.

 A key element of our mission is to enable the rapid translation of our research into public health
 policy. To support local policy adoption, we work within the Imperial College Academic Health
 Science Centre (AHSC), formally re-designated in 2020 and nested within the Academic Health

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sciences Network (AHSN). Our NIHR HPRUs with PHE support national decision-making; and
 internationally our range of global academic and public health partnerships include hosting three
 World Health Organisation (WHO) Collaborating Centres. We actively promote public involvement
 in our research through our Patient Experience Research Centre (PERC, Director, Ward) and our
 NIHR ARC (Director, Majeed).

 In late 2019, through philanthropic funding, we established J-IDEA, bringing together researchers
 across the three UoA themes to improve the response to emerging disease threats. Our cross-
 disciplinary approach has been evident in the prominent role that researchers across SPH have
 played in supporting the UK and worldwide response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Examples
 include:
 • Establishment of the REal-Time Assessment of Community Transmission (REACT) study of
      SARS-CoV-2 infection in the community - a partnership between Imperial College London and
      Ipsos MORI involving researchers across all three UoA themes and laboratory and clinical
      investigators in UoA1 (Barclay, Cooke, Darzi).
 • Development of statistical methods to support tracking of the disease in the UK, Europe and
      New York State (at the request of Governor Cuomo) undertaken as a partnership between
      SPH and the Department of Mathematics.
 • Research supporting hospital capacity and the economic response in collaboration with the
      Business School.
 Through PERC, community involvement was garnered throughout our COVID-19 response
 including the “Let’s Talk About COVID-19” public engagement campaign to bring the public and
 researchers together to share stories, insights and experiences of the pandemic (section 4d).

 1b. Research Strategy
 Our research falls under three broad areas, through which we undertake inter-disciplinary
 research with high translational impact. All groupings have a strong focus in training the next
 generation of researchers with established Masters and PhD training programmes and
 development opportunities for ECRs (italicised below).

 A. Infectious Disease Epidemiology

 Number of highly cited outputs: 24 outputs over 100 citations, 8 outputs over 250 citations, 5
 outputs over 500 citations, 2 outputs over 750 citations, 1 output with over 1000 citations.
 Key Centres: MRC Centre in Global Infectious Disease Analysis (MRC GIDA), NIHR HPRU in
 Modelling and Economics (in partnership with London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine
 [LSHTM] and PHE), Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMFG)-Gavi funded Vaccine Impact
 Modelling Consortium, WHO Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Modelling, WHO
 Collaborating Institute on Polio Data Analysis and Modelling, J-IDEA
 Research volume since 2014 (pro rata): £108m
 Web of Science Highly-Cited Researchers (2014-2020): Bhatt, Ferguson, Jombart
 Number of ECRs: 8 – Blake, Gaythorpe, Jauneikaite, Lees, Nayagam, Sicuri, Turner, Winskill

 Our strategy - “to provide an international resource and centre of excellence for research for the
 epidemiological and modelling of infectious diseases” - is aligned with the goals of MRC GIDA.
 Research spans ten disease areas (Zoonoses and Animal Diseases; HIV, STIs and Hepatitis;
 Malaria; Tuberculosis; Influenza; Arboviruses; Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs); Enteric
 Infections; Bacterial Pathogens; Fungal Pathogens) within five inter-disciplinary cross-cutting
 themes (Outbreak Analysis and Modelling, Global Health Analytics, Vaccines, Antimicrobial
 Resistance, and Methods and Tools). We work across multiple disease areas and cross-cutting
 themes, resulting in a highly collaborative internal research environment and a coherent and highly
 visible external profile.

 Major funders include MRC and other research councils (BBSRC and NERC), BMGF, US National
 Institutes for Health (NIH), NIHR and Wellcome Trust. The translational impact of our research is
 strengthened through our formal collaborative partnerships with the WHO, PHE, the Global Fund
 and Gavi (the Vaccine Alliance).

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Key research achievements since 2014 include:
 • Real-time analysis and modelling support for the COVID-19 pandemic (Lancet Infect Dis 2020;
    Nature 2020; Science 2020 [2]) (see impact case study MED2-04).
 • Support for the global response to outbreaks, including the West Africa and Democratic
    Republic of the Congo Ebola outbreaks, the Zika pandemic in Latin America and MERS (NEJM
    2014; Lancet 2014; Science 2016).
 • Expanded global health portfolio providing underpinning research to inform global strategies
    (via WHO, the Global Fund, Gavi) and new interventions for HIV, Hepatitis, TB, malaria (see
    impact case study, MED2-01) and NTDs (Lancet 2014, 2015, 2019).
 • Research on immunisation strategies to minimise vaccine-derived poliovirus emergence
    directly supporting the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (NEJM 2018; Science 2014, 2018,
    2020).
 • Development of analytical tools to exploit genetic data and gain fundamental insight into
    disease transmission and bacterial pathogen evolution (PLoS Biol 2016; Cell 2020).
 Progress against the aims set out in the REF2014 submission:
 • Strengthened research collaborations with national agencies including PHE in the UK through
    the NIHR HPRU in Modelling and Health Economics, partnership with the Public Health
    Foundation of India and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and with China CDC.
    Established new collaborations involving national public health agencies in Malawi and
    Colombia.
 • Enhanced capacity in integrated genetic and epidemiological analysis through the
    appointment of Croucher (Senior Lecturer) and Faria (Reader) alongside existing staff (Volz).
    Established a health economics group led by Hauck. Advanced biostatistics strengthened by
    the appointment of two new lecturers (Baguelin, Cori).
 • Launched new MRes course to form a 1+3 PhD programme and trained over 60 students
    including eight from low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).
 Over the next 5 years, we will:
 • Continue to lead future pandemic planning and outbreak response (learning from experience
    with COVID-19).
 • Align and integrate approaches for global health planning across diseases to support rational
    resource allocation, develop metrics for progress monitoring and programme evaluation, and
    guide strategic planning at global, regional, national and local levels.
 • Leverage research on vaccines across College to enhance use of modelling to inform product
    development, clinical trial design and implementation.
 • Build formal pipeline to rapidly translate methodological research (phylodynamic inference,
    genomic analysis, machine learning) into openly accessible software and enhance software
    engineering capacity to support user-friendly tools for public health decision-making.
 • Support capacity building in quantitative epidemiology in LMICs through local partnerships and
    training of the next generation of local scientists.


 B. Chronic Disease Epidemiology

 Number of highly cited outputs: 43 outputs over 100 citations, 18 outputs over 250 citations, 6
 outputs over 500 citations, 5 outputs over 750 citations, 3 outputs over 1000 citations.
 Key Centres: MRC Centre for Environment and Health, The George Institute for Global Health
 UK, NIHR HPRUs in Chemical and Radiation Threats and Hazards, and in Environmental
 Exposures and Health, SAHSU, UK MED-BIO (bioinformatics), NIHR Global Health Research
 Unit, NCD Risk Factor Collaboration (NCD-RisC), Mohn Centre for Children’s Health and
 Wellbeing.
 Web of Science Highly-Cited Researchers (2014-2020): Elliott, Ezzati, Jarvelin, Prokopenko,
 Riboli, Vineis, Woodward
 Research volume since 2014 (pro rata): £93.3m
 Number of ECRs: 8 – Ahmadi Abhari, Chan D, Kaforou, Lill, Lucas, Muller, Vuckovic, Zuber

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We undertake leading cross-disciplinary research to advance understanding of the distribution,
 causes and effects of the major chronic diseases and thereby influence policy for improving health.
 We hold major funding from MRC, NIHR, Wellcome Trust, Department of Health and Social Care
 (DHSC), European Union, and NIH. Key areas include: aetiological studies, notably on
 cardiovascular disease (and its risk factors), type-2 diabetes and cancers; application of genomics
 and other ‘omic technologies to understanding disease causation and pathogenesis;
 environmental epidemiology; analysis of international trends in chronic disease and risk factors;
 and methods development. We established and lead NCD-RisC, the world’s largest collection of
 population-representative health data, working closely with WHO (Ezzati) and lead the World
 Cancer Research Fund International Continuous Update Project (Chan D, Tsilidis). We lead major
 cohort studies including REACT (DHSC-funded), the 500,000 person EPIC study (Riboli), the
 international COSMOS study (mobile phones and health), MRC-funded Airwave Health Monitoring
 Study (police cohort) and SCAMP (adolescents), the multi-country INTERSALT and INTERMAP
 studies (NIH), Northern Finland Birth Cohorts 1966 and 1986, LOLIPOP and the South Asian
 Biobank (£5m Wellcome Trust and NIHR Global Health Research Unit [£9.2m, Director,
 Chambers]).

 Key research achievements since 2014 include discovery of:
 • Novel genetic variants and epigenetic signatures associated with multiple traits and diseases
    (Nature 2014, 2017, 2020; Nature Genetics 2014, 2015 [2], 2017, 2018, 2019; Cell 2018, 2020
    [2]; Science 2019; JAMA 2018).
 • Population genomic variation in Africa, Australia and New Guinea, transcriptomic signatures
    of infection and mutational signatures of smoking (NEJM 2014; JAMA 2016; Nature 2015,
    2016; Science 2016, 2017; Cell 2019).
 • Efficacy of blood pressure lowering by cardiovascular disease risk and in type-2 diabetes,
    thrombolytic therapy in acute stroke and evaluation of risk scores for coronary artery disease
    and kidney failure (JAMA 2016, 2020; Lancet 2014, NEJM 2014, 2016).
 • Trends in adiposity and diabetes worldwide, diabetes-related complications and mortality
    (Lancet 2014, 2016 [2], 2017, 2018; NEJM 2014; JAMA 2014).
 • Inequalities in accessibility to cities and effects of socioeconomic status, risk factor reduction,
    temperature and air and noise pollution on mortality (Nat Climate Change 2014; Lancet 2014,
    2017; NEJM 2019; Nature 2018 and see impact case study, MED2-05).

 Our progress against the aims set out in the REF2014 submission:
 • Further consolidated our leading position in environment and health research through re-
    funding of the MRC Centre for Environment and Health (Director, Elliott) and the NIHR HPRU
    in Environmental Exposures and Health (formerly HPRU in Environmental Threats and
    Hazards, Director Kelly [UoA14]) and the move of the HPRU in Chemical and Radiation
    Threats and Hazards (Director, Elliott) to Imperial.
 • Developed and expanded our portfolio of cohorts to include the REACT programme (see
    impact case study, MED2-04) and the South Asia Biobank.
 • Expanded our successful PhD programme, bringing together training in the MRC Centre and
    the two HPRUs into one jointly run programme. Established a successful new Masters
    programme in Health Data Analytics and Machine Learning, now in its third year (42 students).

 Over the next 5 years, we will:
 • Further develop our strengths in environment and health building on the MRC Centre and two
    associated HPRUs.
 • Integrate further with The George Institute for Global Health UK, including development of new
    programmes in multimorbidity and women’s health.
 • Strengthen our collaboration with the Dementia Research Institute at Imperial (Director,
    Matthews [UoA4]), where we lead a programme on molecular epidemiology and causal
    inference (Elliott, Dehghan, Zuber).
 • Extend and follow-up our cohorts including through remote and face-to-face contact, and data
    linkage.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Further develop and extend our training programme at both Masters and doctoral levels and
     continue to provide a high-quality training environment to the next generation of researchers
     and research leaders.

 C. Clinical Trials and Evaluation

 Number of highly cited outputs: 25 outputs with over 100 citations, 15 outputs over 250
 citations, 7 outputs over 500 citations, 5 outputs over 750 citations, 3 outputs over 1000 citations
 including 1 with over 2000 citations and 1 with over 3000 citations.
 Key Centres: ICTU, Dr Foster Intelligence Unit, WHO Centre for Public Health Education and
 Training, NIHR ARC Northwest London, NIHR School for Public Health Research at Imperial
 Web of Science Highly-Cited Researchers (2014-2020): Neal, Poulter, Ray
 Research volume since 2014 (pro rata): £80.3m
 Number of ECRs: 5 – Al-Lamee, Laverty, Pinder, Vallejo-Vaz, Vamos
 We aim to be at the forefront of evaluation of the benefits and risks of treatments/interventions,
 through clinical trials, pharmaco-epidemiology and evaluation of health service performance. Our
 research, working with partners in UoA1, reflects the strong history of clinical trial involvement
 across a broad base. Example applications include cardiovascular and metabolic disease (Al-
 Lamee, Greenhalgh [UoA1], Neal, Peters, Poulter, Ray, Rodgers), HIV & Infection (Fidler [UoA1],
 Weber [UoA1]), ageing (Kivipelto), endocrinology (Dhillo [UoA1]) and emergency medicine (Finfer,
 Gordon [UoA1]). The theme also includes the NIHR ARC NW London (Director, Majeed), the
 UKCRC accredited Imperial Clinical Trials Unit (ICTU, Directors, Poulter and Ray); the WHO
 Collaborating Centre for Public Health Education and Training (Director, Rawaf) and the Dr Foster
 Centre for Health Intelligence Research (Director, Aylin).

 Key research achievements since 2014 include:
 • Lead roles in the design and analysis of major trials in cardiovascular and metabolic disease
    (Lancet 2018; NEJM 2016[2], 2017[5], 2019[2]; JAMA 2014, 2015, 2018).
 • Identified genetic associations of variants related to CETP inhibitors, ATP citrate lyase and
    lipoprotein levels, and designed trials of inclisiran, targeting PCSK9 messenger RNA to lower
    LDL cholesterol (NEJM 2017, 2019, 2020[2]; JAMA 2017; see impact case study, MED2-006)
 • Developed major new areas for trials including ageing (Lancet 2015), emergency medicine
    and critical care (NEJM 2016, 2018, 2019, 2020; JAMA 2016, 2020), nephrology (JAMA 2017).
 • Undertook evaluations of real-world data including Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD)
    and NHS administrative data for a diverse range of conditions including antibiotic management
    (BMJ 2016, 2019; Lancet 2014, 2016), obstetric management (BMJ 2015), diabetes (Diabetes
    Care 2015) and health service performance (see impact case study, MED2-02).
 • Systematic reviews of access to treatment for end-stage kidney disease, blood pressure
    lowering on cardiovascular disease risk and evaluation of infection outcomes in Intensive Care
    Units (JAMA 2020; Lancet 2015[2], 2016[2]).

 Our progress against the aims set out in the 2014 submission:
 • Further developed ICTU as a centre of excellence for trials: re-accredited with UKCRC in 2017,
    Ray appointed as Deputy Director and Cornelius as Head of Statistics strengthening links with
    industry and building methodological strength, upgrading clinical data systems (OpenClinica,
    REDCap).
 • Completed a cluster randomised trial of salt substitute and stroke in rural China, with
    publication due in 2021 (Neal, Elliott).
 • Consolidated and expanded our capability in health service performance
    monitoring/evaluation through the Dr Foster Intelligence Unit, the Whole Systems Integrated
    Care (WSIC) database and the Discover-NOW data repository (Health Data Research UK
    Hub).

 Over the next 5 years, we will:



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Develop capacity for digital trials using resources such as the iCARE digital platform in Imperial
     College Healthcare NHS Trust (ICHT), WSIC and Discover-NOW
 •   Undertake cohort studies through primary care (e.g., CHARIOT:PRO) and novel trials of
     lifestyle interventions in dementia.
 •   Build on the strategic recruitment of The George Institute for Global Health UK and their
     expertise in trials design and implementation in a global context.
 •   Strengthen links including evaluation of public health initiatives in the local population around
     our new White City campus, especially through the NIHR Applied Research Collaborative
     (ARC).
 •   Expand our capability for monitoring of health service performance through the analysis of
     large integrated patient datasets that include data from primary care, community services,
     social care, mental health and hospital care.


 1c. Approach to Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 Interdisciplinary research is central to our strategy in UoA2, the FoM and the College, with a focus
 on convergent science, physical (e.g. at White City) and virtual co-location through College
 Institutes, Centres and Networks (see Ref5a). Interdisciplinarity is reflected through our broad
 internal and external collaborations. Staff draw on expertise in clinical research with numerous
 collaborations with staff in FoM (UoA1, UoA4), for example, ICTU works closely with researchers
 across FoM to support trial development, design and analysis.

 We actively participate in cross-Faculty interdisciplinary research through Imperial’s Networks of
 Excellence (Air Quality, Antimicrobial Research Collaborative, Malaria, Vaccine Research), the
 Data Science Institute, the Grantham Institute for Climate Change and the Environment and the
 Cancer Research UK Imperial Centre). Externally we collaborate extensively in inter-disciplinary
 projects and networks in the UK and globally (Section 4). Our work on health system evaluation
 and public health involves widespread collaboration with other departments, including
 Endocrinology (Johnston), Surgery (Darzi, Mayer [UoA1]) and the Business School (Sassi
 [UoA17]). Work on dementia involves collaborations with the UK Dementia Research Institute
 (Matthews, Sharp [UoA4]), Dyson School of Design Engineering (Haddadi, [UoA12]) and the
 Department of Computing (Russo [UoA11]).

 The inter-disciplinary nature of our research is reflected in our training. We recruit individuals from
 a broad range of disciplines including biological sciences, medicine, computational sciences
 (mathematics, statistics, computer science, physics) and social science (economics). We support
 transfer between disciplines through short courses on relevant topics and collaborative work within
 and between teams through regular internal work-in-progress seminars given by research
 students and postdoctoral staff.

 1d. Approach to Achieving Impact

 Our research is driven by the desire to have meaningful and sustained impact in improving public
 health (see impact case studies). We achieve a high level of translational impact through deep
 and sustained partnerships with industry and public health agencies locally, nationally and
 globally. In the UK, our translational impact is supported through our collaboration with PHE via
 our three joint NIHR HPRUs, as well as through the MRC Centre for Environment and Health and
 SAHSU. Internationally, staff engage extensively with global health partners. We host three WHO
 Collaborating Centres – the Centre for Infectious Disease Modelling (Ferguson), the Institute on
 Polio Data Analysis and Modelling (Grassly), and the Centre for Public Health Education and
 Training (Rawaf), NCD-RisC (Ezzati) in close collaboration with WHO, and the UNAIDS Reference
 Group on Estimates, Modelling and Projections. These provide regular two-way interactions that
 help shape the research and enable translation of research outputs into tangible policy impacts.
 We partner with the pharmaceutical industry and not-for-profit product development initiatives,
 allowing us to directly support the development pipeline for new tools, diagnostics, therapeutics
 and vaccines (Section 4). Our impact case studies arose through these long-term sustained

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnerships: our COVID-19 Modelling work in the UK and the REACT study were enabled by our
 formal collaboration with PHE via our NIHR HPRUs alongside positions held by academic staff on
 government advisory committees; our malaria case study arose through one of our WHO Centres;
 our health effects of noise case study through SAHSU and the MRC Centre for Environment and
 Health; our health service performance case study through our expertise in analysing large NHS
 datasets, and the inclisiran case study through collaboration with industry (The Medicines
 Company).

 To ensure researchers are fully engaged in translation of their work, we hold regular workshops
 with industry and public health partners to understand their research and policy needs. These are
 targeted at all levels including research students and ECRs who are encouraged to engage directly
 with the organisations and present their results. Consequently, we have a high level of
 engagement with stakeholders, and encourage additional opportunities for student and
 postdoctoral placements. Recent examples include a PhD student seconded to WHO, another to
 a start-up genetics company and a postdoc to GO-Science.

 1e. Enabling an Open Research Environment

 Since REF2014 we have striven to create an environment in which research is readily and rapidly
 shared with the wider scientific community and the public. This is reflected in our outputs, with all
 but one REF output OA compliant. However, we aim to go above and beyond the REF OA policy
 requirements to ensure that our data are accessible to all, our research methods are reproducible,
 and our outputs are widely disseminated beyond the traditional academic publishing model.

 Much of our research draws on data from national and multinational cohort studies. Our approach
 to data storage to enable sharing is outlined in Section 3.c. For example, the INTERMAP China
 Study (Chan Q, Elliott) data collection protocol was published in Wellcome Open Research and
 the analysis code is available on GitHub. The Airwave Health Monitoring Study (Elliott) data have
 been shared with >30 research groups worldwide via the Dementias Platform UK data portal. Data
 on the Indian Chronic Disease Network (Jha) have been shared with the international network of
 chronic kidney disease cohorts. NCD-RisC (Ezzati) computer code, output and input data where
 legally possible, are made available in a harmonised format on an open access basis with country
 estimates used extensively by other researchers. Clinical data from the UK Neonatal Research
 Database (Modi) are available through the HDR UK Alliance Gateway .

 We have invested heavily in making model code accessible and usable by external groups through
 establishing an internal software development team (Section 3), allowing independent validation
 of our research methods and code (Section 4.g), and have explored innovative ways to allow
 tools and results to be accessed by a broader audience. We host a website for sharing analyses
 of bacterial genetic data (https://poppunk.net/, Croucher, Lees), a data visualisation tool to share
 global estimates of the public health impact of vaccination generated by the Vaccine Impact
 Modelling       Consortium        (Gaythorpe,      Ferguson,      Grassly,       Hallett,     Ghani
 https://www.vaccineimpact.org/dataviz/), and a website to host district-level estimates of HIV
 incidence and prevalence and antiretroviral therapy uptake to support local planning
 (https://www.hivdata.org.za/). NCD-Risc (Ezzati) hosts an online visualization tool
 (https://www.ncdrisc.org/data-visualisations.html) accessed from 228 countries/territories since
 launch in 2016. We have used dashboards to share results during the COVID-19 pandemic which
 can be updated daily or weekly to complement traditional scientific publications. Examples include
 https://mrc-ide.github.io/global-lmic-reports/                 (Walker,         Ghani)           and
 https://imperialcollegelondon.github.io/covid19local/#details (Bhatt, Ferguson, Flaxman [UoA10],
 Gandy [UoA10]).

 User-friendly interfaces to models help support science translation and public health planning.
 Examples include: two tools for HIV planning “Shiny90” (https://shiny90.unaids.org/) and “Naomi”
 (https://naomi.unaids.org/) with UNAIDS (Eaton), the “Mint” tool (https://mint.dide.ic.ac.uk/) to
 support malaria planning with WHO (Churcher) and the www.covidsim.org software in


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with WHO to support country healthcare planning and vaccine introductions
 (Winskill, Walker, Ghani).

 1f. Maintaining Research Integrity

 Researchers in the UoA take advantage of FoM and College procedures. Imperial is a signatory
 of the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. We have adopted the Universal Ethical Code
 for Scientists and uphold its three principles. Researchers are supported by the Joint Research
 Office (JRO) and the Research Governance and Integrity Team (RGIT). The JRO facilitates the
 management of research grants, contracts and EU projects while RGIT ensures researchers meet
 their responsibilities in research governance to fulfil the legal, ethical and scientific obligations of
 the healthcare research process. This includes general data protection regulations (GDPR) via
 the data protection team and human research ethics via Imperial College Research Ethics
 Committee (ICREC) which reviews health-related research involving human participants and/or
 their data where not covered by Health Research Authority Research Ethics Service. We have
 also established the Science, Engineering and Technology Research Ethics Committee
 (SETREC) to review non-health related research involving human participants and/or their data
 and high-risk educational research undertaken by College staff or students.

 College provides guidance and training to staff and students across a wide range of areas linked
 to research integrity, including mandatory plagiarism awareness training for doctoral students.
 Plagiarism software is used for all PhD theses and Masters’ Dissertations.

 2. People

 2a. Staffing Strategy

 Our highest priority is our staff. We strive to attract and retain world-leading and rising-star
 academics, to develop leaders in their fields, and support our professional staff to fulfil their
 potential. We foster an intellectually challenging and invigorating environment in which
 collaborative science is centrepiece, as evidenced by the high degree of research collaboration
 between staff. We place a strong emphasis on supporting and mentoring junior investigators by
 providing training and professional development opportunities. At all levels staff are supported
 through career development pathways, providing opportunity for advancement both within
 academia and externally. Our holistic programme ensures that development activities fill skills
 gaps and equip staff for organisational change so they can be agile and responsive to new ways
 of working, as evidenced by the way staff adapted to working remotely during the COVID-19
 pandemic.

 To facilitate public health translation, we make strategic joint appointments with key stakeholders
 (e.g., White, joint appointment with the PHE Modelling and Economic Unit). Staff and students
 also undertake secondments to public health partners (e.g. Hargreaves to the Department for
 Education as deputy science adviser, Greaves previously clinical advisor to the Chief Medical
 Officer, now Director of Science, Evidence and Analytics at the National Institute for Health and
 Care Excellence (NICE) and Deputy Director of Public Health Science to Joint Biosecurity Centre
 (JBC), PhD student Thompson and research associate Hamlet to WHO, Blangiardo and PhD
 student Green to JBC). We have identified and acted upon strategic opportunities; for example,
 recruitment of the Environmental Research Group from KCL to strengthen our environmental
 epidemiology expertise and The George Institute for Global Health UK from Oxford to augment
 translation to policy and our global clinical trials expertise. We have many international joint
 appointments that build on established and new research collaborations (Section 4). Since REF
 2014 we have expanded our connections with LMICs to support the development of research
 globally (Section 4).

 2b. Staffing and Recruitment Policy



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have invested heavily in attracting new academic staff with a combination of open and strategic
 recruitment targeting areas of identified need. We have recruited 38 academic staff (13 professors,
 3 readers, 15 senior lecturers and 7 lecturers, 34% female), representing an investment in salary
 costs alone of over £20m during this REF period and contributing to our 45% FTE increase in
 submitted staff. Our gender ratio across UoA2 is 39% female and BME representation has
 increased (19%). We continue to identify opportunities to improve this (Section 2f).

 We have successfully expanded the number of ECRs, thereby supporting the transition from
 postdoctoral work to independence. The Imperial College Research Fellowships (ICRFs; formerly
 Imperial Junior Research Fellowship) support the brightest and best early career researchers from
 across the world. We have appointed 10 ICRFs since REF2014 (including Jauneikaite, Lees,
 Winskill). We have also increased our cadre of exceptional ECRs holding prestigious competitive
 fellowships including Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Wellcome (Pons-Salort, Kaforou) and Sir Henry
 Dale (Croucher, Pons-Salort), MRC (Verity, Walker), The Royal Society (Okell), and MRC FLF
 (Robinson [UoA14]).

 Many of those that completed fellowships have subsequently secured senior appointments. For
 example, Lamberton (ICRF 2012 cohort) is Reader at the University of Glasgow, Oude Griep
 (ICRF 2014 cohort) is Senior Research Associate at the MRC Epidemiology Unit in the University
 of Cambridge, whilst Mostowy (ICRF 2015 cohort) leads a lab at the Jagiellonian University in
 Kraków, Poland. Others moved into non-academic environments; for example, Slater (ICRF 2016
 cohort) to the international NGO PATH whilst Lehne (ICRF 2015 cohort) is Data Science Lead for
 John Lewis. Several external fellowship holders have also been promoted to academic
 appointments (Croucher, Okell, Walker).

 2c. Research Student Training

 The research student body in UoA2 has expanded since REF 2014 with a total of 124 research
 students enrolling between 2014 and 2020 (with annual numbers ~ 100 enrolled students) and
 91% submission within 4 years of enrolment across this period. We have worked hard to ensure
 a diverse student population with 59%/41% female/male ratio and 5.1% Black, 7.2% Chinese,
 13.0% Asian, 13.4% mixed and 61.4% white students. Students are supported through doctoral
 training accounts (DTAs) from the MRC, BBSRC, NERC and EPSRC, through funding provided
 directly to the two MRC Centres, the three HPRUs, via a 4-year Wellcome Trust PhD programme
 and the Wellcome Clinical PhD programme, through the J-IDEA PhD programme and via the
 NIHR-funded ARC. Additional 17 studentships have been awarded from the Imperial College
 President’s PhD programme.

 We run a rigorous recruitment process and are heavily over-subscribed with ~10-15 applications
 per place. Applications are independently scored by several academics and rankings made prior
 to interview, ensuring a rigorous and unbiased selection process. We have increased efforts to
 improve diversity in student recruitment. This year, FoM staged a PG recruitment webinar called
 “Think Imperial!”, with the aim to widen participation rates and the diversity of PG applicants. The
 event had ~440 students registered, representing 172 institutions (65% non-Russell group). We
 also trialled “anonymised” applications at the short-listing stage in which gender and other
 identifiers are removed. To better reflect the global nature of our research, we ring-fenced specific
 funded places for students from LMICs; during this REF period we enrolled students from across
 the global south including Asia, Africa and Latin America. Additionally, we successfully supported
 students from LMICs through Commonwealth studentships.

 Students joining the research programme embark on either a 3- or 4-year programme. Students
 undertake a first week orientation providing an overview of key training elements and milestones
 and develop a research training plan during the first 6 weeks - incorporating a review of skills
 needed for the research and for future employment. This includes generic (transferable), project-
 specific and discipline-specific skills training. Sources of training include graduate school activities
 (including a compulsory online plagiarism awareness course, a minimum of four professional skills
 courses, a residential skills and development course or two additional professional skills courses,

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and one of the international summer schools or two further additional professional skills courses),
 departmental training such as research seminars and courses, and from other sources (internal
 or external courses, Masters modules, the Centre for Academic English). A monitoring plan
 includes an independent assessor panel (one internal and one external to the department or
 College) providing feedback on progress at three points (three months ,12-18 months and 18-24
 months).

 Training for PhD supervisors is through the College’s Continuing Professional Development
 programme, involving mandatory training and encouragement to take further development
 courses including “Best practice in supervision” workshops and an online course supporting the
 mental health and wellbeing of doctoral students.

 Research students take part in an annual SPH PhD day in which they present their research in
 conference style, providing an opportunity to interact with their peers and to build connections as
 a cohort. A postdoc-student mentoring scheme enables established postdoctoral researchers to
 provide support to students at admission, helping them to integrate into the wider activities of the
 department. The PhD students organise regular social events as a cohort (financially supported),
 ranging from regular coffee-chats or pizza lunches to external social activities.

 Clinical Academic Training: We are returning five clinical ECRs. To support them and others,
 Imperial AHSC set up a Clinical Academic Training Office (CATO) in 2015, with a dedicated team
 reporting directly to the Imperial FoM Dean and AHSC NHS Chief Executives. CATO takes
 responsibility for the entire academic training path for Health Education England and NIHR-funded
 fellows (foundation doctors, Academic Clinical Fellows (ACFs), Clinical Lecturers). CATO also
 supports all clinicians undertaking PhDs and runs a novel 2-year Post-Doctoral Fellowship to
 support doctors after PhDs before applying for intermediate fellowships. For our growing non-
 medical clinical academic programme, they have established fellowship opportunities for pre-
 doctoral and post-doctoral clinicians (one-year secondments to develop their research interests
 and capabilities and apply for further funding) and a range of other support activities specifically
 for non-medics. In 2018 Imperial established the Healthcare Professionals Academic Group
 (HPAG) creating a “home” for Imperial non-medical clinical academics and patient-centred
 research.

 2d. Supporting Junior Researchers

 Within UoA2, we have 21 REF-defined ECRs. Dedicated support for ECRs and post-doctoral
 researchers is provided at College level via the Postdoc and Fellows Development Centre (PFDC)
 who coordinate an extensive portfolio of support activities including 10 development days written
 into their contracts, career advice, support with applications for fellowships (CV, mock interviews)
 and one-to-one support. In partnership with the PFDC, we supported a 2-day residential workshop
 targeted at supporting the transition to independence. The PFDC also run a bespoke programme
 of support for our independent research fellows and clinicians actively pursuing academic careers
 at Imperial.

 This programme is supplemented by specific activities within SPH, including an established
 mentoring programme for postdoctoral staff, regular participatory workshops to support CV
 development, grant-writing and promotion applications, and biennial career days involving external
 speakers (including former staff) from industry, government departments, research funders and
 international health agencies such as WHO. Technical training and support is also provided,
 including seminar series (many organised and led by ECRs) and training workshops to fill specific
 skills gaps (including statistical methods, data presentation and programming).

 Representation within the departments is enabled through postdoctoral representatives, who
 help shape policies around PhD supervision and inductions and are represented on management
 committees. Each department has an academic “post-doc champion” who ensures that postdocs
 and fellows' needs are being met.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Imperial has implemented fully the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 and has been awarded the European HR Excellence in Research Badge since 2012 (see REF
 5a). Imperial is committed to and mapped our actions against the 40 principles of the European
 Charter and Code. Each year, every member of College staff is required to undertake a Personal
 Review and Development Plan, a two-way discussion between staff member and manager aimed
 at recognising achievement, providing constructive feedback, and assisting with career
 development. Staff benefit from the College’s flexible working policy.

 2e. Staff Development

 Policies for leave are outlined in Section 2.f and for facilitating exchanges in Section 1.d.

 Retention of staff is key. We have implemented a suite of activities to recognise and reward our
 staff. We run annual promotions rounds where we consider all eligible staff as well as inviting
 open expressions of interest from staff themselves. Clear promotion guidelines are made available
 to all eligible staff with reminders sent on a regular basis. Promotion documentation explicitly
 considers administration, pastoral, outreach, mentoring and diversity activities, as well as caring
 responsibilities or parental leave. Quality of research is emphasised over quantity and teaching
 contribution is emphasised, especially at lower grades, while research, mentoring and
 international reputation are encompassed at higher grades. Interview panel members undertake
 unconscious bias training and panels include academic representation, an Athena representative
 and a College Consul who serve to ensure fair process across College. We run an annual pay
 relativity exercise to objectively review each member of staff’s salary in line with benchmark
 information or the relevant Pay Progression Framework to ensure parity between colleagues
 undertaking similar roles. FoM has been working with colleagues in Manchester (Professor
 Lennon) and Oxford (Professor McShane) to develop a clear career path for all those
 undertaking research roles within a Team Science context, including technologists, coordinators
 and managers. This will encompass all staff, including fixed-term and part-time contracts. We aim
 to develop a framework for career progression with implementation in 2021/2.

 2f. Supporting Equality and Diversity

 Imperial College is committed to supporting all staff to achieve their best. Recognising, as a sector,
 that there are issues to overcome in equality and diversity, we have made substantial changes to
 support our staff. At College level, we have established an executive Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI) Strategy Group headed by the Provost, appointed Imperial’s first Assistant
 Provost (EDI) and established an EDI Forum with a broad and representative membership. These
 new bodies work closely together to promote the integration of the values of EDI that are
 envisaged in the strategy document.

 The FoM Culture Initiatives Management Group (CIMG) was formed in 2019, reports directly
 to the Dean and is Chaired by the Vice Dean Institutional Affairs (Lloyd, [UoA1]). This Group aims
 to create an inclusive culture and environment and is involved in shaping strategies, policies and
 processes, as well as generating resources and improved signposting for students and staff at all
 levels and career stages. We have also convened a Black Lives Matter working group, reporting
 in to the CIMG, to specifically focus on issues of racial inequalities for students and staff.
 Recognising the importance of this work, in late 2019 we appointed our inaugural Project Director
 of the CIMG (Essilfie-Quaye).

 Since REF2014 we have improved our gender balance (39% female) and increased the ethnic
 diversity (19% BME) of our staff. We have also increased the visibility of women at the top level,
 with 5 out of 11 women on the SPH board and a female Director of the School. However, we are
 cognisant that further improvement is required across the academic sector and have therefore
 instigated a programme of work to address issues that have been identified as barriers to progress.
 This is overseen by our Equal Opportunities Committee (EOC, Co-Chairs Bottle, Fecht [UoA14]),
 who work closely with broader initiatives in FoM (through a Faculty Culture Initiatives Management
 Group chaired by Vice Dean for Institutional Affairs, Lloyd [UoA1]) and across the College to plan

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and coordinate EDI activities including Athena SWAN, the Race Equality Charter, and Staff Survey
 Action Planning.

 The EOC meets regularly to monitor and act upon data on research student admissions and
 outcomes, academic recruitment, promotion, training, and uptake of flexible working and career
 breaks. Entry into research student programmes is gender-balanced but there remains a level of
 under-representation of some BME groups; this is reflective of the undergraduate representation
 of the institutions from which we have historically recruited. To redress this, we are working across
 the Faculty to explore options for increasing applications and admissions from previously under-
 represented institutions (e.g., outside the Russell group) and to support students at an earlier
 stage in their career (e.g., by enabling support for under-represented undergraduate students to
 undertake summer research projects). To increase diversity of our academic staff appointments,
 we instigate formal search committees using a panel for senior appointments and advertise
 extensively internally and externally for advertised lecturer and senior lecturer positions. All
 recruitment panels are mixed gender and panel staff are required to take regular EDI training. We
 have identified internal promotion as an opportunity to increase the diversity of our staff and we
 ensure that all staff are aware of the annual procedures for promotion and are actively encouraged
 and supported by senior staff. Furthermore, all staff are considered without application to make
 sure that no-one is missed. We also support broader career development activities, including
 specific support at the postdoctoral level (via the PFDC) and for junior academic staff (through the
 Learning and Development Centre and the annual personal review and development programme
 which is monitored by the EOC), highlighting the range of career pathways available to illustrate
 that there is no “one size fits all”. Support is available for all staff in applying for research funding,
 with “shadow” panels now instigated for MRC applications to provide early feedback, for the two
 Boards piloted, success rates have improved on average, 10%.

 College staff may take paid study leave of up to three days each year and apply for flexibility in
 their work schedule to facilitate attendance, to sit examinations, revision and the preparation of
 coursework. Staff can take an interest-free loan to help with costs of part-time study. We are proud
 to have been listed in this year’s Top Ten Employers for Working Families and to have won The
 Cityparents Best for all stages of Fatherhood Award (2017). Through the working practice changes
 imposed by COVID-19 we supported staff and students working from home by ensuring they had
 the necessary equipment needed to work, including attending to relevant health and safety needs,
 and by instituting regular remote departmental meetings and social opportunities.

 Practical support is provided for new parents with caring responsibilities, including College-wide
 new parents workshops, “keep in touch” days, childcare vouchers and monitoring of satisfaction
 with flexible working options through an annual parental voices survey. Staff are encouraged to
 apply for the Elsie Widdowson Fellowship award provided by College to enable returning
 academic staff to be relieved of teaching or administrative duties to fully concentrate on research
 for up to 12 months. Practical support to cover caring costs when staff attend conferences or
 undertake training is provided through a College-wide scheme. Social activities support this wider
 ethos; we have successfully established annual away days for staff and families, ensure meetings
 are scheduled within the working day and are flexible to different working patterns and consider
 the cultural appropriateness of social activities.

 Additional measures to support staff with, for example, illness, disability and return from long term
 absence include “Staying Healthy at Work” plans, access to 24hour confidential care line and
 mental health first aiders (51 within FoM across all campuses). Each department has a disability
 officer as the first point of contact for staff and students and there is financial support for
 adjustments to support those with a disability.

 The EOC support activities to ensure a culture of respect and inclusivity. All staff participate in
 courses to raise awareness including unconscious bias and active bystander training. Senior staff
 are encouraged to undertake 360-degree appraisals to identify and address EDI issues. We run
 an annual showcase to celebrate research success, excellent teaching outputs and public
 engagement activities across the School. Our annual Athena SWAN lectures given by prominent

                                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leaders in academia, health and related disciplines are well attended by staff. We also run a
 lunchtime discussion group to address and debate issues around inclusivity. Alongside the
 College’s accreditations (Athena Swan, Race Equality Charter, Time to Change, Disability
 Confident, AccessAble, Stonewall) and networks (Able@Imperial (disability), Imperial 600
 (LGBTQ+), Imperial as One [BME]), we engage with the British Medical Association racial
 harassment charter for medical schools and target advertising through agencies such as “Black
 British in STEM”. We also engage with the FoM 2eMPower Project – making STEM accessible for
 students with specific learning difficulties throughout their education.

 All academic staff are included in the REF submission. Independent research staff were identified
 as per the College’s REF code of practice. All staff were asked to nominate 10 outputs, and these
 were scored by a panel composed of senior academic staff. A computer-based algorithm (agnostic
 to individual characteristics) was then used to select the outputs based on the assigned scores
 whilst ensuring each person returned at least one and no more than five outputs. The selected
 outputs were further reviewed to ensure that outputs with multiple UoA2 authors were assigned to
 the most appropriate author. Thirty-nine percent of outputs were assigned to female staff and 15%
 to BME staff which closely matches the overall UoA2 submission (39% female, 19% BME).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. Income

 We employ a diverse range of strategies to generate income. During this REF period, investigators
 in UoA2 have a research spend of £282m equating to £510k per FTE/yr, with a yearly average
 funding growing from £26.2m in 2014 to £40.2m in this REF period, a 55% increase. Including
 £27m from Research Councils, £77m from Government (including NIHR/DHSC), and £68m from
 charities (UK and overseas). We employ a diverse range of strategies to generate income.

 Supporting individuals through personal awards: we provide mentorship through departments
 and the PFDC, internal peer review at departmental level, strong institutional support reflected in
 meaningful letters of support, and mock interviews focussing both on science and presentation
 skills. Our success has been demonstrated through Wellcome Trust Investigator Awards (Ghani,
 Hauck, Riley, Volz); five NIHR senior/Emeritus investigators (Ashby, Elliott, Ferguson, Poulter,
 Ward); ERC Advanced Grant (Fraser); NIHR Professorship to Millett; Marie Sklodowska-Curie
 Fellowships to Blanquart, Dagnino, Plusquin; and 12 ECR fellowships (Section 2.b).

 Supporting underpinning research: to improve our grant success rates, we undertake rigorous
 internal peer review and have recently established “shadow panels” for all project grant
 applications to the four standing research boards at the MRC. In this REF period, we have secured
 over 700 grants from a range of funders including MRC (£23m), NIHR (£34m), Wellcome (£18m)
 and BMGF (£18m). Twenty-one of our researchers have been successful in a range of externally
 funded COVID-19 calls (MRC, NIHR, Wellcome).

 Developing strategic opportunities: through building partnerships within and across faculties
 as well as between institutions, our researchers lead on various national and international strategic
 partnerships. As noted, three NIHR/PHE HPRUs are held in UoA2 [leads Ferguson, Elliott and
 Kelly [UoA14]) (£12m total income) and our two MRC Centres were extended beyond their 10-
 year tenure as a mark of quality and their unique position in the UK landscape (£20m total income
 this REF period).

 Fundraising: Working with Imperial alumni, our Advancement team raises funds for scholarships,
 academic positions, research centres and capital projects. This can take the form of unsolicited
 gifts through to larger donations built around fundraising campaigns. Over this REF period, UoA2
 have raised £53.5m, supported by a successful campaign which brought in investment to establish
 The Mohn Centre for Children's Health and Wellbeing and the Mohn Chair, the Battcock Chair in
 Community Health and Policy and J-IDEA.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3b. Infrastructure

 Since 2014, Imperial College has committed £59.8m on building and estates projects for UoA2,
 with a spend to date of £15.1m. Targeted philanthropic fundraising programme, by the end of this
 REF period, we secured £25m to fund a new purpose-built home for SPH on the recently
 transformed White City Campus enabling the co-location of the School’s researchers for the first
 time. The new school will include collaborative, flexible and interactive spaces for our academics,
 collaborators, students and the local community. Fundraising continues and has now reached
 £57m.

 To support innovation and entrepreneurship, we have created a network of innovation spaces for
 businesses of all sizes – major corporations, high-tech and high-growth companies, SMEs, start-
 ups and entrepreneurs – to work alongside Imperial researchers at every stage of their
 development and growth. The Translation and Innovation Hub (iHUB) located on the White City
 Campus, provides space and facilities for companies of all sizes to work alongside our
 researchers to accelerate growth. In 2020 we opened the Scale Space, 20,000 sqm technology
 and innovation centre to support new high- growth technology companies.

 3c. Facilities

 Given the quantitative nature of our research, one of the biggest growth areas for UoA2
 researchers has been in data science. Our researchers lead several major initiatives in this area
 including the UK MEDical BIOinformatics partnership (UK MED-BIO; Elliott) with the Institute of
 Cancer Research. We are a substantive site in Health Data Research UK London (Lead, Elliott).
 We were a pioneer site for the NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative linking patient data via the
 electronic health record systems including clinical information, diagnostic tests and imaging data
 across 5 NIHR Biomedical Research Centres (BRC; Cooke [UoA1], Elliott, Kaura [ICHT], Mayet
 [ICHT]) and are leading partners in the HDRUK Discover-NOW Hub for Real World Evidence.

 Data Storage and Processing: Imperial has invested in a suite of secure storage and
 processing facilities to accommodate a range of sensitive datasets (de-identified and identifiable
 data) including the Institute of Global Health Innovation (IGHI) Big Data & Analytical Unit
 (BDAU), Data Science Institute (DSI), the Secure Enclave and the Research Computing Service
 (RCS) environment. The BDAU currently manages over 130 datasets for researchers across
 Imperial College. The Imperial Secure Enclave allows the storage of identifiers to facilitate data
 linkage. Internal collaborators include the DSI and we make use of the College high-
 performance computing (HPC) environment that provides world-class supercomputing clusters,
 providing a secure, flexible and scalable platform supporting data analysis.

 In collaboration with UKCloud and Bluemetrix, the NIHR Imperial BRC generated a high
 performance, cloud-based, informatics solution allowing NHS Trust staff and College
 researchers to access de-identified data with enhanced tooling, compute power and security.
 This system provides the ability to manage access control to specific data resources allowing full
 audit of every action that staff take when using Trust data.

 Data Sources and Collection: researchers draw on many different data sources including
 administrative data, bespoke data collected from deployed digital interventions, clinical trials,
 cohort studies and multiple qualitative datasets. Imperial has strong relationships with large data
 controllers including NHS Digital (NHSD), the Medicine and Healthcare Regulatory Agency
 (MHRA), WSIC and ICHT. Imperial currently holds national linked data at a person level for
 hospital encounters, mental health care, general practice consultations and specific condition
 registry data from cancer to diabetes with agreements to allow bespoke linkage for novel
 datasets. The College holds a Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) GOLD license, with
 access to over 35 million patients’ longitudinal linked records. Imperial is also pioneering the
 analysis of the WSIC dataset which covers 2.2 million patients in North West London (NWL) with
 linked records across primary, secondary, mental health and social care records allowing unique


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 insights into local population health and supporting the development of information dashboards
 to assist the management of health and social care across the sector.

 Data Protection: The College has established information governance structures to provide
 assurance to data providers, research subjects and patients that data are held and used
 appropriately. Systems holding sensitive data are ISO27001:2013 certified, and those hosting
 NHSD data are compliant with NHSD’s Data Security and Protection Toolkit. Staff are trained in
 GDPR and Good Clinical Practice (GCP/GxP) to ensure that all legal and ethical obligations are
 met. All mobile apps used for data collection are GDPR compliant with support from Imperial
 College’s Data Protection Officer and Compliance Manager, and meet criteria based on NHS
 Digital Assessment Questions covering data storage and privacy, authentication and session
 management and network communication.

 Data Transformation and Analysis: Imperial has robust and reproducible methods for data
 transformation ensuring that data integrity and availability is maintained throughout research
 programmes. An original immutable copy of each dataset is stored to ensure integrity of data
 and enable auditing of changes downstream. We utilise Github and SVN for version control of
 custom coding where applicable. We work with researchers to produce metadata for new and
 existing datasets to allow for continued reuse of data. Maintaining data quality and integrity is a
 key objective of our data management processes, ensuring that data can be used with
 confidence. Imperial hosts several analysis tools ranging from traditional quantitative tools to
 novel big data tools such as KNIME, HADOOP and custom natural language processing (NLP).

 Data Sharing, Dissemination and Archiving: Imperial facilitates data sharing with the wider
 research community ensuring that data are used to maximum potential for the benefit of patients
 and healthcare. Ensuring that data are findable, accessible, interoperable and re-usable (FAIR)
 enables this. The Imperial AHSN works with other regional AHSNs to share and utilise data for
 healthcare research and improvement across the entire UK. We use our Archives and College
 Records Unit (ACRU) internally for data archiving. Working with researchers we also create de-
 identified datasets for use by the wider scientific community.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4a. Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 Examples of interdisciplinary collaborations within Imperial College are provided in Section 1.

 Internationally, our collaboration with NTU in Singapore to create a new medical school, the LKC
 School of Medicine, has flourished and our first students graduated in 2018. We have also built
 our research partnerships, making key joint appointments and visiting positions between our
 institutions in strategically important areas for both organisations. There are four joint
 appointments between UoA2 staff and LKC (Car and Chambers based in Singapore, Elliott and
 Riboli based in London). Examples of collaborative research include:
     • Health for Life in Singapore (HELIOS) a large population study of 100,000 Singaporeans
          to understand the role of diet/lifestyle/physical activity/and diseases (Chambers, Elliott,
          Riboli) in collaboration with Associate Professor Joanne Ngeow (LKC).
     • E-Health - using e-health tools and technology for health system innovations for quality
          improvement (e.g. integrated care), and investigation of management of long-term
          diseases (Car, Majeed).
     • Cardiometabolic disease - identifying mechanisms underlying high rates of diabetes and
          cardiovascular disease amongst South Asians and East Asians and developing new
          strategies for prediction and prevention (Chambers).

 The recent transfer of The George Institute for Global Health UK to Imperial presents exceptional
 opportunity for ‘value added’ for both partners, leveraging The George’s excellence in policy-
 related research and international clinical trials with UoA2’s wide research portfolio in both
 infectious and chronic disease and in clinical trials.

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff hold joint or honorary research appointments with academic institutions in the UK and across
 the world: LSHTM (Baguelin, Jombart, Vineis), University of Oxford (Donnelly, Faria), University
 of Bristol (Tsilidis), PHE (White, Saxena), NICE (Greaves), Joint Biosecurity Centre (Greaves),
 University of Ioannina, Greece (Evangelou, Tsilidis) Barcelona Institute for Global Health, ISGlobal
 Spain (Sicuri), Centre d’Economie de la Sorbonne, France (Sicuri), University of Ljubljana,
 Slovenia (Car), University of Washington, US (Ezzati, Hallett), Harvard School of Public Health,
 US (Ezzati), Columbia University, US (Vineis), Johns Hopkins University, US (Woodward),
 University of Laval, Canada (Boily), Biomedical Research and Training Institute, Zimbabwe
 (Gregson), University of Ghana (Ezzati), Shiga University of Medical Science, Japan (Chan Q,
 Woodward), Manipur Academy of Higher Education, India (Jha), National Institute for Medical
 Research, India (Arinaminpathy), Peking University Health Science Centre, China (Norton),
 Mahidol University, Thailand (Woodward), University of Sao Paulo, Brazil (Faria).

 We lead on a number of international cohorts including EPIC (Riboli), INTERSALT/INTERMAP
 (Chan Q, Elliott), COSMOS (Elliott, Toledano) and have leading positions on international trials
 (e.g. Finfer, Neal, Poulter, Ray, Section 1.b) and the NCD-RisC collaboration (Ezzati). We lead
 the UK National Neonatal Research Database (Modi) and the European Atherosclerosis Society
 Familial Hypercholesterolaemia Studies Collaboration (Vallejo-Vas). We participate in steering
 committees of the Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research in Genomic Epidemiology (CHARGE)
 consortium (Dehghan), the International HundredK+ Cohorts Consortium (IHCC, Elliott), the
 Australian Sepsis Network and Asia Pacific International Sepsis Forum (Director, Finfer).

 We lead and participate in many international modelling consortia. We established and hosted the
 secretariat for the BMGF-funded HIV Modelling Consortium (Hallett, Eaton, Boily), led the BMGF-
 funded Diagnostics Modelling Consortium (2014-2016, Ghani, Hallett, Arinaminpathy) and host
 the secretariat for the Vaccine Impact Modelling Consortium, a joint initiative between BMGF and
 Gavi (Ferguson, Garske, Gaythorpe, Ghani, Grassly, Hallett). We are active members of the
 BMGF-funded TB Modelling Consortium TB-MAC (Arinaminpathy), Malaria Modelling Consortium
 (Bhatt, Churcher, Ghani, Walker, Winskill) and NTD Modelling Consortium (Anderson, Basanez,
 Turner). Through these consortia we have contributed to collaborative publications that directly
 inform global policy - including a special issue on Diagnostics Modelling (Ghani et al., Nature
 2015), multi-model comparisons for HIV, malaria and NTDs, and the Lancet Commission on
 Tuberculosis 2019. We co-lead the London Centre for NTDs (Anderson) and the HPTN Modelling
 Centre (Boily).

 Staff engage with a range of networks e.g.: Worldwide Antimalarial Resistance Network (Okell),
 COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium (Volz), The Global Pneumococcal Sequencing Project
 (Croucher), the MoxiMultiDoseMod Consortium (Basanez), The APLHA and AHISA Networks
 (Gregson), the UK Vaccine Research Network (Ferguson), The Cancer and Nutrition NIHR
 Infrastructure Collaboration (Cross), International Consortium for Blood Pressure Genetics (Elliott,
 Evangelou), China Kidney Disease Network (CK-NET, Jha), the Genetics and Epidemiology of
 Colorectal Cancer Consortium and the Breast and Prostate Cancer Cohort Consortium (Tsilidis).

 4b. Engagement with Research Users and Beneficiaries

 We endeavour to make our findings broadly available in the research community through sharing
 of data, code and tools (Section 3.b). Examples of software tools developed to support the wider
 research community include the R-packages ODIN, EpiEstim, Outbreaker2 and Epidemia.
 Dissemination of these tools is aided by the R Epidemics Consortium (RECON) (Jombart) bringing
 together global researchers with those working in public health agencies.

 Staff in UoA2 have established research partnerships with major pharmaceutical companies
 including GSK (Anderson), GSK Vaccines (Ghani), Sanofi (Ferguson, Ray), Janssen (Anderson,
 Middleton), Takeda (Ferguson, Grassly, Middleton), Pfizer (Pinder, Ray), Amgen (Woodward),
 The Medicines Company (Ray, see impact case study), Novartis (Middleton), AstraZeneca
 (Middleton), Nestle International (Modi). These research partnerships have been critical in

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understanding mechanisms of action of new therapeutics and drugs and translating these insights
 to understand their utility, impact and cost-effectiveness at the population level.

 Collaborations with start-ups/not-for-profit include Antigen Discovery Incorporated (a California-
 based startup, Croucher), MedAccess (a price guarantee company that facilitates access to public
 health technologies by lower-income countries, Churcher), Medicines for Malaria Venture (Okell,
 Ghani, Walker), Integrated Vector Control Consortium (Churcher, Ghani), PATH (a global not-for-
 profit aiming to improve public health, Churcher, Ghani, Walker, Winskill,), Kyowa Kirin
 (development of genetic tests to improve healthcare, Woodward).

 4c. Research Impact

 Staff provide scientific advice to the UK government through membership of advisory panels
 including Committee on Medical Aspects of Radiation in the Environment (COMARE, Toledano),
 Committee on Toxicity (Toledano), Public Health England Adenoma Surveillance Guidelines
 Development Group (Cross), UK Scientific Advisory Group on Emergencies (Ferguson), New and
 Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (Ferguson), Advisory Group on Dangerous
 Pathogens (Ferguson), Scientific Pandemic Influenza Subgroup on Modelling, SPI-M (Baguelin,
 Ferguson, Riley), Independent Scientific and Technical Advice register for the Ministry of Defence
 (Arinaminpathy), Expert Advisory Group to the International Comparators Joint Unit for assessing
 responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, The Cabinet Office and FCO (Hauck), UK Panel for the
 Certification of Elimination of Polio, Measles and Rubella (Grassly), Expert Scientific and Clinical
 Advisory Panel NHS Health Check (Greaves), Clinical Digital Council NHSX (Greaves), NICE
 Guideline Committee on Babies, Children and Young People’s Experience of Healthcare
 (Hargreaves), Chair, Clinical and Technical Expert Group on Integrated Development for Global
 Dementia Strategy 2014-15 (Middleton). In addition, during the COVID-19 pandemic, students and
 staff were seconded to government and PHE: Atchison (PHE), Imai (Government Office for
 Science), and Blangiardo, Green (Wellcome Trust-funded PhD student) to the UK Joint Biosecurity
 Centre.

 Staff play a prominent role in WHO standing advisory committees across a range of infectious and
 chronic diseases: a non-exhaustive list includes WHO SAGE Working Group on COVID-19
 vaccines (Grassly), WHO Malaria Policy Advisory Committee (Ghani) and Malaria Evidence
 Review Groups (Churcher, Ghani, Okell, Walker), WHO Reference Group on Health Statistics
 (Eaton), WHO Strategic and Technical Advisory Committee for Tuberculosis (Arinaminpathy),
 WHO Guideline Development Group for Cervical Cancer Pre-Lesions (Boily), WHO Development
 Committee on Guidelines for Antenatal Surveillance (Gregson), Environmental Working and
 Cessation Risk Task Teams of the WHO Global Polio Eradication Initiative (Blake), WHO
 Reference Group on Health Statistics Task Force on Risk Factors (Ezzati), WHO / Global Sepsis
 Alliance, Sepsis Task Force (Finfer), WHO Advisory Group on Classification of Diabetes
 Complications (Gregg), WHO Task Force on Donation and Transplantation of Human Organs and
 Tissues (Jha), WHO Expert Advisory Panel on Human Cell, Tissue and Organ Transplantation
 (Jha), WHO Risk Reduction of Cognitive Decline and Dementia, Guidelines Development Group
 (Kivipelto).

 Staff provide advice internationally to global health agencies and foreign governments. The former
 include The World Bank (Ferguson), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance (Ghani), The Global Fund
 (Arinaminpathy, Churcher, Ghani, Hallett, Hauck, Winskill), US Centers for Disease Control and
 Prevention (Eaton, Ghani, Winskill), US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, PEPFAR
 (Eaton), US President’s Malaria Initiative (Churcher, Walker), US Department of Health and
 Human Services and White House Homeland Security Council (Ferguson), International Decision
 Support Initiative (Hauck), World Cancer Research Fund (Chan D), the Global Sepsis Alliance
 (Finfer), Tobacco Control Committee of the European Respiratory Society (Filippidis), Expert
 Advisory Panel, Alzheimer Europe and Alzheimer Disease International (Kivipelto). The latter
 include New York State (Bhatt, appointed special advisor on COVID-19 pandemic modelling),
 International Advisory Panel to Hong Kong Government (Neal), the Minister of Health in Italy


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Vineis), Zimbabwe Ministry of Health COVID-10 Researchers Consortium (Gregson), National
 Institute of Medical Research, India (Arinaminpathy), Health Services Executive in Ireland (Bottle).

 The submitted impact case studies highlight a subsection of these extensive national and
 international interactions.

 4d. Public Engagement

 Sharing our research with the public is a crucial part of our mission. We participate in a range of
 activities including science festivals (including the annual MRC and Imperial Festivals), school
 outreach projects (including sessions in which school students visit the campus, scientists visiting
 schools and hosting year 12 students for summer projects), and numerous public talks. Examples
 include participation in “I’m a scientist get me out of here” (Donnelly), establishment of the LOL-
 lab bringing together local community, scientists and comedy, expert advice to the “Mumsnet
 Babies Podcast” and running “Pint of Science” events. In addition, PERC have further supported
 public engagement training, with 641 researchers and students and 91 members of the public
 participating since 2017. Staff members also gave regular talks and briefings to UK MPs in
 parliament (e.g. via All-Party Parliamentary groups) and regularly engage with the media

 PERC manage VOICE, an online platform for public and patient involvement and engagement.
 From January 2019 PERC hosted 106 opportunities on the VOICE online platform that have
 collectively involved at least 628 public members.

 COVID-19 and Public Engagement

 The COVID-19 pandemic put much of our research in the limelight and it was essential that we
 regularly communicated our findings to the public in a clear and unambiguous manner. Alongside
 early release of open-access online reports and preprints, we translated all report summaries into
 seven languages to ensure global accessibility. For key reports, we additionally generated videos
 distributed via social media and YouTube and co-published two reports in the Science Journal for
 Teens. In collaboration with Oxford Sparks, we contributed to an animation explaining COVID-19
 transmission and control, and through a partnership between PERC and the Burnt Orange Theatre
 Company, engaged 20 young creatives resulting in short films about five reports alongside their
 personal experience of the pandemic. We released 18 webinars updating the science posted on
 YouTube up to 31 July 2020 and participated in 17 external webinars for the public through global
 agencies and think-tanks (e.g. World Economic Forum, International Monetary Fund, The World
 Bank, Chatham House) and the media (BBC, Bloomberg, The Economist)

 In partnership with Coursera, we developed the “Science Matters: Let’s Talk About COVID-19
 Q&A” open online course, regularly updating material and adding modules throughout 2020. With
 over 138,000 registered users, the course was the most popular launched on Coursera during
 Europe’s first lockdown in the first half of 2020.

 Since March 2020, PERC have involved 4,812 members of the public in a range of COVID-19
 community involvement activities. Online, 420 people responded to a community involvement
 survey where they shared their views, experiences, and unmet needs on COVID-19 to guide
 research.

 Our COVID-19 research findings, publications and activities are shared on social media platforms
 including YouTube, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram and Facebook. This has massive reach; all tweets
 received over 14 million impressions in 2020, with Report 9 on the impact of nonpharmaceutical
 interventions reaching nearly half a million people. We regularly engaged with the UK and
 international media, responding to over 1000 media queries from 49 countries including regular
 newspaper, radio and television interviews with the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and Sky.

 4e. Sustainability


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We undertake training of researchers across the globe. We run three on-campus Masters courses
 in Epidemiology, Public Health, Health Data Analytics and Machine Learning, and in partnership
 with Coursera, we established the first fully online Global Masters of Public Health. This
 experience with online learning helped us to transition to online teaching during the pandemic. All
 courses include grounding in research methods and offer the opportunity to undertake a research
 project.

 We are committed to supporting the expansion of our discipline in LMICs. We run a number of
 popular short courses in epidemiology, statistics, modelling, data analytics and e-Health for
 researchers and public health specialists. With local partners, we have run training workshops in
 Colombia (2017,2019) supporting participants across Latin America, in Africa (in partnership with
 AIMS for example in Cameroon in 2019), and in Asia (for example, supporting capacity building
 for mathematical modelling in India).

 Our research is highly inter-disciplinary. External collaborations are described in Section 4.a.
 Examples within Imperial include the Target Malaria project, an $80m 5-year grant to develop
 gene-drive strategies to eliminate malaria-carrying mosquitoes led by Faculty of Natural Sciences
 (Burt [UoA5], Crisanti [UoA5], Ghani, Ferguson, Mumford [UoA14]); and the MRC-funded Digital
 Diagnostics for Africa Network, involving colleagues in all Faculties (Baum [UoA5], Cunnington
 [UoA1], Georgiou P [UoA12], Ghani, Okell, Rodriguez-Manzano [UoA1] ). We collaborate closely
 with colleagues in the Department of Mathematics in the development and application of statistical
 and mathematical methods (including Filippi [UoA10] who is a member of the MRC Centre for
 Environment and Health, Flaxman [UoA10], Gandy [UoA10], Ratmann [UoA10]) and with the
 Business School (Sassi [UoA17]).

 Through our engagement with UK government and international organisations, our research is
 highly responsive to national and international priorities in health. Nationally, through our NIHR
 HPRUs and other units, we work collaboratively with PHE addressing UK priorities, for example,
 evaluating the impact of air quality on health, the emergence of antibiotic resistance and antibiotic
 management, support for diabetes care and the growth of mental health issues in adolescents.
 Internationally, examples include support for WHO guidance and policy in relation to emerging
 outbreaks (Ebola, MERS, COVID-19), endemic diseases (HIV, TB, Hepatitis, malaria, polio, NTDs,
 sepsis) and NCDs (via NCD-RisC). We also work closely with global health partners including The
 World Cancer Research Fund, The World Bank, The Global Fund and Gavi to support delivery of
 core interventions.

 4f. Contribution to the Research Base

 UoA2 researchers contribute extensively to support the national and international research base
 in epidemiology, public health, health services, policy and primary care research. Non-exhaustive
 examples are provided here.

 Honours (since 2014):, Commander (Donnelly) of the Order of the British Empire; Knight (Vineis)
 and Officer (Riboli) of the Order of the Star of Italy; Officers of the Order of Australia (Finfer,
 MacMahon, Norton); Fellow of the Royal Society (Donnelly), Foreign Member of the US National
 Academy of Medicine (Ferguson); Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences (Donnelly, Ezzati,
 Ghani, Hallett, Modi, Woodward); member of the Italian Academy of Science (Vineis); Fellows of
 the Australian Academy of Health and Medical Sciences (Finfer, MacMahon, Neal, Norton,
 Woodward); NIHR Senior Investigator (Ward).

 Learned Societies: council member of the Royal Society (Donnelly); council member of the
 Academy of Medical Sciences (Modi); President-elect 2020-21, British Medical Association (Modi);
 President, Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health 2015-2018 (Modi); President 2019-2020
 (Ashby) and council Member (Donnelly) of the Royal Statistical Society; Vice-President (2016-
 2018) and President (2019-) of the British Society for Parasitology (Basanez); board member of
 the International Society for Sexually Transmitted Disease Research (Ward); President of the
 International Diabetes Epidemiology Group 2019-20 (Gregg); Vice-Chair of the Ethics Committee

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the International Agency for Research on Cancer (Vineis); President of the International
 Society of Hypertension (Poulter); President Elect 2020, European Atherosclerosis Society (Ray);
 Founder and co-lead of the NIHR Statistics Group (Cornelius), President (2016-), European
 Prevention of Alzheimer Dementia Academy (Kivipelto). Associated activities: Academy of Medical
 Sciences reports on “Multimorbidity: A Priority for Global Health Research” (MacMahon - Chair,
 Ezzati), “Preparing for a challenging winter 2020/21” (Ghani, Riley) and “Adaptive Trials” (Chair,
 Ashby); US National Academies Consensus Study Report on Dietary Reference Intakes for
 Sodium and Potassium in 2019 (Elliott).

 Grants Committees: UKRI (Ashby, Donnelly, Elliott, Ghani), Wellcome Trust (Arinaminpathy,
 Churcher, Donnelly, Elliott, Ferguson, Ghani), The Royal Society (Ferguson, Ghani), Longitude
 Prize Advisory Panel (Ghani), World Cancer Research Fund (Cross), Cancer Research UK
 (Ashby, Cross, Filippidis), British Heart Foundation (Elliott), European Commission (Fecht
 [UoA14]), NIHR (Ashby, Bottle, Cornelius, Costelloe, Greaves, Laverty, Millett, Saxena), Health
 Research Board Ireland (Ashby), Swedish Research Council (Kivipelto), European Research
 Council Advanced Grants (Middleton).

 Prizes: International Diabetes Federation Award Lecture (Gregg), American Diabetes Association
 Kelly West Award (Gregg), Robert Austin Award (Lees), Times Higher Education “World’s Most
 Influential Scientific Minds 2015” (MacMahon), Emerging Leader Award of the World Heart
 Foundation (Peters), Australian Financial Review 100 Women of Influence 2019 (Norton),
 Suffragette Science Award for Women in Mathematics (Donnelly), Royal Society of Tropical
 Medicine and Hygiene Chalmers Medal 2017 (Ghani), Zoological Society Frink Medal 2020
 (Donnelly), Finnish Neuroscientist of the Year 2018 (Kivipelto), Asian Woman of the Year Science
 Finalist 2019 (Saxena), Young Investigator Award 2019, European Atherosclerosis Society
 (Vallejo-Vas), Woman of the Year GG2 Leadership Award 2018 (Modi).

 Keynotes: CEE-ZSL Julian Huxley Memorial Lecture 2017 (Donnelly), G20 summit on digital
 health (Volz), Invited Keynote MRC Lecture Society of Toxicology (Elliott), American Heart
 Association (Elliott), Keynote Lecture, Gordon Research Conference on Malaria 2019 (Ghani),
 American Statistical Association (Ashby), World Economic Forum (Hauck), Alzheimer Association
 International Conference 2018 (Kivipelto), G7 Global Dementia Conference 2014 (Middleton).

 Editorial Boards: PLoS Medicine (Hallett), Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B
 (Donnelly), e-life (Senior Editor, Ferguson), Royal Society Interface (Ferguson), Science
 Translational Medicine (Ferguson), Gene (Lill), PLoS Biology (Riley), PLoS Neglected Tropical
 Disease (Churcher), Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine (Majeed), PLoS One (Tsilidis, Jha),
 Frontiers of Neurology (Lill), Environmental Research Letters (Ezzati), Guest Editor (Critical Care)
 New England Journal of Medicine (Finfer), Statistics in Medicine (Woodward), Women’s Health
 (Editor, Woodward), BMJ Global Health (Peters), International Journal of Cancer (Vineis),
 European Journal of Epidemiology (Vineis), Frontiers in Public Health (Editor, Vineis),
 Commissioner on the Lancet Commission on TB (Arinaminpathy), Lancet Clinical Commission on
 Diabetes (Ezzati), Lancet Commission on Non-Communicable Diseases in the Poorest Billion
 (Ezzati), Lancet Commission on Obesity (Ezzati), Lancet Commissioner for Liver Disease in the
 UK (Pinder), Editor, Epidemics (Riley), Guest Editor, Special Issue on Diagnostics Modelling,
 Nature (Ghani), Subject Editor, Oxford textbook of Clinical Nephrology (Jha), Bulletin of the World
 Health Organisation (Jha), BMJ (Saxena), BMC Medicine (Bottle), BMC Public Health (Filippidis),
 EBioMedicine (Modi).

 4g. Enabling Best Research Practice

 Our approach is described in Section 1.e. Example of independent validation of research
 methods: two COVID-19 reports (Report 9 and Report 13) have been certified as reproducible by
 CODECHECK (www.codecheck.org.uk), a collaborative project between the Universities of
 Cambridge and Munster, Germany, to increase the availability and reproducibility of code used for
 scientific research. The research findings of these two high-profile reports have also been


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 independently verified and re-published in the BMJ (led by University of Edinburgh researchers)
 and at www.turing.ml (by University of Cambridge researchers).

 4h. Collaboration with External Organisations

 Connections with the NHS, industry, government bodies and non-governmental agencies are
 maintained through honorary positions. Examples include: Dr Maria Van Kerkhove (COVID-19
 Technical Lead at WHO), Dr Valerie Delpech (Consultant Epidemiologist at Public Health
 England), Professor Jeremy Farrar (Director of The Wellcome Trust), Dr Bhargavi Rao (Infectious
 Diseases Lead, Medecins Sans Frontiere), Dr Anand Shah (Consultant Resipratory Physician at
 Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS Trust), Dr Hannah Slater (Epidemiologist, PATH), Mrs Ronke
 Akerele (Executive Director of Innovation and Transformation at Hertfordshire Partnership
 Foundation Trust), Dr Martin Block (Health Education England), Dr Sophie Coronini-Cronberg
 (Public Health Consultant, Chelsea & Westminster Hospital), Dr Sharif Ismail (Health Adviser,
 Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office), Dr Maria Kinali (Consultant Paediatric
 Neurologist, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital), Dr Sabita Uthaya (Consultant in Neonatal
 Medicine at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital), Prof. Paul Aylin (Board Member, West London
 Mental Health Trust), Prof. Azeem Majeed (Head, Public Health Directorate, ICHT).




                                                                                        Page 21
