Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds
 Unit of Assessment: 2


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Our research advances and applies methods to address major health and healthcare
 challenges. We develop and evaluate treatments, technologies and complex interventions using
 innovative mixed method, observational and trial designs. Our interdisciplinary collaborations
 harness expertise in trials, epidemiology, data sciences, behavioural and social sciences, health
 economics, and clinical disciplines. Extensive national and international collaborations, including
 low and middle-income countries, underpin our work.
 The University of Leeds UoA2 submission includes 49.6 full-time equivalent staff in the School of
 Medicine within the Faculty of Medicine and Health (FMH). Our strengths within Public Health,
 Health Services and Primary Care research unite around three main themes:
 Theme 1: Applied Health Research within the Leeds Institute of Health Sciences (LIHS);
 Theme 2: Clinical Trials Research within the Leeds Institute of Clinical Trials Research
 (LICTR); and
 Theme 3: Population Health Data Science within the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA).
 In practice, there is considerable cross-institute collaboration between these themes.


 Achievements during the census period
 This statement specifies how we have achieved goals set out in 2014:
    Establishing platforms and innovative methods for early phase clinical trials to accelerate the
     evaluation and delivery of cancer treatment;
    Promoting interdisciplinary development and evaluation of novel interventional technologies,
     biomarkers and other diagnostic tests;
    Exploiting large datasets from national disease registries, clinical audits and cohorts with
     state-of-the-art data analytics to advance the epidemiology of cancers and cancer care whilst
     expanding our cardiovascular disease portfolio;
    Leading both complex and efficient trials to evaluate complex interventions and advancing
     causal inference methods; and
    Delivering ambitious, policy-relevant research focused on population and health services
     priorities (e.g. older people and frailty, communicable disease control) across a range of
     settings (e.g. primary care, low and middle-income countries).


 Headline achievements include:
  Delivery of high-impact research across the themes, with average annual research income
    rising from £7.8m in REF2014 to £10.3m during the present period, sustainably supported by
    a diverse range of funders.
    Major investments in establishing the £3.1m Wolfson Centre for Applied Health Research
     and LIDA, which hosts the £6.9m MRC Bioinformatics Centre and the £11m ESRC
     Consumer Data Research Centre.
    Major platform awards demonstrating substantial collaboration, such as a partnership
     bringing together the Faculties of Engineering, Biological Sciences, and Medicine and Health
     to accelerate the development of infection diagnostics tools to tackle antimicrobial resistance
     (£3.8m, MRC), the UK Bowel Cancer Intelligence Hub (£3.4m, CRUK), the Leeds In Vitro
     Diagnostics Co-operative (£1.3m, NIHR), the Yorkshire Cancer Research (YCR) Early Phase
     Clinical Trials Centre (£1.4m), the Leeds Surgical MedTech Cooperative (£1.4m, NIHR), the

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Leeds CRUK Clinical Trials Unit (£2.1m, CRUK) and CONCORDE, the first early phase
     radiotherapy trials platform (£0.8m, CRUK & £0.8m, Astra Zeneca),
    A substantial portfolio of programme and large-scale trial awards, such as Community-led
     Responsive and Effective Urban Health Systems (ChoRUS, £7.9m, DFID), the Yorkshire
     Lung Screening Trial (£5.2m, YCR) and FLAIR for chronic lymphocyctic leukaemia (£3.4m,
     Abbvie).
    Partnerships in both the £9m NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) Yorkshire and
     Humber and the £4.8m NIHR Yorkshire and Humber Patient Safety Translational Research
     Centre, which bring together academics from different UoA2 themes as well as UoAs3&4.
    Strategic senior appointments comprising chairs in health economics (Bojke), primary care
     research (Richards), primary care oncology (Neal), and clinical trials research (Stocken).
     We have benefited from the University’s £100m investment to recruit internationally
     competitive future academic leaders across core disciplines (250 Great Minds), appointing
     six within UoA2 (Smith, Beeken, Ziegler, Allsop, Mulvey & Rousseau).
    1677 papers published over the census period by UoA2 staff, with 42% involving
     international collaborations (Figure 1), 25% in the top 10% of those cited worldwide, and
     52% published in the top 10% of Scopus Sources.




                                  Figure 1. Collaborative outputs.


 Research and impact strategy
 Our overarching aim is to deliver internationally leading, cutting edge and methodologically
 robust research that improves the quality, equity and efficiency of healthcare and population
 health. Our problem-based research responds to national and international research user
 priorities in addressing:
    Enduring challenges, e.g. health inequalities, managing demand with finite resources;
    Emerging challenges, e.g. multi-morbidity and frailty, in global health; and
    Emerging opportunities, e.g. innovative complex trial designs, causal inference methods.
 The scale and complexity of such challenges demands interdisciplinary partnerships within
 Leeds, such as those amongst researchers submitted in UoAs 1-5, 7, 11, 12, 14 and 19, and
 nationally and internationally. Our research is aligned with the School of Medicine strategy,
 focused on areas of international excellence and encompass the full translational pathway,
 including global health, ageing, cancer and cardiovascular disease.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We actively embed pathways to impact within our research, through strategic partnerships
 spanning patients, carers and the public, health and social care providers and commissioners,
 third sector and charitable bodies, policymakers, professional bodies, and industry. For example,
 the University co-founded the Leeds Academic Health Partnership (LAHP) in 2015, bringing
 together expertise from all the NHS organisations in Leeds, three of the city’s universities, and
 Leeds City Council. The Partnership, one of the biggest of its kind in the UK, aims to accelerate
 innovation and improve health and wellbeing by engaging academic capabilities in education
 and research with the health and social care system across the city. We can demonstrate
 complementary approaches to impact through collaborative partnerships (Figure 2), including:
    Effective end user involvement and using appropriate research designs to ensure policy and
     practice relevant findings;
    Translating research into national guidelines and care pathways;
    Collecting and analysing data to provide intelligence for improving policy and services;
    Training for service providers in health, social care and voluntary sector organisations;
    Funding knowledge mobilisation initiatives and embedding knowledge transfer throughout all
     stages of research;
    Promoting understanding and use of research through public events and the media; and
    Leading implementation research to close gaps between evidence, policy and practice.




                                  Figure 2. Approach to impact.

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Achievements by research theme
 Whilst our research is represented under three main themes (Applied Health Research,
 Clinical Trials Research, and Population Health Data Science), our interdisciplinary approach
 typically cuts across these themes and demonstrates extensive collaboration across multiple
 UoAs.
                                                       Notation: returned staff; returned,
                                                       retired or former staff with visiting
                                                       status; staff returned in other UoAs; and
                                                       non-returned early career researchers

 Theme 1: Applied Health Research
 This theme focuses on understanding problems in healthcare and health, and evaluating
 interventions to improve outcomes. We evaluate interventions targeting individual, organisation
 and system levels of healthcare. Our research emphasises pragmatic, rigorous evaluation
 designs; innovative uses of routinely collected data; and policy, public and practitioner
 partnerships from design to dissemination – collectively ensuring ‘real world’ relevance. Our
 work is grouped around Age-related Research, Global Health, Cancer and Palliative Care,
 Health Economics, and Health Services Research.
 Age-related Research (Forster, Clegg, Godfrey, Hawkins, Richards, Teale) addresses the
 challenges facing an ageing population by developing and evaluating models of care. Highlights
 include leadership of two of the world’s largest ever stroke rehabilitation trials, which
 demonstrated that neither family-led rehabilitation in a low-resource setting nor a new system of
 longer-term care were superior to usual care (UOA2-618, UOA2-617). We developed the
 electronic Frailty Index (eFI) with The Phoenix Partnership, and Universities of Birmingham and
 Bradford. The eFI reliably identifies older people with frailty without the need for resource-
 intensive clinical assessment and enables evidence-based, proactive models of integrated care
 (UOA2-2413). It has been implemented in the SystmOne and EMISWeb primary care electronic
 health record systems, which together provide around 90% UK coverage (Impact case study
 UOA2-1).
 Global Health (Mirzoev, Ebenso, Ensor, King, Mir, Walley) embeds research within national
 and global health programmes in response to changing disease patterns in low-resource
 settings, prioritising antimicrobial resistance and non-communicable diseases. Highlights include
 demonstrating the adverse impacts of health financing policies on vulnerable communities
 (UOA2-4309) and an intervention achieving sustained reductions in antibiotic prescribing in
 children (UOA2-266). Our evidence-based care package for non-communicable diseases (e.g.
 UOA2-267) has been adopted by and scaled up within national and provincial programmes in
 Pakistan, China, Nigeria, Eswatini, and Sierra Leone.
 Cancer and Palliative Care. Our cancer research (Neal, Beeken, Jones, Smith) aims to prevent
 cancer and improve outcomes after diagnosis by promoting behaviour change, and addressing
 poor cancer outcomes through earlier diagnosis using clinical, biomarker and screening
 strategies. Achievements include demonstrating that increased times to diagnosis and treatment
 in symptomatic cancers are associated with poorer outcomes (UOA2-595) and that one of four
 evidence-based interventions can reduce the socioeconomic gradient in the uptake of colorectal
 cancer screening (UOA2-3615). Our palliative care research (Bennett, Allsop, Mulvey, Ziegler)
 aims to improve pain management in the community and promote earlier access to palliative
 care. We revealed the relatively late initiation and short duration of strong opioid treatment in
 patients with cancer before death, contrasting with epidemiological data pointing to earlier onset
 of pain (UOA2-2199). Our work has received national media coverage and been integrated into
 national and international guidelines and NHS pathways (Impact case study UOA2-2).
 Health Economics (Bojke, Hulme, Longo, Meads, Mujica-Mota, Nikolova, Sagoo, Shinkins,
 Vargas-Palacios) addresses cost-effectiveness, efficiency, equity, health outcomes and
 preferences in health care provision. Our methods span applied health econometrics, test
 evaluation using both trial-based and model-based economic evaluations, health economic

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 decision modelling, and evidence synthesis. Achievements include demonstrating that
 mechanical chest compression did not improve 30-day survival compared with manual
 compressions in out-of-hospital cardiac arrests (UOA2-2103), ‘if-then’ implementation plans
 reduced smoking initiation cost-effectively in adolescents (UOA2-2435), and intensive follow-up
 following resection for colorectal cancer was less cost-effective compared to no scheduled
 follow-up (UOA2-3208).
 Health Services Research (Hewison, Ahmed, Alderson, Bewick, Brennan, Bryant, Foy,
 West) evaluates ways of improving healthcare delivery and outcomes, including healthcare
 systems, technologies, psychosocial interventions, and implementation. For example, we
 collaborated with UoA1 colleagues to synthesise a research framework for patient monitoring,
 spanning the full range of the biomarker pipeline from marker discovery to patient benefit
 (UOA2-58). We demonstrated how to recruit and retain adults with learning disability into a trial
 of supported self-management for diabetes by making reasonable adjustments to intervention
 and research processes (UOA2-762), changes now incorporated into the NHS RightCare
 Pathway and Diabetes UK advice for professionals. We worked with the National Screening
 Committee to improve patient-centred prenatal and genetic testing policies affecting antenatal
 care of over 3.5 million women in England and Wales during 2014-19 (Impact case study UOA2-
 3). In implementation science (with Lawton and Benn in UoA4), we demonstrated that a theory-
 based multifaceted intervention cost-effectively reduced high-risk prescribing in primary care
 (UOA2-2185); we subsequently collaborated with clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) across
 Yorkshire and Humber to address problematic opioid and antibiotic prescribing.


 Theme 2: Clinical Trials Research
 We design and execute internationally leading, innovative and robust multi-centre clinical trials
 and applied research into the effectiveness, equity, and value for money of healthcare
 interventions. LICTR is a top performing NIHR Evaluation, Trials and Studies Coordinating
 Centre Clinical Trials Unit and is UKCRC-registered and National Cancer Research Institute
 accredited. We provide multi-disciplinary academic leadership in clinical trials research, deliver
 early through to late-phase high-quality trials, and advance trial methodology. Over this REF
 census period, LICTR has grown with a portfolio across UoAs 1-4 totalling £171m of external
 income, and recruitment of 24,327 patients in 73 trials. LICTR spans three divisions: Cancer;
 Complex Interventions; and Surgical, Diagnostic and Device Interventions.
 Cancer (Brown J, Brown SR, Cairns, Howard, with Cook (Gordon), Hillmen, Sebag-Montefiore
 & Seligmann in UoA1) includes portfolios in interventions (investigational medicinal products and
 radiotherapy) and in haematological cancers (multiple myeloma, chronic lymphocyctic
 leukaemia) and solid cancers (breast, colorectal, lung, urology, gastroesophageal, anal).
 Early Phase trials work involves three programmes: (i) the Concept and Access Research
 Programme supports a comprehensive national network delivering early phase myeloma trials;
 (ii) the Yorkshire Cancer Research Early Phase Clinical Trials Centre, a Yorkshire-wide
 collaboration encompassing statisticians, methodologists, laboratory scientists and clinicians to
 deliver national early phase cancer trials; and (iii) CONCORDE, the first early phase platform
 worldwide to evaluate radiotherapy and drug combinations in patients with lung cancer, in a
 major collaboration between academia and industry. There is considerable leverage of industry
 partnership funding to improve the translational pipeline through access to and early phase
 evaluation of novel and repurposed cancer treatments. Late phase trials include well-established
 portfolios on haematological cancers and solid tumours. Highlights include a series of trials
 (Myeloma VII,IX,X,XI,XI+) incorporating multi-stage randomisations for initial therapy regimes
 and relapse treatment, which have influenced NICE and International Myeloma Working Group
 guidance and contributed to improved myeloma survival (e.g. UOA2-2323, UOA2-2325).
 Myeloma XI led to the licensing of lenalidomide as post-transplant maintenance therapy by both
 the US Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency in 2016.
 Complex Interventions (Farrin, Collinson, Cundill, Walwyn with multiple Theme 1&3
 colleagues, House in UoA3, and Cottrell, Guthrie, Bryant M in UoA4) designs and delivers both
 early-phase intervention development and definitive, large-scale, national trials.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We evaluate complex rehabilitation, self-management and behavioural interventions, as well as
 complex drug regimens, across various health and social care settings. Individual or group-level
 interventions involve people living with stroke, ageing and frailty, mental and physical co-
 morbidity, obesity and cancer, while implementation strategies mainly target organisations and
 professionals. Richards & Farrin established the Leeds Unit for Complex Intervention
 Development (LUCID) in 2019, a methodological research group to advance the development,
 optimisation and evaluation of complex healthcare interventions.
 Highlights include the SHIFT trial, demonstrating that standardised and manualised family
 therapy yields no benefit over usual care in mental health services for young people following
 self-harm (UOA2-1690). In the largest, multicentre, stroke rehabilitation trial to combine timed
 administration of a masked investigational medicinal product (dopamine) with physical therapy
 sessions, we demonstrated no improvement in walking after stroke, and identified key lessons
 for future rehabilitation trials investigating drug effects on recovery (UOA2-1691).
 Surgical Interventions, Diagnostics and Devices (Stocken, Brown J, Brown S, Cairns,
 Rousseau, Sharples, with Jayne, Subramanian, Scott, Coletta, Pandit, Greenwood J in UoA1,
 Nixon, Coleman, and Nelson in UoA3, and Valdastri in UoA12) was established in 2018 to
 integrate the expanding LICTR portfolios of trials encompassing colorectal and orthopaedic
 surgery, musculoskeletal disease, cardiovascular disease and diabetes, and skin and wounds
 research.
 Our portfolio includes multi-arm, multi-stage trials. Amongst highlights, CEMARC-2
 demonstrated that cardiovascular magnetic resonance reduced unnecessary angiography
 compared to NICE guideline-directed diagnostics in patients with suspected angina, without
 affecting major adverse cardiovascular events (UOA2-708). ROLAAR found the safety and
 quality of robotic surgery is comparable to laparoscopic rectal cancer resection undertaken by
 experienced surgeons (UOA2-2102). ROLARR clarified costs and the human factors for optimal
 implementation, informing the design and evaluation of more versatile, affordable robotic
 systems (Impact case study UOA2-4 with Jayne in UoA1). Based on substantial design and
 delivery experience, we developed a live, accessible International Surgical Trials Toolkit.


 Theme 3: Population Health Data Science
 We develop, adapt and apply novel data scientific methods to better understand and exploit
 large and complex health data. We inform and improve data analytic practices, study design and
 policy using a mix of descriptive, predictive, and causal methods to evaluate determinants of
 population health, aetiology, prognosis, treatment effects, and healthcare system performance.
 These activities benefit from the interdisciplinary environment of LIDA, a platform that brings
 together staff with interests in data science from all university faculties (see Infrastructure). We
 collaborate extensively with clinical and epidemiological colleagues in UoA1 and methodological
 researchers in UoAs 4, 11 & 14. Population Health Data Science addresses two substantive
 areas: Exploitation of Large Health Datasets and Causal Inference Methodology.
 Exploitation of Large Health Datasets (Gale, Barrett, Feltbower, Greenwood D, West, Morris,
 Parslow). We make efficient use of large-scale observational and randomised trial data to
 deliver population-based studies, often involving linkage of electronic health records from
 primary and secondary care, to understand environmental, genetic and behavioural
 determinants of heath, and to examine the relationship between quality of healthcare and health
 outcomes. Our work in cardiovascular disease, cancer, and paediatrics and young adults relies
 on extensive cross-School collaborations and builds on national and international partnerships.
 In cardiovascular disease, (Gale, West with Hall M in UoA1) we used the UK nationwide heart
 attack register, Myocardial Ischaemic National Audit Project (MINAP), to understand reasons for
 10-year temporal improvements in clinical outcomes following heart attacks (UOA2-1044). We
 reported a potential lack of effectiveness of beta-blockers after heart attack in patients without
 heart failure, which set the stage for several international trials (UOA2-800). We demonstrated
 greater between-hospital variation in 30-day mortality for heart attacks in the UK than in
 Sweden, which was associated with higher variation in adherence to treatment guidelines
                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (UOA2-1043). Our research has influenced European Society of Cardiology Guidelines and led
 to international quality indicators for acute myocardial infarction.
 Our cancer collaborations have evaluated both genetic and environmental factors underlying
 aetiology and prognosis (Barrett, Greenwood D, with Newton-Bishop in UoA1). We
 demonstrated that multiple genetic predictors of telomere length were strongly associated with
 melanoma risk, the first time this has been shown for any cancer (UOA2-1480). We found a
 dose-response relationship between fruit and vegetable intakes and reduced risks of cancer,
 cardiovascular disease, and all-cause mortality (UOA2-590), and showed that obesity is
 associated with poorer overall and breast cancer survival (UOA2-587).
 Our research provides an empirical basis for the development and monitoring of cancer
 management policies, linking the results of clinical trials to policy formulation at the population
 level (Morris, with Hall G, & Carrigan in UoA1). We have quantified effects on outcomes for
 aspects of services not amenable to randomisation, e.g. delay in therapy, type of treatment
 centre. We revealed wide variation in post-colonoscopy colorectal cancer rates across NHS
 providers in England (UOA2-781), and demonstrated that higher hospital-level recruitment to
 clinical trials was associated with improved outcomes for all patients and not just those in the
 trials – used by the NIHR campaign, ‘Clinical research is everyone’s future,’ to promote
 participation in clinical trials (UOA2-779).
 Paediatric epidemiology (Feltbower, Parslow with Glaser in UoA1 & Stark in UoA3)
 encompasses co-leadership of the Paediatric Intensive Care Audit Network (see Collaborations)
 and using unique database linkages to identify the cumulative burden of long-term multimorbidity
 within the childhood, teenage and young adult cancer population. We undertook the first
 childhood and young adult cancer registry linkage to hospital episode statistics, quantifying the
 increased risks of cerebrovascular disease in a national cohort of long-term cancer survivors
 (UOA2-680). We led the development of the primary exposure measure for the largest cohort
 study of teenage and young adult cancer (BRIGHTLIGHT) and highlighted the positive impact of
 specialist care on quality of life and survival (UOA2-4299). Our research has brought about
 changes in service configurations within and beyond the UK, improving patient survival and
 satisfaction (Impact case study UOA3-3 with Stark).
 Causal Inference Methodology (Gilthorpe, Ellison with Tennant in UoA3, de Kamps in UoA11,
 Norman & Heppenstall in UoA14) pursues interdisciplinary research across computing and
 geography that translates developments in data scientific theory to applied population health.
 We analyse large, complex, longitudinal, and non-experimental data for both prediction and
 causal explanation, highlighting important differences between these. Our problem-driven
 embrace of novel and emerging causal inference methods within observational research is
 changing the field of applied population health. We clarified causal interpretations of
 compositional data, for example, within nutrition research (UOA2-1337), highlighted the risks of
 selection bias in the analysis of childhood leukaemia (UOA2-2547), and revealed problems with
 conditioning on the outcome in longitudinal research (UOA2-1336). We led on producing
 guidance for the DAGitty R package for Directed Acyclic Graphs in observational research
 (UOA2-2545), and reviewed and made further recommendations on their application and
 reporting (UOA2-4323).


 Plans for the next five years
 We will tackle major health priorities aligned with the School of Medicine strategy through
 research spanning Themes 1-3 and other UoAs, especially in:
    Global health, leveraging the Global Challenges Research Fund to strengthen and extend
     interdisciplinary collaboration across the University.
    Ageing, consolidating Leeds as a major centre for age-related research, expanding our
     international role within stroke rehabilitation and recovery research, and leading major
     clinical trials.
    Cancer, developing and evaluating strategies across the spectrum of cancer prevention,
     screening, early detection, survivorship, and palliative care. We will strengthen our

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     international leadership in multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and develop
     a portfolio of world-leading clinical trials focused on new agent radiotherapy combinations
     and technological advances.
    Cardiovascular disease, using population-based data to identify opportunities to design and
     evaluate interventions in efficient large-scale trials.
 We will continue to promote interdisciplinary research by leveraging the infrastructure and
 capacity of major investments, such as LIDA and the Wolfson Centre, and strengthening
 collaborations across institutes. For example, with Computing (Frangi in UoA11), we will develop
 in silico modelling for more efficient research pathways and demonstrate opportunities with the
 clinical trials community.
 We will advance and apply our work in key methodological fields, especially:
    In clinical trials, by increasing use of routine data to enhance trials design, efficiency,
     conduct and analysis. We will exploit trials platforms, allowing multiple comparisons
     simultaneously and moving seamlessly from early through to late phase trials, with rich
     associated translational analyses allowing biomarker guided treatments and reverse
     translation in cancer.
    In intervention design, by developing statistical and mixed methods for the development,
     optimisation, and definitive evaluation of surgical, diagnostic, device and complex
     interventions.
    In data sciences, by building upon existing strengths in causal inference (and prediction)
     methodologies to enhance the impact of existing exploitation of large routine datasets
     amongst UoA2 and other research groups based in LIDA and the Wolfson Centre. This will
     also involve expanding these methodological capabilities into health-related AI research (with
     Computing), healthy living through research into Smart Cities (with Geography), and
     advancing quasi-experimental designs to evaluate models of care.
    In health economics, by maintaining and strengthening methods for our significant portfolio
     of economic evaluations, health technology assessments, evidence synthesis, applied
     econometrics and test evaluations.
 We will further develop our thriving research environment through:
    Securing grants from major government, research council, charity and industry funders and
     target longer and larger awards to ensure sustainable research income.
    Leveraging policy-maker, professional, public and academic partnerships to maximise the
     relevance and reach of our research.
    Taking a strategic approach to public and patient engagement, by building sustainable
     partnerships with existing groups, increasing diversity, and developing novel methods of
     involvement (see Collaborations).
    Identifying and developing future research leaders by winning high quality doctoral,
     postdoctoral and senior training fellowships and mentoring our cohorts of earlier career
     researchers, University Academic Fellows, and clinical academic trainees (see People).
    Building on our Athena SWAN Charter Gold Award to promote a diverse, equitable and
     inclusive research culture.




                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People


 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Recruitment and retention. Our staffing strategy promotes long-term academic success and
 financial sustainability. We have augmented capacity in core methodological skills that underpin
 interdisciplinary research through strategic chair appointments in health economics (Bojke),
 primary care research (Richards), primary care oncology (Neal), and clinical trials research
 (Stocken), and internal promotions to chairs in psychological and social medicine (Bryant),
 geriatric medicine (Clegg), international health policy and systems (Mirzoev, 1st August 2020),
 cancer epidemiology (Morris), and cardiovascular medicine (Gale). We made seven internal
 appointments to associate professor (Alderson, Brennan, Brown SR, Cairns, King, Meads,
 Mir). In Clinical Trials Research, we plan two professorships through internal promotion and the
 appointment of an associate professor to further develop and sustain our team of research
 fellows, PhD students and trialists.
 Research fellowships. Through the University’s 250 Great Minds scheme, we appointed six
 University Academic Fellows: Ziegler, Smith, Beeken, Mulvey, and Allsop, funded through the
 £4m Yorkshire Cancer Research (YCR) Fellowship Platform (led by Stewart in UoA1 with
 Brown J, Meads, Hulme, Morris); and Rousseau, leading mixed methods research on
 healthcare technology within Clinical Trials Research. Three have since been promoted to
 associate professor (Ziegler, Smith, Beeken).
 Feltbower (with Glaser in UoA1) secured a £2.5m Candlelighters Trust award to appoint four
 Clinical Research Fellowships (Amin, Friend, Hughes & Milner) focusing on long-term health
 outcomes and treatment toxicity associated with childhood, teenage and young adult cancer.
 In 2018, the University of Leeds became a partner in the Alan Turing Institute, the UK’s national
 institute for data science and artificial intelligence, reflecting our investment in data science. The
 University provided a matched investment of £5m in securing 24 prestigious Turing Fellowships
 (Gilthorpe, Morris, including Tennant in UoA3 and Heppenstall in UoA14) to address a range of
 ambitious challenges facing science, society and the economy.
 We encourage and support staff to apply for prestigious and competitive personal research
 fellowships to develop their independence and the vitality of their research groups. Successes
 comprise a Wellcome Trust Postdoctoral Fellowship (Hall M), two NIHR Advanced Fellowships
 (Smith, Pini), eight NIHR Doctoral Fellowships (Corrigan, Downey, Drinkwater, Howard,
 Hughes, Paton, Smith, Wilkins), an NIHR Knowledge Mobilisation Fellowship (Ward), five NIHR
 Clinical Trials and Research Methods Fellowships (Alderson, Backhouse, Emmerson, Gale,
 Kelley), an NIHR Pre-Doctoral Fellowship (Everett), an MRC Skills Development Fellowship
 (Wilson), a Cheney Fellowship (Blazer), and a Leverhulme Fellowship (Tubeuf). Clinical Trials
 Research has two UKRI Innovation/Rutherford Fund Fellowships aligned to MRC Industrial
 Strategy topics and connected to HDRUK.
 Clinical academic training. The School of Medicine runs a thriving integrated clinical academic
 programme, providing training to NIHR Academic Clinical Fellows, Academic Clinical Lecturers
 and Clinician Scientists. The UoA2-relevant research strand, overseen by Bennett as Deputy
 Academic Training Programme Director, appointed seven Academic Clinical Fellows and two
 Clinical Lecturers spanning general practice, palliative medicine and care of the elderly (Jones,
 Alderson – now appointed associate professor).
 We offer an in-depth postgraduate programme on Health Data Analytics (Gilthorpe, Ellison,
 with Hogg & de Kamps in UoA11 and Hall G in UoA1, £1m, HDRUK & NHS Digital) and an
 annual Alan Turing Institute-endorsed Summer School in Causal Inference, both of which
 receive excellent feedback. Similarly, for our Health Research programme (Bewick), over 90%
 of 34 respondents to the University’s 2018-19 Postgraduate Taught Programme Survey agree
 the programme is intellectually stimulating, provides them with opportunities to apply what they
 learnt, and report high levels of satisfaction with the quality of the course. These programmes
 are open to all earlier career researchers and health service staff. For clinical academic trainees,
 senior academic staff regularly attend and run sessions at twice-yearly residential trainee

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 meetings, Inspiring the Next Generation. We have a guided pathway for promising medical
 academics, from intercalated BSc’s through to Academic Foundation Year posts, which lead
 onto specialist academic training opportunities.
 We recognise the need to grow capacity in shortage clinical academic specialities (e.g. general
 practice). We have secured NIHR Research Capability Funding from our CCGs (£0.4m since
 2014) to fund protected time for early career primary care clinicians to develop fellowship bids
 and to pump-prime project bids. Successes include an NIHR In-Practice Fellowship (Grice) and
 an In-Practice Fellow progressing to an NIHR Doctoral Research Fellowship (Drinkwater). Our
 funded programmes also include capacity building, such as a CRUK CanTest doctoral fellowship
 (Bradley).
 We frequently supervise and mentor medical and allied professionals beyond UoA2, e.g. NIHR
 Research Professorships (Catto, urology & Jayne, surgery), an NIHR/HEE Senior Clinical
 Lectureship (Siddle, podiatry), an NIHR Doctoral Research Fellowship (Kenny, dentistry).
 Training and continuing professional development. All new academics are supported through the
 Organisational Development and Professional Learning (ODPL) unit, which offers courses on
 mentoring, attracting research income, applying for funding, partnership with industry,
 leadership, and commercialisation, and the University’s Next Generation Researcher
 programme.
 We prioritise the development of early career investigators through:
    Internal mentorship within a University scheme and external mentorship - including the
     Academy of Medical Sciences and Society for Social Medicine and Population Health
     schemes;
    Promotion advisors provide one-to-one guidance;
    NIHR@Leeds Early Career Research Network – including a key aim of facilitating women in
     clinical academic careers;
    School of Medicine Early Careers Group;
    Introduction of a new guarantee of 10 days’ development activities for all early career
     researchers from 2019-20; and
    Academic Development Fund – awarding researchers up to £15k each to maintain career
     trajectory during or following extended leave for family reasons or illness. Since 2016, FMH
     has made seven awards to UoA2 staff returning from maternity leave.
 The University’s periodic Careers in Research Online Surveys generated a response rate of
 26% (Russell Group: 27%) from the 937 postdoctoral staff with ‘research’ in their job description.
 Over 2013-17, the percentage of researchers finding formal staff reviews useful increased from
 45% to 61% and awareness of Athena Swan doubled to 90%, whilst 90% would now
 recommend the University as an employer.
 In response to a review of leadership behaviours across the University, ODPL developed a
 Leadership Excellence Behaviours Framework to foster an effective working environment.
 Twenty-one staff (16 women) in UoA2 have accessed an associated training programme
 launched in 2016, which targets personal, team and organisational-level leadership skills.
 Academic development and progression. We hold structured annual academic review meetings
 with staff focusing on achievements, areas requiring CV development, collaborations, and
 applications for promotion and external awards. The discussion allows for self-reflection on
 performance and aligns 3-year plans for research, teaching and impact to School priorities. Joint
 meetings with NHS colleagues for clinical academics align service and academic objectives. Our
 annual ‘Rewards & Recognition Scheme’ provides discretionary payments for staff outstanding
 performance (UoA2: 42 awarded).




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Training and supervision of PGR students
 There were 165 (97.19FTE) Research Doctoral Degree awards during the assessment period.
 All PhD students have two to four co-supervisors, ensuring input from different research
 disciplines.
 Procedures are in place to recruit high quality postgraduate researchers. Following written
 applications, a panel comprising the supervisory team and an independent member interviews
 all candidates using standardised questions. We encourage and assist potential PGRs to apply
 for external funding to support their studies. Our PhD external funding streams comprise NIHR
 (8), research councils (4), overseas governments (26), NHS (12), and charities (e.g. CRUK; 6).
 In addition, the ESRC-accredited White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (a collaboration
 across the social sciences at the Universities of Leeds, Sheffield, York, Bradford, Sheffield
 Hallam, Hull, and Manchester Metropolitan) funded 5 PhDs and the University funded 77 PhDs
 (including Alumni and Endowed Scholarships). Twenty-one were undertaken by staff, indicating
 our institutional commitment to capacity building.
 The School of Medicine has a strong culture for PGR support, augmenting the Doctoral College
 (see REF5a). PGRs participate in our Early Career Research group and special interest groups
 (e.g. a Qualitative Research Group), and have mutual support via a ‘buddy system.’ Staff
 regularly contribute to PhD DisCos (Discussions Communities) organised by PGRs themselves
 and which have covered a range of topics, such as research skills, ethical issues, and
 budgeting. A postgraduate committee, with PGR representation in membership, regularly
 reviews student experience and arrangements for PGR development. Each PGR has annual
 funding to support specific training and conference attendance. PGRs are encouraged to take up
 teaching opportunities for their career development and to apply for Associate Fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy.
 We integrate both clinical and scientific PGR students into our research activities, contributing to
 a lively and productive research environment. Institutes and research groupings in the School
 run excellent seminar series with international speakers, with PGRs often contributing to seminar
 organisation.
 Sixteen out of 21 doctoral graduates responding to a survey had progressed to or within
 academic positions. The 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (116 responses from
 School of Medicine students) indicated high levels of satisfaction with supervisor skills and
 subject knowledge (93%), supervisor feedback (88%), development of research skills (91%),
 professional development (89%), and overall research degree experience (81%). The Faculty
 Graduate School ensures high quality financial, technical, infrastructural and academic support
 and is reviewed by an independent academic panel every five years. Our 2019 review
 highlighted strong engagement in research culture, facilitated remote working, and excellent
 interdisciplinary awareness of opportunities for cross-Faculty working.


 Equality and diversity
 Within the School of Medicine 42% of PGRs and 17% of staff do not identify as White British
 (comparable to 18% of the total population of Leeds). Fifty-nine percent of our academic and
 research staff identify as female. Out of 21 promotions to G8 Lecturer or above since 2014, 14
 identified as female, three as BAME, and none as disabled. The School has taken significant
 steps in promoting equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I) since 2014, maximising the potential
 of all staff to deliver excellent research. In 2020 we appointed the first Associate Dean for
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in the University (Bryant).
 The School secured an Athena SWAN Charter Gold Award in 2019, building upon Bronze in
 2013 and Silver in 2016. Nationally we are the first medical school to achieve a Gold Award. The
 School ED&I Committee was convened in 2016 to address broader equality issues and consider
 the impacts of intersectionality between gender and other protected characteristics. ED&I
 representatives have direct access to Institute and School Senior Management Teams,
 embedding equality at every level of School business.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Current priorities and action plans for staff and students centre on improving mental health and
 well-being, ensuring inclusion and equality for those identifying as LGBTQ+, improving
 opportunities and access for those with a disability, and identifying barriers to career progression
 associated with ethnicity and religion. The School is working in partnership with students to
 implement the BMA Charter to prevent and address racial harassment in medical schools.
 The School has invested significantly in promoting equality. We have sponsored eight places
 since 2015 on career development programmes such as Aurora (Leadership Foundation for
 Higher Education), to support women with leadership aspirations in academia. We financially
 support the Leeds Female Leaders Network in partnership with the Leeds Teaching Hospitals
 NHS Trust (LTHT). The network has over 800 members across both organisations and
 evaluations demonstrate its career development value.
 We were the first university nationally to initiate a reciprocal agreement with the local NHS to
 honour terms and conditions for all clinical staff on the Integrated Training Pathway. This
 protects clinical trainees’ benefits, e.g. rights to maternity, paternity or adoption leave. It is now
 national and externally recognised good practice. Further initiatives include:
    Enhanced flexible working provision, including guaranteeing staff who reduce their hours that
     they can return to their original hours on request within five years;
    Extension of fixed-term contracts to the end of maternity leave to ensure access to
     redeployment and other support;
    Facilities to support women returning from maternity leave to continue breastfeeding;
    Raising staff and student awareness of how to identify and report unacceptable behaviour,
     including sexual and racial harassment. The School led on the University’s new staff Code of
     Conduct and mandatory training addressing these issues;
    Career coaching for staff seeking promotion to improve representation of women at senior
     levels. During the REF2021 period there has been an equal number of female and male
     applications to professor and an equal success rate.
 We are committed to research-informed ED&I activities. Research by social scientists in the
 School informed the 2017 NIHR Review of Training. While women were as likely as men to be
 awarded senior NIHR fellowships once they had applied, fewer females applied, and non-
 medical clinical academics (mostly female) were least likely to apply. This led to the convening
 of a national working group and commissioned multi-funder research (£216k) to address the lack
 of senior female clinical (medical and allied professions) academics across the UK.
 Our ED&I strategy for the next five years focuses on three priorities:
 1. Creating parity of career development for staff on fixed-term contracts and moves towards
    more sustainable careers for researchers. This includes enabling staff on open-ended, fixed
    funded contracts to supervise students and become grant investigators, and greater use of
    permanent contracts where appropriate, e.g. following University Academic Fellowships.
 2. Understanding the impacts on careers of gender, race and disability. We work with the
    University and BAME networks on a programme of staff consultation. We ran focus groups
    with Black women to identify obstacles to career development. Mentorship was regarded as
    important and we have joined forces with other medical schools to pilot a cross-university
    intersectional mentoring scheme.
 3. Increasing the proportion of female and BAME clinical academics in senior roles. We have
    appointed a Clinical Professor (Aijan in UoA1) to work with NHS partners and the NIHR
    Academy and champion this priority.
 Since 2014, we have made major strides forward in promoting a more diverse, equitable and
 inclusive research environment at Leeds. Our strategic ED&I goals are embedded in the 2019
 School Strategy and closely align with the University’s Equality & Inclusion Framework and the
 Race Equality Framework.




                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Income
 Average annual research income rose from £7.8m in REF2014 to £10.3m over this current
 period, coming mainly from NIHR (£26.1m total over census period), UK Central
 Government/local health (£11.9m), charities (£16.3m), industry (£10.2m), BIS Research
 Councils (£4.9m), and EU government (£1.5m). Annual research income averaged £208k per
 submitted staff FTE. Major awards (over £1m) from NIHR include 10 PGfAR programmes, 11
 HTA trials, five EME trials, four HS&DR studies, and four centre or other programme awards.
 Our cancer portfolio includes nine CRUK and five YCR awards.
 Leadership of large programme and trial awards: personalised care planning in frailty
 (PROSPER; Clegg, Teale, Foy, Hulme, West, Cundill, Farrin, £2.8m, PGfAR); extended
 rehabilitation for frailty (HERO; Clegg, Forster, Hulme, Cundill, Farrin, £2m, HTA);
 communicable and non-communicable disease in low-income settings (Walley, King, £2m,
 DFID); the Yorkshire Lung Screening Trial (Neal, Shinkins, £5.2m, YCR); reducing sedentary
 behaviour after stroke (RECREATE; Forster, Farrin, £3m, PGfAR); health status and pain in
 advanced cancer (RESOLVE; Bennett, £2.3m, YCR); a portfolio of Global Challenge Research
 Fund grants (Ensor, Mirzoev, King, Hicks, Ebenso, Mir, Walley, totalling £1.9m, UKRI);
 GRACE risk score impact on non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome outcomes (Gale,
 £1.1m, BHF); improving care transitions in heart failure (Gale, Farrin, Alderson, Longo, £2.3m,
 PGfAR); a UK Bowel Cancer Intelligence Hub (Morris, Barrett, £3.4m, CRUK); multidisciplinary
 team effects on bowel cancer outcomes (Morris, £1.5m, YCR); the Bowel Cancer Improvement
 Programme (Morris with Quirke in UoA1, Alderson, £2.2m, YCR).
 Major partners on collaborative awards: community-responsive, effective urban health systems
 in low-resource settings (Mirzoev, Ensor, King, Hicks, £7.9m, DFID); the ARC Yorkshire and
 Humber (Clegg, Forster, Foy, Farrin, Richards, West, Teale, Bojke, £9m, NIHR); CanTest
 (Neal, £5m, CRUK); Policy Research Unit on Cancer Awareness, Screening and Early
 Diagnosis (Neal, £4.7m, NIHR); Aspirin for Cancer Prevention Collaboration (AsCaP; Smith,
 £5m, CRUK); Patient Safety Translational Research Centre (Clegg, Bojke, Foy, £3m, NIHR);
 infection diagnostics to reduce antibiotic misuse (West, Bojke, Shinkins, £3.1m, MRC); the
 Leeds In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative (Shinkins, Sagoo; £1.3m, NIHR); the Global Research
 Group for Surgical Technologies (Brown, Cundill, King, Ensor, Shinkins, £2m, NIHR);
 CanGene CanVar (Morris, £5m, CRUK); the interplay between cancer and heart disease (Gale,
 £1.4m, BHF); personalised risk prediction and prevention of sudden cardiac death after
 myocardial infarction (Gale, £1.7m EU); PICANet (Parslow, Feltbower, £1.8m, HQIP); the
 Application of functional MRI (AFiRM, Gilthorpe, £2m, EME); Innovation for value added oral
 care (Gilthorpe, £5.5m, EU Horizon 2020).
 Partners in large programme and trial awards: assisted reproductive treatment (West, £1.7m,
 EME); amitriptyline for irritable bowel syndrome (ATLANTIS; Farrin, Alderson, Foy, £1.8m,
 HTA); liaison psychiatry services and outcomes (Hewison, West, Hulme, £1.1.m, HS&DR); hip
 and knee arthroplasty follow-up (Hewison, West, £1.1m HS&DR); therapy for repeated self-
 harm (FRESH START; Brennan, Bryant, Farrin, £2.5m, PGfAR); self-harm treatment (SAFE;
 Brennan, Farrin, Bojke, £2m, HTA); exercise in prostate cancer (Hewison, Farrin, £2.5m,
 PGfAR); transitions of care (Foy, £2.3m, PGfAR); diabetes in severe mental illness
 (DIAMONDS; Alderson, £2.5m, PGfAR); comprehensive geriatric assessment at home
 (Godfrey, £2.3m, HS&DR); triage for delirium (Godfrey, £1.1.m, HTA); Contact tracing in care
 homes using digital technology (Farrin, Bojke, £1.5m, HS&DR); advanced colorectal cancer
 (ARIEL; Meads, Howard, £2m, EME); alleviating breathlessness in cancer (Better-B; Brown S,
 EU, £2.9m); the gut microbiome (DANTE Microbiome; Cairns, £2.5m, CRUK); metastatic
 melanoma (DANTE; Meads, £2.5m, HTA); colorectal cancer recurrence (EMT2; Bojke, £1.5m,
 YCR); chronic lymphocyctic leukaemia (FLAIR; Howard, Meads, £3.4m, Abbvie & STATIC;
 Meads, £2.9m, HTA); urothelial cancer (GUSTO, Cairns, Howard, £2.9m, EME); colorectal
 anastomotic leak prevention (Brown J, Meads, £1.9m, EME); knee arthroplasty (KARDS;
 Stocken, Longo, £1.8m, HTA); rheumatoid arthritis (MICA, Stocken, £1.2, MRC); diabetic foot

                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ulcers (CODIF2; Longo, Brown S, £1.7m HTA); laparoscopic versus open colorectal surgery
 (LACES 2, Stocken, Meads, Brown J, £1.8m, HTA); colorectal liver metastases (LAVA, Brown
 J, £1.7m, HTA); ulcerative colitis (MODULATE, Farrin, £1.5m, HTA); Myeloma XII (ACCoRD;
 Cairns, £1.4m, CRUK); Myeloma XIV (FITNEsS; £1.8m, Cairns, Meads, CRUK & £1.3
 Takeda); Myeloma XV (RADAR; Cairns, £1.5m CRUK & £1.9m, Amgen); thyroid surgery
 (NIFTY; Brown J, £1m, EME); return to work after stroke (RETAKE; Farrin, £1.8m, HTA); return
 to work after trauma (RoWTATe; Farrin, £2.4m, PGfAR); irritable bowel syndrome (TRITON,
 Farrin, £2.1m, EME); psoriatic arthritis (TUDOR; Brown S, £2m, PGfAR); specialist care for
 teenage and young adult cancer (Feltbower, £2.2m, PGfAR).


 Infrastructure and facilities
 The School of Medicine has completed a £36m investment programme of refurbishment and
 reorganisation. Applied Health Research, Clinical Trials Research, and Population Health Data
 Science are all now co-located in high-quality accommodation within the same building, linked to
 LTHT.
 LIDA brings together methodologists and applied researchers in data science to develop and
 exploit the latest technologies to advance human and societal health and wellbeing. Established
 in 2014, with major investments from the MRC, the ESRC and the University (including £4.6m
 over 2018-21 from UoL), LIDA has developed state-of-the-art physical and IT infrastructures to
 raise the bar in standards of data quality, access, protection and exploitation. We are currently
 increasing storage and computer-processing capabilities to provide state-of-the-art cloud
 computing and strengthen research capacity across the data sciences. LIDA houses 36
 research centres, programmes and projects, enabling £61m research across the University, and
 engages a community of 280 people via research programmes, collaborations, and seminars.
 The groups include staff from the Schools of Medicine, Computing and Mathematics, the
 Faculties of Biological Sciences and Law, Health Data Research UK, the Consumer Data
 Research Centre, the Institute for Transport Studies, and the Centre for Immersive
 Technologies. Growing through support from local and national collaborators, LIDA is becoming
 a major powerhouse for research, civic engagement and business growth in the North of
 England and beyond. LIDA also houses nationally funded research and training programmes
 including Connected Health Cities, Centres of Excellence in Digital Pathology and Imaging, the
 EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in AI for Health, and our Alan Turing Institute Fellowships.
 The Connected Yorkshire database has already linked routinely collected data from education,
 health and social care for 1.4 m residents and shown the power of such data in improving health
 service delivery (e.g. the electronic Frailty Index).
 We have a longstanding collaborative relationship with the Bradford Institute for Health
 Research (BIHR). The latest development in that relationship is the Wolfson Centre, a £3.1m
 facility launched in 2019 to bring together researchers from the Universities of Leeds and
 Bradford with clinicians from Bradford Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (with £1m
 matched by UoL). It brings together a critical mass of applied health researchers (including
 Clegg & Forster) to explore holistic approaches to improving health outcomes and take
 advantage of a world class infrastructure. BIHR houses one of the world’s most important
 longitudinal cohort studies, Born in Bradford - a unique resource for exploring how
 socioeconomic factors and ethnicity interact in determining child health and educational
 trajectories.
 Leeds hosts two NIHR Medtech and In vitro diagnostics Co-operatives. The NIHR Leeds In Vitro
 Diagnostics Co-operative supports diagnostics developers in the design and validation of new
 diagnostic tests. It has leveraged over £52m non-commercial and over £10m commercial
 funding, provided feedback on or assisted with the development of over 34 in vitro diagnostic
 devices, connected with over 250 companies, and provided access to expertise in health
 economics (Shinkins, Sagoo), clinical trials, informatics and multi-disciplinary pathology. Work
 with Neal includes the establishment of a primary care ‘TestBed’ facilitating recruitment to
 studies of in vitro diagnostics, managed electronically and fully digitally integrated into the Leeds
 Care Record and the hospital laboratory. The NIHR Surgical MedTech Co-operative supports

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the development of medical technologies in the fields of colorectal, vascular and
 hepatopancreaticobiliary surgery, drawing upon our expertise in clinical trials (Brown J) and
 health economics (Shinkins), as well as Engineering. The Co-operative provides a platform for
 early phase mechanistic trials of surgical and devices and developing methods for progression
 to definitive trials (Stocken, Walwyn).
 The Centre for Responsive Healthtech Innovation is a partnership between the University and
 LTHT. It brings different disciplines together to develop new medical technologies that deliver
 better diagnosis and targeted treatments (Gilthorpe, Stocken, led by Frangi in UoA11 and
 Jayne in UoA1). We partner with medical technology companies looking for access to specialist
 expertise and researchers.
 The central Research & Innovation Service (RIS) now housed within a new £42m
 commercialisation and innovation hub (NEXUS; REF5a), provides dedicated high-quality office
 and laboratory space to engage fully with commercial partners. Review and reorganisation of our
 support infrastructure has provided more effective financial, HR and contract advice, a more
 flexible approach to research management, and improved communication with funding bodies.
 Effective communication between the RIS and NHS partners supports management of
 Intellectual Property Rights, especially with public sector funding bodies. FMH provides central
 support for the University values-based ethics review policies and processes to assure these
 values, in compliance with the University’s policy on ethics, the NHS framework for ethical
 research and legislative requirements. A Quality Assurance team supports clinical trials
 governance.
 Following its prototypical development by LTHT and UoL in 2003, the Leeds Care Record has
 evolved into a joined-up digital care record that enables clinical and care staff to view real-time
 health and care information across different care providers and systems. It securely integrates
 important information about patients from general practices, hospitals, community healthcare,
 social services and mental health teams across Leeds. The Leeds Care Record currently
 comprises 4.3m patients, including 30.2m outpatient visits, 5.6m admissions with 199m blood
 tests, 9.7m radiology reports, 5.1m nursing observations and 14.3m coded diagnoses.
 Advanced and secure LIDA and LICTR computational platforms provide specialist technical
 services and dedicated clinical trial-specific facilities for data handling and analyses, including
 large high-performance computing resources and data management coordination meeting
 regulatory requirements. Secure data storage has accredited certification to the international
 standard for information security management (ISO/IEC 27001:2013) and is NHS Data Security
 and Protection Toolkit compliant. This allows researchers secure access to sensitive data and
 enables external data owners to work with our data scientists.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Collaborations within the University
 As shown in previous sections, UoA2 staff pursue interdisciplinary collaborations with colleagues
 in Computer Sciences, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Engineering, Food Sciences, Politics
 and International Studies, Geography, and Performing Arts, as well as extensive working across
 Clinical Medicine, Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy, Psychology,
 Psychiatry and Neuroscience. As one illustration, our University-wide Global Health Theme
 brings together different disciplines to address six key challenges: antimicrobial resistance
 (King); global mental health (Hugh-Jones in UoA3); cancer care (Allsop); governance and
 financing to deliver pro-poor systems (Wallace Brown in UoA19); global health and migration
 (Ensor); low-cost surgical solutions (Brown J, Jayne in UoA1); and ‘planetary health’ - the
 impact of climate change on health (Berrang Ford in UoA7).


 Regional collaborations
 We have enduring NHS partnerships to deliver research, teaching and innovation, including with
 the West Yorkshire and Harrogate CCGs, LTHT, the Leeds and York Partnership NHS
 Foundation Trust, the Bradford Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, and Leeds
 Community Healthcare NHS Trust. For example, our collaboration with the CCGs has resulted in
 over 300, typically ‘research-naïve’, general practices participating in joint research and quality
 improvement programmes (Foy, Alderson). Palliative care research is underpinned by a strong
 partnership with St Gemma's Hospice in Leeds, which became the world’s first University
 Hospice in 2017, integrating research and education with patient care.
 The Yorkshire and Humber Academic Health Science Network is an associate member of the
 LAHP. It was set up to create and harness a strong, purposeful partnership between patients,
 health services, industry, and academia. The Network assists in ensuring innovative products
 and services become part of routine clinical practice and in regional economic growth by
 supporting inward investment projects and industry for the health sector. Clegg is lead academic
 for its Healthy Ageing theme. The Leeds Centre for Personalised Medicine and Health was
 established through the LAHP to drive innovative risk sharing agreements and industry
 collaboration and to accelerate the evaluation and adoption of personalised treatments and
 technologies. Related projects include the Yorkshire Lung Screening Trial (Neal, Shinkins), led
 by Callister, Honorary Clinical Professor at UoL, and various industry partnerships (see below).
 The LAHP also enables cross-sectoral research; Feltbower is establishing an ‘all ages’ Leeds
 cancer cohort to evaluate the impact of care on health and educational outcomes using linked
 national databases (with Stark, UoA3).
 Our collaborations in Yorkshire and the Humber include the NIHR Applied Research
 Collaboration (with BIHR, Sheffield, York), with UoL providing £0.6m matched funding. We lead
 two workstreams: exploring and refining innovative methods for the efficient evaluation of
 interventions to improve care for older people with frailty and in care homes (Clegg, Forster,
 Farrin); and embedding an ‘implementation laboratory’ to deliver efficient trials of audit and
 feedback methods and data-driven improvement within primary care in partnership with CCGs
 across Yorkshire and Humber (Alderson, Foy, Walwyn, Farrin with Benn in UoA4). In the
 NIHR Patient Safety Translation Research Centre, we focus on Workforce Engagement and
 Wellbeing in co-producing interventions to support staff in delivering safer healthcare (with
 Bradford & York; Bojke, Foy). Such regional collaborations are facilitated by the White Rose
 University Consortium – a strategic partnership between the Universities of Leeds, Sheffield and
 York. We are a partner in the Northern Health Science Alliance, which promotes the healthcare
 and life sciences industry in the North of England, and make significant UoA2-related
 contributions through our strengths in data analytics and medical technologies.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leadership of national and international collaborations
 Theme 1 - Applied Health Research. We build on an established track record of global health
 and systems research. We coordinated the Communicable Disease Health Service Delivery
 consortium (COMDIS-HSD; Walley) 2019. Our partnerships spanned Asia (China, Bangladesh,
 Nepal, Myanmar and Pakistan) and Africa (Ghana, Uganda, Ethiopia, Eswatini, and Zambia).
 Our portfolio focused on developing, evaluating and scaling up interventions for multi-drug
 resistant tuberculosis, malaria, HIV/AIDS, and antibiotic stewardship. We now coordinate the
 Community-led Responsive and Effective Urban Health Systems (ChoRUS; Ensor) with
 partners and projects across Ghana, Nigeria, Nepal, and Bangladesh, to develop and evaluate
 interventions to improve health system functionality in poor urban communities. We coordinate
 research on improving health systems responsiveness in Ghana and Vietnam (RESPONSE,
 Mirzoev), antimicrobial resistance in Nepal and Bangladesh (CE4AMR, King), social inclusion in
 21 countries in Africa, Asia and North America (Partnerships for Equity and Inclusion; Mir),
 informed decision making about genetic cascade screening in Pakistan (Ahmed), and
 communicable and non-communicable disease control in Nigeria and Pakistan (EndHep,
 Walley). Mirzoev, Ensor, King, Mir are co-investigators on multiple collaborative grants,
 including studies addressing adolescent mental health in India and adolescent reproductive
 health in West Africa (Ghana, Nigeria, Senegal) led by our extensive global health networks.
 Theme 2 - Clinical Trials Research. The NIHR Global Health Research Group - Surgical
 Technologies, established in Leeds in 2017, addresses unmet surgical needs in low and middle-
 income countries, and includes collaborations with Sierra Leone and India (co-led by Brown J &
 Jayne in UoA1, with Cundill, King, Ensor, Shinkins). We host one of six Royal College of
 Surgeons Surgical Trials Centres, leading international trials across the translational spectrum to
 evaluate both established and innovative surgical techniques and technologies, focusing on
 colorectal, orthopaedic and vascular surgery (Stocken). We established and host the UKCRC
 Registered CTU Network, comprising 53 academic clinical trials units across the UK (Brown J).
 Theme 3 - Population Health Data Science. We lead the Paediatric Intensive Care Audit
 Network (PICANet) in partnership with Leicester and collaborators in Ireland, France, Latvia,
 Australia and New Zealand (Feltbower, Parslow). Now the definitive UK source of data for
 national audit and commissioning, PICANet has also enabled multi-centre trials, e.g.
 demonstrating that tight glycaemic control in paediatric intensive care offered no clinical or
 economic benefits over conventional management (UOA2-516). PICANet analyses have
 substantially informed commissioning, including a 5-year service plan for Scotland and a review
 of paediatric critical care in England. Greenwood D is developing methods applied to large-
 scale international consumer data to model trends in sustainable nutrition and global health,
 through directorship of the WHO Collaborating Centre in Nutrition Epidemiology (with Hardie in
 UoA1, Cade in UoA6, and external collaborations including Harvard, Imperial, Oslo and
 Queensland). Gilthorpe (and Tennant in UoA3) collaborate with colleagues in Boston and
 Nijmegen to aid with the translation, uptake, and understanding of contemporary causal
 inference methods, including Directed Acyclic Graphs and the DAGitty software.


 Contributions to national and international collaborations
 Theme 1 - Applied Health Research. Ensor collaborates with Knowledge for Development (K4D)
 to assist the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office and other UK government
 departments in responding to rapidly changing and complex development challenges, and with
 the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Office advising on capacity and systems. Walley works with
 country ministries of health and NGO partners in Africa and SE Asia on non-communicable
 diseases, infectious diseases (hepatitis, respiratory, TB and COVID-19) care, prevention and
 control. Mir established the Ethnicity Training Network to equip health, social care and voluntary
 service providers to engage with the UK’s minority ethnic population.
 Smith collaborates with the ASCAP consortium of aspirin investigators (QMUL, Newcastle, UCL,
 Harvard); Neal with the Policy Research Unit on cancer awareness, screening and diagnosis
 (with QMUL, KCL, UCL, Cambridge, Exeter, HYMS) and Neal & Shinkins with the CRUK
 CanTest Collaborative on diagnosing cancer in primary care (with Cambridge, UCL, Exeter,

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Seattle, Houston, Melbourne, Aarhus and Utrecht). Bennett leads on cancer pain assessment in
 a European Association for Palliative care core collaborating centre (with Edinburgh, Milan and
 Aachen) and collaborates on the EU INADVANCE Programme (Valencia, Erasmus,
 Thessaloniki).
 Clegg, Alderson, Farrin, Foy, Teale & West are developing a learning system to optimise
 anticholinergic prescribing for older people with Health Data Research UK North. Forster &
 Farrin collaborate with the International Stroke Recovery and Rehabilitation Roundtable
 Initiative (led by the Florey Institute).
 Theme 2 - Clinical Trials Research. Farrin, Walwyn, Foy & Alderson co-founded the A&F
 MetaLab to advance the science and impact of audit and feedback with academic collaborators
 (Ottawa, Toronto, Quebec, Houston, Ann Arbor, Amsterdam) and UK national clinical audit
 programmes (MINAP, PICANet, National Comparative Audit of Blood Transfusion, National
 Diabetes Audit, and Trauma Audit and Research Network).
 Farrin & Brown J collaborate with the MRC-NIHR Trial Methodology Research Partnership,
 Walwyn with KCL, Bristol and Aberdeen on experimental designs for complex intervention trials
 and LSHTM, Manchester and Essex on causal inference in complex intervention trials, Brown J
 with Birmingham and Sydney on patient reported outcomes in clinical trials, and Stocken with
 Liverpool, Oxford and Newcastle on developing Good Statistical Practice.
 Theme 3 - Population Health Data Science. Gale collaborates with MINAP (Leicester, Public
 Health England), Barrett with the MAximising Therapeutic Utility in Rheumatoid Arthritis
 (MATURA) stratified medicine consortium, the Melanoma Genetics Consortium (GenoMEL) and
 the MELGEN training network, and Feltbower with the European Network of Teenagers and
 Young Adults with Cancer. Gilthorpe collaborated with the Alan Turing Institute DECOVID
 project, established as a rapid response to model Covid-19 in partnership with Manchester, UCL
 and Oxford. Gilthorpe, Ellison and Tennant are part of an international consortium on causal
 inference methodologies, linking the UK with Europe and US.


 Industrial collaborations
 Clinical Trials Research receives substantial industry funding for cancer trials, ranging from
 access to free pharmaceuticals to investigator-initiated trial grants and joint funding with charity
 or NIHR. Brown S & Cairns also work with Celgene on outcome measures for myeloma.
 Stocken is an invited member of the HealthTech Alliance, which works collaboratively with
 policy makers to ensure innovation reaches patients. Innovate UK Digital Health Technology
 Catalyst funded awards on machine learning based cancer risk prediction for primary care (with
 Pinpoint Cancer Limited; Neal, Shinkins, with West Yorkshire Cancer Alliance), a risk-
 stratification test for bladder cancer (with Randox; Sagoo), and predicting delayed graft function
 in renal transplants (with Biopassport; Shinkins). Walley & Ensor work with a consortium of
 consultancy organisations (HEART, led by Oxford Policy Management) to advise governments
 in low- and middle-income countries funded by DFID. We contributed health economics to NIHR
 I4I funded work introducing digital-based solutions to chronic disease management (Meads) a
 platform for the long-term management of men with prostate cancer (Meads), and an intra-
 abdominal platform for laparoscopic surgery (Hulme with Culmer in UoA12).


 Patient and public involvement and engagement (PPIE)
 Our strong arrangements are underpinned by our University’s STAR framework: Social
 responsibility (e.g. sensitivity to diversity and inclusion); Trust (e.g. acting ethically and
 responsibly); Accountability (e.g. ensuring PPE collaborators can influence the research; and
 Relevance (e.g. acceptability of methods and topics to participants). Using the UK Standards for
 Public Involvement, we have identified strengths and areas for improvement.
    Secure meaningful and appropriate PPIE, increasingly represented across all phases of
     research, including investigator and authorship status. We have contributed to INVOLVE
     guidance on PPIE in clinical trials. PPIE has demonstrable impacts on our research, e.g.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     PPIE was critical to ethics approval for ‘opt-out’ recruitment of general practices to
     randomised trials (UOA2-2185) and led to co-authored guidance on PPIE for implementation
     research. We work with groups with relevant lived experience, e.g. the Yorkshire Cancer
     Community, and plan to move from convening multiple PPE groups for individual projects
     towards more sustainable PPIE partnerships.
    Develop our capacity and infrastructure. The University’s Public Engagement team runs
     training, support and community-focused events, e.g. the annual Be Curious open day that
     engages families in our research (now attracting over 1200 visitors a year and delivered
     online twice in 2020). A Wellcome Trust Engagement Fellow (Muir) ensures meaningful PPIE
     in our clinical trials. The University Engagement Excellence Scheme has awarded
     competitive fellowships to our staff to create a network of PPIE champions, including Allsop
     and Muir in UoA2.
    Develop and evaluate novel approaches to PPIE. For example, Drinkwater’s NIHR DRF uses
     participatory research to strengthen the role of PPIE in general practice service
     improvement. Drinkwater and Muir secured an ESRC Impact Acceleration Award to explore
     novel approaches for dissemination working with the School of Performance and Cultural
     Industries. ESRC promotes Mir’s work on participatory research as a model for ethical
     engagement. Smith received British Psychological Society funding to develop a behavioural
     science module for the Wellcome Trust’s ‘I’m a Scientist, Get Me Out of Here!’ – providing
     online access for children to behavioural researchers.
    Increase the diversity of people involved in our PPIE activities. We have begun to expand
     our existing PPIE networks, focusing on communities that typically do not engage with
     research, and building trust in researchers and research organisations, e.g. INVOLVE
     funded work with the York Travellers Trust. We will consolidate local links through networks
     such as Healthwatch, which purposely recruit diverse volunteers from hard to reach groups
     (e.g. homelessness, alcohol abuse).


 Contribution to the research base, economy and society
 We ensure that our research remains responsive to the priorities of key end-users and achieves
 impact by participating in national and international policy and advisory boards, funding
 committees, governance bodies and research networks.
 International advisory boards and funding bodies, including: Health Systems Global (Mirzoev,
 Board of Directors); NIH, StrokeNet (Forster); Swedish Research Council (Forster); Swiss
 Development Cooperation (Ensor); WHO Collaborating Centre for Nutritional Epidemiology
 (Greenwood D, Director); Health Research Board of Ireland (Hewison, chairing several panels,
 & Forster); National Research Centre for Diet, Obesity and Diabetes, Ireland (Gilthorpe);
 Society for Reproductive and Infant Psychology (Bryant, Chair); European Geriatric Medicine
 Society (Clegg, Frailty SIG Co-chair); Canadian Frailty Network (Clegg); European Society of
 Cardiology NSTEMI registry (Gale, Chair); UN/World Bank Expert Group on Sustainable
 Development Goal 10 (Mir).
 National research priority setting group membership, including: NIHR Trainees Coordinating
 Centre 10 year Strategic Review of Training (Hewison); NIHR HTA Elective and Emergency
 Specialist Care (Meads); NIHR Older People with Complex Health Needs (Clegg); NIHR Urgent
 Public Health Group (Brown J); NIHR HS&DR Support for Ethnic Minorities (Mir); NCRI Clinical
 and Translational Radiotherapy Research Working Group (Brown SR); National Myeloma
 Research Alliance (Brown SR).
 National funding committee membership, including: NIHR HTA (Brown J – Chair, Farrin); NIHR
 Global Health Research Groups (Hewison); NIHR Global Health Policy and Systems
 Programme (Mirzoev, Ensor); NIHR PGfAR Strategy Advisory Group (Hewison); NIHR PGfAR
 subpanels (Hewison – Chair, Forster, Foy, Meads); UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund
 (Mir); NIHR In-Practice Fellowships (Foy, Richards); NIHR RfPB (Neal, Smith); NIHR HS&DR
 (Alderson, Bojke, Forster, Mir, West); NIHR Doctoral Research Fellowships (Forster); NIHR
 Clinical Trial Fellowships and DSE Panels (Cairns); Stroke Association (Forster, Hewison,

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Meads); BHF (Stocken); Diabetes UK (Stocken); CRUK EMERP (Brown SR); CRUK
 Epidemiology Expert Review (Gilthorpe, subpanel chair); CRUK Prevention and Population
 Research (Gilthorpe, Neal); British Council Newton Fund (Allsop, Mirzoev); RCGP Scientific
 Foundation Board (Neal, chair); Dunhill Medical Trust Research (Clegg).
 National research network and methodological groups, including: Health Data Research UK
 North (Clegg, Associate Director); NIHR ARC Ageing, Frailty, Dementia National Theme (Clegg,
 Joint Lead); NIHR Academy Methodology Incubator (Hewison); NIHR CTUs Standing Advisory
 Committee (Hewison); MRC/NIHR Trials Methodology Partnership (Farrin); NIHR HTA Elective
 and Emergency Specialist Care Methodology (Meads); Alan Turing Institute Causal Inference
 Interest Group (Gilthorpe, co-founder); Methodology Advisory Group, Healthcare Quality
 Improvement Partnership (Feltbower, Foy); NHS England expert reference group for Electronic
 Palliative Care Coordination Systems (Allsop).
 National professional leadership, including: NICE guideline development groups for stroke
 rehabilitation, multimorbidity, delirium, and palliative care (Forster, Clegg, Bennett); NICE
 Indicator Advisory Group (Gale); NICE Technology Appraisal Committee (Meads); NICE Public
 Health Advisory Committee (Bojke); Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (Greenwood D);
 National Screening Committee (NSC, Bryant); NSC Fetal Anomaly Screening Programme
 (Hewison, Deputy Chair of Advisory Group); Expert Scientific and Clinical Advisory Group,
 National Congenital Anomaly and Rare Disease Registration Service (Hewison); PHE
 Information and Education Group on national roll-out of non-invasive prenatal screening for
 Trisomy 13,18 & 21 (Bryant, Chair); NICE Implementation Strategy Group (Foy); National
 Institute for Clinical Outcomes Research (Gale, Co-Chair, Research Board); Faculty of Pain
 Medicine ‘Framework for pain services in cancer and life threatening diseases’ (Bennett, Lead);
 British Geriatrics Society (Clegg); Society for Academic Primary Care Executive (Richards);
 RCP Speciality Advisory Committee in Palliative Medicine (Bennett, academic lead); Advance
 HE’s Athena SWAN charter (Bryant, panel chair); Nuffield Council on Bio-ethics working group
 on Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing (Bryant).
 Peer review. Journal editorships include: Journal of Developmental Origins of Health and
 Disease (Gilthorpe, Statistical Editor); Implementation Science (Foy, Deputy Editor-in-Chief);
 European Heart Journal Quality of Care and Clinical Outcomes (Gale, Deputy Editor); PAIN
 (Bennett, Associate Editor); Age and Ageing (Teale, Associate Editor); and BMC Family
 Practice (Richards, Associate Editor). We contribute extensively to peer review, including
 through membership of 11 editorial boards.
 Academic awards, honours and prizes include: NIHR Senior Investigators (Forster and Brown
 J); EHI Live Award for Healthcare IT Product Innovation, 2016 (Clegg); RCP Excellence in
 Patient Care Award, 2017 (Clegg); AHSN Innovation award, 2018 (Alderson); UoL Women of
 Achievement, 2016 (Brown J); the inaugural Doug Altman Scholarship, 2019 (Bradley).




                                                                                          Page 20
