Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Plymouth

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure

 The University of Plymouth’s UoA18 represents 15 FTE scholars from the School of Law,
 Criminology and Government (SoLCG) and is the University’s first Law submission to the REF.
 This symbolises the growth and breadth of socio-legal and criminological research within SoLCG
 and emphasises here the unit’s interdisciplinary research activity which aims to have maximum
 public impact in terms of driving forward social and environmental justice and local, national, and
 international policy.

 The Law UoA represents an integrated team of outstanding researchers. It has cultivated a vibrant
 and sustainable research culture that has offered a dynamic space for researchers to engage with
 each other across disciplinary boundaries within an inclusive and coherent environment that has
 provided support and guidance for all researchers, including mentoring of PGRs and ECRs.
 Research activity has been organised and managed through two internationally recognised
 research groupings consisting of a) Crime, History and Institutions: Transdisciplinary
 Conversations in Heritage, Art and Transmedia (#CHITCHAT), and b) Crime, Justice and
 Society (CJS).

 The #CHITCHAT research initiative (Schroff, Channing, Category B Stevenson) developed out
 of transdisciplinary conversations in heritage, art and transmedia that explored crime, history and
 institutions and has promoted knowledge exchange to an international audience with a distinctive
 South West England approach. That approach has embedded an historical narrative of discovery,
 innovation and exploration that has presented local crime heritage accounts through innovative
 transmedia methods.

 The CJS research group has provided a flexible, responsive and proactive environment for
 international, interdisciplinary methodologically innovative research in criminology and socio-legal
 studies. The CJS research group works in three research clusters informed by the UN
 sustainability goals as they feed into the Economic and Social Research Council strategic
 priorities. The research clusters are: Crime, Culture and Society (Gervassis, Gould, Lowther,
 Medley, Schroff, Smith, Category B Raymen, and 3 PGR); Governance, Penality and Policing
 (Channing, Deblasio, Goodall, Gray, Simmonds, Category B Annison, Lyon, Newbery-Jones
 and 3 PGR); and, Vulnerability and Inequality (Hanley-Santos, James, McBride, Milne, Von
 Berg and 2 PGR).

 Our research draws on our expertise across law, social policy and criminology, and extensive links
 with sociology, history and psychology. Through most of the REF census period, the SoLCG sat
 within the Faculty of Business and therefore the research in #CHITCHAT and CJS formed part of
 the Institute for Social, Policy and Enterprise Research (ISPER). ISPER facilitated research links
 with policymakers and organisations, civil society and social enterprise. In 2019, SoLCG joined
 the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business, augmenting existing research links with new and
 creative spaces for research development within the Law UoA.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Strategy 2014 – 2020
 A commitment to innovation has underpinned our research strategy in the census period, wherein
 original and creative ways of thinking, methodologies and approaches are embraced. This has
 resulted in the intellectual development of law, criminology and cogent disciplines and impact in
 local, national and international communities. Although REF 2021 is our first entry to UoA 18, it
 represents the culmination of a strategic synergy between researchers across Law and
 Criminology since REF2014, including:

     •   The development of an international profile by prioritising researcher engagement and
         leadership roles on international boards and committees.
     •   Development of effective routes of knowledge exchange through building relationships
         with groups and communities who are impacted by our research.
     •   Embedding sustainability through outstanding research and cultivation of a collaborative
         research community through specific researcher training and opportunities to share
         research and ideas.

 A concerted investment of energy, time, and resources in core areas of expertise has enabled us
 to achieve our strategic aims.

 #CHITCHAT Research Initiative
 Innovation is demonstrated by the development of projects by Stevenson, Visiting Prof.
 Rowbotham, Channing and Schroff as part of the #CHITCHAT initiative, to collect and digitise
 oral histories, storing them on a bespoke new archive, Contemporary Oral History Resource. The
 transdisciplinary themes of law, crime and history are further embedded in the SOLON project
 (Promoting Interdisciplinary Studies in Law Crime and History) hosted in association with
 #CHITCHAT. SOLON is a collaborative partnership of 8 Universities, a network of over 300
 academics, produces an open-access journal Law, Crime and History and a collaborative book
 series with Routledge, SOLON: Explorations in Crime and Criminal Justice History. The work
 produced from #CHITCHAT has resulted in outputs that have informed knowledge regionally,
 nationally and internationally. As well as resulting in attainment of the Dada Saheb Phalke
 International Film Festival Mumbai Certificate of Recognition, work has been published in Cultural
 and Social History, and the edited collection by David J Cox (Wolverhampton) and Channing,
 Leading the Police: A History of Chief Constables. Channing was an invited keynote speaker in
 Berlin on his research at the Institute of British Studies on policing political extremism. Further,
 work in this area has been published in refereed journals, including Policing: a Journal of Policy
 and Practice and the Australian Feminist Law Journal. Books include Channing’s The Police and
 the Expansion of Public Order Law in Britain, 1829-2014 and Cox, Stevenson, Harris and
 Rowbotham Public Indecency in England 1857-1960.

 Crime, Justice and Society Research Group
 By emphasising core areas within each of the research group’s clusters, it has been possible for
 the academic team to deliver a breadth of outputs, impacts and knowledge exchange activities
 across all clusters that have benefitted policy, practice and the academy.

 The area of environmental harm and law that sits within the Crime, Culture and Society research
 cluster involves considerable interdisciplinarity. This links closely with wider university priorities
 and strengths in marine research and exemplifies the pioneering nature of research in SoLCG. A
 broad approach to environment is taken reflecting institutional strategic strengths in marine and
 maritime environments and societies; and including endangered species, sustainability, and

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cultural heritage. The cluster works closely with two of the institution’s strategic research institutes:
 the Sustainable Earth Institute (Lowther serves on the Institute Executive) and the Marine
 Institute. Colleagues have contributed to several conferences, workshops and other initiatives at
 Plymouth and internationally, a witness seminar, Maritime Military Heritage: Illicit Salvage and its
 Consequences. Such contributions have included, organisation, running workshops, delivering
 papers and having direct involvement in, for example, the governance mechanisms around the
 Marine National Park project being fronted by Plymouth City Council, the Blue Marine Foundation
 and sanctioned by Defra. Lowther and Visiting Professor of Law Williams have successfully
 delivered funded research for Historic England on enforcement options in respect of the protection
 of Underwater Heritage. This work is highlighted through a REF 2021 impact case study (ICS2)
 evidencing the significant influence this research has had on underwater heritage internationally.
 They have worked on projects with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Department for
 Digital, Media, Culture and Sport and the Ministry of Defence; and have memoranda of
 understanding with key underwater cultural heritage third sector organisations. Work in this area
 has been published in a breadth of international environments, including the Journal of Planning
 and Environmental Law, the International Journal of Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
 and The Law Teacher: The International Journal of Legal Education.

 In addition, within the Crime, Culture and Society cluster, research on ‘Deviant Leisure’ (Smith,
 Raymen and 4 PGRs) has been a key area of development. Representing a new theoretical
 perspective within criminology, the critical examination of consumerism and harm within the leisure
 industries has pushed the boundaries of concepts of motivation and harm as well as expanding
 the purview of criminology as a discipline as evidenced by international engagement with the area
 in both research and teaching. There is a chapter in the Oxford Handbook of Criminology 6th
 Edition with postgraduate researchers using this work nationally and internationally. Smith and
 Raymen have a book series with Emerald publishing alongside Tara Brazabon at Flinders
 (Australia) and an edited collection (2019) building on contributions to their Blog. A podcast
 recorded by the late Prof. Steve Redhead was downloaded more than 50,000 times. Their work
 is published in high impact journals, including Theoretical Criminology, The Journal of Consumer
 Culture, and The British Journal of Criminology, as well as an edited collection entitled, Deviant
 Leisure: Criminological Perspectives on Leisure and Harm.

 Within the Governance, Penality and Policing research cluster, emphasis on the governance of
 crime and punishment in a penal culture overshadowed by marketisation, privatization and
 devastating cuts to public funding has been a key area of development (Gray, Milne, Deblasio).
 This is reflected in Gray’s research and publications which critically interrogate the
 interrelationship between penality and political economy, and how this is translated into youth
 justice and prison policy and practice. This research comprises two main strands. The first
 explores the current challenges posed by neoliberal penalty to the problematisation of youth crime
 and interventions with young people who offend. Recently this has galvanised into a focus on
 criminal justice responses to knife crime among young people. The second probes how the harms
 of imprisonment undermine the desistance process for adult offenders in a neoliberal penal
 environment. Since 2014 Gray has engaged with wider academic networks around each of these
 two themes (e.g. Universities of Durham, Nottingham and Queen’s Belfast). Members of these
 research partnerships regularly present joint papers at the annual British Society of Criminology
 and European Society of Criminology conferences and have produced several articles in high
 impact journals, including Theoretical Criminology, Critical Criminology, and Criminology and
 Criminal Justice.

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Milne’s research considers criminal justice responses to women suspected of causing the death
 of their newborn children in which she analysed criminal court hearings relating to infanticide, child
 cruelty, abortion and concealment of birth. Deblasio’s research considered the impact of adoption
 on birth mothers and the failure of the legal process to protect the rights and access of those
 parents in the interests of their children. As excellent ECRs this emerging research specialism
 within SoLCG has led to their work being presented nationally and internationally. Milne is a
 Steering Group member of the Women, Crime and Criminal Justice network of the British Society
 of Criminology and her work has been published in Feminist Legal Studies and the European
 Journal of Health Law and DeBlasio’s research has been published as a Routledge monograph,
 Adoption and the Law: The Unique Personal Experiences of Birth Mothers in Adoption
 Proceedings.

 The Vulnerability and Inequality research cluster includes a focus of work on hate crime (James
 and McBride) that has been high on the recent policy agenda. Yet, as work by James and
 collaborator Dr D. Smith (Anglia Ruskin) has shown, there have been few positive gains for hate
 victims despite policy interventions in this area. James and McBride are building a coherent body
 of work that challenges existing dogma and assumed knowledge on why hate happens and what
 we can do about it, through the framework of ‘Critical Hate Studies’. They have presented this
 work at conferences nationally and internationally, including invited presentations in New Zealand
 in 2018. James gave a keynote address at the national inaugural Gypsy and Traveller Coalition
 Conference in 2018 considering the harms of hate against excluded communities. She is a Co-
 Director of the International Network for Hate Studies, sits on the Steering Group of the British
 Society of Criminology Race Matters Network and is an invited member of the UK government
 Ministry for Housing, Communities and Local Government roundtable on Gypsy, Roma and
 Traveller policy and the Law Commission review of hate crime legislation. James’ work with
 Gypsies, Travellers and Roma constitutes an impact case study (ICS2) that evidences the positive
 outcomes for Gypsies, Travellers and Roma arising from her research, including better
 accommodation, more informed policing and acknowledgement of hate crimes against those
 communities. Work published in Critical Hate Studies within the journal Theoretical Criminology
 and James monograph, The Harms of Hate Against Gypsies and Travellers: A critical hate studies
 perspective, has been presented at international conferences, including the International Network
 for Hate Studies conference in Canada in 2018, and the American Society of Criminology
 Conference in 2019. In 2020 the University of Plymouth hosted the first online International
 Network for Hate Studies conference in partnership with the Organisation for Security and
 Cooperation in Europe attracting 530 visits to the event from attendees in 38 countries.

 Impact strategy 2014-2020

 Our core aim in the current REF period was to embed impact culture within the broader research
 culture. By initiating conversations around impact at early stages of research meetings, within
 Performance Development Reviews (PDR) and through mentoring, and investing in research with
 impact potential via funding, administrative support, and expert guidance from within ISPER, it has
 been possible to build an impact culture. We have offered training across the unit and, since 2019,
 have worked closely with The Bridge, the Faculty initiative to promote innovative research and
 knowledge exchange supported by HEIF funding.

 Through the Justice Works project, which has developed into the Sustainable Social Justice
 initiative from 2020, we hold regular stakeholder events and workshops to maintain engagement

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with policy and practice in core areas of research interest. We are committed to strengthening
 existing and developing new partnerships to develop pathways to impact and extend the reach of
 our research and expertise. UoA18’s submitted Impact Case Studies exemplify our commitment
 to impactful work that has continued despite the challenges and restrictions encountered during
 the COVID 19 pandemic.

 Within CJS, the Sustainable Social Justice initiative interfaces with criminal justice, third sector
 and civil society agencies to co-produce effective research and praxis. For example, Gray has led
 a team of researchers in providing an evaluation of rehabilitative innovation at HMP Dartmoor.
 Similarly, James has worked with Plymouth City Council to evaluate the family intervention
 project, and with Southampton City Council to evaluate their restorative justice approach to
 working with families. #CHITCHAT has worked alongside museums to engage local, national and
 international audiences in historical narratives of power, policing and crime.

 Non-academic user-groups, stakeholders and beneficiaries of our research are far-ranging and
 diverse, consisting of criminal justice and third sector agencies, marine heritage organisations
 (see ICS1), local councils, national media, marginalised groups (see ICS2). The Plymouth Law
 Clinic has for the past six years run a variety of pro bono projects, and offer real advice and
 representation to clients – with an emphasis on family and asylum seeker support – making a
 genuine difference in people’s lives.

 Researchers within #CHITCHAT and CJS have undertaken a variety of pathways to impact to
 engage audiences, contribute to society and reduce inequality in pursuit of social and
 environmental justice. Within the current REF period, scholars have contributed to national media
 discussion on key issues, engaged audiences through public lectures, undertaken witness
 seminars, and contributed to archives. There has been a particular emphasis on working with and
 on behalf of marginalised and voiceless groups, in particular drug users, non-human animals,
 Gypsies, Roma and Travellers, and LGBT+. For example, in November 2019, the Hoe
 Neighbourhood Forum, together with the University of Plymouth’s #CHITCHAT team, Real Ideas
 Organisation and The Box museum gallery and archive space, hosted a Heritage Lottery-funded
 exhibition in Plymouth Guildhall to celebrate the contribution made by powerful women who, over
 the last 100 years, have promoted, protected, and empowered Plymouth’s citizens. McBride’s
 research on transgender victimisation underpinned an engagement event with young people,
 funded through the ESRC Festival of Social Science that offered participants a chance to share
 their lived experiences of growing-up Trans* and support young people. By sharing experiences
 of rejection, regulation, resistance and recognition across the generations, this event aimed to
 affirm a new generations’ right to flourish in ways that were not possible in the past.

 Lowther (ICS1) has organised regular events between the local authority, Royal Naval and private
 underwater cultural heritage exhibitors; those with a general interest in marine archaeology; and
 the broader maritime history community. Building upon previous ESRC events and current and
 published research by the team, he has engaged the public and experts in the discovery, retrieval,
 regulation, curation and communication of underwater cultural heritage through using ESRC
 Festival of Social Science funds.

 Across the Law UoA we have been developing research networks facilitated by our membership
 of international initiatives, such as the International Network for Hate Studies and via our Visiting
 Professor Rob White at UTAS, Tasmania. Also, members of research clusters have served on

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international research projects as expert advisors on victimisation and social inclusion. Further,
 members of the #CHITCHAT research initiative are working to internationalise projects that bring
 together historical accounts of transportation, currently working with colleagues at Dalhousie
 University, Canada.

 James (ICS2) has attended international workshops on Gypsy, Traveller and Roma inclusion in
 Ireland, Romania and the UK, to inform change in social policy and practice delivery for those
 excluded communities. In addition, she has delivered and contributed to training, informed by her
 research, to a range of organisations to expedite appropriate treatment of Gypsies, Travellers and
 Roma within legislation and by emergency first responders, the police, and local authorities in the
 UK and Romania.

 Research and Impact Strategy 2020-2025

 Our research and impact strategy for the next REF cycle aligns with the University of Plymouth
 2030 strategy to produce world-leading interdisciplinary research that is pivotal in delivering
 knowledge exchange and innovation which ‘makes a difference’. We will enter the next cycle with
 a reorganised research structure across a new School of Society and Culture. This structure will
 embed and normalise high-quality research outputs, and interdisciplinary collaboration through an
 organisation that consists of three strategic research groups, a social justice initiative (consisting
 of the Plymouth Law Clinic and Sustainable Social Justice Initiative), as well as The Culture and
 Heritage Exchange (#CHEX), which will build on the successes of #CHITCHAT, with greater
 emphasis on knowledge exchange and interdisciplinarity. Our strategic priorities include:

 Advancing established and emerging areas of excellence to build research power, enhance
 collaboration and contribute to wider impact. This will be pursued by aligning research where
 possible to the University’s strategic research institutes and by embedding outputs, pathways to
 impact and impact within the design stage of research projects.

 Building a culture that celebrates interdisciplinarity and outward facing research. This will be
 achieved through providing support for PGR and ECR researchers, in partnership with
 experienced colleagues, through faculty and school-wide networks.

 Growing and supporting a rich and diverse PGR community. By supporting PGR students via
 mentoring and workshops to turn their on-going research in to outputs in high-quality journals and
 ensuring recent PhD completions by ECRs are translated into research monographs where
 appropriate alongside drawing up personal research plans. Encouraging a ResM culture that
 fosters research partnerships with external agencies and contributes to impact.

 Developing effective public engagement and knowledge exchange. Here we intend to build on our
 existing networks and partnerships, build capacity within our impact case studies and develop
 distinct and innovative pathways to impact through closer engagement with faculty and university-
 wide resources, and clear identification of research in our areas of excellence denoted by the
 themed research group, initiatives, and associated research clusters.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Since 2013, the SoLCG has recruited in accordance with our research strategy. This has focused
 on three related objectives:
 1) Developing scholars to provide leadership in #CHITCHAT and the three research clusters,
 2) Recruitment of outstanding junior scholars with clear potential to generate research excellence
 and sustainability, and,
 3) Building a staff base with a wide range of methodological and substantive skills to generate
 innovative collaboration and contribute to research-led teaching.

 Staff within the UoA constitute 70% Lecturers (Grades 7 and 8), 25% Associate Professors (Grade
 9) and 5% Professor, with 81.3% on full time and 18.8% part-time permanent contracts. The staff
 team ages are 25-34 18.8%, 35-44 37.5%, 45-54 31.3%, and 65+ 12.5%. Other demographic
 details of staff are detailed further below. During the 2014-2020 period, some senior staff have
 retired (Annison, Lyon, Stevenson), and mid-career staff (Newbery Jones, Raymen) have
 moved on to develop their careers in other institutions. This has meant that the innovative research
 developed in Plymouth has extended its reach to other institutions and we have had the
 opportunity to recruit ECRs attracted to Plymouth by our increasing national and international
 reputation for research. Senior retired staff (Annison, Stevenson) have remained influential in
 the UoA via honorary positions that have facilitated and provided capacity for effective mentoring
 of mid-career and ECR researchers resulting in our research clusters and initiatives remaining
 active and vibrant, demonstrating a sustainable and stimulating intellectual environment. Capacity
 has therefore been provided for mid-career staff to take on research leadership and advancement,
 while ECRs have been supported to become future research leaders. Appointment of ECR posts
 (Channing, Deblasio, Gould, McBride, Medley, Milne, Schroff) has brought in a strong field of
 international candidates (Medley, Northeastern University, USA; Schroff, Waseda University,
 Japan) who have enhanced our work and built on existing strengths, as well as developed new
 interdisciplinary approaches within the SoLCG. ECRs have drawn on synergies across the School
 and engaged with other academics at the University, with other UK institutions and with
 international networks. All research-active staff have permanent contracts and have workload
 capacity, as determined by the SoLCG Workload Allocation Model, to contribute to the research
 and scholarship of the School. Further, part-time staff have equal opportunities for research and
 research-related activities.

 Staff development
 Development of research activity has occurred within SoLCG via a series of processes at all
 stages of career. Specific workload allocation for research activity has ensured that staff engaged
 in research projects, writing and dissemination have time, as well as services noted below. Such
 workload allocation provides for ECRs by giving them reduced administrative and teaching duties
 in their first year, with substantive administrative roles in teaching delivery and module leadership
 taken on in their second year of appointment so that they can publish from their PhD work, engage
 with research clusters and establish new research initiatives. All ECRs are provided with mentors
 whom they can attain advice and support from and who can introduce them to local, regional and
 international research networks that they are encouraged to exploit. New appointments also have
 reduced teaching and administration loads in their first year. All research-active staff have
 protected research time within their timetable, with teaching limited to specific days. In addition,



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the University’s ‘curriculum enrichment project’ has provided sufficiently lengthy inter-semester
 breaks to support focused research time.

 The University processes for probation meetings with new staff over their first two years of
 employment and subsequent performance development reviews are rigorous and collegiate to
 ensure career-long support for research and scholarship. An integral element of these bi-annual
 one-to-one meetings is an annual review of research and scholarship activity and future research
 plans for five years, and identification of development needs. Such review processes have
 enabled the identification of staff at all stages of their careers who have exceeded research
 expectations. Review processes allow for staff to reflect on their research contributions and
 subsequently engage with promotion processes. In addition, senior staff mentor ECRs with similar
 research interests and they are included on supervisory teams for PhDs in order to gain
 supervisory experience. Further, an inclusive and sustainable approach ensures that leadership
 opportunities are provided to staff throughout their careers, with senior staff working closely with
 mid-career colleagues and ECRs where appropriate to model and develop future research
 leaders. All research cluster and initiative leads report to the Associate Head of School for
 Research and sit on the School Research Committee which in turn reports to the Faculty Research
 Committee which informs the Faculty Management Group and the University Research and
 Innovation Committee.

 University promotion processes are discussed with staff within performance development reviews,
 encouraging staff to engage with mechanisms to identify their strengths within promotion
 frameworks. As such, staff can produce robust accounts of their progression in terms of education,
 research, external engagement/enterprise, and leadership, management and engagement.
 Alongside other promotions within SoLCG, within the UoA Gray and Smith have been promoted
 to Associate Professor/Reader.

 The University requires all new staff to engage in higher education teacher training and
 professional development and the SoLCG provides the opportunity for PhD students to complete
 modules in this area to enhance their career prospects. Other training is available via the Doctoral
 College, Research and Innovation, and Human Resources and is encouraged for all staff
 throughout their career on publishing, grant capture and research planning, doctoral research
 supervision and research ethics. A dynamic staff research seminar programme provides the
 opportunity for researchers to present work in progress to colleagues for discussion and debate,
 and associated workshops offer training in presentation, writing and collaborative working to ECRs
 and doctoral students. Thus, we have embedded the principles of the ‘Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers’, facilitating a supportive and collegiate research
 environment for staff.

 Staff involved in potentially impactful work have been supported by internal funds and
 administrative assistance, as well as training and external advice, to build on and ensure that
 pathways to impact result in specific measurable social impacts on policy and practice. Funding
 applications are reviewed by the Associate Head of School for Research and an identified subject
 expert external to the bid. Resultant impact case studies (ICS1 and ICS2) identified within this
 REF submission evidence the success of those funding and support mechanisms. Those whose
 research is theoretically impactful, as evidenced by outputs in high-impact publications, received
 funds into their strategic research accounts.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of the research group have run ESRC Festival of Social Science events over the REF
 period, enabling staff, particularly ECRs, to develop skills in respect of bid-writing, event
 hosting/project management and research dissemination to both lay and cognate target
 audiences. Examples of knowledge exchange activities include the documentary screening of A
 Returned Pilgrim: Nancy Astor & Plymouth, Plymouth Past: Sustainable Future, and Piracy and
 Plymouth: Privateering, Profiting and Policing.

 Research Students
 Since 2014 we have had 12 PhD completions. Currently we have 26 research degree registrations
 (8:17:1, m:f:x). Applications for PhD registration have increasingly come from prospective students
 keen to engage with the areas of strategic expertise within the research group. SoLCG funds a
 number of students, however, the commitment to study and keenness to engage with researchers
 within #CHITCHAT and CJS has meant that increasing numbers of students have been prepared
 to self-fund their PhD work. SoLCG has ameliorated the financial impact of self-funding by
 providing PhD students with the opportunity for Associate Lecturer contracts to deliver teaching
 but with careful attention to workload so as not to negatively affect PhD study. All students are
 provided with funding to complete fieldwork and to disseminate their research, no matter their
 registration status.

 SoLCG’s commitment to sustainable academic careers for PhD students, amid the increasingly
 competitive nature of academic recruitment, has been evidenced through the appointment in 2017
 of three Doctoral Teaching Assistants on 0.6 contracts for five years, with 0.4 PhD. The cost of
 PhD study, including fees, fieldwork and research dissemination are met by the school for these
 students. Within their teaching roles, these students have had the opportunity to lead modules in
 their research areas, and they have all successfully completed a Postgraduate Certificate in
 Higher Education in their first two years in role. On completion of their PhDs, these students will
 have associated publications, prepared in partnership with their Director of Studies.

 Research students are supported via multiple mechanisms overseen by the University Doctoral
 College. Their input to the culture of the University, Faculties, the school and research groupings
 is embedded through their involvement in various research committees at all levels, including the
 SoLCG Research Committee and the Faculty Postgraduate Research Committee. A school-level
 Postgraduate Research Coordinator ensures all students access the various University, Faculty
 and School level support mechanisms, including funding streams. Throughout the REF period,
 research students have been able to organise and deliver an annual Faculty postgraduate
 research conference attended by academics across the University and the region, as well as by
 regional organisations engaged in research. This conference engages students in the process of
 conference management and dissemination in a supportive environment in preparation for the
 dissemination of their work on national and international platforms, as well as to enhance their
 career prospects.

 Teams with a minimum of three members of staff, including an early career researcher, supervise
 PhD students. The online GradBook system documents supervisory meetings, identifies
 progression points and sets deadlines for PhD students and their supervisors. Students are
 offered the opportunity to publish their early work in the Plymouth Law and Criminal Justice
 Review, a peer-reviewed journal that serves as an excellent environment to publish initial ideas
 and literature review work, as well as research reports. Publication with supervisors in the later
 stages of enrolment has supported PhD student career development.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhD students are integral to the research environment, and participate fully in seminars, research
 fora and conferences, facilitating their academic networking and improving their employability.
 PhD students are encouraged to present their work in house, as part of the staff seminar series,
 at SoLCG/British Society of Criminology South West events, and when appropriate, at national
 and international conferences. Apart from the ESRC Festival of Social Science (noted above),
 PhD students played an integral role in the British Society of Criminology national conference 2015
 and the International Network for Hate Studies biennial conference 2020, hosted by the University
 and organised by members of the CJS research group. PhD students were part of the organising
 committees and helped review abstracts for inclusion in both Postgraduate and Main conferences,
 which attracted 300 and 530 international delegates respectively.

 Postgraduate students (2) have become members of the national Postgraduate Committee of the
 British Society of Criminology. They have taken on leadership roles within the Society and
 subsequently organised events, including the national annual Postgraduate Conference and
 events such as Thinking Differently about Harm at the University of Chester (2019) and, Thinking
 differently about methods: challenging research in challenging times at Staffordshire University
 (2020).

 Equality and Diversity
 The University of Plymouth is committed to equality and diversity and has comprehensive support
 structures in place to support, enable and empower all colleagues. All staff are required to
 undertake equal opportunity and unconscious bias training. The #CHITCHAT initiative and CJS
 research group have been committed to equality and diversity in delivery of their strategic aims
 and research portfolio. The staff in our teams are diverse in representing a gender split of
 46.7%:53.3% (m:f) and leadership positions have been held in equal proportions by men and
 women. Representatives from the research initiatives and clusters have contributed to discussions
 of and planning within the Athena Swan agenda that is currently being prepared for submission
 within the new School of Society and Culture. The research group has a commitment to gender
 neutrality and as such have, in line with recent recruitment, ensured facilities, language, and
 expectations are gender-neutral, to foster a supportive and inclusive environment. The unit does
 however lack BAME staff (6.7% of population), which is recognised as problematic, although
 reflective of the South West England population. While research staff are largely white British,
 there is cultural diversity with 30% of colleagues identifying as variously Brazilian, Greek, Dutch
 and American. The research group acknowledges the needs and opportunities provided by a
 diverse community of scholars committed to research activity that challenges prejudice and
 discrimination. The research cluster, Vulnerability and Inequality draws together research across
 the unit on issues of diversity and inclusion that engages all members of the research unit with an
 appreciation of issues in this area and requires reflection on them. As noted above, James sits on
 the steering group of the Race Matters network of the British Society of Criminology and is co-
 Director of the International Network for Hate Studies. Her work with colleagues across the
 research unit has engaged them in a Faculty initiative to embed research-led teaching on diversity
 and inclusion into Induction and personal tutelage for all students via the Stronger Together:
 Supporting a Sustainable and Professional Learning Environment project.

 All research-active staff have equal access to conference attendance funding, subject to
 application via robust processes that are coordinated and overseen by the Associate Head of
 School for Research but include research staff from all career points in the review process.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Furthermore, all staff have equal opportunity to apply for seed-corn funding subject to equally
 robust and inclusive processes.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Law UoA has received and spent £150,879 funding from UK based charity open competitions
 and UK government during the REF census period. Our infrastructure recognises the capture of
 income as an essential element of sustainability, and the capacity of the unit to attain funding
 continues to grow, with projects funded through the end of this REF cycle and into the next totalling
 over £500,000. Collaborative working with colleagues in national networks and within the
 University to facilitate inter-disciplinary research funding has resulted in successful grant
 attainment. In 2020, James was awarded an ESRC research grant, with colleagues at the London
 School of Economics and the University of East Anglia, (£993,355; £309,741 for the University of
 Plymouth), for an inter-disciplinary study entitled, Gypsy and Traveller Experiences of Crime and
 Justice Since the 1960s: A Mixed Methods Study. In addition, in 2019 James was part of a Horizon
 2020 successful grant application for a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Innovative Training
 Network, NetHATE, that constitutes funding for £3 million across 10 European Universities to
 appoint 14 PhD students. The research students will complete their PhDs on a breadth of issues
 relating to the issue of ‘hate’ in contemporary society, carry out research training together, sharing
 research findings and consequently informing knowledge and leadership on challenging hate in
 the future. This research has a value of £260,144 to the University of Plymouth (postponed to
 2021 due to COVID-19) but also augments Plymouth’s position at the heart of international
 developments in research on hate studies. James’ grant capture charts its genesis to her national
 reputation for research with Gypsies, Travellers and Roma, and her engagement with the Race
 Matters network of the British Society of Criminology, utilising these connections to develop the
 research project parameters that led to the successful ESRC funding evidenced above.
 Concurrent with the national research bid, James’ role as Co-Director of the International Network
 for Hate Studies and active engagement with that network to present her research with McBride
 on critical hate studies at international conferences, resulted in her being invited to bid for the
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Innovative Training Network with its successful outcome in 2019.
 Other researchers across the unit have utilized their networks and successful regional initiatives,
 such as engagement in the ESRC funded Festival of Social Science, to attract further funding.
 Lowther’s close links with regulators in fisheries and heritage have secured grants of £4,000,
 £32,000 and £30,000 respectively for projects reflecting the environment and harm expertise of
 the group that has culminated in impactful research evidenced in Lowther’s impact case study
 (ICS1).

 Successful applications for University seed-corn funding have been exploited to gain access to
 wider research environments, impactful working and to inform larger research bids. Between
 2017-2019 a team of SoLCG academics conducted research at Dartmoor prison on the invitation
 of the Governor. The report - Dartmoor Dialogues: An exploration of Dartmoor’s journey towards
 becoming an integrated prison underpinned by restorative practices - was published in June 2020.
 A pilot study the research was funded by three University research facilitation grants: SoLCG
 (£4882.50); Institute of Health (£2451.50); and CJS (£2000). Gray continues to work with
 colleagues from the Universities of Leicester and Cambridge, and the Governor of Dartmoor
 Prison to submit a larger scale research council funding application on how the rehabilitation
 culture at Dartmoor Prison can be strengthened following the creation of an ‘enabling environment’
 in two wings of the Prison. Other successful funding applications include: BA Small Grant for


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research on foreign national workers in the night-time economy (Smith); ESRC Festival of Social
 Science funding (Lowther); consultancy on working with troubled families and restorative practice
 for Plymouth City Council and Southampton City Council (James).

 Plymouth’s Law Unit is highly responsive to current events and issues, placing it at the forefront
 of key criminological issues. For example, the decision in 2016 for Britain to leave the EU posed
 several interesting questions for lawyers and criminologists. Having identified this specific
 research problem, the Unit arranged a conference and workshop on the need for a ‘Brexit
 Criminology’, inviting interdisciplinary guest speakers to talk about the potential for Brexit to impact
 housing, immigration and hate crime among other topics. Members of the unit successfully
 undertook guest editorship of the Safer Communities journal for a ‘Brexit Criminology’ special
 issue and used this success to apply for internal impact funding (£18,000), with the prospect for
 external funding applications to follow. James’ and D. Smith’s (Anglia Ruskin) article from this
 event, ‘Roma inclusion post-Brexit: a challenge to existing rhetoric?’, also won an Emerald Literati
 award for ‘Outstanding Paper’. In 2018, von Berg implemented this same process model on the
 issue of interviewing child suspects, particularly in the context of new threats posed by county
 lines drug markets. This event, ‘Listening to Children in Trouble with the Law’, led to multiple
 international and interdisciplinary communications on how best to access research funding and
 pursue the issues raised by the symposium further. In addition, a PhD student within the research
 group reported the event as a peer-reviewed paper in the journal, Plymouth Law and Criminal
 Justice Review.

 Research funding applications are completed with the comprehensive support of the University
 funding advisory service and the excellent research advisors, who work with academics
 throughout the process of applying for research and in its delivery. Business partners within the
 finance, legal services and human resources support the delivery of research from completion of
 collaboration agreements and appointment of research staff to the facilitation of research
 dissemination. Within Faculties, research administration teams provide advice and guidance on
 the research process, provide event support and identify best practice. Librarians ensure provision
 of resources to enable and underpin funding applications. These various mechanisms have
 contributed effectively to the delivery of research and engagement by UoA staff throughout this
 REF period.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The #CHITCHAT initiative and CJS research group have encouraged and supported membership
 of national and international networks to generate opportunities for collaboration with colleagues
 from other esteemed institutions.

 A series of seminars and dissemination events have been a key element of our approach to
 facilitating stimulating and effective exchanges between academic researchers and wider national
 and international academia, as well as civil society and the public sector. Our Faculties, SoLCG,
 and the British Society of Criminology South West branch, which has led South West criminology
 from the University of Plymouth, have supported these events. Presentation of our research
 through a range of events, as previously noted, has built sustained collaborations with local,
 national and international environments, including staffing connections. Our Visiting Professor
 White, from Tasmania, has emboldened and informed research initiatives in the school relating to


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 green criminology. Locally, the Plymouth Law Clinic and the Sustainable Social Justice initiative
 have augmented research with agencies, including connections with Victim Support in the South
 West that is embedded into delivery of research-led teaching and the set-up of a Student Victim
 Support Service in the University. Further, in 2016 a Prison Reform Forum was held by members
 of the Governance, Penality and Policing research cluster, with presentations from the Chief
 Inspector of Prisons and the Deputy Director of the Prison Reform Trust. This was part of an
 initiative that fostered vibrant and collaborative research partnerships with criminal justice
 agencies and networks at regional and national levels that informed research collaboration and
 publication.

 Other activities include the 50 Years 50 Voices event in association with Devon and Cornwall
 Police that celebrated the force’s 50th anniversary since amalgamation; North Devon magistrates
 project to collect the testimony of former magistrates; and, 7 witness seminars on themes of
 policing and crime in the South West. Witness seminars have included: Post-PACE: Police and
 Policing in the South West and Law, and as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science, Crime
 and Dark Tourism in the South West. Innovative methods of engaging the public with their crime
 heritage include the creation of virtual realities, such as a convict ship based on original drawings,
 a Tavistock courtroom, and a prison cell based on the original in Bodmin Jail. These have been
 showcased via partnerships with Bodmin Jail museum and Devonport Guildhall and underpin a
 funding project in association with Dalhousie University and Tasmania University on transportation
 from the South West. In addition, Heritage Lottery funding of £10,000 supported the Women in
 Power project that is a community-led project by the Hoe Neighbourhood Forum. Its first event in
 2019 was attended by 450 people in its first 3 hours.

 Research staff within the #CHITCHAT initiative and CJS research group have contributed to the
 disciplines of law, criminology and socio-legal studies by acting as PhD external examiners (18 in
 the period) in the UK and internationally, including University of Limerick, Ireland; Flinders
 University, Australia; University of Birmingham; Cardiff University; University of Leicester;
 Teesside University.

 Stevenson and Visiting Prof. Rowbotham are the founding Directors, in 1999, of SOLON, which
 represents a cross-disciplinary academic-professional partnership providing a focus for
 international interdisciplinary research and application of that research to a range of issues and
 problems, past and present. Through engaging lawyers, criminologists and historians in research,
 in collaboration with multi-media technicians, SOLON has served as a hub for dissemination of
 research generated via multiple events, activities, a website and journal of Law Crime and History.
 They are also members of crime history networks including Our Criminal Past and Digital
 Panopticon.

 James is Co-Director and Board Member of the International Network for Hate Studies that aims
 to provide an accessible forum through which individuals and groups can engage with the study
 of hate and hate crime in a manner that is both scholarly and accessible to all. Its biennial
 conferences, held internationally and hosted online by the University of Plymouth in 2020, attract
 academics and practitioners from across the global north and south and board members are
 regularly called upon to advise and comment on practice and policy at national, international and
 supra-national levels.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The dynamic nature of our research is evidenced through the extensive number of conferences,
 workshops and symposia we have organised, many of which are noted above. Of particular note,
 in 2015, Plymouth hosted the British Society of Criminology national conference, with an excess
 of 300 international delegates. This event also resulted in the creation of the BSC Critical
 Criminology network. As previously noted, the International Network for Hate Studies biennial
 conference was hosted in partnership with the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in
 Europe in 2020. We also hosted the prestigious international annual Britain and the World
 conference 2020 in association with the Mayflower Quadrennial and the UK Environmental Law
 Association annual conference online in 2020.

 The University of Plymouth has hosted the British Society of Criminology South West Branch since
 2009 supporting activities within the CJS and a national profile. Further, members of the research
 group have significant involvement in multiple British Society of Criminology networks. Smith co-
 Chairs their Critical Criminology Network and Channing sits on the steering group of the Historical
 Criminology Network. James was involved in the creation of the Race Matters Network in 2019
 and sits on the Steering Group and Milne sits on the Women, Crime and Criminal Justice Network.
 Through her role in the Race Matters network, James has collaborated on 2 research bids as
 noted above. In addition, the Deviant Leisure Blog (Smith, Raymen) and associated networking
 has resulted in an edited collection with Palgrave (2019), a book series with Emerald, and an
 annual stream at the American Society of Criminology conference.

 Despite being a relatively small unit, researchers in law and criminology have collectively
 published over 60 refereed journal articles, 31 book chapters, 6 monographs, 4 edited books, and
 2 special issues of journals since 2014. Smith and James are on the Editorial board of the Journal
 of Contemporary Crime, Harm, and Ethics. Smith is on the Editorial board of Critical Criminology,
 and with James co-edited the Brexit Criminology special issue of Safer Communities in 2017.
 Stevenson is on the Editorial Board of Nottingham Law Journal, and Lowther is a long-time
 editorial board member of the Journal of Environmental Law and Management. Invitations to
 review articles from international 3 and 4* journals include International Journal of Law in Context,
 Victorian Periodicals Review, American Journal of Legal History, British Journal of Criminology,
 Theoretical Criminology, Punishment and Society, European Journal of Criminology, Youth
 Justice: An International Journal, Criminology and Criminal Justice, Feminist Legal Studies and
 The Journal of Consumer Culture. All research-active staff regularly peer-review journal articles.

 Researchers in the unit co-edit a number of book series, most notably Emerald Studies in Deviant
 Leisure (Smith, Raymen) and the Routledge SOLON book series (Stevenson and Visiting Prof.
 Rowbotham). Stevenson and Rowbotham and Channing have co-edited the journal Law Crime
 and History from its inception.

 Researchers in the unit have delivered 9 conference keynote presentations at international and
 national conferences. Notable examples are: ECR Raymen (British Society of Criminology
 Postgraduate Conference, Birmingham 2018); Channing (Institute of British Studies, Berlin,
 2019); James (Project PDP4 Integrated approach for preventing victimization in Roma
 communities, Bucharest, Romania, 2016; Gypsy and Traveller Coalition Conference, UCLAN,
 2018); Smith (National Conference on Harm and Deviance, York, 2016); and, Stevenson
 (Historical Criminology, Leeds Becket 2018; Historical Child Sexual Abuse, Kent, 2017).




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Most members of #CHITCHAT and the CJS research group serve as peer reviewers for funding
 bodies including Gray, James, Lowther, Smith, and Stevenson who are ESRC peer reviewers.
 Similarly, Stevenson is an ARC peer reviewer, and Lowther is a Norwegian Research Council
 peer Reviewer. James peer reviews for the EHRC and Smith reviews for the British
 Academy/Leverhulme.




                                                                                   Page 15
