Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: C-21 Sociology


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Located within the Faculty of Social Sciences, sociology at the University of Sheffield is a diverse,
interdisciplinary sociological community. Incorporating the Department of Sociological Studies
and four members of the Social Methods Institute (an interdisciplinary institute created with
significant external funding to lead national social research methods innovation) we reflect the
wider orientations of sociology by adopting an inclusive, ‘big tent’ interpretation of the discipline
that brings together sociology, social policy, digital media, science and technology studies,
social research methods, criminology, and social work.

This pluralist approach to the discipline facilitates a public-facing, applied sociological imagination
and our commitment to producing global, field-leading theoretical, empirical and impactful
research. Our research has strong social justice orientations and a demonstrable practical utility in
the real world with high levels of engagement with non-academic publics including those in policy,
clinical and professional practice and commerce.

In this assessment period we have focused on the growth of our disciplinary sub-fields, in particular
expanding into digital media and enhancing sociology. This strategy of subject area growth and
enhancement has involved a significant increase in research active staff at all career stages
(from 27 to 43). Alongside this growth we focused on increasing the level of grant capture, and
succeeded in tripling our annual research income from UKRI and research charities.

Reflecting our research strengths, we also play a central role in the wider University and Faculty
research environment. We provide the leadership for the University’s flagship Healthy Lifespan
Institute (HELSI) and for two of the Faculty’s interdisciplinary research centres: Centre for
International Research on Care, Labour and Equalities (CIRCLE) and Institute of the Study of
the Human (iHuman). Three core Faculty research networks, the Digital Society Network, the
Health Equity and Inclusion Research Group and the Migration Research Group, are all led
by staff in the Unit. We have also provided research leadership: since 2016 Reed is Faculty PGR
Director.

1.1 Research structure

We have built sustainability through an inclusive, ambitious and strongly developmental research
culture, with an emphasis on facilitation and support. Our research community is organised through
four strategically embedded research themes that were established in this assessment period:
Everyday Life and Critical Diversities; Science, Technology and Medicine in Society; Social
Inequalities and Social Ordering; Health and Wellbeing Across the Life course. These
themes reflect the distinct yet cohesive areas of sociological research taking place in the Unit and
provide the architecture for maintaining our interdisciplinary and inclusive research culture, as well
as generating step-change research initiatives, informing our research priorities and contribute to
developing research leadership within the Unit and beyond.

The themes represent shared areas of research activity and strength, and staff are encouraged to
participate within and across the research portfolio and can ‘belong’ to one or more theme. The
                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
open and dynamic nature of the research themes helps generate a supportive and collegiate
research environment in which staff are aware of, and familiar with, each other’s research work.
This participatory structure creates multiple opportunities for colleagues to engage in
interdisciplinary dialogue around ethics, methodological innovations, new research findings and
outcomes. This has encouraged collaborative research bids, successfully targeting a diverse range
of external research funding bodies.

Each theme has a clear and sustainable strategy, with early and mid-career researchers
appointed as Theme Leaders through a process of application and selection, and with
appropriate workload recognition for these roles. There is particular emphasis on ensuring PGRs
are active members of the themes. The Theme Leaders ensure strategic direction, and
collaboratively arrange varied programmes of research seminars, workshops and public events.
These involve internal and external scholars and a range of high profile, established, mid-career
and early career researchers (ECRs), as well as non-academic stakeholders.

1.2 Developing a research community and strategy

The underlying principles of our research strategy are to deliver transformative, social change
research that can tackle inequalities while developing distinctive epistemological and
methodological understanding. This commitment reflects both our intellectual breadth and our
integrative approach to working across disciplinary sub-fields.

Over this assessment period we have continued to sustain our established areas of research
excellence, such as health, ageing and life course, that were recognised in REF2014. At the same
time we have expanded areas of strength in sociology such as migration and diversities, science
and technology, and developed new sub-fields such as digital media. This approach to
sustainability vitally reflects our post-2014 research strategy which is based on the following
priorities:

   •   Increase the number of high-quality academic staff across early, mid, and senior career
       stages to sustain, complement and expand our critical mass in key areas of substantive
       and methods expertise.

   •   Provide a field-leading research environment that is effective in attracting significant
       numbers of high quality internal and external postgraduate research students (PGRs)
       and integrating them into an inclusive research community.

   •   Develop and extend our signature areas of research strength and capacity through a
       focus on themes, networks, centres and research leadership within the Unit and in the
       wider University research environment.

   •   Build a developmental-focused, creative, and productive research environment
       through a cohesive interdisciplinary theme structure which can generate new collaborations
       and research directions and transformational advances within (and across) our sub-fields.

   •   Increase our levels of research income from a diverse range of funding organisations
       and at all levels of academic career stage (Section 3)

   •   Work within a culture of equality, diversity, and inclusion to prioritise a critical, reflexive,
       and diverse research environment which embeds the themes of representation, voice
       and difference into research processes and public engagement strategies.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Facilitate and increase the number of world-class research outputs and contributions
       across a range of peer reviewed sociological and related disciplinary publications and
       reports.

   •   Encourage and develop a broad-based public engagement and impact culture through
       collaborative partnerships with diverse end user/ stakeholder communities. This will
       continue to provide a basis for expanding impact skills for all staff, as well as developing
       effective impact.

We have successfully pursued each of these strategies as the following developments highlight:

   •   Staff growth is reflected in the successful recruitment and appointment of 13 early career
       lectureship posts, four mid-career posts, nine chair posts (including three professorial
       fellows) and nine externally funded research fellowships between 2014-2020.

   •   An increase in the number of high-quality PGRs funded through RCUK and other
       external studentships and an 80% increase in PhD completions.

   •   A significant growth in external research income. Our total income across all research
       funders in the assessment period is £9.4M. This is a 97% increase on our £4.8M total
       income in REF2014. This growth includes the trebling of our annual income from
       Research Councils and UK Charities.

   •   Establishing an inclusive research environment, an emphasis on staff development
       through annual one-to-one research planning meetings, supportive grant application and
       output review processes, mentoring, study leave management and protecting 40%
       research time. This has led to a highly productive research environment, as our enhanced
       track record of grant capture evidences. It has generated an environment in which staff
       have been supported to deliver a range of high-quality published outputs, and engage in a
       variety of wider high-quality research related activities.

   The establishment of an ambitious and confident research environment with growing research
   capacity has enabled staff to define and lead global, interdisciplinary research agendas in
   social science fields. Key examples include:

   1. Yeandle directs the Faculty-based Centre for International Research on Care, Labour and
      Equalities, and its flagship programme ‘Sustainable Care: Connecting People and
      System’, a multi-disciplinary ESRC-funded programme (2017-2021). This programme
      explores how care arrangements, currently ‘in crisis’ in parts of the UK, can be made
      sustainable and deliver wellbeing outcomes.

   2. Walker co-directs the University’s newly established flagship Healthy Lifespan Institute,
      which aims to achieve a step change in understanding biological and social under-pinning
      of age-related disease and to develop new policies, practices, and products to intervene at
      different stages of the life course.

   3. Martin co-directs the Faculty’s interdisciplinary centre, iHuman which aims to promote
      ‘risky conversations’ about being human in the assessment period of rapid technological,
      social and political change. It integrates expertise from across the social sciences, the
      humanities and STEM subjects.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   4. Unit staff lead three key interdisciplinary Faculty research networks which have grown out
      of our world leading work on health, digital societies, and migration. Kennedy is the Director
      of the Digital Society Network, Kilkey is Director of the Migration Research Group and
      Salway leads the globally focused Health Equity and Inclusion Research Group.

   5. As Faculty PGR Director, Reed has provided research leadership on a series
      of improvement and enhancement initiatives within the postgraduate research community
      and the White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) - a collaboration of seven
      universities led by Sheffield.

These research activities are supported and managed through a series of interconnected
governance structures led by the Director of Research and supported by a small Research
Leadership Group, made up of the Head of Department, an Impact Lead, a REF Co-ordinator,
and the managers of the research support services team (the Hub). In addition, we have a
Research Committee and four Research Theme Leaders (who are all members of the
Research Committee). While the Director of Research and Research Leadership Group members
are senior academic roles, the Research Committee - which manages and reviews research
processes and policy development - consists of a mix of senior, mid and early career academics,
and, as noted above, the Research Theme Leaders are all mid or early career academics. The
management of the research environment therefore uses a strategic leadership model but
one which is representative and transparent. Research governance is overseen by the
Executive Committee and is monitored by Faculty and University research structures.


1.3 Developing impact and engagement

In this assessment period we have continued to develop a strong impact orientated culture. The
success of this is evidenced by Reed winning the 2019 ESRC Prize for Outstanding Impact in
Society and Warren being runner-up in 2014. The strength of our embedded impact culture can
also be seen in one of our impact case studies being led by an ECR (Gerrard). We have focused
on building and integrating impact as a core ‘everyday’ aspect of our research activities and plans.
To do so, we have adopted a strategy to increase understanding and knowledge of impact
alongside the development of user and stakeholder networks. Much of this takes place through
training workshops and seminar events, as well as allocating financial, time and staffing resources
to support engagement work at local, national and global scales.

Our commitment to translating research into impact, and to public-facing sociology, has enabled
our success in consolidating a broad-based approach to impact (Section 4) and facilitated the
submission of four diverse, mixed career stage case studies. Each illustrates our capacity to
engage with a range of partners and publics are embedded in our research themes and expertise.
For example, both Reed’s (award winning) impact and Salway’s case study both reflect our
strength in the sociology of health and medicine, as well as demonstrating an ability to work with
very diverse patient, community and practitioner stakeholders. The social inequalities and child
welfare focus of Morris’s case study grows from our strengthened focus on inequalities and its
longstanding commitment to social justice and policy and practice change. Gerrard’s case study on
digital life represents the more recent area of digital media research expertise within our science,
technologies and medicine theme in this assessment period, as well as exemplifying impact
orientated partnerships with global social media companies.

This vision of impact and the fostering of a strong impact culture has been supported by substantial
investment since 2014: ~£1M has been invested in impact training in the Faculty, and the

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development of networks and partnerships that create ongoing dialogue between researchers and
users. We have received support for impact through the appointment of a dedicated full-time
postdoctoral Research Impact Associate (RIA) who works closely with academic colleagues to
facilitate engagement with external organisations and to maximise the benefits from this
collaboration. Knowledge exchange (KE) and impact is supported at Faculty level by the External
Engagement Team, which provides significant financial resource within the Faculty. These include:

   •   Sheffield Solutions: events which bring together policymakers, practitioners, and social
       science perspectives to tackle pressing policy issues. Our staff (White, Morris, Mason,
       Foster) have been very active and have helped to establish a number of key relationships
       with government departments, most notably the Department for Work & Pensions.

   •   The Festival of Social Sciences which we have made consistent contributions to during
       this assessment period (Section 4).

   •   Crook Fellowships: an inter-sectoral mobility scheme, supported by a donation to the
       University by Emeritus Professor ADH Crook, the Crook Public Service Fellowships allow a
       cohort of established professionals (typically from the public or third sector) to work closely
       with an academic team in conducting a piece of applied research around a thematic area.
       Previous themes have included ‘Children’s Chances’, ‘Disability and Disadvantage’, and
       ‘Regional Inequalities’. Our staff have offered academic leadership in the last two rounds of
       Crook Fellowships, with the scheme helping to develop sustained collaborations with a
       range of organisations, including Social Work England, Gingerbread, and the Child Brain
       Injury Trust.

In this assessment period we have also repeatedly accessed resources such as the Higher
Education Innovation Fund and the Impact Acceleration Account to support KE and impact
activities. This has included two grants to support the New Zealand Ministry of Justice to
develop a young adult specialist court that is responsive to the needs of those with
neurodevelopmental impairment (Hughes).

While our impact case studies illustrate the range of our public facing research achievements,
every research active member of staff is encouraged and expected to develop impact and
engagement activities. These activities are a focus of the annual research planning meetings and
biannual impact workshops are delivered by the RIA and the academic Impact Lead and our
impact strategy involves making resources available to staff for engagement, KE and impact
activities. We also benefit from centrally provided resource for the RIA role with the postholder
developmentally managed – for example, of the two postholders one has secured a Research
Fellowship position (Henegan) and one was successful in her 2020 ESRC postdoctoral fellowship
bid (Towers).

Recognising the importance of the relationship between research impact and the ability of
researchers to engage wider publics, working with the faculty-level networks and centres, we host
four annual high-profile public lectures to facilitate knowledge exchange: the John Westergaard
Sociology Lecture, the Social Work Lecture, the Digital Society Lecture, and the Social
Policy and Society Lecture. These are open lectures and advertised to wider publics and target
non-academic partners and have all been successful in attracting a wide range of community,
professional and practitioner audiences. The visibility of impact and engagement has also been
raised by a dedicated impact page added to our website which highlights the wide range of impact
related activities and partnerships.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Since 2014 we have also rolled out initiatives to enhance our external and global research
networks and our public-facing profile. These are discussed further in Section 3.


1.4 Open research and research integrity

We are committed to the principles of accessible research and the value of an open research
culture, and actively support a culture of open scholarship. As part of this and the wider sector’s
commitment to a ‘creative commons’, journal outputs are available in our institutional repository -
created 13 years ago - and the Faculty has supported Gold Open Access for all outputs assessed
as potentially being internationally recognised. This builds on a strong commitment at University
level to open scholarship. Our staff are committed to making their work available to non-academic
audiences using a range of social and traditional media. Our research blog is an example of this
strategy to increase awareness of our research and make it easily accessible in ways that go
beyond REF requirements and traditional OA publishing. Engaging and generating accessible
research activities forms part of our staff development and impact strategy, and is included in our
annual staff performance review and target setting process.

We have robust procedures for ensuring the ethical conduct of research and its proper
governance. We have an ethics lead, who is responsible for ensuring the implementation and
development of research ethics policies and ethics approval practices. The ethics lead is a
member of Research Committee and every 4-5 years the University Research Ethics Committee
undertakes an audit and review of our ethics practices and procedures. Such a review was
satisfactorily completed in 2019 and our maintenance of a rigorous ethics approval process noted.

There is Faculty guidance for staff completing ethics applications, and ‘policy notes and guidance
papers’ covering specific ethical issues such as social media data, vulnerable participants and data
protection. All research-active staff must undertake the ethics reviewer training and be familiar with
the University ethics policy and its updates.

To ensure open and ethically responsible research we support and encourage good research
practice in a number of ways. For example, our internal peer review processes of research bids
but also of outputs prior to submission and the regular presentation of research within the Unit
ensures that there is wider transparency, dialogue and collegiate scrutiny of research
processes. Our induction programme for new staff helps orientate them to our open research
culture and our mentoring strategy (Section 2) provides an opportunity for one-to-one support and
advice, and reinforces best research practice and learning.

1.5 Sustaining research futures

Our research sustainability plans reflect, and grow out of, the current achievements and
trajectories of this assessment period. The strategic priorities for the future development of our
research excellence and vitality involve an ambitious programme of work in the following areas:

   1. Maintaining and sustaining a high-quality staff group with a well-balanced early, mid,
      and senior career profile. In particular, the staffing strategy will focus on: the internal
      development and promotion of all existing staff from PGR to professorial level; appointing
      the strongest early career staff; and making senior, field-leading appointments in areas of
      emergent strength.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   2. Continuing to embed and prioritise equality, diversity, and inclusion as central to
      generating research excellence and tackling inequalities. The effectiveness of this
      approach will be evidenced in the diversity of our staff recruitment and the equities of
      career progression as well as in the diversity of the research stakeholders and beneficiaries
      who collaborate with us.

   3. Providing a creative and dynamic research environment in which staff are facilitated and
      supported, through staff development, study leave, mentoring, review and dialogic
      processes, to generate world-leading research outputs with reach and significance to
      sustain disciplinary and interdisciplinary development. We will continue to emphasize
      collaborative research, methodological innovation, knowledge exchange, and open
      research. As a core aspect of this research culture we will continue to cultivate confident
      research leadership.

   4. Extending and developing our reach and profile through world-class interdisciplinary
      contributions. This will involve supporting and promoting the thematic priorities of health
      and well-being across the life course, social inequalities and ordering, critical diversities and
      everyday life, science and technology, as well as expanding newer areas of research
      strength around digital media and digital sociology, migration and social care.

   5. Continuing to increase levels of research income across our existing and emergent
      research strengths. The strategy for securing external research income will continue to be
      driven through the targeting of a diversity of funders, with an emphasis on research
      councils and charities and social sector research funding organisations (Section 3). We will
      retain existing support and review mechanisms to enable staff to develop and lead the
      highest quality interdisciplinary small and large grant and centre programmes.

   6. Enhancing our public-facing approach to sociology through the sustained emphasis on
      collaborative and open research. Building on our existing impact and knowledge exchange
      with a diverse range of stakeholders, partners, and end users at local, regional, national,
      and global levels, we will cultivate research excellence-based impact, collaborative working
      and wider engagement in such areas as health, diversities, digital media, and social
      inequalities.

   7. Investing in our future capacity and the discipline, we will continue to provide a research
      environment that is effective in attracting high quality internal and external PGRs. Particular
      goals include ensuring the success of the Stuart Hall Foundation studentships (these are
      ‘ring-fenced’ for applicants from culturally diverse and disadvantaged backgrounds
      conducting doctoral research resonant with the work of Stuart Hall), maintaining our
      success in collaborative studentship awards, developing routes for more professional PhD
      applicants to gain funded studentships and encouraging research bids with PhD
      studentships attached to them. We remain committed to providing PGRs with
      comprehensive, sector leading doctoral training and research and teaching opportunities
      that facilitate their future careers.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People


2.1 Staffing and staff development

Over this assessment period we have undergone considerable expansion with an almost 60%
increase in the number of research-active academic staff, from 27 to 43. This growth has been
underpinned by a recruitment strategy geared towards helping us achieve four key ambitions:

   1. To add depth and breadth to our research strengths consistent with our commitment to a
      genuinely interdisciplinary environment.

   2. To develop early, mid, and senior research active staff in our established and newer
      areas of research strength and to support the sustainability of the core interdisciplinary sub-
      fields.

   3. To invest significantly in early and mid-career appointments to ensure our future
      sustainability.

   4. To grow our external research income and secure additional resource to sustain and
      support research excellence in both outputs and impact and engagement.

We have enhanced the diversity of our research base by purposive recruitment in such areas
as digital media, critical diversities and sociology of health and wellbeing. We have recruited at all
grades, including outstanding ECRs, some appointed directly from our own PGR programme. At
Chair level there have been a series of targeted appointments across growth subject areas like
sociology (Neal, Hines, Ryan, Yeandle), digital societies (Kennedy) and health (Salway) alongside
social work and child and youth welfare (Morris, White, Hughes). This is in addition to early and
mid-career appointments in all of our research strength areas and in particular to digital societies
and sociology (Rogers, Highfield, Richardson, Gerrard, Smith, L’Hoiry, Lewis, Holman, Martinez-
Perez, Mayblin, Szulc, Dillon, Smeeton, Walsh, Vicari). We have had notable success in securing
independent research fellowships including ESRC postdoctoral fellowships (White, Towers), an
AHRC fellowship (Serafinelli), Leverhulme Trust fellowships (Pearce, Carter), NIHR School for
Public Health Research postdoctoral fellowship (Villarroel-Williams) and Wellcome Trust
fellowships (Williams, Ross, Orton). This success has resulted in significant investment from the
Faculty and University in supporting posts through highly competitive research fellowships and
centre directorships (Hughes, Salway, Ryan, Martin, Walker, Yeandle, Lewis).

Individual developmental support is a key aspect of our strategy for achieving field-leading
research excellence. This is facilitated in a number of ways:

We have established a range of internal peer review processes provide quality enhancing
feedback for pre-submission outputs intended for academic journals and for every research bid to
an external research organisation. Embedding a widespread practice of peer review between
colleagues has strengthened writing and bidding, but also created a wider awareness of
colleagues’ work and contributed to a collegiate research environment. The success of this
approach is evident in the outstanding level of grant capture (Section 3) and the quality and
quantity of outputs published in top quartile journals. All UKRI bids must undergo an additional
peer review process at faculty level.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff are formally supported in their research planning and target setting through annual (with
optional follow-up) Research Planning Meetings, which provide a one-to-one forum for a reflexive
discussion of research-related achievements, challenges over a current year and research plans
and priorities for the coming year. They are developmentally orientated and inform the annual Staff
Review and Development Scheme meeting that individual staff have with the Head. While this
involves a wider review of activities, it is also the process in which research objectives are
identified and set as achievable targets.

Alongside the peer review and research planning processes we established an ‘active mentoring’
scheme in which all staff are allocated a mentor with an expectation of regular one-to-one
meetings. The supportive work done through these meetings includes identifying and reviewing
research and career plans, and providing counsel and guidance on research goals, giving
feedback on research bids, book proposals and journal papers. Sharing networks and career
experience is also an important aspect of the mentoring relationship. The mentor scheme is
designed to be flexible and adaptive if research and career plans change and is regularly reviewed
through the research planning meetings with individual staff. Our approach to mentoring has been
shared as a best practice model across the Faculty.

To enable staff a sustained period of time and space to develop high-quality outputs and research
bids all staff are eligible for study leave in line with University policy, which provides one semester
of study leave every seven semesters. This is a well-used process and 35 periods of study leave
were taken during the assessment period. Longer periods are given to those who have had
particularly intense teaching or leadership roles which have impacted on their 40% research time
(e.g. Martin, Reed, Neal).

In addition to the traditional study leave system, we have implemented a creative system for
strategic short study leave periods. The short study leave scheme (up to 3 weeks) has been
designed to be more adaptive to the realities of time-limited research bidding and writing deadlines.
They enable staff to take time to prepare a full bid after progressing to a second round or create
space to meet a particular deadline. Both schemes have been successful – for example,
Kennedy’s 2018/19 study leave focused on preparing her successful Nuffield and AHRC
applications, and Davies was able to use the short study leave to prepare her successful ESRC
Governance After Brexit Phase 1 bid.

Staff are encouraged and expected to work collaboratively within and between units and faculty
networks and are supported in secondment opportunities to faculty centres such as iHuman and
CIRCLE and the Healthy Lifespan Institute (Section 1).

All staff have had access to their own personal research budget. This has enabled conference
participation, as well as pump-priming research-related activities such as interview transcription,
seminar and workshop hosting and research bid team building and KE activities (funds are also
available to PGRs). PGRs are provided with a range of supported and integrated opportunities for
development through seminars, workshops, conference funding and organising symposia (e.g. two
2017, 2018 BSA early career forums and funded events, the Sheffield Student Journal for
Sociology and PGR summer school).

We have taken a sustainability approach to developing opportunities for building research
leadership experience within our research environment infrastructure and to assist the
succession planning. For example, the research Theme Leader roles open up routes for gaining
research leadership skills and capacities as do the research centres and networks. These


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
initiatives are key to our approach to embedding sustainability though leadership development and
are very much in line with the ESRC’s (2019) Fit for the Future research leadership strategic
priority area.

These mentorship, review processes, resource provision and developing leadership approaches
are also central to our broader strategy of support for ECRs and reflect the University’s
emphasis on providing a highly supportive and developmental environment for them. This is
evidenced in the University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers and its establishment of the ‘Think Ahead’ programme which provides ECR-
targeted developmental initiatives around training, skills and career support. Our ECRs are actively
encouraged to access and benefit from these resources.


2.2 Building a PGR community

We have long recognised the value and contribution of PGRs to our research environment and our
future research capacity and networks. In this context we aim to:

   •   Recruit increased numbers of high quality, funded students, both externally and from our
       undergraduate and Masters programmes;

   •   Provide sector-leading training and development opportunities

   •   Build an inclusive and integrated PGR community which facilitates their research
       achievements and future careers within and outside of academia.

In this assessment period we have had a diverse international and UK cohort of 68 PGRs. The
vast majority of our home/EU and international students now study for a PhD with a funded
studentship, evidencing the high quality of candidate that we successfully recruit. 27 were
awarded ESRC White Rose DTP studentships, 13 University or Faculty studentships, and 16
studentships from other sources, including the Wellcome Trust, Grantham Foundation and
international governments. Our successes in the recruitment of funded PGRs reflects the academic
strength of the candidates attracted to the Unit as well as our supportive and rigorous admissions
process. Further evidence of the success of this approach can be seen in the number of PhD
completions. This has risen by 80%, from 31.5 in REF2014 to 56.66 in this assessment period.

We have a series of web pages dedicated to recruiting high-quality PGRs, with detailed guidelines
and examples of successful proposals helping prospective students to develop strong applications.
Studentship opportunities are promoted to internal and external applicants using social media,
department, and individual staff web pages. We actively encourage our high achieving
undergraduate and postgraduate students to consider our PGR programme. Over the assessment
period our three Masters programmes have provided opportunities to recruit high-quality
candidates. The redesigned Sociology Masters programme (from 2019) specifically includes a
route to enable students wanting to progress to PGR to meet the ESRC 60 credit methods training
requirements and apply for the +3 studentship. PGRs recruited from Masters programmes
contribute to our vitality, having developed strong working relationships with staff members and a
familiarity with our research environment.

We have a well-resourced PGR team, which includes our PGR Director and our PGR Admissions
Lead, who are supported in their work by a PGR administrator. The PGR leadership team reviews
and manages the application process. Candidates are interviewed and supported in the



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development of their proposals and in their scholarship applications and allocated two supervisors,
with appropriate experience and expertise.

Facilitated through the research theme activities, the Theme Leads and supervisors the PGR
community is well integrated into our research environment. For example, PGRs were supported to
successfully apply for funding from the British Sociological Association to deliver a BSA
Postgraduate Forum Regional Event (Material Culture in Everyday Life 2019) and to jointly
organise a series of sociological walks for the Everyday Life and Critical Diversities research
theme.

PGR career progression and wider skills development are supported through the summer PGR
conference, through the availability of the University’s PGR publication bursary (a three-month
stipend to enable the preparation of outputs from doctoral work) and through submission of work to
our internal peer review processes for journal articles and research bids. Our PGR community
has established and co-edit a peer-reviewed PGR journal, The Sheffield Student Journal for
Sociology, which provides opportunities for students to gain direct experience of journal writing,
publishing, peer reviewing and editing. Research students’ outputs include papers in peer reviewed
journals, chapters in edited collections and textbooks, research reports, book reviews and such
successes as the award of the ESRC Short Essay Prize in 2017 (White).

Supervision and training

We have adopted a primary model of co-supervision to enhance quality and quantity of
supervision. The model provides ECRs with opportunities to supervise PGRs alongside
experienced supervisors. Reflecting our interdisciplinary strengths, staff are supported to co-
supervise with academic staff in other units and faculties and across the White Rose DTP, a
Sheffield-led consortium that draws on the strengths of seven universities in the region.

We also facilitate and provide opportunities for PGRs to develop teaching experience and
pedagogic skills in years 2 and 3. Our Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) are recruited via a
formal recruitment process and receive formal induction, training and pastoral care from a
dedicated academic tutor.

PGRs are members of the University’s Graduate Research School, providing access to high-
quality training and facilities. A training programme is delivered with input from the White Rose
DTP. Reed as Faculty PGR Director has been in place for the majority of the assessment period
(2016-2020) and has also been involved in working with the WRDTP leadership team and leading
on the setting up of two ring-fenced Stuart Hall Foundation scholarship awards.

Students have access to a Faculty PGR Training Portal where they can access a range of
information and training opportunities across the Faculty, University and WRDTP. This is open to
all students regardless of funding. PGRs must record and evidence training throughout their period
of registration and write a reflection on these at the end of their PhD.

The Doctoral Development Programme helps PGRs progress by providing opportunities to
further develop their skills and experience. It has been created in line with the UK’s Researcher
Development Framework. At the beginning of each academic year, PGRs and their supervisory
team complete a mandatory Training Needs Analysis to identify current and future skills
development. ‘Training in Sociological Studies’ is a PGR dedicated module delivered through
a combination of cohort-based workshops, individual review meetings, and attendance at and



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reflection on discipline-specific research activities within the Unit and at Faculty and University
workshops.

We have a comprehensive series of mechanisms for the monitoring and progression of PGRs,
facilitating our strategy of ensuring completion. The wellbeing of our PGRs is a priority. In
addition to supervisors, the PGR Director acts as a personal tutor to each student, and with
support from the Student Experience Manager, provides another point of responsibility for
pastoral care.

PGRs are further supported through provision of a high-quality, dedicated study space, located
close to the social space which they share with staff. The study and social spaces facilitate
integration of PGRs, providing routine opportunities for informal support. This array of support and
monitoring ensures our strong track record of successful completion, within time limits and with
students passing with no or minor corrections.

Postdoctoral research fellowship opportunities are promoted to students and supervisors via a
dedicated website. Applicants are supported through the same internal review process as for staff,
but with an academic mentor to provide specialist advice. This support has seen notable recent
success, with one Wellcome Trust (Ross) and three ESRC (White, Towers, Marquez)
fellowships in 2019/20.

PGR career destinations include postdoctoral research fellowships (ESRC Postgraduate
Fellowship: White, Towers), PDRAs (e.g. Winter, Sheffield; Heneghan, Nottingham) and
university research positions (e.g. Mason and Webb, Sheffield; Beresford, Sheffield Hallam),
lectureships at international universities (e.g. Tat Chor Au-Yeung, Lingnan University, Hong
Kong), the UK civil service (e.g. Shaw, civil service future leaders scheme) and overseas central
government civil service positions (e.g. Blake, 'Director Division of Ageing' in Trinidad).


2.3 Commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)

We have a strong and established social justice ethos. EDI is a priority area of commitment in all
aspects of our research work, activities, and ambitions.

We have taken an intersectional approach to our EDI work, recognising the relational and
situational ways in which exclusion, marginalised identities and inequalities impact and shape work
environments. We also integrate a life course perspective to equalities issues and have built this
into our EDI approaches. This collective commitment to EDI is reflected in our governance
structures and in the preparation for this submission, as evidenced in the selected outputs and
impact case studies.

We have ensured an equal gender balance in the membership of our REF review team and the
EDI Director is also a member of this committee. All members undertook REF-specific EDI training,
and our internal scoring and output selection processes and outcomes have been regularly
checked for any effects of implicit or unconscious gender, race, sexualities bias. It is worthy of note
that all our impact case studies are led by women (Reed, Salway, Morris and Gerrard) and
include one ECR (Gerrard). We have worked with a transparent and open approach to preparing
our REF submission. All staff received constructive feedback on their research outputs and were
given an opportunity to discuss REF decisions. The impact case study leads have presented in
various forums on their impact work and this environment statement was made accessible to staff.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In terms of our EDI structures, we have an EDI Director who leads and coordinates our EDI
initiatives and policies, leads the work of the EDI Committee, and sits on our Executive
Committee. All formal EDI roles are supported by workload allowances. We have made the EDI
Director a professorial role (it is currently held by Hines, who has expertise in the politics of
difference and inequalities), which ensures our EDI work has appropriate leadership experience
and adds symbolic weight, emphasising the status of the position. EDI has become a standing item
at all research and teaching meetings and away days and Hines provides additional equalities
leadership and gender expertise as an invited member of the University’s EDI Committee.

Our EDI Committee works across a range of inclusion priorities e.g. curriculum and attainment,
staff recruitment and promotion, and harassment and hate crime and established a task team
working on our submission for an Athena SWAN Bronze award. It includes early, mid-career and
senior academics and has representation from professional service staff. In this way EDI works
through a transparent approach and provides all colleagues with a sense of ownership,
involvement and voice in identifying and addressing EDI policies, priorities and concerns. Members
sit on all our key committees including the Research Committee.

We have also been at the fore of University and Faculty EDI initiatives. This includes the role of
Twum-Danso who, as the inaugural chair of the University’s Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
Staff Network, led on the delivery of the Network’s mandate, informing the development and
implementation of the University’s Race Equality Plan as well as advising on monitoring of the
progress of the Plan. The Network now has 133 members.

Mayblin sits on the Faculty decolonisation review steering group having co-led a research project
examining module content, and she is also an advisor to the national Connected Sociologies
Curriculum Project, which is funded by the Sociological Review Foundation to produce open
access teaching resources that examine colonial histories through sociological teaching. In her role
as Faculty PGR Director Reed has led on establishing two Stuart Hall Foundation PGR
scholarship awards. These are ring-fenced awards for Black, ethnic minority and disadvantaged
students and support doctoral research relating to race, ethnicity, cultural studies, and structural
inequalities.

Staff diversity

The EDI Committee has worked to support our commitment to increase the diversity of academic
staff, especially in terms of gender, age, ethnicity, and nationality. This has included a review of our
recruitment practices with the aim to increase the number of applicants from diverse backgrounds
and to address any gender and ethnicity bias in our recruitment processes at job advertisement,
shortlisting and interview stages, including review of our adverts and core criteria, and training of
all those involved in recruitment to reduce unconscious bias against women and ethnic minority
candidates. While the national diversity of staff from the EU and overseas increased during this
assessment period, BAME academics are under-represented. Increasing our ethnic diversity
remains a key target and a core focus for our recruitment and retention priorities.

In relation to gender representation we have had an increasing number of women appointed to full-
time teaching and research posts, with 56% of T&R staff now female. Of the nine professors
appointed in this assessment period eight are women as are the two internal chair promotions.
This has had a transformative effect in terms of the capacity for women to take on senior
managerial and research leadership roles in the Unit and Faculty. These include the previous Head
of the Department (Morris), Research Director (Neal), as well as Faculty Director of Learning and

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Teaching (Morris), Faculty PGR Director (Reed), and the directors of Faculty research groups, e.g.
the Migration Research Group (Kilkey) and the Digital Society Network (Kennedy).

We have embedded an ‘everyday EDI culture’ which means that we try to ensure that our
research activities and events are in wheelchair accessible buildings and wherever possible are
scheduled during working hours that recognise the home life and dependent responsibilities of our
staff (10am-4pm). Staff are supported in flexible and remote working arrangements and supported
through transitionary arrangements for returning to work after parental leave or illness.

Female academic staff (e.g. Lewis, Davies) have used the University’s Women Academic
Returners Programme which provides financial resource for activities that minimize the impact of
family leave on research progression.

Study leave planning is ‘EDI proofed’ to ensure that all staff are supported to apply for study leave
(see above) and monitored to ensure that there are no disproportionate patterns within study leave.

The Unit’s annual Personal Research Allowance system also provides a key tool for facilitating
research activities and inclusion for all staff.

This strategy of recognising the competing needs of home life has been central in our management
of the COVID-19 pandemic. We responded to individual’s health concerns, childcare, and other
caring responsibilities, and maintained an emphasis on staff well-being and connectedness.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Increasing research income has been core to our research strategy and we have successfully
achieved sustained levels of significant year on year growth.

Our total research income over the assessment period is £9.4M from a range of funding
organisations. Our annual research income has increased by almost 41% to £1.7M. This
includes more than tripling of income from research councils rising from £400K to £1.3M. We
have had significant EU funding alongside increases in funding from UK charities, UK central and
local government bodies and health research organisations.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                 Figure 1 Annual research income

This track record of grant capture reflects an explicit strategy in which we have systematically
targeted funding opportunities across a portfolio of national and international research
funders. We have successfully focused on increasing our grant capture from prestigious ‘blue
chip’ research charities and UKRI, and have had a strong track record of results from this.
However, we have also directly encouraged and supported funding applications to a wider range of
national and local government, EU, health and social sector funding bodies. This focus on diversity
in our grant capture strategy reflects first, our recognition of the increasingly competitive
funding landscape, the uncertainties surrounding EU funding post Brexit and the need to
build funding resilience through engaging with wider research funding sources and second,
the collaborative and applied nature of our research.

The effectiveness of our grant income strategy is evidenced in the level of research income noted
above and in the range and variety of national and international research organisations that
have provided the funding for our research. These include the ESRC, AHRC, MRC, Wellcome
Trust, the Leverhulme Trust including the Philip Leverhulme Prize, British Academy, Nuffield,
EU/Horizon 2020, European Commission Marie Curie fellowship; Big Lottery, Norface, BBC, the
Red Cross, Barnardo’s, Women’s Aid, NIHR, and the Norwegian, Australian and the Swedish
research councils.

We have prioritised a developmental approach to support our grant capture strategy based on our
research infrastructure and everyday research support practices e.g. mentoring, peer review. All
research staff belong to one or more of our research themes, Faculty centres, networks, or
University Flagship Institutes, reflecting our clear strategic alignment with Faculty and University
priorities and investment.

The Research Director, Theme Leaders, Hub team, research centre and institute leaders and
directors meet regularly with staff, either individually or as groups to encourage and discuss

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
funding opportunities and agendas, and organise collective activities to enable early preparation
and liaison with key colleagues for large scale grant applications.

Annual research away days are used to maximise medium-term research bid planning, discuss
future research directions and provide strategic coordination. These events are supplemented by
the regular research theme organised seminars, presentations on the application process by
colleagues who have secured major grants and presentations from funders on their priorities.

Several staff collaborate with the Sheffield Methods Institute (SMI) and lead national
methodological innovation in social science research through specialist support to projects and the
delivery of teaching and training to PGRs and staff, through events such as seminar series,
workshops, study schools and conferences. SMI also supports the development of working
relationships with non-academic partners to promote best practice research methods, including
hosting the ESRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Data Analytics and Society which offers co-
funded doctoral research to public, private and third sector partners with complex data challenges.

Sustainability has been integrated into this approach through emphasis on research leadership
across career stages. We have ensured participation in bid activity comes from early career, mid-
career and senior staff. Reflecting this, our funding successes have been well balanced. We have
had a track record of success with a range of early career fellowships as well as mid-career and
more senior staff led multidisciplinary and cross institution projects.

Research support resources and processes

Our research activities are expertly supported by a dedicated professional services research
support team – the Research Hub and the Unit-led Faculty centres (iHuman, CIRCLE) and
flagship Healthy Lifespan Institute have further access to bespoke research support teams. The
Hub provides expert knowledge of funding opportunities, and supports a range of research activity
including development and submission of funding applications, ethics approval processes, open
access submissions and output records management, and assist with data collection and
management information provision. The Hub supports our Research Committee, and the Hub
Manager works closely with the Research Director and with the institutional-level Research
Services to ensure that funding opportunities are disseminated appropriately, and relevant
academic colleagues are engaged, e.g. through information and training sessions, in particular
funding programmes and application processes. The Hub work with other professional services on
post-award management.

During the assessment period we have developed initiatives to enhance our external and global
research networks and public profile. Alongside our international research and impact
collaborations (Section 4) a key part of this profile-raising approach has been our website, which
hosts substantive, regularly updated and well-maintained information on our current and completed
research projects; theme activities, events, highlights, and news; a regular newsletter; and a
monthly blog that offers space for staff to present aspects of their current research findings and
outputs. We have also established a popular Visiting International Fellowship Scheme which
invites (and funds) international scholars working in areas related to our research themes to visit
for a 4-8 week period to present their work and build international research opportunities, as well
as provide methods masterclasses to our PGR community. Through this scheme we have awarded
visiting fellowships to established and senior colleagues from a range of research institutions and
countries, including New Zealand, the US, China, Portugal, and Lebanon.



                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Collaboration and impact

Reflecting our commitment to generating research with significant academic and societal impact
staff have a strong track record of engagement with local, national, and international partners.

Across all career stages our staff actively collaborate and co-produce research in partnership with
end users and beneficiaries. Partners are diverse and range from local charities to
government departments, supranational institutions and global corporations. The examples
below are indicative of the range of relationships with impact networks and non-academic partners
that our staff have established. Embedded in our thematic social inequalities and health areas
of research strength these examples help bring to life the scale and scope of our
collaborative relationships with stakeholders, beneficiaries and end users. As these examples
illustrate, many of these partners have been key collaborators on successful grant applications and
have been central to achieving the ambitions of our impact and engagement strategy.

Social inequalities

A particularly noteworthy example of local partnership for interventions around social inequalities is
led by Mason, an ECR who is one of the lead collaborators in a sustained initiative between the
University and the Unity Gym Project, based in one of Sheffield’s most deprived areas. Its core
mission is to create a safe space for young people with the overall aim to tackle youth violence and
knife crime. One of the central findings of Mason’s research was the need for a space to create
intergenerational dialogue, which led to him supporting Unity Gym as a co-investigator in its
successful Big Lottery bid (2020). Part of Mason’s engagement has been to deliver workshops for
intergenerational exchange and between various community and agency groups.

With a similar focus on social inequalities but working with practitioners at a national level, White
and Morris (see also Child Protection impact case study) have both worked extensively with the
Department for Education and local authorities on reform of the child protection system. Morris
led the 2017-2018 Children’s Chances, Crook Public Service Fellowships which involved
academics from across the Unit working with regional and national leaders in children’s services
and White worked with the Chief Social Worker for England on research into care proceedings.
White engaged with a range of agencies, including Public Health England, Lankelly Chase
Foundation and the Revolving Doors charity providing a critical perspective on ‘Adverse
Childhood Experiences’. She also gave evidence in 2018 to the Parliamentary Science and
Technology Committee on this topic.

All academic staff in social work are embedded in local research activity through the South
Yorkshire Teaching Partnership of seven local authorities. The research activity was led by
White and activities include the pro-bono supervision of practitioner research and academics
providing researched-based group supervision in the local authorities to develop research literacy.
The approach is informed by the idea of social work as a social science encouraging social
workers and managers to be ethnographers of their own domains and challenge received wisdom.

Examining digital inequalities, Kennedy’s work on the consequences of the collection and
algorithmic processing of digital data and the related growth in everyday AI technologies has
involved extensive engagement with a range of research partners as part of a programme of

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research into ‘living with data’. She has worked with the Department for Work and Pensions on
their algorithmic and data-driven approaches to welfare, the BBC on their collection of audience
data, and the Financial Times and other news media on how to make data visualisations more
effective and accessible to different publics. Kennedy’s work focuses on user perceptions of data
practices and how these are shaped by inequalities, an issue which is of great interest to her
research partners.

Health and wellbeing inequalities

Impact focused on inequalities interventions are a core part of Yeandle’s work. As Director of the
Sustainable Care Programme she leads an international team of academic and non-academic
partners exploring how care arrangements, currently ‘in crisis’ in parts of the UK, can be made
sustainable and deliver wellbeing outcomes. It aims to support policy and practice actors and
scholars to conceptualise sustainability in care as an issue of rights, values, ethics and justice, as
well as of resource distribution. The multi-institution research team is linked to an international
network spanning 15 countries and includes a wide range of partners with international
organisations such as the World Health Organisation (WHO), the International Alliance of
Carer Organisations (IACO) and the European Association Working for Carers (Eurocarers).
Specific activities include partnership working with the IACO in its core mission to build a global
carer movement and provide the evidence base with which to place care on the international
agenda.

Engaging international policy networks is also at the centre of Hughes’ research on
neurodevelopmental impairments and has led to collaborations with senior ministers and
judiciary in New Zealand. Most recently, as William Evans Visiting Fellow at the University of
Otago, he advised the Ministry of Justice and Principal Youth Court Judge on the implementation
of a young adult specialist court, including developing a screening tool able to identify and respond
to barriers to access to justice. Hughes’ work also directly informed ‘General Comment No. 24
(2019) on children’s rights in the child justice system’, issued by the UN Committee on the Rights
of the Child to provide guidance for states parties on how to comply with their obligations under
the Convention on the Rights of the Child with regard to young people with disabilities.

In a local and UK context, Wigfield’s health inequalities and care research involves engagement
with stakeholders from a number of statutory and non-statutory organisations to develop
knowledge and expertise on the growing social problem of loneliness. A mid-career researcher,
Wigfield has an extensive record of working in partnership with local authorities, including
Sheffield City Council and Leeds City Council, on their combatting loneliness programmes.
She has been at the forefront of innovative ideas to reduce loneliness in people with dementia; for
example, in one partnership with Age UK, she led a successfully evaluated programme that gave
people living with dementia the opportunity to interact with domesticated animals (chickens) in a
bid to curb loneliness and encourage creativity.

Our track record of impact related to health equalities is also very evident in Hines’ research with
transgender parents and families. The findings from her studies have been used in a range of
local, city, regional and international policy contexts, and by a number of government and non-
government organisations. For example, a 2018 Department for Education report on transgender
awareness in child and family social work education cited Hines’ research, and NHS England
invited the Trans Pregnancy Project team led by Hines to participate in the commissioning process
for a new transgender health service, which resulted in the launch of a three-year pilot project in
Greater Manchester. Hines’s work has been incorporated into NHS Trust midwifery training and

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strategy development in Brighton and Leeds, and an independent documentary film produced from
the project was utilised in professional training by UK charities Gendered Intelligence and
Mermaids. Practice guidelines, co-produced by the project team, practitioners and health care
providers informed the ‘Reproduction’ chapter of the ‘8th edition of the World Professional
Association of Transgender Health Standards of Care’.


4.2 Contribution to the discipline

Alongside these collaborations and impact activities, our staff contribute significant academic
expertise and experience to benefit and advance sociology and related disciplines at national and
international levels. Indicators of our contributions and standing in the sociological community can
be seen in the following activities:

   •   Membership of research funding and review panels: a significant number of staff have
       sat on national and international panels, e.g. ESRC Grant Assessment Panel (Kennedy,
       Ryan and Hines); ESRC Social Science for Recovery Advisory Group (Kennedy); ESRC
       Review Panels for Transformative Social Research (Neal); NIHR (Social Science) Public
       Health Research Funding Board (Salway); Wellcome Trust’s Social Science and Bioethics
       Early Career Expert Review Group (Williams); Irish Research Council (Neal); the Finnish
       Academy of Social Sciences Grant Committee and Finnish Humanities and Social Science
       Awards Committee (White); 2020 Hong Kong Research Assessment Exercise (White) and
       REF2014 and REF2021 panels (White, Neal).

   •   We have a strong track record of contributing to research publication processes through
       editorships of journals and book series, including the professional association flagship
       journals, Sociology, Current Sociology, Social Policy and Society and also Ethnographic
       Studies, Sociology of the Arts, Journal of Ageing and Society, European Journal of Ageing,
       and International Journal of Care and Caring. In addition, staff have served on 28 journal
       editorial boards and as guest editors on seven special issues. Hines serves as a co-
       editor on the Palgrave ‘Sexualities’ book series; Morris on the ‘Social Work in Practice’
       book series also with Palgrave, and Piekut is a member of the Commissioning Editor for the
       ‘International Migration, Integration and Social Cohesion’ in Europe (IMISCOE) book series
       with Springer.

   •   Across career stages staff have been active in leadership roles in professional
       associations. Particular highlights include: Neal sat on the BSA’s Trustees Board as co-
       editor of Sociology and sits on the International Sociology Association’s Publications
       Committee as co-editor of Current Sociology; Foster, Kilkey and Churchill are currently or
       have been Executive Committee members of the Social Policy Association. Szulc is a
       member of the International Communication Association Board and co-chair of its LGBTQ
       Interest Group. Walsh is co-convener of the BSA Families and Relationships Group. We
       have hosted the British Sociological Association’s Regional Early Career Event in 2017 and
       the BSA’s annual Postgraduate Regional Forum in 2019; Kilkey and Ryan organised and
       led the International Migration, Integration and Social Cohesion in Europe (IMESCOE) 2019
       Spring Conference ‘Transforming Mobility and Immobility: Brexit and Beyond’.

Alongside this range of examples of contributions to the disciplinary base, the academic expertise
and disciplinary esteem of our staff is also reflected in the following indicators:




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   The number of staff, who across career stages, have been invited keynotes to national
       and international academic audiences. For example: at the Munich Centre for Technology
       and Society Summer School (de Saille); ‘Digital Democracy: Critical Perspectives in the
       Age of Big Data Conference’, Södertörn University, Stockholm and the ‘International
       Association of Media and Communication Research, International Social Media + Society’
       conference (Kennedy); the 70th Anniversary of Finnish Gerontological Society, Helsinki
       (White); the Marjorie Warren Memorial Lecture, British Geriatric's Society (Walker);
       WISERD conference, University of Aberystwyth and International Sociology Association
       PhD Laboratory, University of Santiago de Compostela (Neal); and at University College
       Los Angeles (Mayblin); the University of Madrid (Hines); and University of Calgary (Morris).

       Reflecting our commitment to generating impactful research staff have given a wide range
       of invited KE presentations and expert contributions to wider, non-academic
       publics/specialist audiences, e.g. Mayblin worked with Cohesion Sheffield to evaluate
       asylum support services and Britton sits on Cohesion Sheffield’s Advisory Board; Mason
       presented the CWIP Northern Ireland case study findings to the Unit for Education and to
       the Ministry of Justice; Kilkey has presented to the Home Office Social Research Team;
       Reed and Foster have both presented on their research to the Department for Work and
       Pensions; Taylor has presented to the Unit of Culture, Media and Sport; L’Hoiry presented
       to South Yorkshire Police on neighbourhood policing and gave evidence to the Scottish
       Parliament's Cross-Party Group on Commercial Sexual Exploitation; Kennedy has given
       evidence to the Parliamentary Science and Technology Committee enquiry into Digital
       Government and participated in the Unit of Welfare and Pensions Methods Group; Pearce
       was an invited speaker at the United Nation’s COP23 conference and the Met Office;
       Gerrard was a member of Facebook/Instagram’s Suicide and Self-Injury Advisory Board;
       Walker was a member of the Foresight Lead Expert Group on Future of an Ageing
       Population.

   •   Our research has also had a very strong media profile and media impact. Staff have had
       their research reported by, or been invited to write for, outlets such as The Guardian, The
       Independent, The Washington Post, Newsweek, Der Spiegel and the Italian magazine
       Limes. Others have been invited to national TV and radio, such as BBC Radio 4’s Thinking
       Allowed and Woman’s Hour and Newsnight, with others interviewed on local TV and radio.

   •   We have an excellent track record of funded international research collaborations. This
       reflects both the strength of our international networks and our ambition to create a
       research environment with global reach. Highlights of international collaborative work and
       funding include the Swedish, Norwegian, and Australian research councils and EU COST
       and H2020 programmes. Hines and Yeandle have both led as PIs on international ESRC
       partnerships with their Trans Pregnancy and Sustainable Care projects. These
       collaborations are often built from the international institutional visits that staff have
       been invited to, e.g. to the universities of Amsterdam, Toronto, Ghana, Sydney and Zagreb
       along with New York, Monash, Chapman, Macquarie and Oslo Metropolitan universities.

   •   Reflecting their field-leading contributions and standing our staff, at different career stages,
       hold a range of national and international honorary roles and fellowships, e.g. Davies is
       Honorary Fellow of Morgan Centre for Research Methods, Manchester University; Reed is
       a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences; Walker was awarded CBE for Services to
       Social Science, is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences and was made a
       Distinguished Visiting Professor, Open University Hong Kong; Kilkey was the Leclercq

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Chair Visiting Professor, Catholic University of Louvain; Salway is an Adjunct Professor,
       University of Alberta; Mayblin is a Visiting Fellow, at the Migration Policy Centre, European
       University Institute in Florence; Hughes is a Visiting Researcher at the University of
       Melbourne, the Murdoch Children’s Research Institute, and the University of Otago.

       These international networks and global collaborations have also been enhanced through
       our annual Visiting International Fellowship (see above) which has provided resources to
       facilitate collaborative partnerships, such as with Gale Burford, University of Vermont, Alan
       France, University of Auckland, and Dr Monika Halcort, University of Beirut.

   •   The work of our staff has been widely recognised in the form of prizes and awards from
       the social sciences community, e.g. Reed won the 2019 ESRC Prize for Outstanding
       Impact in Society; Warren was runner up in the 2014 ESRC Prize for Outstanding Impact in
       Society; Mayblin was awarded the 2020 Philip Leverhulme Prize, the 2018 Philip Abrams
       Prize for the Best First Monograph in Sociology; and Mayblin and Piekut were awarded the
       2017 Sage Prize for Innovation and Excellence in Sociology; Morris was given the 2015
       Kate McDonnell Award for outstanding journal article in British Journal of Social Work;
       Richardson was awarded the 2019 Best Paper Prize from Human Progress in Human
       Geography 2018; and Neal was awarded the 2020 Sage Prize for Innovation and
       Excellence in Sociology.

       Alongside this range of disciplinary contributions, we are committed to the wider
       communication of our research and consistently participate in the University’s highly
       successful public-facing ESRC Festival of Social Sciences. We have presented a variety
       of our research projects within the festival during this assessment period. Highlights include
       Davies and Carter ‘The Brexit Timeline’ (2020); L’Hoiry 'The Unaccountable State of
       Surveillance' (2018); Kilkey ‘In Conversation: Arrivals: Making Sheffield Home’, Weston
       Park Museum (2016); Britton ‘Muslims in South Yorkshire’, Winter Gardens (2017); Lewis,
       Kilkey, Neal ‘Brexit and the Future: Q&A for EU Nationals’, Crucible Theatre (2017).

       In addition, the public profile of our research is raised by staff undertaking other creative
       forms of non-academic engagement, for example, Hines has spoken from her 2018
       Gender Fluidity book at literature festivals (Ilkley, Hay and Sheffield) and in book shops
       (Waterstones) and galleries (Haywood, Tate Modern) and Mayblin presented from her 2018
       Asylum and Empire monograph at the Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford.

All of these activities exemplify the nature of our research environment and the ways it sustains
and delivers imaginative, public-facing sociological research excellence which contributes to the
development and vitality of the discipline; informs and collaborates with policy communities and
research end users and creatively engages a diverse range of wider publics.




                                                                                            Page 21
