Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds (UoL)

 Unit of Assessment: UOA5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Overview

 This submission comprises 93 staff (84.93 FTE) within the Faculty of Biological Sciences (FBS).
 Research focusses on interdisciplinary approaches to address global challenges in biomedicine
 and sustainable development, underpinned by fundamental discovery bioscience. Building on our
 excellent fundamental, applied and interdisciplinary research identified in REF 2014, FBS has
 aligned staff into 8 cohesive research groups, better positioned to address global challenges
 (Figure 1). We have reinforced the collaborative and translational links of four pre-existing
 research groups described in REF2014, through recruitment of exceptional new academics
 (Ecology & Evolution:17 returnees, Integrative Membrane Biology:12 returnees, Plant
 Science:11 returnees and Structural Biology:13 returnees). Critical mass has increased in three
 new areas (Biotechnology:7 returnees, Cancer Biology:8 returnees and Cell and Organismal
 Biology:9 returnees). Amalgamation of infectious disease research into Microbiology:16
 returnees, provides core strength addressing global issues in antimicrobial resistance and
 infectious diseases. Each group includes senior researchers providing strategic leadership and
 development, and early career researchers (ECRs) providing long-term sustainability.

 We have created an interactive research environment with shared space, support processes,
 facilities and management, such that our 8 research groups are interlinked and collaborate
 extensively within and beyond UOA5, increasing research power to address our strategic
 challenges (Figure 1).




 Returnees have primary affiliations to one research group, plus strong associations with other
 groups. To maximise impact of our fundamental bioscience, all groups now strongly align with and
 participate in cross-faculty centres (Figure 1, detailed in Section 4.1 and REF5a). These centres
 transcend faculties and UoAs, tackling global challenges, including climate change, global health
 and food security, allowing UOA5 researchers to interact more readily across academia, industry
 and public policy. UOA5 also maintains close collaboration with the Faculty of Medicine and Health
 (FMH), for example through the Leeds Cancer Research Centre, ensuring our health-related
 research is driven by clinical needs. This collaborative and translational culture is underlined by
 some FBS staff being returned in UoA1, 4, 6, 9 and 24 (35.3 FTE). Our interdisciplinarity also
 enables staff to play leadership roles in external collaborations, such as the Alan Turing Institute,

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rosalind Franklin Institute and Diamond Light Source, allowing our research excellence to be
 user-informed and have broad relevance.

 During the REF period, UOA5 academics were awarded new grants (as PIs or CoIs) valuing
 £101.4M, published >1700 open-access research articles and received >27,000 citations. We
 continue to invest in our research environment through improvements in infrastructure (£32.25M)
 and new facilities (£21.3M), enhancing collaborative research space. Our user-informed, solution-
 driven research impacts on bioscience discovery, economic growth, policy makers, food security,
 environmental change and societal benefits in health and well-being.

 1.2. Research and Impact (R&I) Strategy

 UOA5’s over-arching strategy is to enhance our world-class research activity to meet national and
 international priorities in Biomedicine and Sustainable Development, underpinned by fundamental
 discovery bioscience. Aligning our research groups to UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
 research priorities, Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) vision and United Nations (UN)
 sustainability goals, meets the challenges of health and well-being for all, environmental change
 and food sustainability. We have aligned UOA5 discovery bioscience with translational
 mechanisms, enhancing our reach and impact, by fully exploiting interdisciplinary research
 through interaction with cross-faculty centres (Figure 1, Section 4.1), promoting industrial links and
 our international outlook. Together this provides the wide array of skills required to address key
 biological questions of global importance. Since REF 2014, our world-class research activity and
 global impact has been enhanced through strategic appointments, intensification of
 interdisciplinary research, national and international links and use of new technologies.

 1.2i. Investing in people
 UOA5’s research capacity has increased significantly by staff recruitment within all research
 groups, enhancing research vitality, bringing new collaborative opportunities, providing longer-
 term sustainability and providing key leadership in new areas. Appointments at all levels, include
 6x Professors, 8x lecturers and 14 University Academic Fellows (UAFs) (Section 2). We have
 further enhanced our research capability by recruiting 10 externally-funded independent fellows,
 with 5 of these joining the UAF scheme and 2 appointed as lecturers. Staff appointed during the
 REF period are supported by active mentoring, information exchange sessions with other recent
 appointees, pump-priming funding and the provision of a university-funded postgraduate student.
 Combined with an initially low teaching load, this approach has underpinned £31M new grants
 awarded to recent appointees. Staff at all levels are supported to succeed in their research
 strategy by their School Director of Research and Innovation (DoRI), who coordinates their
 research environment, space allocation and mentoring. Research group leaders champion
 everyday research success through strategic alignment with targeted funding avenues. FBS has
 also invested in bioinformatic infrastructure through LeedsOmics, including dedicated
 bioinformaticians (2.0 FTE), enhancing Omic-based research across all biological areas.

 1.2ii. Investing in infrastructure and facilities
 UoL has invested significantly in UOA5-related infrastructure (£32.25M) and facilities (£21.3M),
 providing a state-of-the-art research environment (Section 3). All UOA5-related research groups
 now have contiguous research space, the majority of which has undergone, or is undergoing,
 refurbishment. Research facilities are managed by the Head of FBS Research Facilities (0.6 FTE)
 and 10 dedicated faculty-funded facility managers (Section 3.2ii).

 1.2iii. Enhancing interdisciplinary research
 UOA5 staff engage extensively and successfully with other UoL faculties through cross-faculty
 centres (Figure 1, Sections 1.4 and 4.1) to boost outputs, enhance impact and translation of our
 research. Our successful collaborative ethos is emphasised by national and international
 collaborations leading to an increase in outputs with other UK institutions (from 46% to 50%) and
 international co-authors (from 40% to 59%), since REF2014. Furthermore, >25% of our
 postgraduate research students (PGRs) participate in interdisciplinary research, taking advantage
 of cross-faculty centres (Section 2.5). This vibrant cross-institutional research environment,

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 includes seminars, meetings, roadshows, away days and journal clubs, with multiple faculties,
 including FMH, Environment, Engineering and Physical Sciences. We participate in Leeds
 Creative Labs, an innovative programme pairing researchers with Creative Professionals and the
 Leeds Crucible Programme, helping researchers to collaborate with colleagues from different
 research backgrounds via residential sessions.

 1.2iv. Encouraging an open research environment
 Research data is shared openly and extensively, with >90% of outputs complying to REF open
 access policy (REF5a), through the White Rose Research Online database and publishing in open
 access journals. We encourage the use of centralised open access public repositories for Omic
 data (PRIDE, ArrayExpress etc), structural data (Protein Data-Bank, EM Data-Bank, EMPIAR etc)
 and the production of Leeds-based websites to allow sharing and re-use of data. Researchers
 deposit their raw and metadata in the Research Data Leeds Repository, providing a unique DOI
 for public access included in publications or on laboratory webpages. We no longer advocate using
 any proprietary software and actively encourage open-data platforms and services. We fully
 adhere to the open sharing of reagents and cell lines, depositing newly generated plasmids in
 repositories, like Addgene, following publication.

 1.2v. Embedding a culture of research integrity and ethical governance
 UoL policy requires approval of all research with an ethical dimension by a University research
 ethics committee. This ensures UOA5 research is conducted according to the principles of
 academic excellence, community, integrity, inclusiveness and professionalism. UoL is committed
 to responsible practices in research evaluation by signing the San Francisco Declaration of
 Research Assessment (DORA). All researchers (PGRs, postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs) and
 academics) receive guidance through UoL training and local practices. FBS Research Ethics
 Committee operates under delegated authority from UoL Research Ethics Committee, considering
 likely benefits and potential risks of research involving human subjects or collecting species in an
 international setting. Research involving animals is performed under Home Office requirements
 and guidance and is reviewed separately by UoL Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body; these
 committees include research staff and lay members. Administrative support for the ethical review
 process is provided by the UoL Senior Research Ethics Administrator and Research Ethics &
 Governance Administrator.

 1.3. R&I delivered during the REF period

 This is delivered through UOA5 research groups with extensive levels of interaction between
 groups and cross-faculty centres ensuring high impact. Exemplar achievements and future plans
 are showcased below for each group in alphabetical order. New appointees are highlighted in bold
 for each group. Translational impact of our research is detailed in Sections 1.4 and 4.

 Biotechnology; Leader: Tomlinson,D; Group members: Berry, Brockwell, Hemsworth,
 McPherson (0.3 FTE), Millner (0.8 FTE), Seipke.

 Aims to deliver an innovation culture blending fundamental and translational research, integrating
 academia and industry, to facilitate a technology readiness scale from knowledge creation and
 discovery to market introduction and products.
 Example achievements include the development, characterisation, patenting and
 commercialisation of novel molecular-recognition reagents, Affimers (UOA5-41;ICS-UOA5-2),
 development of biosensors (UOA5-93), use of extensional flow and in vivo growth assays to
 predict protein aggregation during manufacture (UOA5-714), discovery and characterization of
 lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases for biofuel production (UOA5-3424), discovery and
 improved production of natural antimicrobials (UOA5-2959) and new synthesis pathways for
 chemical building blocks for drug discovery (UOA5-337). Notably, Hemsworth was awarded
 BBSRC and Biochemical Society ECR Awards and UOA5-1865 was highly commended for the
 NC3Rs annual prize (2017): reducing animal use in research.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future goals will strengthen industrial links and academic collaborations, building new national
 and international collaborations, particularly focussing on developing novel biotechnology
 tools and embedding these into standard workflows in industrial and medical sectors.

 Cancer Biology; Leader: Bayliss; Group members: Boyes, Ladbury, Plant, Westhead, Wright,
 Wu, Zeqiraj.

 Aims to integrate genomic, structural, cellular and organismal approaches to interrogate
 fundamental mechanisms of cancer, enhance existing and identify new targets for intervention.
 Example achievements include the discovery of a non-canonical mode of oncogenic signalling by
 Grb2 (UOA5-3035;UOA5-3036), structural insights into EML4-ALK fusion in lung cancer (UOA5-
 3289), structural mechanisms of spindle assembly (UOA5-3288), structure/function studies of the
 DNA damage response (UOA5-3477;UOA5-3925), mechanistic studies on genetic recombination
 (UOA5-1707), tumourigenic mechanisms in ovarian cancer (UOA5-456), genetic dysregulation in
 cancer (UOA5-721;UOA5-723) and metabolic reprogramming in cancer (UOA5-3712).
 Future goals will translate existing structural and biochemical understandings into therapeutic
 modalities. For example, a recent BBSRC sLoLa aims to understand the dynamic interactions of
 oncogenic kinases to develop protein-protein interaction inhibitors (Bayliss, CoI). This strategy will
 be enhanced by the new Leeds Cancer Research Centre (Ladbury, Scientific Director), a cross-
 faculty endeavour integrating research into clinical oncology (diagnostics/biomarkers), novel
 therapeutic and disease models.

 Cell and Organismal Biology; Leader: van Oosten-Hawle; Group Members: Amer, Aspden,
 Hewitt, Ingham (0.3 FTE), Peckham, Ponnambalam, Scarff (0.8 FTE), Stacey.

 Aims to improve the understanding of fundamental cell biology in health and disease, using cell
 culture systems and model organisms.
 Example achievements include novel insights into the structure/function of myosins (UOA5-
 615;UOA5-2531), structure/function of specific tissues and their changes during aging and
 disease (UOA5-1424;UOA5-2998), translation of sORFs (UOA5-3202), regulation of VEGFR
 trafficking (UOA5-1105), developmental mechanisms of skin-associated inflammatory diseases
 (UOA5-2227), developing 3D-culture systems (UOA5-4087) and biocompatibility of medical
 implants (UOA5-24;ICS-UOA5-1).
 Future goals aim to visualise cellular processes in real-time throughout aging and disease,
 exploiting this knowledge for medical and biotechnological gain, using super-resolution, cryo-EM
 and cryo-CLEM, as well as high-throughput imaging of cells in culture and model organisms.

 Ecology & Evolution; Leader: Duncan; Group members: Beger, Benton (0.2 FTE), Bretman,
 Compton, Dunn, Firbank (0.6 FTE), Goodman, Hamer, Hassall, Isaac (0.6 FTE), Kunin, O’Connell
 (0.2 FTE), Peel, Quinnell, Sait, Sankaran (0.33 FTE).

 Aims to address fundamental and applied questions relevant to the natural world, working at
 scales ranging from molecules to ecosystems.
 Example achievements include impactful work on global change biology (UOA5-1909;UOA5-
 2717), conservation biology and invasive species (UOA5-558;UOA5-1710;UOA5-3590), biology
 of insect pests (UOA5-47;UOA5-1421;UOA5-2698) and insect-borne diseases (UOA5-660),
 evolutionary biology and adaptation (UOA5-1192;UOA5-3129;UOA5-3179), biodiversity and
 sustainable agriculture (UOA5-242;UOA5-551;UOA5-1720;UOA5-2473;UOA5-4589). UOA5-547
 was awarded RSPB Conservation Science Paper of the Year, 2017. Close ties exist with
 conservation and policy communities at regional, national and international levels, highlighted by
 ICS-UOA5-3;ICS-UOA5-4;ICS-UOA5-6;ICS-UOA5-7.
 Future goals will address global environmental challenges aligned with UN sustainability goals,
 enhancing the translation of fundamental research for societal impact. This is combined with
 enhancing relationships with stakeholders and delivering increased impact internationally, with a
 particular focus on developing nations.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Integrative Membrane Biology; Leader: Muench; Group members: Frank, Goldman, Harrison,
 Henderson (0.2 FTE), Jeuken, Jiang, Lippiat, Lukacs, Pliotas, Richter, Sivaprasadarao (0.8
 FTE).

 Aims to use multidisciplinary approaches to study membrane proteins from the atomic to cellular
 level, leading to fundamental understanding of membrane protein structure/function and their role
 in human health.
 Example achievements include advances in the understanding of proton and sodium pump
 arrangement and function leading to drug design (UOA5-215;UOA5-1941;UOA5-2916), novel
 mechanistic insights on transporters and ion channels (UOA5-123;UOA5-261;UOA5-1589;UOA5-
 1647), understanding of mechanosensitive channels (UOA5-3928;UOA5-3984), developing
 techniques for assembling bilayers, developing biosensors and super-selective targeting of cell
 surface receptors (UOA5-1351;UOA5-3440;UOA5-3886).
 Future goals will utilise rapidly expanding capabilities for time-resolved methodologies and
 structural biology, to interrogate disease-associated membrane protein dynamics and developing
 surface technology for biocatalysis and biosensors.

 Microbiology; Leader: Tuplin; Group members: Barr, Blair, Fontana, Harris, Herod, Macdonald,
 Mankouri, McConkey, McDowall, O’Neill, Roberts (0.2 FTE), Rowlands (0.2 FTE), Stonehouse,
 Tomlinson,J (0.8 FTE), Whitehouse.

 Aims to understand in molecular detail the biology of micro-organisms that cause disease in
 animals and humans, exploiting this knowledge to develop new therapeutic strategies, highlighted
 throughout Section 4.
 Example achievements include insights into the fundamental nature and pathogenesis of a diverse
 range of microbes: including Bunyaviruses (UOA5-1454), Hepatitis viruses (UOA5-652;UOA5-
 653), Chikungunya virus (UOA5-654), Herpesviruses (UOA5-378;UOA5-3253), Polyomaviruses
 (UOA5-772), Picornaviruses (UOA5-2919), Noroviruses (UOA5-3523), Enteroviruses (UOA5-68),
 Papilloviruses (UOA5-33;UOA5-769), Toxoplasma gondii (UOA5-530) and Escherichia coli
 (UOA5-546), dramatically expanding the mechanistic paradigm for how pathogenic bacteria resist
 antimicrobial agents (UOA5-767;UOA5-2477) and evolving novel strategies for therapeutic
 intervention (UOA5-374;UOA5-599) and vaccine development (UOA5-600).
 Future goals will exploit increased capabilities in structural biology and super-resolution
 bioimaging to underpin structural-based therapeutic design, through strong links with medicinal
 chemistry and applying Affimers (ICS-UOA5-2) in microbial therapies and diagnostics.

 Plant Science; Leader: Kepinski; Group members: Baker, Benitez-Alfonso, Bennett, Cuming,
 Davies, Denecke, Dixon, Knox (0.6 FTE), Urwin, West.

 Aims to utilise multidisciplinary approaches spanning scales from the angstrom-level analysis of
 signalling systems to understanding the metabolic basis of plant-fungal symbiosis. Strengths lie in
 structural and synthetic biology, cell and developmental biology, plant-symbiont and plant-
 pathogen interactions and rhizosphere processes.
 Example achievements are highlighted by work on plant hormone signal transduction and root
 and shoot architectural control (UOA5-1396;UOA5-1876), DNA repair and genome stability
 (UOA5-1600), molecular basis of plant immunity (UOA5-60;UOA5-561), the secretory pathway
 (UOA5-753), synthetic biology (UOA5-493;UOA5-2764), reproductive development (UOA5-4049),
 plant-microbe interactions (UOA5-275;UOA5-276) and determinants of plant cell wall degradation
 (UOA5-205).
 Future goals focus on Future Crops, an initiative building on the group’s fundamental research
 and discovery base providing knowledge and tools to create new crop varieties for a changing
 world and developing innovative farming systems delivering net zero carbon food production.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Structural Biology; Leader: Ranson; Group members: Breeze, Calabrese, Cockburn, Edwards,
 Krivov, Ochi, Paci, Patel, Radford, Sobott, Stockley, Zhuravleva.

 Aims to provide a central hub in UOA5-based research, linking diverse research questions with
 the common aim of understanding mechanisms in molecular detail, and developing new
 techniques enabling the interrogation of those mechanisms. A hallmark of this approach is
 integrating all major structure determination technologies, alongside a comprehensive suite of
 biophysical approaches, imaging and computation.
 Example achievements include significant contributions to understanding biomolecular function
 (UOA5-2793;UOA5-2903), elucidating the structure of viruses (UOA5-1411;UOA5-1412), viral
 proteins (UOA5-1746), virus assembly (UOA5-84;UOA5-85), bacterial outer membrane protein
 folding (UOA5-1410), molecular chaperone function (UOA5-523;UOA5-2900), amyloid structure
 (UOA5-524;UOA5-526), cellular kinase function (UOA5-971;UOA5-3048), complex assembly in
 DNA repair (UOA5-3927) and molecular motors (UOA5-3001). Computational biology also
 complements these sub-themes (UOA5-1688;UOA5-2252).
 Future goals will exploit and further develop state-of-the-art facilities in cryo-EM and solution NMR,
 to unpick the molecular details of processes as diverse as how virus structure facilitates infection
 to protein aggregation and degeneration. The group will also develop cryo-CLEM, single molecule
 and super-resolution methodologies to integrate cell and structural biology.

 1.4. Embedding impact

 Our current impact strategy is built upon the success of our REF2014 return (ranked 6 th for
 research impact). Translational impact is now supported through the Faculty Research &
 Innovation Development Manager (RIDM) and Research Impact Officer (Section 3.2i). We have
 appointed three FBS Impact Champions (2016-onwards), whose role supports UOA5 academics
 develop and deliver impact from fundamental research discoveries. Stronger interactions with
 cross-faculty centres (Figure 1, Section 4.1), have provided increased access to external advisory
 boards and industry engagement events. This strategy has increased our external interactions
 across academia, industry and public policy, enhancing UOA5’s long-term delivery of economic
 and social impact. Further development of new interactions with companies to increase impact is
 supported at the university level by the commercialisation team, the Medical Technologies
 Innovation and Knowledge Centre and the newly completed Nexus Centre (detailed in REF5a),
 enabling businesses from all sectors to connect with UOA5 academics to maximise innovation
 and commercial returns (Section 4.4). This step-change in approach has increased the
 translational impact of UOA5 research, beyond biomedicine and sustainability, by directly
 impacting on public policy. This is exemplified not only by the strength of our current 7 Impact case
 studies (ICS), but also the wide range of additional impact detailed throughout REF5b.

 We have invested £465K of faculty funds in impact projects since 2014, together with a further
 £75K from the sale of spin-out companies. This has enabled UOA5 to support impact-related
 projects through various mechanisms, including pump-priming funding, travel and staffing support,
 purchasing and maintenance of vital equipment, as well as enhancing staff development by
 supporting industrial and other secondments, exemplified by Ecology & Evolution:Benton
 becoming the Champion of the UK’s Global Food Security programme (ICS-UOA5-3) and
 industrial secondments, Cell Biology:Ingham (ICS-UOA5-1). Other projects supported include sea
 mammal conservation, Ecology & Evolution:Goodman (ICS-UOA5-6); pollinator sustainability,
 Ecology & Evolution:Kunin (ICS-UOA5-7); a novel confocal microscopy technique
 (Membranes:Lippiat); vaccine development (Microbiology:Stonehouse); control of plant shoot/root
 branching angles (Plant Science:Kepinski); wildlife pest and disease monitoring (Ecology &
 Evolution:Hassall; Biotechnology:Millner).

 FBS won the BBSRC Excellence with Impact runner-up award, May 2016. This £35K award was
 combined with faculty funding (£20K), to support BBSRC-remit impact projects: including a protein
 aggregation prediction platform (Biotechnology:Brockwell); Invasive non-native species
 biosecurity, Ecology & Evolution:Dunn (ICS-UOA5-4); Cereals and soil (Plant Science:Knox);


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 antiviral inhibition of respiratory syncytial virus (Microbiology:Barr/Edwards) and a GCRF
 Translational project (Plant Science:Urwin).

 An EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA), awarded to UoL (2013-present) provided funding
 for proof-of-concept projects: £57K to design and manufacture benchtop microfluidic devices for
 the biopharmaceutical industry predicting aggregation propensity of therapeutic antibodies
 (Biotechnology:Brockwell), leading to £364K further funding (Medimmune/UoL); a Business
 Engagement Project in collaboration with Futamura (£32K) (Plant Science:Benitez-Alfonso),
 exploiting the properties of cell wall components to develop new cellulose-based products.
 Similarly, UoL MRC Confidence in Concept funds, 2014-present, funded multiple awards in UOA5
 (£567K) to support projects: in cancer immunotherapy (Microbiology:Blair); Lupus treatments
 (Cancer:Zeqiraj);    topical    disease    modifiers    for  inflammatory     skin    diseases
 (Microbiology:Stonehouse)          and        therapeutic      FcγRIIIa-binding        Affimers
 (Biotechnology:Tomlinson,D, ICS-UOA5-2).

 1.5. Applying our agile R&I strategy to COVID-19

 UOA5 responded quickly to the COVID-19 pandemic. Impact is evidenced by 23 researchers from
 UOA5 groups volunteering for testing work in UK Lighthouse Laboratories and PHE, with
 Microbiology:Harris/Stonehouse being awarded COVID medals for organising this response. As
 part of DECOVID, a major national project driven by the Alan Turing Institute, Cancer:Westhead
 is leading a group applying data science and artificial intelligence methodology to intensive care
 unit data from UK hospitals, with the aim of predicting treatment needs and outcomes. Several
 projects have also been funded focussing on COVID-19: Biotechnology:Tomlinson developing
 rapid lateral flow COVID-19 antigen tests in collaboration with Avacta (ICS-UOA5-2);
 Microbiology:Harris in collaboration with FMH, assessing if SARS-CoV2 is present in stool
 samples and correlating this to transmission; Microbiology:Stonehouse, in collaboration with
 Oxford, is assessing HepB core and yeast expression systems for vaccine candidates; Cancer
 Biology:Boyes is developing broadly neutralising antibodies against SARS-CoV2; Structural
 Biology:Stockley, in collaboration with York and NIH, USA, is identifying packaging signals in the
 SARS-CoV2 genome to target as a novel therapeutics; Biotechnology:Tomlinson/Millner and
 Membranes:Jeuken are developing robust and sensitive enzyme-switch-based assays for point-
 of-care diagnostic tests for SARS-CoV2-specific immunoglobulin detection.

 1.6. Future Initiatives

 UOA5 will ensure continuity and succession of our excellence in challenge-led research
 underpinned by fundamental bioscience. Meeting our global challenges requires UOA5
 researchers to work together in diverse interdisciplinary teams, bringing expertise in human health,
 food security, environmental impacts and systems understanding, scaling from the molecular to
 the ecosystem level. This strategy will be maximised by our interdisciplinary links with two major
 new initiatives. Firstly, the £32.25M investment in UOA5 research environment infrastructure will
 develop a new vision for biomedical research, providing shared, interdisciplinary space bringing
 together UOA5 scientists with engineers, chemists and clinicians to work on common goals.
 Similarly, an agricultural vision encompassing Smart Agri-Systems and pigSustain (FBS UOA6-
 based researchers), with Future Crops, will focus work across UoL, bought together through our
 fully instrumented working farm (£40M investment). Aligned with these initiatives we will grow our
 industrial portfolio by achieving greater collaboration with industrial partners via research and
 development contracts, the Nexus Centre and MIT-REAP entrepreneurship programme (detailed
 in REF5a). Our new Pro-Dean International position (initiated in 2018) will engage with
 international partners and stakeholders developing trans-national partnerships, raising our
 international profile and reputation. We also aim to develop the biologists of the future, through
 our PGR programs and PDRA initiatives, ensuring the vitality of both our own UOA and the global
 biological sciences community (Section 2).




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Our      well-defined    organisational
 structures and investment in people
 resulted in buoyant recruitment of
 leading        research     academics;
 including 6x Professors, 8x lecturers,
 14 UAFs and 3 external fellows
 (Table 1). A key aspect of our
 recruitment strategy is to exploit the
 interface between our established
 research activities and new areas of
 interdisciplinary expertise, combined
 with the significant investment in our
 physical      research    infrastructure
 (Section 3). This has developed new
 research areas and built a critical
 mass of researchers. The recruitment
 of Professors Sobott and Breeze add
 to the buoyancy of our world class
 Mass Spectrometry and NMR facilities, supporting the work of Structural Biology and Professors
 Bayliss, Ladbury and Plant provide leadership in Cancer Biology. We also retain research active
 staff, on part-time contracts, in partial-retirement, to maintain research leadership and experience
 (7 Professors: Firbank, Henderson, Ingham, Isaac, Knox, McPherson, Rowlands). In total, 93 staff
 are returned, of whom 36 are Professors, 21 Readers/Associate Professors, 19 Lecturers and 17
 Research Fellows. We return 18% of staff aged <40y, 30% aged 40-49y, 30% aged 50-59y and
 22% >60y. 23% female and 77% male are being returned. Notably, new appointments during this
 REF period have an increased female (39%) to male (61%) ratio. 16% of returnees are <1.0 FTE
 highlighting our flexible staffing approach.

 The UoL Great Minds initiative (detailed in REF5a), has invested significantly in UOA5 by recruiting
 future academic leaders. 14 UAFs have been appointed strategically across all UOA5 research
 groupings, to increase interdisciplinary research, grow research success and build sustainability
 by ensuring continued critical mass. An additional 4 UAFs were appointed in this REF period but
 are not returned in this UOA, as they obtained permanent positions at other universities, including
 chair level appointments, emphasising the high calibre of this cohort. UAFs receive a five-year
 development scheme, leading to tenure at Associate Professor level. During their probationary
 period they receive tailored mentorship by senior academics to stimulate their transition to
 independence and research success. For the first three years UAFs receive significant workload
 remission, with a teaching and administration load of 33% in year 1. UOA5 has significantly
 benefited from the outstanding performance of our UAFs. Recruited in three separate cohorts in
 this REF period, it is remarkable they have a combined new grant income of £13.4M, representing
 an average of >£840K.

 Aligned with the UAF scheme we have enhanced our research interdisciplinary capability with 10
 externally-funded research fellows. Dixon (UKRI-FLF), Hemsworth (BBSRC), Herod (MRC),
 Zeqiraj (Wellcome Trust), Tomlinson,J, Mankouri (Royal Society), Beger, Duncan (EU), Patel
 (Medical Research Foundation), Scarff (BHF). 5 of these independent research fellows have also
 been appointed onto the UAF scheme and 2 obtained lectureships.

 To promote inclusivity during recruitment, we embed actions such as debiasing recruitment
 adverts, diversifying locations of advertising, optimizing use of professional networks and
 producing short films on life as a UoL employee. To ensure sustainability of staff and infrastructure,
 each Faculty has an academic and financial 5-year plan agreed annually with a top level University
 team. To cement our interdisciplinary approach, we recruit to enhance collaboration across

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 traditional disciplinary boundaries e.g. between biology and mathematics, medicine, engineering
 or environment.

 2.2. Support and continuing professional development

 We develop and promote existing staff aligned with our research ambitions. Post-probation, all
 academic staff are mentored, and development facilitated in an annual academic review meeting
 between individuals, Heads of School (HoS), DoRIs and Directors of Student Education (DSEs),
 with input from Research Group Leads. Workloads are discussed, assessed and can be
 redistributed allowing staff to tackle strategic objectives, as well as leadership training
 programmes and succession planning. An additional review is undertaken by the university-led
 “Staff Review and Development Scheme” with trained reviewers. Both forums help staff achieve
 their full potential, providing the opportunity for 2-way review of work progress, identifying key
 objectives, providing constructive feedback, recognising success through UoL “Reward and
 Recognition” scheme, providing support for improvement and identifying appropriate
 development, as well as allowing discussion of career aspirations. The value of on-going
 mentoring is reviewed each year and new mentors developed, both within and outside FBS.

 To facilitate staff development, a wide range of opportunities are available centrally, through
 Operational Development and Professional Learning (OD&PL, REF5a), including courses on
 mentoring, attracting research income, applying for funding schemes, impact partnership with
 industry, leadership, commercialisation, and UoL “Next Generation Researcher” programme. Our
 success in staff development, reward of research accomplishments and external recognition is
 indicated by promotions (8 Professorships and 11 Readerships/Associate Professorships) during
 this REF period.

 We are committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, adhering
 to established University Policy on the Employment of Researchers (detailed in REF5a). Our
 support for PDRAs is enhanced with the appointment of an Academic Postdoctoral Champion
 (2018), who contributed to the institutional level HR Excellence in Research Award, and a new
 committee of PDRAs ensuring the needs of these valued members of our community are fully
 supported. All PDRAs have 10 training days per annum incorporated into their contracts. OD&PL
 deliver a programme of PDRA career support and opportunities for developing teaching skills,
 designed in conjunction with a UoL ECR Action Group. We have established local PDRA
 mentoring circles, aligned with 2 academic mentors from different backgrounds providing informal
 support for career development and any other issues. The PDRA community organise a “Coffee
 and Career” series, with speakers talking about careers outside academia after pursuing a PhD
 and/or PDRA. To foster PDRA’s research independence and grant writing skills we have also
 initiated the Dean’s Vacation Research Scholarships, allowing PDRAs to gain experience in PI
 skills including applying for funding, advertising for and interviewing students, supervising them
 for 8 weeks and writing a final report. UoL is also a signatory to The Technician Commitment and
 we have realigned technical structures to promote clear, transparent career pathways.

 2.3. Creating a supportive environment for R&I

 We have established structures enabling staff training and development from the earliest stages,
 including robust development and review of grant applications, leading to an increase in UOA5
 successful grant applications (Section 3). Research groups meet at least bimonthly to discuss R&I
 strategy and administrative issues. Three external seminars are held each week and research
 groups also hold internal seminars, journal clubs and symposia, where junior researchers receive
 feedback on data and develop presentation skills. We provide internal peer review for grant
 applications, involving panel review, chaired by staff who sit or have sat on grant panels. We
 provide tips and hints documents and share examples of successful grants. We benefit from
 university-wide training workshops specifically for UKRI fellowship schemes. This includes peer
 review of applications, mock interviews, professional coaching and communication skills training.
 RIDMs (Section 3.2i) also support longer and larger grant applications. Within FBS, our
 management structure ensures that all research staff have easy communication with management

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 teams, creating a supportive and nurturing environment. It also facilitates information flow
 enhancing our ability to identify interdisciplinary opportunities quickly.

 2.4. Supporting and promoting Equality and Inclusion (E&I)

 We are committed to delivering a supportive and professional working environment for all staff,
 through embedded practices supporting equality, diversity, protected characteristics, disabilities
 and flexible working. To set local policy and ensure implementation of local and UoL policy, FBS
 has its own E&I Committee, chaired by the Executive Dean and attended by Pro-Deans, HoSs
 and School E&I PDRA and PGR representatives. In 2017, a Faculty E&I Coordinator was
 appointed and activities coordinated through the E&I Delivery Group include: establishment of a
 FBS Well-being room; prayer room; introduction of training sessions on unconscious bias and E&I
 for PGRs, PDRAs and staff; compliance with UoL Race Equality Framework; trans-awareness
 training: a campaign to represent the diversity of FBS staff and students under the slogan FACES
 OF FBS; an LGBT STEM event and a Faculty Diversity Award, funding attendance at BAME-ECR
 conferences for young BAME scientists, and Well-being Works, a peer support initiative run for,
 and by, PGRs.

 We strongly support the development of women’s careers in STEM disciplines and gender equality
 issues, as recognised by the FBS Athena SWAN Silver award, 2020. UOA5 is fully committed to
 the ‘Leeds Gender Framework’ (detailed in REF5a). All aspects of EDI were evaluated via a
 Faculty and University process ensuring no one was disadvantaged with respect to inclusion in
 REF and choice of outputs. Notably, new appointments during this REF period has an increased
 female (39%) to male (61%) ratio, over the existing faculty ratio (23% female to 77% male). Athena
 SWAN-led faculty funding provides PDRA support for academics on prolonged leave (e.g.
 maternity leave), supporting to date 3 academics to maintain research output. New initiatives
 supporting grant writing has increased female staff contribution to successful applications from
 16% in 16/17 to 46%. Funding for leadership training for women (e.g. Aurora, Springboard,
 detailed in REF5a), along with a more transparent application process has contributed to an
 increase in the leadership roles held by females (55% of roles in 19/20 compared to 26% in 2017),
 exemplified by the Executive Dean, 1/3 HoS and 3/3 of the DoRI positions within FBS, in addition
 to leadership positions in cross-faculty centres (Radford:Astbury; Priestley:Beger;
 LeedsOmics:Aspden/O’Connell).

 We review current practices annually through ‘Culture Surveys’ and focus groups on part-time
 working, mentoring, career progression and returning to work. These highlight good practice
 providing action plans to continue improving E&I. We run workshops on flexible working to improve
 understanding for staff and managers, as indicated by 16% of the submitted academic staff and
 13 PDRAs working part-time. Those staff with disabilities requiring specific support or adaptations
 are supported in conjunction with University Health and Safety and Occupational Health services,
 enabling them to carry out all tasks as necessary. We also actively participate in workshops
 discussing perceived barriers to part-time working, including academic speakers from UOA5, who
 bring their experience of part-time working and offer mentoring to those considering part-time
 work. All academics undertake compulsory tailored unconscious bias and E&I training, and Trans-
 awareness training has been taken by members of the Athena SWAN Team. An autism awareness
 workshop was also run specifically for FBS. Athena SWAN meetings encourage lively discussion
 of gender equality issues, including barriers to career development, everyday sexism and core
 hours. Following these discussions we now run an everyday sexism awareness campaign and
 have created a ‘Family Friendly’ guide, ensuring parents are fully aware of the facilities and
 resources available to support them.

 2.5. Postgraduate Researchers

 UOA5 has a vibrant and active group of PGRs. They contribute to 49% of UOA5 research outputs
 included in this return (increased from 43% in REF2014), indicating the strength of the PGR
 research environment. UOA5 PGRs have received multiple awards for their research during this
 REF period. Highlights include: Microbiology Society Young Microbiologist of the Year; selection

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the Lindau Nobel Laureate symposium; Forbes top young entrepreneurs under 30 2020;
 Cogent Life Sciences Postgraduate of the year.

 PGR numbers have increased 18% between 2014/15 and 2019/20 (217 in 2014/15 compared to
 256 currently registered); with ~20% being overseas PGRs (these figures do not include PGRs in
 their overtime year or under examination). This growth is consistent with the increase in research
 income (Section 3.1), indicating a further strengthening of the research environment. The ratio of
 female PGRs has increased from 50% in 2014 to 55% in 2020, there are two gender binary PGRs.
 Over 25% of our PGRs participate in interdisciplinary research, enhancing the richness of training
 and widening the scope of future career options. This is indicated by co-supervisors being
 associated with different faculties, taking advantage of existing links and building new partnerships
 across faculties and through cross-faculty interdisciplinary centres (Figure 1). PGRs also have co-
 supervisors at institutes outside Leeds (Public Health England, Centre for Ecology and Hydrology,
 Agriculture and Food Development Authority and Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute).

 UOA5-based PGRs are funded from multiple sources: FBS hosts the BBSRC White Rose Doctoral
 Training Partnership (DTP) in Mechanistic Biology, a collaboration between UoL, Sheffield and
 York. UOA5 had a total of 102 DTP PGRs during this REF period, including 9 Leeds CASE PGRs
 and 4 Leeds National Productivity Investment Fund PGRs. In 2019 DTP3 was awarded, £10M in
 total, with funding until 2024 with allocations for 2023-2024 and 2024-2025 dependent on
 satisfactory progress on mid-term review. 12 standard studentships and 7 CASE studentships
 have been awarded to the DTP per annum. We also host a Wellcome Trust PhD programme
 aligned with Astbury, funding 6 studentships per annum until 2022/23. Additionally, a number of
 our PGRs are funded by the MRC DiMeN DTP (with Sheffield, Newcastle and Liverpool). UOA5
 has also been instrumental in securing two NERC DTPs; SPHERES (2013-2018) and
 PANORAMA (2018-2022). PANORAMA is led by UoL in partnership with York and Hull
 universities. Industrial CASE partner studentships are a priority in these schemes ensuring
 research is sector-facing. Cross-faculty studentships are also co-supervised with EPSRC Centres
 for Doctoral Training administered by Engineering.

 FBS established the first Graduate School on campus and initiated regulatory procedures that are
 now followed across UoL. Adopting the University Code of Practice on postgraduate training and
 supervision, the Graduate School coordinates and administers all postgraduate training and
 supervision, through training plans and the GRAD system. PGRs have a primary supervisor
 responsible for direction of the research project and, at least one co-supervisor with academic
 input. The supervisory team includes two independent assessors from within UoL with relevant
 experience, meeting formally with the PGR to review progress at defined time points. These
 include evaluation of a grant proposal or literature review at month 4, a transfer viva at the end of
 the first year (examined by written report and viva voce), which must be successfully completed
 to transfer to full PhD registration, and a draft manuscript and thesis plan at the end of the
 penultimate year. Assessors are also available for the PGR if any issues arise, as are the School
 Directors of PGR. Our successful PGR supervision is reflected in an overall pass rate on first
 submission of >98% average for 2017-2020. Furthermore, in accordance with UKRI guidelines,
 83.2% of our PGRs submitted within 4 years. Our PhD graduate first destinations are principally
 science-related, with >80% undertaking PDRAs, employed in relevant industries, NHS or in
 science-related roles, such as science administration, policy, publishing or consultancy.

 Complementary to research, PGRs receive the equivalent of 10 days per year of professional
 development and training. The programme of professional development is designed and delivered
 through a number of providers: OD&PL provide soft-skills training, including a broad range of
 workshops and events supporting PGRs as they embark on research, developing key skills for
 their future careers within or outside academia. Examples include: project management; thesis
 writing; working with your supervisor; viva preparation; creative thinking and problem solving;
 effective networking and innovative thinking. More bespoke training is also available, such as
 introduction to bioinformatics, coding and statistics via LeedsOmics workshops and Good
 Laboratory Practice. OD&PL have also partnered with UoL Mental Health and Well-being service,
 introducing a new suite of training sessions around resilience and well-being. External conference

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presentations are crucial for development, and research group meetings, interdisciplinary centre
 away days and our highly successful annual PGR Symposium provides the ideal practice forum.
 At the PGR symposium, first year PGRs make a “three minute thesis” presentation, second year
 PGRs present posters and final year PGRs give talks. All presentations and posters are assessed
 and feedback provided and up to 20 prizes awarded each year.

 We actively obtain feedback from the PGRs attending our courses via elected representatives,
 who sit on the Faculty Graduate Committee, to develop new workshops or improve existing ones.
 Moreover, the professional development programme is frequently reviewed, reflecting UKRI
 thinking and employers’ perspectives, leading to new workshops on enterprise, public
 engagement, pathways to impact and working with industry. The success of these is reflected in
 one student winning the BBSRC molecules to market award for their business idea and
 presentation.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income

 UOA5 research benefited from £101.4M successful new funding applications awarded to
 researchers within this REF period (Table 2). Income/expenditure in the period was £93M, an
 increase of 33% over REF2014 (£62.2M) (REF4b). UOA5 holds the majority of UoL BBSRC
 funding, enabling UoL to be ranked 3rd and 5th in BBSRC number and value funding rates,
 respectively in 2020, compared to 16 th in 2014. UOA5 also contributed significantly to UoL 3 rd
 ranking in GCRF and Newton funding (detailed in REF5a).




 Each research group has a diverse funding portfolio, contributing to UOA5’s high quality research
 output and impact. Of these grants, 19% are interdisciplinary, with co-investigators from cross-
 faculty centres and other institutions. This is exemplified by large cross-faculty awards, such as a
 BBSRC sLoLa involving Biotechnology, Cancer Biology, Structural Biology, as well as GCRF
 AFRICAP involving Ecology & Evolution, Plant Science.

 Biotechnology: 65 grants awarded, 27 as PI, including UKRI (BBSRC, MRC, EPSRC), UK
 Central Government (DSTL, Porton Down, Innovate UK), charities (Cancer Research UK,
 Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust, Yorkshire Cancer Research). Hemsworth holds a prestigious
 BBSRC David Phillips fellowship.
 Cancer Biology: 53 grants awarded, 33 as PI, including programme grants from Cancer
 Research UK (Bayliss, Ladbury), project funding from UKRI (BBSRC, MRC), EU, charities
 (Academy of Medical Sciences, Bloodwise, Kay Kendall Fund). Members are recipients of
 personal fellowships: Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship (Zeqiraj) and Alan Turing
 Fellowship (Westhead).
 Cell and Organismal Biology: 66 grants awarded, 29 as PI, including UKRI (BBSRC, EPSRC,
 MRC), NIHR, charities (British Heart Foundation (BHF), Wellcome Trust), industry (Depuy
 International Ltd, Sanofi Genzyme) and NC3Rs. Scarff holds a prestigious BHF Intermediate
 Research Fellowship. Strong links with Structural Biology to understand human
 neurodegenerative amyloid diseases is reflected through collaborative grant income from the
 Wellcome Trust to Structural Biology:Radford/Ranson and van Oosten-Hawle.
 Ecology & Evolution: 78 grants awarded, 66 as PI, including UKRI (BBSRC, MRC, NERC), EU,
 UK and non-EU Government (BEIS, DEFRA), charities (Leverhulme Trust, Gates Foundation),

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industry (Aquatera Ltd, Fresca Group Ltd). Benton, Kunin and Sait are key drivers of the £8.9M
 GCRF AFRICAP grant, making agriculture and food production in Sub-Saharan Africa more
 productive, sustainable and resilient to climate change.
 Integrative Membrane Biology: 60 grants awarded, 38 as PI, including UKRI (BBSRC, MRC),
 EU, charities (Academy of Medical Sciences, Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust). This includes
 funding to develop new technologies, including the Leeds integrated atomic force and confocal
 microscopy for life science applications (Richter).
 Microbiology: 87 grants awarded, 64 as PI, including UKRI (BBSRC, MRC), EU, Human Frontier
 Science Program, industry (Oxford Drug Design), charities (Academy of Medical Sciences, Kidney
 Research UK, Medical Research Foundation, Wellcome Trust). Three prestigious externally-
 funded fellowships support the salaries and research activities of Herod (MRC), Mankouri and
 Tomlinson,J (Royal Society). Research also tackles challenges in the Global South, highlighted
 by the development of VLP-based vaccines for polio (Stonehouse/Rowlands), continuously funded
 by WHO since 2010 and Royal Society and Newton funding with colleagues in South Africa on
 HIV-related cancers (Whitehouse).
 Plant Science: 62 grants awarded, 57 as PI, including UKRI (BBSRC, NERC), EU Government,
 charities (Leverhulme Trust). Dixon holds a prestigious UKRI-FLF; Benitez-Alfonso also applied
 for a UKRI-FLF during this REF period, which was recently successful. The group has also
 attracted £622K in industrial funding (Bennett-Geofabrics, Davies-Bayer, Kepinski-Syngenta,
 Urwin-Sinochem & Syngenta).
 Structural Biology: 93 grants awarded, 53 as PI, including UKRI (BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC),
 industry (Freeline Therapeutics Ltd, MedImmune Ltd, Syngenta), charities (Leverhulme Trust,
 Wellcome Trust, Medical Research Foundation Fellowship to Patel,) Wellcome Trust investigator
 awards to Radford and Stockley, multi-user equipment awards (Ranson). Radford is also recipient
 of a prestigious Royal Society Research Professorship.

 3.2. Research Infrastructure and Facilities

 FBS concentrates research within 4 connected buildings, containing all infrastructure, enhancing
 accessibility for researchers, promoting collaboration through shared postgraduate and
 postdoctoral write-up areas, laboratory space and facilities. During this REF period, FBS
 commenced a new £32.25M scheme, refurbishing 4900m 2 of space within our Garstang building,
 which houses a large proportion of UOA5 staff, providing a flexible working environment adaptable
 to the fast-moving changes within biological sciences research. This facilitates interdisciplinary
 work, providing flexible laboratory space for collaborations between biologists, clinicians,
 physicists and engineers. We provide ‘well-found laboratories’ through an annual fund for
 maintenance and purchase of essential equipment, ensuring basic infrastructure and equipment
 (£50K per annum to this purpose). During this REF period, UoL has made a substantial £17M
 strategic investment (alongside ~£1.8M from Wellcome Trust) in two UOA5-based facilities,
 Electron Microscopy and NMR. This positions UoL in a UK-leading and globally competitive
 position in Structural Biology. A further UoL £2.3M investment in the University Farm enhances
 agri-systems and agri-tech research, supporting the Plant Science initiative, Future Crops. This
 significant investment in facilities (£21.3M in total), has contributed to a substantial uplift in
 successful new funding applications (Table 2).

 3.2i. Support for Research and Impact
 Support for UOA5 research and impact comprises 35.2 FTE (19.2 FTE administrative and 16 FTE
 technical support). Administration support for R&I applications and awards is supplied via the
 Faculty Research and Innovation Office (FRIO; 6.4 FTE), providing a streamlined 'inception to
 completion and impact' service. FRIO support the costing of applications, provide advice on
 funders’ rules and regulations and help navigate through application systems. They also provide
 financial support for live awards and submit financial reports to funders. The FBS RIDM (1.0 FTE)
 identifies funding opportunities and works directly with academics supporting and developing
 applications and innovation proposals, including working with business partners. The importance
 of this new role is exemplified by our success in obtaining large interdisciplinary cross-faculty
 awards (sLoLa 2020 and GCRF AFRICAP, Section 3.1), where the RIDM project manages
 programmes from start to delivery. A Research Impact Officer (0.5 FTE) assists with impact

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 delivery, supporting the preparation of impact documents, delivery and training for impact,
 management of internal faculty impact funds (Section 1.4) and development of REF ICSs. Other
 FRIO staff (3.26 FTE) provide administrative assistance and secretarial support to UOA5 research
 groups and cross-faculty centres for seminar programmes, internal peer review, open access, and
 summer research studentships. These activities are supported by a broader network within
 Research and Innovation Services (RIS), including the central research development team who
 support over-lapping activities with UOA5 (Astbury, Global Health, Food), innovation development,
 contracts and commercial services.

 Support for other research-related activities is provided at faculty level. FBS has a core team of
 technical support (16 FTE) underpinning all of its research activity such as: autoclave & media
 service; purchasing; distribution and shipment of goods inwards and outwards; waste disposal;
 inventory and record keeping; correct storage and archiving of samples; addressing compliance
 with numerous licencing bodies (Home Office and DEFRA). Health and Safety (3.0 FTE) provide
 induction training, assistance with COSHH, radiation protection and GM work. The Human
 Resources Office (3.8 FTE) assist with staff recruitment, staff review and development, monitoring
 of probation. Purchasing of research-related items (including assistance with tendering processes)
 is conducted via the University Procurement Office. A dedicated team advises on the acquisition
 of high-value laboratory equipment, undertaking open and transparent tendering when
 appropriate. An Operational Procurement team support day-to-day acquisitions of lower-value
 supplies and services. Computing software and hardware is purchased, installed and maintained
 by University IT Service, and also provide annual IT-based training for research staff, including
 laboratory safety and on-line security courses.

 3.2ii. Research Facilities
 FBS advanced research facilities underpin high-quality, impactful UOA5-based research across
 the university and externally. Making equipment available through open, multi-user research
 facilities, they promote and enable interdisciplinary research across campus, through cross-faculty
 centres: Astbury, GFEI and the University farm (Section 4.1). These centres are outward-facing,
 allowing researchers to work with colleagues in academia and industry, across the UK and
 internationally. The research facilities work in partnership, providing a network of synergistically
 aligned equipment and expertise that spans UOA5 research. Research facilities are managed by
 the Head of FBS facilities (0.6 FTE) and experienced Facility Managers and, in most cases,
 additional support staff, providing expert advice, guidance and training. The FBS Facilities
 Committee provides a formal governance structure for the strategic, operational and budgetary
 oversight of research facilities, combined with a Facility Managers’ forum sharing common issues
 and best practice. In this REF period, UoL has invested £21.3M directly into research facilities
 upgrades, and invested more in day-to-day operation, staffing and maintenance of equipment.
 This includes an ambitious £17M investment in EM and NMR which has revolutionised UOA5
 research capabilities and placed Leeds amongst the best-equipped institutions for cryo-EM-based
 structural biology worldwide.

 Electron Microscopy Facility offers state-of-the-art technology for imaging biological specimens,
 with a particular focus on high-end structural biology, housing two ThermoFisher Titan Krios 300
 kV electron microscopes equipped with direct electron detectors, to be upgraded in 2021 (£1M
 Wellcome multi-user equipment grant). These sit alongside three additional transmission electron
 microscopes and a comprehensive host of ancillary equipment, providing a comprehensive
 pathway from sample preparation to structure. The facility occupies a newly-refurbished,
 dedicated space, forming a state-of-the-art facility with a much broader set of capabilities than
 previously available, providing the ability to image cells, tissues and organisms and perform
 correlative light-electron imaging (£431K-Wellcome Trust, 2017). Dedicated computational
 infrastructure allows rapid analysis of data, including on-the-fly data processing pipelines for single
 particle data. The facility provides high quality training to both internal and external communities,
 hosting several training courses/year attended by academic and industry researchers. This
 program is to be significantly expanded from 2021 with a £1M Wellcome/MRC co-funded 5 year
 program in cryoEM training. Example outputs include UOA5-1943 and UOA5-1413, alongside
 significant external activity (Section 3.2iii).

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NMR Facility hosts a 950 MHz Bruker spectrometer comprising an Ascend Aeon helium-recycling
 magnet with Avance III HD console, specified with TXO and small-volume TCI cryoprobes;
 providing capabilities unique in the UK, including ultra-sensitive direct-detection of heteronuclei
 (15N and 13C). Alongside £433K from the Wellcome Trust, UoL has invested £6M to fund
 upgrades of existing 750 and 600 MHz instruments with new Bruker consoles and cryoprobes,
 positioning Leeds in the vanguard for exploiting advanced new methods, including direct N,C
 detection, for structural studies of large and intrinsically disordered proteins and nucleic acids.
 Example outputs include UOA5-522 and UOA5-715.
 X-ray Crystallography Facility supports sample preparation and data analysis for
 crystallographic projects, offering expertise to plan and oversee synchrotron data collection at
 Diamond Light Source and European Radiation Synchrotron Facility. Equipment includes
 Formulatrix robotic crystallisation systems with two fully automatic imaging and storage systems
 and a FRAP (Fluorescence Recovery After Photobleaching) imaging system for identifying optimal
 conditions for membrane protein crystallisation; a liquid handler robotic system allows users to
 design and prepare optimised crystallisation screens around known conditions. Example outputs
 include UOA5-1747 and UOA5-3288.
 Bioimaging and Flow Cytometry Facility contains cutting-edge super-resolution imaging; iSIM
 (instant structured illumination microscopy) and 3D PALM/STORM (photoactivatable light
 microscopy/stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy) via >£2M of external funding. Two LSM-
 880 instruments with Airyscan technology, a Delta Vision Deconvolution system allowing
 multicolour automated imaging of live and fixed cells and a unique vertical confocal (LSM-800 with
 Airyscan) for imaging plants (BBSRC ALERT16) support a large number of users. Light sheet
 imaging through a LaVision Light Sheet microscope enables 3D imaging of large tissue samples.
 Two epi-fluorescence microscopes are also equipped with colour CCD cameras providing general
 fluorescence and histology imaging and an automated multicolour slide scanner enabling high
 content imaging. Flow cytometry and cell sorting (FACS) capabilities include 2x CytoFLEX flow
 cytometry analysers and a FACSMelody Cell sorter (BBSRC ALERT 16) allowing multicolour
 analysis and cell sorting. Dedicated laboratory space including tissue culture facility supports
 sample preparation. Data and image analysis software for microscopy and FACS is provided on
 offline workstations. Example outputs include UOA5-614 and UOA5-1865.
 Mass Spectrometry Facility specialises in structural capabilities (including HDX-MS, fast
 photochemical oxidation (FPOP) foot-printing and chemical cross linking-MS), fully exploiting the
 power of MS alongside cryo-EM and NMR in driving integrative structural approaches for complex
 biological systems. A Synapt G2S-i, Xevo G2-XS QTOF and an automated HDX liquid handling
 system has been purchased (£340K-BBSRC). Investment in native and ion mobility MS (£415K-
 Wellcome Trust) enabled the purchase of two state-of-the-art-systems: the Q-Exactive Plus
 UHMR (modified for high-mass analysis through collaboration agreements with Thermo-
 Scientific); and a TOFwerk IMS-TOF, the first commercial instrument for performing conventional
 ion mobility drift-time measurements in combination with MS. Example outputs include UOA5-644
 and UOA5-2903.
 Protein Production and Biophysical Characterisation hosts a suite of equipment for the
 production and rigorous biophysical characterisation of macromolecules and their interactions.
 Extensive protein production capabilities were bought online, in a recent (2017) addition to FBS’
 facilities through UoL and Royal Society investment (£630K). A complete gene-to-sample pipeline
 for generation of structural biology-ready proteins in E. coli, insect and mammalian cells is
 available. It offers high-throughput PCR, cloning and protein expression screening with an 8-
 channel Hamilton Star liquid-handling robot with on-deck thermal cycle, large scale growth with
 ten high capacity shaking incubators (two with CO 2 for mammalian expression); and the latest
 AKTA chromatography systems for purification. Example outputs include Cockburn#1 and
 Tuma#2. Biophysical analysis includes surface plasmon resonance (BIAcore T200 and 3000),
 isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC200), microscale thermophoresis (Monolith NT.115) and
 circular dichroism. Example outputs include UOA5-205 and UOA5-374.
 High-performance Computing and Storage is extensively used in UOA5 for data analysis and
 simulation (e.g. processing of multi-TB datasets from single-particle cryo-EM; molecular dynamics
 simulations using coarse-grained or experimentally-restrained metadynamics approaches). This
 is provided at university level, supported by capital investments from the stake-holder Faculties of
 £1M biennially, and supplemented by ~£90K from UOA5 researchers in 2017 and ~£100K in 2019.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This funding established a 4500 core facility (45 Tflops), with an expansion of 3000 cores (60
 Tflops) being added and >100TB for parallel file storage. A multi-petabyte Data Storage Facility
 has recently been created to archive research data required by UKRI and other funding bodies.
 These resources are essential for multiple outputs including UOA5-721 and UOA5-1414.
 Pathogenic Viruses Suite is a new £1.4M facility funded by a Royal Society Wolfson Laboratory
 Refurbishment Scheme (£250K, 2016), complemented by UoL contribution of £1.15M. The facility
 provides two laboratories, one at Biological Safety Level 2 (BSL2), and one at BSL3. Alongside
 standard equipment, each laboratory contains an Incucyte S3 live cell imaging system (Wellcome
 multiuser equipment grant 2020, £189K, complemented by UoL investment of £63K). The BSL3
 laboratory also contains a Class III cabinet for SARS-CoV-2 work and a confocal microscope with
 live-cell imaging capability (Zeiss LSM780, Royal Society). Example outputs include UOA5-654
 and UOA5-2836.
 Plant Growth Suite has extensive plant growth and tissue culture facilities, consisting of 9
 containment glasshouses providing temperate, Mediterranean and tropical environments for the
 contained growth of wild type and transgenic plants, one is adapted for working with aphids. These
 glasshouses are linked to a suite of plant growth rooms and growth cabinets providing controlled
 environment conditions with GM containment. Eight additional roof-top containment glasshouses
 provide growth conditions for temperate and tropical plants. There are also extensive facilities for
 the maintenance and propagation of plant tissue culture material. Example outputs include UOA5-
 562 and UOA5-1396.
 University Animal Units comprise two state-of-the-art facilities. A high-health status mouse only
 facility specialising in cancer research and the production of transgenic mouse lines, and a multi-
 species facility for mice, rats, rabbits, fish, birds and large animals, such as sheep and pigs. Large
 animals are also held at the University Farm for some procedures. Each unit has highly equipped
 surgical suites, rooms for behavioural analyses, Category II work and flexible space underpinning
 UOA5 research, as well as UoAs 1, 4 and 24. Example outputs include UOA5-123 and UOA5-
 1589.
 University Farm provides a new distinctive feature of our research infrastructure, encompassing
 265-hectare arable land growing wheat, barley, oil seed rape, vining peas and potatoes in rotation,
 with 35.5-hectare of permanent pasture and 6-hectare of agroforestry. For Plant Science the farm
 provides rain out shelters, test plots and field scale sites including field scale trials with GM crops.
 For Ecology & Evolution it provides pollinator plots, bee hives, pond mesocosms, small mammal
 trapping, soil sensors and a weather station. The farm is increasingly used in collaborations with
 York and Sheffield universities, FERA and Askham Bryan College and is a National Institute of
 Agricultural Botany test site. The farm is a critical component of our vision for food production,
 agri-systems and agri-tech research, reflected in UoL’s recent £2.3M investment in new
 instrumentation supporting Future Crops, Smart Agri-Systems, GFEI and other initiatives by
 providing state-of-the-art capabilities in hyperspectral crop imaging and biodiversity monitoring, in
 situ below-ground crop phenotyping and measurement of rhizosphere processes, and real-time
 monitoring of climate and hydrology. Funding for agricultural robotics and the informatics capacity
 required to integrate these data streams has facilitated significant new research activity in
 precision agriculture.

 3.2iii. Sharing of FBS high-end equipment with national and international communities
 State-of-the-art EM, NMR and MS equipment access is available free at the point of access to
 international audiences through Instruct-ERIC (from 2019), a pan-European distributed research
 infrastructure consortium, bringing significant new income and international collaborative
 opportunities. Cryo-EM equipment and expertise is also accessible through iNEXT discovery, a
 European Commission Horizon-2020 framework program. Both collaborative and fee-for-service
 access is provided to external academic and industry users, a significant income stream (>£700K
 for 2017-2020). As a member of the N8 network, all equipment is advertised via a shared
 database. This network also promotes collaborative interactions with their N8 counterparts,
 including the joint running of workshops (N8 Biophysics Symposia and NMR workshops). The
 NMR facility also has reciprocal access arrangements with other ultra-high field facilities, including
 the MRC national NMR facility, Crick Institute.



                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The diverse portfolio of UOA5 research reflects the collaborative and collegiate nature of our
 research. Exemplars are shown below both nationally and internationally.

 4.1. Collaborative Research Centres

 UOA5 provides leadership in multiple interdisciplinary cross-faculty centres of international repute.

 The Astbury Centre (Director-Radford; Deputy Director-Ranson:Structural Biology, Executive
 Committee-Tuplin:Microbiology), brings together >70 academics from three faculties, FBS,
 Engineering and Physical Sciences and FMH. UOA5 researchers within the 6 Biomedicine-related
 groupings and Plant Science are members of the Astbury Centre. It is a major centre for research
 and training in structural and molecular biology and hosts a Wellcome Trust 4-year PhD
 programme until 2023. Since 2016, Astbury has successfully hosted the “Astbury Conversation”,
 a biennial public event promoting the latest innovations in Structural Molecular Biology, including
 keynote lectures delivered by Nobel prize winners [Michael Levitt (2016), Brian Kobilka (2018),
 Richard Henderson (2020-delayed by COVID19)].

 Ecology & Evolution and Plant Science participate in multiple cross-faculty initiatives, especially
 with Earth and Environment and Food Science. The Priestley International Centre for Climate
 (Ecology & Evolution:Beger-management committee), established in 2016, drives climate science
 and policy across faculties. Priestley received £10M UoL investment in infrastructure, professorial
 and UAF appointments and PhD studentships. Ecology & Evolution:Hassall/Dunn/Hamer have
 been instrumental in establishing the Ecology section of Water@Leeds, an interdisciplinary sector-
 facing centre for water-related research. All are active members and currently supervise four PhD
 students in this area (with five graduated since 2009). Through Water@Leeds UOA5 researchers
 have established active collaborations with social scientists and hydrological researchers, leading
 to a Yorkshire Integrated Catchment Solutions Programme grant (iCASP) with local authorities
 (Dunn).

 GFEI (Plant Science:Kepinski-Associate Director) was established in 2016 with an investment
 plan of £40M in new staff and instrumentation at the University Farm and terrestrial observatory.
 UOA5 staff contribute strongly to the £40M research portfolio of GFEI academics, with Plant
 Science:Kepinski/Bennett/Davies/Dixon; Ecology & Evolution:Benton/Sait/Kunin central to
 initiatives focussed on the future of agriculture and food production. The farm site is also home to
 the Centre for Innovation Excellence in Livestock (CIEL) (£10M investment from UoL and
 industry). The cross-disciplinary Smart Agri-Systems draws together big data analytics and on-
 farm technology, providing systems-based solutions to agricultural challenges. Colleagues have
 also benefited from the N8 Research Partnership Agri-Food program, initiated in 2015 with £8M
 HEFCE funding and a further £1M from each N8 University. N8 funded pump-priming projects
 (Plant Science:Kepinski/Bennett), networking and learning events across the universities have
 driven collaborative activity in the agri-food sector and attracted £27M of external funding.

 UOA5 members founded and provide academic leadership for LeedsOmics (Cell Biology:Aspden,
 Cancer Biology:Westhead, Ecology & Evolution:Goodman/Duncan/O’Connell, Plant
 Science:Kepinski), a cross-faculty virtual institute bringing together researchers and data
 scientists from biological and health-related disciplines, generating a critical mass of ‘Omics-
 based’ researchers. LeedsOmics provides training in bioinformatic analysis and coding, seminar
 series and regular meetings to foster innovative research, exchange of knowledge across
 disciplines and collaborative grant proposals. UOA5 staff also communicate with the wider data
 science community through membership of Leeds Institute of Data Analytics (Cancer
 Biology:Westhead).




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2. UK Collaborations

 Our successful national collaborations have led to an increase in outputs with other UK institutions
 since REF2014 (increased from 46% to 50%). UOA5 members are integral to a range of UK-wide
 networks: Ecology & Evolution:Benton/Sait/Kunin and Plant Science:Kepinski/Knox are key
 members of AFRICAP, a major programme involving Chatham House, The Met Office and African
 agencies, making agriculture and food production in Sub-Saharan Africa more resilient to climate
 change.

 UOA5 staff are also involved in multi-site UK university networks: Technology Touching Life
 networks (Cell Biology:Peckham); Networks in Industrial Biotechnology and Bioenergy
 (Membranes:Jeuken, Biotechnology:Millner); Designing Future Wheat and Wheat Genetic
 Improvement Network (Plant Science:Dixon); EPSRC programme grant studying protein-protein
 interactions (PoPPi) (Structural Biology:Edwards); providing structural biology capabilities for
 CRUK (Cancer Biology:Bayliss); National Pollinators Strategy and Natural England Stewardship
 Planning consortia (Ecology & Evolution:Kunin); Better start initiative examining how natural
 environments contribute to health (Ecology & Evolution:Hassall); sLoLA developing new FMDV
 vaccines (Microbiology:Stonehouse/Rowlands); UKRI Chemical Biology network (PPI-net)
 (Structural Biology:Radford/Breeze/Edwards); BBSRC-funded sLoLa BRAVO (Plant
 Science:Bennett); BBSRC/NERC-funded Horticulture and Potato Initiative project to develop
 disease-resistant potatoes (Plant Science:Urwin) and NPRONET a multi-institute study focussing
 on artificial photosynthesis and bioenergy (Biotechnology:Seipke).

 We work extensively with National Institutes and Centres; Cancer Biology:Westhead serves as
 UoL lead for the Alan Turing Institute, providing expertise in data science and AI, formed from a
 partnership of 13 universities in these areas. Westhead is an Alan Turing Fellow, with significant
 interactions with the Health and Medical Sciences programme, focusing on machine learning in
 precision medicine. Representation on advisory boards of Rosalind Franklin Institute (Structural
 Biology:Radford) and Diamond Light Source (Structural Biology:Ranson/Cockburn;
 Membranes:Henderson) helps shape the direction of their research priorities. We have strong links
 with N8 research partnerships: Cancer Biology:Ladbury is academic lead, Targets for New
 Medicines; Plant Science:Bennett/Kepinski/Knox are involved in the N8 AgriFood theme in
 Sustainable Food Production; UoL hosts the Medical Technologies Innovation and Knowledge
 Centre, formally known as Regener8, a N8-funded programme at the interface of industry,
 academia, and clinical applications in regenerative medicine (Cell Biology:Ingham). We work
 closely with government bodies; DSTL (Biotechnology:McPherson), PHE (Microbiology:Barr) and
 Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board (Plant Science:Urwin).

 4.3. International Collaborations

 UOA5 has increased our international collaboration during this REF period to enhance our
 research impact globally (Figure 2), emphasised by an increase in outputs with international co-
 authors (increased from 40% to 59% since REF2014).

 Collaborations include GCRF-funded efforts tackling global infections. Microbiology:Whitehouse
 is a visiting Professor at Rhodes University, establishing strong links with Rhodes and KwaZulu-
 Natal universities, South Africa, through GCRF funding focusing on HIV-related cancers; GCRF
 funding has established new laboratories in Nigeria for vaccine research
 (Microbiology:Stonehouse); Ecology & Evolution:Quinnell leads a GCRF project developing a
 national plan of disease control for parasite-associated cysticercosis, with colleagues in Liverpool
 and Rwanda International Livestock Research Institute; Microbiology:Harris through Newton
 funding, is developing novel antiviral therapeutics with Federal University of Uberlândia, Brazil;
 Membranes:Goldman is developing new anti-protozoan drugs with the University of Helsinki,
 through €1.4M funding (2015-2021; Errko Foundation and Academy of Finland);
 Biotechnology:Seipke is developing natural products with antimicrobial properties through a
 BBSRC partnership award with University of Otago and ongoing collaborations with MIT and UC
 Berkeley.

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We engage in multiple European ITNs, including RAMP and ViBrANT (Membranes:Goldman),
 HONOURS (Microbiology:Barr, Structural Biology:Edwards, Biotechnology:Millner). Other EU
 initiatives include DROPSA and nEUROSTRESSPEP developing approaches to protect crops
 from pests using biocontrol agents (Ecology & Evolution:Isaac); EU COST action for marine
 spatial planning (Ecology & Evolution:Beger) and EU COST action for management of alien
 invasive species (Ecology & Evolution:Dunn).

 Plant Science (Baker/Benitez-Alfonso/Bennett/Davies/Denecke/Kepinski/Knox) established an
 initiative with the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, India.
 Supported by a BBSRC India Partnering Award, driving improvements in dryland agricultural
 systems through proof-of-concept and knowledge transfer. A GCRF translation award has
 established links in Uganda studying plant parasitic nematodes (Plant Science:Urwin) and
 BBSRC-NSF funding established clean gene-editing approaches in plants with Purdue University
 (Plant Science:West). Ecology & Evolution researchers have extensive international
 interdisciplinary links in mathematical modelling and genetics, Queensland and Stellenbosch
 universities (Ecology & Evolution:Beger, Kunin), and with social scientists from the Ashoka Trust
 for Research in Ecology and Environment, India (Ecology & Evolution:Sankaran). Extensive
 interdisciplinary networks have facilitated large interdisciplinary awards including AFRICAP,
 VOICE, BioDAR (Ecology & Evolution:Duncan/Hassall/Kunin), and an ESEB-funded Special
 Topic Network with Liverpool,
 Stockholm        and       Muenster
 assessing the effects of climate
 change on fertility (Ecology &
 Evolution:Bretman).
 Membranes:Jiang has multiple
 links with China investigating the
 role of ion channels in health and
 disease, through Chinese Scholar
 Council funding, and a Leeds-
 Zhejiang strategic partnership
 award.

 Structural Biology:Ranson/Breeze/Sobott are part of iNEXT-Discovery and Instruct-ERIC
 consortia, comprising 23 partners from 14 European countries, aiming to translate fundamental
 structure research into bio-scientific applications and provide open access to high-end structural
 biology services. Further International Partnerships exist with Osaka Institute for Protein Research
 (Structural Biology:Breeze) and MPI Martinsreid (Structural Biology:Radford).

 International collaborations and research capacity in Cancer Biology are strengthened by strong
 interactions with MD Anderson Cancer Centre (Cancer Biology:Ladbury), where UoL has signed
 a formal memorandum of understanding forging joint activities including student exchange, joint
 meetings between junior faculty and wider collaborative projects. Further links include Asian
 Medical Centre, Seoul (Cancer Biology:Bayliss/Wu) and the Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto
 (Cancer Biology:Zeqiraj). Ladbury is also a visiting Distinguished Professor, Indian Institute of
 Technology Bombay (Mumbai), helping to establish collaborative links and student training
 opportunities.

 UOA5 has also benefitted from multiple Cheney Fellowship awards, funded through UoL Alumni,
 enabling talented researchers to broaden their research network through enhanced interactions
 with UOA5 academics. Notable Cheney Fellows include Kelly Chibale (University of Cape Town,
 South Africa), Steve Polyak (University of Washington, USA), Preben Morth (University of Oslo,
 Norway) and Travis Beddoe (Monash University, Australia).

 4.4. Industrial Collaborations

 To address our global challenge in biomedicine we have extensive collaborations with the
 biopharmaceutical industry. Highlights include a collaboration with Avacta Life Sciences who

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 licensed the UoL Affimer patent (Biotechnology:Tomlinson,D/McPherson; ICS-UOA5-2) and
 recently signed collaboration deals worth >$300M to progress Affimers as research reagents and
 therapeutics. This technology also forms the basis of a £3.75M MRC Industry Collaboration
 Agreement (MICA), developing novel diagnostics for microbial disease. Research on tissue-
 implantation, artificial joint replacements and rejection of prosthetics (Cell Biology:Ingham, ICS-
 UOA5-1), in conjunction with companies including DePuy, Tissue & Eye Services at NHS Blood
 and Tissue Regenix, continues to have direct beneficial impact for patients. Structural
 Biology:Radford (with colleagues in Chemistry and Dentistry), developed a non-invasive treatment
 for early stage dental caries through understanding self-assembling peptides, leading to the
 formation of private Swiss company Credentis. Credentis licenced the UoL patent and
 commercialised this technology in Switzerland and EU (2010 onwards, UoA3 continuing ICS).

 Further thriving partnerships include: developing assays and devices for predicting the
 aggregation propensity of            therapeutic proteins with MedImmune and Pfizer
 (Biotechnology:Brockwell); trials testing a small-scale diagnostic in lymphoma patients with high
 grade disease in collaboration with HTG Molecular Diagnostics, USA (Cancer Biology:Westhead);
 identification of novel diagnostic biomarkers licenced by BioLegend, leading to the generation of
 diagnostic tools with Pfizer (Cell Biology:Stacey); developing the first-in-class inhibitors of the
 BRISC enzyme, reducing interferon signalling for the treatment of autoimmune diseases with
 JAMM Therapeutics (Cancer Biology:Zeqiraj); understanding how bactericidal antibodies target
 the     outer    membrane      of     Gram-negative     bacteria   with   Genetech      (Structural
 Biology:Ranson/Radford); developing next-generation VLP vaccine delivery platforms with
 Vaxxas, Australia, and Incepta, Bangladesh (Microbiology:Stonehouse); developing novel
 antimicrobial reagents with Oxford Drug Design and Cubist Pharmaceuticals via MICA funding
 (Microbiology:O’Neill); developing new MS instrumentation and protocols with Thermo-Fisher and
 Waters and implementation of these methods characterising biopharmaceuticals and membrane
 proteins with Astex, GlaxoSmithKline and Vertex (Structural Biology:Sobott); developing
 approaches for membrane protein studies with GlaxoSmithKline and UCB Pharma and improving
 EM grid preparation with STP labtech (Membranes:Muench); producing primary monomeric
 substrates for synthesis of plastics from cheap feedstocks in bacteria as an alternative to
 petrochemicals      with    Lucite     International,  Ingenza    and     Mitsubishi    Chemicals
 (Membranes:Henderson); developing and commercialising new reagents and techniques to
 rapidly map protein interactions with Redbrick Molecular (Structural Biology:Calabrese/Radford).

 Extensive industrial collaborations also help UOA5 address our global challenge in sustainable
 development. Highlights include: developing impact evaluation and mitigation measures from
 icebreaking vessels traveling through seal breeding areas with North Caspian Operating Company
 and TengizChevroil (Ecology & Evolution:Goodman, ICS-UOA5-6) and implementing risk
 assessments and evidence-based biosecurity to slow the spread of invasive non-native species
 with Yorkshire Water (Ecology & Evolution:Dunn ICS-UOA5-4). Collaborations with ADAS and
 local farmers help to understand practical limits on crop growth (Plant Science:Bennett);
 increasing the predictability of the vernalization period required for winter wheat with KWS and
 Limagrain (Plant Science:Dixon); developing technology for inducing steeper, deeper rooting in
 crops, licenced to PBL Technology (Plant Science:Kepinski); assessing the effects of nematode
 infestation of coffee plantations with Nestle, developing chemical compounds against nematodes
 with Enkochem and improving nematode resistance in plants with Syngenta (Plant
 Science:Urwin); finding plant-based alternatives to plastic packaging in collaboration with
 Futamura (Plant Science:Benitez-Alfonso); understanding regulatory mechanisms of plant gene
 expression in response to abiotic signals with Bayer Crop Science (Plant Science:Davies);
 assessing the impact of offshore wind farms on protected species with Vattenfall and MacArthur
 Green (Ecology & Evolution:Hamer).

 We have had >100 away days during this REF period with industrial partners, enhancing
 communication between UOA5 members and industrial collaborators. Such events are co-
 ordinated through cross-faculty centres (Section 4.1) and Sector Hubs (Pharmaceutical and
 Biopharmaceutical; Medical Technologies), as part of a £6M HEIF funding investment, providing
 structures to channel larger scale support for activities with high potential for impact and

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 innovation, marrying external market demand with UOA5 research and innovation
 strengths. Structural Biology (via Astbury) established an Industrial Advisory Group with ~30
 members from relevant industries. Industrial secondments and business engagement activities
 have also been secured via internal funding schemes; EPSRC IAA, MRC P2D and GrowMedTech.
 Moreover, our members routinely serve as consultants for a variety of companies: Smith and
 Nephew (Microbiology:O’Neill); Geofabrics and Fresca Group (Plant Science:Bennett); Novartis
 (Biotechnology:Seipke) and sit on Scientific Advisory Boards: Blueberry Therapeutics
 (Microbiology:O’Neill); Tissue Regenix (Cell Biology:Ingham); Credentis (Structural
 Biology:Radford).

 4.5. Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 UOA5 researchers have a close network of connections with key stakeholders including local
 government and intergovernmental organisations, allowing UOA5 members to effectively promote
 our science to policy makers: United Nations Environment Programme initiatives (Ecology &
 Evolution:Goodman/Hamer); European Food Safety Authority (Ecology & Evolution:Firbank);
 NGOs (Nature Conservancy and WWF (Ecology & Evolution:Beger); Yorkshire Wildlife Trust,
 Natural England, Forestry Commission, National Trust, Animal and Plant Health Agency, Centre
 for Ecology Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (Ecology & Evolution:Dunn/Kunin, ICS-UOA5-
 4;ICS-UOA5-7); DEFRA, Emeritus Prof Altringham, ICS-UOA5-5.

 Staff secondments are encouraged to enhance interactions with key stakeholders, Ecology &
 Evolution:Benton was appointed Champion of the UK’s Global Food Security programme (2011-
 2016) and joined Chatham House in 2016 as a Distinguished Visiting Fellow and subsequently
 Director of Energy Environment and Resources Department. Through these appointments he
 works with the UK government, EU and G20. He is global agenda steward of the World Economic
 Forum, and an author of the IPCC’s Special Report on Food, Land and Climate (2019), and UK’s
 Climate Change Risk Assessment (ICS-UOA5-3). Ecology & Evolution:Benton/Kunin/Sait and
 Plant Science:Kepinski/Knox have leadership roles in the £8.9M GCRF-AFRICAP project, which
 aims to improve policy making leading to sustainable, long-term food security in sub-Saharan
 Africa. AFRICAP involves researchers from multiple UoL UOAs and scientists from Chatham
 House, Met Office, University of Aberdeen and partner research organisations in Malawi, South
 Africa, Tanzania and Zambia, coordinated by the Food, Agriculture and Natural Resources Policy
 Analysis Network (FANRPAN) in South Africa. We further influence the national science strategy
 via our interactions with the major funding bodies; UOA5 members serve on a number of funding
 panels (Table 3) and Cell Biology:Peckham took part in the Royal Society Pairing Scheme (2015,
 with Mr Chris Green, MP).

 4.6. Development, promotion and dissemination of research and impact

 Promotion and dissemination of UOA5 research and impact beyond traditional academic routes
 to the public has received >£1.7M of external funding from BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, Physiological
 Society and Alzheimer’s Society. Many of our research findings have garnered substantial public
 attention. University Communications and Press Office provide widespread media coverage
 including television and radio (BBC TV, Radio 4, CNN), specialist magazines (Discover Magazine,
 Science Magazine and Chemistry World), national and international press (Guardian, New York
 Times, Observer, India Times, Economist). We organise and participate in regular public
 engagement initiatives (Cafe Scientifique, Ilkley/Otley Science Festival, Leeds Philosophical and
 Literature Society, The Astbury Conversation, Be Curious, Pint of Science, Quantum Sauce). We
 promote biological sciences to school students with frequent and regular outreach visits to schools
 (annually >800 school pupils, via 18 workshops with 48 local schools). For the last 9 years, Plant
 Science have participated in the annual Gatsby Summer School for 100 undergraduates, fostering
 an interest in plant science. Moreover, >70 UOA5 academics and researchers deliver ‘Discovery
 Zone’ annually. In 2019, 460 Key Stage 2 & 3 pupils participated in hands-on science exploration.
 Overall, FBS outreach activities annually engage with ~5000 school children, in 92 different
 events, covering 70 local schools.


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.7. A selection of indicators of esteem and external recognition are outlined in Table 3
 below.

 Table 3.
  Indicator         Selected Examples
  National          Chair/Deputy of UKRI Grant Panel (BBSRC-Peckham; EPSRC-Ingham;
  advisory board    MRC-Westhead)
                    UKRI/Charity Grant Panel (Academy of Medical Sciences-Ingham; BBSRC-
                    Jeuken/Whitehouse; CRUK-Ladbury; DEFRA-Hamer; MRC-Breeze;
                    Wellcome Trust-Radford/Stockley/Stonehouse)
                    National Science Facility Panel (Diamond-Henderson; Harwell-Radford;
                    MRC NMR-Breeze; N8-Radford; STFC-Peckham)
                    National Society Committee (Biochemical Society-Zeqiraj; British
                    Ornithologists Union-Hamer; Microbiology Society-Stonehouse; BSCB-
                    Ponnambalam; Royal Microscopy Society-Peckham; UKPSF-Kepinski)
  International     European Funding Panel (EU H2020-Sobott; French NRA-Peckham;
  advisory board    Science Foundation, Ireland-O’Neil)
                    European Review Committee (GARDP-O’Neill; HCERES-Knox; Food Safety
                    Authority-Firbank; International Society for Seed Science-West)
                    International Industrial Advisory Board (Mitsubushi-Henderson)
                    International Scientific Advisory Board (Max Planck-Radford)
  Editorial         Analyst-Sobott, Cells-Jiang, IJO-Whitehouse, IJSAR-Firbank, JBC-
  membership        Peckham, JGV-Harris, JMB-Radford, JTE-Ingham, MBE-O’Connell,
                    Microbiology-O’Neil MMB-Henderson, Molecular Cancer-Blair, Nature
                    Conservation-Kunin, PeerJ-Paci, PLoS NTD-Quinnell, Plant Journal-Davies,
                    Planta-Knox, Scientific Reports-Edwards, Virology-Barr
  Invited keynote   FASEB Conference (Radford)
  speaker           FEBS Conference (Richter)
                    Gordon Research Conference (Jeuken, Radford, Stockley)
                    Pathology UK (Aspden)
                    International Society for Behavioural Ecology (Bretman)
                    Association for General and Applied Microbiology (Goldman) Microbiology
                    Society (Harris, Stonehouse, Whitehouse)
                    European Congress of Virology (Harris)
                    International Conference on Enzymology (Henderson)
                    World Congress of Biomaterials (Ingham)
                    Plant Biology Europe (Kepinski)
                    World Congress: Oxidative stress (Jiang)
                    International Meeting of the ESR (Pliotas)
  Organiser -       International Symposium on HCV-Dublin (Harris)
  international     International Society of Electrochemistry-USA (Jeuken)
  conference        International Ion Channel Conference-China (Jiang)
                    Free energy landscapes-Zurich (Krivov)
                    EMBO Pseudoenzymes workshop (Zeqiraj)
  Prizes and        Order of the British Empire; Fellow of the Royal Society; Fellow of the
  Awards            Biophysical Society and Royal Society of Chemistry: Rita and John Cornforth
                    Award (Radford)
                    German Ornithologists' Union: Honorary Life Membership (Hamer)
                    European Patent Office: Finalist in European Inventor of the Year; Fellow of
                    the Academy of Medical Sciences (Ingham)
                    International Ferruccio Ritossa ECR Award 2019 (van Oosten-Hawle)
                    Biochemical Society ECR award 2019 (Wu)
                    Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology (McDowall, Stonehouse) Honorary
                    Fellow Society for the Environment (Benton)
                    Honorary Member of Microbiology Society (Rowlands)



                                                                                          Page 22
