Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 20 – Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview and Unit Structure

 Social policy research at Edinburgh Napier University (ENU) is interdisciplinary, innovative, and
 impactful. We deliver high-quality research capable of advancing collective understanding of
 complex social and cultural realities. Our ambition is to be known nationally and internationally
 for our research, delivering positive and meaningful societal impact. Our interdisciplinary
 research is concerned with understanding how societies across the world meet human needs for
 security, mobility, justice, work and wellbeing. As such, our research is aligned with the three
 University-level research themes (Sustainable Communities, Information Society, and
 Wellbeing), which provide a strategic context for cross-university activity and interdisciplinary
 research in areas of strength and external relevance.

 As of 31 July 2020, there were 9.75 Category A staff in the Unit, all of them from the Social
 Sciences Subject Group located within the School of Applied Sciences (SAS). A number of
 University staff, who are developing in research, are also part of the broader research
 environment associated with this Unit.

 This is the first University submission to UoA 20. It reflects a rebalancing within the Unit and
 School of the relationship between teaching and research activities since August 2013. By
 drawing on the University’s core values of being ambitious, professional, innovative and
 inclusive, the Unit has developed its research capacity and fostered an inclusive and vibrant
 research culture in the period.

 Research groups and research themes
 Research in the Unit is organised around four themes, all involving diverse interdisciplinary
 collaborations:
    -   Community and restorative justice, imprisonment (Morrison, Buchan, Maglione)
    -   Policing and security (Aston, Wooff)
    -   Migration and mobilities (Guma, Sharapov)
    -   Military and working lives (Morrison, Winterton, Maclean)

 Our research both anticipates and shapes key changes in policy and practice. For example, in
 the Unit’s has strongly influenced policing (Aston, Wooff) and military family policies
 (Winterton). This has led to a submitted case-study on ‘Stop and Search’ police practice. The
 Unit also hosts Sharapov’s research on forced migration and trafficking of human beings,
 Wooff’s research on police custody, Wooff’s and Buchan’s work on special constables,
 Morrison’s work with the Scottish Prison Service, and Guma’s work with the Home Office.

 The organisational structures developed to support the delivery of research and impact-
 generating activities are; (a) research networks and centres, and (b) the Scottish Institute for
 Policing Research.

 (a) Research Networks and centres:
 - Migration and Mobilities Research Network (established in 2017, convened by Sharapov)
 - Armed Forces Network (established in 2019, Winterton)


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 - The Scottish Centre for Law Enforcement and Public Health (launched in 2019, Aston and
 Wooff)

 These entities bring together staff with cognate research interests from across the University.
 They also act as foci for externally facing activities such as research funding applications,
 knowledge exchange, and public engagement activities.

 (b) Scottish Institute for Policing Research (SIPR):
 Colleagues working under the Policing and Security theme have been active members of the
 Scottish Institute for Policing Research (SIPR) (supported by an annual fee paid by the
 University). SIPR is a consortium of 14 of Scotland’s universities and the Scottish Police Service,
 established to carry out high quality, independent research, and to make evidence-based
 contributions to policing policy and practice. The Unit has benefitted from its continuous
 engagement with SIPR expertise and associated funding opportunities. In July 2018, ENU
 became a host institution for SIPR (transfer of £379,000, with an additional annual income of
 £226,000), which is now led by Aston, and which employs a dedicated Knowledge Exchange
 and Business Manager.

 Research Objectives During the Assessment Period

 Our key aim is has been to develop applied, critical and interdisciplinary social research, which
 responds to the changing needs of society and delivers lasting social and cultural impact. Our
 strategic objectives during the assessment period were:
 1: To develop a creative, collaborative, and inclusive research culture across all research
 themes.

 2: To kick-start social research at ENU through the appointment of a new generation of excellent
 researchers.

 3: To extend the European and global engagement of our researchers.

 4: To put in place robust structures to support staff in conducting their research and developing
 their skills.

 5: To expand the size and enhance the learning experience of our research student community.

 6: To increase the number of researchers holding research grants, and to increase external
 grant income.

 Research Objectives Over the Next Five Years

 The school and unit are committed to the University’s overarching research strategy as outlined
 in REF5a. Future school strategies are informed by the institutions five-year focus on staff
 development, increasing innovation, and developing international research partnerships, and
 aim to feed into the broad strategic aims of the University. Future interdisciplinary opportunities
 will be guided by the new University Themes.

 Given our recent consolidation as a Unit, our research strategy for the next five years remains as
 outlined above. We will continue to realise this strategy as follows:

 1. Creative, collaborative, inclusive research culture: we will continue developing existing and
 create new networks to support our critically orientated research. Hosting SIPR will provide an
 important focus for our research on policing policy and practice.

 2. New generation of excellent researchers: we will continue providing a structured system of
 support for early career researchers.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Extending international engagement: we will seek to realise the full potential of new and
 existing collaborative partnerships with current research partners in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Brazil,
 Colombia, Ukraine, Finland, and the USA and via the European Research Group on Military and
 Society, through joint funding applications and staff and research student exchanges.

 4. Robust structures to support staff: we will continue to develop a mentoring scheme for all
 researchers by launching a training programme for research mentors.

 5. Our research student community: we will intensify our efforts to attract PGR students. We will
 continue our engagement with training initiatives provided by the Scottish Graduate School of
 Social Sciences (ESRC DTP), where Sharapov has been serving as Associate Director since
 January 2020.

 6. Increasing research income: we will build on current and develop new research collaborations
 to secure external research funding.

 Enabling Impact

 We support strategic approaches to research which have a common principle of high value
 impact. Critical to this mission is direct engagement with the beneficiaries of our research, as
 illustrated by the following examples.

 Media engagement
 We work closely with the University media team to enable dissemination of findings to the
 general public. For example, Maclean's research into the effects of the Work Capability
 Assessment on individuals with mental health conditions was featured in The Independent, and
 discussed on media outlets such as the Victoria Derbyshire show.

 Wooff’s work has featured in Wired magazine, Quality magazine, The Scotsman and Edinburgh
 Evening Telegraph. He has also been invited on the BBC John Beattie show and French
 National Radio to discuss his research. Aston has been quoted in the Washington Post, The
 Scottish Sun, the National, the Financial Times and the Edinburgh Evening News and her stop
 and search research was featured in 2015 and 2017 by BBC News, The Scotsman and the
 Herald. She has been interviewed on TV by the BBC News, STV News and Scotland Tonight,
 and on radio by Scotland today and the BBC world service.

 Public and policy-maker engagement
 Unit members are regularly invited to give evidence to the Scottish Parliament and Scottish
 Government committees. Maglione and Buchan’s research on the local provision of restorative
 justice in Scotland fed into the Scottish Government’s Restorative Justice Action Plan, to support
 its aim of providing restorative justice services throughout Scotland by 2023. In March 2018,
 Wooff gave evidence to the Cross-Party Group on Rural Policy in the Scottish Parliament
 following his research on rural policing. Wooff also sits on the Home Office Custody Design
 Board which resulted in his project ‘dignity of detainees’ becoming a core part of custody estates
 strategy for England and Wales. Due to Wooff’s research, he was also appointed to the steering
 group of the British Society of Criminology Policing Network, where he is the National Lead for
 the ‘policing research into teaching’ portfolio.

 Morrison gave evidence to the Justice Committee on the Presumption Against Short Sentences
 Legislation and was quoted in the Committee Report. Aston represents the University on
 various Police Scotland external reference groups. For example, she chaired the Cyber Kiosks
 (digital triage) External Reference Group, whose 2019 report resulted in the Parliamentary
 Justice Committee (sub-committee Policing) keeping this area under review.

 Members of the Unit also worked with residents of some of the most deprived communities in
 Scotland (Broomhouse, Sighthill and Parkhead) on a participatory research project aimed at

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strengthening the University's ties with local communities. In 2020, Sharapov and Guma
 received dedicated University funding (£1,500) to support public engagement with Broomhouse
 community members to mark the World Refugee Day. The activity highlighted the role of
 research in supporting those who flee violence and persecution, and aimed to tackle racism and
 discrimination.

 Morrison and Winterton have been active participants in the national Veterans in Custody
 Support Officer (VICSO) Network within the Scottish Prison Service. Their ongoing engagement
 led to the development of research projects, including a successful Carnegie Research
 Incentives grant funded study, the findings of which were disseminated at biannual meetings and
 through practitioner reports. Morrison is also leading on a programme of engagement with the
 Scottish Prison Service (SPS), with ENU being one of the SPS’s preferred research suppliers.
 As a result of Morrison’s two-year secondment to SPS, she continues to advise SPS on staff
 training and development.

 Sharapov has collaborated with a number of international anti-trafficking practitioner networks,
 including the European Civil Society Platform against Trafficking in Human Beings, and the
 Global Alliance against Traffic in Women. He has been a regular invited speaker at events
 organised by the Regional Implementation Initiative on Preventing & Combating Human
 Trafficking, which brings together anti-trafficking practitioners from across Central and Eastern
 Europe.

 The focus on strengthening relationships with policymakers to influence social policy for the
 benefit of vulnerable, marginalised, or under-represented communities has delivered significant
 impact, as evidenced by submitted impact case studies. Our ‘Stop and Search’ case study
 details how research has contributed to significant changes to the law, policy and practice of
 stop and search in Scotland, leading to a 67% reduction in 'stop events'. Our ‘Equate Scotland’
 case study is a testimony to our efforts to closely engage and cultivate research relationships
 with key industry partners and policy audiences. This has delivered a series of significant
 improvements in increasing meaningful representation of women in STEM training and
 workforce.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 Within the University, interdisciplinary research is facilitated through cross-university themes
 (Information Science, Sustainable Communities, and Health and Wellbeing). At the Unit level,
 activities to foster interdisciplinarity included:

    -   Brief Encounters: fortnightly lunch-time interdisciplinary meetings to enable colleagues
        and visiting scholars to discuss their work-in-progress and plans for external grant
        applications.
    -   Migration and Mobilities Research Network (Sharapov, Guma): brings together diverse
        expertise in migration and mobility from across the University, including human
        geography, sociology, economics and finance, tourism, intercultural communication, law,
        languages. It organised conferences in 2018 and 2019 for migration and mobility
        researchers and practitioners from across Scotland and beyond.
    -   In 2018, the Unit hosted an interdisciplinary symposium for academics researching work
        and employment in healthcare settings, and funded the attendance of speakers including
        the editor of Work, Employment and Society Dr Elizabeth Cotton, and industrial relations
        researcher Dr Jo Grady.

 10 of 24 REF outputs in this submission are interdisciplinary in nature. Aston and Wooff are
 collaborating with colleagues in the School of Health and Social Care (SHSC) concerning law
 enforcement and public health. They have co-organised a large international conference, co-
 supervised PhD students, and developed joint grant applications and publications. These

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives culminated in the launch of the Scottish Centre for Law Enforcement and Public Health
 in October 2019. SIPR funded a dedicated research project on health and policing in 2017,
 which fostered this collaboration and resulted in three peer-reviewed articles.

 Winterton collaborated with Skelton (UoA 3) to understand the lived experience of miscarriages
 of justice, and to expand the UK research capacity in this area (securing British Academy
 funding towards this work). Winterton also collaborated with Martindale and Westbury (UoA 24
 on various studies with military families and veterans.

 Members of the Unit jointly supervise a number of interdisciplinary PhD research projects. These
 bring together; policing and law (Aston, Wooff), policing, criminal justice and education (Wooff,
 Aston, Morrison, Caddell), sociology, human geography and law (Sharapov, Guma,
 Whitecross) and mental health, policing and psychology (Murray, Aston, Maclean).

 Open Research Environment

 All staff act in accordance with University open access policies and follow the Concordat on
 Open Research Data. The output profile being submitted is within the tolerance level for the unit.
 Of the full output profile being submitted for UoA20, 22/24 (or 92%) are available to access on
 the University repository and are compliant with the concordat. Only two outputs are unavailable
 to access through the repository, one due to confidentiality of the report and one due to specific
 licencing restrictions.

 In addition, we specifically:

 a) Encourage open access to research outputs via the institutional repository (Worktribe RMS).
 Staff are encouraged to publish links to repositories on all conference/journal papers.

 b) Encourage the use of research-focused platforms such as ResearchGate, Academia.edu, and
 googlescholar to share publications and data.

 d) Encourage public engagement activities (as detailed above), including public lectures to
 disseminate research results.

 (e) Ensure all research proposals are peer-reviewed, to ensure that a clear open-access
 strategy is embedded from the outset.

 Research Integrity

 Our research adheres to relevant professional ethical requirements and standards. GDPR has
 specific training events are delivered on repeat occasions for all researchers, and we require all
 staff to undergo an annual refresher course.

 The University bespoke research management system (Worktribe) also incorporates a dedicated
 module on ethics. All research proposals, prior to external submission, must undergo a School-
 level ethical review by a team of academics from a range of disciplines (via the established
 School Research Integrity Committee). Only then is permission granted to commence work or
 present it (when required) for external review. Three members of the Unit sit on the committee
 (Brown, Sharapov, Winterton).

 Approval management is followed by compliance monitoring. Once approval is granted, ethical
 applications remain live documents to ensure continued oversight and compliance. Similarly, all
 projects, regardless of their scale, must present a formal data management plan prior to
 approval. In addition, individual guidance on developing ethical research projects is provided to
 PhD students throughout their research project as a part of progress monitoring activities.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 As of 31 July 2020, there were 9.75 FTE Category A staff submitted under this Unit, including 3
 FTE Associate professors, 1 FTE Reader, and 5.75 FTE lecturers. 100% of submitted staff were
 on permanent contracts.

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Our aim is to develop capacity within social sciences by the appointment of excellent early
 career researchers alongside senior staff with international reputations. Since 2015, social
 sciences at ENU have been revitalised through the recruitment of a new generation of excellent
 researchers across all our research themes (Strategic Aim 2). Many have transnational research
 interests and connections (Strategic Aim 3). Within the Unit, 7 (out of 10) staff have been
 recruited in the assessment period (Wooff, Morrison, Buchan, Sharapov, Guma, Maclean,
 Maglione) and three (Aston, Winterton, Wooff) have been promoted or awarded title.

 Research leadership
 In each school, a senior member of staff is designated Head of Research, and is responsible for
 the overall research profile and budget (0.5 FTE). Day to day research support is available
 through discussion and advice from Heads of Research, and the Research, Innovation and
 Enterprise Office. Formal mechanisms at the School level include; advice on potential funding
 streams, support for formal funding costings and proposal preparation, and access to the
 internal research funding provided at the School and University levels (via open and competitive
 application process).

 The School relies on indirect costs generated via research income costed on a FEC basis to
 drive new research endeavours, including pilot studies, feasibility exercises, and PhD stipends.
 Beneficiaries within the Unit include Wooff, Aston, Brown, Sharapov, Winterton, and
 Maglione. We encourage early career researchers to apply for such funding, and use this
 application process as a first stage mentoring exercise in terms of writing successful research
 proposals.

 Managing the researcher base
 All new academic staff are awarded protected time to establish a research programme over the
 first year of appointment (0.2FTE). They are also allocated reduced teaching loads in this year.
 Thereafter, staff research time allocation is aligned with agreed annual objectives in terms of
 funding applications and outputs. Staff with significant responsibility for research are guaranteed
 at least 0.2 FTE of protected research time, in addition to research time allocated through
 externally funded projects. We pursue individual researcher development through a formalised
 progress review system (My Contribution). This runs parallel to the University’s Academic
 Promotions Framework to ensure consistency between individual development plans and Unit
 level objectives.

 The 5-year School plan, updated on an annual basis, recognises the need for succession
 planning, particularly in leading research groups, and this is accounted for when determining the
 level at which new roles are recruited. The Unit is well positioned in terms of sustainability and
 succession planning, with 3 associate professors, 1 reader, and 5 lecturers demonstrating a
 balanced staff profile. All members of the unit hold PhD degrees and are on permanent
 contracts.

 The University does not have a fixed sabbatical policy. However, the School endeavours to
 support ad-hoc requests by staff (at any level or on any contract) for periods of research leave
 where the member of staff presents a specific proposal with tangible objectives, for example, by
 condensing teaching allocation into a single semester.
 Researcher support, training and development
 We have put in place robust structures to support staff in conducting their research (Strategic


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aim 4). Central to this is one-to-one research mentoring, with members of staff supported to
 access an experienced mentor. Additional support mechanisms include feedback and ‘feed-
 forward’ on papers, and peer review support for developing papers and grants (facilitated via
 Worktribe RMS). Academic writing support is available throughout the year via writing retreats
 and workshops.

 Staff have access to a range of internal and external researcher development opportunities
 provided by the University’s Research, Innovation, and Enterprise Office.

 The Social Sciences subject group has also developed the knowledge base and skills of
 researchers at all career stages by drawing on the expertise of ENU colleagues and external
 speakers (Strategic Aims 5, 6 & 7). For instance, in 2018-19 monthly ‘Research Wednesday’
 seminars (organised by Sharapov) addressed the following topics; ‘How to write impactful peer
 review publications’, ‘Creating impact, making a difference’, and ‘Academic referencing
 management and staying up-to-date in your field’. In 2019-20, the focus was on supporting staff
 in their academic writing, including a series of collaborative working workshops and writing
 retreats.

 Conference attendance funds and research pump-priming
 The Social Science subject group has invested funding to support staff to present at
 conferences, give visiting talks and similar activities in the region of £5,000 per annum. In
 addition, the University’s Research Innovation, and Enterprise Office administers an annual
 ‘Research Excellence Grant’ competition, from which colleagues can apply for up to £7,000 per
 year in addition to their subject group level allocation. These funds enabled staff to deliver
 papers at international conferences, undertake pilot and small-scale studies, and to engage in
 research-based continuing professional development (Strategic Aim 6).

 Research incentive funds held by the School are also used to finance conferences, visiting
 speakers, research ‘away days’, continuing professional development, and to buy research
 equipment (Strategic Aims 4 & 6). For example, in 2016/17, Maclean was awarded £6,500
 through the ENU Internal Funding Competition (for the project ‘Dental Care And Dental Profit:
 Understanding Governance, Marketisation, And Commercial Pressures In Public Provision’),
 resulting in further funding awarded in 2017/18 via Researcher Development Funding
 (£1,347.05) to organise a “Working in Healthcare” research seminar. Funding for Aston’s (2016)
 stop and search research facilitated attendance at Police Scotland’s REORG (Research,
 Evaluation and Operational Revise Group) meetings, where evidence was shared and shaped
 policy and practice. It also led to her participation as a founding member of a European network
 on stop and search, where she developed a proposal with colleagues which was successfully
 funded as a COST Action on Police Stops (2018-2022). This activity led to her submitted impact
 case study.

 Supporting Impact

 The Unit relies on School-level support to facilitate meaningful and mutually beneficial
 exchanges between academia and business, public and third sector bodies. In 2018, 60% of
 Aston’s time was bought out by SIPR, funded by Police Scotland, and fourteen member
 Universities across Scotland. SIPR supports independent, multi-disciplinary policing research to
 enable evidence-informed policy and practice. This work is ongoing. Wooff has developed a
 training programme for students wishing to become Special Constables. This has involved
 working closely with Police Scotland to recruit and train students within ENU. Wooff is depute
 lead for the Scottish Institute for Policing Research Education and Leadership network.

 Morrison’s secondment to the Scottish Prison Service between 2016 and 2018 has resulted in a
 range of opportunities and benefits for the University, including peer-reviewed articles, building
 relationships for the Veterans in Custody research project, collaborative work in developing grant
 application with partners from external HEIs, and a range of partnership development activities
 with the SPS and Community Justice Scotland.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Winterton researches with QinetiQ Ltd, a global defence commercial research organisation, on
 both Ministry of Defence (MoD) research and research funded by charities (for example, Forces
 in Mind Trust). In 2018 and 2019, the Migration and Mobilities Research Network (convened by
 Sharapov) invited a range of charities and practitioners working with migrant communities in
 Scotland to attend its annual event as participants and active contributors. In 2019, we
 appointed Nick Bland, employed by the Scottish Government, as a visiting professor. In 2015-
 2018, Wooff and Aston mentored police officers via Practitioner Fellows based at Police
 Scotland, through SIPR.

 Research Students
 We are committed to expanding the size and enhancing the experience of our research student
 community (Strategic Aim 5). The cohort is growing, with 5 PhD students currently studying in
 the Unit (as of July 2020). Over the reporting period we have developed a number of staff in their
 capacity as postgraduate supervisors, which has facilitated an increase in the number of PGR
 students. In the reporting period, the Unit achieved 1 completion (Aston). While modest,
 considering 7 out of the submitted 10 staff were recruited during the reporting period, the
 majority of whom this were undertaking their first full-time and permanent position, this is a
 positive start.

 Postgraduate research structure
 The institutional structure of PhD programmes is described in REF5A. SAS has a dedicated
 senior academic staff member designated as Research Degrees Lead (RDL) whom operates in
 close cooperation with the School’s Head of Research. The school RDL is supported by
 a school-based Research Degrees Committee (SRDC), tasked with assessing all
 interim progress reports, and triaging all other major decisions prior to the university level
 scrutiny by the University Research Degrees Committee (URDC). This ensures our
 PGR students’ voices are represented at the school decision-making level in relation to practical
 arrangements (office requirements, equipment needs), and the use of the dedicated PGR
 budget. It also ensures any student identified as being at risk of failing to meet expected
 progress targets is provided support and guidance.

 Supervision arrangements
 All supervisory teams are appropriately trained. We provide compulsory training for supervisors
 and ensure they are familiar with relevant University guidelines and the University Research
 Degrees Framework. These are guided by Chapter B11 ‘Research Degrees’ of the UK Quality
 Code for Higher Education. Each PGR student is assigned a Director of Studies and a minimum
 of one other supervisor. Further information on the composition of supervisory teams is given in
 REF5A. Each student is also assigned an independent panel chair (IPC), who is charged with a
 structural oversight of the PhD process.

 Recruitment
 We recruit our postgraduate research students via online platforms with international
 reach (e.g. FindAPhD.com), and in this reporting period we have moved towards a structured,
 twice-yearly intake, in order to expedite delivery of a new induction process, and to create a
 cohort-identity in our PGR students from across the institution. All PhD candidates are
 interviewed as part of the recruitment process. The PGR interview panels consist of the
 proposed director of studies, SDRL, and one or more academic staff member. One of our PhD
 students (Ralph) was funded through the University 50th anniversary scholarships in 2015.

 Research student skills development
 Whilst discipline specific training is the core of the research student journey, we also provide
 training in additional academic skillsets. In addition to our use of Vitae career development
 guidance, we have developed a short course on ‘Teaching in HE’ for students who may wish
 to gain experience of teaching. Students also have the option of studying
 towards Associate Fellowship of Advance HE. We have developed a system so that all students


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 who do take up such opportunities (teaching, demonstrating or research additional to their
 project) are recompensed for their work at the appropriate pay grade.

 All PGR students have equal access to the Research Postgraduate Fund in our schools, which
 covers research related expenses. We provide all PGR students with a desk and computer in a
 shared office, and the opportunity to attend an international conference during their study
 period, all paid for by school funds. Research students are also given a devolved budget to
 manage the PGR student society, and have used this for training events, writing workshops at
 external locations, and for hosting visiting speakers as part of a seminar series.

 All of our students have access to training and development opportunities offered by the Scottish
 Graduate School of Social Science, the UK's largest facilitator of funding, training and support
 for doctoral students in social science, of which Sharapov is Associate Director. Additionally,
 since 2018, all research students associated with the Unit are able to join the Postgraduate
 Certificate in Business and Management Research Methods offered by the Business School.

 In addition, in 2018 Aston established a new ‘Scottish Justice Fellows’ scheme (SG funded,
 supported by SCCJR & SIPR), which supports ECRs to make PhD findings accessible to
 practitioners and policy makers, and provides academic and government mentors. One of first
 Fellows (Horgan) is now Lecturer in Criminology at ENU.

 Equality and Diversity

 Submitted staff within the unit (9.75 FTE, 10 persons) identify with regards to gender: as 40%
 female, 60% male; ethnicity - 80% White, 10% Other/mixed, 10% unknown; disability - 90% no
 known disability, 10% disability declared; sexual orientation - 20% gay, 70% heterosexual, 10%
 unknown. The age profile is 30% 25-34; 50% 35-44; 20% 45-54; and 10% 55-64.

 100% of submitted staff are on permanent contracts. 9 staff are on full-time contracts, and one
 member of staff is on a part-time contract (0.75 FTE).

 Engagement with the issues of equality, diversity and non-discrimination is central to the social
 research carried out at ENU, and can be seen across all research themes. Institutionally, ENU is
 committed to the development of positive policies to promote equal opportunities for our
 research staff. Social Sciences subject group actively promotes equality of opportunity as an
 integral part of its goal to recruit and retain the best social scientists.

 The University overall has a comprehensive suite of family friendly and flexible working
 arrangements, as well as policies and practices to provide support to staff in the workplace.
 These include flexitime, shared parental leave, paternity leave, and adoption leave. Several Unit
 members participated in the Aurora Leadership Programme. A range of initiatives and activities
 are available at the University level, such as inclusive lunchtime gatherings, LGBT and Careers
 Networks. The University overall has moved away from Zero hours contracts. Research
 assistants are typically employed on fixed term contracts limited by project funding - these may
 be full-time or fractional.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Since 2014, the Unit has received £630,902 in external income. This includes; 5% from the UK
 Industry, commerce and public corporations, 22% from EU Government bodies, 4% from the
 UK-based other sources, 65% from the UK central government bodies/local authorities and 4%
 from UK-based charities.




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Winterton was awarded three Ministry of Defence grants over the reporting period (total
 £407,257) for a study of ethnicity in military cadets, a study of military family life, and a study of
 diversity in the entire MoD workforce. In addition, Winterton secured a range of smaller grants
 serving as a senior Co-I, including; a Carnegie early career grant (Haddow, Morrison &
 Winterton), a BA Researcher development grant (Skelton & Winterton), a Carnegie and
 Santander Internships (Watson, Power and Winterton as Supervisor), and an Erasmus study
 abroad grant (Martinkkenin, Winterton as supervisor).

 Aston was successful in securing a range of prestigious EU grants (total £140,300). In 2015,
 she was awarded €154,500 as PI for ENU, and co-lead for a multi-partner consortium project, to
 explore cooperation between law enforcement agencies and citizens. In 2018, she was part of
 the awarded COST Action on Police Stops (led by the Vrije Universiteit Brussel), a network of
 over 60 members representing 29 COST countries. In 2014, Aston et al. were successful in
 securing funding from the Scottish Institute for Policing Research (SIPR) and Police Scotland to
 evaluate a stop and search pilot project (£34,254), and to undertake a scoping exercise for a
 safer communities’ evidence matrix in Scotland (£4,938). In 2017, Aston et al. secured £7,224
 from SIPR to undertake a review of evidence in relation to ‘Public Confidence & Police Visibility’,
 and Aston and Wooff (et al.) secured additional £7,497 from SIPR to explore the issues of risk
 and vulnerability in relation to law enforcement and public health.

 A range of other external funding awards have been secured by Unit members. Maglione and
 Buchan were awarded £6,684, and Haddow, Morrison and Winterton £9,359 from Carnegie
 Research Incentive Grants in 2018. Wooff secured £20,000 SIPR funding to examine the
 Special Constabulary in Scotland, alongside £8,000 to study rural policing in Scotland. In 2016,
 Wooff also secured £5,000 to examine police custody in Scotland. The Unit has also benefitted
 from a range of Erasmus+ awards allocated for academic staff mobility. These grants were
 secured by Sharapov, including €95,000 secured between 2017 and 2020 to facilitate
 international co-operation between members of the Unit and academics at overseas institutions
 (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Ukraine).

 In support of Strategic Aims 4, 6 & 7, the School and the University organise several annual
 workshops to support development of research grant proposals, in addition to providing
 individualized support for all applicants.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 All researchers in this unit are now co-located at one campus (Sighthill), which has benefited
 from considerable investment in upgrading office and shared space, including kitchens and
 common rooms, all of which increase ad hoc collegial interaction. Our PhD students have a
 range of dedicated study spaces with networked computers, workspaces for laptops, lockers, a
 kitchen and a social area.


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers have easy access to a world class university library with a range of electronic
 resources and research support facilities. SIPR, which has been based at ENU since 2018, has
 its own dedicated office space, including dedicated meeting facilities. In addition, the Unit has
 access to the lab space provided by the Psychology Subject Group (UoA 3).

 In order to facilitate research work and engagement with external stakeholders within the
 COVID-19 context, the Unit has utilised advanced teleconferencing facilities to disseminate
 research outputs, reaching wider audiences, recording events and making them available to
 both internal and external audiences.

 Income Generation Strategy

 We make initial investments in developing research areas on a School-funded, competitive
 basis. This permits small-scale pump-priming activity to be conducted to underpin larger external
 bids, and forms part of our ECR mentoring scheme in terms of development of funding
 application preparation skills.

 We further foster research through indirect costs generated by FEC bearing awards, which are
 paid directly to the School to specifically develop research. For example, this funding is used for
 the creation of PhD studentships, and travel and support monies for conferences. Income
 generation is also explicitly built into the university promotion criteria and annual development
 reviews.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 15 out of 24 REF outputs in this submission are collaborative with researchers from other
 institutions. Through collaboration, our research has informed a number of changes in
 organisational practices for the benefit of marginalised communities. For example, Aston’s
 evaluation of a stop and search scheme piloted by the Fife Division of Police Scotland (with
 colleagues from the University of Dundee) resulted in recommendations being adopted by Police
 Scotland at the national level. It also informed the development of a pan-European network on
 Police Stops, successfully funded through a COST Action. Collaborative working relationships
 through SIPR, locally with the University of Dundee as well as across Europe, resulted in a
 collaborative comparative project to identify, disseminate and strengthen best practices for
 cooperation between police and local communities (Unity, Horizon 2020, Grant Agreement
 653729).

 Winterton’s long-standing research collaboration with the UK MoD has identified challenges
 faced by military veterans and their families, and explored the issues of diversity in the entire
 MoD workforce. It has resulted in a range of practical measures adopted by the MoD to improve
 the representation of minority groups across Defence, and has generated a range of
 methodological innovations foe use with large scale military organisations. A rather unique (for a
 University) symbol of relationship success is the award of the Military Covenant standard from
 the MoD. We liaise extensively with Scottish Prison Service, the Scottish Government's Cross-
 party Working Group on Veterans, and sit on local and national military education committees.

 The gravitas of ENU’s social researchers is demonstrated by the range of interdisciplinary
 research networks and projects in which we play a leading or central role. These include; the
 Scottish Institute for Policing Research (Aston, Wooff), Restorative Justice Dialogues
 (Maglione), the Scottish Network of Restorative Justice Researchers (Maglione, Buchan), the
 Strathclyde Centre for Law, Crime and Justice (Maglione), EU funded ‘COST’ action network on
 Police Stops (Aston), the Home Office Police Custody Standards Board (Wooff), Scottish
 Centre for Crime and Justice Research (Morrison, Aston), the University Prisons Network
 (Morrison), and the Howard League Scotland (Morrison, Aston, Buchan). Sharapov’s has


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 undertaken collaborative work with international networks of anti-trafficking and human rights
 activists. This includes; Civil Society Platform against Trafficking in Human Beings (Brussels),
 Global Alliance against Traffic in Women (Bangkok), and Regional Implementation Initiative on
 Preventing & Combating Human Trafficking (Vienna). These enabled efficient dissemination of
 relevant research to both anti-trafficking practitioners and scholars in the ‘Global South’, where
 effective anti-trafficking strategies are most needed.



 Relationships with Key Research Users

 ENU’s membership of SIPR has facilitated the development of long-term connections with
 ‘research users’, policy makers and practitioners, nationally and internationally. This has enabled
 externally-funded applied research on policing, and has led to impactful outcomes (e.g. Stop and
 Search impact case study). As a member of Police Scotland’s National Stop Search Unit’s
 Research Evaluation and Operational Review Group (2015-2018), Aston was involved in
 sharing research evidence, identifying knowledge gaps with research users, and designing new
 research projects which were then funded by SIPR (Aston et al. 2017). Engagement with SIPR
 has led to invitations and esteem, and has facilitated capacity building for researchers, including
 ECRs and postgraduates, through an annual SIPR Postgraduate Symposium. Aston herself
 benefitted from this ENU investment in SIPR as an ECR and was appointed as Director of SIPR
 in 2018. She has regular meetings with senior members of Police Scotland, Scottish Police
 Authority, Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary, and the Scottish Government. She is also
 an invited member of the Governance Board of the Scottish Violence Reduction Unit, the
 Scottish Police Authority and Police Scotland joint Research Forum, NHS Health Scotland 's
 'Public Health Approach to Justice' Monitoring and Evaluation Advisory Group for 'Rights
 Respect & Recovery', and Police Scotland Drug Strategy Board.

 Morrison’s work with SPS, during and after her secondment, has resulted in reforms of prison
 officer training and development. This has occurred via workshops, shared working papers, and
 presentations to practitioners. In turn, these relationships have facilitated other research
 projects, for example the Carnegie funded Veterans in Custody project (co/PI) and the provision
 of the social research course at SPS as part of the participatory research agenda (PI).

 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Buchan has recently advised the Cabinet Office on the organisation of probation systems in
 Scotland, as part of a project with the UK Ministry of Justice on the future organisation of
 probation in England and Wales. This invitation was the result of research by Buchan and
 Morrison.

 Wooff sits on the Home Office Custody Improvement Group where he has successfully
 developed the updated Custody Design Guide, which for the first time puts detainee dignity at its
 heart. Wooff has also given evidence to the Scottish Parliament’s cross-party group on rural
 affairs, where his research was presented to MSPs and public stakeholders. Aston has been
 involved in impact generating activity at an international level. She has been a part of COST
 Action as WG3 co-lead, comparing governance, raising public awareness and pushing for
 improvements, and has played a key role in the SIPR in Scotland and beyond. Aston organised
 and presented at a knowledge exchange event considering approaches to policing of drugs,
 provided feedback to Police Scotland as they developed their new strategy, and was invited onto
 their new Drug Strategy Board. As Chair of Police Scotland’s Cyber Kiosks External Reference
 Group, Aston’s report resulted in the Justice Committee deciding to keep digital triage under
 review.

 Morrison’s work on penal change and reform has resulted in giving evidence to the Justice
 Committee at the Scottish Parliament, and providing expertise as part of the Board of Howard
 League Scotland. Maglione’s work on restorative justice has advised the Victim & Witnesses

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Team, Criminal Justice Division, Scottish Government, on the development of restorative justice
 services available across Scotland by 2023, as established by the Restorative Justice Action
 Plan (2019).

 Focus on Public and Community Engagement

 Aston was invited to present at Soroptomists Dunfermline for International Women’s Day 2019
 to 100 members of the public, and was invited to be on a panel at the Green Party Conference in
 2017. She was an invited panellist on 'Seizing the Future: Police Scotland's powers to seize and
 examine electronic devices' at the Open Rights Group Scotland Conference on Digital Rights,
 October, 2019, with an audience including about 50 members of the public. She was also invited
 by the Chair of the Independent Advisory Group on Temporary COVID Police Powers in
 Scotland, to Chair two public facing webinars discussing the findings of the IAG in 2020,
 facilitating Q&A and engaging key stakeholders internationally. Aston has written articles in The
 Conversation, a public facing publication, on stop and search and knife crime (May 2019 3,000+
 reads in month published), and Naloxone (September 2018 2,000 reads in month published),
 large numbers in UK, US, Australia and Europe. She was invited to a Visible Policing podcast
 interview in 2019 (series has 175 downloads), and has written blogs, including a blog on COVID-
 19 for the British Society of Criminology and the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice
 Research.

 Morrison was part of a panel regarding ‘the cultural representations of punishment in Scotland’
 at the National Libraries of Scotland to tie in with the promotion of their archives (attended by
 approximately 50 members). She has also written three blogs for the Scottish Justice Matters
 website, Howard League Scotland website, and the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice
 Research website, and has written an article about electronic tagging for The Conversation, a
 public facing publication. Buchan and Maglione also spoke at the restorative justice event,
 drawing on emerging findings from their Carnegie funded research project. Maglione was
 invited to speak at the Holyrood Policy conference ‘Restorative Justice: Supporting Victims and
 Reducing Reoffending’ in 2018 in Edinburgh, presenting on ‘Restorative justice: learning from
 other jurisdictions’. This was a public-facing conference which also included speakers from the
 third sector and the Government.

 The group has their own Twitter account (@SocScience_Crim) which promotes their work, with
 national and international followers from academic networks. Many of the team are active users
 of social media to engage with the wider public. For example, a tweet by Buchan was read out
 during a Scottish Parliamentary debate on a proposed whole life prison sentence for Scotland.
 Buchan also used Twitter to write a general-audience discussion of the ‘Transforming
 Rehabilitation’ policy in England and Wales which was viewed by over 5,000 users. The Cabinet
 Secretary for Justice has retweeted two of Morrison’s tweets addressing criminal justice reform.

 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Wooff sits on the British Society of Criminology’s Policing network steering group. Aston
 contributes to the European Society of Criminology Policing Working Group, and is a key
 member of the Core Group (leadership team) of the COST Action on Police Stops. This is a
 capacity building network which seeks to build the sustainability of the discipline through
 supporting postgraduate students and early career researchers. It also seeks to build research
 capacity in the field, particularly in Inclusivity Target countries.

 Buchan and Morrison are members of the inter-institutional, interdisciplinary ECR network
 PEEP (Perspectives from the Edges of Exclusion and Punishment), a collaboration between
 colleagues at Edinburgh, Strathclyde, Stirling and elsewhere. This led to them speaking at
 various events through 2018 and 2019. Morrison is a member of the European Society of
 Criminology prisons research network, and presented work in progress to other network
 members in 2020. Sharapov is making a key contribution to the development and promotion of
 advanced PG training in social sciences in his Associate Director role at the Scottish Graduate

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School of Social Science (SGSSS, ESRC DTP).

 Indicators of Wider Influence

 We are actively involved in the editorial work of a diverse body of academic journals as editors,
 co-editors or reviewers. Sharapov is an editorial board member of the Anti-Trafficking Review.
 Wooff is an editorial board member of the ‘Palgrave’s Critical Policing Studies’, Rural Policing
 series. Aston was invited to develop and act as lead editor for 'Palgrave's Critical Policing
 Studies’ series.

 Participation on grant committees
 Sharapov is a panel member on the SGSSS open competition PhD and Post-Doctoral ESRC
 funding committees. Aston serves as a panel chair of Scottish Institute for Policing Research
 Grant Award committee.

 Fellowships
 Wooff and Sharapov are Fellows of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
 Manufactures and Commerce (FRSA).

 Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees
 Aston, as Director of SIPR, is a member of SIPR’s Board of Governance, Head of SIPR’s
 Leadership Team, and Chair of SIPR’s Executive Committee. She is an invited member of the
 Board of Governance for N8 Policing and Research Partnership (led by Leeds University), and
 the Programme Committee for the International Law Enforcement and Public Health
 Conference. Maglione is a member of the European Forum for Restorative Justice Research
 Committee.

 Refereeing academic publications or research proposals
 Sharapov is a reviewer for Anti-Trafficking Review, Journal of Human Trafficking, SN Social
 Sciences, Social Forces, and Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers. Buchan is a
 reviewer for European Journal of Probation. Wooff reviews for Policing and Society,
 International Journal of Police Strategies and Managements, European Journal of Criminology,
 Policing: A Journal of Policy and Practice, and Criminology and Criminal Justice. Guma is a
 reviewer for Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies, Identities: Global Studies in Power and
 Culture, Geoforum; Social Inclusion, Sociological Research Online, and Central and East
 European Migration Review.

 Aston acts as a reviewer for Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing, International
 Journal of Police Science and Management, Evidence and Policy, Criminology and Criminal
 Justice, and International Journal of Drug Policy. Maglione reviews journal articles for
 Contemporary Justice Review, Journal of Youth Studies, International Review of Victimology,
 Critical Criminology, and International Journal of Restorative Justice, as well as academic books
 and textbooks for Oxford University Press, SAGE, Routledge and Pearson. Morrison reviews
 for Punishment and Society, European Journal of Criminology, Howard Journal and Criminology
 and Criminal Justice. Members of the Unit have acted as peer reviewers, assessors, and
 rapporteurs for a wide range of research funders in the UK and overseas. This includes; the
 ESRC (Sharapov, Winterton, Aston, Maglione), AHRC (Maglione, Sharapov), British
 Academy (Sharapov), European Commission (Sharapov), the Austrian Academy of Sciences
 (Sharapov), Research Foundation Flanders (Maglione), Irish Research Council (Wooff), and
 EC COST (Aston).

 Publishing Collaborations and Academic Exchange
 ENU social researchers are highly engaged with colleagues outside the University, with 15
 collaborative outputs (out of 24) submitted under REF2. The Unit has taken advantage of
 collaborative partnership building opportunities provided by Erasmus+ funding (Sharapov,
 Winterton), with partner institutions in Armenia, Ukraine and Azerbaijan. Wooff was part of the
 organising committee for the Scottish Institute for Policing Research student exchange

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme to George Mason University. This bi-annual summer school is a great opportunity for
 staff and student knowledge exchange.

 Aston has developed close links with European partners through the EC funded H2020 Unity
 project and the COST Action on Police Stops, and is currently writing collaboratively with them.
 Through her research and SIPR role she has developed close working relationships with other
 institutes internationally, including the Centre for Policing and Security in Belgium, George
 Mason University Washington, and the Global Law Enforcement and Policing Association.
 Aston signed a memorandum of understanding on behalf of SIPR with the Police University
 College of Finland (POLAMK), and hosted a visiting research fellow at ENU in 2019. Morrison
 has developed close links with three American universities; University West of Florida, Florida
 Atlantic University, and Kansa Washburn University through the criminology summer school
 partnership.

 Invited keynotes, lectures and/or performances, or conference chair roles
 Members of the Unit have been invited to deliver a range of keynotes and lectures, both
 nationally and internationally, throughout the period. For example, Aston was invited to deliver a
 plenary on legitimacy and technology at the Flemish Centre for Policing and Security as a part of
 the 30th Anniversary Conference on Street Policing in Smart Cities in Ghent in September 2019,
 and a plenary on policing and legitimacy at Catalan Institute of Security's 30th year anniversary
 in September 2019. She was also invited to be on the Programme Committee for International
 Law Enforcement and Public Health Conference 2019, organised many SIPR conferences, and
 has chaired at various international conferences including LEPH, the European Society of
 Criminology Conference, and SIPR Conferences.

 In 2017, Winterton was an invited speaker and panel member for a symposium on ‘Enduring
 inequalities in Higher Education’ at the University of Leeds. In 2018, Wooff was invited to deliver
 a plenary speech at the Biennial International Conference in Criminal Justice and Security in
 Central and Eastern Europe. In 2019, Maglione was invited by the Strathclyde Centre for Law,
 Crime & Justice, Strathclyde Law School, to chair a public seminar on ‘Victims’ Experiences of
 Restorative Justice’.

 Morrison was invited to talk at the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research annual
 conference at the University of Stirling in 2019. Sharapov is a regular invited speaker at the
 international events focussing on trafficking in human beings, including yearly roundtables
 organised by the Regional Implementation Initiative on Preventing & Combating Human
 Trafficking (Austria). In 2019 Sharapov was an invited speaker at the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh and Taiwan Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) Joint Workshop in Taiwan.




                                                                                            Page 15
