Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 28, History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context and structure

As a small (17 staff members on Research and Teaching contracts, 15.5 FTE), diverse and
relatively new (2004) department, we have carved out a distinctive place in the academic study of
history, undertaking research that is innovative, critical, global and relevant. We generate world-
leading and impactful research, extend critical enquiry into new domains of history. We do this by
challenging intellectual orthodoxies and through our introduction of pioneering programmes, such
as the UK’s first MAs in Queer History and in Black British History. We pursue an idea of
history and an ethos of enquiry that is attentive to diverse cultural conditions and experiences,
knowledge of which can expand the public understanding of history. A commitment to equality and
diversity in staffing is an integral component of our approach. We bring this idea and ethos to our
collaborations both within and outside the discipline of history, in the UK and around the globe.

In terms of subject content, our research is grouped around four research ‘clusters’, although most
of our staff’s research cuts across those:

History of sexuality, emotions and medicine
Taking a decolonised, inclusive approach, this cluster includes: Bengry, on the relationship
between homosexuality and capitalism in modern Britain, showing how sexual subcultures
fashioned public and private identities using diverse goods and services; Gammerl’s social
history of homosexuality in Germany examining the interplay between migratory and sexual
politics, and his work on emotions; Plamper’s contribution to the ‘emotional turn’ in his
History of Emotions, and his Das neue Wir which shows that in Germany, outmigration and
immigration have always existed and that ethnobiological notions of German homogeneity are a
phantasma.

Our global approach here features De Nicola’s Women in Mongol Iran, which argues that the
status of Mongol women was transformed by a complex process of transculturation; Yoeli-Tlalim’s
research on Tibetan and Hebrew medical history, putting forward new understandings on
exchanges of knowledge along the Silk Roads. Wald’s work on imperial, military and medical
history in India throws new light on the emergence of social and imperial mindsets, fuelled by fear
of the lower orders, sexual deviation, disease and mutiny; and Lee’s work on death and funeral
industries in South Africa, examining how migration, globalisation and profound political
transformation have altered the everyday lives and embodied experiences of urban South Africans.
Fryar’s research on medical crises in post-emancipation Jamaica, mentioned in more detail
below, is also part of this cluster.

Military history, with a focus on social and cultural approaches; in particular history of the First
World War
Our non-traditional military history research includes: Watson’s award-winning (including the
Wolfson Prize) book, Ring of Steel which impacted how scholars and public understand WWI in
Europe, offering new insights into vast popular mobilisations, the radicalisation of violence, and

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the cataclysmic collapse of Central Europe's societies and states; Grayson’s research on Ireland’s
First World War, developed through a ‘military history from the street’ approach that shows that
military service was not remotely so sectarian as believed in popular narratives and raises
questions about how accurately the war is ‘remembered’; Plamper’s work on the Russian
revolution as a sensory experience shows how sensory experience and memory are deeply
intertwined, restoring a key dimension in the lived experience of historical actors; Djokić’s current
British Academy and Leverhulme funded projects tracing Yugoslavia’s break-up through the
experiences of the last Yugoslav army conscripts is working towards a stage play; and Wald’s
analysis of the military-fiscal state in British India and the 'thin white line' of colonial rule,
suggests how military anxieties and fears profoundly shaped colonial rule with a lasting impact on
Indian society.

Black British history and British/UK social and cultural history
This cluster, much of which places UK history in a global context, includes: Fryar, whose work on
Black British history embeds modern British history within the fields of comparative slavery as
well as emancipation studies and disaster studies, using crisis micro-histories to reframe narratives
of imperial liberalism in the British Empire in light of the sustained neglect of Black British subjects
in the Caribbean; Elias interrogates religion’s place in race equality campaigns, anti-racism
activism, and Black liberation movements in 1960s Britain, situating these networks in
transnational perspective, by exploring their relationship with the American civil rights movement
and South African anti-apartheid movement; Hessayon writes on a wide range of early modern
topics to challenge existing interpretations and pioneer new areas of study – mainly at the
intersection of intellectual, religious, political and social history; Price on Victorian England and
the local cultural and social history of South-East London focuses on civilian heroism,
challenging and revising understandings of modern constructions of heroism that privileged
imperial and military examples and structures; and Richmond’s study of poverty, dress and
identity in nineteenth-century England, revealing the economic, emotional and perceived
regulatory value of clothing. Wald on the social history of alcohol, Bengry on queer Britain, and
Grayson on Northern Ireland, all mentioned above, are also part of this cluster.

History of the Balkans, East-Central Europe and Russia
This cluster comprises: Djokić, whose methodologically innovative work combines auto-
ethnography, collective biography, cultural and international history to reposition Yugoslavia’s
place in broader European and global history; Stouraiti on Venice and the Ottoman Empire,
rethinking the history of early modern Venice from an imperial perspective, shedding light on the
impact of empire on Venetian metropolitan culture to question traditional perceptions of Venice as
the most peaceful republic of merchants. Gammerl on understanding citizenship in Habsburg
Bosnia in comparative, trans-imperial contexts; Plamper on the Russian Revolution and Watson
on Austro-Hungarian and Polish history, mentioned above, are also part of this cluster.

We collaborate with several other departments, principally through Goldsmiths’ interdisciplinary
research centres, three of which the Department currently hosts and leads: the Centre for Queer
History, the Centre for the Study of the Balkans, and the Centre of the Body (see section 4).

During this cycle we launched two innovative MAs: the UK’s first MA in Queer History (in 2017)
and the Department’s first MA in Black British History (in 2020). The new programmes and
related appointments aimed to build and expand novel angles of research to strengthen our
sustainability and vitality. The new programmes intensify our research collaboration with other

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Goldsmiths’ departments, such as Sociology and Media, Communications and Cultural Studies;
attract high calibre international graduate and post-graduate students; and strengthen our research
profile in the areas of equality and diversity.

1.2 Research and Impact strategy

Our research strategy and planning are led by the Research and Postgraduate Committee,
revisited on a bi-annual basis and supported by the College Research Office. Our Head of
Department (HoD) ensures individual staff goals are agreed and met through regular reviews,
paying particular attention to the development of early career staff. Our Research Strategy aims
principally to ensure that all staff on research and teaching contracts are active in research at
international level in terms of REF criteria for excellence.

The Department has fulfilled its strategic aims outlined in its REF2014 submission, devised to put
in place mechanisms for sustainability. These strategic aims included: working on an
interdisciplinary basis; maximising research time available to staff through offering one-term
teaching modules (freeing up other terms for research), reducing the administrative load and
offering generous research leave; providing financial support for research expenses and
conference attendance (at least £1,000 per member of staff per year, including for members of
staff on teaching-only contracts); playing an active part in the CHASE consortium to develop
our PGR community; and continuing to hold central roles in discipline development through journal
editorships and seminar convening. We have been emphasizing research-led teaching, through
the development of new undergraduate and postgraduate modules based on recent and/or current
research. We also encourage teaching-led research, where our teaching may contribute to an
ongoing project, particularly in either early or in writing-up stages.

The Department’s Research Committee has representatives from across academic ranks and is
gender-balanced. Our research strategy currently revolves around the following key values:

Creating change, locally and globally
We are socially aware and engaged with communities, carrying out public engagement work
around the world to ensure that our research has a positive impact and helps to change lives. Fryar
was one of ten UK-based early career researchers named a BBC Radio 3 / AHRC New
Generation Thinker for 2020, where she has written a short radio piece about cholera in the
Caribbean and its connections to the Black Lives Matters movement and COVID-19. Both Fryar
and Elias are actively involved in initiatives that are working to incorporate Black British history into
the national curriculum at primary and secondary level, while also challenging the curriculum’s
many exclusions. Elias has co-led the national #TeachRaceMigrationEmpire campaign to
change the history curriculum in partnership with the Runnymede Trust and the Institute of
Historical Research. Fryar has worked with BBC Bitesize to review their KS3/GCSE online
learning resources about the British Empire and transatlantic slavery and recorded a short
interview for BBC News/BBC Young Reporter about structural racism. We have worked closely
with our local community on historical subjects such as the 1977 Battle of Lewisham and
beyond through, for example, the Windrush: Arrival 1948 project (Price). We have also been
actively involved in work with schools in other ways, for example through Hemel at War (since
2008) and Streatham at War (since 2015), and a project on Francophones in London during the
First World War (Grayson). We have developed sustained relationships with NGOs, faith-
based organisations and other members of civil society involved in the management of death

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in South Africa. Our work has aided in the professional development of African staff, and shaped
training and facilitation on responses to death, grief and loss (Lee). In Northern Ireland, our work
on ‘Military History from the Street’ has challenged received popular and sectarian narratives of the
First World War as demonstrated in Grayson’s Impact Case Study. Our work has also exerted
significant impact on popular understandings of the First World War, both in the UK and
internationally, as exemplified in Watson’s Impact Case Study.

We participate in mentoring junior scholars internationally, such as Lee (via a British Academy
award ‘Promoting Zambian and Southern African Research Output: Publishing, Mentoring and
Grant Writing Workshop', co-Applicant with Matthew Graham, Dundee, £19,800).

Radical and innovative thinking, promoting access and diversity
We cultivate a unique and creative approach, challenging norms and embracing new ideas with
energy and reflection by establishing research-led MAs in previously marginalised areas of
History through our Centre for Queer History (Bengry and Gammerl) and our MA in Black
British History (Fryar and Elias). These have led to recruitment of MA students from groups with
protected characteristics, and is leading to career development of PhD supervisors from under-
represented groups.

We recruit research students from a very diverse range of backgrounds, and the diversity of our
staff has increased significantly. Grayson and Wald, as editors of the British Journal for Military
History, have led the journal to have a majority of women in its Editorial Advisory Board
members, which is uncommon in this field.

Respecting the individual
We encourage individuality and nurture talent through generous research leave known as
‘Dedicated Research Time’ (DRT) and financial support for research expenses for all staff on
Teaching and Research contracts. We are working to increase our external research funding and
time is provided for grant applications through allowances which can be made in our workload
allocations and through DRT. The seminars we convene, both at Goldsmiths and beyond,
encourage freedom of thought and expression in an environment of openness and tolerance.

Promoting interdisciplinarity
In line with Goldsmiths’ reputation for cross-disciplinarity, the Department’s research strategy has
been to engage with other disciplines. Unusually among UK History departments of comparable size,
we host and lead three interdisciplinary research centres (see section 4).

Impact strategies and activities
Our research on the past informs meaningful engagement with the present, both in the UK and
internationally. Our work engages with the world in multiple ways: numerous media appearances;
public events we have organised and participated in; engaging with schools and museums locally
and globally; blogging and podcasting; and the high-profile social media presence of some of
our staff members (especially Bengry with 10,500 Twitter followers). A strategic, proactive,
approach to impact and public engagement is embedded in our research culture. Since 2015 the
Department has had a dedicated Public Engagement Officer (Price, then Plamper). The
significance of impact and PE is discussed regularly, at Departmental meetings and staff
appraisals (Periodic Development Reviews). Evidence of and potential for producing research with
impact and public engagement has been an important criterion when making faculty appointments.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Impact and PE activities are included in Goldsmiths’ promotions criteria. The Directors of Research
and Departmental Impact Lead gather data on impact generated by our staff and identify potential
future impact, to ensure that resources are allocated to develop it effectively.

Open Access
We take a broad, innovative and creative approach to open access, beyond formal requirements
from REF and funding bodies. Bengry and Gammerl founded an oral history archive, the Archive
for Queer Life Stories, in collaboration with the Bishopsgate Institute to preserve deposits from
diverse queer community members, along with materials created through our own research
projects, as well as interviews conducted by our Queer History MA students. NOTCHES, the
leading history of sexuality blog founded and co-edited by Bengry, has published more than 400
original blogs from a global range of scholars and activists, and attracted more than 1.3 million
viewers across 150+ countries. De Nicola assumed most of the responsibility in the creation and
development of a free public online database of Arabic, Persian and Turkish manuscripts
(based in St Andrews), then applied his experience to his current Austrian START Prize project
(based at the University of Vienna). Grayson and Wald co-edit the British Journal for Military
History, a pioneering Open Access, peer-reviewed journal that brings high quality scholarship in
military history to an audience within and beyond academia. The journal is hosted by the
Goldsmiths’ Library’s online journal platform.

1.3 Future Aims and Goals

The History Department began a process of renewal of its research strategy in January 2020. We
held an away-day to discuss the Department’s future direction and then devised a renewed
research strategy, focusing on our long-term vitality and sustainability. New measures we put in
place include developing our departmental research seminars; enhancing our PhD students’
experience through a new teaching pathway and student-led seminars; and a research
mentoring system for all members of staff. We began implementing these during the pandemic
months: we conducted departmental research seminars which included discussions of work in
progress and practical advice on book publishing options; inaugurated the student-led
postgraduate seminar; and held a festive research seminar at the end of term for all staff and
students. The Research Committee is also devising mechanisms to further enable and assist staff
members in their grant-writing efforts. Building on our unique expertise in global histories of
medicine (Lee, Wald and Yoeli-Tlalim) together with history of emotions (Plamper) we are
planning a new MA in the Global History of Medicine. We are also planning to harness our
Digital Humanities expertise (primarily De Nicola and his work on digital tools for manuscript
research and Price and his app development experience), to develop an MA in Digital
Humanities together with Goldsmiths Computing Department. The Centre for the Study of the
Balkans is developing digital tools through a CHASE Cohort Development Fund awarded for a
project entitled 'Searching digital: Methods, tools and standards of research in digital humanities'.


 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

During this REF period, our strategy focussed on sustaining and developing our research
strengths and building on the commitment to equality and diversity that underpins the vitality


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of our research culture. Since REF2014 History’s staff profile has changed considerably and
intentionally. At present, the Department employs 17 (15.5 FTE) permanent academic staff on
Teaching and Research contracts: four professors, two readers, five senior lecturers and six
lecturers (including a DAAD Lektor). Of the 17 researchers submitted to REF 2021 (one at 0.8
FTE, one at 0.4 FTE and one at 0.3FTE), six are new members of staff and one colleague who
was on a fractional, teaching and scholarship post in the Department was appointed to a teaching
and research senior lecturer post.

Vacancies arising from retirement or departure have allowed us to broaden and strengthen our
research profile. We made appointments in the areas of history of the Middle-East (De Nicola),
Queer History (Bengry and Gammerl), Black British History (Fryar and Elias) and History and
Journalism (Walsh). Recent appointments have also been made to maximise impact
opportunities, with knowledge exchange and impact activities constituting important criteria in
recruitment. We are careful to ensure that the workload involved in teaching new modules does not
affect the time new staff have for research and impact, by counting preparation time in workloads.

There is also a strong support for internal promotion of staff, with two promotions to chairs
during the current cycle (Djokić and Watson), two promotions to reader (Hessayon and Yoeli-
Tlalim), and one to senior lecturer (Wald). These promotions demonstrate our commitment to
supporting early and mid-career staff and our long-term, strategic planning where staff retention is
important. We are committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. The Department has internal systems supporting the development of early career
staff which complement College-wide probation and appraisal procedures, monitoring workloads to
ensure they have time for research. Each new member of staff is assigned a more senior mentor
to advise on research and publication plans, potential funding applications and
departmental/institutional research support; and to offer constructive feedback on research-led
teaching, ensuring a high-quality student experience.

The Head of Department ensures that specific staff research needs, including ECRs, as well as
associate lecturers on teaching and scholarship contracts, are addressed. All research-active staff,
regardless of contract type, are eligible for annual support from the Department’s budget (raised
during the current cycle to £1,000 each per year), to enable staff to present at international
conferences, and to conduct research activities. Our research leave rota sees Teaching and
Research staff eligible for a term’s paid leave after every six terms subject to identification
of clear research objectives. Staff are encouraged and supported to seek external funding, and
this does not impact on the internal rota (that is, they are still eligible for internally-funded leave).
Consequently, we have held prestigious UK and international research fellowships (see below).

2.2 Research Students

The Department has a small but vibrant and growing community of postgraduate research students
(PGRs). We provide financial support to enable excellent students to take up places: Goldsmiths is
part of the AHRC Consortium for Humanities and the Arts South-East England (CHASE), with the
Universities of Sussex (lead), East Anglia, Essex, Kent, The Open University and The Courtauld.
During this REF cycle our department secured five CHASE studentships.

We have a great diversity of thesis subject areas – one on queer history, one on Black British
history, one on African history, and one on the history of deportation in the UK which focuses

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on decolonisation with case studies involving Asian and African groups. This diversity has also
enabled the inclusion of more PhD supervisors from under-represented groups. We believe
that the introduction of new MAs in Black British History and Queer History will result in more PGR
students from groups with protected characteristics and are seeing initial signs of this.

In the last few years, we have introduced new features to enhance the career development of our
PhD students, most notably the teaching pathway and the student-led seminar series. Since
January 2014, 15 PGRs have successfully completed PhD theses. We currently have seven
PGRs, supervised by six members of staff. Three out of the seven PGRs are from groups with
protected characteristics (BME or LGBTQ+). Among the supervising staff, three have protected
characteristics (BME or LGBTQ+) and are of junior career stage.

History PGRs are members of the College Graduate School, which fosters integration into the
research culture at Goldsmiths. In addition to department inductions, the Graduate School
organises a week-long induction programme for all new PGRs at the College. The Graduate
School offers students a wide range of research training courses and organises an annual
Postgraduate Symposium which brings together PGRs from across the college and beyond in a
series of seminars, workshops, exhibitions and screenings. A Virtual Graduate School makes
resources and information available to students with limited physical access to the college.
Departmental financial support encourages PGR students’ participation in external conferences
and helps with the cost of language tuition or other research-related training (for example,
palaeography), as well as funding trips to archives. All PG students are eligible for free
membership of the Institute of Historical Research (IHR) and many attend its relevant seminar
series.

Applications from prospective PGRs are assessed by the departmental Research and
Postgraduate Committee, to ensure applicant suitability for doctoral research and
student/supervisor compatibility; all eligible applicants are interviewed. All PGRs have a primary
and support supervisor, with performance monitored through Annual Progress Reports, completed
by students and supervisors and scrutinised by the RPGC and the Graduate School. Since 2008
the Department has employed a part-time PG administrator, while a senior academic (Plamper,
Wald and Lee during the current cycle) is the PG convener, specifically charged with the task of
enhancing the student experience and offering pastoral support. Staff new to PGR supervision are
mentored by experienced colleagues, while the Graduate School offers training and support for all
supervisory staff.

A departmental Research Ethics approval process assesses research projects involving human
participants. Students are supported through this process by their supervisors as well as a
dedicated Research Ethics virtual learning environment containing guidance on, for example, oral
history research. The Research Ethics Committee scrutinises all applications and makes
recommendations based on the applicant’s assessment and mitigation of risks involved in human
research.

With oral history becoming a significant component of our MA work, we have put in place
specialised training in this method, with some leading figures in the field. In 2017-18 Bengry
hosted a masterclass with EMMY-recipient Molly Merryman from Kent State (Ohio, US),
providing attention to video interviews and working with marginalised communities. In 2018-19 the



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Department secured funding for our MA students to participate in a day-long workshop on queer
oral history at the London Metropolitan Archives.

A new teaching pathway for PGR students was introduced in 2019/20 to enhance career
development opportunities for our PGR students. All PGR students who are interested in gaining
teaching experience take a 30-credit module offered by the Graduate School with the Teaching
and Learning Innovation Centre, which covers pedagogy and professional development. Students
who have taken this module are then invited to apply for paid seminar teaching in the spring for the
following academic year, though placements are contingent on available departmental funding.

2.3 Equality and Diversity

We are a multi-racial, multi-lingual and multi-cultural department with a diverse gender and
sexual representation. Of the 17 research-active members of staff, seven have protected
characteristics. We work in 21 foreign languages (Arabic, Persian, Urdu, German, French, Turkish,
Latin, Greek, Tibetan, Spanish, Catalan, Hebrew, Italian, Russian, Polish, Serbo-Croat, Slovene,
Macedonian, Bulgarian, Czech and Slovak).

Our staff have been deeply involved in national fora working towards equality and diversity.
Examples include: Chairing the IHR Equality Working Group, committee member of Historical
Association Diversity Steering Group, member of Runnymede Trust Education Working Group, Head
of ‘Inclusive Histories’ initiatives at the Institute of Historical Research, Co-Chair of Royal Historical
Society Workshop on the impacts of Covid-19 on university admissions for BME students in History
and co-lead of #TeachRaceMigrationEmpire campaign at the Runnymede Trust (all Elias); Fryar has
been Lead Convenor of the IHR Black British History Seminar since its launch in January 2020 and
also participated in a series of talks and panels, including to the National Youth Orchestra, in June
and July 2020 after the global resurgence of the Black Lives Matter movement; talks, keynotes and
workshops on migration and racism around Plamper’s book Das neue Wir in refugee centres,
museums, schools, theatres, NGOs and academic institutions in Germany (31 events in 2019-20).

Promoting access and diversity, and supporting our students and staff
We have enabled a wide range of people to benefit from our learning opportunities by opening up
previously marginalised areas of History. We have secured fee waivers and bursaries for our Black
British History MA programme, including a part-time fee-waiver for school teachers. We are,
however, not complacent and recognise there is room for improvement. To that end, the
Department recently introduced new race, ethnicity and equality measures and further
enhanced our commitment to anti-racist education. We appointed a senior member of staff
(Plamper) to serve as the Department’s Equality and Diversity Officer (with significant allocated
time in their workload) to monitor, support and advise on how we have, and can improve upon, our
commitments. We now have both Postgraduate and Undergraduate BME Student
Representative positions, with an attached bursary; a departmental race and decolonisation
reading group; and mandatory anti-microaggression training session for all staff. We also
have a member of staff (Lee) who was co-chair of the staff network representing all BME academic
and professional staff. A recent measure we have put in place aimed at improving a gender
seniority imbalance, is to give specific dedicated research time for non-professorial staff following
parental leave, whilst taking into consideration special conditions which LGBT+ parents might
require.



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
When selecting REF outputs, our primary consideration was to select outputs based on our
assessment of research quality, informed by external reviews, in compliance with Goldsmiths’
Code of Practice. We are aware, however, that in so doing, senior, white male colleagues are
disproportionately represented in our current submission. We gave careful consideration to risks of
bias in the selection process, and made adjustments for that. This outcome reflects the historical
orientation of the Department and the recency of our investments in diversifying our staff
cohort. We expect to see a more inclusive publication profile over the next REF cycle.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The Department’s research culture is supported by multi-strand, competitive funding from research
councils, foundations and charitable trusts. Externally funded grants are an important part of our
research income, and despite our small size, we have a good record of external research income,
totalling £475,557 (including grants not reported in HESA, as well as grants not spent in this period
due to the impact of COVID-19) brought in through national and international grants and research
fellowships between 2013/2014 and 2020.

A number of prestigious international grants and fellowships were awarded to our staff
members to go to:
   • Harvard, (Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard University, Exploratory Seminars
      Funding, 2019-20, received but unable to hold due to COVID) £13,756 and Swedish
      Collegium for Advanced Studies (Jan-June 2016) £16,203 (Lee);
   • Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin (Senior Fellowship, 2014/15) £34,149; Imre Kertész
      Kolleg, Jena (Senior Fellowship, April-Sep. 2016) €28,200, and, Alfried Krupp
      Wissenschaftskolleg Greifswald (Senior Fellowship, 2018/19) €48,000 (all Plamper);
   • Humboldt University of Berlin (via Alexander von Humboldt Research Fellowship for
      experienced researchers (2015/16) €66,560 (Djokić);
   • University of Texas at Austin (Harry Ransom Research Fellowship, 2017/18) US$6,000
      (Walsh).

In 2020 Hessayon received the Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do estado de São Paulo
(FAPESP) £6,500 to join the São Paulo Academic Network at Escola de Filosofia, Letras e
Ciências Humanas, Guarulhos but was unable to travel due to COVID-19. Stouraiti received the
Gerda Henkel Research Fellowship (2016) €8,700.

Our national grants and fellowships include:
   • British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (2019/20), £112,600 (Djokić);
   • Leverhulme Research Fellowship, (2020-22), £54,555, and (2014) £18,763 ( Djokić and
      Stouraiti respectively);
   • Panacea Charitable Trust (2013), £225,000 (Hessayon);
   • AHRC (2014-16), £29,835 (Grayson);
   • Wellcome Trust funding (2016-17), £42,304 (Lee) and (2015-2020), £28,440 (Yoeli-
      Tlalim).

In 2019 De Nicola was awarded €1,077,000 from the prestigious START Prize fellowship of the
Austrian Research Fund (2020-2025) for the project Nomads’ Manuscripts Landscape:
investigating literary evidence for transculturation in Medieval Iran and Central Asia 13th – 15th
century. This funds a ground-breaking analysis of a vast amount of unexplored Islamic


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Manuscripts of medieval Iran and Central Asia. The project will create an Open Access database
of these codices that will be crucial for understanding key processes of nomadic-sedentary cultural
interactions which are a key "missing link" of global history.

We have also been awarded small research and conference grants, including from Past &
Present (Djokić), Fritz Thyssen foundation (De Nicola and Stouraiti), the Royal Historical
Society and the Society for the Social History of Medicine (Wald) and the British Institute of
Persian Studies (De Nicola), as well as from internal funding available from Goldsmiths (Lee,
Price). Another indicator of the high esteem in which our scholarship is held is a number of non-
stipendiary, visiting research posts, including at Queen’s University Belfast (Grayson, 2014/15),
University of Edinburgh (Lee, 2015, 2016/17, 2019/20).

Grant success has been achieved through vigorous and committed pursuit of funding for individual
and collaborative research projects, with sustained support from Goldsmith’s Research and
Enterprise Office. Staff can apply for College funds for research development, public engagement,
impact, and the Global Challenges research fund. Members of staff also receive an individually
tailored weekly College newsletter with funding and fellowship opportunities, helping to identify
possible grants and fellowships.

Academic and research staff are housed alongside PGRs along a single corridor, in the main
university building located in the centre of the campus. In 2019 the Centre for Queer History moved
to a building of their own, thus providing space for staff members and PGRs to teach, study and
interact. These two designated History spaces contribute to a sense of community and group
dynamic. All staff on research and teaching contracts have their own offices, while associate
lecturers and PGRs have shared office space. Academic staff and postgraduate research students
benefit not only from Goldsmiths’ facilities, but also the unparalleled learning resources of the
University of London as well as other London libraries, archives, and museums, such as the Black
Cultural Archives, George Padmore Institute, Institute of Race Relations, National Archives, the
British Library and Museum, the Wellcome Library and the Imperial War Museum.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations and impact

During the current REF cycle, we have made substantial contributions to the discipline, through our
three research Centres, and via our collaborations with other academic departments, and
institutions, both nationally and internationally.

Founded in 2009 by Djokić, the Centre for the Study of the Balkans (CSB) enables collaboration
between Goldsmiths’ regional specialists from the disciplines of History, Politics, Anthropology,
Sociology, Theatre and Performance, Media and Communications, and Cultural and Creative
Entrepreneurship. It facilitates dialogue with their counterparts based elsewhere in the UK and
abroad, as well as with non-academic stakeholders, such as diplomats, journalists and museums.
The Centre’s external advisory board includes such scholars as Mark Mazower (Columbia), Katherine
Fleming (NYU), Hannes Grandits (Humboldt University of Berlin), and Vesna Goldsworthy
(Exeter/UEA), who significantly raise the international profile of the Department and Goldsmiths in the
field of S-E European area studies and more broadly in Humanities and Social Sciences. Other History



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
staff whose research is relevant to the work of the Centre include Gammerl, Plamper, Stouraiti and
Watson.

The Centre’s main activity is a series of events which consistently attract large audiences of
academics, diplomats, journalists and members of public. During the current cycle, the CSB has
approached the study of the Balkans from global, transnational and comparative
perspectives: highlights include a week of film screenings and talks with globally-renowned,
award-winning (e.g. Berlinale, 1969 and 1995) Serbian director, dissident and social activist Želimir
Žilnik, co-organized with Birkbeck, Lux and Close-Up cinemas, and funded by CHASE (Nov 2019);
a one-day conference ‘Global Yugoslavia’ (Nov 2018; funded by Past & Present and IHR and
featuring ECRs and well-established international experts in the region); a round table discussion
on Irish-Balkan cultural connections, featuring Roy Foster (Oxford/Queen Mary UoL),
Goldsworthy and Djokić; and a presentation on new multimedia (documentary, novels and
historical scholarship) works on Balkan Jewish history (both events held in 2017). Zoom online
events started in 2020, reaching a global interdisciplinary audience, a mix of senior and junior
scholars, and non-academics, including writers, film directors and interested amateurs.

The Centre of the Body (CoB) was established in 2012 and is co-directed by Yoeli-Tlalim
(History) and Anna Furse (Theatre and Performance), with an advisory board from Media and
Communications (Lisa Blackman, editor of Body and Society), Anthropology (Sophie Day) and
Sociology (Monica Greco). The Centre has received financial support from the Wellcome Trust,
Goldsmiths’ Research & Enterprise Committee and its two lead departments. Bengry, Fryar,
Gammerl, Lee, Plamper, Richmond, Wald carry out research relevant to the Centre.

The CoB was established to provide an inter-disciplinary Centre with a focus on the Body,
incorporating scholars and practitioners from the humanities, social sciences and the arts.
Building on the breadth and wealth of research and artistic activity at Goldsmiths around aspects of
the body, the Centre has nurtured synergies between colleagues working in different disciplines
and engaged with non-academic stakeholders to generate impact and public engagement. These
include scholars, artists and members of the health profession community, both within the college
and beyond. Following a highly successful inaugural series of events (with Nobel Laureate Sir
Tim Hunt among the speakers), synergies and collaborations between the College and London
Museums have been created as a result of the Centre’s activities. For example, in 2017 the Centre
ran a series of inter-disciplinary events in collaboration with the Freud Museum and the Old
Operating Theatre Museum. The directors of the Centre are currently preparing grant
applications to fund the next round of activities of the Centre. The Centre of the Body and Yoeli-
Tlalim’s work have led to a collaboration with the University of Bristol and Durham University’s “Life
of Breath” project (with Jane Macnaughton and Havi Carel as PIs, Wellcome Trust funded, 2015-
20).

The Centre for Queer History, hosted by the Department, was inaugurated in autumn 2019,
directed by Bengry. Gammerl is also on the advisory board. Other members of the Centre include
Goldsmiths’ staff from several departments, as well as leading academics from universities across
the UK (Matt Cook; Jeffrey Weeks; Alison Oram), public historians, heritage professionals and
postgraduate students. Financial support is provided by the Department. The Centre is already a
global hub for queer history research bringing together a multi-disciplinary range of international
high-calibre students, scholars, activists and community members. It convenes an international
speaker series, facilitates collaboration between academic and community partners, and is a

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
hub for queer public history, engaging with a wider public of community members, activists and
heritage professionals who are engaged with questions of the queer past and who promote the
value of sexual and gender diversity today. The Centre’s work includes public history events,
workshops, and the creation of the Goldsmiths’ Archive of Queer Life Histories.

The Centre for Queer History and Bengry’s work has led to LGBTQ consultancies with The
National Gallery, BBC1, and an ongoing initiative with the Queer Britain museum, Levi's and
the Post Office to write letters to Queer Britain about experiences during COVID-19. The project
went out to over 11,000 Post Office branches and is ongoing. Bengry has launched an
international partnership with Queer Britain and Kent State University (Ohio, US) for a video
history project called 'Queer Pandemic: Resilience in Times of Crisis' recording LGBTQ people's
experience of the COVID pandemic with an eye both to preserving these histories for the future
and making policy recommendations in the present. It is also a teaching project, incorporating
students into international research in the US and UK.

The Centre hosts and co-hosts regular talks and co-convenes the IHR History of Sexuality
Seminar. Speakers have included Glyn Davis (Film, Edinburgh College of Art), Geoff Hardy
(Activist and Educator), Rosie Sherrington (Historic England), Jens Rydstroem (Gender Studies,
Lund University, Sweden) and Rainer Herrn (The Charité, Berlin). The Centre offers master-
classes and careers events and holds an annual international New Research Workshop. Most
recently the Centre worked with Daisy Asquith (Media and Communications) to co-convene the
Queerama Storytelling Workshop, bringing together filmmakers and academics. The annual
Goldsmiths’ Queer History Fair is the largest of its kind in the UK and likely Europe and was
covered in Time Out and The Evening Standard. Even though the Centre for Queer History was
inaugurated only in 2019, it has proven to be a significant manifestation of our research strategy
element of creating change, locally and globally.

Our three research centres have allowed us to attract visiting fellows with relevant research
expertise. During the current cycle, our visiting fellows have included Margarette Lincoln (2015-
17; her monograph, written during the fellowship in the Department was shortlisted for the 2019
Wolfson History Prize), Rebecca Steinfeld (civil partnership activist, Centre of the Body Visiting
Research Fellow, 2015-18) and Dejan Jović (University of Zagreb), a leading expert on late- and
post-socialist Eastern Europe and a former advisor to foreign ministers and a president of Croatia,
who was a Balkans Centre Visiting Research Fellow in 2017/18. Molly Merryman (2018-2020) of
Kent State University, USA and Sébastien Tremblay (2019) from the Freie Universität, Berlin
have brought international perspectives and research expertise to the Centre for Queer History
during their tenures as research fellows. Merryman is also Research Director of the Queer Britain
museum, while Tremblay’s innovative work on the history and memory of the Pink Triangle brought
field leading research and innovative perspectives to PGR seminars at Goldsmiths.

International and National collaborations

International: Plamper has been Associate Researcher at Centre for the History of Emotions at
Max Planck Institute for Human Development, Berlin (2012-2020); member research group
‘“Hate Pictures” - Use of Images and Aversive Emotions in the Visual Culture of the Political’,
Centre for the Study of Antisemitism, Technical University, Berlin (2014-present); member of
the Scientific Advisory Board Academy of Finland Centre of Excellence (2018-25) History of



                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Experiences, University of Tampere (2018-present); member research project ‘Protest. Images.
Emotion’, University of Siegen (2019-present).

Yoeli-Tlalim has been a member of four international work groups at the Max Planck Institute for
the History of Science (Berlin): “Itineraries of Materials, Recipes, Techniques, and Knowledge
Across Eurasia, 750-1800” (2014-2019); “Translating Medicine in the Premodern World” (2016-
2019); “Visualizations of the Heavens and their Material Cultures in Eurasia and North Africa
(4,000BCE-1700CE)” (2017-ongoing) and “Premodern Experience of the Natural World in
Translation” (2019-2020). She was also a visiting scholar in the “Episteme in Bewegung”
Excellence cluster at the Freie Universität, Berlin in 2016. During the pandemic she has been co-
convening international seminars of the International Association for the Study of Asian
Medicine (via Zoom).

Gammerl was Associate Researcher at Centre for the History of Emotions at Max Planck Institute
for Human Development, Berlin (since 2017). Fryar has organised an international workshop
(‘Slavery, Race, and Gradual Freedom in the Long Nineteenth Century’) with a colleague at the
University of Georgia since 2019, supported by funds from the University of Georgia. Originally set
for Athens, Georgia in April 2020, the event will now take place on Zoom in March and April 2021.
She is also a founding member of the Historical Approaches and COVID-19 Working Group of the
National Science Foundation-funded Social Science Extreme Events Research (SSEER)
Network and the CONVERGE facility at the Natural Hazards Center at the University of
Colorado, Boulder.

National: Our national collaborations involve sustained activities which have taken place over
many years including: Bengry, Djokić, Elias, Fryar, Grayson, Hessayon and Wald, convene or co-
convene six seminar series at the Institute of Historical Research; Richmond sitting on the IHR
Advisory Council (2013-2019); Lee is a founding co-convenor of a University of London seminar,
‘Southern Africa: History, Culture and Society’; Yoeli-Tlalim was a member of the Wellcome
Collection’s History of Pre-Modern Medicine Seminars Organising Committee (2012-2018).

4.2 Wider influence

Journal and publishing editorships
Since February 2019 the Department has hosted the British Journal of Military History, an
online open access academic journal making academic research accessible to all. BJMH is co-
edited by Grayson and Wald; Watson chairs the Editorial Advisory Board. Plamper is sole editor of
Cambridge University Press Elements Histories of Emotions and the Senses (2018-present)
book series and co-editor of Forschungen zur Osteuropäischen Geschichte (2012-present);
Lee is co-editor of Journal of Southern African Studies (2020-present), and Djokić is a joint
editor of Slavonic & East European Review (since 2011), while Yoeli-Tlalim (2017- present) is
Associate Editor of Asian Medicine: Journal of the International Association for the Study of
Traditional Asian Medicine (Brill). Richmond has co-edited Textile History (Pasold Research
Fund) since 2016. We sit on editorial boards including American Historical Review (Plamper,
2013-2016); European History Quarterly (Djokić, 2003- ); Jahrbuch Sexualitäten (Gammerl,
2016- ); Emotions and Society (Gammerl, 2019- ); Journal for the Study of Radicalism
(Hessayon, 2007- ); Journal of Southern African Studies (Lee, 2012- ); Twentieth-Century
British History (Fryar, 2020-); History Workshop Online (Bengry and Elias, co-editors, then



                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
advisory board, 2015-). Wald is a member of the editorial board of Journal of Military History,
The Historian (Pakistan) (both 2020- ).

Prizes
We have published award-winning research. Most notably, Watson’s book Ring of Steel (2014)
won the 2014 Wolfson History Prize (£25,000), the 2014 Guggenheim-Lehrman Prize in Military
History ($50,000), the Society for Military History’s 2015 Distinguished Book Award winner,
the 2015 British Army Military Book of the Year Competition and The Sunday Times ‘History
Book of the Year’ for 2014. The book was nominated for the Wacław Felczak and Henryk
Wereszycki Prize, awarded by the Jagiellonian University in Cracow, Poland. Watson’s The
Fortress: The Great Siege of Przemysl (2019) was a BBC History Magazine ‘Book of the Year’,
a Financial Times ‘Book of the Year’ and was shortlisted for the U.S. Gilder Lehrman Prize
(formerly the Guggenheim-Lehrman Prize) and the British Army Military Book of the Year
award. These two books have made a significant impact beyond academia, as detailed in
Watson’s Impact Case Study. De Nicola’s Women in Mongol Iran was awarded ‘Book of
Excellence for the Year 2017 on the subject Iranian Culture and Civilization' by the Embassy
of Islamic Republic of Iran in the UK. Plamper won the British Association for Slavonic and
East European Studies Women’s Forum Prize for best book chapter, 2014. Wald’s Vice in the
Barracks was shortlisted for the Royal Historical Society’s Gladstone Prize (2014) and the
Society for Army Historical Research Templer Award for Best First Book (2014). Walsh’s
Bitter Freedom: Ireland in a Revolutionary World 1918-1923 (2015) was chosen as ‘Book of the
Year’ by the Irish Times (2015). Yoeli-Tlalim’s 2010 article “Tibetan ‘wind’ and ‘wind’ illnesses:
towards a multicultural approach to health and illness” was chosen in 2018 by the History of
Science Society and the Philosophy of Science Association as one of 20 most important articles
to have been published in the last 20 years in the journal Studies in History and Philosophy
of Biological and Biomedical Sciences. Bengry was finalist (Pride of Place) for the English
Heritage ‘Angel Award’ for Best Research Project.

Participation in grant committees, Research Councils and national or international committees
Our staff members participate in national and international grant committees and research
councils. Since many of us have unique expertise, both senior and junior colleagues take part
in these engagements. Examples include Elias (early career) is Chair of the IHR Equality
Working Group, committee member of Historical Association Diversity Steering Group and
Higher Education Committee, member of Runnymede Trust Education Working Group, Head
of ‘Inclusive Histories’ initiatives at the Institute of Historical Research and in June 2020 was
Co-Chair of Royal Historical Society Workshop on the impacts of Covid-19 on university
admissions for BME students in History. Lee is Vice-Chair of evaluators for a funding call under
Horizon 2020. Djokić was a member of the International Advisory Council of the Scientific
Research Centre, Slovenian Academy, as the only historian in a group of six senior international
academics (2011-16). Gammerl serves as adviser of the research project Homosexual Movement
and the Law in Germany, 1949-2002, Freie Universität Berlin (since 2018). Grayson was Chair of
Academic Advisory Group for Imperial War Museums’ First World War Centenary Digital
Projects (2012-18) including ‘Lives of the First World War’ and ‘Operation War Diary’ (used as a
Case Study by the National Archives and Universities UK in their ‘A Guide to Collaboration for
Archives and Higher Education)’; Associate Member of First World War Centenary Committee
in Northern Ireland (2014-18); member of Institute of Education’s advisory group for the
Department for Education’s school battlefield visits (2013-18). Hessayon is an advisor to the
trustees and member of the education sub-committee of the Panacea Charitable Trust (since

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2016); a member of the History UK steering committee (2014-19); a member of the Institute of
Historical Research Fellowship committee (2015-18). Plamper is a member of the scientific
advisory board DFG project ‘Osteuropa-Dokumente Online’ (OstDok), Bayerische
Staatsbibliothek Munich, Collegium Carolinum Munich, Herder-Institut Marburg, Osteuropainstitut
Regensburg (2011-16); a member of the Scientific Advisory Board HEX Centre of Excellence
in the History of Experiences, University of Tampere (2018-2025). Lee and Grayson won
competitive elections in 2020 to serve as members of the councils of, respectively, the Royal
Historical Society and the British Association for Irish Studies.

External examinations of PhDs
During the current REF cycle, we served as external examiners of doctorates extensively in the UK
and internationally at: EUI Florence (Djokić, 2015); University of Hong-Kong (Yoeli-Tlalim, 2015)
and University of Tübingen (Plamper, 2018).

Invited keynotes
Goldsmiths’ historians frequently give keynote addresses and present papers at major international
events. International examples of keynotes include, but are not limited to: ‘The history and future of
“experience” in historiography’ at: ‘History of Experience: Theories, Methodologies, and
Concepts’, Academy of Finland Centre of Excellence in the History of Experiences, Tampere
University, Finland (2019), as well as keynotes in University of Helsinki, 2014; University of
Southern Denmark, Odense, 2015; Tübingen, 2017; Cologne, 2018 and Greifswald, 2019
(Plamper); ‘Not Guilty: Disregards and Statutory Pardons for Homosexual Offences in the UK’, 2nd
Haifa Queer History Festival, Beit Ha'Gefen, Haifa, Israel, 2019 (Bengry); “This three-named
people of ours, one and united”: Revisiting the Yugoslav kingdom 100 years later', at
‘Constructing a real image of the period 1918-19: Continuity and Changes’, Kobe & Tokyo
(2019) (Djokić); ‘The Silk-Roads as a model for exploring Eurasian transmissions of medical
knowledge’, ‘Episteme in Bewegung’ TOPOI Excellence Cluster, Freie Universität Berlin (2016)
(Yoeli-Tlalim); ‘Ring aus Stahl: Die Mittelmächte im Ersten Weltkrieg’ at the Zentrum für
Militärgeschichte und Sozialwissenschaften der Bundeswehr, Potsdam, Germany (2019)
(Watson); ‘Emotions and Sexualities’, 1st International Conference on Contemporary and
Historical Approaches to Emotions, University of Wollongong, Sydney (2016) (Gammerl);
‘Irish Identities in the British Army in the First World War’ at ‘Manpower and the Armies of the
British Empire in the Two World Wars’, Royal Military College of Canada (2018) (Grayson);
‘Social networks and the publication of continental European writings during the English
Revolution, 1641-1660', University of Alberta, (2019) (Hessayon); "‘Treading the Righteous Path
of History’: Journalists in Revolutions” at Annual Conference of Newspaper and Periodical
History Forum of Ireland, Dublin, University College Dublin, (2015) (Walsh).

We have grown to become a dynamic, distinctive, diverse and engaged department, creating
history that matters and inspires people and scholars, both nationally and beyond.




                                                                                             Page 15
