Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution:

 Heriot-Watt University (HWU)

 Unit of Assessment:
 Sub-panel 7: Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 We are proud of our track record of achievement in Earth Systems and Environment at Heriot-
 Watt University (HWU) and our ambition to become a world leading institution to bring solutions
 to critical global challenges across the terrestrial, aquatic, and environmental sciences has led to
 extensive targeted investment in this Unit since 2014. We attracted The British Geological Survey
 (BGS) as a strategic partner that co-located to HWU campus in 2016 with the completion of the
 Lyell Centre for Earth and Marine Science and Technology including new infrastructure,
 supporting cutting-edge biogeochemical, microbiological and geoenergy analytical capabilities
 and staff (£23M investment NERC, Government and HWU see section 3). Since 2014, research
 has intensified, and our unit has nearly doubled in size to 35 FTE (up from 18 FTE) largely due to
 investment in the Lyell Centre and recruitment of outstanding mid-career scientists. Further the
 Wolfson Aquarium for Climate Change Research opened in 2017 and doubled our aquarium
 facilities to >50,000L of seawater and continuous supplies of de-chlorinated freshwater delivered
 to purpose-built temperature/pH/gas-controlled rooms for aquatic research. On the terrestrial-side
 we have developed major research programmes on carbon and water cycling in tropical areas
 through significant GCRF investment. We have expanded (investment of £7.5M) our International
 Centre for Island Technology (ICIT-Orkney HWU’s Stromness campus) to become a leading
 research centre for marine technology research embedded within a framework of environmental
 and socioeconomic sciences. Our Unit lies within the School of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure
 and Society (EGIS) with the integration of the HWU-BGS vision championed by a Director of the
 Lyell Centre (40% appointment HWU, 60% BGS). The School of EGIS, comprising institutes and
 groups spanning engineering, earth, biological, and social sciences facilitates interdisciplinary
 collaborations poised to deliver research solutions focused on the UN-SDG.
 Research and Impact strategy
 Our unit is formed of three integrated themes drawn together by expertise in policy and
 governance of natural resources (Figure 1). Staff are aligned within and across the themes
 Fundamental processes, human Impacts, and human Solutions that align directly to address
 critical global challenges with impact-driven research across scales from molecules to global
 ecosystem processes within the atmosphere-land-ocean continuum.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




           Figure 1. Academic staff (35 FTE) in our unit work on research topics across
           three integrated research Themes- Fundamental Processes, human Impacts
           and human Solutions, which are overlaid by expertise in Policy and
           Governance to deliver impact from our scientific investigations.
 Achievement of vision and progression of strategic plans set out in REF2014
 Investment in new infrastructure and staff based on our strategic research since REF2014 has
 delivered our new approach for addressing critical global challenges through multidisciplinary
 research across three integrated Themes Fundamental Processes which supports our
 understanding of Impacts and innovations for Solutions across which our expertise in Policy &
 Governance drives implementation. Establishment of the Lyell Centre has delivered an
 international centre of excellence for innovation in terrestrial, aquatic and environmental sciences
 that captures the strengths of both HWU and BGS to focus on research that provides practical
 evidence-based solutions to critical global ecosystem challenges of the Earth’s surface, sub-
 surface, oceans and atmosphere. Since 2014, we have doubled our academic staff, generated
 >£15M in research funding awards (with £12M spent in the period), increased our ongoing roster
 to >10 postdoctoral researchers and >50 PhD students, and for REF 2021 we have selected 86
 of our top peer-reviewed scientific journal articles that have already accumulated >2000 citations.
 Synergy of HWU and BGS within the Lyell Centre
 The co-location of BGS at HWU within The Lyell Centre has created an exciting and vibrant
 collaborative research environment across both institutions that is a major addition to the UK
 research base and innovation strategy. This has allowed increased synergy in key alliances such
 as the Marine Alliance for Science and Technology Scotland (MASTS), Scottish Alliance for
 Geoscience, Environment and Society (SAGES) and the Scottish Universities Life Sciences
 Alliance (SULSA). Some of these synergies include:
 Marine geology & habitats: Shared BGS/HWU interests in geological and habitat mapping (e.g.,
 collaborative work on offshore renewables, deep-sea mineral resources and associated
 environmental impacts), will be strategically important as deep-water resources are exploited in
 UK continental shelf and other settings (e.g., British Overseas Territories). Current joint projects
 in research related to environmental assessment for sea floor development for resource extraction
 include the GCRF One Ocean Hub (UKRI) and SMARTEX (NERC).

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Marine technology & engineering: Shared use of marine equipment (e.g., BGS seabed coring,
 drilling, vessels, and scientific divers) and development of innovative robotic approaches for sub-
 sea survey and sampling (e.g., Edinburgh Robotics Centre and UKRI ORCA, Institute of Sensors,
 Signals and Systems; and bespoke deep-sea landers).
 Integrated Ocean Drilling Programme (IODP): BGS role as host of IODP’s UK operations
 encourages development of joint mutual interests (e.g., joint bids on Expedition 339 material).
 The Lyell Centre has doubled our critical mass of Terrestrial, Aquatic and Environmental
 researchers and enables HWU and BGS to share expensive infrastructure. For example, the
 relocation of BGS Marine Operations, including marine drilling engineering technology to Lyell has
 created exciting opportunities for co-design of sea-going scientific equipment and research cruise
 mobilisation facilities (e.g. sea-bed lander systems and sub-seabed sampling sea-floor drills), and
 joint lead of deep-sea expeditions on environmental assessment and exploration of mineral
 deposits. Similarly, BGS staff within the Centre regularly uses existing University workshops and
 other experimental facilities including the University’s marine renewable campus on ICIT-Orkney.
 Most importantly, the Centre fosters unified Atmosphere & Terrestrial & Ocean research and
 technology developing and expanding the University’s expertise alongside the BGS’s world-
 renowned reputation in Earth science with defined societal relevance and wider impact.
 Research Themes and Composition
 Research across our unit is highly integrated and links understanding of fundamental processes
 of earth systems with characterization of human impacts and implementation of human solutions
 that are delivered through our expertise in policy and governance.
 Theme 1: Fundamental processes (Earth sciences across interfaces)
 Our contribution to fundamental understanding of aquatic and earth sciences evolves from
 investigations that crosses levels of biological organization (molecular to global processes) and
 time (paleo-environmental changes, modern systems of carbon cycling, future
 predictions/simulations). Of critical importance is our focus on interfaces including those of land-
 river water, freshwater-marine, coastal-open ocean, sea surface-deep sea, and atmosphere-water
 (both freshwater and marine).
 Aquatic Processes
 Our research on fundamental ecosystem processes from rivers to estuaries, coastlines to open
 ocean, and the sea surface down to the deep seabed, underpins much of the applied research
 expertise in the aquatic science theme. Pioneering work (Pereira) using globally unique analytical
 facilities in the Lyell Centre have enabled characterization and resolution of the composition of
 dissolved organic matter (DOM) from head water streams through to rivers and marine waters and
 investigation of the role of low molecular DOM as a largely unknown but reactive carbon and
 nitrogen pool that rapidly interacts in the environment. Work on microbial methane oxidation
 (Pratscher) has unravelled the microbial biological sink for atmospheric methane (NERC
 Fellowship) and a methane biofilter system for widespread application and carbon capture is now
 in development. Industrial collaborations strengthen the sustainability aspect, by investigating
 microbial lignin degradation in the environment to optimize and increasing resource recovery and
 recycling (NERC National Productivity studentship). Work on sulphur cycling and processes
 influencing formation of harmful algal blooms (Pratscher) is being integrated with Braziliam fish
 farming applications (Henry). Closely embedded within research on fundamental processes are
 integrated challenges around rainforest management, social innovation of indigenous

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 communities, community-based work, and land use change (e.g., mining and agricultural
 expansion near the forest-savannah boundary) that directly address UN SDGs. Aligned and
 parallel to this work are projects on Amazonian agricultural expansion, environmental sciences
 and development of sustainable future for tropical South America (Brazil, Colombia, Peru) and
 more recently in Southeast Asia (Wagner).
 Our research to understand fundamental processes of aquatic ecosystems progresses across the
 freshwater continuum through interfaces with coastal to open ocean and deep-sea environments
 by combination and integration of multiple activity strands. Plankton ecology and ocean
 biogeochemistry alterations in relation to changing climate and acidification are key strengths
 (Poulton, with NERC-Defra funding). Our expertise in understanding global carbon cycles is
 extended through research on air-sea exchange of gases integrated with marine Earth
 Observation (EO) (Woolf) that advance the fundamental understanding of air-sea exchange
 processes, and application of EO data have led to an estimation (with uncertainty) of the global
 air-sea CO2 flux. Climate-related oceanographic expertise is highlighted by new approaches to
 understanding the occurrence of oxygen minimum zones in pelagic ecosystems (Hoogakker).
 Oceanographic expertise is complimented by our work in benthic ecology of shelf and deep seas.
 Research on coastal biogeochemistry and photophysiology of carbonate systems (coralline algae
 and coral reefs) along with ocean acidification research (Poulton) has led to a better
 understanding of the importance of mesophotic primary production and the importance of
 carbonate systems (Burdett, Leverhulme Trust, NERC). The response of biogeochemical cycling
 in soft-sediment communities subject to trawl disturbance (Sciberras) reveals a highly context
 dependent nature of the response in the microbial community (NERC). Our deep-sea research
 (Sweetman) is pioneering a better understanding of the ecological effects of deep-sea mining and
 is extensively supported by research councils (NERC, Horizon 2020) and industry (SmartEX 2021-
 2025; Deep-Green 2020-2022; DeepCCZ 2017-2021). State-of-the-art deep-sea landers and
 infrastructure investments of the Lyell Centre have positioned our unit at the forefront of deep-sea
 research with baseline investigations in areas protected from mining and in mining-license areas
 in the Clarion-Clipperton Zone (UK1, Ocean Minerals of Singapore, NORI-D, BGR). Our
 investment in deep-sea research capability has enabled expertise of academics in microbiology
 (Pratscher), ecotoxicology (Hartl, Henry), and pathophysiology of aquatic organisms (Henry) to
 be applied directly within these research projects (NERC, Deep-Green). Collectively, we have
 emerged as a unit that can investigate across the key fundamental processes of deep-sea
 ecosystems. Further we (Sweetman) along with an international consortium have developed
 modelling approaches to predict and map effects of multiple stressors from climate change within
 the deep sea. Research informing how best to restore deep-sea ecosystems post-anthropogenic
 disturbance has arisen from the EC MERCES project (2016-2020).
 Earth science processes
 Our overarching aim is understanding of earth surface processes and feedbacks, with complex
 drivers and environmental impacts, element flows (biogeochemical cycles), climate, energy,
 ecosystems and society. We focus on critical interfaces, both spatially and through geological
 time, and place modern challenges into the geological context to inform on possible future
 trajectories of climate. Research within earth science processes is closely linked with those
 focused on the energy transition in EGIS’s Institute for Geoenergy Engineering (UoA12, joint with
 University of Edinburgh). Our leading innovation covers new technologies, including advancing
 analytical and method capabilities for novel field and laboratory applications. Examples of working
 closely with industry and other leading innovation partners, include:

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     the design, development and application of low-cost field based greenhouse gas sensors
      (Pereira, Partner BGS);
     extended Automatic Solvent Extractor (ASE) facilities (Magill, Partner ThermoFischer), and;
     the next-generation Rock Eval Pyrolyses 7S system (Wagner, Partners: developed by
      IFPEN and commercialized by Vinci, France; this work led to two patents in 2017 and 2018,
      led by IFPEN (Wagner as co-author).
 Earth Science research is organized into two main research topics:
    1. Modern systems and carbon cycling (described above)
    2. Paleo-environmental change with intense cross-fertilization across groups and schools, as
       well as pioneering individual research work.
 Our expertise in paleo-environmental research complements and enriches our modern
 perspective by high resolution research into major evolutionary steps and perturbations of past
 climate using sediments from international scientific drilling and field-based sampling. Pioneering
 contributions to the broad field of (paleo)climatology and archaeology have been made (Magill)
 by bringing past African landscapes alive, with all their dynamic and multi-directional processes
 and trends that impact the environment and its ecosystem services (e.g., water, carbon/nutrients
 and vegetation/food). This novel approach links archaeology with environmental biogeochemistry
 to understand the multi-dimensional interactive relationship of humans and Earth’s resources.
 Research on the deoxygenation of the Pacific Ocean (Hoogakker), from modern to past, has
 advanced our understanding of processes causing changes in ocean chemistry and links to
 atmospheric CO2. Excellence of this work is further demonstrated by research awards including
 the prominent UKRI Future Leaders Fellow (Hoogakker) for the project ‘Fate of ocean
 oxygenation in a warming world’.
 The aspect of anoxic oceans has been taken further back in time (Wagner) by investigation of
 brief periods of global climate and environmental change in the Paleogene-Cretaceous
 greenhouse world, linking long term geological processes (e.g. ocean gateway evolution) with
 multi-scale     climate     and    biogeochemical      response     (e.g.    continental  watershed
 evolution/continental runoff, aquatic carbon production and burial biotic response) and global
 modelling (e.g. orbital forcing, atmospheric and ocean, circulation, carbon-climate feedbacks,
 emerging ocean basins as carbon sinks). Our deep-time research also directly crosses-over to
 fundamental questions about fossil energy (gas and petroleum) and the role of deeply buried black
 shale as potential catalysts for fluid rock interactions, microbial interaction (deep biosphere) and
 leaching of organic and metal components of environmental concern (pollutants). The latter aspect
 is closely tied to central challenges of the UKGEOS program within which we (Pereira, Wagner)
 secured exclusive access to initial water and rock samples from the UKGEOS Glasgow study site
 to support an ongoing PhD project.
 Theme 2: Impacts (Understanding human impacts)
 Our understanding of fundamental processes of ecosystems integrates directly into investigations
 of impacts on these ecosystems. This theme cuts across the wide variety of human-induced
 stressors on environments at local and global scales and is directly aligned to understand impacts
 on resources and services provided by ecosystems. As such, research contributes directly to
 addressing key aspects of the UN-SDG.
 Human impacts in fisheries, seabirds, and marine mammals



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research spans local and regional systems to global initiatives informing sustainable fisheries
 policy. This expertise links directly to our projects on fundamental processes including GCRF-
 funded research programme ‘Sustainable Oceans, Livelihoods and food Security Through
 Increased Capacity in Ecosystem research in the Western Indian Ocean (SOLSTICE-WIO)’. One
 example is our leadership (Kaiser) on the international initiative ‘Trawling: finding common ground
 on scientific knowledge for best practices’ funded by international fishing companies and Walton
 and Packard foundations. This project developed methodologies to compute trawling footprints
 from 0-1000m depth using remote electronic monitoring data and underpinned by a global meta-
 analysis of the impact of fishing on the seabed which enables prediction of the system recovery
 (Sciberras, Kaiser). Methodologies we developed have been implemented by two international
 and one national organisation: International Council for the Exploration of the Sea to estimate
 Good Ecological Status, Seafish (in the Risk Assessment for Sustainable Seafood tool) and the
 Marine Stewardship Council (used by Conformity Assessment Bodies to undertake independent
 evaluation of fishing impacts). Our group has a close working relationship with the seafood industry
 on data-poor fisheries (Sainsbury’s, The Cooperative, M&S, Young’s Seafood, Lyons Seafood,
 MacDuff Shellfish, Scottish White Fish Producers Organisation, EDPR and Seafish) who funded
 four PhDs focused on scallop fisheries and static gear metiers. Advice and scientific support for
 demonstrating and implementing sustainable practice is provided to Orkney Sustainable Fisheries
 (Bell) (stakeholder and Government engagement on regional inshore fisheries) leading to
 changes in inshore fisheries management, e.g. minimum landing sizes. International research and
 knowledge translation is exemplified by the DataMares project (Johnson) engaging with small-
 scale data-poor Mexican fisheries and seafood supply chains enabling instantaneous insights into
 temporal and spatial patterns in catch composition and overlap with species of conservation
 significance e.g. vaquita.
 The expertise has been expanded by new appointments (McWhinnie, Votier) with excellence in
 research with seabirds and marine mammals and their interactions with other users of their
 environment (shipping, fisheries, renewable energy). Research focused on marine spatial
 management has provided insights into solutions to mitigate the effects of vessels; noise,
 entanglements and disturbance. Current projects include: ePICentre (EU Horizon 2020) aimed at
 reducing impacts of arctic shipping on marine mammals (2019-2023) and projects aimed at
 reducing tourism impacts on cetaceans in the Hauraki Gulf, NZ (2019-2022), and Canadian
 Department of Fisheries and Oceans project monitoring vessel activity in killer whale foraging
 areas (2017-2022). Seabird research has developed methods for managing seabird populations
 in the face of anthropogenic change, e.g., forage fisheries and African penguins in southern Africa,
 albatrosses and bycatch in the Falklands (Falkland Islands Government - funding), as well as
 developing a gulls research roadmap in urban environments (NERC iCASE studentship). More
 applied research focuses on quantifying the potential positives and negatives of offshore
 renewables. Together, this research supports a holistic approach to managing marine
 ecosystems, for instance, via implementation of Marine Protected Areas and by engaging
 stakeholders in new ways. Linked with this, are projects to understand how tropical seabird
 assemblages are responding to global change and the development of new solutions to
 management (funded - Bertarelli Programme for Marine Science and DARWIN Plus).
 Ecotoxicology
 We have an extensive track-record of organismal research in ecotoxicology with state-of-the art
 facilities and internationally recognized research leaders. Since REF 2014, >£3M in external
 funding (NERC, FP7, Horizon 2020, Marie-Curie) has been secured to support ecotoxicology

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research that investigates effects of toxicants in organisms ranging from unicellular algae to
 invertebrates and fishes. Our research (Fernandes, Henry) has been supported (Horizon 2020,
 NC3Rs) to develop new methods for toxicity assessment and translation of effects across
 organisms. We maintain cultures of model organisms (algae, daphnia, amphipods and zebrafish),
 and use a variety of other model organisms in our studies (e.g. crabs, amphipods, mussels, sea
 anemones, clams, sponges, tropical corals), we have established methods and published results
 of molecular and toxicological responses to develop new model organisms representative of
 specific ecosystems of interest including temperate freshwaters (pond snail Lymnea stagnalis),
 tropical estuarine and marine ecosystems (tropical marine amphipod Parhyale hawaiensis), and
 tropical freshwaters (fish Lambari Astyanax sp.) (funding from Brazil CNPq and FAPESP).
 Recently funded projects apply our expertise in ecotoxicology (Henry and Hartl) to address f deep-
 sea mining effects (UK NERC, Deep Green).
 Our research on ecotoxicology of engineered nanomaterials is internationally excellent and is a
 component of the NanoSafety group at HWU (Co-director Fernandes and toxicologist in UoA8).
 Within this unit we have particle analysis capabilities including electron microscopy and dynamic
 light scattering and zeta sizer equipment for investigating aqueous phase particle behaviour. Our
 research (NERC, EU FP7, Horizon 2020) has reported on particle toxicology and the influence of
 particle agglomeration, sorption of toxic substances to these agglomerates, and effects of sorption
 on the bioavailability and toxicology of substances and particles. We (Henry) have effectively
 demonstrated that nanoparticle absorption across epithelial membranes is minimal in numerous
 aquatic organisms and toxic effects are more consistently linked to disruption of tissue surfaces.
 We have developed and published innovative methods for maintaining nanoparticles in the
 aqueous phase for testing homogeneous dispersions to reduce variability inherent among toxicity
 tests.
 The breadth of research on presence and environmental impacts of plastics is extensive on local
 and global scales. The RealRiskNano project (Henry, NERC Highlights topic) has provided
 fundamental new information on the environmental fate, bioavailability, toxicant
 sorption/desorption, and toxicology of nano-micron sized plastic particles. Prominent published
 results are on the importance of microorganisms and exopolymeric substances in seawater that
 lead to the formation of microorg-agglomerates of plastic particles that alter physicochemistry,
 association with dissolved substances, and environmental fate (Gutierrez). Research (Henry) has
 demonstrated that absorption of nano- and micro-sized plastic particles is minimal in aquatic
 organisms through experiments with fluorescently labelled and 14C-labelled particles that served
 to realign the scientific community regarding the realistic risk of toxic effects from plastic particles.
 Among the most highly cited and impactful articles was documentation that the amounts of
 microplastics accumulated in wild mussels and therefore risk for human consumption is minimal
 compared to the microplastic particles that humans are exposed to from indoor dust. Henry was
 central to establishing a consortium (Consortium for Plastics and Sustainability, COMPASS) which
 encompasses all HWU Schools for mapping the future direction of the interdisciplinary challenges
 of plastics in the environment and global economy. This consortium also includes external partners
 in academia, industry, and regulatory agencies. Within this context we are addressing the critical
 global challenges of management of plastics with engagement at numerous international
 locations, with recent UKRI-GCRF grant awards (3SIP2C, £3.47M, NE/V006088/1, Kaiser +7
 Vietnamese partners) to work on Sustainable Solutions.




                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theme 3: Solutions (Implementation of solutions for human impacts)
 Our understanding of fundamental processes of ecosystems and how humans interact with these
 ecosystems are the foundations for this Theme. Research to improve efficacy of ecosystem
 management is applied on local, regional and global scales, and conservation strategies of
 fisheries and implementation of vaccines at organismal level are central.
 Conservation & Restoration
 This group specialises in marine biodiversity research needed to underpin management and
 sustainable development, with a focus on restoration and enhancement, Marine Protected Areas
 (MPAs) and Marine Spatial Planning (MSP). The expertise in biogenic reefs research
 (Sanderson, Harries, Porter) has led to the multi-award-winning Dornoch Environmental
 Enhancement Project with industry (Glenmorangie) and NGO partners (2014-2021), which aims
 to restore 4M flat oysters to the Dornoch Firth. Archaeological approaches have demonstrated the
 historic extent of flat oysters in the UK and northern Europe, pinpointing areas where restoration
 may be feasible. This work also triggered a KTP (with Bell) with Orkney Shellfish Hatcheries
 (2020-2023) designed to stimulate businesses to produce a local source of flat oysters which are
 notoriously difficult to rear. Hosting the Native Oyster Restoration Alliance in Edinburgh 2019, has
 placed HWU at the leading edge of an international movement to restore the European native
 oyster which was once a key species in the provision of ecosystem services in UK waters. In
 addition to oysters, the group specialises in more broadly in the ecology of biogenic habitats that
 are important carbon stores. Important advances have been made in understanding the extent of
 the distribution of biogenic reef fauna, such as horse mussels and flame shell reefs (Harries,
 Sanderson) and their overlap and interaction with potentially damaging fishing activities such as
 pot fisheries (Kaiser). The group have been strengthened by the appointment of Sciberras with
 expertise in systematic review of environmental evidence e.g. in relation to the utility of fully
 protected versus partially protected marine areas, which was recently featured as a key piece of
 evidence in the Cabinet Office review committee for Highly Protected Marine Areas (HPMAs).
 Expertise in fouling communities and interactions with hard man-made structures has important
 implications for alleviating maintenance costs of offshore installations (Want). This research is at
 the forefront of biodiversity/industry interactions with funding through EU- FoDTEC (forensic
 analysis of decommissioning tidal energy converter infrastructure) and WEP+ (wave energy
 project with biofouling) and the NERC-funded ‘BioFREE’ Innovation Placement in partnership with
 the European Marine Energy Centre. Collaborations on biodiversity of marine invertebrate
 communities of coral reefs has taken place with Heron Island Research Station (Great Barrier
 Reef), Qatar (Ministry of Environment and Municipality), Malaysia (University of Malaysia
 Terengganu) and Brazil (University of Pernambuco).
 Pathobiology and Food Security
 Understanding relationships between pathogenicity and virulence factors, management of
 infectious pathogens, and investigating molecular biology of drought tolerance in plants are key
 activities of our group aimed at preserving food security. Substantial progress has been made
 (Smith) in understanding environmental determinants of adaptation of pathogenic bacteria to
 specific niches associated with virulence capabilities of the exemplar bacterium E. coli (which has
 a miscellany of pathotypes ranging from commensal to highly invasive). Results have
 demonstrated the significant influence of host-generated metabolites on bacterial colonisation and
 survival within distinct host tissues and the consequent effects on pathogenicity. Conversely,
 bacterial metabolite profiles/composition have been identified that distinguish adaptation to
 different environmental conditions and distinct pathotypes. Further, recent investigations (Smith)
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are characterising the profound influence of semi-synthetic cephalosporin antibiotics on bacterial
 phenotype and host interaction capabilities. Together, these findings are highly pertinent to
 developing our investigations of differential pathobiology (e.g., invertebrate immunology,
 Dyrynda) in aquatic environments and species, notably those of immediate relevance to
 aquaculture. Such studies have led to Smith and colleagues to identify a range of factors with
 applicability to detection and differentiation of pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacterial strains.
 Importantly, outputs have included components with potential for development as agents for
 disease control (Smith, Henry) and several of these leads have been piloted as vaccine
 candidates in model and target species. is conducted. Lyndon leads the Fish vaccine research
 program (in our John Muir Aquarium) that underpins testing for market release of over 0.5 billion
 vaccine doses per annum to fish-farms across Europe. These vaccines prevent established and
 emerging fish disease that would otherwise compromise security and future expansion of
 important human food supplies. This work forms the basis of one of or submitted impact case
 studies. Research with barley and model plant species (Morris, Alexander) have moved forward
 understanding of key molecular pathways linked to dormancy/germination of seeds and drought
 tolerance. Control of barley germination is critical to malt preparation and subsequently whiskey
 and other spirits. Intricate experiments by our group with Arabidopsis thaliana and strains
 incorporating fluorescent transgene signals have revealed transmembrane proteins involved in
 water/osmotic regulation, and are poised to contribute to addressing reduced crop yields of
 increasingly saline soils of agricultural lands.
 Integration of our themes to deliver impact: - Policy and Governance
 Our research relating to ‘Policy and Governance’ is focused on the challenges of delivering a
 sustainable maritime economy (the Blue Economy) and mitigation and adaptation to climate
 change. Our research spans three broad themes:
   1.    Jurisdiction, governance and planning.
   2.    Rights, values, social welfare, and community benefits.
   3.    Sustainable development and space allocation.
 ICIT-Orkney has been the focal point for our Policy and Governance research. From its inception
 in 1989, ICIT-Orkney has been at the heart of interactions between industry, government,
 academia and community. ICIT-Orkney research interests have grown from offshore oil and gas
 environmental assessment to other uses of the seas, and more recently on the development of
 marine renewable energies (wind, wave and tide).
 ICIT-Orkney has participated in several large EU funded programmes FP7 and FP8 (Horizon
 2020). The €9m FP7 MESMA programme (Monitoring and Evaluation of Spatially Managed Areas,
 Johnson, Kerr, Side 2010-2014, HWU €200K) designed a generic MSP framework for Europe
 and contributed directly to the drafting of the EU MSP Directive. Our lead on a case study of the
 Pentland Firth and Orkney Waters (PFOW) Marine Plan involved close working with Marine
 Scotland. This relationship continues with our participation in the implementation of regional MSP
 for PFOW (see below). New PhD research (supervised by Johnson, Kerr) is considering the
 integration on international national and regional MSP policy.
 MESMA was followed by the €2.5m H2020 MARIBE programme (Marine Investment in the Blue
 Economy: Johnson, Kerr 2014-2016, HWU €200k). MARIBE considered EU ambitions to develop
 multi-use platforms (MUPs) in pursuit Blue Economy. MUPs offer potential efficiencies in use of
 sea space as well as beneficial economic synergies between uses. Working with industry and
 regulators MESMA developed business cases for a series of MUP designs. MESMAs results
                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 directly influenced subsequent H2020 funding calls. The €9m H2020 MUSICA programme (Multi-
 Use of Space for Clean Island Autonomy: Johnson, Kerr, Getchell 2020-2025, HWU €200k) is
 implementing MESMA findings in a MUP demonstrator project to supplement energy and water
 provision on the Greek island of Chios. This MUP integrates energy (wind, wave, solar),
 desalination and aquaculture.
 Staff within ICIT-Orkney have led significant projects establishing the hydrodynamic and
 ecosystem impacts of wave and tidal energy (MRE). Working with Marine Science Scotland
 (MSS), and 6 academic partners, the £975k Terawatt programme (EPSRC, £351k: Side, Bell)
 created detailed hydrodynamic profiles of the Pentland Firth and modelled ecological effects of
 changed energy profiles. The follow-up £948k Ecowatt 2050 programme (EPSRC, £319k: Side,
 Woolf, Bell, Harries) extended this work to study cumulative ecological impacts of MRE. A NERC
 Innovation Placement award (Woolf, HWU £48k), and MSS/SNH funding (£40k, Porter)
 embedded two ICIT-Orkney postdocs (Waldman & Miller) within MSS to help incorporate
 Terawatt/Ecowatt results into national modelling for aquaculture and MRE. Woolf is supervising
 an Energy Technology Partnership PhD in modelling the optimization of MRE arrays.
 Further work targets national and regional MSP policy including climate change, and carbon
 management. ICIT-Orkney led the audit of ‘blue carbon’ in PFOW, a first of its kind, study
 developing a methodology for the regional assessment on carbon stored in benthic habitats
 (Scottish Government, £45k: Porter, Sanderson, Want, Bell). ICIT-Orkney continues to support
 the implementation of the PFOW pilot regional plan, e.g. a meta-analysis of environmental data
 for PFOW (European Maritime and Fisheries Fund/OIC £15k: Kerr, Porter, Johnson, Bell,
 Fernandes) is improving the quality of environmental data used in regional planning. Other work
 seeks to improve community consultation processes and the communication of science within the
 PFOW MSP (Scottish Wildlife Trust, £15k: Johnson). ICIT-Orkney has provided research-based
 advice on MSP to: the Scottish Parliament Cross Party Working Group on Fisheries; the Scottish
 Offshore Renewables Research Framework (SpORRAn); the Scottish Parliament’s Environment,
 Climate Change and Land Reform Committee; and the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities.
 Biogenic habitats as Essential Fish Habitats and as carbon stores has been the focus of several
 studies as well as restorative intervention projects for these habitat types (Scottish & UK
 Government, £250k Harries, Porter Sanderson). The Dornoch Environmental Enhancement
 Project (Glenmorangie, Total £655k Sanderson, Mair, Harries, Porter) has shown that native
 oysters (Ostrea edulis) can be restored throughout the European MPA network as well as
 unpacking the essential knowledge required to do this. Combined with hosting the Native Oyster
 Restoration Alliance in Edinburgh 2019 (150 scientists and growers), this has placed HWU at the
 leading edge of an international movement to restore the European native oyster.
 Environmental management of oil and gas decommissioning is the focus of the INSITE 2
 CHASANS project (NERC,£550k, Porter, Want, Bell, Woolf). In this program, the team will
 develop oceanographic models to understand connectivity between oil and gas infrastructure in
 the North Sea and validate with population genetic analysis for specific species. This will enable
 impact forecasting on species distributions when oil and gas infrastructure is removed, or
 introducing new offshore wind farm infrastructure. This work involves significant stakeholder
 interaction across the North Sea offshore industry and will help transition from oil and gas to
 renewables in the UK’s blue economy.
 Our Policy & Governance expertise has been strengthened by the recent (2020) addition of Diz
 and Kelling. Research cuts across shallow and deep-sea systems and focuses on the law- and
 policy-making and operationalisation of the ecosystem approach to management and the
                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ecosystem approach to fisheries, including through area-based management tools, at local,
 national (Canada, UK, South Africa, Ghana, Namibia, Fiji, Solomon Islands, Cook Islands,
 Mauritius, Seychelles, Brazil, etc.), regional and global levels (through UN processes). Significant
 achievements include deputy Directorship of One Ocean Hub (GCRF £20M, 2019-2024), co-
 leadership of an Ecosystem Services for Poverty Alleviation (ESPA) project on small scale
 fisheries (2015-2017), and representing ESPA at various UN meetings on results of marine-related
 projects (2018). Impact is achieved at an international level through multiple consultancies on
 fisheries law and marine biodiversity undertaken for UN agencies by Diz (e.g., FAO and UNEP)
 and for European Parliament, OECD, International Pole and Line Foundation (Kelling) on policy
 interventions maximising livelihoods in small-scale fisheries through interventions in seafood
 supply chains.
 Forward look across themes
 We believe that our research strategy is robust and will be resilient through the challenging future
 landscape of the post-COVID and post-BREXIT world. Our research collaborations are already
 broad (North/South America, Africa, and Asia) in addition to work in the oceans of the world, and
 these will continue to expand. In addition to the many new developments arising directly from the
 existing synergies as listed our three themes above, there is scope for planning exciting new
 ventures. Among these new ventures include Breathing Oceans (€2M ERC Starting Grant 21-26,
 Pereira) or Marine Mapping & Ecosystems that integrates the considerable acoustic mapping
 expertise of BGS with marine ecologists and robot engineering specialists of HWU to create
 interdisciplinary teams able to explore new approaches to marine habitat and facies mapping. This
 initiative complements well our expertise in maritime spatial planning primarily based at ICIT-
 Orkney and also Edinburgh (Fernandes and Sanderson) with a new appointment (McWhinnie)
 a specialist in MSP. Future ambitions include the development of a centre of excellence in the
 impacts of deep-sea mining working with academia, governments and industry. We will create a
 virtual deep seabed environment, in conjunction with HWU Global Research Innovation and
 Development (GRID), which will allow researchers and innovators test hypothesis and equipment
 in a virtual environment that they can control and change. We are presently increasing staff
 compliment and expertise in this area to include environmental law. We are fully engaging with
 the European Green Deal especially with proposals developing from the ICIT-Orkney-led policy
 focused research.

 Research Governance
 Staff within research groups led by individual academics are arranged within the Institute of Life
 and Earth Sciences (Director: Fernandes) and overseen by the Head of EGIS (Chrisp) and School
 Management Team including Deputy Head of School (Henry) and Director of Research (Geiger
 also on the University Committee for Research and Innovation). School Management takes
 responsibility for strategy delivery and compliance with University research policies. This includes
 ethics and integrity where the School is represented on the University Research Ethics Committee.
 In addition, staff in this unit have a leading responsibility in the University for maintaining and
 reviewing use of animals in the John Muir Aquarium that is fully licensed by the UK Home Office
 for investigations including exposure to toxicants and live pathogens. Research in this unit are
 also active in reducing the need for animal testing with work funded by NC3Rs to develop new for
 toxicity assessment methods and translation across organisms (Henry). Staff also ensure work
 involving GMOs is fully compliant with regulations.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We encourage staff to engage with the Open Science agenda and are pleased to have reached
 our REF OA target (0 non-compliant outputs).


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Development
 The research intensification strategy of HWU has been the focus of our staff recruitment initiatives
 within Earth Systems and Environment. We have attracted new, proven, high performing
 academic staff or those with potential in the case of early career researchers through Lyell Centre
 appointments, and Bicentennial Research Leader initiatives for a total of 18 additional staff since
 2014 (nearly doubled in size since 2014 and total for HWU UoA7 is 35 FTE). This recruitment
 strategy has enabled us to populate our three research themes with:
     established researchers with internationally profiles Kaiser (HWU Chief Scientist), Ludden
      (President of International Union of Geological Sciences), Wagner, Votier;
     prominent emerging scientists at Associate Professor level (Sweetman, Poulton); and
     high-profile early career researchers (7 with ECR status on the REF census date) poised to
      carry forward our ambition to be a world leading institution to bring solutions to critical global
      challenges for years into the future.
 Staff have a primary focus aligned within one of the research themes but work across themes to
 provide a dynamic research environment that links research on fundamental processes of earth
 systems with environmental impacts and implementation of solutions. Our recognition of the
 importance of governance and policy is unique and evidenced by recruitment of new staff (Diz,
 Kelling) to compliment seven existing staff engaged in various aspects of policy and governance
 of natural resources. In addition, associated funding successes have meant that our research
 community continues to expand with >10 postdoctoral research associates (PDRAs).
 The development of research leaders is supported by programs within EGIS to deliver training
 (e.g., unconscious bias training, anti-bullying/harassment training) and guidance through
 processes (Professional Development Review- reviewer training and support), and mentoring by
 senior academics.
 Staff development
 The integration of senior academics with ECRs has accelerated research activity and provided
 considerable opportunity for career progression and development for junior members of staff. New
 academics are assigned a mentor (other than their line manager) and guidance is given for annual
 professional development, probation and promotion. ECRs can serve as second supervisor of
 PhD students with experienced staff acting as first supervisor. Considerable research time (70%)
 is allocated to new staff and PhD studentship allocations provided to foster a research-intensive
 culture that is demonstrated by weekly seminars with numerous invited international experts as
 invited speakers and expectations for all research students to deliver presentations of their
 research. Teaching is research-led with courses developed and integrated at all levels (UG, MSc,
 and PhD) into research programs. Allocation of teaching is reduced (<30%) for first several years
 of appointment to enable development of research programs. Since appointment, all new staff
 have continued to publish top-quality research outputs and secured new funding to establish and
 support their research groups. Evidence of staff development is indicated by the promotion of staff
 appointed since 2014 (Sweetman to Professor, 2019 and Hoogakker to Associate Professor,
                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020), and by staff securing prominent funding targeted at staff early in their career (e.g.,
 Hoogakker’s UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship and Pereira’s ERC Starting Grant).

 PGR Students
 The PGR student community has grown considerably since REF2014 as a consequence of
 investment in PhD studentships (e.g., James Watt Studentships) and Doctoral Training Programs
 (DTPs). Training of research students is integral to our work and this has particularly increased in
 strength over time in partnership with the Marine Alliance for Science and Technology Scotland
 (MASTS) Graduate School and more recently the 2 NERC DTPs (SUPER and IAPETUS). These
 DTPs offer PhD students cross-institution insight and external visibility that contribute the overall
 quality of PGR education. Research students are engaged in focused MSc programs in marine
 sciences (~40 students per year) and >50 PhD students working on research project across the
 three Themes of scientific investigation represented by our academics in this unit. Our program
 attracts numerous international students to the MSc program and PhD students funded by
 scholarships from their own countries are attracted to conduct their research under the direction
 of academics within our program. The PGR community is very dynamic and inclusive with many
 virtual student groups also emerging during the covid-19 pandemic.
 PhD students complete a rigorous program that is guided by HWU policies and infrastructure. The
 offers personal mentoring and guidance from supervisors, participation in discipline-specific
 scientific communities, and contribution to outreach events. The £7M Heriot-Watt Postgraduate
 Centre combines facilities for training, outreach and interaction with other postgraduate students
 across the university and workshops under the Researcher Development Framework. In addition,
 this Centre provides a hub for PGR student training, forum for prominent international lectures and
 inaugural lectures of our professors, and a location for conferences. An annual PGR Conference
 is organized and led by PGR students and encompasses the overarching cross-disciplinary
 characteristics of our unit and HWU. Across our unit PhD students are required to give annual
 presentations that detail their research plans, progress of research, and research results.

 Equality and Diversity
 Promotion of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) is a prominent objective within our unit and is
 implemented by policies, actions, and training aimed to deliver a dynamic and fair workplace for
 all of us. HWU has a robust framework to support EDI and has been awarded the Athena SWAN
 Institutional Bronze Status, and our School of EGIS also has a Bronze Athena SWAN award. An
 HWU-wide Equal Opportunities Committee ensures effective linkages and fairness across the
 HWU governance structures. The HWU Equality and Diversity Policy details the tenets and
 training is provided in diversity in the workplace, cultural sensitivity, unconscious bias training, and
 equality impact assessment. The positive actions HWU has taken to support researchers’ career
 development and the measures in place to implement its declared principles have been
 recognized externally. Within our UoA7 13 of the 37 are women; and the Director of EGIS’s
 Institute of Life and Earth Sciences (Fernandes) and Director of the Lyell Centre (Shimmield, in
 this academic management role) are both females. During new staff recruitment, we have
 implemented a policy to require gender balance on the shortlisting and interview panels. Interview
 panel members are required to take a course in unconscious bias training, and the there is an
 emphasis on fairness in everything we do throughout the appointment process. We are pleased



                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that in our submitted outputs the proportion of those attributed and associated with men and
 women shows no significant difference.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Our ambition to become world-leading is built on investment of >£25M in new infrastructure and
 staff since 2014 and has positioned us to make unique contributions to solve critical global
 challenges. Our research income is almost £12M compared with <£5M in REF2014 (doubling the
 per annum figure from £850k to £1,700k), and our successes reflect strategies put in place to
 support researchers. Staff have secured awards from diverse sources indicative of the
 multidisciplinary nature of our unit and include UK Research Councils (>£4.6M BBSRC, EPSRC,
 NERC); the European Commission (>£4.7M); UK Government Departments, Scottish Funding
 Council, local authorities, and other UK sources (>£2.3M); UK Charities (>£0.4M); and UK Industry
 and Commerce (>£3.0M).

 New Infrastructure
 New infrastructure since 2014 serves to enable delivery across our three integrated research
 Themes. A centrepiece is the Lyell Centre for Earth and Marine Science and Technology,
 which opened in 2016. The Lyell Centre, a strategic partnership between HWU and BGS is a £23M
 investment (NERC, the Scottish Government and HWU). Within the Lyell Centre is the Wolfson
 Aquarium for Climate Change Research opened in 2017, (£250k Wolfson Foundation). This
 doubled our aquarium facilities (600m²) to >50,000L of seawater and continuous supplies of de-
 chlorinated freshwater delivered to purpose-built temperature/pH/gas-controlled rooms for aquatic
 research. This facility is designed for UK Home Office standards for research with vertebrates and
 for adherence to biosecurity regulations to avoid transmission of pathogens. We have expanded
 ICIT-Orkney (investment of £7.5M) to become a leading centre for marine technology research
 bringing together environmental and socioeconomic sciences.
 The Lyell co-location provided us with unique access to BGS facilities through shared use of
 marine equipment (e.g., BGS seabed coring, drilling, vessels, and scientific divers) and
 development of innovative robotic approaches for sub-sea survey and sampling (e.g., Edinburgh
 Robotics Centre and UKRI ORCA, Institute of Sensors, Signals and Systems; and bespoke deep-
 sea landers). BGS role as host of IODP’s UK operations enables access to joint bids on topics of
 mutual interest (e.g., joint bids on Expedition 339 material), and facilitated access to BGS
 reference cores and archives.

 Facilities
 Facilities for aquatic research are exceptional within our unit and extend from highly controlled
 laboratories to extensive capabilities for research conducted within the numerous environments
 addressed across our three research themes. In addition to the new Wolfson Aquarium, facilities
 within the John Muir Building (>200m²) provide a freshwater and marine (>20,000L of seawater
 held on site) research space that includes fish vaccine and pathogenicity testing facility, four
 isolated climate-controlled environmental chambers (20m² each) and the zebrafish research
 facility (25m²) housing wildtype and transgenic zebrafish. Vaccine efficacy is supported by

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 extensive collection of microbial fish pathogens for notifiable fish diseases and complete
 microbiological facilities for propagation, characterization, and identification. Capabilities for fish
 pathology include fish necropsy laboratory, complete microbiology/molecular biology laboratories,
 purpose-built histopathology laboratory and biological imaging facility that serves across all
 research themes.
 Ecotoxicology laboratory
 These facilities enable investigation of toxicants in model organisms (algae, daphnia, amphipods
 and zebrafish) and use a variety of other model organisms (e.g., crabs, amphipods, mussels, sea
 anemones, clams, sponges, tropical corals). We have established methods and published results
 of molecular and toxicological responses to develop new models representing specific ecosystems
 of interest including temperate freshwaters (pond snail Lymnea stagnalis), tropical estuarine and
 marine ecosystems (tropical marine amphipod Parhyale hawaiensis).
 Scientific Dive Team
 Currently Harries, Porter, Sanderson; this capability is rare within the UK with with wide-ranging
 equipment for sampling and surveying. Our own research vessel, RV Serpula (26.5 ft Kingfisher,
 8-ton displacement hull, 130 HP Perkins Sabre diesel engine), has all appropriate navigational
 and safety equipment, dive ladder, winch, derrick and A-frame for trawling and deployment of
 benthic sampling gear. A drop-down video system with 150m umbilical cable enables monitoring
 of the seabed and collection of samples from the deck. We also have three zodiac inflatable boats
 and associated outboard engines. Sampling equipment includes long arm Van-Veen Grab, Carib
 Corer, Multi-Corer, Beam Trawl, Naturalists Dredge and Pipe Dredge.
 Deep-Sea Ecology
 Sweetman’s research group runs the Lyell Centre’s state of the art deep-sea lander facility and
 includes two seafloor respirometer landers, two baited-camera landers (with digital still and video
 capabilities), a seafloor micro-profiling lander equipped with O2, sulphide, pH micro-sensors and
 two baited-trap lander vehicles. All landers are capable of being deployed to 6000m depth. The
 landers therefore allow researchers to study respiration, nutrient fluxes, quantify C- and N-turnover
 at the seafloor, biogeochemical profiles, document the diversity of seafloor scavengers and
 predators in 98% of the available ocean habitat.

 Research support
 The university has a centralised research and business development professional support team,
 the Research Engagement Directorate (RED) works directly with individual researchers as follows:
     Research Development - provides specialist support for academic staff seeking to win
      research funding. Facilitating all funding activity including support for Fellowship applications
      (e.g., Hoogakker’s UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship) and GCRF opportunities.
     Business Development – works with academics to increase research income from industry
      and business (e.g., facilitating engagement with Glenmorangie, Aquapak among others)
     Policy, Strategy & Impact – ensuring and supporting research policies. The unit supports
      approaches to impact including the award-winning Public Engagement Team (e.g.,
      facilitating activities at science festivals such Science, Jellyfish, Science & Art EISF 2016)
      and delivered a refresh of training for ethics for staff in this unit.



                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Legal Services – this group provides essential advice on contract and IP arrangement (for
      example provided effective support for establishing contractual relationships across Europe
      for Pereira’s EC Starting Grant)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Members of our UoA7 submission make contributions to the research base, economy and society
 across each of our integrated research themes.

 International contributions
 Across our Research Themes, staff translate our research and expertise into the wider
 international agendas of sustainability, environment and conservation policy. These include
 leadership of international research programmes, science meetings and engagement with
 international bodies such as the UN (and related Conventions), the IUCN and the Areas Beyond
 National Jurisdiction (ABNJ) processes. In 2020, Ludden was elected as President of the
 International Union of Geological Sciences. Our staff contribute significantly to processes aimed
 at managing human pressures. Sweetman provided evidence to the UN International Seabed
 Authority (I.S.A.) on deep-seabed mining and its impacts on pelagic and seafloor ecosystems in
 ABNJ. He also sits as an expert on the International Maritime Organisation GESAMP working
 group focused on deep-sea mining (working group 42). In 2019, he co-led a UN ISA meeting in
 the USA to assess the effectiveness of the MPA network set up in the Clarion-Clipperton Zone
 (CCZ) to protect seafloor biodiversity and ecosystem function from the impacts caused by deep-
 sea mining, leading to the establishment of new MPAs in the polymetallic nodule-rich areas in the
 E and NW of the central CCZ. Fernandes was appointed as scientific expert to the European
 Commission from 2008-2016. She has also been a scientific adviser to the OECD over the last 10
 years. Henry presented the keynote address and chaired the plastic session at UNESCO
 Workshop on Emerging Pollutants in Water Resources in Latin America and the Caribbean
 conference (Campinas, SP State, Brazil), together with numerous invited seminars and
 presentations on plastics in the environment. Popular press articles achieved extensive
 international reach and led to radio interviews and other outreach avenues for public consumption.
 Gutierrez was nominated as the UK’s expert on the microbial response to the Deepwater Horizon
 oil spill. Wagner is a senior member of the global International Ocean Drilling Programme (IODP)
 community, with leading roles as shipboard chief scientist (IODP 339), Co-I on two scheduled
 expeditions (IODP 388 and 392, Wagner). Pratscher was an invited discussion leader for Gordon
 Research Seminar on “Solving Important Microbiological Questions in the "Omics" Era” (2015,
 Mount Holyoke College, USA). Woolf is a keynote speaker invited to the 5 yearly Gas Transfer at
 Water Surfaces conference delayed to 2022). He has organised and chaired several conferences
 in air-sea gas exchange (Oceanflux GHG – IFREMER 2014 and 2016).
 Our contribution to international conservation of biodiversity and has both legislative and practical
 application and conservation impact. Diz has contributed to international policy and law-making,
 including the Convention on Biological Diversity Thematic Workshop on Marine and Coastal
 Biodiversity for the Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework, was an invited panellist at UN
 events including on the negotiation of a new marine biodiversity treaty, the Convention on
 Biological Diversity’s process to describe ecologically or biologically significant marine areas and
 on mainstreaming of biodiversity into fisheries. She is an advisor for the EU’s International Ocean
 Governance Forum and has joined the Expert Advisory Working Group (co-sponsored by the

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Government of Germany, Ministry of Research) on the Ocean Governance and Science-Policy
 Interface Session of the kick off Conference for the U.N. Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable
 Development (June 2021, Berlin). Wagner was appointed Chair of the International Research
 Committee (ISC) for the Iwokrama International Centre for Rainforest Conservation and
 Development, Guyana. Votier’s research on African penguins has under-pinned policy on
 fisheries closures and MPA implementation in South Africa leading to recovery of threatened
 species. McWhinnie has been invited to contributed to expert working groups and taken part in
 advisory panels for informing government policy and management measures internationally
 (Canada Department Fisheries & Oceans Southern Resident Killer Whale Technical Working
 Group and Cumulative Effects Assessment for Southern Resident Killer Whale and Northern
 Resident Killer Whale Canada and Sothern Resident Orca task force U.S. Department of Fisheries
 and Wildlife and NOAA, America). She also contributed to a review of vessel management
 measures by the American and Canadian Coastguards for the Bering Strait and provided
 recommendations related to marine vessels for Arctic MPA Management Plans that have now
 been integrated and adopted for the Tarium Niryutait MPA.
 Our staff make wide-ranging and impactful contributions to the international sustainable seafood
 agenda. Johnson is part of the writing team (representing fisheries in Palau) for the World Ocean
 Assessment II which was adopted by the U.N. General Assembly in 2020. He was commissioned
 by the China Dialogue think-tank to write ‘Sustainable Seafood: China’s role in the global ocean’
 resulting in a letter in Science. He sits on the advisory board of Eachmile technologies and
 Fishcoin which are blockchain innovation NGOs. Kaiser and Diz are elected members of the
 I.U.C.N.’s Fisheries Expert Group and Kaiser co-authored a policy document on Other Effective
 Conservation Measures (OECMs) in relation to fisheries that was adopted by the Convention for
 Biological Diversity and gave the context to discussions at COP25 (Madrid). He also chaired the
 International Science Advisory Committee for the Dutch Government’s ‘Pulse trawl’ project from
 2015-2020. Kelling was an invited Panel speaker at major fisheries fora, including Designing the
 Future for Fisheries Certification Schemes, Japan, the 10th International Forum on Illegal,
 Unreported and Unregulated Fishing in Chatham House, London. Kelling is also seconded as
 Project Director to the FCDO-funded Nepal Renewable Energy Programme (NREP), a 4.5-year,
 £18M programme that commenced in February 2019. Several of our team contribute to
 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea advisory working groups (WGs) (Bell –
 Nephrops WG, Impacts of Wave & Tidal Energy Study Group, Chair of Workshop for reference
 point for Nephrops stocks, Sciberras – WG Fishing Benthic Impact & Trade-offs 2021-2023 and
 member of Comparative Ecosystem Based Analyses of Atlantic & Mediterranean marine systems
 (COMEDA) Votier ICES WG Discard Survival).
 UK Science Base Contributions with Global Significance
 Our staff have made substantial contributions to the UK science evidence base through their
 contribution to public committees, bodies or evidence for Government bodies and Ministers. For
 example, Kaiser is a trustee of ‘Fishing into the Future’ started by the Prince’s Charity’s
 International Sustainability Unit, was a member of the UK Cabinet Office review of Highly
 Protected Marine Areas which published the ‘Benyon report’ in 2020 and currently chairs the UK
 Government/Industry initiative ‘Future of our inshore fisheries’. Both Kaiser and Henry provide
 advice on UK seafood sustainability issues through membership of the Seafish Expert Panel. Bell
 was appointed to the Technical Advisory Committee for Fisheries Innovation Scotland, is Scientific
 Advisor on the Board of Orkney Sustainable Fisheries and was Northern Islands leader on the
 recent Marine Scotland Pressures Activities Assessment. Henry has presented results to Lord

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Randall at 10 Downing Street and met with UK Ministers in Parliament discussing priority solutions
 for managing plastics in the environment. Fernandes has advised on aquaculture management
 (e.g. UK, Scottish Parliament) and nanosafety (UK Parliament and EU scientific committees). Kerr
 gave evidence to Scottish Government cross-party working group on fisheries, and to the
 Environment, Climate Change and Land Reform Committee on spatial planning. Sanderson
 served on the OSPAR Benthic Specialist Group, Interagency Marine Monitoring Group and UK
 Technical Advisory Group, on methods and strategy development under Marine Strategy
 Framework Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Water Framework Directive. Votier
 contributes widely to seabird research and conservation serving as Chair of the Seabird Group
 (300+ members), Trustee for the Scottish Seabird Centre (2021 onwards), establishing a long-
 term monitoring gannet monitoring project in Pembrokeshire (since 2006) and managing the long-
 term Skomer guillemot project established in the 1970s. Porter has contributed to development
 and revision of Scotland’s Marine Atlas and the State of Orkney Environment report (linked to the
 development of Statutory Marine Planning for the Orkney region – to which McWhinnie has
 contributed marine mammal expertise). Poulton provided in-person evidence to the House of
 Commons Science & Technology Committee inquiry on Ocean Acidification (2017). Hoogakker
 was an author of the Geological Society ‘climate statement’, and acted as Deputy-Chair for a
 NERC Standard grant panel. Poulton is a panel member for NERC fellowship proposals.
 Fernandes is a member of the NERC Facilities Committee.

 Public engagement
 Through a series of high-profile public events (e.g., Edinburgh Geological Society Public Lecture
 in October 2019, Wagner; Edinburgh Science Festival panel discussions, bi-annually since 2014,
 Fernandes) and – increasingly important - media coverage. To this end, communicating sciences
 is a core element of our strategy going forward. Our high impact contributions at conferences,
 public events, and top-class journals have secured regular and high impact outreach and media
 coverage. Examples include broadcasting Magill’s work on the ‘world’s oldest cheese’ or ‘ancient
 human consumption of termites’, reaching >500 million and ~50 million worldwide, respectively.
 Pereira worked with a variety of global media outlets in his Ocean greenhouse gas work including
 the Guardian, Sun, Scotsman, Die Welt and Bild reaching over 7.1 million people (McDaid PR).
 This has also led to interviews for TV (BBC Worldwide) reaching an estimated 500 million people,
 and radio (Ecoshock, US; NDR, Germany). Pereira has also presented the scope his work
 direction directly to the First Lady of Guyana (2019) and the UK’s Chief Scientist, Sir Mark Walport
 (2017). Henry has delivered numerous keynote addresses at plastic industry events, and to public
 audiences on the topic of plastics in the environment including the Royal Society of Biology event
 “Marine plastics: is it too late to save our oceans” at the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Kerr
 gave a keynote at the HWU ‘Year of the Sea’ event at Westminster, House of Commons in 2018.
 Kaiser appeared on Sky News doing a 6-minute interview on the implications of Brexit for UK
 fishing, and published the 3rd Edition of ‘Marine Ecology: Processes, Systems and Impacts’ which
 is one of the most widely adopted Marine Ecology textbooks in the UK and globally, of which
 Chapter 18 was the top downloaded chapter in 2020 on the Oxford University Press ‘Global
 Citizen’ webpage.

 External recognition of excellence
 The emerging global profile of Earth Systems & Environment at HWU has also been recognised
 through prestigious awards and other esteem indicators. Hoogakker won the Philip Leverhulme

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prize for Earth Sciences 2018 and was awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. Pratscher
 was awarded a 5-year Independent NERC Fellowship (IRF) on "Single cell genomics and
 characterisation of the atmospheric methane oxidizing clade USC alpha and their response to
 climate change” (2014-2019, NE/L010771/1 / NE/L010771/2). Gutierrez was awarded (2015) the
 Energy News Researcher of the Year Award in the category Energy and the Marine Environment
 for outstanding work on microbial responses to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Burdett was
 awarded 2018 Charles Lyell Award for Environmental Science (British Science Association), and
 had a speaker invitation to 2019 New Scientist Live. Fernandes was a highly cited researcher in
 2018 (Web of Science). Poulton was named/awarded “2021 Foundation Future Leader” as part
 of the Foundation for Science & Technology 2021 Future Leaders Programme. Kaiser was
 elected as a member of Academia Europaea in 2018. Election of Magill as Research Fellow of
 the National Museums Scotland and Fellow of the Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh, Wagner
 was appointed as Distinguished Visiting Professor (China University of Geoscience, Wuhan).
 Research on oyster reef-restoration (Sanderson) was recognised in the VIBES Awards 2017
 (winner of Hydro Nation Award) that recognizes business collaboration that have developed
 innovative water treatment, won Walpole British Luxury Awards 2017 (“Luxury With a Heart”)
 celebrating high-end products from British businesses, won RSPB Nature of Scotland Awards
 2017 (winner of Corporate Award), recognising the best of conservation in Scotland, and won the
 Guardian University Business Collaboration Award 2019. In 2016, Ludden was awarded a CBE
 for Service to Geoscience.

 Editorial roles and panel service
 Editorial roles undertaken by staff through the last REF period include for example: Editor-in-Chief
 Journal of Fish Biology (Kaiser), Editor Scientific Reports (Hoogakker), Associate Editors:
 Atmospheric Science Letters (Woolf), Journal of Plankton Research (Poulton), Frontiers in
 Marine Science (Johnson and Hoogakker guest editor), ICES Journal of Marine Science and
 Journal of Applied Ecology (Votier) and board memberships of Marine Policy (Kerr), Fish &
 Fisheries, Conservation Letters (Kaiser), Oceans (Woolf), Environmental Evidence (Sciberras).




                                                                                             Page 19
