Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: 30: Philosophy


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure

 Edinburgh Philosophy is a vibrant, international community of 35 philosophers committed to
 producing research that transforms academic and public understanding of the human condition,
 the natural world, and our place within it. Since 2014 we have led a major strategic expansion,
 creating 16 new posts and returning 45% more FTE than in REF2014 [increasing from 23.6 to
 34.3 FTE]. This expansion has enabled us to establish exceptional depth and critical mass
 across the core areas of philosophy, including ethics, philosophy of mind, language/logic,
 philosophy of science and epistemology, while expanding into emerging areas of global
 significance and contemporary debate, including Africana philosophy, the philosophy of race and
 gender, the philosophy of death and dying, and the ethics of data and artificial intelligence.
 Based in the School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences (PPLS), our innovative
 contributions have been fostered through an unusual breadth and depth of interdisciplinary
 collaborations, including with neuroscience, medicine and informatics.

 Alongside this expansion in staff numbers, we have quadrupled our grant funding (from £1M in
 REF2014 to £4M). This includes 2 European Research Council grants, and nearly £1M in alumni
 support directed at scholarships for research students. We have also secured a £5M investment
 by Baillie Gifford to establish a new programme on Ethics and AI, including launching the Centre
 for Technomoral Futures. During this REF cycle we have driven up the quality of our outputs,
 evidenced through a significant increase in articles published in the top disciplinary journals (with
 36 articles in what are widely considered the top 5 generalist philosophy journals, versus 14 in
 REF2014; details below), and 7 major prizes for our work (see section 4). Through partnerships
 with schools, prisons, government and industry, and our pioneering MOOCs (over 568K
 enrolments), we have fostered skills of reflection and reasoning in a wide range of audiences
 and applied philosophical insights to central contemporary problems.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Edinburgh Philosophy’s strategy has been to invest in research transforming the scope and
 relevance of our discipline. Through strategic expansion we have strengthened research and
 impact across the core areas of philosophy, while developing new areas beyond this canon. 3
 enablers underpin our strategy:

 1. Attracting talented academic staff, postdoctoral fellows, research fellows, PhD
 students and visiting scholars by transforming our approach to recruitment and mentorship.
 Since REF 2014 we have appointed 16 colleagues to new posts, through ground-up redesign of
 our recruitment process (see Section 2). We have increased the number of PhD students, with
 73 completions in this REF cycle versus 26 in the previous REF cycle. This was achieved with
 the help of an enhanced recruitment process built around improved funding, including a £1M
 alumni endowment for PhD student support, and the development of a comprehensive set of
 training, support and placement activities. Quadrupling our external funding enabled us to recruit
 19 postdoctoral fellows and research assistants. We host a wide range of visiting scholars, who
 give talks, comment on papers, and provide PGR training. There has been substantial growth in
 this collaborative activity, with 88 official visitors versus 33 in the REF2014 cycle.



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. Creating a stimulating and collaborative research community in which staff can realise
 ambitious research goals. Our research is organised around 7 overlapping clusters, which
 provide critical depth and visible, well-articulated pathways for support, peer review,
 collaboration and events. This has underpinned a major increase in research funding, and
 outstanding publication success. Research outputs from Edinburgh Philosophy account for
 approximately 4.4% of all articles published between 2014-20 in what are widely considered the
 top 5 generalist journals (Journal of Philosophy, Mind, Nous, Philosophical Review and
 Philosophy & Phenomenological Research).

 3. Fostering interdisciplinary and industry partnerships to achieve sustained impact. Since
 REF2014, the School has made a series of investments to strengthen our impact. This includes
 appointing 5 specialised professional service staff to support impact and outreach activity and
 establishing a fund for academic staff to run scoping studies (9 pilot projects awarded to 7
 members of staff). We also appointed 3 impact fellows in Philosophy to direct projects delivering
 impact.

 Research Groups

 Significant growth in staff and funding has underpinned major expansion which is now organised
 around 7 main areas: History of Philosophy, Philosophy of Mind, Epistemology, Philosophy of
 Logic/Language, Ethics, Philosophy of Science, and Philosophy of Race and Gender. While
 these areas are neither exhaustive nor exclusive, they reflect areas in which we have
 strategically built critical mass and hubs for collaboration.

 History of Philosophy. History of Philosophy has seen significant expansion over the REF
 period, with our existing group (Kupreeva, Massimi, Phemister, Ridge, Richmond and Ward)
 joined by experts on Early Modern and Scottish Enlightenment (Cohen, Cottrell, Gill, J. Marusic),
 Islamic philosophy (Almotahari) and late Hellenistic philosophy (Caluori). The recent
 appointments of Cottrell, Gill, and J. Marusic make Edinburgh a world-leading research group on
 Scottish Enlightenment, with a particular focus on Hume. Cholbi, Massimi and Cohen’s work on
 Kant has drawn important connections between his philosophy and contemporary issues. For
 example, Cholbi’s work on paternalism draws on his understanding of Kantian ethics by
 distinguishing 3 features of rational agency to offer a new account of the wrongness of
 paternalism.

 In the area of history of ethics, Cohen’s influential work on the positive role for emotions in
 Kant’s philosophy has debunked more orthodox interpretations prevalent in Kant scholarship
 which have Kant downplaying or denigrating the emotions. This work has also fed into our
 impact activities in terms of the role of emotions in moral education via Cohen’s work in schools
 (see Impact Strategy). Complementing this work, Cholbi’s Understanding Kant’s Ethics provides
 a useful systematic and critically engaged yet accessible overview of Kant’s moral philosophy.

 Our work on the Scottish Enlightenment has explored themes in both Hume’s ethics and his
 metaphysics and epistemology and has juxtaposed that work with contemporary research, in
 original ways. Gill’s Humean Moral Pluralism argues that the kind of pluralism more often
 associated with 20th century non-naturalists (especially Ross) can be found in Scottish
 sentimentalists like Hume and Smith, and that their sentimentalism provides a sounder
 metaethical framework for pluralism than Ross’s non-naturalism. Gill’s article on Shaftesbury
 explored how his conception of living your life as a work of art challenged the boundaries
 between aesthetic and moral value, winning ‘best article’ in the British Journal for the History of
 Philosophy. This focus on moral philosophy in the early modern period is complemented by the
 work of J. Marusic and Cottrell, which explores the metaphysics and epistemology of Locke and


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Hume respectively. Both have published important papers on these figures in Philosophical
 Review: Cottrell offering a novel interpretation of Hume on personal identity, and Marusic
 suggesting a new reading of Locke’s account of sensitive knowledge.

 Work in Ancient Philosophy includes Caluori’s path-breaking work on Plotinus, with his major
 monograph representing the first comprehensive study of Plotinus’s theory of the soul in over 50
 years. Kupreeva’s work on Aristotle, published in a prestigious German series, investigates the
 as yet understudied Aristotelian tradition in the Imperial period, from 1st century BC to the end of
 2nd century AD, with an overview of the early Imperial Peripatos (represented by Andronicus,
 Boethus and Xenarchus). Work in this area is highly interdisciplinary: Kupreeva and Caluori
 have regularly presented their work at conferences/workshops hosted by Classics departments,
 and Kupreeva gave an invited talk at the Oxford conference From Space to Spacetime,
 providing an opportunity to share her work with physicists as well.

 Philosophy of Mind. This cluster (Chirimuuta, Clark, Isaac, Lavelle, Sprevak, Treanor, Vierkant,
 and Ward) has produced highly original research on the philosophy of cognitive science,
 especially on the ‘4E’s’ – the idea that cognition is embodied, extended, enacted and embedded.
 Clark’s ground-breaking work has served to reframe predictive processing from a purely neural
 theory to a view of cognition as essentially embodied and socially embedded. Building on his
 earlier landmark defence of extended cognition, Supersizing the Mind (4,290 citations) and his
 paper in BBS, “Whatever next” (3,735 citations), Clark’s more recent book, Surfing Uncertainty
 (1,253 citations) has pushed this research programme forward. Clark’s work is widely credited
 with developing a new paradigm in cognitive science and has influenced a wide range of
 disciplines beyond philosophy, leading to innovations in industry, including consultancy work for
 Google and product design (see Impact Case Study). Ward’s research builds on this work,
 including through his article in Philosophy and Biology, which provides a powerful account of
 how enactivism can explain otherwise deeply intractable puzzles about the placebo effect,
 through viewing the mind, body and world as dynamically and inextricably entangled with each
 other.

 A second major theme is the computational mind and AI, with Sprevak’s research helping secure
 £83K for a cross-school project on AI and the international rule of law. The mind cluster
 collaborates closely with psychology and informatics through the Philosophy, Psychology and
 Informatics Group (PPIG), which hosts world-leading speakers in a bi-weekly cross-disciplinary
 research seminar. The appointment of Chirimuuta expands the horizons of this group. Her
 Outside Color draws together the history of philosophy, contemporary philosophy, contemporary
 neuroscience and vision science to develop a systematic theory of colour and its relationship to
 physical reality. The book has received critical acclaim not only in standard academic venues,
 but also in The New Scientist and The New Republic.

 Epistemology. Colleagues in this cluster (Chrisman, Maguire, B. Marusic, Pritchard, Schwarz,
 Smith, and Treanor) have produced influential work on intellectual virtue epistemology,
 ‘extended’ epistemology, formal epistemology, and at the intersection of epistemology and
 moral/social philosophy. Pritchard’s work on virtue epistemology has developed a novel
 approach to scepticism, in his influential Epistemic Angst. Pritchard has built capacity in this
 field, leading Edinburgh’s participation in the 4-year Marie Curie DIAPHORA network, which
 supported 2 PhDs analysing the nature of warrant. He led the Templeton-funded Intellectual
 Humility MOOC and Know Thyself MOOC. Smith’s work on different concepts of risk in relation
 to epistemic justification makes an important contribution to discussion of ‘lottery cases’ in
 epistemology and discussions of evidence in law. His work is achieving wider impact, with his
 “Why Throwing 92 Heads in a Row is Not Surprising” winning the prestigious Marc Sanders
 Prize for Public Philosophy.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research in this area has generated new insights by working at the intersection of ethics,
 epistemology and meta-epistemology. A particular highlight is B. Marusic’s 2015 Evidence and
 Agency: Norms of Belief for Promising and Resolving, which won the 2016 APA Book Prize for
 the best book published in philosophy of mind, metaphysics or epistemology in the analytic
 tradition in the previous 5 years. Marusic appeals to broadly Sartrean ideas of ‘bad faith’ to
 argue that we can sometimes rationally form beliefs which go against the balance of evidence.
 Chrisman’s The Meaning of ‘Ought’ investigates systematic connections between deontic and
 epistemic uses of ‘ought’ while Ridge’s “How to Be an Epistemic Expressivist” draws on the idea
 of ‘pragmatic encroachment’ to develop a novel argument for epistemic expressivism. This
 strand of research also connects with our history cluster: for example, Cohen’s “Kant on the
 Ethics of Belief” applies Kant’s Formula of Universal law in the epistemic realm, treating
 principles of belief formation and revision as analogous to maxims. Cohen argues that this
 framework allows Kant to rule out reasoning based on wishful thinking, prejudice and imitation.

 Language/Logic. The Edinburgh Philosophy of Language research cluster (Almotahari,
 Chrisman, Pickel, Rabern, Schoubye and Schwarz) has established itself as a leading centre for
 research on the philosophical foundations of formal semantics. Highlights in this area include
 work in the theory of proper names, with Rabern advancing a novel theory of ‘capitalized
 descriptions’ (such as ‘the Holy Roman Empire’) as being neither ordinary descriptions nor
 ordinary proper names; and Schoubye’s powerful theory of proper names as type ambiguous,
 with some of their uses surprisingly functioning as pronouns. Pickel’s work on the theory of
 propositions accommodates the compatibility of structured propositions with functional
 compositionality, an important result for some of the most central debates in the philosophy of
 language. This work is complemented Rabern’s novel take on the relationship between
 semantic content and assertoric content. The group was recently ranked joint second of UK
 departments in Logic/Language in the Philosophical Gourmet Report

 Ethics. The ethics cluster (Cholbi, Chrisman, Curry, Fletcher, Gill, Maguire, B. Marusic, Mason,
 Melo Lopes, Roberts, Ridge, Todd and Vallor) has further developed its contributions on
 metaethics and the theory of free will, while making strategic hires to develop strengths in
 political philosophy, normative ethics, the history of ethics and applied ethics. In metaethics,
 Ridge and Chrisman both have developed original and systematic alternatives to moral realism,
 with Ridge being at the forefront of the move to so-called ‘hybrid theories’ in meta-ethics, and
 Chrisman developing an original ‘inferentialist’ theory. Both Ridge and Chrisman published
 major books on these theories (Ridge’s Impassioned Belief and Chrisman’s The Meaning of
 ‘Ought’), which have been positively reviewed in major venues (e.g. NDPR, Journal of
 Philosophy, Ethics) and have played a defining role in further debates in metaethics. This work is
 complemented by the more realist-friendly work of Fletcher and Roberts, bringing a healthy
 theoretical diversity to this research group. Of UK departments, Edinburgh was ranked equal
 first (alongside Oxford) in metaethics/moral psychology in the most recent “Philosophical
 Gourmet Report”.

 The cluster has also made major contributions to the theory of moral responsibility. Mason’s
 book, Ways to Be Blameworthy, treats the theory of right action and the theory of responsibility
 in tandem, whereas they are usually analysed independently. Although only recently published,
 Mason’s book was the focus of a discussion on the prestigious PEA Soup ethics blog. Vierkant
 takes a more empirical approach to explain the role of will-power as revealed by recent empirical
 work in traditional debates over free will. Todd’s work on ‘future contingents’ develops a novel
 argument that all future contingents are false, drawing on analogies with Russell’s theory of
 failed definite descriptions, thereby making sense of an ‘open future’ amenable to his theory of
 free will.



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The cluster has also developed new areas of strength. Several of our recent appointments work
 in normative ethics (Cholbi, Gill, Maguire, Vallor), political philosophy (Cholbi, Maguire, Vallor),
 applied ethics (Cholbi, Gill, Vallor) and the history of ethics (Cholbi and Gill). A particularly
 notable new strength is medical ethics, with a focus on death and dying. Cholbi founded the
 International Association for the Philosophy of Death and Dying, which holds a major biannual
 conference, and Gill has done leading work on end-of-life care and decision making. Gill’s work
 draws on his experience working alongside professionals for an extended period of time in a
 paediatric intensive care ward (see his “PICU Prometheus” paper). Vallor’s appointment brings
 outstanding expertise in the Ethics of AI: her ground-breaking monograph, Technology and the
 Virtues: A Philosophical Guide to a Future Worth Wanting, develops a cross-culturally informed
 virtue ethics that she argues should inform thinking about issues raised by new technologies.
 The book has received critical acclaim in major outlets (NDPR, Kennedy Institute of Ethics
 Journal, Ethical Theory and Moral Practice). This strand of research is being developed in a new
 Centre for the Technomoral Futures, located in the Edinburgh Futures Institute and funded by a
 £5M investment. The Centre aims to unify technical and moral expertise in new models of
 research, education, design and engagement that directly serve the goals of sustainable, just
 and ethical innovation. Its current portfolio of activities, supported by an initial gift from the global
 investment firm Baillie Gifford, focuses on the ethical implications of present and future
 advances in AI, machine learning and other data-driven technologies. Fletcher’s work on the
 nature and value of well-being has focused on ‘objective list’ theories of well-being, redrawing
 the standard taxonomy of views in this area and developing a novel strategy for accommodating
 the advantages of desire-based views in an objective list framework.

 Philosophy of Science. The Philosophy of Science cluster has expanded further since 2014,
 encompassing wide-ranging research at the intersection of history, metaphysics, psychology,
 cognitive neuroscience, physics and biology (Clark, Chirimuuta, Isaac, Massimi, Schwarz,
 Sprevak, Vallor, Ward and Wolff). Massimi’s ERC Consolidator grant, Perspectival Realism
 (€1.6M) has developed a novel realist view which builds on the Kantian legacy and takes
 pluralism in science as its foundational premise. The project has involved field work with
 cosmologists at the Dark Energy Survey and physicists at CERN. 6 different articles resulted
 from this collaboration, 3 dedicated to understanding the nature of cutting-edge scientific models
 at play in contemporary searches for Beyond Standard Model particle physics and 3 focussing
 on the role of models and Bayesianism in contemporary cosmology. Massimi participated in a
 high-level panel to discuss the next generation Future Circular Collider and fed into science
 policy reports on the Economics of Big Science. For her interdisciplinary work, Massimi was
 recognised by the Royal Society’s Wilkins-Bernal-Medawar award in 2017. The ERC project has
 supported 2 early career scholars (McCoy and Cretu), 2 doctoral students (Jacoby and
 Spagnesi), and enabled fruitful interdisciplinary exchanges within the outstanding research
 resources existing in Edinburgh: the Higgs Centre for Theoretical Physics and the Royal
 Observatory of Edinburgh.

 Other members of this cluster have conducted high profile work at the intersection of philosophy
 of science and other disciplines, including Chirimuuta’s work in the philosophy of cognitive
 science and neuroscience, and Isaac’s work on structural realism and physical constants.
 Isaac’s work led to a 2019 interdisciplinary conference with world-leading historian of science
 George Smith and G. Manchin of the National Physical Laboratory, who has been at the
 forefront of redefining units of measure like ‘kelvin’. Philosophy of measurement/quantities is
 also central to Wolff’s book, The Metaphysics of Quantities, which sets out a novel position on
 the status of quantities – a form of ‘non-reductive restrictive realism’ according to which
 quantities are irreducible features of reality (rather than features of our concepts), implying that
 not all features of the world are potentially quantitative.



                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Philosophy of Race/Gender. The appointment of Curry and Melo Lopes has positioned
 Edinburgh as an international hub for work on the philosophy of race and gender. Curry’s highly
 original theorising on gender, race and racism, and extensive work on the phenomena of sexual
 violence against, criminalisation of, and abuse of Black males, created the field of Black Male
 Studies. His work on Africana philosophy offers a radical alternative to dominant Eurocentric
 frameworks. Curry’s monograph The Man-Not won the American Book Award in 2018, and his
 public intellectual work earned him the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy’s
 Alain Locke Award in 2017. In 2018 Curry was named by Diverse Magazine as one of the Top
 15 Emerging Scholars in the United States. In his latest work, Curry has applied his insights on
 the racialization of males to analyse the rape of Jewish men during the Holocaust (see his
 “Thinking Through the Silence”). Curry has also contributed to social scientific research on racial
 disparities in the context of COVID-19. Research in the cluster has benefited from close
 connections to social scientific and historical work on issues of race and decoloniality (e.g.
 Curry’s role on the steering committee of the cross-disciplinary Institute Project for Decoloniality
 discussed under Future Priorities below).

 Cholbi’s “Black Lives Matter and the Call for Death Penalty Abolition”, published in Ethics,
 generated considerable discussion on the prominent ethics blog PEA Soup, winning second
 prize for the ‘Best Original Discussion’. Melo Lopes’s work on patriarchy and backlash has
 provided a robust challenge to more orthodox conceptions of misogyny, arguing that a plausible
 conception must make sense of ‘meaning vertigo’ – a disorientation we feel when the
 characteristics we use to navigate our social world become ambiguous. Finally, McGlynn's
 recent work suggests that the tendency of existing literature to deploy tools from philosophy of
 language to understand the ways in which pornography influences beliefs and attitudes is
 misguided; given the dominant role of images (rather than words) in pornography, social
 epistemology provides a much more illuminating framework.

 Impact Strategy

 Edinburgh Philosophy is committed to research that contributes to public understanding and
 critical reflection. Our strategy has been to support the development of sustained impact
 activities across 3 main areas.

 1. Improving Educational Practice in primary and secondary schools, community colleges,
 special education units, prison educational units, and continuing professional development
 programmes in cultural organisations and businesses. This work draws on a wide body of
 research on virtue epistemology, enactivism, the role of technology in knowledge-generation, the
 role of the emotions in moral education, and philosophy of gender. For example, Ward’s work in
 Scottish schools and community centres has helped teachers appreciate unexpected ways in
 which cognition and perspective-taking are enactive processes involving bodily and sensory
 systems (a position he argues for in his Journal of Philosophy of Education paper). Similar
 impact projects have helped educators better use technological aids in the classroom (Clark and
 Pritchard, drawing on their research in extended cognition and extended epistemology), better
 understand the role of feelings and emotions in moral education (Cohen, drawing on her
 research on Kant on moral education), and reframe gendered approaches to the education of
 boys and girls (Mason, drawing on her work in feminist philosophy). For example, Pritchard’s
 AHRC funded Extended Knowledge project looked at extended knowledge in the classroom, in
 collaboration with colleagues at Moray House School of Education and local schools. Their
 collaboration led to a follow-on project also involving the Scottish Sensory Centre, exploring how
 students at local special needs schools, especially the Royal Blind School, use assisted
 technology to generate extended knowledge.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. Improving and informing decision-making in government, industry and major cultural
 organizations. Drawing on his research on free speech, Chrisman organised a conference with
 politicians, journalists, campaigners, activists and academics to draft a Charter for Responsible
 Public Debate, a series of public workshops at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, Edinburgh Festival
 of Politics, MilleniFest and a Learning for Sustainability workshop, and wrote an op-ed in The
 Scotsman discussing the charter. Drawing on his research on the extended mind, Clark worked
 as a consultant for industrial partners (Google, CyborgNest) to inform the development of AI in
 building design and the future of human/machine interactions. Clark’s research on distributed
 cognition also formed the subject of dedicated exhibitions at the Miami Science Museum and the
 Musée du Quay Branly in Paris. Sprevak worked with curators of National Museum of Scotland
 to explore how his work on the history of distributed cognition could change how items in their
 galleries are presented. The Talbot Rice Gallery worked with Sprevak to create a dedicated
 exhibition (supported by £100K AHRC impact funding) exploring how distributed cognition
 relates to contemporary art, producing a show with 28 artworks from 13 internationally renowned
 artists. As a result of Scaltsas’ research, the Greek government agreed to create a new type of
 museum of ideas sited inside Aristotle’s Lyceum, funded by €2.5M from the EU Innovative
 Projects Fund. Our early career researchers have also achieved impressive impacts. Watson’s
 (Leverhulme ECF) research exploring how to ask good questions has led to the launch of a
 consultancy business, Question First, which has advised educators (in UK primary and
 secondary schools), cultural organisations (Royal Scottish Zoological Society, Royal Botanic
 Gardens, Scottish Opera), and private-sector businesses (SalesForce, Success Methods) on
 strategies to promote intellectual virtues such as curiosity, open-mindedness, rigour, and
 respectful engagement with peers.

 3. Transforming public perceptions of philosophy through an extensive suite of MOOCs,
 public talks, festivals, shows, lectures, stand-up comedy routines, blogs, radio, TV and
 newspaper articles. These activities are driven by the ambition to convey current philosophical
 thinking and discourse to the public to change minds about the nature of philosophy and
 encourage reflective thinking. Most notable here in terms of reach are 2 research-led
 Philosophy MOOCs, which involved 23 permanent academic staff members engaging 568,392
 learners from 197 countries. These MOOCs have been very favourably reviewed, ranking #2 of
 all Humanities MOOCs in 2017. The success of the MOOCs led to the creation of further online
 initiatives, driven by department-specific strengths, including 2 online MScs (Philosophy,
 Science and Religion and Epistemology and Ethics and Mind), as well as 3 further MOOCs:
 Intellectual Humility, Know thyself, and Philosophy, Science and Religion.
 Our impact strategy has robust institutional support. Knowledge exchange and engagement to
 secure impact is treated as a core part of research, and Philosophy has extensive institutional
 resources to support and document it. A KEI strategic plan is agreed each year by the research
 committee, and individual philosophy staff members discuss their KEI activities and goals as part
 of annual review. The Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) Director for the School (Sprevak)
 is from Philosophy, and KEI is also supported by 5 professional services staff (see Section 1).
 PPLS has invested in 5 new professional support roles (a Knowledge Exchange Manager, a
 PURE, Impact and Open Access Administrator, a Communications Officer, and 2 Learning
 Technologists). This team has provided specialised support to researchers in planning activities,
 developing resources, liaising with external partners, and tracking impact. The School has also
 appointed 3 impact fellows over the course of the REF cycle who have provided critical support
 to specific impact projects. The Fellows built a network of teachers engaging with philosophy
 (OPEN Scotland), created an external-facing consultancy business to share philosophical
 expertise on critical thinking (Question First), and helped summarise Edinburgh research for the
 wider public (creating @Edinburgh summaries for our MOOCs). Staff and PG students have
 access to extensive training, including School and College-led training on media/policy


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 engagement. Grant applications are reviewed by the KEI manager to strengthen their Pathways
 to Impact, and a weekly KEI newsletter alerts staff and PG students to new opportunities. Impact
 activity is supported through a range of programmes at School and College level, with
 Philosophy KEI projects receiving over £20K in internal funding since May 2017 to support a
 wide range of activities. These institutions and practices have played a vital role in the
 development of our Impact Case Studies, and the wider impact activities detailed above.

 Open Research, Ethics and Integrity

 Edinburgh Philosophy recognises the global inequalities in access to scholarly research and
 believes research methods, data and outputs should be accessible, open and reproducible. In
 2018, the School invested in a post to support and sustain this commitment. The PPLS Open
 Access administrator promotes research visibility and open practices, going beyond compliance
 with funders' requirements, and is responsible for training all researchers. The School also has a
 Data and Open Research Coordinator, Professor Kenny Smith, who ensures academics are
 aware of and prepared to tackle discipline-specific challenges such as the self-archiving of
 monographs and the lack of Open Access platforms in philosophy. He is also responsible for
 implementing DORA guidelines and for informing the wider academic community of any changes
 in local and national Open Research policies. The School has established a strategic fund to
 ensure publication costs are not an obstacle to research visibility. Our Open Access policy goes
 beyond REF requirements in covering all articles, chapters and books (when publishers allow
 this) published since 2014. Our investment in support for Open Access has helped Edinburgh
 Philosophy achieve a 100% compliance rate.

 Most research in Philosophy does not raise the sorts of ethical issues monitored by ethics
 committees, but as a multi-disciplinary School, PPLS has a robust online ethical approval
 system which scrutinizes all research with the potential to raise ethical challenges. The School’s
 dedicated Ethics Convenor is available for consultation and to guide and advise research
 projects. The department also plays a leading role in shaping University policy, with Vallor
 chairing the University’s AI and Data Ethics Advisory Board, which develops University-wide
 guidance on data ethics for University researchers, ethics approval committees and programme
 leaders.

 Future Priorities

 Over the next 5 years, we will strengthen and consolidate our new areas of focus.
     ●    We will position Edinburgh Philosophy as an internationally leading hub for embedding
          philosophical insight into emerging industries and technologies. A key area for
          development is the Ethics of AI, led by Vallor’s Centre for Technomoral Futures. The
          £5M Baillie Gifford endowment will fund PhDs working in this area, starting with 5 for
          2020-2021, as well as a tenure-track Chancellor’s Fellowship in Philosophy. Other
          projects under development include Treanor’s collaboration with industry leaders in
          engineering and engineering education, and Chirimuuta and Massimi’s collaboration
          with the physical sciences.
     ●    We will strengthen research and impact in the area of philosophy of race and gender,
          with Curry, Mason, McGlynn and Melo Lopes exploiting strong synergies with the
          University’s new Race.ED and GenderEd networks, which bring together expertise
          across the social sciences, arts and humanities to shape public debate, policy and
          practice on race, racism, oppression and gender. Curry is on the steering committee for
          the Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities newly launched Institute Project for
          Decoloniality, which will spearhead interdisciplinary work in this area going forward.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     ●    Capitalising on the appointments of Cottrell, Gill and J. Marusic, and the University’s
          unique historical position, we will collaborate closely with scholars across the
          humanities and social sciences to make Edinburgh the world’s leading department for
          Hume and the Scottish Enlightenment. This includes reflection on Hume’s racism and
          its implications, and fostering public engagement through events and media
          engagement.
     ●    We will further build our research and impact in medical ethics and the philosophy of
          death/dying (Cholbi, Gill and B. Marusic), which we expect to become a more salient
          public issue given ageing populations. We will exploit the potential for collaboration on
          issues of ageing and dying with Medicine, AI, Social Science and Design through the
          University’s new Advanced Care Research Centre, established in 2020 through a £20M
          investment from Legal & General.


 2. People

 Over the REF period, Edinburgh Philosophy has been transformed by the recruitment of
 colleagues to 16 new posts, resulting in a cohort of 35 faculty (34.3 FTE), compared to 26 staff
 (23.6 FTE) submitted for REF2014. This expansion has been accompanied by a range of new
 measures to improve our approach to recruitment and to strengthen support for staff and PGRs,
 creating a vibrant, supportive and inclusive environment.

 Recruitment Strategy

 Our strong performance in grant funding and teaching over the REF period has enabled
 substantial investment in new staff. 3 main considerations informed our recruitment strategy: (1)
 attracting the most talented and innovative researchers; (2) achieving diversity in terms of
 gender, ethnicity and career stage; while (3) making particular efforts to attract applicants in
 exciting new areas where we have potential to make pioneering contributions to research and
 impact.

 To achieve these goals, we developed a more rigorous recruitment, selection and onboarding
 process, drawing on best practice at UK and overseas universities. Our positions were designed
 to appeal to a maximally broad demographic, and we provided extensive information at an early
 stage in the recruitment process about professional and personal support for staff, including
 family-friendly policies and support for dual-career couples. Our shortlisting process was multi-
 stage, with dedicated equity checkpoints to minimise implicit bias, and our on-campus interview
 process was significantly expanded to ensure a more holistic view of candidates and help
 candidates better understand our institutional structure, policies, people and culture. We also
 provided significant top-up funding for moving expenses and start-up costs, and enhanced
 immigration and family support, making our offer as attractive as possible and ensuring a
 smooth transition.

 These measures resulted in a range of appointments across career stages, with 4 chairs, 7
 Senior Lecturers/Readers, 3 Lecturers and 2 Chancellor’s Fellows (who transitioned into
 lectureships), and substantially improved the gender balance of appointees (7 women of 16).
 The appointments have also made our department more diverse, with 15 of our 16 new hires
 coming from outside the UK. 77% of our faculty are now from outside of the UK, representing 14
 different countries. We have also made significant progress regarding ethnic diversity (see EDI
 section below).



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Support for Staff

 Edinburgh Philosophy provides a range of support for staff, enabling colleagues at all career
 stages to achieve ambitious goals. Staff have 40% of their time ringfenced for research and 1
 semester research leave after 6 semesters’ service. 20 members of staff have benefited from
 research leave over the REF period, enabling the completion of book manuscripts, grant
 applications, and progressing fundamental research. Those occupying heavily administrative
 roles receive extra research allowance and additional leave eligibility. For example, Head of
 Philosophy and those serving as School UG, PG and Research Directors receive an extra
 semester of sabbatical after a 3-year term, plus an additional allowance of £2,000 a year for
 research. We have also created more time for research through improving the efficiency of
 teaching and administration. Those in departmental leadership roles are supported by a full-time
 executive assistant. Where possible, staff arrange their teaching duties asymmetrically between
 semesters, thereby creating focused time for research. We have also restructured our
 curriculum to support research-led teaching, with a division between 3rd and 4th year that makes
 more advanced topics suitable for our 4th year courses.

 The School provides robust support for promotions, including a draft promotion application
 stage, with detailed committee feedback. 13 members of staff have been promoted during the
 current REF period (5 to Senior Lecturer, 5 to Reader and 3 to Professor). Staff benefit from an
 annual review process that includes a formal meeting with a senior colleague to discuss the
 previous and upcoming years, and any professional development needs. The review meeting
 involves the discussion of research plans and support to implement them. New staff have
 reviews at 3 and 8 months to help them transition productively.

 Academic staff benefit from a range of resources to support research and KEI activity. Staff
 receive £800 per year to support research (including conference travel). Staff are eligible to
 apply for School funding for pilot projects which can serve as springboards for larger grants.
 Philosophy has taken advantage of this generous scheme 9 times this REF cycle. Notable
 successes that began as funded pilot projects include Isaac’s involvement in the Cambridge
 New Directions in the Philosophy of Mind project and Chrisman’s Foundations of Normativity
 grant. Substantial funding is also available at College and University Level, including the
 Challenge Investment Fund, offering £15K for innovative interdisciplinary projects (Sprevak was
 awarded support for a project on the ethics of AI in the battlefield). Philosophy has benefitted
 from 4 KEI grants from the College and School. For example, Cohen’s work in primary schools
 was supported by a College KE grant of £4.8K.

 We have introduced enhanced support for our new hires and ECRs. New staff and ECRs have
 reduced teaching loads and are allocated a mentor. The School has a dedicated postdoctoral
 research network, which liaises with other similar societies in the wider University and has a
 representative on the School Research Committee. Postdoctoral research staff and Teaching
 Fellows benefit from enhanced support for training, receiving more than £10K over the REF
 cycle to support training events. Growth in academic posts and externally funded postdoctoral
 researchers has reduced our reliance on fixed-term Teaching Fellows. We have also sought to
 expand support for Teaching Fellows, including through allowing them access to research
 support funds (see above).

 As our department has grown, we have fostered a collegial culture in which staff from across all
 areas of research and at all career stages regularly discuss and comment on one another’s
 work. This culture has been enhanced through bi-annual staff symposia, where colleagues
 present research to the department, and through speaker seminars, workshops, conferences
 and a wide variety of work-in-progress seminars. We recently added a work-in-progress ‘brown


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 bag’ session (now online) for staff which has been a forum for lively discussion of a variety of
 topics, with a focus on the work of newly appointed staff.

 Postgraduate Researchers

 Our postgraduate researchers are an essential part of our research environment, and over the
 REF period we have made significant improvements to how we recruit, support and integrate
 them into our community. These changes have generated increases in the numbers of oncourse
 PGRs and completions compared to the previous REF, with 73 completions (and 71
 enrolments), compared to 26 completions for REF2014.

 A key investment was to expand PhD studentships, through internal funding and securing a
 significant endowment. Internally, the School increased its annual spend on PhD fellowships by
 85%, funding both full fellowships (regardless of fee status) and top-up awards to make
 attractive offers to the strongest candidates. In this REF cycle we also secured 2 bequests from
 philosophy alumni, totalling almost £1M, which endow further recurring fellowships for research
 students. We have complemented this with 6 AHRC-funded Fellowships.

 We have also enhanced training and support. We introduced a weekly pro-seminar for first year
 PGRs and an advanced seminar for late-stage students. PGRs also develop their research skills
 by participating in our many reading groups, work in progress sessions (including a dedicated
 PG work in progress session) and other research activities. All our PGRs are formally reviewed
 annually, meeting with their supervisory team and the PG Director. These meetings evaluate
 progress and establish milestones, and when students near completion the review functions as a
 mock viva. Our PGRs take advantage of the training provided by the Scottish Graduate School,
 Arts and Humanities (SGSAH), for example in 2020 3 of our PhDs delivered papers at an
 SGSAH training workshop.

 Our research training is complemented by a programme of bi-weekly professional development
 seminars, offering practical advice about issues like preparing job applications or getting articles
 published. This training has supported PGRs in publishing in strong journals over the REF
 period, including American Philosophical Quarterly, Australasian Journal of Philosophy, British
 Journal for the History of Philosophy, British Journal for the Philosophy of Science, Mind and
 Language, Philosophical Studies, Philosophy and Biology, Review of Philosophy and
 Psychology, and Synthese. Our PGRs have won prestigious prizes, for example Anna Ortin
 Nadal was awarded the £1K annual prize for best graduate student essay from the British
 Society for the History of Philosophy. Our postgraduates receive funding and support from the
 School to organise high profile events. PGRs run the New Enlightenment Lecture, which brings
 a prominent woman philosopher to Edinburgh for a major public lecture each December, and the
 annual Spring Workshop on Diversity, devoted to equity issues in the profession, which has
 been running since 2012. Philosophy students launched the annual Mary Shepherd Philosophy
 Conference in 2015, focusing on addressing the systemic underrepresentation of certain groups
 (including women, racialised minorities and gay/transgender) in philosophy.

 Our PGRs benefit from generous funding for research activities. In this REF cycle, we funded
 postgraduates to attend conferences 163 times. As part of our broader Continuing Professional
 Development (CPD) activities, our Research Office supports applications for external funding,
 and 19 of our PGRs have secured competitive postdoctoral research fellowships across the
 world (with placements at Tsinghua University [China], University of Chinese Academy of
 Sciences, Kansai University [Japan], Dartmouth [USA], University of York [UK] and Ruhr
 University [Germany] in 2019-2020 alone). Our dedicated Knowledge Exchange Office offers
 KEI training to postgraduates and promotes University level KE/media training opportunities.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 53% of our PhDs in this cycle (39 out of 73 completions) have so far gone on to secure
 academic jobs. We equip PGRs for the job market through a programme of training and
 development seminars. When a PhD is ready to apply for jobs, we offer targeted help with
 applications and practice job talks. Our Student Experience Director and School Careers Advisor
 connect PGR students with alumni (in both academic and non-academic jobs) to better
 understand career development. We offer extensive training and support in teaching for our
 postgraduate tutors. In addition to formal training around tutorial delivery and marking, the Tutor
 Coordinator ensures that each tutor is formally observed each semester. A dossier is kept by the
 PG office to support reference letters. The department has a scheme to support tutors to gain
 the Edinburgh Teaching Award, an accredited route to Fellowship of the Higher Education
 Academy. These initiatives help maintain a strong PGR academic placement record (posted
 online). The academic placements of our PhDs include Birmingham, Bristol, Cologne, Cyprus,
 Edelstein Centre For the History of Philosophy, Science and Medicine (Jerusalem), Fudan
 University (Shanghai), Glasgow, Helsinki, MIT, Universidad de Talca (Chile), and Vienna.

 Philosophy works to involve PGRs in its KEI initiatives. All incoming PhD researchers receive a
 session on KEI and have access to School and College-led training on media and policy
 engagement. Students and ECRs receive training from the Philosophy
 Foundation/SAPERE/COP (Society for the Advancement of Philosophical Enquiry and
 Reflection in Education and Community of Philosophical Inquiry). Edinburgh’s Philosophy Think
 Tank, which involves a prize competition and YouTube channel, showcases the work of ECRs
 and PGRs. The School supports a student-led podcast run by 2 philosophy students.

 Equality and Diversity

 Edinburgh Philosophy values diversity and is committed to creating an inclusive environment
 and leading change in the profession. Over the REF period, we have supported diversity through
 improved recruitment practices, extensive support around equity and inclusion, and expanding
 the research agenda beyond the canon.

 We have extensively revised our recruitment practices, with root and branch changes to the
 process by which positions are conceived, advertised, shortlisted and filled, and to the support
 for new staff before they arrive in Edinburgh and upon taking up their appointment. These
 changes professionalise our recruitment process and reach out to more diverse communities of
 philosophers to ensure that we are reaching and attracting the strongest and broadest pool of
 candidates. This has led to much larger pools of candidates (608 in our most recent round),
 enabling us to make stronger and more diverse appointments. Specifically, it resulted in a 50%
 increase in the percentage of female appointments (from 5 in a cohort of 24 in REF 2014, to 7 of
 16 of the appointments made in this REF cycle), to achieve an overall representation of 34.3%,
 which is 13% higher than the UK average for philosophy departments (HESA 2018). Our
 approach also dramatically increased the proportion of staff who belong to ethnic minorities, with
 14.3% of current staff reporting BME status; this is proportionally higher than the UK population
 and more than double the UK average for philosophy departments (6.6%, HESA 2018).

 By formalising best practice, we have strengthened staff and student support and created a
 more inclusive culture. Through earning an Athena SWAN Bronze award and ongoing work to
 achieve Silver, we secured institutional support for a broad range of equity initiatives. This formal
 institutional support includes automatic 50% reductions in non-research workload for 1 semester
 for those returning from maternity leave; this was introduced in 2017 and 3 members of staff
 have benefited. The School introduced flexible working arrangements so staff can work around
 caring responsibilities, with 7 colleagues benefiting since 2014. We made significant
 improvements to the family-friendliness of research activity; for example, our main speaker


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 series and 3 cluster-specific seminar series were moved from evening hours into the working
 day. We also revised our workload allocation model to ensure that service tasks that fall more on
 women and minority philosophers, such as serving on hiring committees to ensure broad
 representation, are appropriately compensated. Since March 2015 we have been members of
 the BPA/SWIP Good Practice Scheme, implementing agreed guidelines around gender bias,
 conferences and seminar series, sexual harassment, staff-student relationships and support for
 caregivers. Compliance with Athena Swan and BPA/SWIP requirements, and continued
 enhancement of best practice, is ensured by a dedicated Gender Climate Convenor/Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion Director, who is a senior member of the Philosophy management team.
 We also organise compulsory annual training for postgraduate students, tutors and academic
 staff, focusing both on refreshing existing knowledge and exploring emerging EDI issues. Finally,
 we provide significant support to recurring annual conferences (described above) and to the
 Edinburgh Women in Philosophy Group (ca. £15k in this REF cycle).

 In line with the UoE REF 2021 Code of Practice, we have adopted an inclusive approach to
 defining ‘independent researcher’ and have embraced the decision to return 100% of eligible
 academic staff. We adopted a rigorous, fair and transparent approach to selecting outputs, fully
 accounting for staff special circumstances where these have affected research activity. The
 process took full account of E&D considerations, building in unconscious bias and E&D training.
 We also set up an independent E&D group to review the distribution of outputs across staff by
 gender and career stage, noting that we were unable to access accurate data on other protected
 characteristics because of the voluntary nature of the data and constraints on updating personal
 details. The result of this review demonstrated a balanced spread of outputs across gender and
 career stage: 27% of outputs were authored by female staff (who comprise 32% of our staff,
 including eligible former staff); 50% by SL/Readers (who comprise 55% of our staff) and 17% by
 Lecturers (who comprise 18% of our staff). Overall, 66% of our staff contributed 2 or more
 outputs. This indicates how our inclusive approach to research support has enabled staff to
 flourish across gender and career stages.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Grant Funding

 Edinburgh Philosophy has seen substantial growth in grant funding, with a fourfold rise
 compared to REF2014, from £1M to £4M. We have secured funding from a wide range of
 funding bodies, including AHRC, EU (European Research Council and Marie Skłodowska- Curie
 Fellowships), Leverhulme Trust, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and the John Templeton
 Foundation. Funding has been well distributed across staff, with 17 colleagues winning external
 funding across all 6 of our research clusters; and grant successes spread across early career
 (for example, Todd’s Free Will and Divine Foreknowledge project funded by Templeton (£96K))
 and senior staff (for example, Massimi’s Perspectival Realism ERC grant (€1.6M)). These grants
 have ranged from large collaborative projects (e.g. the History of Distributed Cognition project,
 AHRC (£600K)) to smaller projects, including both individual and network grants (including
 Living Organisms and their Choices funded by The Royal Society of Edinburgh, and the
 DIAPHORA Marie Curie (part of an international ITN European Training Network grant, c.
 €3.7M) respectively). Philosophy has also benefitted from the £5M Baille Gifford investment in
 the Centre for Technomoral Futures.

 An important element of our strategy has been supporting the development of larger grants
 through seed funding. Staff can apply twice-yearly for School seed funding for pilot studies and
 bid development (up to £3K). For example, Massimi’s ERC grant built on seed funding from the

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities, which funded a programme of workshops and
 conferences to foster collaborative partnerships across philosophy and the natural sciences,
 including on modelling and data in particle physics, and computational approaches to the mind.

 Grant funding has supported some of our most fruitful collaborations and KEI activities, such as
 Clark’s Expecting Ourselves project (£900K, ERC). Sprevak collaborated with Classics on
 History of Distributed Cognition (see above). Sprevak helped secure £83K for the pilot project on
 AI and government decision-making detailed in Section 1. Other grants underpin important KEI
 work; for example, Pritchard’s Intellectual Humility grant (£400K, Templeton) funded one of our
 MOOCs. Our broader online learning activities were also supported through a Templeton grant
 (£1.5M) which Pritchard secured in collaboration with Divinity. The grant supported the
 development of online learning, enabling us to recruit 2 postdoctoral fellows.

 These successes have been achieved with the support of a substantially expanded School
 Research Office, which has grown from 1.8 to 4.8 FTE. The Research Office provides
 professional advice to staff, matching ideas to funders and calls, advising on applications,
 preparing budgets and brokering internal peer review. This support is complemented by the
 University-wide Edinburgh Research Office (ERO), which offers specialised intelligence, training
 and guidance on funding, including disseminating funding opportunities, advising on funder
 terms and conditions, providing advice on impact, knowledge exchange and commercialization
 issues, and curating an extensive bank of successful proposals. ERO runs an events
 programme, including funder visits, interdisciplinary thematic networking meetings, and a
 learning and development programme.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Philosophy is located in the Dugald Stewart Building, built specifically for the department in 2011
 (ca. £42M). The design of the building was informed by extensive consultation with academic
 staff, and the architecture is intended to support both independent and collaborative research,
 with generous private offices with extensive natural lighting linked by abundant circulation,
 socialising and seminar spaces. Academic staff in Philosophy occupy 3 floors in this building,
 and there are multiple seminar spaces and small team meeting rooms embedded within the
 departmental fabric, as well as 2 rooms dedicated to hosting academic visitors. Over the past 5
 years, the University has invested a further £193K to accommodate our rapidly expanding staff,
 including through converting other space into new offices.

 The University of Edinburgh has one of the UK’s largest research libraries, with 2M print books,
 185K e-journals and 1.4M e-books and a dedicated Philosophy and Psychology library within the
 School with over 5K volumes. The department is a 5-minute walk from the National Library of
 Scotland, one of 6 legal copyright libraries in the United Kingdom, which has extensive holdings
 not only of archival texts but of contemporary academic works.

 Philosophy offers exceptional facilities and financial support for PGRs. Our PhD researchers are
 offered desk space, a MacBook laptop, a locker, and a swipe card giving them 24hr office
 access. They have generous administrative support, including free printing, copying and
 stationery, and they can apply to the School Research Support Grants scheme to attend
 conferences. PGRs can apply to the School Training and Development Fund for support for
 activities developing research skills. The latter supports student-led initiatives and community
 building amongst our PGRs. The School has its own PG Office staffed by 3 experienced full-time
 administrators, located on the same floor as the PhD office space.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Edinburgh Philosophy has made significant contributions to the research infrastructure of the
 discipline, spanning collaboration, engagement with wider audiences, editorial work, and work
 through learned societies.

 Collaboration

 We strongly support collaboration, both with interdisciplinary partners and with philosophers at
 other institutions. Over the REF period our grants have included 24 named academics from
 across 20 different Higher Education Institutions (HEIs). We have an official exchange
 agreement with Dartmouth College, and under its auspices we exchange staff every year. In this
 REF cycle, Massimi, Sprevak, Todd and Treanor made research exchange visits to European
 partner universities, supported by Edinburgh’s International Office and the Erasmus+ Scheme.
 Several members of academic staff (Isaac, Mason, Treanor, Wolff) were awarded visiting
 fellowships in this REF cycle at international universities. The University has also signed a MOU
 with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing, to support academic exchanges in
 philosophy and a major biannual conference. Many philosophers at Edinburgh engage in
 interdisciplinary research, most notably with psychology, linguistics, sociology, history, classics,
 law, politics, divinity and neuroscience. For example, Curry has co-authored with a sociologist,
 Chirimuuta publishes in neuroscience journals, and Rabern has co-authored philosophical logic
 papers with a mathematician and edited a major collection of papers with a team of linguists. In
 the current REF cycle our grant activity has involved partnership with 26 other universities and 5
 industry partners.

 Engaging with Wider Audiences

 Our KEI activities have built lasting collaborative relationships with educators, from pre-school
 through to higher education. Staff from across research groups have engaged with children
 through a series of early years sessions. Philosophy in the Playground focuses on pre-school
 and nursery children, parents, and workers (Mason, Vierkant, Lavelle, Sprevak). The department
 has links with local primary and secondary pupils with staff visiting to introduce ideas, methods,
 and discussion. In 2019, Mason was invited to advise Edinburgh Council on curriculum
 development in schools and their health and well-being project. Massimi’s summer schools with
 the local George Heriot’s School were showcased as part of the school’s successful bid for the
 Gold Award of the Society for the Advancement of Philosophical Enquiry and Reflection in
 Education, the first primary school in Scotland to achieve this for teaching philosophy in school.
 Ward instituted a professional development programme for secondary teachers in 2016 at Firrhill
 High School in Edinburgh. Sprevak developed a set of freely available teaching resources and
 teaching plans for online safety, based on his work on the Turing test (2017; 4 schools). The
 OPEN Scotland network, created by Watson, brings together philosophers and teachers from
 across Scotland to share resources and ideas, and has provided free Sapere P4C training and
 resources for teachers. We have influenced university education outside of philosophy and the
 humanities, for example through Treanor and Vallor’s collaboration with Edinburgh University’s
 Schools of Business and Engineering on a joint MSc degree that brings philosophical insight to
 bear on the management of major engineering projects. Philosophy also works with the
 University Widening Participation Team to support broader participation. We do this through
 engagement with an annual Sutton Trust summer school and workshops for the Widening
 Participation Team’s primary school programme. The Sutton Trust Summer School is a week-
 long event for high-school students from under-privileged families considering university.
 Through a series of talks, we give students an idea of what philosophy is like and the kinds of



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 subjects Edinburgh Philosophy offers. This work illustrates our emphasis on building enduring
 relationships and capacity for philosophy in schools to flourish and grow.

 Philosophy staff have influenced public discourse and understanding through multiple media,
 including television, radio, and public talks. Massimi appeared 4 times on BBC’s In Our Time,
 and has written for The Guardian, Aeon, La Repubblica, Sanlian Life Weekly, and Quanta. Staff
 have given public talks at festivals including How the Light Gets In, the Edinburgh Fringe
 Festival, the Dundee Science Festival, the Aberdeen May Festival, and the Edinburgh
 International Science Festival. These activities have included creative methods of dissemination.
 For example, Fletcher and Mason both did stand-up comedy routines as a vehicle for discussing
 their work with Fringe audiences. Fletcher has also appeared on STV’s The Late Show to
 discuss happiness and well-being, BBC4’s The Digital Human to discuss online vigilantes, and in
 2016 was invited to run a study evening on the Army Leadership Code for 3 RIFLES regiment in
 Edinburgh. Clark’s body of work on distributed cognition has been featured in high-profile media,
 including in-depth profiles in The New York Times and The New Yorker and PBS Radio (US),
 ABC Radio (Australia) and CBC Radio (Canada). Clark’s research has also featured heavily in
 articles on topical issues including the ethics of the FBI accessing smartphones (Slate), how
 memory works (The New York Times) and the future of Cyborgs and AI (Wired).

 We have built collaborative relationships with politicians, the media and social activists to help
 improve public dialogue. Chrisman has drawn on his work in political philosophy, philosophy of
 language and social epistemology to engage with the Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Young
 Academy of Scotland’s project on disagreement, debate and renewing democracy. He organised
 a one-day event in May 2019 with politicians, media, campaigners, activists and academics to
 share experiences and propose principles for drafting a Charter for Responsible Public Debate.
 This was followed up with a series of public workshops refining and promoting the charter at the
 Edinburgh Fringe Festival, Edinburgh Festival of Politics, MilleniFest and a Learning for
 Sustainability workshop.

 Editorial Work

 Our staff serve as editors on a wide range of journals, including Analysis, Boston Studies in the
 Philosophy of Science, British Journal for the History of Philosophy, Episteme, Ergo, Ethics,
 Journal for Sociotechnical Critique, Journal of the American Philosophical Association, Journal
 of Applied Philosophy, Journal of Ethics and Social Philosophy, Oxford Bibliographies Online,
 Metaphilosophy, Linguistics and Philosophy, Philosophy Compass, Philosophy of Science
 Philosophical Quarterly, Race, Social Theory and Practice, Synthese, Thought, and Utilitas.

 Learned Societies

 Several colleagues occupy positions in learned societies. Clark is a Fellow of the British
 Academy. Massimi is a member of the Academia Europaea, a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical
 Society, former (2015-2019) Vice President of the European Philosophy of Science Association,
 and president-elect of the Philosophy of Science Association. Clark, Massimi, and Pritchard are
 Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Chrisman is a member of the Young Academy of
 Scotland. Cohen is an executive member of The British Society for the History of Philosophy,
 Treanor of the Scots Philosophical Association, and Roberts (Mind), Rabern and Todd (Scots
 Phil Association) served on executive committees within this REF cycle. Cholbi is the founding
 member of International Association for the Philosophy of Death and Dying. Curry is the
 President of Philosophy Born of Struggle. Vallor is on the Board of Directors at the Foundation
 for Responsible Robotics (the Hague), and serves on the Ethics and Regulatory Working Group



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 for Scotland’s AI Strategy. Vallor served on 2 panels in the World Science Festival 2019,
 including one with Garry Kasparov and Turing Award winner Yann LeCun, NYC.

 Keynote Addresses and Prizes

 Colleagues have given 44 keynote addresses at major conferences in 17 different countries,
 including Cohen’s keynote at the International Kant Conference and Massimi’s keynote at the
 British Society for the Philosophy of Science. Colleagues have also been recognised with
 several prestigious prizes. Curry’s The Man-Not (2017) won the American Book Prize; Curry’s
 Another White Man’s Burden won the Josiah Royce Society’s Josiah Royce Prize in American
 Idealist Thought; Gill’s “Shaftesbury on Life as a Work of Art” won the ‘best article’ prize for
 British Journal for the History of Philosophy; B. Marusic’s Evidence and Agency (2016) won the
 Sanders Book Prize; Massimi won the Wilkins-Bernal-Medawar Medal for her work in the
 philosophy of science; Smith’s “Why Throwing 92 Heads in a Row is Not Surprising” (2016) won
 the Sander’s Prize for Public Philosophy; and Vallor won the World Technology Award in 2015
 for her Technology and the Virtues.




                                                                                             Page 17
