Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: Business and Management Studies (UoA 17)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since the last REF, the Business and Management division of York Business School has
 entered a new phase in its development. It is producing research of international excellence. It
 has created impact with key regional partners and has improved the research environment for
 staff and PGRs.

 REF2014
 In 2014 the Business and Management division at York St John University (YSJU) entered the
 Research Excellence Framework (REF) for the first time. A total of 6.5 staff FTEs, 24 outputs
 and two impact case studies were included in the submission. Overall performance in the
 REF2014 was modest and reflected its size and relative newness. Since REF2014, there have
 been significant changes in the way both the university and the division approach research. Key
 institutional changes include the granting of research degree awarding powers (RDAP) to the
 university and a greater emphasis on research in the university strategy. Key changes at the
 divisional level include a more strategic approach to research, resulting in improvements in
 governance, management, monitoring, and support. These changes have led to a cultural shift
 and tangible improvements in the quality of research in the division. Our research is focused,
 well-led and demonstrates clear indicators of success. Our current submission reflects our
 growing research achievements comprising 11.5 FTE staff with significant responsibility for
 research, 29 outputs and two impact cases.

 Context and structure
 The Business and Management division is now part of York Business School (YBS). Since 2014
 research focus and capacity within the division has significantly advanced as a consequence of
 key institutional changes at the university and school levels.

 At the university level, YSJU was awarded RDAP in 2015, an event that resulted in an important
 and lasting cultural shift. RDAP also provided the impetus to improve the structure and
 governance of research. The university created the new senior academic leadership post of pro
 vice-chancellor for research and knowledge transfer, who also serves on the senior executive
 and is chair of the University Research Committee (URC). It also established a dedicated central
 Research Office (RO). This new emphasis on research has been underpinned by the
 incorporation of ‘impactful research’ as one of three strategic priorities for the university
 (alongside inspiring learning and enabling students to be clear about careers).

 At the school level, the Business and Management division became part of the newly
 inaugurated YBS in 2018. As a result of this, administrative and academic Business and
 Management staff moved into the larger, recently built De Grey building. The improvement in
 facilities benefitted both academic staff and postgraduate research (PGR) students and provided
 premium and much-needed space for the growing research community (see section 3). The
 organisation of research in the school has been refined and improved since the last REF. The
 YBS research lead plays a pivotal role in providing leadership for the research community and is
 also a member of the senior management team, the URC and chairs the School Research
 Committee (SRC). The SRC provides liaison with the URC, as well as managing, monitoring and
 supporting research activity within YBS.

 A critical outcome of these combined measures has been the strengthening of the research
 culture within the division and improved research leadership and governance. The division’s
 focus has shifted from mainly teaching, to teaching balanced with impactful research. Research
 active staff have a commitment to and clear understanding of research quality, rigor, impact,
 ethics, equality issues and sustainability. Collectively these changes enhanced the research


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reputation of the division and have enabled the recruitment of high calibre research staff and
 PGRs.

 Research and impact strategy
 Strategy
 The review of the outcome of REF2014 led to a revised research and impact strategy with
 realistic and appropriate goals and performance indicators for YBS. The core aim of the revised
 research and impact strategy is to conduct quality, purposeful and impactful business and
 management research in a supportive environment. We recognise our special role in the city of
 York and the region and seek to develop research that is of national and global significance and
 that can be applied to regional issues. Four objectives underpin our current and future work on
 creating a sustainable research community.

 Objectives:
 • To conduct original, rigorous and significant research that is relevant to stakeholders of YBS
    and results in outputs of high quality.
 • To maximise the impact of our research by engaging in collaborative partnerships and
    focusing on measurable outcomes.
 • To develop a dynamic, fair and supportive research environment that operates on a
    sustainable basis.
 • To contribute to the operations and development of the Business and Management Studies
    research base and community.

 The strategic objectives are underpinned by five focused activities:
 • To recruit high-quality staff and PGRs.
 • To provide staff and PGRs with high-quality support, training and development opportunities.
 • To provide structures and systems to support research and ensure diversity and equal
    opportunities.
 • To develop regional, national and international networks and collaborations.
 • To further develop indicators of success to evaluate progress.

 In addition, the university drives implementation of the Concordat on Open Research Data and
 has Open Access policies to encourage an open research environment.

 This strategy ensures that research and impact of YBS is effectively organized, supported and
 monitored. The YBS Research Committee is responsible for the implementation and regular
 review of the strategy, while the achievements of the strategy are monitored by the YBS
 Research Committee and through individual staff appraisals.

 Staffing and recruitment
 The recruitment of research-active and high-calibre staff has been a key part of the turnaround
 strategy to build research capacity in the division. The YBS Staff Recruitment Strategy is
 underpinned by a set of overarching guiding principles: 1) attracting staff that are either at the
 leading edge of their field or 2) have the potential to make a significant contribution to knowledge
 through appropriate mentoring and development. YBS has a commitment to ensuring that 3) all
 staff recruited will already possess a PhD or be close to completion.

 Research and impact directions and highlights
 As part of its strategy to promote research of international significance with regional application
 and impact, YBS has expanded its engagement with the regional economy through a number of
 research-related activities. Following the appointment of Gammie as dean in 2016, YBS has
 strengthened its identity and role within the region. It is a key sponsor, participant and host of the
 annual York Business Week. YBS has a significant role in the York Top 100 Business Awards,
 for which it evaluates York’s most significant employers. This research is undertaken by a team
 of YBS staff and students and involves extensive analysis of financial reporting data. Since 2018
 YBS has accelerated its research business consultancy role through its work with local and


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international firms and anchor organisations operating across Yorkshire (see section 2). YBS
 also provides research-driven consultancy opportunities and placements for PGR students in
 addition to an expanded range of courses to prepare students for the world of work and to
 consolidate YSJU’s contribution to business in the city and beyond. These active outreach
 initiatives have enabled YBS to forge strong collaborative relationships with three significant
 regional anchor organisations: Visit York, Yorkshire and Humber Leadership Academy and West
 Yorkshire Police.

 Particular emphasis has also been given to developing an effective model to encourage impact:

 End-user engagement > Funding > Research > Publication > End-user adoption > Impact

 In contrast to the previous situation, where research outputs were often seen as the main goal,
 researchers are now encouraged to engage with end users at the planning stage in order to
 facilitate adoption of research findings. Our impact case studies reflect this approach, which is
 further supported by seed funding and professional development.

 Our activities sit under three core themes, each demonstrating research and impact of
 international significance and local relevance.

 Theme 1, The Visitor Economy and Experience, is relevant to international and national
 agendas. It has special relevance for York and its hinterland as a tourist destination, which
 generates substantial economic benefits, as well as sustainability issues that require careful
 management. This area of research activity is led by Paddison and Tribe. Currently four doctoral
 researchers are working on projects within this theme. In terms of engagement and impactful
 research, Paddison has an established, long-term working relationship with Make It York (a UK
 tourism organization) as a member of the Visit York visitor economy steering group since 2016.
 Paddison’s research-driven contribution to Visit York strategic plans are the basis for the
 “Improving Management Practices and Techniques in Tourism Destination Management” impact
 case study, part of our current REF submission. It demonstrates how internationally important
 research into public policy and strategy for destination management can be usefully applied to
 our local context. Furthermore, this impact case illustrates the benefits of our policy of early end-
 user engagement and shows how research findings have been adopted, bringing a significant
 improvement to strategic decision-making at Make it York. This research was also innovative in
 assisting destination management organisations in the UK and Spain to engage stakeholder
 groups (e.g., government, suppliers, residents) in the creation of public policy and strategy.
 Tribe’s tourism publications continue to be highly cited and influential in the tourism academy, as
 exemplified by his seminal article, “The Tourism Knowledge System”. Hall is a recent addition to
 the team as an early career researcher (ECR) producing research on wilderness and
 mountaineering tourism.

 Theme 2, Organisational Change and Futures, responds to the UK government call to
 unleash the Northern Powerhouse and level up the regions by offering important research
 findings and applications to support this agenda. This area of research activity is led by Gold and
 Boak. Currently there are four PGR doctoral students working on projects under this research
 theme. Gold drives two streams of research here. The first concerns organisational and cultural
 change through the methodological practice of action learning research. Notable projects include
 the non-executive directors (NEDS) Project led by Gold (Principal Investigator [PI]) to develop a
 competency framework for non-executive directors in Yorkshire and Humber Leadership
 Academy. Gold also developed and implemented an evaluation framework for health innovation
 projects for the NHS Leeds North Clinical Commissioning Group. In 2017–18 Gold commenced
 the Predictive Policing Action Learning Project conducted with West Yorkshire Police. This large
 action learning research project resulted in significant and impactful outcomes to improve
 organisational culture and performance within this police force. This project forms the second
 impact case submitted for the REF. Its action learning method further illustrates our policy of
 end-user engagement and the application of research to improve practice in a large regional
 anchor organisation. Gold also leads work on the Business Futures and Foresight Programme

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within YBS. In November 2019, Gold, working with the YSJU Institute of Social Justice, ran a
 series of workshops to develop scenarios for the year 2030 on the issues of poverty, housing
 and homelessness, employment and training, and health and social care in the York area. This
 work illustrates our efforts to involve diverse communities in our research. Boak’s research
 includes organisational change in team performance in health care.

 Theme 3, Ethics, Equality and Diversity, is the research theme that relates to the wider YSJU
 research focus on social justice and its Institute for Social Justice. It is led by Weir. Three
 doctoral researchers supervised by Weir are working on projects that engage with issues
 associated with ethical business practices. Further examples of research activity here include
 Weir’s work on Islam and business; on ethical issues related to auto-ethnography; and on
 women's work with Amal Al Kharouf of the University of Jordan. His research is being
 consolidated in a book on Islamic business that is to be published by Palgrave Macmillan. Dales
 is co-investigator within FLEXIS, a University of Leeds research project, investigating the
 sustainable management of supply chains. McIntosh has researched gender issues in nursing
 and the impact of student debt on biomedical research. Adams has researched ethical issues in
 HR management, natural resource exploitation and executive hubris. Hall’s research has
 considered gender inequalities in mountain leadership.

 The future
 The research strategy and research themes outlined above have proved to be effective in
 improving the quality of our research and will continue to inform the direction of research and
 impact in the next REF cycle, subject to regular review and updating. Our priorities will be:

 •   to grow our research effort at a sustainable rate.
 •   to improve our understanding of and progress towards inclusivity, equality and diversity.
 •   to extend and deepen our collaborative research networks.
 •   to increase research grant submissions and successes.
 •   to improve the integrity and effectiveness of each research theme.
 •   to be mindful of our research themes in the recruitment of new staff and PGRs.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 The YBS research staff strategy aims to recruit and retain a well-balanced team of effective
 researchers and offer focused support and development that is responsive to a diversity of
 needs. Since 2014 the Business and Management division has nearly doubled in size. It
 currently employs 44 members of staff (37.3 FTEs), of which 17 are lecturers, 21 senior
 lecturers, three professors, two associate deans and the head of Business and Management
 and YBS dean, Gammie. Our staffing strategy is to build upon our achievements in the current
 REF cycle and strengthen the division’s three core research areas.

 The staffing strategy aims to deliver research excellence through recruitment and retention of a
 team that is well-balanced between experience and potential. The recruitment of an experienced
 professoriate that can shape and grow our research and impact has been a priority since the last
 REF and we have been successful in recruiting key, high-calibre researchers at the leading edge
 of their fields. New professorial appointments Tribe, Gold and Weir support the division’s three
 research themes. All the professors were hired during the current REF cycle in order that the
 school had appropriate research knowledge and experience to strategically develop the
 research activity in their respective areas, and to provide an appropriate environment in which
 ECRs could develop. The leadership the professoriate provides has been central to developing a
 purposeful research environment that fosters research integrity and creativity.

 The professoriate has also played an important role in recruiting and mentoring of ECRs (five
 staff are ECRs and were recruited in this REF period). Our recruitment of ECRs is a strategic
 investment in research talent, focused on those who have the potential to make a significant
 contribution to knowledge and impact to our three research themes. Examples of ECRs who

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have benefitted from this strategy include Dales, Hall and Moisieiev. Additionally, YBS has made
 a substantial investment in up-skilling existing staff with research potential by offering them PhD
 opportunities. The number of staff with doctorates is now 28 (64% of the division). Seven
 academic staff members are also working towards or near completion of their doctorates.

 Staff training and development
 Staff have an annual personal development review (PDR), with research as an integral part.
 Topics discussed include reviewing progress, setting objectives for published outputs, research
 engagement (grant applications, PGR supervision, scholarship, knowledge exchange) and
 research development (external visibility, conference attendance, networking). YSJU is a
 signatory on the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which
 directly informs our staff development approach. Our centralised research CPD programme
 (over 40 sessions) is aligned to the four core Vitae competencies and recognises staff individual
 development needs while also acknowledging that a common set of requisite personal and
 professional skills are needed for success. CPD delivery is mainly delivered by our professoriate
 and by external speakers (e.g. Professor Mark Reed delivered our impact workshop). Our new
 open data repository service (RaYDaR) and research repository (RaY) will further increase the
 impact and transparency of research at YSJU and support researcher development.

 Currently the division employs five promising ECRs – Dales, Moisieiev, Hall, Holmes, and
 Usman. ECRs receive mentorship from the professoriate and experienced colleagues to support
 their career progression and skills development. The current CPD programme at YSJU includes
 training sessions targeted at the professional needs of ECRs. YSJU also offers a special
 scheme to reward and incentivize ECRs. After two years’ employment, highly productive ECRs
 can apply for promotion to senior lecturer under the accelerated promotion process coordinated
 by the Senior Lecturer Promotions Panel. The panel meets annually to consider applications for
 progression from lecturer to senior lecturer. Advancement is evidence driven and based on
 research contribution, outcomes, and impact criteria. In YBS, three staff have benefited from the
 accelerated route during this REF period.

 Research students (recruitment, studentships, facilities)
 Business and Management PGR students are an active and diverse group of UK and
 international students studying full- or part-time projects. Currently we have 15 doctoral students
 (seven full-time and eight part-time) and one MRes student. Three doctoral PGR students
 receive Higher Education Scholarships for Palestinians (HESPAL) and a further three receive
 York St John Scholarships. Since 2014, five doctorates have been completed, an outcome that
 is reflective of the recent granting of RDAP to YSJU. We aim to recruit well-qualified PhD
 candidates and to be sensitive to any additional needs. Our small size and modest PGR
 programme means that students are part of a caring, close-knit research community and feel a
 strong sense of identity and belonging.

  Business and Management Research Student Summary (2013–14 to 2019–20)
  Year       PhD FTE  PhD            PhD      Research-based PhD Completions
                      Headcount (FT           professional
                      and PT)                 doctorates
  2013–14    6        9              9        0               1
  2014–15    7.33     11             11       0               1
  2015–16    8        12             12       0               0
  2016–17    10.65    16             17       0               1
  2017–18    12.09    16             16       0               1
  2018–19    10.04    16             16       0               1
  2019–20    10.91    15             15       0               0

 Business and Management PGRs are all housed in an open-plan office in the dedicated YSJU
 Graduate Centre. PGR desk space is also provided in the Fountains Library and Learning
 Centre. The Library and Learning Service at YSJU includes hard and digital copies of key
 research resources with on- and off-campus access to online databases. Scholarly assistance is

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 delivered through the Library and Learning Service, academic liaison librarians, repository librarian and
 copyright and licensing officer. This begins during the PGR induction process and continues throughout
 the PGR development programme for PhD students. All PhD students receive one-to-one bespoke
 advice and support from their named academic liaison librarian.

 Research students (monitoring and training)
 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year (by Research Degree
 Committee). All supervisory meetings are logged. Supervisory teams are made up of multiple
 academic staff from the PGR student supervisory register. To be added to the register, staff are
 required to meet stringent criteria for PGR supervision eligibility pertaining to engagement in
 research, continual professional development and formal YJSU training. Endorsement from
 Heads of School or School Research Leads is also required. Applications are assessed by a
 central committee of senior research staff (again, by Research Degree Committee). It is
 mandatory that all supervisory teams have at least one member of staff with experienced
 supervisory status (have previously supervised a PhD student to successful completion). In
 addition, all PGR students have a PGR tutor who is available to provide support outside of the
 supervisory team.

 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that includes core and supplementary workshops at each year of study. Like
 our staff training programme, our PGT training programme aligns with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Core parts of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity,
 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright
 and Intellectual Property rights. These sessions are compulsory for all PGR students.
 A range of other central and local support is available to PGR students that include (1) access to
 centralised services (e.g. Student Services, Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services,
 Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900 (£450 part-time) to support travel and
 consumables associated with their research and professional development; (3) access to the
 YSJU Graduate Centre providing study space and remote access to a range of specialist
 software (e.g., AMOS, MPlus, Comprehensive Meta-Analysis); (4) opportunity to complete a
 postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve associate fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support provided by the School and Research
 Office and (6) various PGR events held throughout the year (e.g., Three Minute Thesis (3MT),
 Bake Your Thesis, and the annual PGR conference).

 The Business and Management division has a long-standing weekly seminar series in which
 PGRs and staff, internal university collaborators and external academics are invited to share
 their research. The series is advertised campus wide and showcases the ongoing research in
 YBS and with linked organisations. It provides further opportunities for our PGR students to
 engage with a range of current research projects.

 Equality and diversity
 UoA17 sits within a broader context of support for equality and diversity at YSJU which has
 implemented several initiatives which ensure policies and practices relevant to researchers are
 inclusive, equitable and transparent. This is formalised in the YSJU Equality, Diversity and
 Human Rights Policy and the targets within the YSJU 2026 strategy (e.g., 10% BAME student
 and staff population; all staff are engaged in equality and diversity training and development
 appropriate to their role; median gender pay gap below 10%; 95% of staff think the university is
 a good place to work). Equality impact assessments are a routine part of annual monitoring and
 progress towards YSJU targets are reported to executive board and the governing body on a
 yearly basis. Of additional note, YSJU is a member of the Athena SWAN Charter (and is
 currently applying for a Bronze Award), a Stonewall Diversity Champion (ranked 49th place on
 the 2020 Top 100 Employers list) and Top 20 Trans employer, a Disability Confident employer,

                                                                                                     Page 6
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     and a Mindful Employer. There are also several active staff networks available for staff to join
     that align with these awards and this agenda including the LGBT+, BAME and Disability staff
     networks.

     Managers of researchers are effectively trained in aspects of equality, diversity and inclusion,
     wellbeing and mental health. Senior leadership and staff across the division are proactive in
     sustaining a positive, collegiate working environment that strives to achieve freedom from unfair
     treatment, discrimination and harassment for all those who study, work and engage with the
     institution. The professoriate plays an important role in mentoring and supporting the
     development and trajectory of female researchers at both ECR and mid-career stage.

     In addition to online resources on equality and diversity provided for permanent and fixed-term
     staff, newly appointed staff complete mandatory e-learning modules covering equality and
     diversity. Members of recruitment panels complete unconscious bias recruitment training and the
     recruitment and appointment process is monitored to ensure that the process is fair and
     equitable and to identify gaps.

     Supervisors and PGR pastoral tutors utilise the Equality and Diversity Resources Moodle page
     to raise awareness amongst PGR students. The university offers specific leadership
     development opportunities, including coaching and mentoring, to women and Black, Asian and
     Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff on the Diversifying Leadership programme, as well as to women via
     the Aurora Developing Women in HE Leadership programme and the North East and Yorkshire
     Action Learning Sets for Women; one member of staff is currently participating in the Aurora
     programme.

     Some specific examples illustrating good practice in inclusivity, equality and diversity include:
     • Three recent appointments to lecturer were women (Hall, Johnson, Walker-Smith), of which
       one is a PGR and another an ECR.

     •   20% of our research outputs come from BAME researchers.

     •   We have a PGR cohort from the Middle East and have ensured that their English
         language/literacy needs (and those of other PGR students) are supported by allocated,
         skilled library staff.

     •   As the YBS representative on the YSJU Race Equality Charter Self-Assessment Team,
         Dales is championing the school’s engagement with the application process and is
         progressing the delivery of actions coming out of the process within the school.

     •   Female researchers are supported in “breaking the glass ceiling” within YBS and have been
         promoted to positions of responsibility, with Dales recently appointed to school research
         knowledge transfer lead.

     •   The research findings of our Ethics, Equality and Diversity group (Theme 3) are shared with
         the school.
•
•    Research staff who have returned from maternity have been supported through a range of
     measures including flexible working patterns and provision of professional development and
     training that had been missed due to periods of leave.

     We recognise that, as with the university sector more generally, there is a need to proactively
     challenge structures that sustain entrenched privileges and hierarchies. The process of
     improving upon existing measures that support equality, diversity and inclusivity is continuous. It
     is a process that the division will pursue going forward through actions including:




                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Subject areas identifying targets for decolonising the curriculum (an activity facilitated by
        the university’s submission to the Race Equality Charter).

    •   Increasing diversity of the professoriate at YBS through new appointments.

    •   The formation during 2021 of a formalised equality and diversity action plan for
        implementation throughout the forthcoming REF202X cycle.

 Wellbeing initiatives
 YBS is committed to providing a working environment that promotes employee wellbeing and
 good health. A range of central YSJU policies, networks and employee benefits supports this
 aim, including Care First, an independent leading provider of professional employee support
 services.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Internal research funding
 Internal funding has been used to accelerate specific research trajectories. At YSJU there are
 three internal funding sources. Two of these – the research development and innovation fund
 (RDIF), and the Students as Researchers scheme – are centrally administered by the RO. The
 RDIF works across schools to promote interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research activity.
 School-based quality-related (QR) funding is the third funding stream and is divided into four
 categories: research capability funding, research project and collaboration funding, grant
 preparation funding, and impact and public engagement funding. This REF period saw
 researchers within the division receiving funds from internal income to seed fund research
 activities and develop impact. Income from the Students as Researchers Fund has contributed
 to an innovative approach involving PGRs on research projects and providing assistance to
 academics. Each of the research themes – The Visitor Economy and Experience, Organisational
 Change and Futures and Ethics, and Equality and Diversity – have productively engaged
 students as researchers. Staff members who are undertaking doctorates at YSJU and at UK
 universities also receive research funding from YSJU through funding support for doctoral
 course fees.

 External research income
 During the current REF period there has been a change in emphasis for generating research
 income within Business and Management at YSJU. Previously research funding was mainly
 generated from internal sources. However, progress has been made towards expanding external
 funding sources and achieving long-term sustainability of research. The research strategy now
 emphasises the importance of research bidding and income generation for research-active staff.
 Support for external bidding is provided through the central RO, the CPD Programme and by
 mentoring from successful colleagues. The total external research income generated during
 the current REF period reached £213,977, a marked increase on that generated in the REF
 period up to 2014 (£1,758). Of the external funding received, 98% of external income came from
 UK central government sources.

 Academics within the Organisational Change and Futures research theme received substantial
 project grants during the current REF period. The 2015–16 NEDS Project directed by Gold
 received £18,000 to develop a competency framework for non-executive directors in Yorkshire
 and Humber Leadership Academy. In 2015–17, £100,000 was received from the NHS Leeds
 North Clinical Commissioning Group for Gold to develop and implement evaluation framework
 for health innovation projects. A further £91,000 was received during 2017–18 from the Home
 Office Police Innovation Fund as part of the project “More with Less: Authentic Implementation of
 Evidence-Based Predictive Patrol Plans” with West Yorkshire Police, in which Gold led an action
 learning research project to improve cultural acceptance of predictive policing technology. In
 2016 Waehning received a Scottish Universities Insight Institute grant (£20,000, not reported as
 research income on the Higher Education Statistics Agency [HESA] return) to examine
 Scotland’s craft beer sector. Funding was also received via the YSJU Institute of Social Justice

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for a policy-based Business Futures project led by Gold.

 Infrastructure
 Infrastructure supporting research and impact within Business and Management has improved
 significantly due to the reorganisation of research management and support facilities within the
 university. The university has pursued the strategic expansion of, and investment in, estates,
 facilities and resources to create a significantly more modern and research-enabled institution.
 For example, notable infrastructure improvements include the move to the state of the art De
 Grey building for YBS in 2017. This offered big improvements, including the bringing together of
 staff and the provision of space and facilities conducive to effective teaching and research.
 Postgraduate provision is provided in the Graduate Centre.

 IT resources and training are regularly reviewed and updated so that research needs are fully
 met. Library and Learning Services have expanded their support and provision for research.
 Their capital investment in information resources has risen by 44% in the REF period, ensuring
 facilities and resources are appropriate to enable research at all levels. This has resulted in a
 substantial increase in available journal titles. They provide structured support and advice for
 PGRs. They enable open research through open access and research data management
 policies and the provision of repositories for research outputs and data, which exceed current
 open access requirements for REF2021.

 We have benefited from a new central RO, which includes a head (1.0 FTE) and 5.15 FTE staff.
 The RO is responsible for overseeing research governance and compliance, supports grant
 applications, manages PGR student experience, coordinates staff research training and
 monitors research performance. This has relieved academics in the UoA of substantive
 administrative duties associated with research supervision, allowing us to maintain a high-quality
 experience as we expand our PGR cohort numbers. The RO directly improved the quality of
 support for research grant applications, as evidenced in the increased number, range and type
 of the UoA’s grant applications.

 The new Business Development and Knowledge Exchange Office (BDKEO), which includes a
 director (1.0 FTE) and 13.5 FTE staff, supports schools in increasing the range and scope of
 applied research, business development and knowledge exchange and is our main conduit for
 impact and public engagement. It helped gain accreditation for Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
 (KTPs) and registered YSJU with Innovate UK, as an approved KTP knowledge base deliverer.
 It was integral to YJSU achieving Silver Watermark accreditation from the National Co-ordinating
 Centre of Public Engagement (NCCPE).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration and engagement
 YBS has encouraged researchers to extend collaborative research and deepen engagement
 with end users through support mechanisms, focussed funding and mentoring. InCites data
 confirms our progress here, showing that, comparing the current with the previous REF period,
 international collaboration papers have risen from three to 23, UK collaborating institutions from
 11 to 22 and international collaborating institutions from four to 15. Successful research
 collaborations include interdisciplinary projects with seven UK universities (e.g., Glasgow and
 Leeds) and seven international universities (e.g., SKEMA Business School, France, and the
 University of Jordan). By way of illustration, Weir has been working with the Sheikh Khalifa
 Government Excellence Program (UAE) with Professor Mohamed Zairi, Prime Minister’s Office,
 UAE, and the Business Excellence Institute, Ireland, on organisational excellence and Paddison
 has worked with the University of Seville, Spain, on visitor experience research.

 An important and effective engagement activity mentioned previously is through the annual York
 Business Week, a well-supported platform for disseminating and sharing knowledge between
 regional enterprises and their stakeholders. Furthermore, in 2020 YBS overcame the obstacles
 of the COVID-19 pandemic and hosted the annual Tourism Education Futures Initiative (TEFI)

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 global conference in virtual mode via Teams, with over 50 attendees joining from Australasia,
 Brazil, East Asia, Europe, India and North America. This forum enabled educators from different
 countries to share and apply cutting-edge research in tourism education. Other fruitful
 engagement activities include Gold’s work with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and West
 Yorkshire Police and Paddison’s collaboration with Visit York.

 Contribution and recognition
 YBS researchers have been active in contributing to the vitality of their disciplines including at
 the highest levels and have received recognition for their scholarship. Tribe is internationally
 recognised as having made a particularly notable contribution to the development of tourism.
 YBS researchers have shown a strong commitment to supporting our subject journals: twelve
 staff are regular peer reviewers for over 35 journals, with Boak receiving the Outstanding
 Reviewer Award from the Leadership & Organization Development Journal in 2017. Staff are
 represented on the editorial boards of ten journals. Three editorships or subject editorships are
 or have been held by staff in this REF period, including editorship of the flagship 4* tourism
 journal, Annals of Tourism Research. Active support towards learned societies include the
 Geographies of Leisure and Tourism Research Group and the Royal Geographical Society. An
 important contribution has been made by staff through their service on the scientific committee
 of the prestigious Chartered Association of Business Schools’ Academic Journal Guide. The
 international reach and influence of YBS researchers is evidenced by the fact that of the 23
 keynote conference presentations made, 20 were international, including those in Brazil,
 Australia, India and Hong Kong.

 Recognition of individual YBS researchers include the following:
 McIntosh: technical advisor to the Shadow Minister for Health, Mr Miles Briggs (Scottish
 Parliament); Outstanding Paper in the 2016 Emerald Literati Network Awards.
 Dales: Honorary Research Fellow, School of Environment, Education and Development,
 University of Manchester.
 Gold: Best Paper at the Human Resource Development Conference in 2017.
 Paddison: best paper in Academy of Marketing, 2016 conference track.
 Tribe: Visiting Research Fellowship, University of Queensland, Australia, 2015 and 2016;
 Distinguished International Visiting Academic Fellowship, University of Newcastle, Australia,
 2016; International Conference on Tourism Lifetime Award for Achievement in Tourism
 Research, 2016; Fellow of International Academy for the Study of Tourism; Fellow of the
 Academy for the Social Sciences.
 Weir: Foundation Fellow of the Leadership Trust; Companion of the Chartered Institute of
 Management; Best in Management History Track; awarded the Halloran Prize; Best Paper,
 Academy of Management Proceedings.

 In conclusion, since the last REF the turnaround research strategy of YBS and the Business and
 Management division has created a more structured, supportive and enabling environment,
 developed a more vibrant research culture and empowered a well-led research team who have
 significantly improved research successes and impacts in and beyond academia. This progress
 also provides a solid foundation for the future.




                                                                                             Page 10
