Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 13: Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Kent School of Architecture and Planning (KSAP) is a socially engaged, innovative school
 located within the Division of Arts and Humanities. Since its launch in 2005, KSAP has rapidly
 established a solid reputation for research, ranking 8th equal for Research Intensity in REF2014.
 In strengthening urban sustainability activities, the School expanded into Planning in 2018, now
 comprising 15 researchers (13.4 FTE) and a thriving postgraduate community. The sharp increase
 in our research capacity is a key success of this REF cycle, which has included the first graduates
 from our PhD programme, with 21 completions. The enhancement of our research culture has
 been supported by a 484% increase in research income since REF2014, as well as prestigious
 awards for both senior staff and ECRs (e.g. H2020 Industrial Doctorate, EPSRC, and ESRC
 responsive mode grants, and AHRC and Leverhulme fellowships).

 KSAP’s three research centres champion the core areas of our research activity:

 Centre for Research in European Architecture (CREATe). This centre focuses on architectural
 history, theory, and urban design. It has particular expertise in the history of modernism in Britain
 and Germany; early modern architecture in Europe; integration of critical knowledge with creative
 work; early Byzantine construction and conservation; sacred architecture; and feminism.

 Centre for Architecture and Sustainable Environment (CASE). This centre brings together
 researchers working in sustainable design and urban resilience. It has particular expertise in
 building performance and urban climate; the history of environmental design; post-occupancy
 evaluations and comfort across different operational and historical contexts; resilience planning;
 and urban agriculture.

 Digital Architecture Research Centre (DARC). This centre focuses on creative uses of digital
 technologies for design and fabrication within the built environment. Its members focus on
 generative design and computational creativity; digital fabrication and robotics; and digital
 visualisation and mixed reality.

 Research Strategy 2014-20
 Key research objectives in the REF2021 period were: (i) consolidating our research centres and
 formal collaborations with external stakeholders, HEIs, and other organisations; (ii) developing a
 new research area in Digital Architecture; (iii) creating a PGR community; and (iv) establishing the
 School as an agent for change and impact in the region, nationally, and internationally. These
 objectives have been achieved as follows:

 (i) Consolidating our research centres and external collaborations
 Through our research centres, KSAP has been successful in gaining external funding for 21
 projects, with over £1 million in income from research councils, trusts, and other bodies; an almost
 fivefold increase compared with REF2014 (£207,081). Our research centres have also contributed
 to the discipline with 21 books and edited volumes, 74 book chapters, 90 peer-reviewed journal
 articles, 107 peer-reviewed conference papers, and five creative outputs in the census period.
 This has been achieved through various mechanisms. We have used QR funding to: (i)
 strategically support the development of large grant applications via five incentivisation awards;
 (ii) support international visiting academics; and (iii) fund open access, public engagement, and
 impact-focused activities. Internal peer review, along with Individual Research Planning meetings,
 appraisals, effective use of a transparent Work Allocation Model, and ECR development
 workshops, has underpinned these successes, and has resulted in eight promotions since
 REF2014. The initiatives of the research centres are described below.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    CREAte plays a key role in informing design and regulatory and conservation practices via
    partnerships with the 20th Century Society, Canterbury Archaeological Trust, and Civic
    Societies. It organises a diverse range of public engagement activities, including open lectures,
    presentations to amenity societies, Pugin celebrations, Open House Rome, and creative
    lighting projections enhancing the quality of the environment. The Centre has organised four
    bi-annual international conferences, disseminating excellence in architectural research:
    Riverine (2014); Writing Buildings (2016); From Building to Continent (2018); and Connections:
    Exploring Heritage, Architecture, Cities, Art, Media for Design (2020).

    CREAte has secured funding from the Paul Mellon Centre, British Academy, and Leverhulme
    Trust. External fellowships have fostered extended collaborations with Dumbarton Oaks at
    Harvard and the British School of Rome. CREAte contributes to the sustainability of the
    discipline through the MSc in Architectural Conservation and MA in Urban Design.

    CASE has received significant income from EPSRC, ESRC, and AHRC, as well as through
    awards from TSB/Innovate UK, Heritage Lottery Fund, H2020, the House of Commons, and
    consultancy contracts with local stakeholders, including SMEs and Canterbury Cathedral.
    These enabled the support of five postdoctoral researchers and three international research
    visitors.

    The Centre engages closely with stakeholders outside HEIs, as exemplified through the long-
    term secondment to the House of Commons and the H2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie ITN-
    European Industrial Doctorate. It also collaborates with partners beyond academia on live
    projects, enhancing impact (e.g. Dalby Square in Margate, Palace of Westminster) and
    disseminating excellence in research through co-organised international conferences (e.g. with
    the Royal Academy of Engineering-Frontiers of Engineering for Development, 2017; the CIBSE
    Heritage Group and Historic England, 2018; the Construction History Society, 2018; Social
    Farms and Gardens, the association representing UK community gardens and city farms,
    2019).

    CASE has developed significant laboratory infrastructure and simulation software through a
    £100k investment, and hosts the MSc in Architecture and Sustainable Environment and the
    new MA in Urban Planning and Resilience.

    DARC was established in 2019 and has already received funding from Canterbury Cathedral,
    independent clients, and the University, and co-organised the 2020 Connections: Exploring
    Heritage, Architecture, Cities, Art, Media for Design international conference. Its members
    launched the MSc in Bio Digital Architecture, and host the established MA in Architectural
    Visualisation.

 The outward nature of KSAP has greatly supported interdisciplinary work and activities, as
 evidenced by collaborations across the Faculties (now Divisions), with KSAP members in the
 Centre for Heritage, hosted by Kent Law School; Kent’s Interdisciplinary Centre for Spatial Studies
 (Anthropology), and the Kent Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Cyber Security (Computing).

 Such collaborations have resulted in important partnerships across Kent, including major
 dissemination events such as the 2014 CREAte ‘Writing Buildings’ Conference with English.
 Nikolopoulou was on the steering group of the AHRC network ‘Pre-Columbian Tropical Urban Life:
 Placing the past in designs for sustainable urban futures’ (UoA29). CASE collaborated with
 Psychology on the HLF-funded project to refurbish a Victorian townhouse for climate change and
 intergeneration living. The project, in Margate, received extensive press coverage from local and
 national outlets (see Section 4).

 (ii) Developing a new research area in Digital Architecture
 The development of Digital Architecture was a key priority in our 2014 strategic plan. It was
 realised in three key ways: (i) the strategic appointment of Ireland (January 2016) and other staff
 (see Section 2); (ii) the establishment of the Digital Architecture Research Centre (2019); and (iii)

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a £180k strategic investment in new laboratory infrastructure and resources. This included laser
 scanning, drones, robotic arms, 3D printing facilities, oculus and VR headsets, and a dedicated
 lab technician (Soosaipillai). DARC has already secured external funding, co-organised an
 international conference, and is contributing to the sustainability of the discipline through two PGT
 programmes (see above).

 (iii) Creating a PGR community
 Creating a sense of community has been key to enhancing the performance and development of
 our PhD cohort. In the current REF period, our first PhDs have graduated. We have achieved 21
 completions (one by publication), with 31 PGR students currently registered. 37% of our PhD
 students (19) have been funded via scholarships. This includes internal scholarships, two
 prestigious H2020-MSCA-ITN-EID, four AHRC-CHASE (Consortium for the Humanities and Arts
 South East England), one EPSRC, and two GCDC (Global Challenges Doctoral Centre)
 scholarships. PhD funding has been received from the Egyptian Ministry of Defence, the Academy
 of Athens, Philadelphia University-Jordan, and Turkey’s Ministry of Education.

 Interdisciplinary supervision is a particular strength of our research culture. We have co-
 supervised with colleagues from Arts, the Centre for Higher Education, Engineering and Digital
 Arts, English, History, Religious Studies, and Social Sciences. We have a dedicated schedule of
 research seminars and training events. All PGRs are members of our research centres. Mentoring,
 and participation in research grants and proposals further enhances PGR employability and career
 development (see Section 2).

 (iv) Establishing the School as an agent for change and impact in the region, nationally,
 and internationally
 This objective is discussed under the Impact Strategy below. At its heart is our research aim to
 address professional, environmental, and societal needs. It involves close links and collaboration
 with professional bodies and associations, amenity societies, cultural institutions, local
 government, SMEs, and other stakeholders. Our research, supported by a range of public
 engagement initiatives, aims to have a lasting impact through: understanding buildings in different
 contexts and improving their environmental performance; influencing important heritage
 refurbishment activities (from domestic buildings to UNESCO world heritage sites); climate change
 adaptation and resilience; and influencing conservation and planning.

 Future Development and Strategy
 Our central aim is to ensure the ongoing vitality and sustainability of our research environment,
 while leading developments in new thematic areas and impacting positively on the regional
 economy and development. To achieve this, we will:

 (i) Further enhance the work of our research centres, which show a strong synergy with the new
 University Signature Research Theme on ‘Environment, Food Systems, and Natural Resources’,
 which Caputo co-developed. Such cross-University initiatives will foster new collaborations and
 interdisciplinary research. KSAP is part of the University-wide Institute of Cultural and Creative
 Industries (iCCi), in line with the updated Kent Cultural Strategy, ‘Inspirational Creativity:
 Transforming Lives Everyday’. iCCi is a key element in Medway’s strategic repositioning as a
 Creative City, building on the University’s longstanding strengths in the creative and cultural
 industries. Working with iCCi, KSAP, through DARC, will champion digital design, visualisation,
 and creativity, supporting SMEs and public engagement initiatives. This will in turn enable DARC’s
 growth. KSAP is also engaging with Creative Estuary, a £4.3 million Cultural Development Fund
 project focused on the Thames Estuary Production Corridor, where Bagaeen will engage with
 planners and other partners to contribute to and influence policy in planning.

 (ii) Expand our research specialisms in design-based research. Building on KSAP’s experience
 with design-based research, and as part of our inclusive ethos, this will extend the dialogue to staff
 whose investigations are predominantly developed through practice. We will also launch a Project
 Office, aimed at establishing partnerships with research beneficiaries, ensuring engagement and

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outreach with civil society, and making design and technical skills available for participatory
 projects addressing local issues.

 (iii) Expand the PGR research culture. We will sustain recruitment of high-quality PGRs and
 investment through a continuing focus on securing scholarships and on training. Capacity-building
 doctoral studentships and further tailored training initiatives supporting their development as
 researchers will be given. KSAP is engaging with doctoral training partnerships (e.g. the recent
 success of the H2020-MSCA-ITN-EID) and competition for scholarships (four scholarships
 secured last year), which will remain a priority to ensure the sustainability of our research
 environment.

 Impact Strategy
 As highlighted in Research Objective iv, a strategic aim is to establish KSAP as an agent for
 change and impact, and to address professional, environmental, and societal needs. This is fully
 aligned with the University’s strategy for Public Engagement with Research. It is achieved through
 extended networks and collaborations with professional communities outside HEIs, including
 professional bodies, amenity societies, local government, and third sector organisations.
 Together, they offer organised and publicised access to large non-academic audiences,
 enhancing visibility and providing pathways to impact. These collaborations take different forms:

 (i) Working with external stakeholders as partners in research projects. Examples include: CIBSE,
 GLA, LCCP, and various industry and SME representatives working on the EPSRC ‘Urban Albedo’
 project; the Palace of Westminster’s centrality to Schoenefeldt’s AHRC fellowship; Caputo’s
 collaboration with Social Farms and Gardens (ESRC); and the Austrian Frederick and Lillian
 Kiesler Private Foundation (Ireland).

 (ii) Impacting on policy and practice as members of steering committees. Key examples include:
 Brittain-Catlin’s contributions as a member of Historic England’s national Advisory Committee;
 Bagaeen’s work as a Trustee of the Town and Country Planning Association and the Royal Town
 Planning Institute; Nikolopoulou’s membership of the CIBSE Guide A Steering Committee; and
 Schoenefeldt’s contributions to the CIBSE Heritage Group. Specific contributions to professional
 guidelines include: Brittain-Catlin’s contribution to the English Heritage ‘Introduction to Heritage
 Assets’ on Nineteenth and Twentieth-Century Convents; Watkins’ contribution to the CIBSE Guide
 A chapter on ‘External Design Data’; and Nikolopoulou’s co-authorship of the chapters on
 ‘Environmental Criteria for Design’ and ‘Health Issues’ (CIBSE Guide A).

 Research activities are combined with public engagement and dissemination activities through
 conferences, talks to professional bodies, amenity societies, cultural institutions, contributions to
 professional guidelines, consultations with local government, and experiments and walks for public
 understanding of science and the built environment. Funding from the University (over £25k for
 research, impact, and public engagement activities, with £5,900 awarded from the Global
 Challenges Research Fund) have enabled impact-generating activities (Brittain-Catlin, Caputo,
 Cardellicchio, Fontana-Giusti, Fox-Godden (PGR), Haney, Karydis, Vasilikou (PDRA), Watkins).

 KSAP has used KMTV, the local Kent TV station, to showcase one of our impact case studies,
 through a series of interviews with different stakeholders involved with the ‘Restoring the Palace
 of Westminster’s C19 ventilation system’ project.

 The impact achieved by research in KSAP goes beyond that documented in the two impact case
 studies, in terms both of significance (social, environmental, cultural) and reach (national and
 international), varying from recovering the knowledge of lost palaces of London Strand (Guerci),
 to Victorian terraced houses (Nikolopoulou, Renganathan, Watkins), to the ageing of recent iconic
 structures (Cardellicchio), and the digital reconstruction of historic structures (Griffin).
 Sustainability, refurbishment, and heritage are themes also underpinning the two impact case
 studies; Informing planners and architects on the design and conservation of historic settlements
 (Karydis); and refurbishment of a UNESCO world heritage site and one of London’s most
 significant public buildings, the Palace of Westminster (Schoenefeldt).

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Shaping policy and professional practice forms an important part of our Impact Strategy, as
 evidenced through development of guides (see above) and the School’s impact case studies.
 Workshops, competitions, and debates provide additional pathways, along with the extensive
 range of public engagement events, as highlighted in Section 4.

 Future priorities for impact will focus on heritage, sustainability, and urban resilience. These will
 be enabled through: (i) KSAP networks and collaborations with professional communities,
 associations, and other external stakeholders; (ii) the University Signature Research Theme on
 Environment; and (iii) iCCi and Creative Estuary, which will enhance collaborations with strategic
 partners such as the Creative Industries Federation and Nesta.

 Open Research Environment
 All staff are required to publish open access. As a minimum, journal publication outputs are
 published through the Green Open Access route, and a version of all articles are deposited in the
 Kent Academic Repository. For UKRI-funded outputs and beyond, the university has funded six
 article-processing charges for Gold Open Access.

 KSAP’s Research Committee leads on the development of the research strategy for open
 research data. Members of the School have pioneered open access data (EU FP5: RUROS
 project) and are keen to ensure transparency and access to data informing future research.
 Appropriate data storing and sharing agreement is in place, complying with GDPR Regulation
 (EU2016/679). Data sharing, not subject to IPR openly accessible for use in other research
 projects or for meta-analysis, is already forming a deliverable in the H2020-MSCA-ITN-EID
 ‘SOLOCLIM’.

 Research Integrity
 All research activities and data collection undertaken in KSAP follow strict University procedures
 and guidelines, in line with the University’s Research Integrity: Code of Ethical Practice for
 Research policy. Research and data collection undertaken by staff and PGRs involving human
 participation requires approval at School and Divisional level, with formal structures and training
 in place for this. Additionally, to comply with the GDPR Regulation (EU2016/679), all staff are
 required to undergo training to ensure appropriate handling of data and databases.

 2. People

 After a period of strategic growth between 2010 and 2013, KSAP has spent the last six years
 consolidating staffing expertise and development. Whilst our numbers have slightly increased
 since REF2014 (from 11.4 to 13.4 FTE), our primary focus has been on growing Digital
 Architecture and Planning as areas of strategic priority. This has been achieved through the key
 appointments of Ireland (2017) and Buš (2018), to lead the development of Digital Architecture,
 launch DARC, and introduce the MSc in Bio Digital Architecture. The appointment of Bagaeen as
 Professor in Planning (2018) both enabled the development of the new MA in Urban Planning and
 Resilience, and marked a step change in our research activity on climate change adaptation and
 resilience, along with the appointment of Visiting Professor Steve Quartermain CBE, the outgoing
 Chief Planner of the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government. Succession
 planning around planned retirements further strengthened our research expertise around this
 priority area, and in 2018-19 we appointed researchers with expertise in green infrastructure,
 urban agriculture, and social sustainability (Caputo, Gillick).

 KSAP is strongly committed to equality and diversity, and our staff base is international, with 13%
 BAME staff at different career stages (comparable to 17% nationally for the sector [AdvanceHE
 2020 report]), and representation in key roles, including research centre directors and the KSAP
 REF team. Equally, female staff have held key leadership positions during the census period. The
 Director of Research (2014-19), REF Coordinator, Associate Dean for Graduate Studies (2015-
 20), Athena SWAN lead (2019-), and Deputy Head of School (2019-21) are all female, reflecting
 our aim of ensuring gender balance across key roles. Achieving gender balance is a priority for

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School. Although there are currently only six female staff (two E&R contracts), we have
 achieved a 50%-50% female/male ratio at Professor level. Recruitment is carefully monitored
 across all levels, and at least two female staff are included in all interview panels. This has seen
 positive results, with four of the five PDRAs appointed being female (one BAME).

 The five fixed-term PDRAs, created through the expanding research base and external funding
 for projects, have made an important contribution to KSAP’s research profile. Kotopouleas and
 Schoen are working on the EPSRC ‘Urban Albedo Computation in high latitudes locations: an
 experimental approach’ (2017-21) and the ESRC ‘FEW Meter, an integrative model to measure
 and improve urban agriculture’ (2018-21) projects, respectively. Other PDRAs in the census period
 have included Rueda de Watkins (2018-19) on the HLF ‘Dalby Square’ project (2015-19); Martin
 on two EPSRC projects (2014-15); and Vassilikou on EPSRC and AHRC projects (2015-16).

 Staff Development Strategy
 Our staff development strategy recognises staff needs at each stage of their careers. This is
 underpinned by our adherence to the seven principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, as well as the University’s renewed 2017 HR Excellence in
 Research award, which acknowledges our adherence to the principles of the European Charter
 for Researchers and Code of Conduct for their recruitment.

 Research career mentoring and planning is provided through two mechanisms. The annual
 appraisal is a space to discuss research within the context of career and succession planning,
 promotions, and School priorities. The annual Individual Research Planning meeting focuses on
 current and future research, and project and publication goals, in the context of the Research
 Strategy. Beyond these formal meetings, the Director of Research plays a key role in supporting
 research development through ongoing informal mentoring and guidance for all staff.

 Peer support and development is central to our research culture, and all staff are encouraged to
 take advantage of University support and development opportunities. These include the
 programme of training and development offered by the Graduate and Researcher College, Grants
 Factory workshops, funder-specific workshops and mock panels, and the annual University-wide
 Impact Week.

 Time for research is crucial, and this is provided through a dedicated weekly research day during
 term-time and the provision of term-long study leave after seven full terms. In 2015, the School
 also revised its workload allocation model, increasing the time dedicated to research by 10% to
 40%.

 In addition to the strong support and opportunities available to all staff, our EDI strategy ensures
 additional support to emerging researchers, ECRs, and new colleagues, comprising:

    •   All new ECRs have KSAP mentors.
    •   All ECRs gain a Post-Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (PGCHE) within two years
        of appointment and are allocated a PGCHE mentor.
    •   ECRs are monitored by a three-year formal probationary system, with annual reviews
        overseen by the probation supervisor and the Head of School.
    •   All ECRs are encouraged to engage with the programme of events and workshops offered
        by the ECR Network. This provides tailored support on the challenges of being an early
        career researcher, through regular talks and workshops (e.g. career planning, coping with
        rejection) and opportunities for peer-mentoring.

 The success of our support for ECRs and new colleagues is evidenced in the promotion of six
 ECRs from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer since 2016. In addition to the support detailed above,
 colleagues applying for promotion are given targeted promotion mentoring with a senior member
 of staff. The School Promotions Panel also ensures transparent and constructive support and
 advice on promotion applications. The impact of this support is evidenced by eight promotions

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during the current REF period (compared to three in REF2014); six to Senior Lecturer, one to
 Reader, and one to Professor. There is also potential for colleagues to advance at an accelerated
 rate, and this is reflected in Schoenefeldt’s promotion to Senior Lecturer in 2016, and to Professor
 in 2020.

 As part of our EDI strategy, the School Promotions Panel is required to include BAME and female
 members, alongside the School's Athena SWAN lead. The SPP reviews all staff and offers
 mentoring to those staff who either have not submitted an application, or not been promoted, in
 the last five years. Inclusivity is also fostered in the School appraisal process, with 50%
 female/male split of appraisers.

 Colleagues on Education, Scholarship, and Professional Practice (ES&P) contracts are
 encouraged to engage with research through a range of initiatives designed to support them in
 transitioning to research contracts if they wish to. These include mentoring, internal funding,
 reduced teaching load, and research leave. ES&P colleagues are fully included in the range of
 research activities within the School. This includes attendance at Research Committee meetings
 (Bothwell, Griffin, Street-Tarbatt), contributions to research projects (Bothwell), and leading on
 public engagement (Griffin).

 Staff development is also supported through additional training at different levels and EDI-
 monitored across all initiatives. Three female members of KSAP have participated in internal and
 external leadership training programmes in the current REF period: Nikolopoulou (LASR and
 INSIGHTS), Fontana-Giusti (Senior Academic Leadership), and Street-Tarbatt (Aurora).
 Additionally, all KSAP staff on the REF team have undergone training for EDI and unconscious
 bias. The School has implemented an evidence-based and transparent REF process, following
 the University Code of Practice, and the work of female colleagues is prominent in the submission.

 The School follows a policy of substantive fixed-term appointments for parental leave cover.
 Where additional entitlement has been accrued, an application for one term’s study leave can be
 supported immediately upon return to work, enabling women to re-engage with research. This is
 available to all staff irrespective of contract (actioned in 2018-19 for Street-Tarbatt). The School
 makes use of timetabling constraints to enable all academic colleagues to work flexibly, with
 meetings held in core hours only.

 Research Students
 The University provides a rich and stimulating environment in which research students are not
 only beneficiaries but also key contributors. Our first doctoral students completed their PhDs in
 2014, and since then a total of 21 students have graduated (13 female, 8 male), many funded
 through various internal and external sources. The School currently has 31 registered research
 students (16 female, 15 male).

 PhDs             2013/14   2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20    Total
 awarded             1         5         1         1         3         4         5
                                                                                          21
 by publication                                              1

 Funding secured by PGRs includes three through the CHASE AHRC-funded DTP, 10 Vice-
 Chancellor’s Scholarships for GTAs, one Alumni Scholarship, and two Global Challenges Doctoral
 Centre students. KSAP has also entered into cotutelles with our Erasmus partners: the University
 of Rome Tor Vergata and the University of Lille (one scholarship each).

 As part of our drive to improve diversity and equality both within the academic field and within the
 architecture profession, we carefully monitor EDI. In recent scholarship rounds, we have seen
 significant success in this respect, with four of the five scholarships being given to female
 candidates (one BAME) in the final round, despite overall gender balance across applicants.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting Research Students
 Bespoke training is available to our PGR community. The recently secured H2020-MSCA-ITN-
 EID ‘SOLOCLIM’ enables a strengthening of the PGR cohort, through collaborations with peers in
 partner countries, co-supervisions with practitioners, and bespoke training on monitoring and
 modelling of urban environments. This complements existing offerings through wider University
 consortia (CHASE, SeNSS, Eastern ARC) and the Graduate and Researcher College (GRC),
 which deliver postgraduate research funding and training. Other bespoke training by KSAP has
 included: the CHASE (AHRC-funded) workshops ‘Mapping Narratives’ (2016, co-organised with
 the British Library); ‘Sensory Theory, Methodology and Experience' (2016, co-organised with
 UoA29); and the recently acquired CHASE Cohort Development Fund ‘Digital Landscape: Space,
 Sound Form and Morphology’. Additionally, competitions for placements at non-HEIs are available
 through CHASE, secured by Damiani for a three-month placement in Bibliotheca Hertziana Rome
 (2020).

 Cross-disciplinary PG research is encouraged not only between the research centres, but also
 between different Schools where appropriate. Since 2014, 11 KSAP students have been co-
 supervised by the Schools of English, Arts, History, Law, Religious Studies, Engineering and
 Digital Arts, the Centre for Heritage, and the Centre for the Study of Higher Education.

 Research students are closely integrated into KSAP’s academic and intellectual life. They have
 been involved in the organisation of the CREAte Biennial Conference (2016, 2018, 2020). A
 programme of weekly PGR Research Seminars and coffee meet-ups is scheduled every term,
 providing students with the opportunity to present and discuss their research. They are also
 involved with the Open Lecture Series organised by the research centres, where EDI is also
 monitored. This provides an effective stepping-stone for presenting at national and international
 conferences. To support PGRs in doing this, KSAP provides a personal research budget of £500
 for three years, amplified through application to the Division’s ‘top-up’ fund.

 PhD students benefit from a range of student-facing activities offered by the GRC through the
 Researcher Development Programme. Architecture PGRs submit research posters to the annual
 Postgraduate Research Showcase; these are subsequently incorporated into the KSAP End of
 Year Show. PGRs are also encouraged to apply for the Postgraduate Experience Awards (up to
 £1,500 per student) offered by the GRC. These provide PGRs with the opportunity to gain funding
 to run an event or project with interdisciplinary and/or external focus, enhancing the postgraduate
 experience at Kent. In 2014, Chatzipoulka won this award, using it to run the Postgraduate
 Interdisciplinary Conference Home|Less. CASE has led the way in involving PGRs with funded
 research projects both directly and indirectly in applications for funding. Beneficiaries of this
 include Chatzipoulka, Hirbod, Tsichritzis, and Yeninarcilar (who is conducting his research on the
 EPSRC ‘Urban Albedo’).

 All research students on University scholarships (GTA) are contracted to do a limited amount of
 undergraduate teaching, while all research students are given the opportunity to teach, supported
 by mentoring and the opportunity to enrol in the Associate Fellowship Scheme (AFS). PGR
 representatives sit on the School’s Graduate Studies Committee and the research centre
 meetings, ensuring that their experiences and views shape research policy.

 KSAP has also supported external PhD graduates by encouraging applications for honorary
 research fellow status at Kent (da Silveira Hirashima, Brazil; Jackson, Australia; Wang, China).
 International visiting PhD students have also registered at Kent as Visiting Training Fellows,
 contributing to successful completion of their PhD theses (Rojas Fernandez, Spain).

 In the current REF period, this thriving, inclusive research environment and support for our
 postgraduate students has contributed to their career development in academic and other
 professional pathways. The majority of our graduates have taken up positions in HEIs in the UK
 and abroad as academic members of staff (e.g. Vasilikou at Reading; Piga at Coventry; Adaji at
 the University of East London; Adekunle at Hardford (USA); Berstrand at Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool;


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Badiee at Blinn College, Texas; Shuayb at the American University of Beirut; Mahdy at the Military
 Technical College of Egypt), or PDRA positions (e.g. Chatzipoulka at Fribourg; Kotopouleas at
 Oxford Brookes). Other professional paths include consultancy (e.g. Hirbod at Kingspan; Gana at
 Hilton Hotel; Amadei at the British Council), local authority (Dimitriou), or freelance specialists
 (Lesser, Tsichritzis, Weston).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External research income has grown very significantly since REF2014, from £207,081 to
 £1,004,473. We have also significantly increased the proportion of staff with externally funded
 projects (from 27% to 75%). These include nine UKRI-funded projects, H2020, two Innovate UK,
 two Leverhulme Fellowships, as well as grants from the British Academy, Paul Mellon Centre,
 British School of Rome, and smaller grants from Heritage Lottery, consultancies, and
 secondments. This growth has been driven by the consolidation of our research centres around
 key strategic areas and the extensive package of mechanisms that we have put in place to support
 grant applications, including:

    •   Support for applications from two dedicated research offices, at School and at University
        level.
    •   Support from the University’s Knowledge Exchange and Innovation team, liaising with
        stakeholders outside the HE sector.
    •   Peer mentoring and detailed feedback on applications from the KSAP Director of
        Research.
    •   Individual Research Plans, appraisals, and internal peer reviews, providing a supportive
        environment for the development of ambitious grant applications.
    •   Seed funding – a notable example is a pilot study funded by the Division, leading to
        Schoenefeldt’s successful AHRC Leadership Fellow application, ‘Restoring the Palace of
        Westminster’s nineteenth-century ventilation system – between sustainability and heritage’
        (2016-18).

 Colleagues at all levels are encouraged and supported in developing funding applications.
 Successful ECR projects include Gillick’s BA project on ‘Making-Unmaking-Remaking Home in
 Lockdown Margate' and Schoenefeldt’s AHRC fellowship. Examples of large-scale EPSRC
 funding, predominantly in the thematic area of sustainability, include: (i) ‘Urban albedo
 computation in high latitude locations: an experimental approach’ (2017-21; Nikolopoulou,
 Renganathan, Watkins; EPSRC contribution: £328,570); and (ii) the £150k Digital Economy
 ‘Communities and Culture’ Network+: Cultural Heritage and Built Environment (2012-16). The
 latter funded a series of smaller projects on social sustainability, which included projects on
 community-led regeneration and activism in Margate with local stakeholders, and a scoping study,
 ‘Mapping the lived experience of food bank clients and volunteers’ (Nikolopoulou with the PDRA
 Martin). This provided the opportunity for Martin to work on ‘Mapping for Change’ through a
 secondment at UCL on ‘Street mobility and accessibility’ (2014), funded by the EPSRC Digital
 Economy, ‘IT as a Utility’ Network+. Other key examples include the ESRC ‘The FEW-meter: an
 integrative model to measure and improve urban agriculture (2018-21) (Caputo; £197,243).

 Significant fellowships in architectural heritage include Schoenefeldt’s AHRC Leadership
 Fellowship, ‘Restoring the Palace of Westminster's nineteenth-century ventilation system –
 between sustainability and heritage’ (2016-218; £187,068). The success of the project led to
 Schoenefeldt being invited by the House of Commons to undertake research for the new
 Conservation Management Plan, aimed at enshrining the preservation of the historic
 infrastructure within the conservation policy (2017-18; £15,500). It subsequently led to a long-
 term secondment to the House of Commons for ‘Informing the Palace of Westminster
 Restoration and Renewal Programme’ (2018-21; £127k). Other major fellowships include: (i)
 Cardellicchio ‘Our Future Heritage: conservation issues of contemporary architecture in
 Rome’ (2017-18, Leverhulme); (ii) Haney’s 'The Gardening State: Landscape Architecture and
 Agriculture under National Socialism’ (2014-15, Leverhulme); (iii) Guerci’s Paul Mellon Mid-
 Career Fellowship, ‘Great houses of the

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strand: the ruling élite at home in Tudor and Jacobean London’ (2015-16); and (iv) Karydis’
 Balsdon Fellow for ‘The Lost Gateways of Rome’ (2019) at the British School of Rome.

 Another notable project is the Heritage Lottery Fund (Thanet Heritage Initiative) ‘Exemplar Climate
 Change Project, for the sustainable refurbishment and extensive monitoring of a heritage
 townhouse in Dalby Square, Margate’ (2015-17, 2018-19). This was led by Nikolopoulou with
 Watkins and Renganathan, building on earlier building performance evaluation studies. The
 extensive laboratory infrastructure and monitoring equipment have been integral to the successful
 delivery of these projects.

 Our strategic aim to strengthen our PhD cohort has been the driving force in securing PGR
 funding. This includes the second round of the AHRC CHASE Doctoral Training Programme, a
 collaboration with Goldsmiths, the Courtauld Institute of Art, SOAS, Birkbeck, UEA, Essex, and
 Sussex; and the H2020-MSCA-ITN-EID ‘SOLOCLIM’ (2019-23), a collaboration with Wageningen
 University, Milan Polytechnic and international architectural practices and consultancies (Zinco
 Green Roofs, Arcadia, Foster & Partners, Carlo Ratti Associates).

 Nearly £80,000 QR funding has been invested in support of dissemination, networking activities,
 and small research initiatives. This has enabled our three research centres to organise their annual
 visiting lectures programme. Additionally, 13 Category A staff have received over £25,000 of
 competitive University funding to support the development of research projects, the visiting scholar
 programme, and public engagement. The University APC fund has also supported open access
 publication of six outputs: (£10,083 to Buš, Caputo, Nikolopoulou, Schoenefeldt).

 Internally funded projects and events are diverse, reflecting the thematic areas of the three
 research centres. The Digital Humanities Fund supported Ireland’s ‘Realising Frederick Kiesler’s
 Endless House’, a project in collaboration with the Frederick Kiesler Foundation in Vienna, aimed
 at developing a 3D digital model of the physical model produced by Kiesler (2019). GCRF funds
 supported a workshop on ‘Co-designing Green Infrastructure in Informal Settlements’ in Morro de
 Formiga favela, Rio de Janeiro, in collaboration with Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro
 (2019, Caputo and Bagaeen). The EU Partnership Fund enabled Cardellicchio to attend a
 workshop in Maastricht to develop research collaborations; and the Divisional Fund for
 Collaborative Research and Visiting Experts enabled Nikolopoulou and Chatzipoulka’s (PGR) to
 collaborate with Professor Compagnon at the Ecole d’Ingénieurs et d’Architectes de Fribourg
 (2014).

 The Memorandum of Understanding signed between the University and Canterbury Cathedral has
 also supported research activities. Via this MoU, DARC was permitted to scan the external fabric
 of the Cathedral to produce a rendered point cloud image as a large backdrop. DARC used digital
 fabrication services to help the production of a Cross Stone within Canterbury Cathedral Precincts
 as a memorial to the Armenian genocide, in recognition of the links between the CofE and the
 Armenian Church.

 Further financial support for KSAP via this MoU was through the Festival of Ideas, a series of
 public engagement initiatives organised between the University and Canterbury Cathedral on the
 theme ‘Questions of Space’. KSAP researchers (including PGRs) hosted four out of the 10 events,
 reflecting the vibrant research community: ‘Hot Air’, experiment (Watkins); ‘Thermal Delight’, walk
 (Vasilikou, PDRA); Bird’s Eye View, installation and public lecture (Fontana-Giusti); ‘Ypres to
 Canterbury’, exhibition (Fox Godden, PGR).

 Examples of additional financial support for different initiatives targeting public engagement
 include: (i) Karydis’ three-day conservation workshop with the Technical Chamber of Greece on
 ‘Conservation of Historic Buildings after the Earthquakes in Lesbos’ (2018), which contributed to
 one of our impact case studies; (ii) Cardellicchio for the publication of the Guide to the Hertziana
 Library for the International Open House in Rome; (iii) Brittain-Catlin to host Bressani, the Sir
 William C. MacDonald Chair in Architecture and Director of McGill University’s School of
 Architecture, for a range of lectures and talks at Canterbury and Ramsgate on Pugin’s architecture.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Such events provided both impact and pathways to impact through enhancing public
 understanding of architecture.

 Operational Infrastructure
 KSAP has the support of a designated professional liaison librarian at the University’s Templeman
 Library, the main information resource for staff and students at our Canterbury campus. KSAP’s
 library budget was £29,000 per annum in the REF2021 period. The School also benefits from
 dedicated technical support for the laboratory infrastructure and equipment (see Section 1). The
 calibre of this support has been recognised by the University, with the workshop manager (Smith)
 and 3D CAD technician (Soosaipillai) receiving the University Technical Support Award for 2019
 for exceptional contribution to research in KSAP.

 Infrastructure facilities include extensive laboratory equipment sensors, and dataloggers for
 monitoring of microclimatic conditions and energy consumption, a thermo-camera, a materials’
 weathering climate chamber, computing facilities, and a range of software for thermal simulation,
 computational fluid dynamics, GIS, and statistical and mathematical modelling. The resources for
 DARC, beyond the extensive software packages, include a £180k laboratory infrastructure
 investment of 3D printing facilities, desktop robotic arms, 3D scanners and a drone, along with
 virtual reality equipment (oculus and oculus rift). These facilities have been central in enabling
 key research activities for CASE and DARC, as well as for PGRs: e.g. ‘Rebuilding St Augustine’s
 Abbey: real‐time digital construction of heritage buildings in co‐operation with English Heritage’
 (Griffin); thermal walks as a research tool (PGR Vasilikou); and a range of environmental sensors
 for monitoring of buildings by different PGRs; as well as impact-related activities (the latter varying
 from projections for Dreamland, Margate, to thermal walks for various stakeholders).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Since 2014, KSAP has significantly increased its contribution to the discipline, to the professional
 community, to the environment, and to wider society. This has been achieved through
 collaborations with national and international partners, including partners across the HE sector,
 professional bodies and networks, amenity societies, cultural institutions, local government, and
 other stakeholders. The mechanisms vary from research collaborations to contributing to
 processes of research assessment and evaluation, both nationally and internationally; sitting on
 national and international committees and advisory boards; shaping policy and professional
 practice; organising conferences and workshops; editing journals; and undertaking a range of
 public engagement events and activities. The following examples provide a sense of these rich
 and varied activities.

 Contributions to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 Beyond extensive funded collaborations detailed in Section 3 above, staff have been involved with
 collaborative projects, funded directly by external partners, which resulted in research outputs and
 subsequent funding proposals. These include:

    •   CLIMATEST Correlation of parameters linked to thermal attenuation in transition spaces,
        University of Seville, 2019-20, Andalusian government (Nikolopoulou).
    •   ELIDEK Research Projects for postdoctoral research: ‘Urban Biometeorology and
        Planning’, Agricultural University of Athens, 2018-20, (Nikolopoulou).
    •   European Regional Development Fund (2018-19): ‘Dismountable pilot houses for elderly
        people’; funder: Veneto Region; IUAV Institute (Cardellicchio).
    •   Dumbarton Oaks, Washington: ‘Graphic Recording and Geophysical Survey (for both
        resistivity and magnetometry) of a Late Antique Residence in Corinth’, which led to the
        development of an important research output (2018) (Karydis).
    •   WIMEK Visiting Professor (2017-18), Wageningen Institute for Environment and Climate
        Research (Nikolopoulou), which led to a special issue for the International Journal of
        Biometeorology and the development of the successful H2020-MSCA-ITN-EID,
        ‘SOLOCLIM’.

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   ‘Thermal Comfort in Tsunami Housing Developments in Southern Coast of Sri Lanka’
        (2016-17), University of Moratuwa (Renganathan).
    •   Tianjin University Innovation Base, Ministry of Education of China (2012-17): ‘Low-carbon
        city and architecture’ Innovation Base Introducing International Talents (Nikolopoulou).
        Over the last seven years, this platform has enabled exchange of ideas, development of
        research proposals for funding through H2020, and dissemination events.

 KSAP has been outward looking and has welcomed research visitors, providing the catalyst for
 collaborations. Examples include:

    •   Juan Rojas Fernandez, University of Seville (June 2016-September 2016), for
        Nikolopoulou; this visit led to the development of the CLIMATEST research project above,
        funded by the Andalusian government and providing ongoing collaboration.
    •   Professor Fatang Wang, Wuhan University of Technology (2015-16), for Fontana-Giusti,
        collaborating on architecture by Kengo Kuma.
    •   Simone Queiroz da Silveira Hirashima, University of São Paulo, Brazil (June-September
        2015), funded by the Science without Borders Scholarship Programme, Brazil; the
        collaboration with Nikolopoulou led to the development of two peer-reviewed journal
        articles.
    •   Professor Raphaël Compagnon, École d’ingénieurs d’architectes de Fribourg, Switzerland
        (April 2014). His collaboration with Nikolopoulou and Chatzipoulka (PGR) resulted in four
        peer-reviewed publications. Following the completion of her PhD, Chatzipoulka joined EIF
        as a PDRA.

 CASE and CREAte have (co-)organised four international conferences each over the REF2021
 period. The CASE conferences, in particular, were a mechanism for engaging with new
 stakeholders, including RAE-FED, CIBSE Heritage Group, Historic England, Construction History
 Society, and Social Farms and Gardens.

 Other ways in which our staff have contributed to the sustainability of the discipline are through
 their involvement with research assessment panels and editorial boards. Examples include:

    •   Adler: RIBA Research Awards panel (2012-15), Queen’s Anniversary Awards for
        Education (2012).
    •   Brittain-Catlin: member of Lund Humphries editorial board for the Architectural History of
        the British Isles (2018-); editorial board, KADOC (University of Leuven Press) (2013-18).
    •   Caputo: member of the Scientific Committee of IRTA Leonardo, an Italian research institute
        for Regional Development and Environment within Sant’Anna Research Institute, Pisa
        (from 2017); member of AESOP Sustainable Food Planning (from 2016); and Editor for
        Cogent Social Sciences.
    •   Fontana-Giusti: AHRA Steering Group; reviewer on the panel for the Italian VQR 2016 for
        Architectural Humanities; Chair of the CHASE Consortium Panels (2015-20); Standing
        Review Board Member of Research Grants Council, Hong Kong (2011-); Routledge
        architecture books (2010-); Architecture and Culture editorial board (2010-).
    •   Guerci: reviewer for Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art publications; Society of
        Architectural Historians of Great Britain Board.
    •   Ireland: Editorial Board Biosemiotics Journal (Springer Nature).
    •   Nikolopoulou: Estonian Research Council: evaluation of R&D in Estonia (2017); Hellenic
        Foundation for Research and Innovation: evaluation of R&D (2018); Standing Review
        Board Member of Research Grants Council, Hong Kong (2014-); Hong Kong University
        Grants Committee: Member of the Research Assessment Exercise Group (RAE 2014);
        EPSRC College Member (2012-).
    •   Powers: joint editor of the journal Twentieth Century Architecture; joint series editor of the
        monograph series ‘Twentieth Century Architects’.

 Since 2014, KSAP staff have been external examiners for 36 PhDs, eight for HEIs outside the UK.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The quality of our KSAP’s contribution to the discipline is reflected in the various awards received
 by our staff. Design awards include: The ‘Exemplar Climate Change Project, for the sustainable
 refurbishment of a heritage townhouse in Dalby Square, Margate’, which was shortlisted for the
 regional Kent Design and Development Awards in three categories – (i) Conservation; (ii)
 Residential Minor; and (iii) Environmental Performance – and won ‘Highly Commended’ in the
 Environmental Performance category at the Kent Design and Development Awards (2018). It was
 also shortlisted for (iv) the RICS Social Impact Awards (2020) in the ‘Residential’ category. Gillick’s
 design work on art and community engagement practice working in marginal communities was the
 winner for the Glasgow Institute of Architects (2018) Small Projects for ‘The Happenstance’,
 Venice, and was shortlisted for the RIBA Journal (2019) MacEwan Award.

 Other awards include: Buš: Richard Rogers Fellowship (2018); Cardellicchio: Special mention at
 the 8th International Conference on Construction Research, organised by the Eduardo Torroja
 Institute in Madrid (2018); Guerci: Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries for contribution to the
 cultural and heritage sectors (2016); Nikolopoulou et al. commendation of their conference paper
 contribution at the International PLEA conference (2020); Renganathan: CIBSE Carter Bronze
 medal for the most highly rated paper relating to application and development (2016).

 University of Kent awards were also secured: Schoenefeldt: Faculty of Humanities ECR Research
 Prize (2016); Smith (Workshop Supervisor) and Soosaipillai from the Digital Workshop jointly won
 the University Research Award for Technical Support (2019) for their collective endeavour in
 supporting and enabling the work of the School.

 Additional international recognition of KSAP’s excellence in research has been through
 Nikolopoulou’s ranking in the top 2% of scientists in the world, according to a recent study
 published by Stanford University.

 Contributions to Professional Beneficiaries
 Beyond their contribution to the scholarly community, KSAP staff are very active within
 professional communities, sitting on steering committees (e.g. CIBSE, HE, TCPA, RTPI; see
 Section 1 ‘Impact’), contributing to the development of guides (CIBSE Guide A, Historic England
 Introduction to Heritage Assets); making regular contributions to trade journals including RICS
 (Bagaeen), RIBA, CIBSE (Schoenefeldt); and contributing to publications for the wider public; e.g.
 the Architectural Review, World of Interiors, archdaily.com (Brittain-Catlin), and The Conversation
 (Caputo, Schoenefeldt).

 Our staff have also organised workshops for professionals, while Brittain-Catlin and Powers are
 regularly involved with the Twentieth Century Society’s campaigns for education and conservation.

 Public lectures also feature strongly in our activities. These include: on the development of design
 guidance at a statutory level for Canterbury (Karydis); a series of workshops for practitioners and
 Members of Parliament on the restoration of the ventilation system of the Palace of Westminster
 (Schoenefeldt); lectures at the 100 Jahre Bauhaus events, at Pössneck Museum, Thuringia
 (Adler), and the Soane Museum (Guerci); lectures and discussion events at RIBA (Adler, Brittain-
 Catlin, Schoenefeldt), the Twentieth Century Society (Adler, Brittain-Catlin, Powers), the EDGE
 Debate – Urban Design Group (Nikolopoulou); the public art debate at Turner Contemporary
 (Fontana-Giusti); talks for art galleries, including Ditching Museum, Pallant House, Compton
 Verney, Brighton Museum, Arnolfini Gallery (Powers); presentations to professional exhibitions,
 such as the CIBSE Build2Perform, Futurebuild, EKOTECTURA Colombia, (Nikolopoulou); and
 invitations by the World Economic Forum, Cities team to the Forum on Future Cities events in the
 US and the UK (Bagaeen).

 Meaningful involvement with professional societies and committees, and wider esteem, are
 reflected in the following memberships:

    •   Adler: Heinrich-Tessenow-Gesellschaft, Gold Medal Award Committee.


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Bagaeen: Relationships Manager for the 100 Resilient Cities – pioneered by the
        Rockefeller Foundation (2016-18); and an Academician, Academy of Urbanism.
    •   Brittain-Catlin has been Judge for the World Architecture Festival (2018), the Hawksmoor
        Prize of the Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain (2015-), and the
        Architectural Review’s ‘New into Old’ competition with Michael and Pattie Hopkins.
    •   Caputo was on the Panel for the International Urban Farm competition.
    •   Griffin: member of Lighting Urban Communities International network.
    •   Guerci established a British Council Venice Biennale Fellowship for KSAP.
    •   Powers: member of Fabric Advisory Committee at St Edmundsbury Cathedral; and of the
        Art and Architecture Committee at Westminster Cathedral.

 Since 2014, KSAP staff have delivered 250 invited talks and keynotes nationally and
 internationally in Europe, North and Latin America, across Asia, at conferences, workshops,
 universities, and professional associations and practices.

 Contributions to Society
 Over the REF2021 period, our staff have organised a series of diverse public engagement events,
 enhancing the public understanding of architecture and the built environment, nationally and
 internationally. Examples include:

    •   International Open House Rome (Cardellicchio).
    •   Portcullis Open House London (Schoenefeldt).
    •   Campaign for awareness and protection of postmodern buildings (Brittain-Catlin).
    •   Griffin’s audio-visual display in St Augustine’s Church, Ramsgate, and subsequently
        Liminality, the Chapter House Light Show in Canterbury Cathedral.
    •   Pugin’s celebrations in Ramsgate (Brittain-Catlin, Haney).
    •   Art gallery exhibition curating with associated lectures and publications at House of
        Illustration, Margaret Howell Ltd (Powers).
    •   A series of coordinated thermal walks for the public (Vasilikou and Nikolopoulou).
    •   Gillick’s community engagement practice with marginal communities in Stoke-on-Trent and
        Kent.
    •   Questions of Space events organised with Canterbury Cathedral in 2016, where KSAP
        played an important role.

 Reaching out to diverse audiences is complemented by regular participation in TV and radio
 broadcasts. The HLF ‘Exemplar Climate Change Project, for the sustainable refurbishment of a
 heritage townhouse in Dalby Square, Margate’ provided one of the main case studies for Historic
 England (2020), and has appeared at the BBC South-East Today evening news (2017), as well
 as the BBC2 Victoria Derbyshire programme (2019). Brittain-Catlin appeared on BBC1’s The Big
 Questions on whether the Church of England should protect its historic buildings (2017) and BBC
 Radio 4’s The Westminster Hour on his book The Edwardians and their Houses (2019). Other
 interviews include Fontana-Giusti on BBC News Radio on the rediscovery and installation of
 Packe’s Chorographic map of East Kent (2016); Watkins on Euronews to discuss the European
 heatwave (2019); regular appearances in the Turkish TRT World’s flagship arts and culture
 Showcase to discuss vertical forests (Nikolopoulou), the Legacy of Zaha Hadid (Fontana-Giusti),
 and the work of Vittorio Gregotti (Fontana-Giusti). Our impact case study ‘Restoring the Palace
 of Westminster's C19 ventilation system’ has involved extensive engagement with the media,
 providing content for Channel 4, BBC London and BBC South East, while Schoenefeldt has
 featured on German (ARD) and Canadian (CBC) TV, and in live radio interviews with the BBC and
 Radio New Zealand.

 Beyond public lectures, radio interviews, and TV appearances, the ‘Think Kent’ YouTube lectures
 have provided an opportunity for our staff to engage with a wider audience through short video
 lectures, a popular medium for presenting bitesize research areas (Adler, Brittain-Catlin,
 Cardellicchio, Griffin, Karydis, Nikolopoulou, Schoenefeldt).


                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finally, reinforcing our strategic aim to be an agent for change and impact for our various
 communities, we highlight the technical team’s achievements, using the KSAP infrastructure
 during the COVID-19 pandemic together with colleagues in the Schools of Computing and
 Engineering and Digital Arts to design and supply 300 sets of personal protective equipment (PPE)
 for East Kent’s largest hospice charity, Pilgrims Hospice.




                                                                                          Page 15
