Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: 10007140 – Birmingham City University (BCU)

Unit of Assessment: 27 – English Language & Literature

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Overview
The School of English at BCU has longstanding research clusters in i) Descriptive Linguistics,
including Corpus Linguistics, Sociolinguistics, and Language and the Law, and ii) Literary Studies,
especially the Long Eighteenth Century and the Modern Period, also encompassing Drama and
Creative Writing. The primary driver of our research excellence is the intellectual curiosity of our
academic staff and doctoral students. As we go on to describe, the focus of our research strategy,
as an individual UoA and as part of a cohesive Faculty, has been on developing support
mechanisms to provide researchers at all career stages with the necessary skills, time and
resources to produce and disseminate research of the highest quality.

We have submitted to all assessment exercises since RAE1996, and returned the vast majority of
our staff in both 2008 and 2014. Since 2014, we have increased our research-active staff base by
23% from 12.4 to 15.2 FTE. We have increased the range and total value of external grant awards
(see §3), and our involvement in the AHRC Midlands4Cities consortium has had a transformational
effect on our doctoral training environment (see §2.2). This has been achieved by our most junior
group of researchers ever, with 53% of the staff in our return awarded their doctorate during this
REF cycle. This is the result of our strategic decision over the past two cycles to contribute to the
vitality and sustainability of both our own research community and the wider discipline by recruiting
and developing early career researchers (see §2.1).

We have an eclectic understanding of our discipline, with staff engaged in activities ranging from
software development and quantitative analyses to public exhibitions and creative forms of
expression. Our outputs and impact case studies demonstrates the power of English to reinvent its
historic boundaries and form new alliances. Cross-disciplinary working has been enhanced during
this cycle by changes to University structures and our relocation to Birmingham city centre. The
School is now part of the Faculty of Arts, Design and Media (ADM), which was established by
Roberts as Executive Dean in 2014 to bring together all arts and humanities work in the
University, and through which research activity is strategically co-ordinated. Under Kehoe’s
Directorship, English Language & Literature is one of four Units of Assessment within ADM, each
having the same Research Directorate structure, with Associate Directors for careers, outputs and
impact, external income, and doctoral education.

1.2 Review of research and impact strategy, 2014-2020
In our REF2014 submission we summarised our future research strategy as “to continue to foster
world-leading research across the field of English Studies, with an increased emphasis on cross-
disciplinary collaborative projects”. We went on to describe how the relocation of the School would
“bring together the University's arts and humanities provision in a single city centre location with
new state-of-the-art facilities [and] enable us to explore common methods and approaches to
research across the arts and humanities, exploiting synergies between subject areas and working
more closely with city centre-based arts organisations”.

Our research strategy was, and continues to be, inextricably linked to our Impact strategy. In our
2014 REF3a document we outlined our plans for the latter as being “to build upon existing
partnerships and develop new cross-disciplinary research collaborations with potential for high
impact” and to “exploit the growing importance of Corpus Linguistics as a cross-disciplinary
methodology”. At the beginning of this cycle we set out the following specific goals in our School
research strategy, all of which have been met or exceeded:

 Goal                                              Achievement
 Forge new cross-disciplinary (and cross-          Our planned relocation took place in 2015 and
 institutional) links                              collaborative projects have since been initiated
                                                   between our staff and those researching a

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                  wide variety of disciplines (see §1.2.1)
 Explore new funding opportunities beyond         We have increased the range and total value
 research councils                                of external grant awards in this cycle by turning
                                                  to new sources such as Horizon2020, DFG,
                                                  and the National Lottery Heritage Fund, in
                                                  addition to new AHRC awards (see §3)
 Increase doctoral student numbers and, thus,     Our involvement in Midlands4Cities has trebled
 completions                                      PhD completions, with continued growth (see
                                                  §2.2)
 Build on our Impact success in REF2014           Researchers across both clusters are involved
 (100% 4*/3*)                                     in high-impact external engagement activities.
                                                  For our case studies we have selected two
                                                  cross-disciplinary projects (one from each
                                                  cluster) with significant impacts beyond English
                                                  Studies and beyond academia (see §1.2.2)
 Involve more staff in research management by     The Directorate was established in 2014 with a
 establishing a School Research Directorate       Director (Kehoe) and Associate Directors
                                                  (Howe, McGlashan, Trowbridge), overseeing
                                                  career development, research leave, and the
                                                  peer-review of outputs/bids (see §2.1)
 Provide all staff with a research mentor         Overseen by Trowbridge, our mentoring
                                                  scheme ensures that all staff, from emerging
                                                  researchers to Professors, are assigned a
                                                  mentor to offer support with outputs and
                                                  funding application development, and to review
                                                  the annual Personal Research Development
                                                  Plan (see §2.1)
 Provide all research-active staff with           This has been achieved through the
 guaranteed research time aligned to              introduction of a new institutional Workload
 performance targets appropriate to career        Allocation Model and Faculty Research
 stage                                            Investment      Scheme (FRIS),         and the
                                                  continuation of our School research leave
                                                  scheme (see §2.1)

1.2.1 Cross-disciplinary working
Since our relocation in 2015, staff across both clusters have collaborated closely with researchers
in other Schools co-located on the City Centre campus. In particular, there has been extensive
collaboration with colleagues in Law and Social Sciences. Issa has co-authored two journal articles
on Islamophobia (2018, 2020) with Professor Imran Awan (Criminology), while Gee and
Tkacukova worked with colleagues in Law in 2019/20 to co-supervise a research intern exploring
the language of equality in the UK Supreme Court. In 2017/18, Gee, Kehoe and Lawson, along
with Dr Pelham Carter (Psychology) were awarded an internal STEAM grant for a series of
workshops on the use of Corpus Linguistic methods in the social sciences. Later, in May 2019,
Tkacukova co-hosted a BA/Leverhulme-funded workshop on applications of Corpus Linguistics for
socio-legal scholars, with presentations by Gee and Kehoe. Tkacukova’s collaborations in this
area extend beyond BCU through her AHRC-funded work with Professor Robert Lee (University of
Birmingham Law School) on legal-lay communication and her BA/Leverhulme project with
Professor Hilary Sommerlad (School of Law, University of Leeds) on improving access to legal
advice for litigants in person (see §3).

Within the ADM Faculty, Issa worked with colleagues in the School of Art in 2017 to secure
€17,500 of Erasmus+ Staff Mobility funding for a partnership between BCU and Palestinian arts
institutions and universities, Leadbetter was Poet in Residence in Fine Art (2014), and Botham
divides her time equally between the School of English and the Royal Birmingham Conservatoire,
teaching and undertaking research collaborations in Acting. Trowbridge is a member of the Dress
in Context research cluster hosted by the School of Fashion & Textiles, where she has co-
organised conferences and given a series of talks on literature and dress. She also works

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
extensively at the intersection of English Literature and Art History, including her AHRC-funded
Reading Art project in collaboration with the city centre-based Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery
(see §3). Outputs in our submission which have benefitted from our cross-disciplinary environment
in ADM include Moss’s work on Music and Modernism (27Z_OP_D0023), Trowbridge’s on Art
and Poetry in the Victorian period (27Z_OP_B2503), and Roberts’s on Beethoven and
Shakespeare (27Z_OP_D0028). The last of these led to a commission on Shakespeare,
Beethoven and Wagner for the Oxford Handbook of Shakespeare in Music, edited by two
musicologists (OUP 2021).

In addition, several colleagues have co-supervised doctoral students across disciplines at BCU,
including Media (Botham, Lawson, McGlashan, Tkacukova), Art & Design (Anderton), Game
Studies (Seiwald), Law (Gee), and Music (Roberts). Further synergies have emerged since
January 2020 when the School of English joined with the School of Media under a single Head to
form the Birmingham Institute of Media and English (BIME), one of four Institutes within ADM
Faculty. This will help foster new research collaborations and cross-supervision in the next cycle.

1.2.2 Impact
We have adopted a strategic approach to impact through management of individual workloads and
research allowances. Additional Faculty support has helped us track evidence trails, learn from
impact narratives in adjacent disciplines, and make use of the University’s suite of specialist
exhibition space. The first of our case studies describes Issa’s ground-breaking work on the
Stories of Sacrifice project and exhibition which drew upon and contributed to research in History,
Sociology and Theology. This work – awarded £97,500 by the Ministry of Defence’s Covenant
Fund and match funded by the British Muslim Heritage Centre – increased public awareness of the
role played by Muslim soldiers in the Allied campaign during WWI by revealing that at least twice
as many (885,000) fought in the war than had previously been reported. Stories of Sacrifice won
the prize for Research Project of the Year in the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences at the 2019
Times Higher Education awards. The project has increased cross-cultural and cross-faith
awareness at local, national and international levels, with the UK Army changing its Diversity and
Inclusion strategy and Greater Manchester Police diversifying its recruitment practices as a direct
result of Issa’s findings. His research was facilitated by a full semester of research leave awarded
by the School and further teaching buy-out awarded through FRIS.

Our second case study is based on the work of the Research and Development for English Studies
(RDUES), a team of Corpus Linguists developing novel software tools to detect patterns and
trends in ‘real world’ language data. The case study demonstrates the success of our 2014 Impact
strategy, specifically our desire to “exploit the growing importance of Corpus Linguistics as a cross-
disciplinary methodology”, and is the result of significant internal investment in dedicated IT
infrastructure over a sixteen-year period (see §3). This investment has allowed RDUES
researchers Kehoe and Gee to expand their WebCorp and eMargin text analysis systems to cover
a wider range of data and to facilitate work by a broader spectrum of external users. As an
indication of this growth, the eMargin collaborative annotation tool, which we reported as having
800 registered users in our REF2014 submission, now has over 13,000 users across disciplines
and sectors worldwide, with accelerated growth during the COVID-19 pandemic. A new project
initiated during this cycle has seen the RDUES team apply its expertise and linguistically-informed
software algorithms to the analysis of free-text comments made in the National Student Survey. In
collaboration with BCU’s Planning & Performance department, Kehoe and Gee developed
OurSurveySays: a user-friendly ‘dashboard’ system designed to provide non-specialists with
insights into the key themes emerging from the comments made by students across courses and
disciplines. OurSurveySays has been rolled out to universities across the UK and has been
extremely well received (see REF3).

Beyond the selected case studies, researchers in both clusters continue to undertake external
engagement activities which will reach maturity in the next cycle. Our Institute of Creative and
Critical Writing (ICCW), directed by Leadbetter, draws upon research and practice expertise
across our Literary Studies cluster and beyond to engage with the wider culture of the West
Midlands. This is achieved through an annual programme of poetry readings, book launches and

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
other public events, with a total attendance of over 1000 during the REF cycle. The ICCW has a
well-established partnership with the Arts Council-funded development agency Writing West
Midlands, which runs the annual Birmingham Literature Festival and the National Writers’
Conference. This relationship has been strengthened during the current cycle through an AHRC
Collaborative Doctoral Award exploring the critical reception of new literary writing beyond
academia. The ICCW is the public face of our MA in Creative Writing and, through this, aims to
provide career development opportunities for young writers. A recent success has been the Poetry
Birmingham journal, founded by MA graduates Naush Sabah and Suna Afshan and published
through their own press, Pallina. The TLS wrote in November 2020 “Very quickly, then, Poetry
Birmingham has become a magazine in which a promising variety of poets evidently want to be
seen” before going on to praise its “intellectually lithe and provocative editorials [...] each a
passionate and measured meditation on the art and its contexts” (https://www.the-
tls.co.uk/articles/poetry-birmingham-review-rory-waterman/). An indicator of longer term success is
the fact that the novel Love and Other Thought Experiments by Sophie Ward, graduate of our
previous Diploma in Writing, was long-listed for the 2020 Booker Prize. Elsewhere in our Literary
Studies cluster, we have invested in research with an impact on the education of students at A-
Level and the first two years of undergraduate study. Roberts’s book Restoration Plays and
Players: An Introduction (Cambridge University Press, 2014) was commissioned to meet the needs
of undergraduates. His textbook Games for English Literature (Libri, 2016), co-authored with
Hopkins, is a resource for A-Level and first-year undergraduate tutors that derives from work
funded by the HEA Innovative Pedagogies programme; its research basis is articulated in an article
for the educational journal Changing English (2015).

In our Linguistics cluster, corpus methods are being used in Tkacukova’s ongoing AHRC project
on the language of litigants in person, McGlashan’s work on toxic masculinities (including his
contributions to the AHRC Mascnet Research Network), and research on the language of far-right
groups (Lawson and McGlashan, including regular contributions to national media). Lawson’s
Sociolinguistic Research: Application and Impact (27Z_OP_B2006) is a unique reference for those
designing and assessing the public benefit of research in (socio)linguistics. Towards the end of this
cycle, all five linguists in the School collaborated on a successful bid to the UKRI COVID-19 rapid-
response call for a project applying their Corpus Linguistic tools and expertise to the analysis of
COVID-19 misinformation on social media. The project, led by Kehoe and awarded £77K by the
AHRC over 6 months, promises to produce a significant impact in the next cycle by building a
COVID information dashboard for use by government agencies and the general public.

1.3 Future research and impact strategy
Our specific objectives for the next five years, shaped through discussion at all-staff meetings, are
to:

  i.    continue to appoint and nurture early career academics in order to develop the next
        generation of research leaders, supporting them over the long term, not just within a REF
        cycle (see §2.1).
  ii.   strengthen our postgraduate research community through the development of new feeder
        courses (e.g. MA English Literature launched in September 2020) and through the
        collaborative recruitment and training potential of the AHRC Midlands4Cities consortium.
 iii.   diversify our external grant income through a continued focus on cross-disciplinary work,
        particularly on the role of Corpus Linguistics as a catalyst for research innovation and
        impact across the humanities and social sciences (see §3).
 iv.    increase external engagement through new partnerships with businesses, the creative
        industries and public bodies, building on the strong track record evidenced in our impact
        case studies.
 v.     ensure that our research excellence feeds directly into teaching at all levels, offering
        students opportunities to engage in knowledge discovery and applied research.

1.4 Open research environment
With one exception, all in-scope outputs in our submission (journal articles) were made available in
BCU’s open-access repository (https://www.open-access.bcu.ac.uk/) within the required

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
timescales. An initiative which demonstrates our commitment as a School to an open research
environment is the eMargin collaborative text annotation system developed by RDUES with initial
funding from Jisc (see REF3). The system is hosted on a virtual server at BCU and is freely
available for use by researchers, teachers and students across academic disciplines, as well as
the wider public. Full source-code is also freely available on SourceForge for other software
developers to download, modify and expand.

1.5 Research integrity
The School fosters a culture of research integrity, and ensures that research is conducted
according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards.
Our Linguistic data analysis adopts secure access and backup protocols. As UoA Ethics
Coordinator, McGlashan is responsible for the implementation of University policies (including a
multi-stage ethical review for all staff and doctoral research projects) and reports to Faculty Ethics
Committee. The University-level Compliance Team oversees externally-funded project periodic
review and the provision of training workshops for principal investigators.

2. People
2.1 Staff recruitment and development
Our research community in the School of English is made up of 17 people or 15.2FTE (with 76% of
staff working full-time and 24% on fractional contracts; all except Seiwald, a fixed-term
Postdoctoral Research Fellow, are on permanent contracts). This represents a 23% growth in FTE
terms since REF2014. As noted above, our long-term strategy has been to recruit and nurture staff
at the beginning of their academic careers. We returned a record number of ECRs to REF2014
(six, making up 43% of our staff) and three of these researchers (Gee, Leadbetter, Trowbridge)
are still in post. All have reaped the rewards of the career development opportunities described
later in this section, with Gee promoted to Research Fellow in 2015 and Trowbridge, who
completed her PhD with us in the last cycle, promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2017 and Reader in
2020. Leadbetter has also been promoted twice in the current cycle: to Reader in 2014 and
Professor in 2020.

We have continued to recruit staff to their first permanent post, with research track record and
potential being essential criteria in all academic appointments throughout the cycle. There have
been nine such appointments (56% female, 22% BAME): Issa and Tkacukova (2015),
McGlashan and Moss (2016), Ananisarab, Anderton, and Hopkins (2017), and Potter and
Seiwald (2019). Both Hopkins and Seiwald completed their doctorates with us during this cycle
before taking up Faculty-funded postdoctoral fellowships (the former being converted to a
permanent contract). Anderton, Moss and Tkacukova have all since been promoted to Senior
Lecturer based on research success. Issa was promoted from Lecturer to Reader in under five
years in recognition of his outstanding contribution to our research environment. Other promotions
of longer-term staff have been of Howe to Reader (2014), and Kehoe and Lawson to Associate
Professor (2015 and 2018 respectively).

The nine staff departures since REF2014 (due to a combination of retirements and appointments
to new posts within the sector) have included four Professors, none of whom were replaced at the
same grade. The only remaining Professor for much of this cycle (until Leadbetter was promoted
in 2020) has been Roberts, who was PVC Executive Dean of ADM Faculty until 2018 and has
since been on a 0.6FTE contract. This limited amount of research leadership at Professorial level
has presented us with some challenges but also opportunities to diversify our research portfolio,
and we have benefited from enhanced leadership structures at Faculty level, as described below.

Research in English is led by Kehoe, an experienced Associate Professor who has been in post as
Director of Research since 2012. Until 2020 he was also Deputy Head of School and he continues
to sit on the management committee of BIME, ensuring research is fully integrated into all Institute-
level planning and policies. Throughout this cycle, Kehoe has been supported by Associate
Directors for career development and impact (Trowbridge) and doctoral education (Howe until
2019, McGlashan from 2020). The Research Directorate meets monthly, reporting to Faculty
Research Committee. They are supported by Roberts, who coordinated our internal peer-review of

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
outputs for REF. The formation of BIME has provided opportunities for increased co-working with
experienced research leaders in the School of Media. Our Associate Directors work as part of the
ADM Researcher Education Team, led by Dr Oliver Carter and Professor John Mercer, while Dr
Dima Saber provides leadership across BIME for external grant capture.

Our School staff development strategy has two overarching ambitions: i) to contribute to the vitality
and sustainability of the discipline by developing the careers of the next generation of academics,
and ii) to ensure that all staff are supported in developing the skills necessary to shape appropriate
research priorities and to access internal and external funding. These goals have been achieved
through a combination of School-, Faculty-, and University-level initiatives:

   •   A transparent institution-wide Workload Allocation Model (WAM), introduced during this
       cycle, recognises the importance of research activity in the career of an academic and
       ensures that adequate time is allocated for this purpose. Staff who apply successfully to the
       Faculty for research-active status are awarded Significant Responsibility for Research
       (SRR). Staff at SRR1 are granted a research allowance of 0.25FTE, while those at SRR2
       (Readers/Professors) are given 0.35FTE, including time for leadership activities within the
       School and the wider discipline (e.g. journal editorship, subject association membership,
       research council peer-reviewing). All research-active staff are guaranteed a day each week
       (pro rata) on which they are free from teaching and administrative duties. In their first year,
       new colleagues receive a lighter teaching load and do not take up major administrative
       roles.

   •   Standardised Faculty-level research goals are built into the Individual Performance Review
       (IPR) process, covering areas appropriate to SRR status (outputs, conference speaking,
       external funding proposals, doctoral supervision, etc.). Progress is assessed at mid-year
       and year-end meetings, where staff are given the opportunity to discuss immediate training
       needs and long-term career aspirations.

   •   Colleagues have benefited greatly from the Faculty’s extensive Researcher Education and
       Development (RED) scheme, a year-round programme of workshops on topics such as
       grant capture and doctoral supervision (accredited by SEDA, the Staff and Educational
       Development Association). Since 2014, the RED programme has enabled 13 researchers
       in English to attend a Supervisor Development Day, four to undertake Mentoring Training,
       and four to attend a PhD Examination Workshop.

   •   All colleagues meet with their research mentor formally twice a year. Mentors are assigned
       on the basis of career stage and subject specialism, and year-round mentoring includes
       advice on project planning, network building, outputs and impact.

   •   Support for external funding bid development has been enhanced by a Faculty peer-review
       process mapped against UKRI standards. Our staff are able to draw upon expertise from
       two Peer Review College members within the School (Tkacukova, AHRC; Kehoe, ESRC)
       and, in the wider Faculty, from two AHRC Strategic Reviewers (Professor Rajinder Dudrah,
       Professor Tim Wall) and a HERA Knowledge Exchange & Impact Fellow (Professor Tony
       Whyton).

   •   The Faculty Research Investment Scheme (FRIS) enables staff to bid for funds for teaching
       remission to work on a substantial research task, such as the completion of a monograph,
       the development of an external funding proposal, or an impact activity. Support has been
       provided through FRIS for 18 projects by English staff, worth a total of £90,000. The Faculty
       also devolves a researcher mobility budget to each UoA, which has funded over £42,000 of
       conference travel, library/archive visits and other networking activities for English staff in
       this cycle.

   •   Although there is no standing University- or Faculty-level sabbatical scheme at BCU, as a
       School we have our own research leave scheme for permanent staff, including those on

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       part-time contracts. Leave applications must demonstrate clear, measurable outcomes, and
       are scrutinised by the Research Directorate. A report is required at the end of the leave
       period, followed by a seminar to present outcomes to colleagues. Staff become eligible for
       research leave three years after appointment and can then expect to be released for one
       semester every six years, without penalty if awarded external or FRIS funding. During this
       cycle, Botham, Issa, Howe, Kehoe, Lawson, Leadbetter, Tkacukova and Trowbridge
       have all been awarded a full semester of research leave, leading directly to outputs and
       impacts included in our submission.

2.2 Support for research students
Our approach to doctoral education has been transformed in this cycle through our participation in
the AHRC Midlands4Cities doctoral training partnership alongside Birmingham, Coventry, De
Montfort, Leicester, Nottingham, Nottingham Trent, and Warwick. As a School, we have been
awarded six studentships through this highly competitive route, and secured two separate AHRC
Collaborative Doctoral Awards in collaboration with partner organisations outside the HE sector.
The first, in partnership with the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust, funded a doctorate supervised by
Issa on international responses to Shakespeare (2017) while the second, in partnership with
Writing West Midlands, funded a cross-disciplinary project on the reception of the literary arts and
implications for public funding, co-supervised by Leadbetter and Kehoe (2019). All AHRC awards
have been match-funded by ADM Faculty through the devolved QR budget. In addition, ADM has
funded two studentships for English students through the internal STEAMhouse initiative.

There have been eight doctoral completions during this cycle: five in Linguistics and three in
Literary Studies, including our first completion in Creative Writing. This represents a significant
increase on the three completions we reported to REF2014. A further completion in the current
cycle not included in the reported figures is by Kehoe, who was awarded a PhD by submission of
published works in 2016. The recruitment of doctoral students continues to grow, with six recently
registered doctoral researchers in both clusters set to complete in the next cycle.

ADM Faculty provides an organised and systematic doctoral education and development
programme across the arts and humanities. This follows the AHRC’s doctoral training framework
and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, providing postgraduate
research students (PGRs) with key professional and transferable skills to prepare them for careers
inside and outside academia. The programme begins with three strands of induction:

   •   University-level induction introduces PGRs to BCU’s research culture including an
       introduction to the PGCert in Research Practice and sessions on University services
       (library, student support, wellbeing, etc.).
   •   Faculty-level induction embeds a sense of research community across all UoAs outlining
       the roles and expectations of supervisors and a Q&A with current PGRs and Postdoctoral
       Research Fellows.
   •   Midlands4Cities PGRs are also required to attend a 2-day residential induction which sets
       out requirements and additional opportunities specific to Midlands4Cities, showcases
       research from current students, and highlights cross-consortium collaborative opportunities.

In their first year, all PGRs undertake the PGCert in Research Practice, led by Dr Oliver Carter with
support from academics across the Faculty. Through 10 weekly workshops, the course exposes
students to a wide range of methods, working as part of a diverse community of researchers.
Sessions are supported by weekly tutorials with supervisory teams. The course takes place over 6
months for full-time PGRs (12 months part-time), requiring them to submit a 6000-word research
proposal and 3000-word critical reflection. PGRs are expected to consider their current skills,
knowledge and experience in relation to future ambitions and the potential impact of their research,
leading to the production of a 5-year plan.

Throughout their studies, students take part in ‘PGRStudio’, an interdisciplinary programme led at
Faculty level by Dr Jacqueline Taylor, which aims to enhance the ADM PGR student experience by
offering weekly training workshops and a mentoring scheme. PGRs are given the opportunity to

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
complete the SEDA course in HE Teacher Training and to apply to become an Associate Fellow of
AdvanceHE. Since 2015, PGRStudio has also held an annual student-run conference which aims
to provide an inclusive and experimental space for PGRs to present work-in-progress.

BCU revised its regulations and processes for research degrees in 2014 to provide better
monitoring as well as a more supportive student experience, adopting best practice from the sector
and learning from our experience as part of Midlands4Cities. Potential supervisors are involved in
the application process at an early stage. This assists in assessing the applicant's suitability for a
research degree and how well the proposed project fits with our expertise and priorities. All
students have at least two supervisors, with the designated Director of Studies expected to meet
full-time students fortnightly, and part-time students at least twice a semester. Second supervisors
provide specialist disciplinary or methodological expertise. The responsibilities of supervisors and
students, set out in the Research Degree Student Handbook, have been developed in line with the
QAA Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Programmes. Progression review meetings take
place at 6-months and 12-months (or equivalent) and are conducted by a panel external to the
supervisory team using viva-like examination processes. At the end of each academic year, the
student and each supervisor are asked to complete an annual report and a plan for the coming
year, which are scrutinised by Faculty Research Degrees & Environment Committee. Viva
preparation support includes compulsory mock-vivas, and interdisciplinary ‘Viva Survival’
workshops facilitated by recent PhD graduates and experienced PhD examiners.

2.3 Equality and diversity policy
We are a relatively small unit (17 people with SRR: 10 identifying as male and 7 as female; 14
white, 2 BAME, 1 other; none with a declared disability). We foster an open and inclusive
environment where staff at all levels are involved in decision making and are given access to the
same sources of support. In accordance with BCU’s code of practice, all staff are encouraged to
apply for research-active status (SRR), and therefore to receive the appropriate WAM remission
and resources to pursue a research career. Applications are assessed via submission of a five-
year research plan (which may include support to undertake a PhD). On the census date, 6 people
had opted not to apply for SRR. Doctoral students, postdoctoral researchers and ECRs, including
those on fixed-term contracts, are eligible to apply for conference travel and networking funds, and
ECRs can also apply for FRIS funds. Members of all recruitment and promotion panels attend EDI
training. Our UoA REF2021 peer-review panel included colleagues representing all career stages
and all attended EDI training provided by AdvanceHE. The panel presented its output selection
criteria to all staff and invited discussion at a series of School meetings in 2019/20.

Our commitment to equality and diversity will be strengthened further still in the next cycle. The
wider BIME institute is in the process of applying for an Athena SWAN departmental award
(application delayed by COVID-19), and the University’s LGBT+ Staff Network is in the process of
applying for accreditation from Stonewall’s Diversity Champions programme.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
All QR income from REF2014 is devolved by the University to the Faculty, which disburses it
through the processes described in §2 (doctoral studentships; postdoctoral fellowships; FRIS;
Conferences, Networking & Mobility Fund). English has benefitted significantly from this approach:
with 14% of the Faculty’s research-active staff, we have attracted 21% of QR income.

During the census period, staff in English have been awarded external grants with a combined
value to BCU of over £375k from a wider range of sources than ever before. Signal successes
include Tkacukova’s AHRC project in partnership with the University of Birmingham on legal-lay
communication (£184k) and her BA/Leverhulme project with Leeds Law School on access to legal
advice for litigants in person, as well as successive awards to Issa: AHRC/BBC New Generation
Thinkers, British Muslim Heritage Centre, Ministry of Defence, National Lottery Heritage Fund. A
major Leverhulme-funded initiative (£108k) by Professor Richard Ingham (since retired) with
technical input from Gee led to the creation of the Bilingual Thesaurus of Everyday Life in Medieval
England (https://thesaurus.ac.uk/). External funding has also supported our public engagement
activities. For example, Trowbridge’s AHRC Cultural Engagement project Reading Art explored

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the literary aspects of the Pre-Raphaelite collections held by the Birmingham Museum & Art
Gallery, leading to a series of public lectures, storytelling sessions and student workshops on art
and poetry (https://readingart.wordpress.com/).

The success of our strategy for exploring new funding opportunities beyond research councils, as
outlined in our REF2014 submission, is further evidenced through several awards from bodies
outside the UK, including the US (Issa: Milton Society of America, Huntington Library) and
Germany (Gee: DFG). In addition, Kehoe and Gee (RDUES) were members of the consortium
awarded €5million through the EU Horizon2020 scheme for the RED-Alert project (2017-20),
alongside colleagues from BCU’s School of Computing and 15 partner organisations across
Europe (total BCU share: €270,000). RED-Alert is a real-time early detection and alert system for
online terrorist content, the development of which has drawn upon the linguistic and web analysis
expertise of the RDUES team.

Our grant-capture strategy seeks to foster a range of initiatives from small pilot projects through to
large European bids, thereby drawing upon a wider range of income streams. We have placed a
particular emphasis on collaborative projects, across disciplines and often across institutions. In
this cycle we have benefited greatly from enhanced support at Faculty level. Regular bulletins from
the ADM Research Office inform all staff of the latest funding opportunities. As outlined in §2.1,
RED workshops support staff in making grant applications, with sessions targeted at particular
funders (AHRC, BA/Leverhulme, etc.). The Research Mentoring scheme and Personal Research
Development Planning help colleagues identify and apply for funding opportunities and integrate
external bid development into annual review goals. Bid development in the School is supported
through an internal peer-review process. There is in-person support from the moment the applicant
decides to develop a bid until the bid is submitted. Each funding application is peer-reviewed by a
team which includes senior and early career researchers, and a combination of specialists and
non-specialists. Review templates are adapted from UKRI review forms to allow applicants to
address concerns external reviewers are likely to raise. The composition of the peer-review panel
ensures that applications communicate effectively with reviewers within and outside the area of
specialisation, and also enables ECRs to gain peer-reviewing experience. The final stages,
including institutional approval, are coordinated by the Faculty Research Office.

Our impact case study on the work of RDUES has been facilitated by almost £100,000 of
institutional investment since 2014 in five dedicated virtual servers and 25TB of high-speed storage
space. This IT infrastructure hosts the WebCorp, eMargin and OurSurveySays systems and
associated textual corpora. The ongoing investment has therefore supported not only staff and
students at BCU but also hundreds of thousands of people across and beyond the HE sector
globally who are able to access the resources free of charge (see REF3). BCU has also invested
heavily in its city centre campus during this cycle, improving the physical environment for both
teaching and research. The University library was relocated to the new £63million Curzon Building
in 2015 at the same time as the School, bringing its substantial resources within easy research of
our staff and doctoral students. The library has received significant investment in monographs and
in databases such as EEBO, LION and JSTOR that directly support individual staff projects as well
as the interface between research and teaching (for example, undergraduate projects involving
document search and analysis in EEBO).

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Researchers across the School have been engaged in collaborations, nationally and
internationally, contributing to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline as well as to the wider
academic, literary and artistic culture. Selected examples are given below (27Z_OP_* identifiers
refer to outputs in our submission).

4.1 Literary Studies Cluster
The Faculty scheme of research allowances described above supports contribution to national
and international research initiatives, including Ananisarab’s role as a working group
coordinator on the executive committee of the Theatre and Performance Research Association
(TaPRA), Howe’s Editorial Board membership of The Byron Journal and The Keats-Shelley

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Review, Trowbridge’s guest editorship of Victoriographies, and Botham’s service as a reviewer
for the Israel Science Foundation and lead co-convenor of the Political Performances Working
Group at the International Federation for Theatre Research (2014-2017). Howe, Kehoe and
Roberts serve on the AHRC Midlands4Cities doctoral training partnership’s studentship panel.

Colleagues have also been supported in assessing proposals for publication for publishers
including OUP (Leadbetter), CUP (Roberts), the Society for Theatre Research (Roberts),
Ashgate (Trowbridge) and Routledge (Trowbridge), and journals including Exchanges: The
Interdisciplinary Research Journal, Green Letters: Studies in Ecocriticism, Forum for Modern
Language Studies, Journal of Literature and Science, Studies in Theatre and Performance, Milton
Quarterly, Romanticism, European Romantic Review, Religion and Literature, Notes & Queries,
Studies in Romanticism, Restoration, The Historian, Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Theatre
Research, Religion and Literature, Journal of Victorian Studies, and Nineteenth-century gender
studies.

Forty invited essays and studies have been published by members of the cluster since
REF2014: Ananisarab, 'Candida' in The Literary Encyclopedia. Volume 1.2.1.08, English Writing
and Culture of the early Twentieth Century, 1900-1945 (2019); Botham, ‘The Twenty-First-Century
History Play’, in Twenty-First Century Drama: What Happens Now, ed. Siân Adiseshiah and Louise
Le Page (Palgrave, 2016); Commissioned journal article: ‘Teatro testimonial contemporáneo en
Chile: Dilemas éticos y estéticos’ [Contemporary Testimonial Theatre in Chile: Ethical and
Aesthetic Dilemmas], in Nuestra América vol 10, 2016; Howe, ‘Byron’s Letters’ for The Keats-
Shelley Review; ‘Defences and Manifestoes’, in The Oxford Handbook of British Romanticism, ed.
David Duff (2019); Issa, ‘Milton as Propaganda: Republican and Divorce Tracts in the Arab Press’,
Milton Studies 62.2 (Fall 2020); ‘Milton’s Areopagitica in the Arab World Today’, in Reading Milton
through Islam, eds. David Currell and François-Xavier Gleyzon (Routledge, 2018); ‘Milton’s Global
Impact: the Arabic-Speaking World’, in A New Companion to Milton, ed. Thomas Corns (Wiley
Blackwell, 2016); Leadbetter, 27Z_OP_C0021; 27Z_OP_D2002; ‘Savage, Holy, Enchanted:
Coleridge in Concert with the Wild’, in Wild Romanticism, ed. Markus Poetzsch and Cassandra
Falke (Palgrave, 2020); ‘Byronic Inflections in British and Irish Poetry since 1945’, in Byron Among
the English Poets, ed. Clare Bucknell and Matthew Ward (CUP, 2020); ‘Hare and Hound: Ends
and Means in Coleridge’s Letters’, in Romanticism and the Letter, ed. Madeleine Callaghan and
Anthony Howe (Palgrave, 2020); ‘Samuel Taylor Coleridge’, in The Bloomsbury Anthology of
Romantic Poetry, ed. Daniel Robinson (Bloomsbury, 2020); ‘The Hunt Circle and the Cockney
School’, in Keats in Context, ed. Michael O’Neill (CUP, 2017); ‘The Lyric Impulse of Poems, in Two
Volumes’, in The Oxford Handbook of William Wordsworth, eds. Richard Gravil and Daniel
Robinson (OUP, 2014); ‘The “true wild weird spirit” of “Christabel”’, The Coleridge Bulletin 50
(Winter 2017); ‘The Snake, the Goddess and the Poet’s Learning: Ted Hughes and the
Contentions of Criticism’, The Ted Hughes Society Journal 5:2 (2016); ‘Marked by secret
knowledge: Coleridge and the mystery of “Orpheus”’, The Times Literary Supplement, 20 May
2016; ‘Poetry, Politics and Portents: Coleridge and the Waters of Plynlimon’, The Coleridge Bulletin
43 (Summer 2014); Moss, 27Z_OP_C1005; ‘Classical Music’ in Literature and Sound, ed. Anna
Snaith (CUP, 2020); ‘Ezra Pound as Music Theorist: The Treatise on Harmony’ in The Edinburgh
Companion to Ezra Pound and the Arts, ed. Roxana Preda (Edinburgh UP: 2019); ‘Popular
Culture’ in The Edinburgh Companion to D. H. Lawrence and the Arts, ed. Catherine Brown and
Sue Reid (Edinburgh UP, 2020); Roberts, 27Z_OP_C0026; 27Z_OP_A0006 (inaugural
commission for Methuen monograph series Cultural Histories of Theatre and Performance);
‘Theatre Criticism’ and ‘Jeremy Collier’ in Jack Lynch and Gary Day, eds., The Blackwell
Encyclopaedia of Eighteenth-Century Writing (2015); editorship of Congreve’s The Way of the
World in the New Mermaids series (2020); Restoration Plays and Players (2014), an introductory
monograph written at the invitation of Cambridge University Press; Trowbridge, ‘The Gothic in
Victorian Poetry’, in The Cambridge Companion to the History of the Gothic, ed. Dale Townshend
(CUP 2019); invited contributor on Elizabeth Siddall to the Palgrave Encyclopaedia of Victorian
Women’s Writing, ed. Lisa Scholl (2019).

All members of the cluster have been supported in giving invited research/conference papers,
highlights being presentations at the Shahidi Behesti University, Iran (Ananisarab), King’s College

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
London (Issa), the University of Vienna (Anderton), the University of Bielefeld and a keynote at
the 2020 Standing Conference of University Drama Departments (SCUDD) at York (Botham), the
University of Birmingham’s Shakespeare Institute (Issa, Roberts), the American University of
Beirut (Issa), the University of Durham (Howe, Trowbridge), the University of St Andrews
(Leadbetter), the University of Strasbourg (Issa) and successive presentations for the Coleridge
and Wordsworth autumn/winter schools (Leadbetter).

Our commitment to public outreach has seen numerous presentations for general audiences,
highlights of which have been talks for the Byron Society of London (Howe), the Royal
Shakespeare Company (Issa), the Keats House, Rome (Howe), the National Gallery
(Trowbridge), the Shakespeare Institute (Issa, Roberts), the British Council, Algiers (Issa, in
Arabic), with numerous talks and events at local institutions including the Birmingham Museum &
Art Gallery, the Birmingham & Midland Institute, the Birmingham REP, and the Birmingham
Hippodrome. Further events and publications with public benefit are as itemised in Issa’s
Impact Case Study and also include contributions by Leadbetter in hosting the headline Carol Ann
Duffy event for Birmingham Literature Festival (2019) and chairing events every year for the
Festival since 2011; he has had poetry and narrative commissioned for ‘Write Brummie’, BBC
Radio 4, broadcast 22/11/19; his ‘Terroir’ was commissioned for the Arts Council England funded
Overhear Poetry app, September 2019; he was Poet in Residence, King’s High School, Warwick,
2019-20. Four of his poems feature in the Spring 2020 edition of The Hudson Review; a poem from
his Maskwork collection features in Wild Court (https://wildcourt.co.uk/new-work/a-march-nest-a-
poem-by-gregory-leadbetter/). He has also contributed to Gillian Wearing’s experimental
documentary, Everything is Connected: George Eliot’s Life (10/11/2019, BBC Four) and
interviewed Alys Fowler for BBC Radio 4 (12/11/2019). Since 2008 Roberts has written regular
programme essays for the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, most recently on Literature and
Trauma (La Forza del Destino, 2019) and Inheritance Comedy (The Intelligence Park, 2019). He
has also written Hippodrome 120 (monograph anniversary history of the Birmingham Hippodrome,
2019) and programme essays for the Bristol Old Vic, Nottingham Playhouse, Birmingham Royal
Ballet and Birmingham REP. His HEA-funded project, ‘Games and the Teaching of Literature’
(https://www.advance-he.ac.uk/knowledge-hub/games-and-teaching-literature) was co-designed
with Hopkins and led to a widely used textbook for A-Level and undergraduate students, Games
for English Literature (Libri, 2016), as well as an article in Changing English vol 22 no.2 (2015).
Trowbridge has given invited talks at the Ashmolean Museum and Kelmscott Manor, advised on
and appeared in a BBC Radio 3 programme about Elizabeth Siddall (October 2019), talked about
Siddall as part of the National Portrait Gallery’s Pre-Raphaelite Sisters exhibition (2019-20) and
features in the Channel 5 series, Great Paintings of the World, fronted by Andrew Marr. Both
Trowbridge and Roberts have significant readership in The Conversation UK for features related
to COVID-19 and other topics (over 50,000 reads with onward readership in the i newspaper of
c.300,000).

Our concern to see expertise translated into public benefit is marked by external trusteeships
for Leadbetter, Trustee and Vice-Chair of The Friends of Coleridge (2009-); Board of Trustees,
Artistic Policy and Finance Sub-Committees, Writing West Midlands (2013-); Trustee (2013-17)
and Hon. Treasurer (2014-16) of the Wordsworth Conference Foundation; Board of Trustees and
Programming Sub-Committee, Wenlock Poetry Festival (2013-16); Roberts, Trustee of
Birmingham Hippodrome, 2014-20 (Deputy Chair of Audit Committee and member of Nominations
Committee); Trustee of Birmingham Repertory Theatre, 2016- (including term as interim chair,
2019-20 and membership of COVID-19 committee); Trustee of Mid-Wales Opera (2019-); and
Trowbridge, Vice-President, Pre-Raphaelite Society; Trustee and Vice President, Birmingham &
Midland Institute.

The cluster’s expertise is recognised by recent external doctoral examinerships for Botham
(King’s College London, 2018), Issa (University of New Brunswick, Canada, 2020), Leadbetter
(Goldsmiths College London, 2018; University of Birmingham, 2018; University of Leicester, 2017;
University of Aberdeen, 2017), Roberts (University of Oxford, 2017; University of Birmingham,
2017), and Trowbridge (University of Hertfordshire, 2018; University of Birmingham, 2019;
University of Liverpool, 2020).

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Collaborative projects with other universities include Anderton’s ‘Writing Homelessness in
Contemporary British Literature, 1948-2020’ with Professors Head (Nottingham) and Pleace
(York); Issa’s role as Advocacy and Engagement Consultant to Birmingham City Council and
Shakespeare Institute’s “Everything to Everybody” project (2019–); Moss’s work with the
international editorial team for The Cambridge Edition of the Fiction of E. M. Forster, consisting of
colleagues from Brown USA, Genoa, Manchester, Maynouth, Oxford and Sheffield; also her work
with the same team on the ‘Re-Orientating E. M. Forster: Texts, Contexts, Receptions’ conference
planned for Cambridge, 2-4 April 2020 but postponed owing to COVID-19; and Trowbridge’s
contributions to the organising committee at the University of Birmingham for the British
Association for Victorian Studies annual conference in 2020.

Our work has been recognised by numerous prizes and awards, among them Ananisarab’s
Oxford Bibliographies award, leading to an article on J.M. Synge (2017), and a Society for Theatre
Research award (2020) to support research on theatre festivals. Issa has achieved multiple
recognition: BBC/AHRC New Generation Thinker, 2017; winner of Times Higher Research Project
of the Year: Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences, 2019; winner of Irene Samuel Memorial Award
for best multi-authored volume, Milton Society of America, 2018, for Milton in Translation; Best
Exhibition (Highly Commended), Manchester Culture Awards, 2018, for Stories of Sacrifice;
winner, Outstanding First Book Award, Milton Society of America, 2017, for Milton in the Arab-
Muslim World; Services to Education Award (Finalist), British Muslim Awards, 2017; Excellence in
Community Relations Prize (Finalist), Muslim News Awards, 2016, for Stories of Sacrifice.
Leadbetter’s creative outputs were long-listed in both 2016 and 2019 for the National Poetry
Competition. One of our PhD students, Rosie Whitcombe, won the 2020 Keats-Shelley Essay
Prize; another, Sarah Doyle, was runner-up in the poetry category.

4.2 Linguistics cluster
National and international research initiatives have been undertaken by Kehoe as elected
member of the Executive Committee of University English (two terms: 2015-21), elected member,
of the Executive Board of the International Computer Archive of Modern & Medieval English (two
terms: 2013-21), and Member of the ESRC Peer Review College (2015-); Lawson as member of
the European Science Foundation College of Review Panel Members (2018-) and Fulbright
Funding Commission (2014-); McGlashan as Technical Editor of the Journal of Corpus
Approaches to Discourse; and Tkacukova as member of the JUSTICE Working Party ‘Assisted
Digital’: Combatting Digital Exclusion in 21st Century Justice (2017-18), as reviewer for the Nuffield
Foundation, and member of the AHRC Peer Review College (2020-).

Our linguists are active in assessing submissions for publication to Palgrave, CUP and
Routledge (Lawson) and to the journals Ampersand, Discourse, Context and Media, Gender and
Language, Journal of Borderland Studies, Journal of English Linguistics, Journal of Gender
Studies, NORMA: International Journal for Masculinity Studies, Journal of Pragmatics, International
Journal of Corpus Linguistics, Corpus Linguistics, Applied Linguistics, Discourse &
Communication, Critical Approaches to Discourse Analysis across Disciplines, Critical Discourse
Studies, Discourse, Context & Media, Journal of Aggression Conflict & Peace Research, Journal of
Early Childhood Literacy, and Text & Talk.

Recent invited scholarly essays include Lawson, ‘Managing the competing pressures of
curriculum design in HE’, with S. Wood in Educational Developments, 20 (3): 14-17 (2019), and
‘Language and masculinities: History, development, future’, in Annual Review of Linguistics, 6:
409-434 (2020); McGlashan: 'Critical Discourse Analysis: a comparison of discourses around
Romanians in The Daily Express with its readers’ comments’, with P. Baker, in The Routledge
Handbook of English Language and the Digital Humanities (2020); and McGlashan et al., ‘Disco
Divas and Heroic Knights: A critical multimodal analysis of gender roles in “create the world” LEGO
cards’, in Innovations and Challenges in Language and Gender: Women and Sexism (Routledge,
2020).

Members have presented papers by invitation at the Hochschule Trier, Germany, 2017 (Kehoe
and Gee); a keynote at the BELP conference, University of Birmingham, 2016 (Kehoe); at

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Universitat de Barcelona, Università degli Studi di Bari Aldo Moro, Universidad Nacional de
Educación a Distancia, University College Dublin, University College London, University of
Cambridge, University of Leicester, University of Tampere, Vienna University of Economics and
Business (Lawson); and the Universities of Leeds, Aston, Newcastle, and UCL (McGlashan).

External doctoral examinerships have been undertaken at the University of Gent (Kehoe, 2018)
and Trinity College Dublin (Lawson, 2018), while Lawson was Junior Visiting Professor at the
University of Jyväskylä, Finland (2019).

Our linguistics cluster has been prominent in projects with public benefit. The Impact Case
Study by Kehoe and Gee describes the significant reach of the software tools developed by
RDUES. In other work, Tkacukova’s research contribution is acknowledged in the Ministry of
Justice Post-Implementation Review of Part 1 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of
Offenders Act 2012 (LASPO); she also contributed to redrafting of the Letter of Rights for police
forces, underpinning research for which is quoted in the report by JUSTICE on Understanding
Courts. McGlashan’s work has been presented to non-academic audiences such as the Northern
Fertility Nurses Meeting, Leeds (2019), and the Cross-Government Social Media Research Group
(SMRG), Home Office (2019). Lawson has contributed an article on COVID-19 neologisms to The
Conversation UK which has been read over 145,000 times.




                                                                                        Page 13
