Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 (A) Context and Structure
 The Education Unit of Assessment (UoA) at the University of Lincoln is based in the School of
 Education, and contains two research groups which are centred on, firstly, primary and
 secondary education and, secondly, further and higher education respectively. The latter group
 also includes work undertaken by the Lincoln Higher Education Research Institute. The School
 of Education is one of six schools within the College of Social Science (see institutional
 environmental statement). The composition of the UoA has altered fundamentally in terms of
 staff, structure and focus since the last REF submission in 2014 which focused on the
 University’s Centre for Educational Research and Development, which was designed to promote
 curricula innovation in teaching and learning via engagement with research, and act as an
 independent centre for doctoral educational research. The School of Education was set up in
 2015, subsuming some activities of the Centre for Educational Research and Development. The
 dissolution of the Centre and the subsequent creation of the new School saw substantial
 personnel changes, as senior staff left and were replaced by newly recruited junior staff. The
 need to ensure the new School’s financial viability necessitated a fundamental shift away from
 the Centre’s pure research focus towards a more even balance between teaching and research
 activities. Hence, there was a broadening and updating of existing postgraduate provision. A
 new PhD (Professional) award replaced the existing EdD, and a new Masters programme was
 established, along with two PGCE School Centred Initial Teacher Training (SCITT) programmes.
 Additionally, at undergraduate level, two new degree programmes in Education, and Education
 and Psychology, were launched in September 2018.

 Hence the personnel and overall research profile for the 2021 UoA is completely different from
 that of 2014. The 2014 submission included four Professors and a Reader, all of whom
 subsequently left; moreover, of the 5 staff being submitted this time around, only two (Karran
 and Winn) were entered in the previous submission. The changes in status (from Centre to
 School), course portfolio (new post-graduate and undergraduate programs) and academic staff
 (replacement of senior staff by ECRs) have been reflected in the emergence of two new
 research groups which highlight current strengths and future areas for research excellence, viz.:
     a. Primary and secondary education – specifically focused on science education (Bailey,
         Callinan, Childerhouse, Fotou, Johnston, Lopez, Sharpe)
     b. Further and higher education – centred on the co-operative movement in HE, student
         motivation and academic freedom (Karran, Sharp and Winn).

 The impact of this profound shift in operational emphasis has affected the progress of the
 Education Unit of Assessment, with respect to achieving some of its research objectives set out
 in the REF2014 Submission. In particular, there are 5 FTE academic staff being returned in REF
 2021, compared to 6.6 in REF 2014, or around 24 per cent lower. Despite fewer staff, total
 research income actually increased by 4% from £1,663,677 to £1,729,020 in the current census
 period. Per capita, research income was £345,804 per FTE being returned, or 38% higher than
 in the previous REF period (when it was around £250k per person).

 (B) Achievement of Research Strategy
 In the 2014 submission the Centre for Educational Research and Development had five key
 priorities for the next five years. Considerable progress was made towards achieving these
 goals. However, the change in the personnel of the UoA, and the creation of the School of
 Education in 2015, has led to a change in emphasis. The key priorities were to:
 (i) develop the research groupings, and attract PhD and EdD students. Following the arrival
 of new staff, a new research group in Primary and Secondary Education was created, which
 reflected the teaching and research interests of incoming staff. The number of post-graduate
 students was sustained by replacing the EdD award by a new PhD (Professional) degree, and

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the creation of a new Masters’ degree, which is design to act as a feeder to the doctoral
 programme. The School of Education now has the largest doctoral cohort in the entire
 University. Post graduate recruitment has remained buoyant. Despite the reduction in staffing,
 the number of postgraduate students has remained stable (83 in REF2014; 81 in REF2021),
 while the number of doctoral completions has risen sharply. In the last REF period there were 14
 doctoral completions, this has more than doubled to 38 in the current reporting period. This
 improved completion rate was achieved through a strategy of targeted support for doctoral
 students, delivered via the School’s Doctoral Study Schools, in February, July and October,
 allied to better tracking of students’ progress.
 (ii) support the proportion of staff who are research active through on-going and targeted
 support for all staff. All staff produce annual Individual Research Plans, in which progress is
 assessed and targets agreed. These are supplemented by one-to-one bi-monthly progress
 meetings between each member of staff and the School’s Director of Research. Additionally,
 there has been a series of School workshops at which staff from outside the School have
 provided training on (inter alia) writing grant applications for ESRC, Leverhulme, Nuffield, etc.
 During the audit period nine new staff were recruited to teach on the new degree programmes;
 two of these staff have been included in the current REF submission. Once the new School has
 achieved critical mass, in terms of student numbers, there will be greater emphasis on
 increasing the proportion of staff employed on research profiles.
 (iii) continue to raise the proportion of international outputs – this has been achieved by
 supporting staff to produce high quality research outputs, including via a process of internal
 review of grant applications and publications, and greater engagement internationally. This has
 resulted in Inter alia) two Marie Curie Scholars (from Germany and Ghana) working in the
 School during the submission period, leading to papers in international journals like the
 Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, the European Journal of Comparative Law and
 Governance, and the Journal of Higher Education in Africa. Additionally, the possibility of
 developing new international networks has been increased by recruiting new academic staff
 from Ireland, Greece, Mexico and New Zealand.
 (iv) maximise grant income for excellent research by targeting revenue streams within and
 outside the UK. This has been achieved by successfully targeting EU grants awarding bodies–
 three of the major research projects developed within the School during the submission period
 were funded by the Erasmus + Programme and the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action. The
 number of bids in the REF2021 period was 47, of which 31% were successful. In total, around
 40% of grant income during the period was from the European Union.
 (v) increase our engagement with policy makers and other NGOs to maximise the full
 impact of our research. As part of its impact strategy, during the submission period, the School
 was pro-active in seeking engagement with potential users of its research. This strategy has led
 directly to significant high profile impact at UK and EU levels.

 Karran’s research into academic freedom in the EU, funded by a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action
 grant, led the University and College Union to commission a study of the health of academic
 freedom in the UK HE sector, as reported by its members. Karran’s report for the UCU,
 recommended an appeal to the joint ILO/UNESCO Committee of Experts on the Application of
 the Recommendation concerning the Status of Teachers, that the level of legal protection for
 academic freedom in the UK was below that advocated by UNESCO’s 1997 Recommendation
 on the Status of Higher Education Teaching Personnel, of which the UK is a signatory state. This
 recommendation was accepted at the Union’s Annual Congress in May 2017, and Karran wrote
 the UCU’s Submission to UNESCO, which was tendered in January 2019. The UK government
 responded in May 2019, and Karran then help to draft the UCU’s reply which was sent to
 UNESCO in September, 2019. In February 2020, ILO/UNESCO Secretariat advised the UCU
 that they were still awaiting the UK Government's final commentary, which had been delayed
 owing to turmoil in the UK government, and needed approval from the new Minister of State for
 Universities. In 2009 Karran had helped the Danish Academics’ Association (Dansk
 Magisterforening) make a submission to UNESCO, which directly led to a change in the law on
 academic freedom in Denmark.



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As a result of the work for the UCU, in May 2019, Karran was invited by the Committee on
 Culture, Science, Education and Media of the Council of Europe to prepare an expert report on
 Threats to academic freedom and autonomy of universities in Europe. The resultant report
 recommended that the Parliamentary Assembly draft a Council of Europe Convention on
 Academic Freedom, as a preliminary step for authorising a new protocol on academic freedom
 to the European Convention on Human Rights. This report was accepted by the Committee in
 October 2019, and accepted and approved by vote on 20th November 2020 by the Standing
 Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, at its meeting in Strasbourg.
 The recommendations now go to the Council of Ministers for implementation.

 Winn’s work with the Co-Operative College in Manchester led to plans for the creation of the
 UK’s first co-operative university. Development work was undertaken in collaboration with the
 Mondragon Co-operative University in the Basque country in Spain. This work led directly to the
 Co-operative College successfully applying through the Office for Students for probationary
 degree awarding powers, as the first Co-Operative University in the UK, although this work has
 been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

 (C) Research and Impact Strategy
 During the next five years, the School’s overarching aim is to achieve a reputation for world
 class research, known for its rigour, originality, quality and reach, which both makes an
 important contribution to the body of knowledge in the field of education (as evidenced by
 increased grant income, growing production of 4* papers and stronger post-graduate
 recruitment), and also delivers impact, via high level engagement with policy making
 organisations. To achieve these twin aims of quality research and impactful engagement, the
 School has identified the following five strategic aims:
 (i) Continue to develop the research expertise within the two existing research groups by
 making appointments when possible, in these in areas, but also build on the expertise of recently
 appointed staff and provide support to create new research groups in the areas of (inter alia)
 Special Educational Needs, linguistics and science education.
 (ii) Maintain the School’s PGR numbers and use student feedback to enhance the completion
 rate, in order to foster a vibrant and growing doctoral alumni community, which will generate
 further growth in student numbers and improvements in the School’s reputation, by means of
 personal recommendations.
 (iii) Build on our success in external income generation. Firstly, by mentoring the School’s
 new early career researchers in making major research grant applications, to funding bodies
 within the UK, but also within the European Union and beyond. Secondly, by diversifying
 sources of research funding, by making bids to an array of charitable foundations, like the Paul
 Hamlyn Foundation and the Volkswagen Foundation.
 (iv) Greater Commitment to Inter-disciplinary/Multi-disciplinary Research. To enhance its
 research profile, and enable the development of new areas of impact, the School will widen its
 disciplinary base, via further development of new research groups (as indicated in aim (i)), and
 engage in cross-school collaboration, for example, with the School of Psychology, and the
 Lincoln Institute of Health, in undertaking research to combat childhood obesity in Lincolnshire.
 (v) Greater collaboration and partnerships. The School is currently leading two major
 collaborative research projects funded by the Education Endowment Foundation (Improving
 Science Education – the ASCENTS 1-2-1 project) (with Leeds, Liverpool, UCL IoE and York as
 partners) and Erasmus+ (Assessment Companion for Thinking Skills) involving partners across
 the UK and in Finland and Latvia. Further strategic collaborations will be sought to help achieve
 research aims (i) and (iii). For example, work is underway to examine the state of academic
 freedom in Latin America, in conjunction with UNESCO’s International Institute for Higher
 Education in Latin America and the Caribbean.

 Following this period of rapid expansion of course provision and staff, the next phase of our
 research development will involve the growth of the research base by means of targeted support
 and advice for all research active staff. This will be achieved by:
     • Utilising workload planning to ensure that all staff have sufficient time for research.



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Bi-monthly one-to-one “research, enterprise and impact” meetings between staff and the
        School’s Director of Research, to provide on-going individual support and guidance
    •   Supporting staff in seeking resources to develop research activities, via the increased
        use of seed corn funding at College level.
    •   Developing grant application expertise and supporting bid writing through writing retreats,
        research workshops (covering, inter alia, developing and harvesting research impact,
        using parliamentary links for impact, generating consultancy income, bidding for ESRC
        and EU funding), allied to an internal peer review mechanism.
    •   Creating new research collaborations to facilitate interdisciplinary research, more
        especially on the back of the new Education and Psychology undergraduate award, and
        via development of existing collaborative research projects.

 (D) Approach to Enabling Impact
 The approach to enabling impact within the School has been both strategic and pro-active, and
 has been guided by the University’s and the College’s strategy. Individual Research Plans
 produced by staff now record impact-related activities and provide support for impact-related
 activities. Additionally, the College of Social Science has provided additional resources for the
 development of School impact, enabling good links to be forged between the School and the
 University’s Director of Research Impact Development. A School Impact Manager, who dealt
 with describing impact in the last submission, has acted to co-ordinate impact activities,
 including guidance and be-spoke workshops provided by the University’s Director of Research
 Impact Development, to grow and nurture the impact activities undertaken by staff in the School
 by means of the sharing of experience and the development of best practice. This is especially
 important, given that the majority of School staff have had little experience of attempting to
 develop impact from their research.

 As the School grows in size and stature, support from College and the University’s Director of
 Research Impact Development, will be sought to enable further research impact to emerge and
 be developed. The School’s impact management strategy is centred on a commitment to
 engaged, applied research, which contributes to improving the world we live in, by driving
 forward education enhancement and elevating professional practice. In pursuit of this strategy
 the School is committed to the following goals in order to achieve impact:
     1. Produce first-rate academic research to enable practical real-world solutions to current
        problems within the educational sphere.
     2. Increase public awareness and understanding of our research and disseminate it to
        relevant stakeholders and professional and practitioner communities, and the broader
        public at large.
     3. Broaden our collaboration and co-production of research with national and international
        partners, including non-governmental agencies, schools and universities, and charitable
        organisations.
     4. Understand the needs of our professional and practitioner communities and provide
        solutions that directly respond to their needs and thereby deliver impact and address
        broader societal goals.
     5. Encourage interdisciplinary enquiry within (and beyond) the University in order to
        address and solve complex issues via a multidisciplinary approach.

 2. People

 (A) Staffing strategy and staff development
 The School’s research strategy for staff is premised on building critical mass to enable the staff
 to fulfil their potential as leading academics in their respective fields. The relatively small size of
 the School enables research information to be shared easily and promotes joint working. In fact,
 many of the outputs produced within the School are joint authored, and during the audit period
 18 peer reviewed papers were produced by REF eligible staff, in conjunction with other
 members of staff, working either in the School, or elsewhere in the College of Social Science.
 Furthermore, successful research bids have been used to generate grant income for projects in
 which other staff are encouraged to participate, with the hope, and intention, of producing high

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 quality joint authored research outputs. For example, Sharpe is Principal Lead for Lincoln in the
 Education Endowment Foundation funded ASCENTS 1-2-1 Asymmetrical academic paired
 mentoring project team, which is being led by Abrahams as PI.

 This approach to research staff development has three key elements. First, to increase the
 proportion of academic staff producing research outputs of the highest quality by providing
 mentoring and support to those staff who are ECR and hence have limited experience of
 producing research outputs. Consequently, emphasis is placed on mentoring staff to nurture
 research talent, and support colleagues to build on their previous doctoral work in a way that
 promotes engagement in the research process. All staff in the School have PhDs and
 disseminating outputs through publications and conference papers based on doctoral theses is
 strongly encouraged. A system of mentoring and joint authoring is available to support Early
 Career Researchers, seeking to publish in peer-reviewed outlets. Second, to ensure that more
 experienced staff are able to support new staff in order to maximise their research outputs,
 strategic recruitment of new staff has been designed to enliven and enhance, the research
 culture and highlight new areas of research strength within the School. Third, to enrich the
 research environment, by the recruitment of new staff and postgraduate students, and through a
 system of sabbatical research leave being developed via the College. The recruitment of new
 staff has accompanied a concerted attempt to increase the number of postgraduate students
 recruited both within UK and, more especially, from abroad, in order to enhance the School’s
 global reputation for high quality postgraduate teaching. Within the submission period, the
 School has recruited PGR students from (inter alia) Algeria, China, Germany, Ghana, Ireland,
 Kuwait, Libya, Malaysia, Malta, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Vietnam. The growth in the number
 and diversity of national and international students, allied to the increase in staffing, has helped
 create a vibrant and active research environment, in which both staff and students are
 encouraged to produce research outputs. The benefits of this research strategy is evidenced by
 the number and national diversity of currently registered and completed postgraduate students
 on the doctoral programme.

 With respect to staff development, all research staff returned in the UoA have a day each week
 devoted to research activities and impact development. Additionally, as has been indicated, staff
 develop Individual Research Plans, which are revised yearly, as part of a mentoring relationship,
 with the School’s Director of Research. This collaborative process of reflection enables staff to
 deliberate on, and assess, their research and impact achievements of the past year, in the light
 of the previous IRP, and then plan and prioritise their proposed research activities for the coming
 year, in alignment with the School’s research priorities on the generation of research income, the
 production of research outputs and their dissemination via conference attendance, and the
 creation of impact. To provide support, during the year, advice and guidance is given in bi-
 monthly one to one research, enterprise, and impact meetings, between the Director of
 Research and individual staff. Internal and external training on aspects of research is available
 at University and College level, and staff are encouraged to attend. Additionally, School
 Research Awaydays are scheduled with all staff, these have focused on (inter alia) making
 research bids, preparing for the REF 2021, and developing impact, and have involved external
 speakers from other Schools, and also the university’s Director of Research Impact
 Development.

 As was previously indicated in the Overview Section, during the REF audit period, the creation of
 the new School of Education, and the new academic programmes that it subsequently
 inaugurated, completely altered the research profile of the UoA. New staff appointments cover a
 range of research areas including Special Educational Needs, linguistics and science education,
 and have significantly enhanced the School’s research profile. These ECR recruitments have
 broadened the range of topics available for doctoral supervision, thus enabling increased
 recruitment of post-graduate research students. Hence providing research and impact support is
 a central part of the School’s career development strategy for Early Career Researchers. ECRs
 are provided with early opportunities to deliver papers at the School’s triannual Doctoral Study
 Schools, and are encouraged to join the supervision team of PGR students, along with more


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experienced staff. In addition, all staff are encouraged and financially supported through the
 School, to attend international conferences, and present papers.

 (B) Research students
 A significant element of the School’s research profile is its large and successful doctoral
 programme. This includes PhD by thesis (full and part time) the EdD (part time) its replacement,
 the PhD (Professional) which was launched in 2017, with a new MA award. The table below
 shows the number of students currently on the roll, and the number that have been recruited
 and completed since the 2014 REF.


                                                        UK          EU       Overseas     On Roll
                        Enrolled (New)                  11           9          0             1
 EdD (p/t only)
                        Completed                       12          10          0
                        Enrolled (New)                   3           1          6             13
 PhD (thesis - ft)
                        Completed                        1           2         10
                        Enrolled (New)                   8           2          0             15
 PhD (thesis - p/t)
                        Completed                        0           2          0
                        Enrolled (New)                   5           3          0             37
 PhD (Prof) (p/t & f/t)
                        Completed                        0           1          0
                        Total                                                                 66

 Students are drawn from 13 countries with research interests in both the statutory and post-
 compulsory sectors. The School has an established system of supervisory support for research
 students, all of which is supplemented by materials available through the University’s Blackboard
 VLE. The number of completions has accelerated in recent years - in both 2011/12 and 2012/13
 there were three doctoral completions, but since 2014 there have been 13 PhD and 23 EdD/PhD
 (Prof) completions, and this figure is set to rise. Postgraduate students can access an array of
 teaching and training opportunities to help them develop the full range of research skills required
 in their work, including:
      • Residential study schools (two weekends, and two weeks each year, in both Lincoln and
          Mayo), which are available to all students, but focused on the part-time study mode.
      • Bi-monthly School of Education doctoral student research seminars, attended both on-
          line and on campus.

 In addition, all students are provided with the following courses by the University’s Doctoral
 School:
     • Three Researcher Education Programmes, per annum .
     • Cross-disciplinary classes in methodology from across the College of Social Science.
     • Generic training for research students – a range of specific stand-alone sessions
         provided by the Doctoral School.

 The Education UoA has been able to increase its rate of PGR completions and augment its PGR
 community by enhancing its support structure for PGR students at School level. After 4 months
 (8 months for part-time), all doctoral students submit a Confirmation of Studies (drawn up in
 collaboration with their supervisors), which details their research projects, confirms their
 supervisory team, and addresses possible ethical issues. Additionally, all doctoral students
 complete an annual training needs analysis, which identifies any gaps in students’ skills and
 recommends ameliorative actions. The Research Development Needs Analysis training
 programme at Lincoln is built around institutional membership of the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework, which is run by the Careers Research & Advisory Centre.

 Students’ Confirmations of Studies are discussed with the School PGR Lead, and the
 supervisory team to provide feedback, and scrutinized in the Schools PGR Committee. Transfer
 to PhD from MPhil status takes place at the end of the first year’s study for full time students
 (two years for p-t) when doctoral students submit a portfolio of work to a panel of three staff

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 members who consider the student’s progress and provide detailed feedback. All PGR students
 submit annual monitoring reviews, feedback is provided by the School PGR lead and the
 supervisory team, and progress is reviewed by the PGR Committee. PGR students are
 frequently consulted about their experience and feed ideas into the PGR programme, both
 directly and via their representatives and at meetings of the subject committees which are held
 during the Doctoral Study Schools. Support is provided for PGRs wishing to gain teaching
 experience, while academic career development and training is furthered by encouraging current
 (and past) students to present their research at the Doctoral Study Schools. Similarly, support is
 provided with presenting conference papers or publishing, with a growing number of students
 publishing in academic journals, with papers jointly authored with their supervisors. The School’s
 Doctoral community has also been enriched by visiting scholars who have come from Africa,
 Europe and Russia to Lincoln to work with staff in the Unit. Additionally, the School’s PGR room
 provides dedicated desk space, lockers and IT facilities for students. In sum, this portfolio of
 activities and opportunities provides comprehensive support for doctoral students’ career
 progressions.

 (C) Approach to supporting equality and diversity
 The School of Education has a strong profile of gender equality and inclusiveness, but is aware
 of the School’s lack of ethnic diversity. Currently 73% of the full-time academic staff of the
 School are female, and women constitute 40% of the UoA but while 36% of School staff are non-
 British, only 18% of staff are from the BAME community, and this is an issue that the School
 recognizes the need to address. However, the relatively small size of the school also presents
 an opportunity for all School members to gain valuable experience, by undertaking leadership
 positions and committee memberships; notably, all members of staff hold positions on
 committees, not only within the School but across the wider university. This representation helps
 promote the development of managerial experience and administrative skills, thereby promoting
 career progression opportunities for all members of staff. It is the School’s intention to
 strengthen its current policy of equality and diversity, by, for example, ensuring that staff are
 aware of their entitlements for taking maternity/paternity leave as appropriate, including shared
 parental leave and pay. In the medium and longer term, female staff will be encouraged and
 supported to apply for more senior positions in the School, by means of personal development
 plans.

 The University’s broad, collaborative approach to equality, diversity and inclusion is led by a
 cross-university centre – the Eleanor Glanville Centre (EGC). The EGC coordinates the
 institutional engagement with the Equality Challenge Unit’s Athena SWAN / Gender & Race
 Equality Charters, and provides centralised support through sharing best practice. In line with
 the University’s institutional Bronze award, the EGC is supporting the School of Education in
 moving forward to achieve Athena Swan Bronze status. At induction on appointment, and via
 mandatory training, new staff in the School are also introduced to the University’s Wellbeing
 services, which are available through drop in sessions, but can be accessed remotely. Support
 for staff and PGR students returning from leave (sickness, parental and care responsibilities) is
 available through the Pipeline Mentoring Scheme (as detailed in the university environment
 document), which includes ‘maternity mentoring’ and ‘work-life balance’ support pathways,
 alongside the more usual career progression support. Respecting University policy, academic
 staff can request flexible working arrangements, and School Heads are encouraged to respond
 sympathetically and work to achieve mutually acceptable solutions with staff.

 This strong degree of gender equality is also present in School’s student population. The
 majority of the School’s students are female - 74.5% of Postgraduate Certificate in Education
 (Primary) students, 78.5% of EdD students, 70% of PhD (Professional) students. The School of
 Education has a greater proportion of female PGR students than the sector average. The School
 recruits approximately twice as many part-time PGR students as full-time PGR students, with
 between two-thirds and three-quarters (respectively) being women in 2015/16. A snapshot in
 2015/16 revealed that 70.6% of full-time and 67.9% of part-time PGR students in the School of
 Education were women, in both cases being greater than the sector average (at 59.7% and
 62.3%, respectively). Additionally, during the audit period, students have been recruited from

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Algeria, China, Germany, Ghana, Kuwait, Libya, Malaysia, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Vietnam
 during the audit period, and the proportion of new PGR students who are BAME was 20%, which
 is not as low as that of staff, but the School recognizes that this needs improvement.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 (A) Strategies for research grant capture, and research infrastructure
 During the REF 2021 reporting period 47 grant applications were made by the School of
 Education, of which 31% were successful. To improve on this achievement, there is a dedicated
 support structure to promote grant capture at School level, which is mirrored at college and
 university levels, and assists staff in the realisation of their Individual Research Plans (see
 section 2(A) under which resources are provided for national and international conference
 attendance and allied impact activities. Such conference attendance and dissemination activities
 enable staff to develop collaborative networks to thereby initiate international grant proposals,
 and staff aspiring to make such bids receive further support. Moreover, all School staff are
 encouraged and assisted to make applications for grant funding, as part of their IRP, and are
 aided in doing so by the provision of best practice examples of successful bids and expert
 advice from the School Director of Research. At School level all staff receive one to one
 mentoring through the IRP process, to develop their initial ideas to achieve grant generation and
 subsequent impact creation. As many School staff are recent appointments, many have ECR
 status and are, therefore, given specific support by means of workloading allocations to protect
 their time for grant bidding, research dissemination and impact generation. All bids are reviewed
 internally, and then blind peer-reviewed by two reviewers at College level, to provide detailed
 expert feedback, guidance and support.

 At College level, support and guidance is also provided by the College Director of Research and
 the Business Development Manager and a dedicated administrator who assists staff in
 managing grants, and periodic reporting to funders, post-award. Further, the College Research
 Office organises intensive training workshops on bid writing (especially for ECRs), with
 experienced mentors available to support staff making their first bidding attempts. At university
 level, the delivery of Schools’ research and external income targets are supported by the PVC
 for Research and the Research and Enterprise Team, with Research Officers and Business
 Development Managers for each College. The Research and Enterprise team provides an array
 of supportive activities, these include: providing bespoke guidance on costings for bids; advising
 staff through the process of completing and submitting bids to the major funders’ on-line bidding
 systems; organising frequent training workshop on grant capture and impact creation;
 distributing details of new and current bidding rounds focused on the School of Education;
 facilitating opportunities to meet with, and listen to, representatives of national funding bodies,
 including Nuffield, Leverhulme and the ESRC; providing access to external consultants who
 provide advice on external bids; identifying potential partners for collaborative research; and
 maintaining a College-level database of successful and unsuccessful bids. Hence there has
 been sustained institutional support in the area of grant income generation. Research and
 external income targets are set annually, and delivery is supported by the PVC for Research and
 the University Research Office, with Research Officers and Business Development Managers for
 each College. In addition, each College has a Director of Research with a dedicated
 administrative support to lead and encourage a strong research culture. Within the College, each
 School has a Director of Research, who works closely with the support staff at College and
 University level.

 (B) Research Income
 Despite the large turnover of staff (many of whom were senior) following dissolution of the
 Centre and the creation of the School, total grant income held up very well and increased by 4%
 from £1,663,677 in the REF2014 period to £1,729,020 in the REF2021 period. The School of
 Education has used the support and facilities outlined above to obtain grants for its existing
 areas of strength, and to increase both the fields in which it wins research income and the range
 of award-making bodies from which it receives grants. Abrahams, for example, was successful

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in winning an EEF/Wellcome grant of £615,312. This project was developed from an internally
 funded local paired mentoring project that produced statistically significant improvement in
 mentored Year 11 GCSE students’ science results and generated significant national interest
 when the results were published. This led to the EEF/Wellcome extending the project to include
 four additional universities, (Leeds, Liverpool, UCL IoE and York) which will create a much
 larger, cross-country, impact for the research. Additionally, Wellcome reported that the fact that
 a large proportion of the undergraduate mentors in the pilot study went on to train to be local
 science teachers has raised government interest. Hopefully, the continued development of such
 impact, as the project proceeds, will provide a firm foundation for subsequent bids and a case
 study for the next REF. In addition, Backhouse won an EU Erasmus grant of €397,268, with six
 collaborators in Finland, Latvia and the UK. The three year project is centred on supporting
 teachers in improving pupils’ thinking skills through student centred and problem based
 approaches in science and mathematics teaching.

 Furthermore, School staff have also won awards, and small grants whose income is not reported
 through HESA, but which have contributed to developing the international and collaborative
 research culture of the UoA and its publications and impact strategies. For example, Winn
 received a small grant (£4525) from the Independent Social Research Foundation for further
 work on developing a model for co-operative high education, which forms the basis of one of the
 Education UoA’s impact case study. Similarly, Karran was commissioned (£13,500) to undertake
 a study of academic freedom in the UK HE sector, which supported the development of the other
 impact case study within the Education UoA.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 (A) Research Networking
 Despite its recent creation and small size, the staff in the School are well-connected via an array
 of collaborative networks stretching geographically beyond Lincoln (as staff have been recruited
 from Greece, Ireland, Mexico and New Zealand) and to policy domains beyond the HE sector.
 These networks are central to the research publications and subsequent impact of staff in the
 UoA and relate both to its established area of expertise in further and higher education, and to
 new and emerging areas of strength in primary and secondary education, especially science
 education. As with impact, so with collaboration, staff are encouraged to devise plans for
 research collaboration through the development and implementation of Individual Research
 Plans and also promote a collaborative approach in grant capture, project management,
 publications’ dissemination and impact generation.

 The School’s research activities have interdisciplinary resonance, and there is considerable
 collaboration between School staff and the other departments, both in the College of Social
 Science and across the university. For example Karran’s work on legislative protection for
 academic freedom in the EU is closely aligned with human rights research in the Law School,
 while staff have also collaborated with researchers in a range of other institutions, including
 Abrahams’s EEF project on Improving Science Education which includes the University of
 Leeds, University of Liverpool; UCL Institute of Education and the University of York each of
 whom will run an up-scaled version of the Randomised Control Test pilot, and will recruit seven
 secondary schools, 77 STEM undergraduates, and 154 disadvantaged students. Similarly,
 Backhouse’s Erasmus+ funded project on Assessment Companion for Thinking Skills is
 developing strategic partnerships for school education and involves the Let’s Think Forum (a
 registered charity of academics, teachers and tutors), the Carter Community School (a multi-
 trust academic in Poole) in the UK, the Department of Teacher Education at the University of
 Turku and the Kirkonkyla School in in Finland, and the TA Group (whose expertise includes
 teaching education, and the development of instructional materials), and the Daugavpils Russian
 Lyceum in Latvia.




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (B) Collaborations with professional networks and associations:
 School staff are well integrated into a variety of teaching and learning research networks and
 professional associations. During the REF period, Amsler was a Visiting Professor and
 Consultant for the Open Society Institute, for Budapest and Central Eurasian Region. Karran is a
 member of the International Academic Freedom Advocacy Team run by the international NGO,
 the Scholars at Risk Network, and head- quartered at New York University, which includes
 scholars from the University of Ghana, the Max Planck Institute Munich, the Niger Delta
 University, the Illinois Wesleyan University, the Université Saint-Joseph, Lebanon, Geneva
 University and Istanbul Bilgi University. During the audit period two members of the Scholars at
 Risk International Advocacy Team worked in the School as Marie Curie Intra-European and
 International Incoming Scholars. Abrahams is an active participant in the Institute of Physics and
 the European Science Education Research Association. All members of the School are
 accredited members of the Higher Education Academy, and are actively encouraged to seek the
 higher tiers such as Senior Fellowships.

 (C) Research Dissemination and Impact Development
 Staff have been invited to speak at a varied range of academic conferences, seminars and
 colloquia. For example, Abrahams gave invited keynote speeches in Ireland, at Maynooth
 University (on Making Practical Work Effective); in Seoul, South Korea at the KASE conference,
 (on Breaking the boundaries between ‘hands-on’ and ‘minds-on’ science); in Portugal, at the III
 International Symposium of Science Teaching at the University of Minho (on Motivating students
 towards science); and in Germany at the 23rd Symposium on Chemistry and Science Education
 at Dortmund University of Technology. Karran gave a invited presentations on academic
 freedom: at the University and College Union Annual Congress in Brighton; at the
 Forskerforbundet Forskningspolitisk (Norwegian Association of Researchers) Seminar in Oslo;
 to the Swiss Academy of Arts and Sciences in Bern; at the Council of Europe’s Global Forum on
 ‘Academic Freedom, Institutional Autonomy, and the Future of Democracy’ at the Council of
 Europe in Strasbourg; the Global Public Policy Institute in Cologne; and at the Scholars at Risk
 Conference at Villa Decius, in Krakow. Winn gave keynote/plenary presentations at the Student
 as Producer Conference in Newcastle, and at the Reimagining the University Conference at
 Cheltenham. Sharpe was an invited keynote speaker at the ASE Annual Conference in Liverpool
 and at the Royal Institute of Great Britain.

 (D) Academic Duty and Discipline Development:
 School staff have played a growing role in the development of their disciplines. The majority of
 staff within the Centre undertake peer review duties for a varied array of academic journals
 including the African Journal of Research in Mathematics, Science and Technology Education
 (Abrahams), British Journal of Sociology (Amsler), Chemistry Education Research and Practice
 (Abrahams), Comparative Political Studies (Karran), Comparative Sociology (Amsler), Critical
 Criminology (Winn), Critical Education (Winn), Critical Studies in Education (Amsler), Eliss:
 Enhancing Learning in the Social Sciences (Abbas), Higher Education (Amsler, Karran), Higher
 Education Policy (Karran), Higher Education Research and Development (Abbas), International
 Journal of Critical Pedagogy (Amsler), International Journal of Science and Mathematics
 Education (Abrahams), International Journal of Science Education (Abrahams), Journal for
 STEM Education Research (Sharpe), Journal of Education Policy (Winn), Journal of Research in
 Science Teaching (Abrahams), Journal of Research on Educational Effectiveness (Sharpe),
 Journal of Youth Studies (Abbas), Learning, Media and Technology (Winn), Open Library of
 Humanities (Winn), Power and Education (Winn), Prospects: Quarterly Review of Comparative
 Education (Karran), Research in Science & Technological Education (Abrahams), Science
 Education (Abrahams), Sociology (Amsler), Studies in Higher Education (Karran), Teaching in
 Higher Education (Abbas), tripleC : Communication, Capitalism and Critique (Winn).

 (E) Relationships with Research Beneficiaries
 Through their research activities, school staff have had a major impact on an array of research
 beneficiaries. Abrahams’s work in progress on the use of asymmetrical paired mentoring to
 improving GCSE science attainment amongst disadvantaged students has the potential to have
 an outstanding impact on secondary school students at both national and international levels.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Karran’s work on academic freedom has moved thinking on the topic forward in many different
 countries and he was the author of an appeal by the UCU to UNESCO against the UK’s legal
 protection for academic freedom and a recommendation to the Committee on Culture, Science,
 Education and Media of the Council of Europe, to draft an additional protocol on academic
 freedom to the European Convention on Human Rights. Abbas’s project has provided insights
 into the challenges facing different student groups in higher education and contributed to the
 development of policy makers’ approaches to widening participation. Winn’s work on the
 creation of a Co-operative University, has been given additional impetus by the 2017 Higher
 Education and Research Act which enables the creation of new universities as challengers to
 current provision. The Co-operative College in Manchester used Winn’s research to inform their
 application for Degree Awarding Powers to the Office for Students and as a part of his
 collaboration with the College, he supported their running of a national conference in 2017 on
 ‘Making the Co-operative University’. In addition, Professor Mike Neary, who was included in the
 REF2014 but has since retired (though remains an Emeritus Professor), continues to work very
 closely with the Co-operative College, and has acted as Chair of the Interim Academic Board of
 the emerging Co-Operative University.




                                                                                          Page 11
