Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Stirling
 Unit of Assessment: 6 Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and structure

 The Institute of Aquaculture (IoA) has one the world’s largest concentrations of expertise
 dedicated to aquaculture leading research on farmed and natural fish stocks, shellfish and aquatic
 plants. It brings together cross-disciplinary teams and approaches to tackle the diverse range of
 challenges faced by the world’s fastest growing food production sector. Our mission is to deliver
 the research and provide innovative solutions to transform the global aquaculture sector
 to achieve greater sustainability, enhance food security and deliver resilience of aquatic
 species and ecosystems in a changing world. Our work encompasses fundamental and
 applied research that ranges from biological discovery, through optimisation of farm production to
 the development of modern commercial markets and the provision of urgently needed support to
 communities in developing countries.

 Our uniqueness and diverse mix of passionate and highly skilled people, coupled with a wide
 range of state-of-the-art facilities enable us to work with the diversity of species, life stages,
 systems, and environments reflecting aquaculture practices. We have an extensive network of
 collaborators established through our research and training programmes and incorporating our
 own alumni, spanning academia, industry, government and non-government organisations
 (NGOs) all over the world. This network supports close links with the world’s leading companies
 and International organisations working in the sector. Impact is at the centre of everything we do,
 working closely with stakeholders in industry, practice and policy, to translate our fundamental
 science into sustainable solutions, whilst nurturing and training the next generation of talent for
 the future of global aquaculture.

 Strategic investments from the University of Stirling have been made at the IoA to tackle the global
 challenges of the 21st Century by recruiting new staff in priority research areas and upgrading our
 aquaria to capitalise on technological advances. Researchers have delivered science-based
 solutions evidenced by changes in industry practices and policies of aquaculture (e.g. new
 biological sea lice control implemented globally within the salmon sector, carrying capacity of
 aquaculture ecosystems and practice, and new regulation in the EU Common Fisheries Policy for
 prawn capture fisheries – see Impact Case Studies).

 Developments since REF 2014 include:

    •   IoA won the coveted Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education in 2019
        in recognition of the impact and international reach of our research on aquaculture. This
        work has improved the sustainability, economy and health and welfare of farmed stocks.
        This prestigious award highlighted our research commitment to develop innovative
        solutions for the sustainable development of aquaculture and realise benefits across
        species, communities, governments and industry;

    •   Ten new strategic appointments were made to strengthen core aspects of our research
        and teaching activities and expand our expertise in new and emerging priority areas to
        address global challenges (climate change; fish cognition and behaviour; policy and
        governance including the appointment of the Head of IoA who is the current Chief Scientific
        Advisor to UK Government);

    •   The IoA gained an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2020 acknowledging our commitment
        to advancing the diverse range of colleagues’ careers including women’s development in
        senior levels of science;




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   IoA realised a step change in research grant success with income reaching £19.3m of
        grant award value over the REF period. This represents a 1.7-fold increase over the
        previous REF coupled to a 35% success rate for project grants;

    •   The University invested ca. £1.7m across our three experimental facilities supporting
        freshwater, marine, tropical and temperate research and innovation and including a new
        state-of-the-art hatchery and a large-scale Recirculating Aquaculture System (£790k) for
        fundamental and industry relevant research. New marine research capability (£830k) was
        enhanced by an extended building with state-of-the-art experimental tank systems and a
        new temperate unit (£100k) in a major development of our facilities. Three new permanent
        technical staff have increased our capability and resilience;

    •   The IoA attracted UK and Scottish Government’s funding of £17m through the City Region
        Deal to invest in capital infrastructure to lead the National Aquaculture Technology and
        Innovation Hub.

 Research Strategy

 Our aim is to deliver fundamental and applied science that drives increased resilience,
 sustainability and security (Figure 1) in the global aquaculture sector. Our strategy to achieve
 this is by developing a structure within the Institute whereby three interconnected research groups
 (Environment, Health and Production) align their efforts with national and international
 development priorities. This approach has enabled researchers (29.83 FTE) to prioritise their
 research agenda, better integrate their skills and gain agility to focus on the most pressing aquatic
 sustainability challenges such as food security, sustainability including net-zero emissions and
 ecosystem health, and resilience.




 Figure 1. IoA interactions between our research groups (circles), external priorities (green text)
 and core mission (oval).



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The focus and achievements of each research group during the REF period are described below:

 i) Production

 The Production Research Group addresses the interplay between genetics, environment, feeds
 and welfare in farmed species throughout the major life-cycle events with direct impact on the
 global aquaculture industry. The advances in production through manipulating commercial traits
 such as reproduction; sex determination and differentiation; early development, growth
 and smoltification (sea water adaptation of juvenile salmon) is achieved using the latest genetic,
 genomic and bioinformatic technologies in association with phenotyping. The development of
 sustainably sourced feeds is at the heart of the research with a particular focus on the metabolism
 of omega-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and the development of novel feed
 ingredients

 The group has strong linkages and collaboration with the selective breeding, aquafeeds,
 aquaculture production, pharmaceutical and retail sectors where basic research findings are
 directly translated and adopted globally into solutions for enhanced sustainability. The group has
 active research collaborations across Europe, South America, China, New Zealand, Australia,
 India and South East Asia demonstrated by joint publications during the REF period.

 Impact and Research Highlights of the Production Research Group

 This group has consolidated its staff numbers with the recruitment of four new academics at
 different career stages to expand areas of excellence and put in place succession planning. A new
 Professor in aquaculture nutrition strengthened the groups expertise in feed formulation using
 innovative ingredients to support the global expansion of the aquaculture sector. New lecturers
 have brought additional expertise in invertebrate physiology, salmonid physiology and aquaculture
 nutrition.

 Recent research includes the domestication of cleaner fish species for sea lice control in salmon
 (Impact Case Study 1); new quantitative trait loci for understanding sex determination and
 manipulate gender in farmed aquatic organisms to improve productivity of the farming sectors;
 novel oils obtained from microalgae and genetically engineered crops that provide PUFAs into
 more sustainable salmon feeds; the first demonstration of nutritional programming in salmon for
 enhanced efficiency of alternative vegetable rich diets with lower environmental impact resulting
 in enhanced acceptability, digestibility and performance of farmed stocks; the study of gene editing
 for fish sterility and the impact of recirculation aquaculture systems on fish robustness.

 Over the REF period, the group has been successful in securing large grant research income to
 support the sustainable transformation of the global aquaculture from BBSRC/NERC, Innovate
 UK, SAIC, and EU. Stirling pioneered research in fish sterility (BBSRC/Innovate UK, Total
 £2.036m, £751k to Stirling); the development of new genomic tools for commercially important
 species and traits (BBSRC/NERC, Total £1.5m, £238k); cleaner fish domestication (SAIC,
 Innovate UK and H2020, Total £15.4m, £2.7m to Stirling); shellfish hatchery (SAIC); fish
 robustness in Recirculation Aquaculture Systems (BBSRC/NERC, Total £1.8m, £670k to
 Stirling); nutritional programming (H2020 and BBSRC, Total £7.5m, £1.4m to Stirling); solutions
 to global PUFAs application in aquaculture, including development of new raw materials, for
 example, GM-plant (BBSRC); microalgal (BBSRC-IPA); freshwater macrophyte and bacterial
 (BBSRC Newton Fund) oil sources; refining our understanding of PUFA metabolism in fish
 (BBSRC-IPA, EU H2020), and assessing impacts of changes in use of PUFA on fish quality
 attributes (BBSRC, EU H2020, Industry). The group developed and leads the Aquaculture
 Research Collaborative Hub in the UK (ARCH UK, BBSRC/NERC, Total of £580k, £393k to
 Stirling) which built the first UK wide aquaculture community and developed a strategic research
 agenda.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ii) Health

 The Health Research Group addresses issues of finfish and shellfish health and welfare with a
 focus on: i) prevention and control of infectious diseases; ii) monitoring for and ensuring optimal
 welfare of farmed stocks; and iii) optimising ethical production. The knowledge and tools that we
 have provided have served to remove or ameliorate major constraints to aquaculture and wild
 fishery sustainability and resilience globally. Programmes exist in emerging infectious disease,
 chemo- and immuno-therapy, control of bacterial/parasitic disease and drug resistance, disease
 diagnostics, welfare, behaviour, fish and shellfish physiology, ecotoxicology, veterinary pathology,
 epidemiology and fish immunology and vaccinology. We participate and lead many international
 collaborative partnerships and networks worldwide, involving academic, regulatory, industry, value
 chain, NGO and consumer stakeholders.

 Impact and Research Highlights of the Health Research Group

 Ethical aquaculture production is a major priority across the value chain. We have built research
 capacity to address the emergent challenges of animal welfare in aquaculture. Our fundamental
 research in understanding of fish adaptability, choice and cognition (EU, Total €4.5M; £290K to
 Stirling), has led directly to changes in management practices (The Norwegian Seafood Research
 Fund (FHF), Norway), accreditation and guidance, e.g. RSPCA-assured industry standards,
 United Nations FAO Technical Guidelines. Research into post-catch survival of discarded
 Norwegian lobsters (Fisheries Innovation Scotland; £170K to Stirling) has supported a UK landing
 exemption within EU Common Fisheries Policy (see Impact Case Study 2).

 Sea lice cost global aquaculture >£700m p.a. With growing awareness of increasing drug
 resistance in sea lice, the development of novel sea lice vaccines targeting mucosal immunity
 (SAIC, Total £497K, £262K to Stirling), and understanding the molecular basis of drug resistance
 in salmon lice (BBSRC, £443K to Stirling) are at the vanguard of parasitic control in salmon
 aquaculture. Alternative approaches include the novel use of ultrasound to control sea lice (KTP
 /Innovate UK/BBSRC; £323.5K); and genomic breeding for gill health and lice resistance in salmon
 (SAIC / Industry, Total £1.07m, £121K to Stirling). Amoebic gill disease in salmon has also been
 targeted through development of novel vaccines, in research conducted for EU (EU H2020, Total
 €7.8m, £305K to Stirling).

 We are addressing antimicrobial resistance internationally (e.g. India, Vietnam), by eliminating
 barriers to uptake of alternatives to antibiotics (IDRC-Canada £665K; £443K to Stirling). In the UK,
 we are improving disease resistance to major pathogens (e.g. F. psychrophilum), in salmonids
 through novel vaccines (SAIC, Total £759K, £344K to Stirling) and improved vaccination strategies
 for a range of species (SAIC, Total £285K, £119.5K to Stirling).

 Improved detection, control and biosecurity have been achieved though establishment of optimal
 diagnostic windows for viruses, linked with new point-of-care rapid detection methods (e.g.
 NERC/BBSRC Total £264K, £164K to Stirling). Understanding microbiome dynamics is critical to
 health and we have programmes including responses to chemotherapy (FHF, total £1.2m, £466K
 to Stirling), use of functional feeds (Innovate UK, Total £10m and £1.03m to Stirling) and
 microbiomes of farmed animals (EU, Total €10m, £97K to Stirling).

 iii) Environment

 The Environment Research Group supports informed decision-making about how aquaculture
 uses, impacts, and is influenced by the environment. Our systems approach encompasses the life
 cycle from ‘farm to fork’. We work in freshwater, coastal, and marine environments, covering
 different spatial scales from global to individual organisms. Bringing together biological, ecological,
 social, and technological aspects, our group transcends disciplines, addressing real-world
 multifactorial issues that industry, regulators, and other stakeholders face. We also investigate the
 broader concepts of sustainable aquaculture and its role in food security, as well as its transition
 to a more circular economy, under an uncertain future of climate change. Environmental models,

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 remote measurement and monitoring, fieldwork, laboratory experiments, and tank trials underpin
 our research. Our group brings together experts in ecology, ecotoxicology, animal welfare,
 socioeconomics and environmental governance.

 We lead a wide range of research on ecosystem sustainability, environment interactions, animal
 welfare, climate change, food security and poverty alleviation, and international trade. We are
 leading projects in Europe, Latin American ODA countries, Southeast Asia, and China – where
 most seafood is farmed – and in Africa, where demand is rising rapidly. Strategic partnerships
 formed with NGOs, regulatory bodies, civic society, national- and worldwide industries have co-
 created resilient value chains for nutritious food in developing and developed countries.

 Impact and Research Highlights of the Environment Research Group

 Meeting our mission of “increasing the sustainability, resilience and security of global aquaculture”
 has been accelerated by four appointments to this research group. Two new Professors provide
 leadership in understanding how climate change and environmental governance impacts future
 development of sustainable aquaculture, while complimenting existing research.

 Our group has coordinated interdisciplinary projects to develop decision support tools and
 methods for environmental licensing and regulation (EU H2020 £6.1m, £795k Stirling; Leverhulme
 Africa Grant, £180K), leading to demonstrable changes in aquaculture governance in Europe and
 Africa (Impact Case Study 3). The “Accessibility and Connectivity” of this research was
 recognised by winning the EU Atlantic Project Award 2017. Aquaculture for conservation using
 market-led approaches has, with commercial partners’ in the UK, initiated local research and
 public awareness through annual Oyster Festivals in Sierra Leone (DEFRA £250k). Climate
 change research (NERC Research Fellowship, £462k) and adaptation planning (EU H2020
 £4.7m, with £240k Stirling) led to changes in marine farm management practices for fish and
 shellfish in relation to short- and long-term climate variability. Research into movement of
 aquaculture offshore, away from crowded coasts, provided industry and regulators with insight into
 the effects these new environments have on fish health and welfare, allowing more informed
 planning and management (BBSRC £1,1m, £165K Stirling). Research on negative impacts of
 aquaculture intensification have changed practice in the welfare and treatment of farmed shrimp,
 winning the prestigious 2020 Global Aquaculture Innovation Award. Eco-intensification research
 for European aquaculture (EU H2020 £5.4m, £395k Stirling) has allowed improvements in
 production and competitiveness, while ensuring sustainability and food safety and environmental
 compliance. More recently, research to support multi-stakeholder approaches to sustainable
 aquaculture development in Europe and Asia (EU H2020 £1.8m, £202k to Stirling), have
 strengthened intersectoral cooperation between seafood value chain members.

 Future Strategy

 Our vision is to create the National Aquaculture Technology and Innovation Hub (NATIH) with
 the £17m investment secured from the City Region Deal. The IoA will play a critical role in the
 development of this unique infrastructure. The NATIH will capitalise on IoA expertise and our
 network to create a unique platform nationally, co-located with innovators and industry on Stirling
 campus. Our goal is to expand strategic partnerships to innovate and transform aquatic systems
 research and realise the full impact of our collaborative research for industry, policy and society.
 This strategy will include a circular economy and whole systems approach, cross sector
 engagement, innovation and collaboration for capacity building and integrated solutions to national
 and international priorities using smart technologies (e.g. UK net-zero strategy, sustainable
 development goals). We seek to fully integrate aquaculture at the heart of the national UK food
 strategy. The centre will integrate with Scotland’s new International Environment Centre, a £22m
 investment from the City Region Deal also hosted by the University of Stirling which, will provide
 opportunity for interdisciplinary bridging.

 Our ambitious aim to lead in developing climate smart and resilient aquaculture and precision
 farming initiatives is supported by the provision of real-world experimental and commercially

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 relevant aquaria. Our strategy will capitalise on recent and planned upgrading of our facilities and
 new strategic appointments in environmental sciences, behaviour, policy and governance, and
 genetics as well as succession planning for our core research areas (nutrition, health and
 production). We will grow our collaboration closely with governments, industry and organisations
 both in the UK and around the world.

 Impact Strategy

 Impact lies at the heart of the IoA, and we have further intensified impact within our research
 culture through the Faculty of Natural Science’s Impact Strategy. This has three main objectives:
 to improve impact literacy through training and the sharing of best practice, enabling identification
 of a wide range of potential and ambitious impact objectives; to maintain an impact support
 structure; and, to recognise and track impact as it happens. To achieve these objectives, we
 appointed Impact Champions at both professorial and ECR level within the IoA who coordinate
 with the Faculty’s Associate Dean of Impact and the Faculty Impact Committee. Our Impact Case
 Study leads act as impact ambassadors, sharing knowledge, skills, connections and insights
 gained during their journeys to successful impact creation. We share our best practice and learn
 from others across the institution through engagement with Impact Champions in other faculties
 and divisions and the institutional Impact Working Group. The importance of impactful research
 for the IoA is recognised and rewarded within the Achieving Success process and as a criterion
 for research leave.
 2. People Staffing strategy

 Our staffing strategy has been to strengthen and grow our core research areas by developing our
 existing academic and research staff and by appointing outstanding scientists who bring added
 value, address emergent priorities and build capacity. Ten new strategic appointments (Figure 2)
 have been made during the REF period equally split between core expertise (nutrition (n=2);
 invertebrate physiology (n=1); salmonid physiology (n=1); parasitology (n=1), pathobiology (n=1))
 and new areas required for significant contribution to global challenges (animal behaviour (n=1);
 climate change (n=2); innovation in policy and governance (n=1)).

                                                          Figure 2. Current staff profile, as of 2020
                                                          census, with gender data. Total number
                                                          of people in each category with number of
                                                          new appointments and promotions in
                                                          each category.

 The appointment of a new Director heralded ambitious plans to widen the IoA’s mission expanding
 our capacity to influence policy and regulation. As a UK Government Chief Scientific Adviser for
 the Marine Management Organisation and former Chair of the Scottish Government’s Marine
 Scotland Science Advisory Board, the new Head enhances the IoA’s reputation as a leader in
 aquatic food resilience.

 Staff development

 The University’s annual review and appraisal framework (Achieving Success) enables staff to
 prioritise research goals according to their career stage. This framework supports the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers and its associated principles of which the
 University of Stirling became a signatory in 2019. We have consolidated this process to include
 two of the three research groups heads at each annual review, currently we are running six
 monthly reviews during COVID-19 lockdown. Annual review identifies development training needs
 in an inclusive, equitable and transparent manner, supporting high quality research through policy
 and practise. Our review process supports long-term staff development by providing a bespoke
 route for academic development. Since 2017, uptake of this process in Aquaculture was 100% for
 all academic and professional support staff. From an Aquaculture staff survey (2019), 68% of
 respondents (n=16/24F and n=25/36M) agreed that they were aware of training and support for
 their career progression. Other practises include supporting flexible working hours around family

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commitments, where our data show 68% of staff (n=19/24F and 22/36M) agree that they felt
 supported when requesting flexible working. Monthly research group meetings provide further
 support to ensure agreed objectives remain achievable and provide early opportunity to discuss
 work-related problems. These meetings provide a participatory forum to discuss grant
 development, manuscript review, journal club debates and research student progression. A final
 layer of support is embedded into our interdisciplinary research group discussion forums to
 develop cross-disciplinary initiatives. These are led by early and mid-career researchers,
 contributing to valuable leadership mentoring, and serve to incubate future transversal research
 themes and future leaders.

 For early career researchers a senior colleague and mentor are assigned for specific personalised
 support. During probation teaching loads and administrative duties are kept low providing an
 optimum environment for research consolidation and development. ECRs are actively encouraged
 to participate in the wide range of personal and career development courses offered by the
 University. All staff are encouraged to attend courses and develop their skills on academic grant
 writing; computing and IT courses; teaching skills; training in leadership and management;
 technical courses; and many more. During the REF period, IoA core staff (n=4) carried out senior
 leadership and management programmes organised by the Institute of Leadership and
 Management.

 We proactively seek opportunities for early career researchers to apply for research fellowships,
 especially where they add depth to ongoing research areas. We mentor applications for
 fellowships, with draft applications reviewed and practice talks and interviews offered to enhance
 performance. The IoA has hosted 35 research postdoctoral research assistants and one NERC
 fellow during the REF period. The NERC fellow has been consolidated in a tenure track
 agreement. Several researchers (n=5) have successfully continued their research as Principal
 Investigators on external grants.

 There are 8 Emeritus Professors currently at the IoA who provide mentorship, sponsorship,
 dissemination activities and strategic council across the 3 research groups. Selection of honorary
 staff is based upon strategic relevance to advance our research mission. We have one Honorary
 Professor who forms a cross-disciplinary Nutrition team that co-developed research in GM-
 replacement oil for salmon feeds with the honorary Professor providing essential expertise in plant
 biology. Currently, a further two honorary senior lecturers, health management in aquaculture,
 based in Thailand and Chile provide a direct link to the dynamic SE Asian and South American
 aquaculture sectors.

 Research students

 The IoA admitted a total of 76 doctoral students and awarded 74 doctoral degrees during the REF
 period. Admissions represent an average of ca 11 per year (2014-20). Our graduate strategy
 focuses on balancing academic excellence and potential with project impact. We actively recruit
 international PhD students (overall 43% are from overseas, many benefitting from Commonwealth
 scholarships n=8) and involve Industrial partners, e.g. BioMar, MOWI, AquaGen with fundamental
 research directly translated into industry. Many industry-sponsored PhD projects substantially
 benefit from additional funding from industry partners including access to commercial facilities.
 Through University of Stirling funding a significant number of match-funded PhD scholarships
 (n=14; 50% University:50% Industry funding) have allowed us to both capitalise upon our existing
 industry partnerships and develop new partnerships. These PhD projects facilitated access to
 large-scale facilities for industrial scale trials (on-farm) with salmon and feed producers such as
 MOWI, Scottish Seafarms, Cooke Aquaculture and BioMar, and access to the most advanced
 technologies and purpose-built prototypes for research (e.g. LED lighting systems with Philips).
 Other projects involved SMEs, such as EuroPharma Ltd. that developed novel diagnostic
 biomarkers, Pulcea Ltd. that deploys marine physics and medical devices to deliver technical
 innovations and Otterfery SeaFish Ltd., the only marine hatchery in the UK, all providing
 knowledge transfer and training to emerging business.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our international partnerships have proven fruitful with PhD research shared with organisations in
 Europe (8) and world (25). This is reflected in our PhD student demographics with 27% UK, 30%
 EU and 43% Overseas. Our capture of British Council-Newton Mosharafa PhD scholarships are
 very successful with Egypt (n=5) and have increased our significant cohort of African students
 including Nigeria (n=6), Libya (n=1), Uganda (n=1), Angola (n=1) and South Africa (n=1). Asian
 PhD students (n=9) mainly funded by Government and Commonwealth account for almost 10%
 of our PhDs with Bangladesh (n=1), Thailand (n=2), Indonesia (n=1), Philippines (n=1), China
 (n=2), Taiwan (n=1) and India (n=1). Strategic international collaborations have provided financial
 and educational support for including the University of Bergen in Norway (n=3), the non-profit
 research organisation, Worldfish (n=2), the largest Brazilian research organisation, the Brazilian
 Agriculture Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) (n=1) and EU funding (n=3). Our diverse PhD
 community is a reflection of our proactive approach to maintaining our research vibrancy through
 our substantial International network.

 The IoA participates in two UKRI funded Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP). The East of
 Scotland Bioscience DTP (EASTBIO) established in 2012 with BBSRC funding was joined by IoA
 in 2019. Our partnership acknowledges our track record and strong links with the commercial
 sector and support our high-quality bioscience training in aquaculture. The second DTP is the
 Scottish Universities Partnership for Environmental Research (SUPER). This NERC-funded DTP
 is led by the Marine Alliance for Science and Technology for Scotland (MASTS) and is built around
 eight well-established collaborative groups of Scottish universities delivering research in natural
 environmental science. Each partner institution addresses cutting-edge scientific challenges
 across the NERC remit in topics as diverse as environmental physics and chemistry, biodiversity,
 global change and mathematical modelling of populations and ecosystems. Our membership of
 both DTPs delivers interdisciplinary training with interacting PhD student cohorts through
 collaborative research accessing expertise and research facilities across Scotland. Since 2019,
 four IoA based PhD students were awarded these highly competitive DTP studentships. The
 successful students are jointly supervised by academics from at least two DTP member
 universities and UK industry, thereby embedding research impact in their training.

 Our PGR supervision draws from a wide range of backgrounds and disciplines reflecting our
 research. All PGR students have a primary and secondary Stirling-based supervisor to ensure
 resilience and additional supervisors are allocated for multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary
 projects where extended expertise is required. There is a formal annual review process of both
 the student’s progress and supervision. Reviews are carried out by the PGR panel that is formed
 by three senior academics from each research group. An integral part of our PGR training is drawn
 from the University’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS). The IAS provides the Skills Development
 Programme that offers training courses and workshops for both students and supervisors. The
 Programme framework acts as an aid to planning, promoting and enhancing professional and
 career development and a discussion hub drawing from the experience of successful researchers.
 Feedback allows us to modify our approach to supervision and is reviewed annually. Recently, we
 have modified our process, from PRES feedback, aiming at 1st year PhDs where a mini progress
 review is now undertaken after 6 months of study and followed with a critical assessment at 10-
 14 months by the PGR panel. Here, data collection, future planning including contingencies and
 a seminar are requirements. Informally, regular journal clubs are held at the level of research
 group to develop critical review skills and to push boundaries and promote interdisciplinary
 thinking.

 The IoA organises a biannual PhD conference that is open to external stakeholders and external
 collaborators – around 50-60 of the 150-200 attendees are external to the University. The event
 has grown in popularity with an increasing number of stakeholders from a wide range of industries
 and organisations using this occasion to recruit PGRs. At the same time, PGRs receive valuable
 feedback from end-users on their research that facilitates impact during the lifetime of their studies.
 This activity parallels with our Aquaculture Student Association (ASA). ASA, formed and run by
 PGR students (MSc and PhD), organises social events. ASA leads and organises the ‘Aquaculture
 Careers Day’, a one-day annual event that provides networking opportunities with the aquaculture
 industry and a wide range of sector operators including local business. Since 2018 this event has

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been open to all UK students involved in aquaculture research. In 2019, exhibitor stalls from over
 15 international companies and 10 invited speakers with approximately 100 people participated in
 this successful employability forum.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Changes in our organisation and management practises promote an improved culture of care
 throughout all academic career stages. Examples of positive changes are evidenced by an
 increase in academic female staff (T&R) from 25% in 2014, to 30%. In 2020, the IoA gained a
 Bronze Level Athena SWAN award, which recognises our commitment towards a more equitable,
 diverse and inclusive culture. From 2017/18, committee membership within Aquaculture was
 refreshed to promote gender equality with an increase in the number of female leads within our
 committees, e.g. PGR, L&T as well as the first female HOD. In 2017/18, a series of 1-hour training
 seminars, specific to IoA activities and organised twice yearly, was initiated to promote best
 practises in research ethics, biological safety, general health and safety, and these are well-
 attended by all staff and students.

 Further evidence of positive change towards a more diverse culture in Aquaculture can be seen
 through our promotional materials and inclusion of more representative role models within our
 website. These reflect the international nature of our staff and students as well as provide
 opportunities for technical support staff to act as role models. The IoA has an active and diverse
 outreach programme where we promote our research activities via Science Fairs, Widening
 Participation Schemes as well as UoS open days. Staff of all grades are encouraged to promote
 equality and diversity within and beyond the IoA. An example is a member of the IoA academic
 staff who is the co-chair of the Steering Group for Women in Scottish Aquaculture (WISA). This
 network supports the role of women in the Scottish aquaculture sector, creating a platform for
 discussion and a network of support.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our diverse portfolio of funding reflects our broad programmes of research, from fundamental
 science to applied implementation. Research grant success has seen a step change increase in
 income and the total grant award value to Stirling over the REF period is £19.3m. This represents
 a 1.7-fold increase over the previous exercise (£11.5m) coupled to a success rate for project
 grants of 35%. Major funders, shown as 80% FEC excl. partners costs, include income from UK
 research council BBSRC (£6.06m to Stirling), Innovate UK (£2.34m to Stirling), NERC (£875K to
 Stirling), European (EU H2020, £4.8m to Stirling) and the Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre
 (SAIC, £3.2m to Stirling). Most (40%) of our research funding came from UKRI or the EU, with a
 further 20% from industry and 15% from other International sources including significant
 contributions from the Norwegian Fisheries Research Fund, the Norwegian Research Council and
 the International Development Research Centre, Canada (IDRC-Canada).

 Extensive industrial partnerships were secured (BBSRC-Industry funding £1.7M) with the world
 leading salmon companies based in Scotland, Norway, Iceland, Chile, Tasmania and Canada
 including producers (e.g. MOWI group, Lerøy Seafood Group, Scottish Sea Farms, The Scottish
 Salmon Company, Grieg Seafood, Cooke Aquaculture, Norway Royal salmon, Huon Aquaculture,
 Bremnes Seashore), feed manufacturers (e.g. BioMar, Cargill), pharmaceutical companies (e.g.
 Zoetis, Pharmaq, Merck Animal Health, Ceva), breeding companies (e.g. AquaGen, Benchmark,
 Landcatch Natural selection, MOWI Genetics) and equipment suppliers (Akva Group). These
 collaborations have led to a significant number of University of Stirling match-funded PhD
 scholarships (n=12), access to large-scale facilities for industrial scale trials (on-farm) and
 extensive knowledge transfer and training (CPD income; £66K 2017-2019; ARCH UK; £370k to
 Stirling). Upskilling of industry through knowledge transfer partnerships (KTPs) partnering with
 SME’s, currently 3 SME with a total project value of £893K also plays a major role at the IoA in
 supporting industry through collaboration funded UKRI and Scottish Government Funding.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have been particularly successful in raising the visibility of aquaculture’s role in transforming
 food systems in the UK that, for example, has led to recent participation in several major Innovate
 UK initiatives looking at alternative protein sources (Total project value of £12m, £967K to Stirling),
 fish sterility (Total project value of £2.4m, £751k to Stirling) and cleaner fish research (Total project
 value of £1.55m, 651k to Stirling).

 Close working relationships with governmental departments such as Department for Environment,
 Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), Marine Scotland Science and the Environment Agency, the Centre
 for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture (Cefas) has significantly enhanced funded research
 projects and associated PhD recruitment. Importantly, funded International research partnerships
 including the Research Institute for Aquaculture (RIA3) in Vietnam (Total £665K; £443K to Stirling)
 and a BBSRC-funded UK-China award (£33K/year) bringing together Chinese Universities from
 East China sea (Shanghai Ocean, Ningbo and Zhejiang Ocean Universities) fostered new
 opportunities to develop our International reach in South East Asia with further research, income
 and postgraduate recruitment.

 The IoA capitalised on the successful launch of the Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre in
 2014, and administered from the University, by deploying its scientific expertise and links with the
 industry to develop innovative research projects. During the REF period, these projects include:

     •   Domestication of cleaner fish (two new species, ballan wrasse and lumpsucker) (Impact
         Case Study 1) fast tracking the application of a green alternative to more traditional pest
         management strategies (total projects value of £6.5m, Stirling income of £1.16m)
     •   Development of genomic tools for UK aquaculture (including salmon, lumpsucker, mussel,
         oyster and lobster, total of £1.5m in collaboration with Edinburgh, Aberdeen, Exeter
         Universities, Stirling income of £198K)
     •   Impact of recirculation on salmon robustness at sea (total projects value of £1.8m, Stirling
         income of £671K including £220k from SAIC)
     •   Many other SAIC co-funded IoA projects over the period studied nutritional, welfare, sea
         lice and vaccine challenges experienced by the industry.

 The IoA is the lead partner for the UK’s first national UK wide multi-stakeholder aquaculture
 network, the Aquaculture Research Collaborative Hub (ARCH UK) which is co-funded by BBSRC
 and NERC (£550k). The network since its inception in 2017 has grown to 560 members (total of
 225 organisations representing all major aquaculture producers, suppliers and research centres
 across the UK). The main objectives of ARCH UK are to develop a UK aquaculture community by
 developing a strategic research agenda in relation to UKRI funding priorities (which led to
 Aquaculture Initiative launched in 2018 with a total of £5.1m granted in an open BBSRC/NERC
 call including a total of £2.5m in projects with Stirling), and by promoting knowledge exchange and
 translation of science and technology and strengthen UK capacity building in aquaculture
 especially through Early Career Researchers.

 Sustainability and climate change has been central to our research agenda with successful income
 streams from Horizon 2020 projects representing 18% of our total funding. The IoA Horizon 2020
 portfolio reflects our integration into key European ‘Blue Economy’ initiatives ranging from
 environmental policy and management, nutrition and genetics, health, innovation, sustainability in
 food production and training in aquaculture. The IoA has coordinated a large H2020 project (Total
 of £6.1m, £795k to Stirling) to develop environmental monitoring tools, technology for real time
 measurement and methods for regulation and licensing in aquaculture with 16 partners across
 Europe. Keystone initiatives played a significant role in policy and development across the global
 aquaculture landscape notably in Africa and Asia including an inter-disciplinary BBSRC-funded
 project in India, Bangladesh and Kenya (Total of £1.5m; £754K to Stirling) bringing regulators,
 scientists, public health, human nutrition and health economics expertise together. Innovation in
 the SE Asian aquaculture sector formed the core of the EU H2020 project entitled,
 Eurastip- Promoting Multi-Stakeholder Contributions to International Cooperation on Sustainable
 Solutions for Aquaculture Development in South East Asia (Total €2m, £197K to Stirling) aiming
 to act as an innovation catalyst to the sector.

                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure and Research facilities

 The IoA operates four unique animal research facilities that are essential to our operations: two
 on campus and two off campus, providing the range of environmental conditions (marine,
 freshwater, temperate and tropical) and experimental systems (Recirculating Aquaculture
 Systems (RAS), hatchery and flow-through) required for animal experimentation that are relevant
 to the aquaculture industry. All facilities are continuously upgraded to ensure we use the most
 advanced technologies available in line with our experimental ambitions (e.g. computerised and
 integrated feeding, environmental control and monitoring). A total of £1.7m has been invested by
 the IoA across our experimental facilities and >£1m in our laboratories during the REF period.
 Future investments are planned as part of Stirling City Deal with £17m allocated to Aquaculture
 infrastructure.

 The Marine Environmental Research Laboratory (MERL) provides research and commercial
 contract services with a major focus on improving nutritional value of aquaculture feedstocks and
 developing novel pest management strategies against sea lice and Amoebic Gill Disease, the two
 main threats to the global salmon industry. A major asset at MERL has been the further
 development of our sea lice farm, unique to the UK that provides contract services to the
 pharmaceutical industry by providing access to a controlled supply of genetically characterised
 sea lice for resistance to chemotherapeutants and colour phenotypes. MERL is the only marine
 site in the UK where sea lice research can be performed and as such is highly solicited by external
 companies in addition to our internal research portfolio. The IoA invested strategically to
 modernise and increase capacity over the REF period with two new experimental tank systems
 (£280k) hosted within a new extended building (£213k), the full site equipped with new and
 improved filtration units, automatic feeding and environmental monitoring systems (total of £335k)
 and two new permanent technical staff. The IoA secured a total of £2.4m during the REF period
 in the form of contract research services from many commercial partners including companies
 specialised in pharmaceuticals and health products (Zoetis, Elanco, Merck Animal Health, Solvay
 SA, Evolva SA), feeds, additives and alternative ingredients (BioMar, Xanthella Ltd, and Biomin
 GMBH), LED lighting (Signify) and selective breeding (Landcatch Natural Selection/Hendrix).

 The Niall Bromage Freshwater Research Unit (NBFRU) is our salmonid freshwater facility.
 Capacity at NBFRU has been enhanced with a £790K investment (2019) providing 12 tanks with
 environmental control through the use of state-of-the-art recirculation technology (RAS) and a new
 modern purpose-built experimental hatchery to support increased UKRI income. Currently,
 NBFRU is running at full capacity with the entire facility booked for experimental research
 extending to 2022. This usage highlights an increased demand from industry for UKRI funded
 research focussing on freshwater life stages of salmonids.

 On campus facilities

 Tropical Aquaria
 IoA on campus facilities include the only experimental tropical fish holding systems in the UK
 primarily used to support research on tilapia species (Tilapia Reference Collection breeding stocks
 of Oreochromis niloticus, O. aureus, O. mossambicus, O. karongae and Tilapia zillii) and catfish
 for aquaculture in developing countries but also model species, zebrafish. These facilities allow a
 wide range of fundamental and applied scientific studies to be performed on genetics (clonal lines,
 sex determination and manipulation), physiology, reproduction, nutrition, taxonomy, immunology,
 behaviour. The reputation of the IoA is embedded in the breadth and depth of its engagement with
 aquaculture worldwide and our facilities play a central role.

 Temperate Aquaria
 In 2014, IoA built state-of-the-art temperature and light controlled recirculation environmental
 facilities, temperature and light controlled with automatic feeding and monitoring systems (total of
 £250k, £100k within REF period). This temperate aquarium is used in a wide range of scientific
 projects funded mainly by BBSRC/NERC and industry (currently with world leading companies in


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 salmon genetics, AquaGen; salmon production, MOWI; and lighting, Philips) on chronobiology,
 environmental manipulations and programming, epigenetics experiments in salmon.

 Our aquaria facilities are supported by well-equipped research laboratories where analytical
 capacity in mass spectrometry (MS) is a particular strength. Institutional funding, with a total of
 £1m over the REF period, has allowed an enhancement of proteomic capacity (MALDI-TOF;
 £90K) and a new MS-ICP-MS to update analytical power (£250K). This MS capacity was further
 increased by SAIC funding (£350K) for an additional LC-MS-MS aimed toward detection of
 shellfish toxins across the UK. Additional upgrades have been made in cell cytometry and image
 analysis (£210K), radiography infrastructure (£142k) for skeletal malformation analyses and
 hydroacoustic technology for individual fish tracking (SAIC, £130k). The Nutrition Analytical
 Service (NAS), created in 1998 with a current customer list of over 43 organisations including 20
 international core customers, is intimately linked to our MS capability and contributes >£0.5m per
 year to support IoA investments and technical support maintaining state of the art analytical
 capabilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, alumni, economy and society

 Research collaborations
 Collaboration and internationalisation are key to IoA mission given the global importance of
 aquaculture. Our extensive networks and partnerships ensure that our collaborators benefit
 directly from our work providing significant contributions to the broader research base, economy,
 and society (Figure 3).




 Figure 3. Our active global partnerships across climate zones




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic collaborative initiatives include:
 At national level, the IoA leads and participates in three main initiatives funded by Scottish
 government and UKRI, the Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre (SAIC), the Marine Alliance
 Science and Technology Scotland (MASTS) and the Aquaculture Collaborative Research Hub
 (ARCH-UK).
 IoA has played a pivotal role in the development of SAIC, a Scottish Funding Council (SFC)
 initiative, by securing over £11m matched by industry. The University of Stirling acts as the
 administrative hub for SAIC and is a member of the executive board. Highlights from phase 1 of
 SAIC (2014-2019) include a total of £35.8m leveraged from industry and other sources and 205
 FTE jobs created (170 in rural areas). As a result, phase 2 was secured in 2019 with £10m from
 SFC, Scottish Enterprise, and Highlands and Islands Enterprise for the next five years. IoA is at
 the heart of SAIC success with £3.2m of SAIC research funding secured, 15-19 studentships/year
 in our MSc program in sustainable aquaculture (total of 119 during REF period, total value of
 £595k) and many conferences and seminars co-hosted.
 IoA staff have contributed to MASTS at all levels from its inception. MASTS is a pooling of over
 700 marine scientists and other stakeholders in Scotland. IoA chaired (by Deputy Principal
 Malcolm MacLeod) the Board of MASTS from 2017 to 2020. From 2012 to 2019 the IoA also led
 as Research Theme leader for Productive Seas (Professor Turnbull). After a successful first phase
 when 40 staff were recruited and 80 PhD students were trained in Scotland, attracting over £82m
 in grant income and a further £30m for infrastructure, a second phase began in 2016. Our
 continued roles as Forum leader for Sustainable Aquaculture (Dr Davie), members of the
 Governing Council (Professor Stead) and Executive Committee (Professor Telfer), has led directly
 to our involvement in the SUPER DTP.
 ARCH-UK was launched in 2017 under the leadership of IoA staff (Professor Migaud). Funded by
 both BBSRC and NERC, ARCH UK helps coordinate national collaboration amongst the UK
 academic research base contributing to aquaculture research and development. ARCH-UK has
 produced 10 reports since 2017 to ensure both national and international research funding
 strategy focusses on addressing key knowledge gaps to safeguard sustainable industry growth
 and global food security. ARCH-UK has been very active as a knowledge exchange and research
 translation resource for a national multi-stakeholder audience (550 members, 1780 twitter
 followers, including 225 academic, industry and government organisations). Staff at the IoA have
 co-led 6 of the 8 working groups, with more than 30 workshops and training events, including
 webinars, having reached over 5000 participants across the UK and global aquaculture
 community. ARCH-UK has led to large BBSRC/NERC collaborative research consortia led by
 Stirling.
 At European level, the IoA has contributed significantly to shape and drive a number of key
 initiatives including the European Aquaculture Technology and Innovation Platform (EATIP), the
 Federation of European Aquaculture Producers (FEAP), and the H2020 research infrastructure
 project AQUAEXCEL. The IoA is one of the ten core member Universities across Europe involved
 in the EATIP, driving aquaculture innovation, knowledge transfer and European competitiveness.
 IoA contributed to several of the group leadership including fish health (Professor Adams). The
 network is directly feeding into the European agenda by prioritising research needs, stimulating
 cross-regional transfer of knowledge. EATIP was a partner of Eurastip, ASEM Aquaculture
 platform, Aqua-tnet and is involved in AQUAEXCEL, all involving IoA staff. The IoA plays a key
 role in FEAP which represents the fish farming sector in Europe and supports and promotes the
 responsible development of aquaculture through the provision of positions, opinions and advice
 to the Aquaculture Advisory Council and the Market Advisory Council. IoA is a founding member
 of AQUAEXCEL programmes since its launch in 2012. AQUAEXCEL2020 is the latest of three
 consecutive projects bringing 22 partner organisations with access to 39 leading facilities for
 aquaculture research across Europe. This infrastructure provides partners with opportunities for
 networking and transnational access (TNA) for research across the consortia. The TNA
 component of the consortia is led by the IoA which manages the application process (194 TNA
 projects over the past 5 years).



                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the REF period, IoA scientists have been partners and coordinators in a range of research
 consortia funded through the European Union funded Horizon 2020 program (H2020). Our
 collaborative activities in this arena focus on nutrition and breeding (https://www.arraina.eu/ and
 https://www.luke.fi/aquaimpact/), environmental sustainability and climate change (http://tapas-
 h2020.eu/the-project/, Stirling as coordinator; https://climefish.eu/) and health management
 (https://www.parafishcontrol.eu/,              https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/265957/reporting;
 https://circlesproject.eu/).
 At international level, much of the IoA collaborative activity and research partnerships has been
 guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This activity is strategically supported
 by our influential network of Alumni, now over 1,500 past students from >100 different countries.
 This network results from providing high quality MSc and PhD research training in conjunction with
 sustained alumni engagement activity since the late 70s. Recent prestigious appointments of IoA
 staff in China (e.g. Professor Migaud as Distinguished Professor of the Zhejiang province since
 2018; Professor Adams as Honorary Professor at Guangzhou Ocean University) has further
 extended our access to research in the world’s largest aquaculture producing nation.
 Aiming at enhancing the sustainability of global aquaculture, IoA is increasingly working with
 certifiers and advocacy organisations including the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch
 programme; Global Aquaculture Alliance; Aquaculture Stewardship Council and IFFO, the marine
 ingredients organisation. As founder members of several working groups of the International
 Council for Exploration of the Sea's (ICES); Socio-Economic Aquaculture working Group and
 Environmental Interactions of Aquaculture workgroup, the IoA holds an influential position to
 inform future policy and practice.
 Much of our international research activity is reflected by our PhD student demographic with a
 strong presence in Africa and SE Asia. We contribute to building resilient infrastructure by leading
 the SARNISSA network (6000 Facebook followers) a go-to source of information for Sub-Saharan
 Aquaculture. Leverhulme/Royal Society Africa funding supports aquaculture development in
 Ghana working with both government and NGOs to extend sustainable aquaculture practices and
 improve employability. Several funded projects (BBSRC and British Council) working with partners
 in Egypt, Kenya and Tanzania assess the value of a range of nutrition and health initiatives. In
 partnership with the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR institute)
 and Worldfish, we work on human resource development needs for aqua-based food security in
 sub-Saharan Africa, extended to Bangladesh and SE Asia through Erasmus + funding. We are
 partners to the Innovative Methods and Metrics for Agriculture and Nutrition Actions programme
 (IMMANA) and the Leverhulme Aquatic Food for Health and Nutrition initiative all linking public
 health, nutrition and aquaculture systems. Complementary funded programmes in SE Asia
 (Thailand, Vietnam and Bangladesh) include the European Asian aquaculture Technology and
 innovation Platform (EURASTIP) that promotes international cooperation on sustainable solutions
 for aquaculture development. As an example of success, diagnostic capacity and data sharing for
 shrimp disease has been developed with producer groups across Thailand.
 During the COVID pandemic we have also reached out to international partnerships and
 audiences through Our Big Fish Seminar series to promote the societal importance of aquatic
 food.
 Interdisciplinary research
 IoA has driven interdisciplinary activities across the University of Stirling within the Global Food
 Security and Resilience and Living Well themes. Our activities aim to pool expertise to address
 complex questions and include collaborations in the Extremes in Science and Society,
 Environmental Change and Global Food Security research programmes. IoA collaborates in
 funded research with multiple Divisions across the University including food security and
 sustainability modellers (Computing Science and Mathematics), public health (Health Sciences
 and Sport), environmental assessments of food production (Biological and Environmental
 Sciences), behavioural change (Psychology) and economics (the Business School). Outside our
 immediate University, we have collaborations within consortia in the UK (Aberdeen: Human
 Nutrition; Glasgow: Health Economics) and more broadly in Europe (Bergen, Norway;
 Copenhagen, Denmark), the USA (Johns Hopkins) and Low-Income countries (Bangladesh and

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Philippines). Two examples of funded projects include the development of vaccines against anti-
 microbial resistance in Aquaculture in Vietnam (IDRC Canada) and the understanding the impacts
 of microplastics using satellite imagery (NERC; Microbial hitchhikers of marine plastics, with
 European Space Agency). Research into the global impacts of aquaculture, and more broadly
 seafood, have been particularly strong in the current REF period. This activity has led to
 participation in the prestigious interdisciplinary Blue Food Assessment programme, an
 International coalition of researchers that delivers a high-profile series of peer reviewed papers for
 decision makers. This forum together with economists (Stanford, USA), sociologists (Michigan
 State, USA; Cleveland, USA; Manitoba, Canada), climate modellers (Santa Barbara, California,
 USA), human nutritionists (Harvard, USA) and environmental emission scientists (Stockholm,
 Sweden) has led to the first in a series of critical opinion high impact publications
 (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-19679-9).
 Contribution to the research base
 Although much of the IoA’s work is applied in its nature, our fundamental research drives
 translational opportunities. Some examples of our basic research include the functional biology of
 omega-3 PUFA metabolism which led to discoveries that their synthesis was far more extensive
 across the animal kingdom than previously thought. This research had a critical role in the
 development of ground-breaking genetic modification technologies to allow the production and
 evaluation of omega-3 PUFA in terrestrial crop plants. Detailed molecular studies demonstrated
 that sea louse resistance against the parasiticide deltamethrin is determined by mitochondrial
 mutations, a finding now widely used in susceptibility monitoring in the industry. The behavioural
 fever paradigm demonstrated the importance of thermal choice in an animal’s environment,
 significantly impacting upon its survival during a pathogen challenge. The study of clock gene
 pathways in relation to environmental manipulations helps to understand chronobiological
 processes entraining critical life cycle transition windows of fish (early development and first
 feeding, smoltification, puberty), and the efficacy and toxicity of chemical treatments.
 Leadership in academia and government
 The IoA provides leadership roles in Europe’s and Asia’s largest academic societies contributing
 the current (Professor Migaud) and past (Professor Stead) Presidents of the European
 Aquaculture Society and board members the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the World Aquaculture
 Society. The IoA head is the Chiel scientific Adviser to UK Government for the Marine
 Management Organisation. Several senior IoA academics contributed to UKRI working groups
 (BBSRC: Veterinary Vaccinology Strategy; Animal Welfare Research Network and panel);
 Scottish Government Ministerial working groups; British Veterinary Association (Professor
 Turnbull, President of Fish Veterinary Society)). Within the aquaculture domain, specialist areas
 such as fish health, nutrition and reproductive physiology are well represented by IoA staff as
 directors, chairs and board members including the steering Committee of the Gill Health Initiative,
 and the scientific council of INRA Phase, the largest Animal physiology and farming organisation
 in Europe. Our staff lead and contribute to the organisation of numerous international scientific
 conferences across the domain.
 Interaction with research users
 Much of the IoA’s work is undertaken in close partnership with our research users, with most
 projects containing at least one industrial partner. Examples of long-standing collaborations with
 world leading industrial research users include those within the Scottish salmon production sector
 (largest world producer MOWI), feed companies (BioMar), breeding and genetic companies
 (AquaGen), raw material companies (Calysta), feed additive companies (Lallemand), diagnostics
 companies (STIM), vaccine producers (Pharmaq/Zoetis), light manufacturers (Signify), equipment
 and technology suppliers (AkvaGroup) and retailers (Sainsbury’s, Tesco) among others. Other
 research users include various international bodies (Worldfish, FAO), regulatory bodies (CEFAS,
 SEPA, Marine Scotland, European Food Safety Authority, Global Aquaculture Alliance, Global
 G.A.P) and government where IoA academics participate to develop policy (ministerial working
 groups on sustainable aquaculture and the Scottish Parliament Rural Economy and Connectivity
 committee).


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contribution to economy
 Due to the highly applied nature of much of the IoA’s research, the rapid adoption and impact has
 resulted in substantial contributions to the economy of the UK and beyond. Farmed salmon is
 Scotland and the UK’s number one food export, being exported to over 50 countries, with a value
 exceeding £600m and employing 2300 people in remote and rural UK. Science based solutions
 provided by IoA contributed to transforming and expanding the global salmon sector through new
 farm licenses, increased standing biomass and increased productivity, improved welfare and
 reduction in downgrading. The most recent version of the Scottish Government’s economic impact
 model (based on input-output) shows that for every £100 of turnover within the Scottish
 aquaculture industry another £93 is sustained elsewhere in Scotland’s economy through supply
 chains and high street spending from the wages paid to employees. The IoA’s reach internationally
 has an even greater contribution due to the scale of aquaculture as an industry in Asia, Africa and
 South America, where farmed fish is now an equal contributor to food security as wild-capture fish,
 and greater than that of beef production. IoA research and innovation encompasses all main
 commercially important species (e.g. tilapia, catfish, carps, shrimps) and impacted global
 aquaculture while providing knowledge and tools for diversification into new and emerging
 species.
 Contribution to society
 Our core mission is to enable greater sustainability, food security and resilience of aquatic
 species and ecosystems globally through the development of science based practical solutions
 and the transformation of the UK and world aquaculture food systems. All our activities contribute
 directly to society by delivering research, training, innovation and knowledge transfer that increase
 aquatic food availability, nutritious quality, and safety while protecting the environment,
 safeguarding animal welfare and driving business profitability. Evidence of our contribution can be
 found all over the world from the implementation of our research, our training programmes and
 extensive networks and alumni. This success was acknowledged recently by the prestigious
 Queen’s Anniversary Prize and Scottish Government’s funding through the City Region Deal in
 recognition of our impact and reach across communities, governments and industry. The IoA has
 an active and diverse outreach programme where we promote our core values, knowledge and
 innovative solutions. Our collective commitment, passion around a shared strategic vision,
 together with our extensive networks and funding will enable us to tackle current and future global
 challenges and continue to benefit communities and society at large.




                                                                                              Page 16
