Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: UOA 28B: International History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview: the International History Department is a world-leading centre for the research and
 teaching of early modern, modern, and contemporary international history. Its staff analyse
 relations between states, societies, peoples, ideas, and cultures since 1500, and its approach is
 self-consciously global.

 Since 2014 staff members have made book-length contributions to subjects ranging impressively
 widely: from early modern empires to politics and society in post-colonial states; maps and
 space; gender, race, and transnational activism; war reporting; corruption; and abolitionism and
 slavery. They have also published on longer established topics in inter-governmental relations,
 including the First World War, the Cold War, and nuclear history. They study East, South, and
 South-East Asia, Africa, the Middle East, Europe, Latin America, and the United States. They
 investigate in multiple languages, including Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hindi, Italian,
 Japanese, Persian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Serbo-Croat, Spanish, Turkish (Ottoman and
 Modern) and Urdu. Their teaching is research-led: staff offer specialist courses based on their
 expertise. The Department publishes outstanding work with leading presses, underpinning far-
 reaching impact and knowledge exchange.

 The Department nurtures its research talent, including a strong cohort of fully-integrated PhD
 students. It convenes two high-profile seminars: an international history research seminar led by
 PhD researchers, and a contemporary international history seminar co-organised with Sciences
 Po Paris. Staff members convene further seminars at the Institute of Historical Research (IHR),
 and play leading roles in learned societies and on journal boards.

 Alongside our PhD programme, we annually recruit some 150 Masters’ students. The
 Department runs several innovative double/dual degree programmes with partners including
 Columbia University, Peking University, and (soon) the National University of Singapore. Staff
 work closely with other LSE units, including IDEAS (LSE’s foreign-policy think-tank) and the
 IDEAS Cold War Studies Project, but also the Cañada Blanch Centre for Contemporary Spanish
 Studies, the Latin America and Caribbean Centre, the Middle East Centre, the Grantham
 Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, the European Institute, the South-
 East Asia Centre, and the US Centre.

 The Department’s location has aided collaboration with the National Archives, government
 departments including the Cabinet Office and MOD, and the FCO Historical Branch. We have
 close relations with the German Historical Institute London (GHIL), and host the Paulsen
 Programme for research by Russian scholars. Our faculty contribute frequently to media outlets,
 and a strong social media presence facilitates dissemination and outreach.

 Staff profile; how research is structured: on 31 July 2020 the Department had 24.6 FTE
 academic research staff, comprising 8.6 FTE full Professors; 11 Associate Professors, and 5
 Assistant Professors. It had five LSE Fellows (postdoctoral teachers/researchers), and hosted
 two Visiting Professors (Dominic Lieven and Ulrich Herbert), one Konrad Adenauer Stiftung-LSE
 Fellow (Christine-Isabella Panreck), and four Visiting Fellows. It had 44 PhD students.

 The Department’s academic staff and PhD students form five research clusters. Each cluster
 receives financial support, and provides a forum for collaboration, convening workshops, peer-
 reviewing drafts, and inviting external speakers. Cluster activity features on our webpages.

 In 2019-20 the clusters were as follows (some colleagues joining two):

 Pre-Modern East and West (Baer, Keenan, Millwood, Po, Sood, Stock)

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Conflict and Identity in Europe since the Eighteenth Century (Gusejnova, Ludlow, Motadel,
 Prazmowska, Preston, Rajak, Stevenson, Stock)

 Contemporary International History and the Global Cold War (Alvandi, Ashton, Bergmane, Black,
 Harmer, Jones, Ludlow, Millwood, Rajak, Spohr, Zubok)

 Modern World History (Alvandi, Baer, Best, Black, Cant, Kishore, Lewis, Motadel, Schulze,
 Sherman, Webber)

 The Americas in World History (Black, Cant, Casey, Ellis, Harmer, Jones, Umoren).

 The Department’s Research Committee allocates awards from the School’s Research
 Infrastructure and Investment Funds (RIIF), allocates studentships to PhD applicants, and
 monitors the appointment of visiting scholars.

 Its Staff/PhD Research Forum (SRF) holds lunchtime meetings where staff and visiting scholars
 present on their research.

 The Department’s Doctoral Programme Director (DPD) has primary responsibility for the
 MPhil/PhD programme, supported by a professional services colleague.

 The Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Committee includes research within its remit.

 Research plans and objectives since 2014: for REF 2014 the Department’s strategy was set
 out jointly with the LSE Economic History Department; for 2021 the departments are making
 separate submissions. As well as delivering world-leading publications, our 2014 aims included
 developing an inclusive and supportive research culture that embraced permanent staff, LSE
 Fellows, PhD students, post-doctoral researchers, and visiting scholars. We have pursued this
 goal through the research clusters, RIIF grants, and the SRF. The Department has recruited new
 staff, adding expertise on early modern empires, pre-twentieth century China, environmental
 history, slavery and emancipation, European intellectual history and history of exiles, Andean
 history, Caribbean history, and gender history. Sabbatical leave and buy-outs have helped
 colleagues to pursue extended research. We have further enhanced our training and facilities for
 PhD students, and maintained at least two LSE Fellows annually. These measures are vital for
 reinforcing our research base and sustaining our discipline.

 We have concentrated on producing monographs, which in international history remain the ‘gold
 standard’ of achievement. Monographs are the vehicle for major scholarly statements, and field-
 defining findings and interpretations. In 2014-20 the Department’s staff published 29 research-
 based monographs (six more than in 2008-14): many with leading presses and several prize-
 winning. Books based on years of work have covered exchange and communication in early
 modern Islamic empires; maritime history in Qing-dynasty China; memory politics regarding
 Jews and Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and Turkey; slavery and anti-slavery in West Africa;
 European elites and European identity; black and feminist internationalism; resource extraction
 and American policy; empire and sentiment in Africa; the geographical imagination and the idea
 of Europe; post-colonial India’s Muslims; Spanish political corruption; Anglo-Japanese relations;
 Islam and Nazi Germany; world politics in 1917; American war reporting and public opinion;
 British nuclear history; and the end of the Cold War. Major biographical studies have appeared
 of Władysław Gomulka, Hugo Marcus, Dmitry Likhachev, Roy Jenkins, Helmut Schmidt, and
 Beatriz Allende.

 Staff have also published peer-reviewed articles in high-reputation journals, including American
 Historical Review, Journal of American History, Journal of Cold War Studies, Diplomatic History,
 English Historical Review, Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History, International History
 Review, and Past & Present. Although few articles could figure in our submission (given the
 numerical ceiling and our emphasis on monographs), they underline the world-leading quality of

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues’ output. In addition, Alvandi, Best, Gusejnova, Ludlow, Motadel, Schulze and Spohr
 have edited important collective works. Further, the Department received over £1.3 million in
 research income across the census period from sources including the British Academy, the
 AHRC, and Leverhulme.

 Enabling and facilitating impact: as well as dissemination to non-academic audiences, our
 impact strategy has helped generate impacts with reach and significance, underpinned by the
 high-quality outputs described above. Our three ICSs were identified early in the cycle. They
 comprise Preston’s work on Spanish history (underpinned by The Last Days of the Spanish
 Republic and A People Betrayed, and his public prominence in Spain); Stevenson’s on the First
 World War (underpinned by 1917: War, Peace and Revolution, and collaboration with the
 Imperial War Museum); and Jones’s on nuclear history (underpinned by The Official History of
 the UK Strategic Nuclear Deterrent and Jones’s access to government officials). The first of
 these exemplifies our international outreach; the second and third show how our London location
 facilitates contact with potential beneficiaries/impact partners based in the capital. Equally
 international are our other impact activities, including Ludlow’s engagement with the European
 Commission; and Rajak’s advice to the Belgrade authorities on memorializing Serbia’s First
 World War experience. Similarly, Spohr’s work on European security and the end of the Cold
 War enabled a major contribution while she served as the inaugural Helmut Schmidt
 Distinguished Professor at the Henry A. Kissinger Center for Global Affairs at Johns Hopkins
 University (sponsored by the German Academic Exchange Service and German Foreign
 Ministry): she led discussions with US officials on Euro-Atlantic security, and convened
 roundtables at NATO Headquarters and the German Council on Foreign Relations. She also led
 forums at Chatham House, the FCO, and the German Council on Foreign Relations, briefed
 MPs on Russian policy, and briefed Bundestag deputies. Likewise, Zubok chaired the
 Dahrendorf Forum’s working group on ‘Europe, Russia and Ukraine’, which published reports for
 a wide audience. Our work is promoted on our social media, on our ‘History with Impact’ website
 pages, and on our podcast ‘Our Histories’. Staff have contributed frequently on radio and
 television (cf. Section 4). We have followed through on our 2014 objectives of capitalizing on our
 research to inform current debates, appointing new staff with strong records of dissemination,
 encouraging impact awareness among our ECRs, and using LSE funds to enhance our public
 profile.

 The Department’s approach to inter-disciplinary research and its knowledge exchange and
 impact have benefited from collaboration with LSE IDEAS, co-founded by Professor Arne
 Westad (then in International History) and the International Relations Department. Rated the
 world’s leading university-affiliated foreign-policy think tank (2019 Global Go To Think Tank
 Index), IDEAS’s research intersects with much of the Department’s work, and many staff and
 PhD students contribute. It hosts an impressive list of public events and meetings with
 practitioners. Alvandi leads its Cold War Studies Project, and five colleagues staff the editorial
 board of its journal, Cold War History. Staff also promote inter-disciplinarity by working with other
 LSE Centres and Departments. Preston has directed the Cañada Blanch Centre for
 Contemporary Spanish Studies, which supports public-facing events and engagement with
 parliamentarians; the US Centre has supported Umoren’s work on race and gender with funding
 for a seminar series; and in 2019 the Latin America and Caribbean Centre (whose steering
 group includes Harmer and which also involves Cant) supported an international workshop
 organised by the Department’s Americas cluster on the Nicaraguan revolution. Similarly, a new
 interdepartmental research seminar on ‘Cultures of War’, led by Jones and Professor Tarak
 Barkawi from International Relations, highlights new approaches to the study of conflict.

 LSE funding for Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) – at £10K per annum to the Department
 - has enhanced dissemination and impact. We stated in our 2014 statement that we would use
 such funding to support our strategy. KEI funding allowed Jones to convene a cross-government
 workshop at the FCO in 2019, drawing together academics and officials to discuss the Pilling
 report on the official history programme and avenues through which government could engage
 with scholars. The workshop helped lead to the inclusion of a new budget line for a revived
 programme. KEI funding has financed a podcast series ‘Our Histories’ organized by our PhD

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 alumna Artemis Photiadou, available on SoundCloud, Apple Podcasts and LSE iPlayer. In each
 episode Artemis discusses with a faculty member their research and publications. Additionally,
 the LSE film unit has videoed staff members discussing their research: by January 2020
 viewings on our website and YouTube totalled Jones, 4,469; Preston, 4,874; Stevenson, 1,419;
 Stock, 6,574.

 The Department strives towards an open-access environment for journal articles and
 conference contributions with an ISSN. In late 2020, 174 staff publications are open access in
 the LSE online repository, including 84 journal articles: an increase of 18% on the previous REF
 period. Gusejnova’s monograph on European Elites and Ideas of Empire is available on open
 access, and Spohr has provided digitized documents to the (US) National Security Archive. Also
 open-access are Spohr’s 2019 co-edited volumes, Exiting the Cold War, Entering a New World
 and Open Door: NATO and Euro-Atlantic Security after the Cold War. Casey is a member of the
 editorial board for LSE Press, the School’s open-access publishing platform.

 Since 2013 we have operated an arrangement with the GHIL, financed by the Gerda Henkel
 Foundation, whereby a German-language university historian spends a year in the Department
 completing a major research project (while teaching a related Masters course) and organizing an
 international conference. Examples include Johanna Gehmacher (Vienna) in 2018-19 and Ulrich
 Herbert (Freiburg) in 2019-20. The scheme seeks to raise the UK profile of German research,
 and promote research on German history in a European context. The Foundation has been very
 satisfied, extending the scheme in 2019 for a further five-year term.

 The Department hosts the Paulsen programme on imperial Russia, funded by a one-million Euro
 donation from the Frederick Paulsen Foundation. It builds on our tradition of teaching and
 researching Russian history (including work by Lieven, Hartley, Keenan and Zubok). It finances
 conference attendance and research trips outside Russia by early-career Russian scholars
 working on pre-1917 topics. It is managed by an international board chaired by Lieven (a visiting
 professor and previously a staff member). In 2018-19 and 2019-20 28 Fellowships were
 awarded, including projects on eighteenth-century maritime commerce, the Russian Red Cross,
 Russian military thought, Jewish identity in Russia, academic relations with British and German
 universities, and Russia in international art exhibitions. Two related seminars will meet in 2021,
 and a capstone conference in Latvia in 2022.

 Research and impact strategy and objectives, 2021-27: we will maintain our distinctiveness
 as a global international history centre, supporting research projects of the highest calibre and
 producing monographs, articles, and book chapters with major publishers. New books are
 planned on agrarian reform and revolution in Peru; the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade;
 early modern Islamic governance; the Soviet Union’s collapse; international knowledge transfer
 and wartime internment in Britain; Nehru’s India; Britain and the Middle East; Polish intervention
 in the Angolan Civil War; the Iranian Revolution; the Somali diaspora; the Bohai and Yellow
 Seas; American reporting of the Pacific War; Islamist, separatist and communal violence in
 Indonesia; and Dominican Premier Eugenia Charles. In 2020 Umoren won the Eccles Centre
 and Hay Festival award for this latter project, linked to a year in residence at the British Library.
 We will further broaden our geographic and thematic coverage with new and replacement posts.
 A new Assistant Professor in African history (Dr Jake Richards) joined in September 2020, and
 we plan appointments on twentieth-century China and the US.

 Our staff will benefit through enhanced research funding from the School, Departmental RIIF
 funds, sabbaticals, and buy-out applications. The research clusters’ work will further develop,
 and alongside the SRF will help our ECRs to progress. We will use the clusters to formulate
 collaborative grant projects; we will also develop our relationships with other LSE units, including
 IDEAS. In line with the ‘LSE 2030’ strategy, the Department aims to strengthen its PhD
 provision. From 2020 it can award four School-allocated studentships annually, put forward
 additional candidates, and support applications to the AHRC’s London Arts and Humanities
 Partnership (LAHP), to which LSE belongs. We will further encourage new talent by offering at
 least two LSE Fellowships annually.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our impact strategy involves identifying and supporting (from KEI Funds) projects with major
 reach and significance. We see potential for applying historical understanding to contemporary
 debates, and for historians to interrogate received perceptions of the past. For example, Spohr’s
 research and impact agenda applies historical insights to transatlantic relations and European
 security; Motadel will continue addressing wider audiences and influencing discussions on
 populism in Western societies; and Lewis’s work on Somali expatriates can inform debates over
 displacement, settlement, and identity. We will continue to seek impact and knowledge
 exchange by exploiting our London location and the contacts it encourages. LSE’s 2030 strategy
 highlights wider public engagement; and the School plans new state-of-the-art conference
 facilities. We will expand our podcasts to incorporate new material and reach wider audiences.
 Our staff are also developing independent media contributions, including radio features and
 documentary films. (For example, Gusejnova’s recently completed film, financed by the ZEIT-
 Stiftung, has been scheduled to screen at major venues including Berlin’s Historical Museum
 and Munich’s Historikertag.) We have already identified four potential ICSs for the next REF that
 combine appropriate institutional partnerships and dissemination, on the basis of high-calibre
 research outputs.

 We also aim to expand our international connections. In addition to staff exchanges with
 Columbia, we will strengthen links with Sciences Po and EUI Florence (facilitated by LSE
 membership of the CIVICA network, to which both institutions belong). We have begun a
 dialogue with the Freie Universität Berlin over student and staff exchanges, and have renewed
 our agreement with the GHIL. Finally, we will continue hosting the Paulsen Programme.

 Research Ethics – all LSE faculty and staff are bound by the School’s Code of Research
 Conduct and by its Ethics Code and Research Ethics Policy. There is an ‘Ethics at LSE’ training
 module and a research ethics component in the New Academic Induction Programme. Ethics
 reviews are required for research that might have negative repercussions for individuals or
 groups, and our Master’s dissertation candidates are required to indicate whether their projects
 entail interviews.

 2. People

 The Department’s staffing strategy aims to recruit and nurture the highest-quality staff in order
 to maintain research excellence and a vital research environment. Our vacancies are advertised
 openly and internationally. We seek particularly to support ECRs, providing detailed career
 advice and holding individual review meetings. Under LSE’s New Academic Career (NAC)
 structure, evidence is needed of peer-reviewed research excellence for progress through Major
 Review and promotion. All our REF-submitted staff are on permanent contracts.

 Since 2014 the Department has deliberately broadened its expertise. Appointments have been
 made on Early Modern China (Po); US environmental history (Black); race, gender, and
 Caribbean history (Umoren); slavery and the Atlantic world (Scanlan); Latin America (Cant); pre-
 twentieth-century Africa (Richards); twentieth-century European and global history (Motadel);
 and European intellectual and cultural history (Gusejnova). Of eight new Assistant Professors,
 four were women and four men: three were BAME. Four were British, one Russian, one
 Canadian, one American, and one Hong-Kong Chinese. One (Scanlan) has returned for family
 reasons to Toronto University; another (Black) has left for MIT. Po’s appointment consolidated
 our existing strengths in East Asian history (Best and an LSE Fellow, Dr Pete Millwood), while
 Cant’s strengthens us in Latin America (adding to Harmer). Richards, who joined in 2020, gives
 us (alongside Lewis) two historians of Africa.

 We attract high numbers of applications:
   - 115 for United States and the world
   - 95 for Latin American history
   - 109 for modern European history


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our recruitment processes reflect the School’s EDI principles and the Department’s EDI Action
 Plan. Three permanent staff members form a gender-balanced search committee that compiles
 a long-list which a ‘relate’ member from another Department checks before all staff are invited to
 comment. Five/six candidates are shortlisted: their CVs and writings go to all colleagues. Over
 two days, candidates present on their research and teaching to the entire Department, and their
 performances are ranked. The subsequent formal interview panel of four normally comprises two
 Departmental representatives and the ‘relate’ member, chaired by the School’s Vice-Chair of the
 Appointments Committee. This panel composition safeguards comparability of standards across
 LSE, although the Department’s views carry considerable weight.

 Staff development: The Department is committed to its staff’s career development. Under the
 NAC, Assistant Professors undergo Interim Review by Year Four and Major Review by Year
 Eight (for confirmation of appointment until retirement and promotion to Associate Professor).
 Review and promotion decisions are made by LSE’s Promotions Committee, which represents
 all the main disciplines in the School and is selected on a gender-balanced basis.

 Candidates for Interim Review present two writings, accompanied by statements on research
 achievements and trajectory (as well as teaching and citizenship), alongside a Head of
 Department (HOD) report. Pre-Interim Review Assistant Professors enjoy a lighter teaching and
 administrative load while they establish their research.

 Candidates for Major Review submit four publications, alongside statements on research
 achievements and trajectory, teaching, and citizenship. The Department’s professoriate makes a
 recommendation. The Department’s normal expectation for Major Review is completion of one
 monograph and substantial progress towards a second. (To be considered for full Professor, the
 normal expectation is three monographs.) Members of the professoriate read candidates’ work,
 and external peer review applies to all writings, which should be either ‘world-leading’ or
 ‘internationally excellent’ in their originality, rigour and significance. Although the criteria include
 high standards of teaching and administration, research and publications are central, and our
 promotions criteria tally with our REF strategy: the Department and the School are particularly
 concerned to see strong scholarly contributions, but they also lay stress on impact.

 Professorial mentors are appointed for all Assistant and Associate Professors: they advise on
 publications, grant applications, and review and promotion. Annual Career Development Review
 (CDR) meetings are held for all Assistant and Associate Professors, the HOD or another senior
 Professor talking through research progress and support. The Department aims to progress
 rapidly those staff who meet its criteria: since 2018 Po and Motadel have passed early Major
 Review, and Umoren early Interim Review.

 Short-term teaching replacement needs (usually generated by buy-outs) are often
 accommodated by appointing LSE Fellows: these posts assist post-doctoral researchers in
 expanding their publications and launching their careers. LSE Fellows have equivalent teaching
 loads to permanent staff, and are fully integrated into the Department, attending staff meetings
 and receiving the same Staff Research Fund allowance as permanent colleagues. Several have
 secured permanent university posts.

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are supported through the research clusters and active
 mentoring. Drafts are workshopped in the clusters: (in 2019-20 a Millwood manuscript on US-
 China cultural exchanges, a manuscript by LSE Fellow Bergmane on the Baltic and the USSR’s
 collapse, and a Cant chapter on Peruvian land reform; previously Sood and Po presented draft
 articles. ECRs are also expected to present to the SRF. An Assistant Professor serves on the
 Research Committee, and Assistant Professors propose their own specialist courses, facilitating
 research/teaching cross-fertilization.

 In this REF period, the Department has granted maternity/paternity leave to five colleagues ;
 those returning from 18 weeks or more of maternity or shared parental leave receive an


                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 additional term of research leave. As a matter of policy, the School provides a replacement LSE
 Fellow for any staff on maternity leave.

 Selection of REF Outputs: Over three-quarters of the staff submitted for REF 2021 (including
 all BAME staff, all but one ECRs, and all but two women) have published at least one book in
 the census period, and we intend that every book will be submitted and nominated for double-
 weighting. The Department’s REF Panel (comprising three men and three women, four full
 Professors and two Associate Professors) was responsible for the recommendation of outputs
 with a view to achieving a fair and equitable representation, informed by the School’s REF 2021
 code of practice on equality monitoring with respect to seniority, ethnicity and gender. The
 School’s REF Strategy Committee reviewed and ratified the final portfolio of outputs. The
 guidelines were communicated at staff meetings, and there is a written departmental code of
 practice. The REF co-ordinator was required to undertake EDI/unconscious bias training.

 Support for staff research, impact, and knowledge exchange: sabbatical leave is available
 to established staff: one term after eight teaching terms and two after fifteen. Academic staff
 have enjoyed extended secondments/buy-outs: (Baer (2018-19), Black (2019-20), Lewis (2017-
 19), Motadel (2018-20), Prazmowska (2017-19), Spohr (2017-20), Umoren (2020-21), and we
 encourage staff exchanges and mobility. As well as the Staff Research Fund, RIIF funds have
 financed archival visits, conference participation, and research assistants. Our exchange
 arrangement enabled Sherman to visit Columbia in 2014-15 and Alvandi in 2018-19; Victoria
 Phillips from Columbia visited the Department while completing a major book, and we have held
 LSE/Columbia staff/PhD student workshops. Conversely, Spohr’s occupancy of the Helmut
 Schmidt chair helped her complete a major monograph.

 Research grant applications are refined by the chair of the Department’s Research Committee.
 LSE’s Research and Innovation Division provides dedicated support throughout a project,
 including formulating grant applications and preparing costings, through to advice on impact and
 knowledge exchange. The School offers Seed-Fund support of up to £20K for projects leading to
 larger applications: Gusejnova used this to digitize material on wartime internment on the Isle of
 Man. Dissemination is facilitated by School KEI funding (as with the ‘Our Histories’ podcasts),
 and a designated member of our professional services team publicizes research via social
 media and on our website.

 PhD training, supervision and environment: the Department has a very strong PhD cohort.
 Entry is highly competitive: in 2020 we received 37 applications and made 12 offers; the 2019
 figures were 36 and 19. We require a Taught Postgraduate (Master’s) degree (or equivalent) in a
 related discipline with at least 67% overall and in the dissertation. We allocate for PhD
 studentships each year. The allocations are based on rankings made by our Research
 Committee.

 Our DPD (currently Harmer) monitors the programme, working closely with LSE’s PhD Academy
 and the School-wide DPD Forum. The DPD oversees the appointment of supervisors. LSE
 expects the primary supervisor to have passed Major Review or to co-supervise with a colleague
 who has done so: an additional staff member acts as thesis adviser.

 The DPD (currently an EDI Committee member) oversees equity across interviews, asking all
 candidates the same questions. The EDI committee has investigated improving our website and
 social media profiles to attract more diverse applicants. Students can interrupt or request
 extensions on health/personal grounds, and the School’s Disability and Welfare Service moved
 in 2020 to appoint two specialist advisers for doctoral students.

 Each year the second- and third-year PhD students organize an introductory one-day workshop
 for the first years. As well as attending presentations, the new arrivals meet with each other, the
 DPD, staff members, and more senior PhD students.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the Summer Term of their first year, MPhil students undergo an upgrade procedure to qualify
 for full PhD status. They must submit:

    i)     a thesis summary and chapter breakdown;
    ii)    the main hypothesis and how it will be tested;
    iii)   a historiographical essay;
    iv)    a draft chapter of about 10,000 words, based mainly on primary sources.

 Two staff members other than the supervisor review this dossier, write reports, and conduct a
 viva. If further work is necessary, students are asked to revise and resubmit, receiving detailed
 guidance from the upgrade panel. In addition, all students undergo an annual progress review.
 For students in their penultimate year, at least one staff member who is not the primary
 supervisor participates in this review and approves a completion schedule to ensure students
 are on track to submit.

 The Department encourages language tuition, and supports it financially. It offers an annual
 travel bursary. Students can draw on a School fund to attend conferences where they are
 presenting, and apply to a PhD Mobility Exchange Scheme that allows them to spend time at a
 partner institution (Columbia, UC Berkeley, Sciences Po, Cape Town, or PKU): since 2014, 14
 have done so.

 Training is enhanced by our membership of the LAHP, whose courses include Digital
 Humanities and European languages. In 2020/21 LAHP will ring-fence studentships for
 Black/Global Majority applicants. The Department additionally delivers its own training through
 the HY501 workshop, where staff discuss methodologies, historiography, and practicalities such
 as conference presentations, job talks, and publishing strategies; students can also workshop
 their drafts before the upgrade. We provide at least two specialist sessions on the job market
 beyond the PhD, with staff, alumni and a careers adviser (the School has a dedicated PhD
 careers adviser). We also offer practice job talks and interviews.

 The Department provides many opportunities for PhD students to integrate within its research
 culture. PhD students convene and chair one of its flagship research seminars, HY509. Many
 attend the HY510 seminar and the SRF, and every student is assigned to a research cluster. We
 require all PhD students to present to a departmental research seminar, and encourage them to
 attend external seminars. We have an active PhD Staff-Student Liaison Committee, and have
 benefited from its feedback. Publications by our PhD students are showcased on our website.

 As examples, in 2019 our Americas research cluster helped sponsor and organize an
 international workshop on the Nicaraguan Revolution, co-convened by two PhD students and
 aided by £4,790 of School funding. Besides being an investment in the students’ career
 trajectories, it helped position us as a centre of excellence for Latin America international history.
 Similarly, in 2020 our PhD cohort, in concert with UCL’s Transnational History Centre, organised
 an inaugural PhD conference on ‘Transnational Disruptions’, funded by the Department, the PhD
 Academy, and the LAHP. Although the lockdown obliged us to postpone it, we envisage it will
 become annual. The IDEAS Cold War Studies Project has already rotated with George
 Washington University and UC Santa Barbara in hosting a successful annual International
 Graduate Student Conference (held in 2018 at LSE). A Cold War History summer school
 conference is also held for PhD and early-career scholars: four permanent staff have
 contributed.

 We have very good completion rates: 70% of students enrolled in 2014/15 had completed within
 four years, and a high success rate for placement post-PhD. We know from the last six years of
 the DLHE survey that three quarters of our graduates work in Education and Training, and the
 remainder in government, the private sector, NGOs, and charities. Recent graduates have
 secured postdocs and tenure-track jobs at the Universities of Amsterdam, British Columbia,
 Cape Town, Cardiff, Glasgow, Nottingham, Oslo, Oxford, Princeton, Sheffield, Strathclyde, and
 York, and at EUI Florence.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and Diversity: The Department is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive
 community. This commitment is implemented via our Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Committee,
 and our EDI Action Plan, both resulting from a departmental consultation and confirmed by a
 staff meeting in 2017. The Action Plan is a set of principles that highlights areas for work. It is a
 ‘living document’, to which further principles and action points can be added. The EDI
 Committee provides a forum through which staff and students at all levels can raise for
 discussion and resolution any matters relating (but not restricted) to race, ethnicity, gender,
 sexual identity, disability, and other protected characteristics. Examples of its work, building on
 the principles in the Action Plan, include the Department’s revised guidance on parental leave,
 the gender balance in hiring committees, and encouragement of applications to our programmes
 from under-represented groups. The committee meets once per term, although the Chair can
 convene additional meetings. It is allocated an EDI Fund (£2000 per year), which supports EDI-
 related events and activities. It holds two calls for bids annually, which are open to all members
 of the Department. It provided support for a PhD student-organised workshop ‘Integrating
 Gender into Historical Research’, with invited speakers, and an international discussion forum on
 racial discrimination in the context of the coronavirus.

 Although none of our staff has declared major physical disabilities, colleagues with RSI have
 received voice-activated software. The Department assigns mentors for all full-time staff below
 full Professor, through whom such issues can be addressed. Teaching and administrative
 responsibilities are distributed equitably, to ensure all colleagues have research opportunities.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Between 2013/14 and 2019/0 the Department’s research funding received totalled
 £1,309.067-10 (statistics also in REF 4b - this figure excludes Paulsen funding). We have not
 received funding from sources not reported in HESA returns.

 Our funders have included the AHRC, British Academy, European Commission, and
 Leverhulme. Our strategies for generating research income have included close co-operation
 with IDEAS: thus the Department was the co-recipient of major grants on Asian international
 relations (from Yayasan Albukha), for the Dahrendorf Symposium (Stiftung Mercator), China and
 Hong Kong (ESRC), and European Commission grants (via Westad and Ludlow) on CRISIS
 EUROPE and China’s Economic Relations (some were shared 50% with LSE Politics and
 International Studies). Again via Westad, we received a British Academy grant for the ‘Imperial
 Legacies’ project. The census period also witnessed successful Leverhulme applications by
 Baer, Spohr, Motadel, Prazmowska, and Umoren, as well as Rockefeller Foundation funding for
 Lewis. These latter awards were directed more towards individual research, and linked with buy-
 outs for the staff concerned.

 Since 2019 the Department has looked ahead by supporting a major AHRC application for
 research on Early Modern Asia and a major ERC application for research on currency stability in
 Russia (both sadly unsuccessful, though commended by reviewers). In 2020 the British
 Academy awarded a highly competitive post-doctoral fellowship to a candidate whom Sood will
 mentor. Further, the Department has helped secure pilot funding for the four projects with high
 prospective impact (and potential ICSs) in the next census period.

 There is a clear and continuing link between the Department’s research funding and its
 production of high-quality research and/or impact. In our discipline the crucial precondition is
 dedicated academic time, to visit archives, to acquire linguistic and other skills, and to write.
 LSE’s sabbatical scheme is generous, but alone could not have enabled the long list of
 monographs in REF2. Thus Spohr’s Leverhulme and subsequent secondment have facilitated
 her monograph on the end of the Cold War. Baer’s Leverhulme fellowship made possible two
 books. Motadel’s Philip Leverhulme award, Gusejnova’s seedcorn funding, Lewis’s Rockefeller
 funding, and Umoren’s Leverhulme and AHRC grants are expected to generate major
 publications and impact in REF 2027. As Gusejnova, Motadel, and Umoren are all recent

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointments, the funding will be invaluable for career development, and our research culture’s
 sustainability into the next decade.

 Among the major and prestigious competitively awarded research grants to highlight are:
 ‘Imperial Legacies’ from the British Academy (£304,609.62 - Westad); ‘China’s Economic
 Relations’ from the European Commission (£240,629.62 - Westad); ‘the Greek case’, from the
 European Commission (£244,397.86 - Ludlow); ‘The Cold War Jigsaw’, from the Leverhulme
 Trust (£101,368.85 - Prazmowska); ‘CRISISEUROPE’, from the European Commission
 (£97,270.40 - Ludlow); Motadel’s Philip Leverhulme prize of £100,000; Baer’s Leverhulme
 Fellowship, and Umoren’s Leverhulme Fellowship (on Eugenia Charles). KEI funding of
 £140,186 was obtained for the LSE Commission on Diplomacy (Westad – joint with IDEAS), and
 £10,170 for research on Peace Activism and the ‘New’ Cold War (Brunet – joint with IDEAS).

 The Department and its research clusters have benefited greatly from LSE’s
 organisational infrastructure to support research and impact. LSE’s Research and
 Innovation Division organized a seminar on international history funding sources, and reported
 on our pattern of applications, helping us to target the most promising sources. The School’s
 RIIF provided Gusejnova’s seed funding (Department RIIF funding in 2013-20 totalled £43,788).
 Division staff advised on preparing applications, and managed budgets once awarded. The
 Division’s Impact Manager provided sustained assistance in identifying and preparing our ICSs,
 as well as with our impact strategy generally. Baer, Best, and Harmer used LSE’s REF
 assistance funds for proof reading and indexing their monographs (total from this source
 £17,077-07 in 2017-20).

 Our research clusters represent a major innovation during the census period. £2,000 is available
 annually per cluster to support research and impact. The clusters rest upon an infrastructure that
 includes the Research Forum and our Staff Research Fund, which provides up to £1,420 per
 annum for each Assistant Professor and £920 for each Associate or Full Professor. The
 Department provides LSE Fellows with similar funding, and additional amounts may be available
 on application to the HOD.

 Operational and scholarly infrastructure to support research and impact: all permanent
 academic staff have their own office with desktop computer and printer; many also have a
 School laptop (supported by LSE Data and Technology Services). Research Fellows have
 shared offices. One of our professional services staff administers the relevant committees,
 research funding, and REF preparations. During the census period the Department relocated
 into an upgraded building on campus - Sardinia House. Space has been allocated for a
 designated PhD students’ suite, in close proximity to professional services staff and to a
 reception area where the SRF meets, further facilitating an inclusive research culture.
 The LSE Library is on the Department’s doorstep. On many topics its holdings compare with
 those of copyright collections, and include much foreign-language material. Increasingly its
 holdings are accessible online. Most books ordered for purchase are acquired promptly, and the
 LSE Archives contain major twentieth-century papers. The Library has a department contact
 who has an invaluable knowledge of its resources and who holds a History PhD. During the
 census period LSE has become home to the Women’s Library, and we made our gender-history
 appointment with this in mind.

 Our staff have drawn on LSE infrastructure, facilities, and expertise in relation to impact
 activities. KEI funds allocated to the Department were used for the workshop at the FCO on the
 official history programme; they supported a book launch (on Britain and Europe) by former FCO
 official Sir Stephen Wall. They paid for the ‘Our Histories’ podcasts, and Spohr drew on them for
 her joint project on Cold War summit conferences, leading to a conference and book.

 Between 2015 and 2020 we contributed eight sessions to the annual LSE Festival (which targets
 the general public), featuring departmental staff and outside speakers such as Professors Helen
 Graham and Annika Mombauer. Stevenson collaborated with LSE Library on three public-facing
 exhibitions, displaying material from LSE Archives and the Women’s Library; Spohr contributed

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to the LSE Works public events series (demonstrating impact), while Stephen Rainbird at the
 Cañada Blanch Centre monitored the Spanish press for Preston’s ICS.

 The Department benefits from Central London’s specialist research infrastructure. For
 international history resources, this is among the richest environments in the world, many
 facilities lying in walking distance. They include the GHIL, IHR, SSEES, SOAS, and Senate
 House Libraries, and the British Library with its newspaper division. Major archival collections
 are located in King’s College, the Imperial War Museum, and the British Library, as well as the
 National Archives.

 The best example of cross-HEI or collaborative use of research infrastructure is
 involvement in the London University central institutions, particularly the IHR, whose seminars
 are co-organized by a number of staff. Similarly, our PhD programme is affiliated to the LAHP.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations, Networks, and Partnerships: within LSE, the Department
 collaborates with IDEAS and the Cañada Blanch Centre. Externally, it collaborates with
 universities in Europe, the US, and Asia, at staff and PhD level. It co-hosts the German
 professorship with the GHIL and since 2017 has hosted a research fellow in modern European
 history funded by the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung. The Department co-funded two public
 conferences with the FCO Historical Branch in 2014 and 2019 (proceedings from the first
 appearing in a Journal of Contemporary History special issue), and in 2014 it hosted the British
 International History Group’s annual conference.

 Additionally, staff have individual collaborations: Ludlow was on the steering committees of two
 networks researching the history of the European Commission. Spohr undertook a joint project
 with Professor David Reynolds (Cambridge) on summit conferences, while Umoren was co-
 investigator for an AHRC network grant on ‘Black Female Intellectuals in Historical and
 Contemporary Perspective’, which supported workshops/public lectures at Oxford, LSE, Leeds,
 and Norwich. Best held a visiting professorship at Keio University (Tokyo); Baer, Prazmowska,
 and Spohr all held Leverhulme Research Fellowships; and Black held a Historical Society of
 Pennsylvania Fellowship, a Beckman Center Research Fellowship, and fellowships at Harvard
 and at Dartmouth NH, while Gusejnova was a Fellow at the Technische Universität Dresden.
 Motadel was a visiting professor at Sciences Po and visiting fellow at the Sorbonne as well as a
 visiting fellow at the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin; while Spohr was seconded to the Helmut
 Schmidt Distinguished Chair.

 Regarding research students, the Department joined the LAHP in 2018. It holds an annual
 graduate student conference on Cold War history with the IDEAS Cold War Studies Project and
 two American universities. It hosts a fortnightly research seminar with Sciences Po, Paris,
 meeting in Paris and London. A PhD exchange arrangement exists with EUI Florence. The
 Department plans to supplement its institutional partnerships in the next REF cycle, and has
 designated a staff member for this purpose.

 Government agencies, museums, libraries/archives, and the media, as well as the general
 public, have been our key research users, beneficiaries, and audiences. In 2008 Jones was
 appointed Cabinet Office official historian of Britain’s nuclear deterrent. He has published two
 volumes and briefed MOD and FCO staff, as well as US officials. He used LSE KEI funding to
 organize the seminar at the FCO on the role of official history in policymaking. Ludlow has
 briefed European Commission officials on the Commission’s history (to which his publications
 introduce them) and served on an advisory panel to the EU Council of Ministers on whether to
 produce an official history of the CM. He also briefed the UK’s Brexit negotiators. In addition to
 the Department’s co-operation with the FCO Historical Branch, it co-hosted commemorative
 1914-18 lectures with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Regarding museums, libraries, and archives, Gusejnova contributed to a workshop at the
 Museum of the Home (formerly the Geffrye Museum). Prazmowska forwarded to the Jewish
 Historical Institute in Warsaw a remarkable collection of postcards from Jews in the Warsaw
 Ghetto. Stevenson served on the Academic Advisory Group for the Imperial War Museum’s new
 First World War Galleries. Rajak advised on a First World War museum in Valjevo (Serbia), and
 Preston on a planned Spanish Civil War museum in Barcelona, while Spohr was elected to the
 advisory council of the museum for the history of the German Federal Republic. Similarly,
 Stevenson was consultant to the British Library’s Europeana 1914-1918 learning website and
 advised on LSE Library exhibitions, while Rajak belongs to Serbia’s Archival Legislation Working
 Group.

 We have multiple examples of staff informing media coverage. The BBC World Service and
 CNN interviewed Alvandi on Iran, and he contributed to a twelve-part series on its history.
 Gusejnova produced films on World War I for commercial publics via Amazon and Netflix, for
 TedEX London. She produced a Radio 4 feature, ‘The Tarpaulin: A Biography’ (viewing
 displacement and intellectual history through the medium of a fabric); she also received a 6,000-
 Euro grant for a documentary on German intellectual history. She is scripting a film on public
 history in modern Russia, and disseminated her research via the Russian-language Postnauka
 (42,000 views by March 2020). Lewis contributes a column in her local newspaper, reviews for
 The Times Higher, and participated in a ‘Timewatch’ episode, and a Channel Four documentary.
 Ludlow featured in a Radio 4 documentary on the death of the post-war international settlement,
 while Prazmowska was interviewed on the Warsaw Ghetto postcards by Polish television and by
 Ha’aretz (Israel) and featured in the Jewish Chronicle. The BBC and CNN interviewed her about
 the Polish bill to outlaw references to Polish involvement in the Holocaust. Motadel published
 essays and reviews in the Times Literary Supplement, The Guardian, The New York Times,
 New York Review of Books, and Literary Review, while Spohr wrote New Statesman articles on
 German and Soviet topics, and in the German press on the Cold War and on Helmut Schmidt.
 She was a consultant and presenter on a documentary on Helmut Schmidt for the German
 broadcaster ZDF, as well as for a ZDF series on ‘The Secrets of the Cold War’ (attracting 11.37
 million viewers). She provided BBC World live commentary on Helmut Kohl’s state funeral.
 Preston’s outstanding prominence in the Spanish media is detailed in his ICS. Harmer
 contributed to a piece on Fidel Castro for BBC2’s Newsnight. During the First World War
 centenary Stevenson appeared on ‘The Big Questions’, and on ‘Railways of the Great War with
 Michael Portillo’, for which he was historical adviser. He also advised 14-18Now! and the
 National Theatre. Finally, Umoren featured on Radio 3’s ’The Essay’ about W. E. B. Du Bois and
 was interviewed for BBC One’s ‘Fake or Fortune’. Through these means, the Department
 reached more diverse communities and publics, while also honing staff skills in
 dissemination.

 The Department has shown responsiveness to national and international priorities and
 initiatives. Its research has made wider contributions to society, not captured in its three
 ICSs or the discussion above. Notably, Ashton’s research on UK relations with Libya in 1988-
 2011 led him to mount a Freedom of Information Act challenge to the blanket closure on the
 Prime Minister’s Office Libya files at the National Archives. In 2018 an Upper Tribunal panel
 ruled that the Cabinet Office could not oppose release on grounds of the volume of material: an
 adjudication setting a ‘public interest’ precedent for reviewing and releasing government papers.
 Other contributions include Spohr’s briefing of MPs on Russia, and Lewis’s funding for studying
 Somali diaspora women in London and Covid-19’s impact on the Somali community. Lewis’s
 examination of Somali resilience is partly interdisciplinary, as is Schulze’s study of ethnic
 conflict and jihadism in Indonesia.

 Wider contributions to the research base: the Department has fully contributed to the
 sustainability of the discipline. Several colleagues hold journal editorships: Cant is co-editor
 of Historia Agraria de América Latina, Ludlow was editor of Contemporary European History and
 then on the editorial board: he is an editor of The Journal of European Integration History.
 Schulze is a co-editor of Contemporary Southeast Asia, and Sood a co-editor of the Journal of
 Global History. Alvandi, Harmer, Jones, and Ludlow are on the editorial board of Cold War

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History, Harmer is also on the boards of Historía and Izquíerdas (Chile) and The Journal of Latin
 American Studies. Jones is on the advisory boards for International Affairs and The Journal of
 Strategic Studies. Schulze is on the editorial board for Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, and
 Spohr on those for Diplomacy & Statecraft, The Journal of Contemporary History, and Zeitschrift
 für Politik. Stevenson served on the advisory boards of the English Historical Review and
 Journal of Strategic Studies. Other colleagues have reviewed for academic journals and
 publishers (including Best, Black, Cant, Casey, Gusejnova, Harmer, Jones, Keenan, Schulze,
 Sood, and Stevenson).

 Staff have also refereed academic publications and research proposals: Best is on the
 editorial board of PalgraveMacmillan’s 'New Directions in Asian History', while Casey refereed a
 proposal for a new journal, Global Summitry, which OUP is now publishing, and refereed book
 proposals for OUP, CUP, Cornell UP, PalgraveMacmillan, and Rowan & Littlefield. Umoren
 joined the editorial board of the CUP-LSE International Studies book series. Harmer refereed for
 University of North Carolina Press, CUP, and Cornell, Jones read manuscripts and proposals for
 Cornell UP, PalgraveMacmillan, and Routledge, and Keenan refereed manuscripts for
 PalgraveMacmillan and Bloomsbury. Schulze reviewed for OUP and Routledge; and Stevenson
 reviewed for CUP and OUP, as well as joining the reviewer panel for the German-based 1914-
 1918 Online: International Encyclopaedia of the First World War.

 Finally, regarding participation on grants committees and research councils, Ashton, Jones,
 Stevenson, and Stock have been external reviewers for fellowship proposals for the Institute of
 Advanced Studies (Princeton); Harmer has reviewed applications for CONICYT (Chilean
 Government) funding, and Spohr has refereed for the Austrian Fund, the European Research
 Council, the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research
 Council (Canada). Ludlow has joined the reviewers’ panel for the Netherlands Institute for
 Advanced Study in the Humanities and Social Sciences, Motadel joined the European Research
 Council grants panel, and Stevenson is in his second term on the AHRC Peer Review College,
 while Stock has reviewed for the Research Council of Norway. Similarly, Jones, Ludlow, and
 Stevenson have advised on UK and international professorial appointments.

 Many books in our submission have won distinctions or prizes. The Financial Times selected
 Alvandi’s Nixon, Kissinger and the Shah as one of the best history books of 2014; Black’s The
 Global Interior won the American Society of Environmental Historians’ George Perkins Marsh
 Prize for Best Book in Environmental History, the British Association of American Studies Best
 Book Prize, and the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations Bernath Book Prize.
 Casey received the Neustadt prize in 2015 and the American Journalism Historians’ Prize in
 2018; and Motadel’s Islam and Nazi Germany’s War received the Fraenkel and Walter Laqueur
 Prizes. Po’s The Blue Frontier received the Specialist Publication in the Humanities Award from
 the International Convention of Asia Scholars. Scanlan’s Freedom’s Debtors won a Canadian
 Historical Association book prize, while Spohr’s The Global Chancellor was nominated as book
 of the year by IP Zeitschrift and her Post-Wall, Post-Square was voted one of Wenderzeit’s Top
 Ten non-fiction books in November 2019. Umoren’s Race Women Internationalists was a finalist
 for the Pauli Murray book prize in black intellectual history.

 Further evidencing the Department’s reputation, its staff have given many invited lectures and
 keynotes across the UK and overseas, including serving as conference chairs.

 In the Pre-Modern cluster Baer gave public lectures at Oxford and Cambridge, Po gave a
 public lecture in Hong Kong, spoke at an international conference in China, and presented at
 Berkeley and to the Association of Asian Studies, Sood lectured at Doha, Trento, the European
 University of St Petersburg, and gave a keynote at a workshop in Cambridge as well as lectures
 at Radboud University (Nijmegen) and Leiden, and Stock gave public lectures at Birkbeck, UCL,
 and the British Academy.

 In the Europe cluster Gusejnova lectured at Cambridge, Dresden, Oxford, the German
 Historical Institute Moscow and the Finnish Institute in Rome, EUI Florence, and the IHR, as well

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as giving conference papers at Birmingham, Queen Mary, Sheffield, and Tampere Universities;
 Ludlow gave over 20 overseas presentations on his research, including four keynotes.
 Stevenson spoke on the First World War at the Breganski Arts Festival (Malta), the Fritt Ord
 symposium (Oslo), the Toronto International Festival of Authors, the Edinburgh International Arts
 Festival, the Japanese International Institute for Defence Studies, and the Liberty War Memorial
 in Kansas City. He spoke as part of the British Army’s ‘Operation REFLECT’ at RUSI and at
 Sandhurst, and gave keynotes at the GHIL and in a joint conference with the FCO Historical
 Branch. Finally, as detailed in the ICS, besides receiving a string of academic accolades Preston
 has been knighted for his services to the discipline.

 In the Cold War cluster Alvandi lectured at the Hague Institute for International Justice, the
 Carnegie Endowment, the Nixon Presidential Library, and Stanford University. He moderated a
 symposium on Iran at the Aspen Institute attended by former Secretary of State Madeleine
 Albright. Jones organized an IDEAS/International History conference on the life of Margaret
 Gowing, and gave presentations at Aldermaston, São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, the Woodrow
 Wilson International Center, Los Alamos, RUSI, and the University of Potsdam. Spohr spoke
 extensively in Germany and the US, including a keynote in Frankfurt for the Helmut Schmidt
 Journalism Prize, a keynote on Schmidt at the Bundeswehr University, and presentations at
 NATO headquarters, the European Parliament, Melovaer Fort (Norway), and two symposia in
 Washington. She co-organized two funded conferences in 2015 in Cambridge and London on
 international summitry. Zubok gave invited lectures at Oxford, to the Association for Slavic, East
 European, and Eurasian Studies in San Antonio, and a symposium at the Library of Congress.
 He was a panellist at the University of Virginia and gave the Alexander Dallin lecture at Stanford.

 In the World History cluster Best lectured at Gakushin University, Tokyo and the Freie
 Universität Berlin, and presented at the Japan Institute of International Affairs, while Lewis
 lectured to the Anglo-Somali Society, delivered the keynote at a British Academy-funded
 international workshop on South Africa, and lectured at Yale.

 Finally, in the Americas cluster Black gave the Paul A. Olson Lecture at the University of
 Nebraska, the Mergen-Palmer Lecture at George Washington University, and led
 seminars/colloquia at Stirling, Rice, Harvard, and Boston Universities, and at Williams College.
 Cant lectured (in Spanish) in Lima and Bogotá, and chaired a panel in Santiago (Chile), while
 Casey lectured at Ohio State and chaired a panel at the American Historical Association
 convention. Harmer co-convened two conferences on the revolutionary Left in Latin America
 organized by the Latin America-Europe Cold War Network (which the Department sponsors),
 and for which she received a British Academy Newton Award. She lectured in Santiago and
 organized a virtual special issue of the Journal of Latin American Studies on the Cold War in
 Latin America; while Umoren gave a memorial lecture at Leeds.

 The Department has hosted numerous research-related events, including a British
 International History Group annual conference, the Margaret Gowing conference in 2016, and
 the 2019 conference on the Nicaraguan Revolution. It holds an annual public lecture by a
 leading practitioner (in 2019 Professor Patricia Clavin). It hosts an annual Persian Gulf history
 lecture, and during the census period has hosted Austrian history lectures (sponsored by the
 Austrian Embassy) and First World War lectures (sponsored by the Commonwealth War Graves
 Commission). Eighteen public lectures were hosted in 2014-20. New books by colleagues are
 customarily marked by a book launch with outside commentators; outside speakers are also
 invited by the clusters and the postgraduate seminars. Where possible we record our public
 events and make them available on the ‘Podcasts’ section of our website. Finally, colleagues
 address more diverse communities and publics via the LSE Literary Festival and individual
 presentations to non-academic audiences. For example, Gusejnova joined the Young Walter
 Scott Prize team working with teenagers on history writing; while Stevenson gave over forty First
 World War centenary presentations to Historical Association branches, local history societies,
 schools, and the Western Front Association.



                                                                                              Page 14
