Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: C24 - Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure
 The Sport, Health and Performance Enhancement (SHAPE) Research Centre was launched in
 2015 to provide a structured, supportive and vibrant research environment in which to investigate
 the biological, behavioural and societal impact of sport and exercise for human performance,
 health and well-being. Health and well-being is one of the five core NTU strategic research
 priorities and SHAPE has benefitted from an institutional investment of around £40M in
 infrastructure that has created a high-calibre physical environment for research. This includes
 c£34M for two buildings housing some of SHAPE’s research laboratories. SHAPE was conceived
 with a strategic vision to promote and develop high-quality, multidisciplinary research across sport
 and exercise, which furthers understanding of individuals’ lifestyles, human health and well-being
 across the lifespan. It delivers research that impacts positively upon health outcomes,
 performance in elite sporting clubs and teams, public policy making, product development and
 public engagement with science and research. The Centre aligns directly to REF Unit C24.

 Since 2015, SHAPE has been central to the delivery of:

       an almost three-fold growth in research staff from 12.8 FTE (2014) to 33.4 FTE;
       a three-fold increase in the number of PhD students enrolled;
       a more than 5-fold increase in the income generated to support research;
       over 140 more peer-reviewed papers produced from NTU, from 58 papers in REF2014 to
        202 in REF2021; and
       the development of a global portfolio of international collaborations, with, for example, the
        University of Sao Paulo in Brazil and the Education University of Hong Kong.

 SHAPE developed from a Research Group of the same name (under the Biomedical, Life and
 Health Sciences Research Centre in REF2014) and is now one of four Research Centres within
 the School of Science and Technology (SST). SHAPE is directed by SALE who has overall
 responsibility for its management and strategic direction; he is supported by a Deputy Director
 (SUNDERLAND) and Research Group Heads (ELLIOTT-SALE, SHARPE, SUNDERLAND,
 WEEDON). Given the direct alignment of SHAPE with REF Unit C24, SALE also acts as Unit
 Coordinator, again supported by SUNDERLAND and an Advisory Group that includes the Head
 of the Department of Sport Science (NEVILL) and the Associate Dean for Research (ADR) of
 SST (McTERNAN). The Advisory Group helps determine strategic priorities and the utilisation
 and management of quality-related funds, striving to encourage multidisciplinary projects and
 dissemination. The SST Research Committee provides oversight of SHAPE activities, with
 reports provided on a quarterly basis. The ADR chairs a separate meeting for Unit Coordinators
 to provide School-level direction and, through membership of the University Research
 Committee and the University Leadership Team, a direct link between the Unit and the decision-
 making of the University.

 The Director of SHAPE meets regularly with Research Group Heads to discuss research strategy
 and performance. Each Group has its own local objectives that tie directly into the overarching
 strategic aims of SHAPE. Staff from each Group are well represented in the outputs submitted for
 consideration to REF2021 and our three impact case studies come from three separate Groups.

 The Musculoskeletal Physiology Research Group (MSPRG) investigates the effects of
 exercise and diet on the musculature and skeleton, under the leadership of ELLIOTT-SALE. The
 Group translates work that begins at the laboratory benchtop into the applied setting (e.g., elite
 athletes, the general population, and patients) for improved training and performance or for the
 treatment and management of disease. Our research ranges from health-related work to elite

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sports performance, covering topics including exercise physiology, nutrition, cellular and molecular
 biology, genetics and health. A major thrust of the Group’s activity is the effect of exercise training,
 diet and nutrition on bone health in athletes and military personnel; work that underpins one of our
 impact case studies.

 The Exercise and Health Research Group (EHRG) is led by SHARPE and explores the multitude
 of ways that sport, exercise and nutrition impacts human health and well-being, with a particular
 emphasis on the development of strategies and interventions. EHRG research focusses upon: the
 use of prebiotics and probiotics for health; amputees’ gait biomechanics, mobility and prosthetic
 devices (underpinning another of our impact case studies); the interplay of exercise and nutrition
 and how they affect cognitive function; and respiratory physiology, with a particular emphasis on
 whether the work of breathing affects exercise tolerance and whether nutrition can reduce
 symptom severity and improve quality of life in asthmatics.

 The Sports Performance Research Group (SPRG) led by SUNDERLAND completes
 multidisciplinary research to understand and improve cognitive and sporting performance across
 the lifespan, including: the identification of optimal methods of workload quantification to minimise
 time-loss incidence risk in elite sports teams; the impact of different modes, durations and types
 of exercise on cognitive performance; and aspects of the social environment in sport and physical
 activity to understand how those around us (coaches, parents, peers) can best support the child
 athlete. The Group’s team sport research (underpinning another of our impact case studies)
 focusses upon enhancing performance in international and professional team sports.

 The Sport and Society Research Group (SASRG) is a rapidly developing Group, led by
 WEEDON, comprising early career researchers (ECRs) publishing papers relating to the socio-
 cultural dimensions of sport, health and exercise. The Group is committed to socially relevant
 scholarship that impacts significant issues and debates across sociology, psychology and related
 fields. The Group connects research pertaining to diverse issues of violence, pollution, mental
 health, and gender discrimination, into real-world community initiatives, media communications
 and policy. The impact of this research, set out below, evidences a commitment to socially relevant
 scholarship.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Strategic Aims and Achievements
 SHAPE had four strategic aims for the current REF period:
     1. To impact positively upon performance and health through the delivery of high-quality
        services and consultancy that are underpinned by our excellent research;
     2. To increase the number of research-active staff within an inclusive and sustainable
        research environment;
     3. To increase research excellence, as evidenced by an increase in the average quality of
        our research outputs; and
     4. To increase our national and international reputation.

 These aims have been achieved as a result of investment in infrastructure and people, and a
 strategic focus upon developing our profile through a national and international research
 dissemination strategy to emphasise the Centre’s placement, prominence and eminence in its
 areas of expertise. In doing this, SHAPE has maintained a focus upon equality and diversity. Some
 of our major achievements are:

    1. Significant planned and targeted growth: expanding our staff base from 12.8 FTE in
       REF2014 to 33.4 FTE with a significant responsibility for research, providing evidence of
       a strong research environment and a sustainable platform upon which to base future
       research activities;
    2. A focus upon promoting equality and diversity: 41% of our staff with a significant
       responsibility for research are women and 97% of our staff believe that the University is
       committed to equality of opportunity (results from the most recent staff survey, with an 82%

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        response rate). In October 2020, the Department of Sport Science received an Athena
        SWAN Bronze Award;
    3. A 532% increase (from £191,973 to £1,020,927) in the income generated to support
        research compared to REF2014 (see Section 3), evidencing an upward trajectory in
        external research income. This is accelerating, with over two-thirds of the total income
        spend (£690,902) occurring in the last two years of the REF cycle. SHAPE has also
        received more significant grant awards (e.g., £940,677 from the UK MOD and over
        £200,000 from the Football Association) than in REF2014;
    4. Research activity and output production has increased since REF2014, with over 140 more
        papers produced from NTU (Scopus) during the current REF cycle. SHAPE has increased
        the visibility and impact of its research by successfully publishing in high profile
        multidisciplinary journals, including PNAS and Nature Communications;
    5. A significant increase in international collaborations (see ‘collaboration’ in Section 4 for
        details): 45% of the papers produced from NTU involved international collaborators,
        compared with just 19% in REF2014 (Scopus);
    6. SHAPE now has collaborations with researchers at institutions in over 20 different
        countries (e.g., University of British Columbia, Brock University, Jönköping University,
        University of Limerick, Education University of Hong Kong), demonstrating our growing
        reputation outside of the UK;
    7. A large increase in the number of charity (e.g., Rethink Mental Illness) and industry (e.g.,
        HUUB Design) collaborators, demonstrating our growing reputation beyond academia. For
        example, HUUB Design is funding and using SHAPE research to develop clothing
        solutions for elite endurance athletes and SHAPE researchers sit on the Rethink Mental
        Illness Physical Activity steering group, which assesses and develops a Sport England
        funded project to improve metal health through physical activity;
    8. A strong pipeline of doctoral research, with 40 PhD students having Directors of Studies
        from the Unit at the REF2021 census date;
    9. Generation of a high calibre research environment, SHAPE has benefitted from a
        significant investment in infrastructure (around £40M) and equipment (over £1M) and
        through strategic investment of our quality-related funds (c£472,692);
    10. The development of a Sport Performance Analysis Service, which helps to deliver real-
        world impact from our research.

 Facilitating Interdisciplinary Research and Impact
 It was identified early on in the REF cycle that interdisciplinary working was an important enabler
 to the development of a sustainable research environment and to increasing research excellence,
 as per our strategic aims. SHAPE has supported its researchers in developing collaborative
 interdisciplinary projects with colleagues across SST in the John van Geest Cancer Research
 Centre, Biosciences, Chemistry, Engineering and Physics; these have come to fruition, for
 example, in the form of PhD studentships from NTU funds and in project funds from two of the
 University Research Priorities (Health and Wellbeing, and Medical Technologies and Advanced
 Materials). This has contributed significantly to the 11 PhD students that involve or have involved
 SHAPE researchers on inter-departmental supervisory teams. Significant cross-fertilisation of
 ideas also takes place at various research-focussed events across SST, such as the School of
 Science and Technology Research Conference, Research Centre seminars, training events and
 research showcases.

 SHAPE, as part of its impact strategy (our first and foremost strategic aim), is committed to
 developing closer links with industry and sports organisations, coaches, practitioners and the
 general public. In recognition of the importance of developing impact in our research, SHAPE
 established an Impact Group (Chaired by ELLIOTT-SALE and MORRIS) tasked with embedding
 impact in our research projects. Development of SHAPE’s impact strategy has been supported by
 NTU’s significantly expanded Research Operations and Research Development and Knowledge
 Exchange offices. They have invested in workshops on impact that have allowed more focussed
 impact generation and knowledge exchange, which has contributed to changes in policy and
 practice for the stakeholders in our research. SHAPE’s links with industry have been strengthened


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by support for 50:50 funded PhD studentships through the University’s match-funding scheme,
 which provides joint funding along with an external funder. SHAPE has been awarded matched
 studentships with the English Institute of Sport, The Waterloo Foundation, HUUB and Natural
 Alternatives International, representing an internal investment of c£120,000.

 MSPRG, EHRG and SPRG have all produced impactful research that is showcased in an impact
 case study, providing evidence of end-user engagement with industry (e.g., Blatchford Ltd) and
 with sports organisations (e.g., English Institute of Sport, Football Association), practitioners
 (including performance nutritionists, physiologists, clinicians), athletes and the general public (e.g.,
 amputees). SHAPE has made use of its Academic Associate programme to underpin impact case
 studies and to increase the amount of impactful research being conducted beyond the current
 REF cycle. Through quality-related funds, SHAPE has supported impact case study leads with an
 Academic Associate who have helped to identify, record and evidence the impact generated from
 our research (using 50% of their time), whilst also conducting their own research in these areas
 (using 50% of their time). SASRG’s research, whilst not showcased in an impact case study, is
 highly socially relevant and helps to shape policy governance (e.g., England Boxing), garner
 media exposure (e.g., Canadian Broadcasting Company, The Conversation, The Irish
 Examiner) and support community initiatives (e.g., Love Fighting Hate Violence, Think Football),
 which provides evidence of a commitment to socially relevant scholarship. We have introduced a
 Sport Performance Analysis Service to provide sports science support to all, from recreational
 athletes to Olympians. SHAPE’s BASES and BPS accredited staff run workshops, individual and
 team testing sessions and screening and provide training prescription, as well as tailored
 multidisciplinary support sessions, that are underpinned by SHAPE’s Sport Performance
 Research providing direct impact to end-users.

 Further examples of the successful development of working relationships and the success of
 SHAPE’s approach to research dissemination through the media that have enabled and facilitated
 impact are reported in Section 4.

 Open Access and Data Management
 NTU Publication Policy mandates the deposit of the full text of journal articles in our institutional
 repository, which enables the sharing of research outputs and underlying data. For further support,
 a centrally managed open access fund was established in 2014 to increase our ability to provide
 immediate open access to outputs via the gold route. Within the Unit, this fund has supported
 around 20 publications since 2014, with immediate open access amounting to a total expenditure
 of circa £30K (see REF5a). The NTU Library has agreed publisher deals that have allowed
 corresponding authors from SHAPE to publish via the gold route, off-set against subscription costs
 (see REF5a). Our Research Data Management Policy ensures that research data are managed
 to the highest standards throughout the research data lifecycle and encourages researchers to
 make their data openly accessible to the maximum extent possible. A centrally managed storage
 service for research data provides a secure environment for personal, sensitive and confidential
 data, while the Arkivum client ensures the preservation and long-term archiving of datasets. NTU
 has a Research Data Management Officer, who provides advice and support on GDPR and safe
 and secure data archiving.

 Research Integrity
 Matters relating to research integrity, including research ethics, are overseen centrally and
 managed locally. The University Research Committee, chaired by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor –
 Research and Enterprise, and reporting to the Academic Board, is responsible for the
 development and monitoring of research integrity policies and procedures. The University
 Research Integrity Committee (URIC; SALE and NEVILL from SHAPE sit on this Committee)
 provides support and advice to Research Centres. Systems are in place to ensure research
 projects requiring ethical approval are robustly scrutinised; SHAPE research is supported by the
 activities of the Human (invasive) Ethics Committee (Chaired by SALE) and a Non-Invasive Ethics
 Committee (Chaired by NEVILL). Both committees report to URIC.


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Future Strategic Aims
 SHAPE intends to build upon the successful implementation of our current research strategy to
 ensure the long-term viability of our research environment. It will remain our vision to conduct
 multidisciplinary research at the highest level across the sport and exercise sciences in order to
 influence and impact human health and well-being. Our intention is to apply the knowledge from
 our research to techniques and tools that address the performance, health and well-being needs
 of individuals and populations. SHAPE will focus upon increasing its international reputation and
 the production of world-leading research with high impact, based upon the following aims:

    1. To be recognised for our world-leading research and an interdisciplinary research
       environment – SHAPE will strategically invest in infrastructure and equipment to make
       sure that researchers have access to resources at the forefront of latest developments.
       This will include making use of internal collaborations to enhance our research capability
       (e.g., collaborating with colleagues in the John van Geest Cancer Research Centre to
       access their GeoMX™ Digital Spatial Profiler to perform spatial transcriptomics). SHAPE
       intends to expand interdisciplinary research, underpinned by significant University
       investment in initiatives like the Medical Technologies Innovation Facility (opened at the
       end of 2020), which is intended as a key impact and commercialisation vehicle for cross-
       disciplinary research;
    2. Develop academic and industrial partnerships and promote civic engagement to
       increase the impact of our research – SHAPE will work with internal support structures,
       including our new Strategic Partnership Manager, to develop current or new relationships
       with external organisations that will add significant value and enable us to demonstrate
       better the benefits of our research to industry, sports organisations, athletes, coaches,
       practitioners and the general public. SHAPE will remain committed to preparing athletes
       for competition at the highest level but also to the realisation of a healthier society, with a
       view to addressing key questions and grand challenges (e.g., the ageing society);
    3. To increase the number and productivity of our international collaborations –
       SHAPE will direct resources towards forging deeper international links to increase our
       reputation for world-leading research and expand the reach of our impact. Lessons learned
       from strong current collaborations (see Section 4) will be leveraged to develop a greater
       portfolio of international research links, with, for example, countries like Israel, Canada and
       the USA;
    4. To develop the work of the Sport and Society Research Group – with a focus upon
       social justice within and across sports and exercise, to connect the Group’s current
       research on social, economic and environmental equality;
    5. Promote, retain and recruit high-quality, research-focussed staff at all levels – given
       its high proportion of early career researchers (ECRs), SHAPE will focus upon supporting
       their development towards research leadership through a focussed mentorship
       programme that will be targeted towards individual requirements, as identified in individual
       research plans (IRPs). Recruitment strategies will focus upon alignment to Research
       Groups, with a clear commitment to promoting equality, diversity and inclusion (focussing
       upon an Athena SWAN silver award application).

 2. People

 SHAPE Staffing Strategy
 Our recruitment strategy has been to seek out and appoint high quality staff who align with the
 aims of our Research Centre and Groups. SHAPE has recruited those who are, or have the
 potential to become, outstanding internationally recognised researchers, even if they are early
 career at the time of appointment. This strategy has been very successful; appointed ECRs have
 been promoted to associate professor (COOPER, SARKAR) or have been awarded grants as PI
 (e.g., VARLEY, HEALY). Several of our appointed staff (e.g., NEVILL, WEEDON, SARKAR,
 FAULKNER, CLAYTON) have received awards relating to their work (see Section 4).


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 This strategy is critical to our success, especially given that SHAPE has been through a period of
 significant growth since REF2014, almost tripling in size and expanding its senior staff base. This
 growth includes the recruitment of 1 professor (NEVILL), 7 mid-career researchers, and 18ECRs.
 SHAPE also recruited an independent research fellow (SANTOS) and a research technician. The
 ECRS were distributed between the groups to ensure they would be fully supported to develop
 their research expertise. For example, eight appointments were made into the SPRG to increase
 the interdisciplinary nature of the group and four ECR appointments were made into the SSRG to
 drive a developing research focus in Sport Sociology.

 Underpinning our significant growth is the fact that SHAPE has retained the majority of its staff
 who contributed to the REF2014 submission, with only four of them having left the University. Our
 impressive staff retention is evidence of a supportive research environment that is underpinned
 by our commitment to recognise the achievements of our staff through promotion. One member
 of staff was promoted to full professor (SALE) and five to associate professor (ELLIOTT-SALE,
 COOPER, MORRIS, SUNDERLAND, SARKAR). Eight members of staff have transitioned from
 Lecturer to Senior Lecturer (BARNETT, HEALY, JAMES, SARKAR, SAWARD, VARLEY,
 WEEDON, JOHNSTON). Four of SHAPE’s former PhD students (BISELE, SAWARD, VARLEY,
 WILLIAMS) have been awarded permanent academic positions.

 Staff Development

 NTU has developed a more structured and transparent approach to the allocation of research time
 during the REF cycle to support staff with the delivery of high-quality research. IRPs form part of
 the workload planning process, providing allocated time for staff to focus upon research. IRPs are
 used to support staff to deliver at the requisite level based upon research outputs, impact
 generation and research grant capture (whilst remaining cognisant of career stage and equality
 and diversity characteristics). This performance-based approach to research-time allowances has
 led to the sustained increase in the quality and quantity of outputs.

 Postdoctoral staff are actively supported in their transition to academic posts (either within
 SHAPE or elsewhere). Research staff are managed within the University’s appraisal framework,
 which involves regular career development meetings with senior academics. They can also take
 Careers and Employability Service courses to assist with career planning. The transition of our
 independent research fellow (SANTOS) to a full academic career is supported by a phased
 transition into a permanent lectureship, which is complemented by the provision of internal
 research funds enabling SANTOS to apply for and manage research grants and to experience
 sandpit style funding models. She is part of a wider SST network of independent research fellows
 who provide peer support and benefit from training and development.

 Early career academic staff benefit from reduced teaching and administrative loads. ECRs are
 allocated at least 500 hours per year of protected research time on their academic workload, with
 a further 300 hours per year allocated to training and development. Start-up money (up to £4,000
 per person) has been provided to our new starters and ECRs to assist the purchase of small
 equipment items (e.g., physical activity monitors) or consumables (e.g., assay kits). ECRs are
 encouraged to apply for internal research funds to provide capacity and equipment for external
 research grant applications. Research studentships are awarded to ECRs in association with
 more experienced staff who can act as a mentor. These mentors also guide: the development of
 IRPs; work at the international level; and applications for external research funding. Senior
 research staff are also encouraged to include ECRs on internal applications for research
 studentships, meaning that the ECR gains valuable experience in the supervision process. Apart
 from one newly appointed ECR, all are currently involved on PhD supervisory teams. ECRs are
 encouraged to attend and present at the SHAPE Research Centre Seminar Series, which allows
 them to practice the dissemination of their own research and observe and engage with world
 renowned researchers. Evidence of the impact of this support is that several of our ECRs (e.g.,
 CLAYTON, PIASECKI, VARLEY, HEALY, DOIG, APPS) have received external research grant
 funding (totalling over £175,000) from the British Nutrition Foundation, the Physiological Society,

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the British Milers Club, the Football Association, the British Academy, Rethink Mental Illness, the
 Society for Endocrinology and Li-Ning Company Limited.

 All academic staff have biannual performance review meetings with a senior academic to make
 strategic plans for the coming year and to select relevant staff development opportunities.
 Research accomplishments are celebrated and promoted via the Vice-Chancellor’s Annual
 Researcher Awards and two of our ECRs (FAULKNER, COOPER) have been the recipients of
 these awards. Quality-related funds devolved to SHAPE (c£472,692 has been spent between
 August 2014 and July 2020) are used for staff development to sustain existing research strengths
 and to underpin new developments through the provision of research studentships (e.g., the
 Academic Associate programme), journal publication costs, continued professional development
 courses, conference travel and sabbaticals (JOHNSON, BARNETT).

 Research Students
 SHAPE attaches great importance to its PhD programme and our postgraduate student
 community is core to our research environment. Professional Doctorate degrees are not offered.
 100% of our PhD students (n = 13), who completed their PhD programmes, did so within 4 years
 (full-time) or 8 years (part time), demonstrating the success of our recruitment, training and
 progression-monitoring activities. In the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey in 2019, the
 overall satisfaction in SST was 84%, which is 3% higher than the sector. Even more impressive
 was the 92% overall satisfaction reported by PhD students from SHAPE. There is an even
 stronger pipeline of doctoral research coming through, with some 40 PhD students having
 Directors of Studies from the Unit at the REF2021 census date. A key enabler of this healthy
 forward-looking trajectory in research student numbers has been the development of an Academic
 Associate programme whereby the research student completes their PhD research on a part-time
 basis, whilst also being employed to support teaching or impact activities, thus developing
 additional skills at the same time.

 SHAPE has diversified its doctoral funding award portfolio to include charities (e.g., The Waterloo
 Foundation, £35,462), industry (e.g., Manchester City Services Limited, £72,158; Bristol Rugby
 Club, £72,159) and other institutions (e.g., University College Birmingham and Birmingham City
 University, total £14,637). Internal investment has also been important, with SHAPE having
 received 13 NTU Vice-Chancellor Scholarship awards since 2014. The University’s match-funding
 scheme is a particularly important avenue for PhD research student support, as it provides joint
 funding along with an external funder. The external funder becomes a full partner in the research,
 benefitting from access to expert staff at the University and fresh new talent. The Unit and the
 PhD student benefit from pursuing collaborative research with real-world relevance and
 interactions with expert external researchers/practitioners.

 SHAPE invests heavily in the development and success of its postgraduates by, among other
 things, providing quality training, consumables money, and financial support to attend conferences
 to present their work (SHAPE supports attendance at one national and one international
 conference). Our success in this regard is perhaps best evidenced by the fact that our
 postgraduate researchers are highly employable (e.g., as practitioners with the English Institute
 of Sport, as university lecturers, and as postdoctoral researchers). Interdisciplinary PhD projects
 are strongly encouraged and supported, and SHAPE has around ten students who are co-
 supervised with NTU colleagues from across biosciences, engineering, physics, social sciences
 and psychology. SHAPE staff are also active supervisors on PhD programmes at other
 universities (e.g., Liverpool John Moores University, Loughborough University, Canterbury
 Christchurch University, Northumbria University, Manchester Metropolitan University, University
 of Limerick). Through our doctoral training alliance, researchers in SHAPE (SANTOS, SALE,
 WILLIAMS) lead on two projects alongside NTU colleagues and collaborators from Liverpool John
 Moores University, Manchester Metropolitan University, the University of Southampton and the
 University of Reading.

 Our postgraduate student community is supported by the NTU Doctoral School and School
 Postgraduate Research Tutor (ELLIOTT-SALE from SHAPE is the Postgraduate Research Tutor

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for SST). The NTU Doctoral School has responsibility for overseeing admissions and the
 registration, progression-monitoring and examination of PhD students.

 Training and Support
 SHAPE provides a supportive research environment to help students reach their full potential;
 supervisory teams consist of at least two University staff. Academic staff must attend a Doctoral
 School training course within twelve months of commencing their first research student
 supervision. All research students participate in a rolling programme of professional development
 through the Doctorate Plus Programme (DPP), designed to empower students to create an
 individualised package of activities to support them through their PhD journey. The wide range of
 workshops and activities available maps to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and
 all PhD students undertake training in research methods, data management and knowledge
 transfer through courses provided by the Doctoral School as part of the DPP. This is
 supplemented by specialised workshops and seminars in research practice that are run by our
 Postgraduate Research Tutor and ADR (e.g., statistics, ethics and research integrity, project
 management, appointment and interview processes, and equality and diversity awareness). For
 international students where English is not their first language, English classes are provided.
 Subject-specific training is undertaken by supervisory teams and generic skills training is provided
 throughout the programme. There is support for the dissemination of their research, which
 includes presenting a conference poster at the Science and Technology Annual Research
 Conference in the second year of studies. Final year students present at the SHAPE Research
 Seminar series. The strength of our training and support is evidenced by the fact that our students
 have won awards at major conferences (e.g., PAPAGEORGIOU won two awards at the American
 College of Sports Medicine [ACSM] Conference in 2016 and TOWNSEND won the Best Oral
 Presentation award at the Bone Research Society Meeting in 2016).

 Progress Monitoring
 The Doctoral School has carefully designed, implemented and audited quality control procedures
 for monitoring the progress of PhD students. Research student programmes are formally
 monitored on a six-monthly basis. This can include a panel meeting with supervisors and an
 independent assessor, who acts as an independent third party, providing input into the design and
 progress of the PhD programme.

 Supporting and Promoting Equality and Diversity
 NTU has a strong commitment to equality and diversity (see REF5a) as evidenced by the recent
 (April 2019) Athena SWAN Bronze Award. As part of the four-year action plan to improve gender
 balance, the University is committed to increasing female representation among the professoriate
 to 35% by 2022, as well as investing in the NTU Cohort Aurora Programme, designed to address
 the under-representation of women in leadership positions across the sector. Each School has an
 Athena SWAN Champion who leads efforts in addressing local challenges in relation to gender
 equality and associated intersectionality. SST recognises that staff training improves knowledge
 and understanding of equality and diversity and it has introduced essential unconscious bias
 training for all staff. Across all academic and research staff in SST, 32% identify as women (28%
 in 2014), 16% identify as Black Asian and Minority Ethnic (13% in 2014), and 4% declared with a
 disability (4% in 2014) in 2019. As part of its commitment to advancing equality, diversion and
 inclusion, NTU has:
      Developed the Support of Academic Returners (SOAR) scheme to support colleagues
          returning to academia following a period of caring-related leave;
      Actively monitored diversity in all governance committees;
      Ensured all meetings take place between the core hours of 10am and 4pm;
      Taken a flexible and inclusive approach to staff working from home where possible.

 SHAPE abides by and is committed to each of these policies and initiatives.

 SHAPE is a vibrant place to research, enriched by the diversity of perspectives, cultures and
 backgrounds brought by its students, staff, visitors, local communities, and national and

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international collaborators. In October 2016, a Self-Assessment Team was established within the
 Department of Sport Science (from where the majority of SHAPE Researchers come) to promote
 equality and diversity and prepare for the Athena SWAN Bronze Award. This was received in
 October 2020, reflecting efforts to promote gender equality and to identify and address challenges
 particular to the discipline.

 A culture of equality and diversity underpins the SHAPE ethos and is encouraged through ensuring
 the gender balance of seminar speakers, celebrating key events (such as Black History Month
 and International Women’s Day), ensuring that our commitment to equality and diversity is
 included in job advertisements and including Athena SWAN as a standing agenda item at staff
 meetings. The Department of Sport Science implements NTU maternity and adoption leave
 policies, which follow best practice and legal compliance. In SHAPE, 14 of our 34 staff (33.4 FTE)
 with a significant responsibility for research are women, equating to around 41% or our staff
 research base. 50% of our professors and 40% of our associate professors are women,
 representing a good proportion of our senior staff base. Three staff members returning from
 maternity leave have received between £2,500 and £5,000 from the SOAR scheme to support
 career pathway development and have also benefitted from a lower teaching timetable for 12
 months in order to aid in the recommencement of research.

 The results of our most recent staff survey, with a response rate of 82%, showed that 97% of staff
 in the Department of Sport Science believe that the University is committed to equality of
 opportunity for all of its staff. 100% report that they do not feel harassed or bullied at work. The
 vast majority of our staff also report that the University acts fairly, regardless of protected
 characteristics, with regards to recruitment (100%), progression and promotion (90%) and
 development opportunities (94%). Similarly, between 97% and 100% of our staff also report that
 the University respects people equally regardless of age, disability, gender reassignment, sex,
 sexual orientation, race or religious belief.

 SHAPE’s REF submission and output portfolio were developed in accordance with the institutional
 code of practice. Category A staff were advised about the window for the voluntary declaration of
 Individual Staff Circumstances, and the University’s Head of Equality, Diversity, Inclusion and
 Wellbeing provided a question-and-answer session and debrief to explain the process, how it
 works, how reductions work, and emphasising that the process was voluntary.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 SHAPE research has been supported by a significant upward trajectory in funding; income spend
 has grown from £191,973 in REF2014 to £1,020,927 in the current REF period; this evidences
 sustained growth, particularly given that the spend for RAE2008 was £7,575. The income spend
 within the current REF cycle is accelerating, with over two-thirds of the total (£690,902) spent in
 the last two years. SHAPE also has over £500,000 of awarded funding carrying over into the next
 REF cycle. SHAPE has received awards from an array of funders, with a spend of £806,163 from
 UK industry, £133,019 from UK central government, £47,036 from UK based charities and £10,539
 from overseas industry.

 SHAPE’s significant successes include a major grant award (total £940,677) from the UK Ministry
 of Defence (SALE, ELLIOTT-SALE) to support the work of the Women in Ground Close Combat
 Team in determining the efficacy of a physical development programme to enable servicewomen
 to better return to the physical demands of their job following pregnancy. Evidence-based
 postpartum physical training is urgently needed to prepare servicewomen for their safe return to
 physically arduous roles. The PERFORM study has been designed to restore physical function
 after childbirth and enable servicewomen to achieve their physical employment standards upon
 return to duty. Subject to organisational endorsement, these findings will be implemented through
 improved training and rehabilitation policies and will be shared with stakeholder communities
 across defence (Women’s Health Advisory Group, Women’s Health Rehabilitation Steering


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group), and wider occupational and athletic communities. Our work in this area is also supported
 by funding from the Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Clinical Commissioning Group (£63,000) to
 complete projects relating to maternal obesity in the local population (ELLIOTT-SALE, SALE).
 Taken together, it is anticipated that this work will form the basis of a future impact case study
 around female activity and health.

 SHAPE’s research on improving team sports performance and reducing the incidence of major
 injuries has been supported by the award of over £210,000 of funding from Manchester City
 Services Limited, Bristol Rugby Club and the Football Association (MORRIS, NEVILL,
 SUNDERLAND, COOPER, VARLEY). This research has changed policy and practice relating to
 youth talent identification and development, training load prescription, monitoring and data
 management and analysis.

 SHAPE has also been supported by the English Institute of Sport (SALE, ELLIOTT-SALE) for work
 relating to the bone health of athletes and by a US company, Natural Alternatives International
 (SALE, ELLIOTT-SALE, DOIG), for our work on the potential therapeutic actions of carnosine.
 This work laid the foundations for the development of partnerships that will allow us to sustain the
 longer-term impact of our work beyond single studies. Some of this work has allowed us to
 promote interdisciplinary research across SST (e.g., the work on carnosine funded by Natural
 Alternatives International has the potential to develop from a microbiological approach through to
 human studies).

 Our ECRs have been successful in attaining external funding for research (e.g., WILLIAMS from
 the Physiological Society, CLAYTON from the British Nutrition Foundation, PIASECKI from the
 British Milers Club and HEALY from Rethink Mental Illness). SHAPE has also received ‘in kind’
 research support, including the provision of supplements for our ergogenic aids research,
 scanning equipment to support our bone and ligament research and garments to support our
 compression garment work.

 Infrastructure
 SHAPE is supported by a comprehensive research infrastructure. The University Research
 Operations and Research Development and Knowledge Exchange offices support SHAPE with
 grant writing and submission and both pre- and post-award administration. The Doctoral School
 supports SHAPE with everything related to doctoral programmes. The University’s library
 infrastructure provides subject-specific staff for SHAPE who manage our open access institutional
 repository (iREP) and support/train staff with resource management activities. The NTU Digital
 Technologies Team provides support for computing and information technology, including the
 provision of specific software and hardware and training relating to their deployment.

 Facilities
 The University has continued a high level of investment in the physical infrastructure relating to
 SHAPE research activities and our doctoral community. There has been c£34M worth of
 investment in two new buildings utilised by SHAPE.

 The Interdisciplinary Science and Technology Centre (ISTeC) has a state-of-the-art biochemistry
 laboratory, exercise physiology laboratory, nutrition suite and food laboratory. The development
 of the ISTeC laboratories has facilitated interdisciplinary research, given that it houses research
 from several Centres. For example, using these laboratories, collaborations between researchers
 in C24 (SALE, DOIG) and A03 (TURNER) have examined the potential therapeutic actions of
 carnosine.

 The Engineering building, which incorporates human factors and sports engineering, and houses
 a state-of-the-art environmental chamber, has helped to foster multidisciplinary research
 collaborations between exercise physiologists (FAULKNER and GRIGGS, submitted to C24) and
 electronic (HUGHES-RILEY and DIAS, submitted to D32) and mechanical (SIEGKAS, submitted


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to B12) engineers. These collaborations have helped to develop new systems for monitoring,
 modelling and improving human function in both sports and health sectors.

 The University has invested in the refurbishment of SHAPE facilities, including an additional
 biomechanics laboratory (c£372,000), a repurposed exercise physiology laboratory (c£28,000)
 and a new psychology laboratory (c£80,000). SHAPE has benefitted from c£3.2M investment in
 sporting facilities that provide space and equipment for research. These include: a new artificial
 3G pitch and associated facilities (c£1.57M) that supports our footwear and team sports research;
 a new Tennis Centre (c£1.1M) that has provided a safe isolated space for our paediatric health
 and performance research; and upgraded strength and conditioning facilities (c£550,000) that
 support training studies.

 Our two biomechanics laboratories house motion capture systems and both ground embedded
 and portable force plates. These systems have mobile EMG, accelerometery and insole pressure
 measurement systems, complemented by software packages for musculoskeletal modelling,
 simulation and statistical analysis. They underpin a wide range of our research activities, including
 those relating to amputee gait and sporting footwear.

 Our sport and exercise psychology laboratory allows quantitative and qualitative research to be
 conducted. The new laboratory provides space for interviews and focus groups and equipment for
 effective transcription (e.g., Dragon software) and data analysis (e.g., NVivo on laptops). It enables
 researchers to investigate, understand and improve the performance and learning of complex,
 dynamic skills across a range of domains and to perform in-depth investigations into the skills that
 underpin performance, including perceptual-cognitive (anticipation and decision making) and
 motor skills, and the relationship between perception and action. Cognitive booths enable
 participants to complete cognitive tasks requiring self-control with no distractions.

 Our scanning laboratory encompasses dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and peripheral
 quantitative computed tomography machines for the determination of body composition and bone
 mass and strength. The laboratory also includes a GnRB arthrometer for the measurement of
 ligament laxity. These machines are used extensively for our exercise, diet and musculoskeletal
 research. When combined with our new collaborative capabilities in MRI (capital investment of
 c£0.5M), SHAPE has a powerful core capability for musculoskeletal imagery relating to the effects
 of exercise and diet on the musculoskeletal system.

 Our four exercise physiology research laboratories are equipped with a range of ergometers,
 expired air analysis systems and blood analysers. Each laboratory incorporates specific
 equipment for its primary research use: 1) paediatric exercise physiology; 2) respiratory
 physiology; 3) exercise performance; and 4) health physiology. The exercise performance
 laboratory incorporates ultrasound, combined functional near infra-red spectroscopy (NIRS),
 electroencephalogram (EEG), thermal imaging, neuromuscular dynamometry with electrical and
 magnetic stimulators and a breath-by-breath expired air system. The health physiology laboratory
 includes all equipment for the assessment of anthropometry, as well as an isokinetic dynamometer
 and purpose-built dynamometers for neuromuscular assessments. The respiratory laboratory
 incorporates breath-by-breath systems and equipment for the measurement of respiratory
 pressures – using gastric and oesophageal balloon catheters linked to pressure transducers for a
 wider data acquisition system. Using this approach, work done by the diaphragm, rib cage muscles
 and abdomen can be measured. “Volitional” pressures at rest and during exercise can be
 measured, as well as “evoked” trans-diaphragm pressures, using magnetic stimulation of the
 phrenic nerve.

 SHAPE has a second environmental chamber that is British Olympic Association accredited and
 allows the manipulation of temperature, humidity and oxygen levels for physiological, nutritional,
 psychological and health research.




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Nutrition Lounge and associated kitchen provides a purpose-built area for nutrition research
 and a relaxing environment for participants. It encompasses cognitive function booths for the
 assessment of the impacts of nutrition and exercise on cognitive function in children, adolescents
 and adults.

 Our exercise biochemistry laboratory contains equipment to determine the basic biochemical
 responses to exercise and diet and also includes tissue culture facilities. SHAPE also accesses
 collaborative core facilities across SST including, but not limited to, flow cytometry, high
 performance liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and OMICS capabilities.

 To support the continued growth and operation of these facilities, SHAPE has benefitted from an
 investment of over £1M on equipment since 2014. This includes isokinetic dynamometers,
 exercise ergometers, MRI (part-bid), DXA, FlexCell and cell culture equipment, instrumented
 treadmill, new Qualisys camera system, force plates, two breath by breath gas analysers,
 ultrasound, a thermal imaging camera, a global positioning system, Firstbeat heart rate systems,
 a NIRS system and EEG.

 SHAPE has supported (totalling £155,218 from quality-related funds) the running costs of
 research, primarily for PhD students and ECRs. These costs largely relate to laboratory
 consumable costs, blood collection equipment, transcription services, publication and open
 access costs and travel/accommodation to support field studies. This also includes investment in
 smaller items of equipment including Actiheart5 systems for exercise metabolism studies, video
 cameras, dictaphones, transcription software, accelerometers, ergometers, laptops to run
 cognitive function tests and small items of equipment for the cell culture.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 In line with two of its key strategic aims, SHAPE has focused upon 1) developing our national and
 international reputation and 2) impacting upon performance and health through the delivery of
 high-quality services and consultancy, underpinned by our excellent research. A key to this has
 been developing the number and quality of our national and international collaborations, which
 has been achieved through a research dissemination strategy, supported by funds for conference
 attendance and international collaborator visits. In order to expand the impact of our research,
 SHAPE has encouraged, through informal discussion and the staff appraisal process, the
 development of closer links with industry and charities to allow direct exploitation of our research.
 Below are some of the key achievements:

 Collaboration
 SHAPE has active collaborations locally, nationally and with countries on five continents. Our
 collaborations now extend to over twenty countries worldwide, including: Australia, Austria,
 Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Egypt, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, the
 Netherlands, Portugal, Qatar, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, United States,

 Significant international collaborations include:
     SALE and ELLIOTT-SALE collaborate with the Applied Physiology and Nutrition Group at
         the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil (since 2010). This collaboration has expanded
         significantly during the current REF cycle, with four successful grants held in Brazil; SALE
         was awarded a Science Without Borders grant to visit Brazil for six weeks each year for
         three years. SALE and ELLIOTT-SALE have been supported by Santander travel grants
         and have participated in teaching activities at USP. The collaboration has yielded over 20
         peer-reviewed papers.
     SALE has started collaboration with the University of Limerick (Ireland) and the Sport
         Ireland Institute on a PhD project funded by the Irish Research Council, relating to the
         impact of low carbohydrate diets on bone health and (re)modelling in elite endurance
         athletes.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       BARNETT collaborates with the Department of Rehabilitation at Jönköping University,
        Sweden (since 2013). This has included collaboration on research grants held in Sweden
        and the US, along with Erasmus supported periods of collaborative teaching and research
        in Sweden and the UK. The collaboration has resulted in three publications and
        international conference presentations.
       WEEDON collaborates with Professor Brian Wilson at the University of British Columbia,
        Canada (since 2015). This collaboration relates to studies about sport journalism, which
        has yielded two high-quality papers.
       SUNDERLAND collaborates with Associate Professor Amr Hassan at Mansoura
        University, Egypt (since 2019), which has resulted in the publication of two innovative
        papers incorporating advanced data analytical techniques including machine learning.
       COOPER, MORRIS, SUNDERLAND and NEVILL collaborate with Dr Sun Fenghua, at the
        Education University of Hong Kong (since 2015). This involved working on collaborative
        grant applications to the Hong Kong Government Research Fund. COOPER visited the
        Education University of Hong Kong in February 2017. This collaboration resulted in four
        joint grant applications, two peer reviewed journal articles and one invited book chapter.
 SHAPE researchers collaborate with academics at over 20 institutions across the UK. For
 example, ELLIOTT-SALE collaborates with Liverpool John Moores University on a project, funded
 by the Racing Foundation, relating to the identification and development of key physical and health
 characteristics of jockeys. SHAPE researchers collaborate with eight other Departments
 (Biosciences, van Geest Cancer Research Centre, Law, Psychology, Physics and Maths, Animal,
 Equine and Veterinary Sciences, Engineering, Sociology) across NTU, which is particularly
 encouraged through a programme of events and activities related to the NTU Research Priorities.
 For example, COOPER is collaborating with colleagues across NTU on a project titled “Small
 Steps, Big Changes Evaluation project’, which was funded by the Nottingham City Care
 Partnerships (£931,376).

 Contribution to Research Base
 Editorial Board Membership:
 Our academics have held 20 positions on editorial boards during the current REF cycle, including:
 Journal of Sports Sciences (SUNDERLAND), European Journal of Sports Science (SALE),
 Frontiers in Sports Nutrition (SALE), Frontiers in Physiology (SUNDERLAND), Frontiers in Sports
 and Active Living (MORRIS), PLoS One (SUNDERLAND), Nutrition and Health (SALE, ELLIOTT-
 SALE), BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders (PIASECKI), Prosthetics and Orthotics International
 (BARNETT), Psychology of Sport and Exercise (SARKAR), International Journal of Sport and
 Exercise Psychology (SARKAR), Sensors (SUNDERLAND, MALCOLM, MAGISTRO), Journal of
 Sport Psychology in Action (SARKAR) and European Journal of Applied Physiology (ELLIOTT-
 SALE).

 Grant Reviewing:
 Our staff have reviewed grants for National and International awarding bodies. Examples include:
 Medical Research Council (SALE, CLAYTON), Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research
 Council (SALE, JAMES), Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (BARNETT),
 Economic and Social Research Centre (SUNDERLAND), The Knowledge Foundation
 (SUNDERLAND), Rosetrees Trust (SALE), Wellcome Trust (SALE, BOAT), Dunhill Medical Trust
 (SALE), National Osteoporosis Society (SALE), British Heart Foundation (COOPER),
 Physiological Society (SUNDERLAND), National Science Centre (Poland) (SALE), Natural
 Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (SALE).

 Conference Organisation and Attendance:
 Our staff have attended over 200 national and international conferences. SALE has been an
 organiser of five Highlighted Symposia and two Tutorial Lectures at ACSM Annual Meetings since
 2014 and was on the International Scientific Committee of the International Congress on
 Carnosine and Anserine in 2014 (Tokyo, Japan) and 2017 (Louisville, Kentucky, US). SARKAR



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organised the BASES Psychology Division Day Conference at NTU (May, 2018) and NEVILL
 organised the BASES Sport Performance Division Day Conference at NTU (May, 2018).

 Invited and Keynote Talks:
 SHAPE staff are regularly invited to give talks and keynote presentations at National and
 International scientific meetings. For example, SARKAR has given keynote talks at the
 Netherlands Olympic Committee National Coach Platform; WEEDON gave an invited talk to the
 European Association for the Sociology of Sport Conference (Bo, Norway, 2019); FELTON gave
 a keynote presentation to the World Congress of Science and Medicine in Cricket (Loughborough,
 UK, 2019); SALE gave the Roger Harris Honorary Keynote Lecture at the 15th Annual Meeting of
 the International Society of Sports Nutrition (Clearwater Beach, USA, 2018); ELLIOTT-SALE gave
 a keynote lecture at the iSHARE conference on Female Athlete Health and Performance
 (Montreal, Canada, 2019).

 Contributions to Professional Associations and Learned Societies, Fellowships and Awards:
 In 2019, NEVILL was awarded an OBE for services to sport and sports science. SHAPE
 researchers have made important contributions to professional associations: SALE is a Fellow of
 ACSM and Chair of the ACSM BONE Interest Group. He also sat on the ACSM Membership
 Committee, reviews abstracts and is a judge for the GSSI travel award at ACSM Annual Meetings.
 SALE is the nutrition editor for the BASES magazine (The Sport and Exercise Scientist) and
 participated in the 2019 GSSI XP as an expert panel member, giving a talk on “Nutrition for Athlete
 Bone Health”. SUNDERLAND is a Fellow of BASES. SUNDERLAND and NEVILL review
 abstracts for the BASES annual meeting. SUNDERLAND is a reviewer for BASES Accreditation
 (sports science support and research) and is the network representative for The Physiological
 Society and BASES. PIASECKI sits on the early career steering group of the Society of
 Endocrinology and on the affiliate working group of the Physiological Society.

 WEEDON won the Young Researcher Award from the European Association for the Sociology of
 Sport (2019) and FELTON was awarded the best paper by a new investigator at the International
 Society of Biomechanics in Sport (2017). SARKAR won the BPS division of sport and exercise
 psychology PhD award (2015) and the Association for Applied Sport Psychology Dorothy V. Harris
 Memorial Award in 2020. APPS won the best poster award at the 13th Footwear Biomechanics
 Symposium (2017) and FAULKNER has received an American Physiological Society select
 award. CLAYTON won the GSSI/ACSM Young Investigator Award (2015) and the Nutrition
 Society Postgraduate Competition (2015). SHAPE researchers have authored four BASES Expert
 Statements relating to ‘Conducting and Implementing Female Athlete-Based Research’
 (ELLIOTT-SALE), ‘Extracellular Buffering Agents’ (SALE), ‘Interventions for improving
 performance in the heat’ (SUNDERLAND) and ‘The Role of Breakfast-Physical Activity
 Interactions for Energy Balance and Metabolic Health’ (CLAYTON).

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 Coach and Practitioner Development and Education
 A central approach of the Unit’s impact strategy (our leading strategic aim) is to embed research
 into sporting practice through partnership with sports organisations, coaches and practitioners.
 Within elite sport, FELTON runs coach education programmes for the English Cricket Board
 focused upon the development of fast bowling technique to improve performance and reduce
 injury.

 Others have been involved with coach education in football, Olympic committees and professional
 sport. For example, SARKAR helped to develop coach and practitioner education and professional
 development guidance relating to the cultivation of resilience in individuals, teams and
 organisations that include the Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme, the US Olympic Committee,
 the Netherlands Olympic Committee, the Football Association and the Premier League.

 HUNTER has provided coach education sessions to the FA Women’s High-Performance Centre
 around nutritional strategies to support elite football performance. HEALY has worked with the
 same group on promoting mental health and well-being. ELLIOTT-SALE sits on the Football

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association Scientific Advisory Group for the development of Women’s Football; the group’s remit
 is to develop women’s football from grassroots participation through to elite performance.

 MATTHEWS has run research translation days for coaches, practitioners and academics to inform
 practice on the empowerment of women through combat sport participation. This was used by
 UNESCO in their work on martial arts and combat sports, including the production of an
 educational resource (Women in Combat Fighting, Empowering Female Coaches). MATTHEWS
 has contributed to the development of a coach education toolkit around the idea of “Love Fighting,
 Hate Violence”. This translates research on this topic into a campaign to raise awareness of the
 important moral difference between sport-based combat and violence. It encourages practitioners
 and fans of martial arts and combat sports to reflect upon this distinction and to encourage various
 forms of anti-violence action. SARKAR was invited by the Centre for Research and Evidence on
 Security Threats to provide a session on “performance and coping under extreme stress” that
 focused upon lessons for security and law enforcement practitioners; this was written up as a
 report and published as an article in its magazine.

 Youth Development
 SHAPE researchers focus upon the effects of exercise and physical activity on the physical and
 psychological development of young people. For example, COOPER, SUNDERLAND, MORRIS
 and NEVILL have completed research with schools across the UK that has resulted in the
 implementation of physical activity programmes to develop health and cognitive performance.
 SAWARD, MORRIS, NEVILL and SUNDERLAND have been working with elite football academies
 and international hockey development squads on systems for talent identification and players’
 physical and psychological development.

 Product Design and Development with Industry
 HUUB Design is commissioning and utilising research by FAULKNER to develop clothing
 solutions for elite endurance athletes. These clothing solutions include fabric development and
 treatments to influence thermal conductivity by improving sweat evaporation and performance.
 This also includes other clothing and equipment developments for elite triathletes to reduce
 hydrodynamic and aerodynamic drag, to increase athletes’ efficiency and improve performance.
 FAULKNER has been integral to the development of a new wheel set with improved aerodynamics
 for elite cyclists with Parcours, which resulted from collaboration on a research project to better
 understand the distribution of yaw during outdoor cycling and how this impacted upon design
 requirements of bicycle wheels. APPS has conducted research alongside footwear manufacturers
 (e.g., Li Ning (China) Sports Good Co. Ltd) to provide information on how footwear construction
 influences foot movement, which links to the improvement of footwear design for performance,
 comfort and reduced injury risk. SHAPE researchers have engaged with industrial partners to
 improve their products; examples include the development of a climbing training tool, product
 testing on recovery gels and garments and the efficacy of dietary supplements for performance
 and health (e.g., beta-alanine, prebiotics).

 Impact on the General Population
 SHAPE, as part of a University-wide initiative, runs several outreach activities aimed at engaging
 school age children and young people with higher education and research. For example, SHAPE
 runs the High-Five programme, which is aimed at school pupils in Year 5 who come onto campus
 and explore basic physiological responses to exercise, including muscle activation and kinematic
 analyses during jumping. SHAPE also runs the Active-Eight programme, aimed at school pupils
 in Year 8, who come to the campus overnight to experience university life and also explore wider
 elements of sport science, such as motor control, nutrition and footwear biomechanics. The Aim
 Higher programme is provided for pupils in Years 11 and 12 who come from areas of low
 socioeconomic status for a Sport Science taster day at the University. They experience a sample
 lecture followed by a practical session (usually standard physiological responses to exercise) and
 some basic analyses of their findings. These sessions were delivered to around 300 pupils from
 10-12 different schools. VARLEY and PIASECKI went to the Royal Society to deliver a session to
 over 300 children and parents on bone adaptations to space flight and how exercise is important

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to the maintenance of bone mass, as part of the Physiological Society’s outreach event on space
 physiology and the Mars mission. VARLEY runs sessions for local lower league professional
 football clubs (Mansfield Town and Peterborough United), whereby students from the University
 administer a battery of field-based tests aimed at assessing football specific performance. This
 had the dual benefit of providing an affordable service to these local clubs and provided some
 much-needed real-world experience for our students. In line with this, SHAPE provides students
 with the opportunity to gain experience with local sporting clubs (e.g., Nottinghamshire Cricket,
 Nottingham Rugby, Nottingham Forest FC), who also benefit from sports science support.

 SHAPE researchers sit on a number of charity and parliamentary steering groups. For example,
 COOPER sits on the Nottingham City Childhood Obesity Forum, with Councillors, public health
 professionals and a representative from the Small Steps, Big Change project. Their aim is to
 identify factors influencing childhood obesity in Nottingham and to produce a plan to tackle the
 increasing prevalence of obesity in young people. HUNTER has advised parliamentarians to help
 them establish a new All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on the Human Gut Microbiome, with
 the aims: “to highlight the role of the gut microbiome in physical and mental health and its capacity
 to prevent many disorders and improve or slow others; to inform debate about how this will save
 money for the Treasury and NHS; and to enable communications between interested parties and
 relevant parliamentarians”. HUNTER has been given honorary membership of the APPG and is
 its honorary Scientific and Research Adviser. HEALY sits on a Mental Health Through Sport
 Partnership steering group, which aims to use the mobilisation of the Commonwealth Games (as
 part of its legacy) to promote and improve mental health and well-being of people in the West
 Midlands through a series of symposia and workshops. HEALY also sits on the Rethink Mental
 Illness Physical Activity steering group, which assesses and develops a Sport England funded
 project to improve metal health through physical activity.

 Media and Dissemination
 SHAPE researchers invest a significant amount of time on the dissemination of their research to
 non-academic audiences. For example, VARLEY appeared on BBC Radio 5 Live to talk about
 genetic predisposition to injury and sporting prowess (May 2018). This was picked up by ABC
 radio in Australia. Our researchers have written over 15 articles for The Conversation that have
 reached several million readers, with the three articles penned by CLAYTON on intermittent
 fasting being particularly popular, having a total of well over 1M reads. The Conversation articles
 relating to ‘What do athletes actually eat?’, ’What supplements do scientists use, and why?’ and
 ‘Winter Olympics: why many athletes will be struggling with asthma’ penned by WILLIAMS have
 also been extremely popular with over 780,000 reads; some of these articles were also featured
 in the mainstream media.

 Our researchers have been prominent across the BBC in the last academic year, with FAULKNER
 appearing on BBC 2’s Trust Me I’m a Doctor, giving his expert view on whether hot or cold drinks
 are better at cooling us down. PIASECKI appeared on BBC Radio 5 Live discussing her research
 relating to the starting age of master athletes. SARKAR appeared on BBC Radio 5 Live talking
 about mental health in elite sport and the psychological impact of retirement. ELLIOTT-SALE
 featured on BBC Sport providing her expert views on the effect of the oral contraceptive pill on
 female athlete performance.




                                                                                              Page 16
