Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Huddersfield Business School (HBS) comprises four departments, three of which contribute to
 UoA17; the fourth department is Law (UoA18). Throughout this document when referring to HBS
 we are discussing achievements within UoA17 and in particular the departments of:
      Management
      Accounting Finance & Economics
      Logistics, Marketing, Hospitality and Analytics
 Each department has a professorial Head of Department (HOD) providing strategic leadership,
 and a number of subject group leaders (SGL) with operational responsibility for research and
 enterprise (R&E) and teaching and learning (T&L) respectively. There are three professorial
 Associate Deans for R&E, T&L, and International. Thus, the School has a matrix organizational
 structure to ensure strategic targets are met. All activities are supported by a professional
 services support (PSS) team which is led by the School Manager

 The increased importance of research to HBS is signalled by the introduction of a permanent
 Associate Dean Research & Enterprise (Roper) in July 2017, recruited externally and who is a
 senior manager within the School, and a member of the Strategic Leadership Team (SLT). A
 reorganization at middle management level where subject group leaders (SGL R&E) with a
 specific responsibility for enhancing the research culture within their group has also been
 introduced. The role of SGL R&E has been separated from SGL Teaching and Learning in order
 to highlight the equivalence of R&E with our teaching-related activities.

 Building on our 2014 submission we have formed three Research Centres within the School,
 namely:
      The Research Centre for Sustainability, Responsibility, Governance and Ethics (SURGE)
      The Behavioural Research Centre (BRC)
      The Northern Productivity Hub research centre (NPH)

 Research Centre Directors are senior members of academic staff and form part of the research
 support structure within the School. The activities of the Research Centres are described in
 more detail later.

 Vision and Strategy
 Building on our strong heritage and regional links, our vision is to be internationally renowned for
 meaningful engagement with communities and organisations and impactful research. Our
 mission is to undertake responsible research and enterprise that enriches the communities and
 organisations with which we interact.

 Following our REF2014 success, we have built a UoA17 strategy which reflects HBS’s vision
 and mission and directly links to the University’s Strategy and Areas of Strategic Research
 Importance (ASRI) - a key aspect of the University Research Strategy. Priority ASRI thematic
 areas which are of direct relevance to the UoA17 strategy include sustainability and productivity.
 The main University R&E aims are summarised below:

       To increase international recognition via the volume and quality of research outputs

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       To increase research and knowledge exchange income

       To become a focus for research into responsible leadership and business, productivity
        improvement, impact, and enterprise

 Our UoA strategy is one of research inclusivity whereby all members of staff are encouraged
 and expected to engage in high quality research. Our aim is to have all staff active in research.
 The School’s inclusive approach aligns with the University’s REF Code of Practice and has
 resulted in 72% of academic staff being submitted to REF2021. All staff are on the same
 contract whereby they are expected to conduct research as well as teaching and no staff are on
 teaching-only contracts. We have sought to submit as many staff as possible to REF2021 and
 have not set classification criteria that are difficult to achieve. For example, membership of a
 Research Centre is not subject to research performance criteria and individuals are considered
 to have significant responsibility for research if they meet the criteria for being a main PhD
 supervisor at the University.


 Research Strategy - Linking 2014 and 2020
 In REF2014 we laid the foundation for continued growth and strengthening of research in
 Business and Management Studies. The main objectives which have evolved from our position
 in 2014 include:

       Shift towards becoming research intensive by 2020
       Implement a staff recruitment and promotion policy which attracts and retains research-
        active staff in areas relating to the School’s strategic research interests and with potential
        for producing high quality research
       Continue to increase the size of the professoriate to provide good quality research
        leadership
       Aim for 45% staff publishing at an international level by 2018
       Focus on and consolidate existing areas of strength

 Below is an evaluation of the extent to which these objectives have been achieved.

 The primary aim detailed in our 2014 REF Environment Statement was to become research
 intensive by 2020. Although difficult to define, we believe we are moving towards this objective.
 This can be demonstrated, for example, by moving from 18.8 FTE submitted to REF2014 to 85.6
 FTE staff deemed to have significant responsibility for research and hence submitted in
 REF2021, an exponential rise; and moving from three impact case studies to seven (i.e. more
 than doubling the number) demonstrating the importance of impactful research to HBS. In
 addition, our postgraduate research (PGR) programme has grown during the period, from 90
 FTE PGRs in 2014 to 146 FTE in 2020 (188 individuals, 88 of which are PT). We have
 expanded our programme and used bursaries and fee waivers to encourage PGRs. We have
 invested £532k in doctoral bursaries during the REF period and see this as an investment that
 will produce a return in the next REF period.

 Over the REF period, we have demonstrably changed our staff recruitment and promotion
 strategies. All new and promoted staff must now demonstrate their commitment to high quality
 internationally excellent academic research. We expect to see research outputs, a research
 pipeline and a plan to be produced by new recruits and those applying for promotion at all levels.
 In 2014, there were no staff on the Reader grade. Four staff have been internally promoted to


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reader as well as two externally appointed Readers recruited during this period. In addition, the
 professoriate has grown from 9.3 FTE in 2014 to 16.6FTE in 2020. Our recruitment strategy is
 to significantly extend and strengthen research leadership within the School and enhance
 mentoring capability.

 Significantly, our strategy has been to increase the quality of our research outputs, not just the
 quantity. Those members of staff publishing in high quality international journals (proposed
 45% staff publishing at international level by 2018 in our REF2014 statement) rose to 69% by
 academic year18/19 and is expected rise further to 100% by 2025.

 In order to direct the research effort of HBS we have consolidated existing areas of research
 strength and formed three interdisciplinary Research Centres aligned with our vision and
 mission. In our REF2014 statement, three themes were detailed: responsibility; business
 improvement; and entrepreneurship and enterprise and senior staff were appointed to lead the
 new Centres (Bamford, Willis and Kusev). Work on “business/organisation improvement; start-
 up/scale-up support” led to the creation of the Northern Productivity Hub (NPH). “Responsibility”
 has widened during the REF period and is a major theme of the Research Centre for
 Sustainability, Responsibility, Governance and Ethics (SURGE) and our third Centre, the
 Behavioural Research Centre (BRC) acts as a standalone centre with significant contributions to
 both NPH and SURGE. All Centres are engaged in enterprise and/or executive education. Our
 Centres link clearly to the themes of our 2014 statement and have naturally evolved to
 encompass the interests of new staff.

 The 2014 statement also stressed that the HBS strategy was to concentrate on areas of
 research strength. Since then and evidenced by the increased size of our REF submission, we
 have been able to expand our areas of research interest. Our Centres are divided into research
 clusters that allow more focused areas of research activity to take place. These areas are as
 follows:

       NPH: Sustainable supply chains; digital transformation; applied finance and economics;
        human capital

       BRC: Organizational behaviour and wellbeing; Decision making and behavioural
        economics; Consumption and markets

       SURGE: Sustainable and resilient communities; corporate governance and ethics;
        responsible people and professions; public policy and social justice

 The strategic objectives of our Centres are to produce and publish high quality research in world
 leading journals, to generate income through research grants, knowledge transfer partnerships
 and enterprise initiatives and to build on the growing synergies and interdisciplinary opportunities
 created by the co-location and research interests of HBS colleagues, broader University of
 Huddersfield Research Centres and our wider academic and policy-making network.
 For example, HBS is an advanced signatory of the Principles for Responsible Management
 Education (PRME), an initiative of the UN Global Compact, which is dedicated to PRME. As a
 core strategic goal, the School is strongly committed to sustainability and responsible
 management education in relation to PRME’s six Principles - Purpose, Values, Method,
 Research, Partnerships and Dialogue. In addition to complementing the multidisciplinary
 direction of our Research Centres, our biannual PRME School report features in detail how the
 HBS curriculum and staff research activities align with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
 Examples from our Research Centres include, from NPH, financial ethics and governance-

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 areas of strength exhibited by colleagues include quantitative studies of corporate disclosure
 (e.g. voluntary, social, environmental) and corporate governance, as seen in the work of
 Elmagrhi and Al-Najjar respectively. From BRC, Davies, a Chartered Psychologist and
 Registered Occupational Psychologist (Health & Care Professions Council), has a research
 strength on understanding people in organisations, in particular at key career transition points.
 Her work on retirement/extending working life has been published in Frontiers in
 Psychology, Ageing & Society and Employee Relations. Other impactful research from BRC
 includes the work of Kusev (Behavioural Science, Risk), Thornton (Strategic networking,
 Innovation) and Roper (Branding, Consumption) who also leads the Academy of Marketing’s
 Special Interest Group in Brand, Identity & Corporate Reputation. Research from SURGE
 includes work led by Mswaka and Brazilian collaborators (Teodósio and Moreira,The Pontifical
 Catholic University of Minas Gerais, Brazil) addressing the lack of academic evidence on the
 impact of enterprise activity and training as interventions to reduce recidivism. Research focuses
 on the potential of social enterprise in reducing recidivism in Brazilian open prisons, contributing
 to the better upskilling and rehabilitation of prisoners. A recent Times Higher Education news
 feature promoted the research strengths of various SURGE members around the UN
 Sustainable Development Goals.


 Impact Strategy
 We are mindful of external policy documents, such as the UK Industrial Strategy and the United
 Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in guiding us towards research likely to have
 impact. We are in the process of mapping all HBS research against the SDGs as a means of
 identifying research relating to the cross-cutting theme of responsibility as per our mission and
 vision. Several of our researchers have influenced national and international policy (see
 Contribution to Economy and Public Engagement section). Our UoA17 submission includes seven
 Impact Case Studies (ICS) which have been chosen to demonstrate this and evidence the variety
 of research, the diversity of where such work is carried out and its wider geographical reach.

 A table of summarising our Impact Case Studies appears below:

               Title                  Lead                          Summary

     Building Resilience in           Wood           Research in African countries
     Wetland Farming                                 (Ethiopia, Zambia, Malawi and
     Communities in East                             Uganda) has shown how seasonal
     and Central Africa                              wetlands can be managed sustainably
                                                     to improve food security, increase
                                                     resilience and mitigate impacts of
                                                     climate change. Codified as the
                                                     Functional Landscape Approach
                                                     (FLA), it has provided institutional and
                                                     practical innovations for wetland
                                                     farming enabling households to
                                                     accumulate capital, diversify
                                                     livelihoods and develop enterprises.
                                                     Research has also influenced policy in
                                                     Ethiopia and Zambia.




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             Title               Lead     Summary

    Enabling the                 Wood     Research has contributed to
    Sustainable                           developing enterprises that allow local
    Development of                        people to draw revenue from tropical
    Forests in SW                         forests whilst maintaining forest
    Ethiopia Using an                     integrity. The research developed a
    Innovative Forestry                   Participatory Forest Management
    Management                            method that brought 151,000 ha of
    Technique                             forest under management by
                                          communities. Twelve forest micro-
                                          enterprises and seven marketing
                                          cooperatives have helped to improve
                                          livelihoods, especially impacting
                                          women. The work has contributed to
                                          new Federal forest legislation covering
                                          land occupied by 25m people.

    The application of          Bamford   SCRUM research, an agile design-
    SCRUM in continuous                   oriented approach to project
    improvement in a                      management improvement
    traditional                           methodologies, has been applied and
    manufacturing firm                    embedded within a manufacturing
                                          organisation through a KTP. Deluxe
                                          Beds Ltd of Huddersfield achieved
                                          cost savings of over £1.8m in 24-
                                          months through improvements to
                                          manufacturing processes, company
                                          infrastructure, and customer relations.

    Developing a Global         Gregory   The public relations profession is
    Capabilities                          globalising, but no recognised
    Framework for the                     framework for benchmarking
    Public Relations                      capabilities of practitioners worldwide
    Profession                            exists. This is problematic when
                                          assessing current and future role
                                          proficiency and expectations.

                                          The Global Alliance (GA), the sole
                                          confederation of public relations
                                          professional bodies worldwide
                                          (representing 280,000 professionals),
                                          has sought to remedy this. The HBS
                                          research, commissioned by GA, led to
                                          The Global Capability Framework. The
                                          Framework is being adopted by
                                          professional bodies, employers,
                                          academics and individuals around the
                                          world, and has been acknowledged as
                                          a ‘game changer’ for the profession.




                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Title                        Lead      Summary

    Social controversy           Lever     Expanding markets for kosher and
    and business                           halal food present significant economic
    compliance                             opportunities, but animal slaughter for
    requirements within                    meat raises business compliance, and
    expanding religious                    cultural and religious issues. HBS
    food markets                           research is supporting businesses to
                                           enter these markets by the Halal Food
                                           Authority (HFA), Morrisons
                                           Supermarket, the Agriculture and
                                           Horticulture Development Board
                                           (ADHB) and Fera Science. The
                                           research has impacted policy at the
                                           Department for Environment, Food
                                           and Rural Affairs (Defra) and British
                                           Veterinary Association (BVA). This has
                                           been achieved by refocussing dialogue
                                           with stakeholders about transparent
                                           ways of slaughtering animals and
                                           labelling meat to reduce controversy
                                           and address consumer anxieties.

    Advancing                    Nikitas   HBS research has inspired authorities
    Sustainable Mobility                   in Drama, Greece, to prioritise cycling,
    in Greece Using Bike-                  create its first bike-sharing scheme
    sharing and Walking                    (BSS) and implement the first walking
    School Buses                           school buses (WSBs) in Greece.

                                           Twelve cities, including Athens, are
                                           using the findings to develop their
                                           Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans
                                           (SUMPs) and more than 5m people
                                           benefit from the resulting policy
                                           changes. The Hellenic Ministry of
                                           Environment and Energy (HMEE) has
                                           adopted the research as a policy
                                           guidance tool and is implementing
                                           sustainable transport policies and
                                           planning interventions across Greece.

                                           The BSS and WSB projects have
                                           improved health and wellbeing,
                                           reduced traffic congestion, air pollution
                                           and noise nuisance, and battled social
                                           exclusion.




                                                                                       Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Title                             Lead           Summary

     Improving leadership               Willis        The communications profession often
     learning, practice and                           neglects leadership learning. HBS
     diversity in the                                 research sets out priorities for
     Government                                       communication leaders to enhance
     Communication                                    behaviours and improve practice. The
     Service                                          work underpins a bespoke Masters
                                                      programme delivered to more than 200
                                                      leaders in the Government
                                                      Communication Service (GCS). The
                                                      research has improved the strategic
                                                      influence and impact of those
                                                      participating in the programme,
                                                      enhanced how their organisations
                                                      communicate, encouraged reflection
                                                      and reflexivity, while also helping to
                                                      increase gender diversity in senior
                                                      roles. It is significant given that GCS
                                                      delivers communication supporting
                                                      Ministers’ priorities, enables the
                                                      effective operation of the service and
                                                      ultimately improves lives.




 To support our research impact activities staff have been allocated additional research hours to
 develop ICSs and we have recruited an Impact Support Officer (ISO) to help embed impact
 more widely into our research thinking from an embryonic stage. Going forward, we intend to
 appoint a Research Manager who will have responsibility for working with academic staff to
 identify impactful research from the outset of a project, and this can be developed into Impact
 Case Studies for the subsequent REF.


 Interdisciplinary Research
 The impact of our work links to our Research Centres which encourage interdisciplinary research.
 For example, the BRC includes interdisciplinary contributions and collaborations from five units of
 assessment including Business and Management Studies (17), Psychology, Psychiatry and
 Neuroscience (4), Engineering (12), Computer Science and Informatics (11) and Law (18). Within
 the BRC members develop and implement behavioural science to support businesses and
 policymakers to understand, predict and manage behavioural challenges successfully. The BRC
 initiates original interdisciplinary research both within the University and with external collaborators
 and partners. The BRC includes researchers with backgrounds in behavioural science,
 management, marketing, economics, logistics, law, psychology, computing and artificial
 intelligence. The research expertise of the members spans quantitative and qualitative research
 methods, experimental science, psychometric and agent-based modelling, as well as behavioural
 model development and testing.

 The NPH is a multidisciplinary Research Centre operating within a broad spectrum of economics,
 finance, operations and supply chain management, transport, strategic management and big data.
 NPH research aims to understand, measure and improve performance and productivity of private
 and public institutions including the impact of the economic environment and regulation on these

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outcomes. NPH staff proactively collaborate with researchers in other Schools including:
 Computing & Engineering on business data analytics, AI, manufacturing supply chains and
 cybersecurity; with Art Design and Architecture on circular economy within the technical textiles
 sector. HBS aims to conduct research based on practical relevance to managers, policy makers
 and to wider participants of the economic activity.

 SURGE brings together colleagues with a passion for promoting good environmental practice,
 fairness and accountability in business, government and society. SURGE comprises >80
 academic researchers and professionals from a wide range of disciplines, stretching beyond
 HBS, to encompass an eclectic mix of researchers from areas such as international
 development, enterprise, finance, HR, law, geography, marketing, operations, logistics,
 leadership, communication, sociology, tourism, economics, hospitality, events and engineering.

 HBS holds a three-day internal research conference in January each year; the fifth of which is
 planned for January 2020. These events have led to some interesting interdisciplinary
 discussions and collaborative opportunities, including with collaborative partners who are also
 invited. Conference engagement has increased; over the past 5 years the number of papers
 presented has risen from 68 papers in 2016 to >100 papers submitted in 2020.

 Future Strategy
 Going forward we will build on our current strategic aims and objectives to:

        Further develop our inclusive research agenda to become a truly research-intensive
         School by REF2027. This will be demonstrated by all staff publishing at an international
         level. Several initiatives will be implemented in order to progress to this including the
         appointment of an HBS Research Manager to actively work with researchers in the
         School and wider University community to encourage more impactful research
         publications and grant applications.

        Capitalise on macro-environmental events in its research - for example, the Covid
         pandemic and Brexit. During the Covid-19 crisis, the University introduced a special
         research fund to encourage relevant research programmes. HBS was extremely
         successful and received funding for nine projects. Successful projects include work on
         consumers’ and companies’ behavioural responses to Covid including unethical
         reactions; local food systems; compliance with social distancing; impacts upon small
         local businesses; digital learning in a crisis; and the financial impact on the elderly.

        Encourage greater economic and societal impact from our research and to this end
         have a KPI to achieve 15% of our publications with “end-users” outside of the university
         system, by 2025. We will also develop mechanisms for measuring and tracking impact
         of our research.

        Establish a Responsible Management Forum underpinning all aspects of research
         and teaching within HBS.

 To realise our impact ambitions, we have already implemented a number of approaches
 including the appointment of a Director of External Engagement who, through growing our
 external business networks, can ensure that messages about our research are disseminated to
 external users, and that the needs of business are communicated back to academics in the
 School.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Secondly, HBS will be working more closely with Huddersfield’s 3M Buckley Innovation Centre
 (3MBIC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the University that encourages business-to-academia
 collaboration and promotes innovation. In October 2020, HBS partnered with 3MBIC (and the
 Kirklees Local Authority and the Huddersfield Examiner) to launch the Kirklees Top 100
 Companies. This is a list of key companies in the Kirklees region, compiled from financial
 metrics. Thus, we now have a list of key companies with which we want to build connections (if
 they don’t already exist), and which we can use to increase the impact of our research.

 Open Research
 Open access is encouraged by our use of the Elsevier PURE system to record the full research
 contribution of HBS and the wider University. Publications that we judge to be 3/4* quality with a
 Huddersfield affiliated first author are supported by paying for gold open access. Additionally, as
 per funders criteria, Open Access reports are available for industry and policy-led events – one
 such event was led by Lever, who hosted a symposium on food waste solutions and the circular
 economy for policymakers and industry in 2018 and another was led by McEachern around food
 poverty in 2019. In addition HBS and Calderdale Council have worked on a range of research
 projects using open data on Calderdale Dataworks, as well as new data generated by students,
 allowing them to engage with local government services to provide a new perspective on some
 of the challenges that are being faced.


 Research Ethics and Integrity
 Given that our mission and vision revolve around responsibility, research ethics and integrity are
 important to us. HBS aligns its research ethics and integrity strategy with the principles of the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the University’s Code of Practice for Research, An
 Integrity Champion has been appointed within HBS (Kara) and no issues relating to research
 integrity have been referred to the Champion during the REF period. The School Research
 Ethics Committee, chaired by the Integrity Champion, reports into the School Research and
 Enterprise Committee (SREC), and then to the University Research Committee where Action
 Plans are annually reviewed. Our HBS Research Conference encourages integrity in all aspects
 of research both explicitly (a special session was organised during a School research day in
 June 2019) and implicitly by example. Four members of HBS staff are members of the
 Committee of Publication Ethics (COPE).

 HBS’s mission and vision drew on the REF2014 document as part of its development and we
 see our inclusive approach to staff participation in REF2020 as a result of our achievements and
 performance that have been informed by a strategic and logical approach throughout the period,
 clearly linking the REF2014 statement to the current one.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The School, like the University, aligns with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and staff and students are supported at all stages of their careers. During this REF
 period, HBS has, in line with the University’s strategy, implemented an approach whereby all
 academic staff are expected to hold doctorates. When appointing at Lecturer level, candidates
 must have a doctorate, or be within 6 months of achieving it. 106 staff now have doctorates, a
 percentage of 80% within UoA17. This mix of staff development and doctoral policy is aligned
 with our responsible approach to staff management to ensure that staff are developed, trained

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and retained in a sustainable manner. We have graduated 43 staff with doctorates since 2014
 (at Huddersfield and externally) with 18 staff currently studying for a doctorate.

 Our staffing policy includes the encouragement of Visiting Professors, both incoming and
 outgoing. A list of visiting professorships held by HBS staff (11 during the period) is provided in
 section 4. We recently appointed Prof. Martin Johanson from Uppsala University via a
 Leverhulme grant (>£100k) that allowed him to be a full-time visitor for 12 months and work with
 ECRs, co-authoring and reading papers to accelerate their research careers. An objective of the
 next REF period is to introduce procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between
 academia and business, industry or public/third sector bodies. The development of our
 relationship with 3M Buckley Innovation Centre will be used to facilitate this. At present
 sabbatical/study leave is limited to staff undertaking PhDs who are allocated a 6-week writing-up
 period. However, development and implementation of a sabbatical policy will be a priority for the
 coming period.

 Evidence of the success of our people strategy includes the exponential rise in the staff being
 submitted in this UoA relative to our 2014 submission. Moving forward to REF2027, the
 continuation of our staffing policy has the aim of further increasing the numbers of staff
 conducting high quality research.

 Staff Support

 Staff Recruitment and Promotion
 Our academic staffing policy in terms of recruitment and promotions is clearly linked to our
 research objectives and targets and reflects our vision and mission. For internal promotions at
 all levels, staff must exhibit a strong internationally excellent research record combined with
 ambitious but feasible research plans and an accompanying pipeline of outputs.

 We have a clear induction programme where new recruits meet the Associate Dean (R&E) to be
 apprised of the importance of research in the School, our strategy and their research interests
 discussed in order to recommend an appropriate Research Centre for them to join. We do not
 routinely have fixed term staff, other than occasionally to cover maternity leave. Staff with a
 contractual fraction above 0.5FTE, of which HBS has very few, must engage in doctoral training
 opportunities as well as all other initiatives listed in this statement. All staff, whatever their
 fractional appointment are encouraged to join in staff development including doctoral training
 where necessary. We have eliminated the Principal Lecturer (grade 9) whereby staff could be
 promoted on the basis of management and administration roles in favour of promotion to Reader
 (grade 9) which is only awarded when an individual has an established record of research
 achievement.

 Staff without a doctorate have been able to pursue studies either at Huddersfield or at an
 external university. Financial support and substantial workload hours (20%) have been made
 available to staff doctoral candidates. Going forward we will continue to support these staff in
 terms of training opportunities and conference attendance as they transition from PGR to
 research active staff. We expect to see the benefits of a fully qualified workforce during the next
 REF period, allowing us to set more challenging research objectives.

 Research Mentoring and Appraisal

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 HBS has a clear policy on research mentorship with all staff allocated an appropriate research
 mentor. A specific research mentoring scheme for Early Career Researchers (ECRs) has been
 introduced whereby they are mentored by more established researchers and the scheme is
 overseen by the UoA17 Co-ordinator. In general, individuals have support from their research
 mentor (one of our professoriate or other senior member of staff), their SGL (R&E), and
 AD(R&E), with the Research Centres acting as a further locus of support.

 The annual appraisal (supplemented with a mid-year review) has a specific form called the
 Research and Enterprise and Activity Planning (REAP) which is completed by all staff and
 agreed with their mentor and then their appraiser. The REAP form ensures academic staff
 commit to writing their research aims and rationale, record research progress throughout the
 year (publications, funding applications, PGR supervision) and then agree research targets for
 the year ahead. It also provides an opportunity to discuss forthcoming conferences, existing and
 potential international collaborations and the actual and potential impact of their work. Individual
 training and development planning is the final component of the REAP form and a programme of
 support is available including targeted Workshops (e.g. Building Researcher Resilience, Writing
 retreats, Reading Clubs). Formal meetings to discuss and prepare personal research plans are
 then used as a basis for discussion at each staff member’s Personal Development and Personal
 Review (appraisal). Senior staff have benefited from development and training. For example,
 Johnes, Roper and Ntim have attended the Chartered Association of Business Schools training
 for Directors of Research and all senior and middle managers in the School have undertaken or
 are undertaking Chartered Manager training with the Chartered Management Institute, and
 maintain their status via continuing professional development. We are committed to lifelong
 learning as researchers.

 Work Load Allocation
 In the past we have adopted a ‘one size fits all’ Work Load Allocation (WLA) policy for staff
 excluding professors, but we recognise that different staff have different skills, and that a WLA
 (and accompanying expectations) which reflects this would enable us to more effectively realise
 our research (and enterprise) ambitions. As a consequence, we have developed and
 implemented a revised WLA which rewards research activity and supports PhD and ECR
 development. The new WLA was implemented in the 2020/21 academic year. For example, (out
 of a 1550 hours per annum workload) staff undertaking a PhD receive 300 hours (in addition to
 155 hours for scholarship) for their studies. An ECR in their first-year post PhD graduation
 receives 400 hours and in year 2, 300 hours (both in addition to 155 hours for scholarship). Staff
 categorised as established senior researchers, receive up to 620 hours. These allocations have
 been preserved even in the post-Covid environment, demonstrating our commitment to research
 and setting the tone for further research achievement as we move into the new REF period.
 Research, particularly impactful research, is key to our mission and vision. Thus, targets relating
 to publications (2* and 3*), citations, impact, publications with key partners (international and
 end user), and developing research grant projects which align with our vision, will determine
 research WLA for staff going forward.

 Rewarding Research Excellence
 We have a research incentive scheme (‘Points Means Pounds’ – PMP) whereby staff receive
 funds into research accounts upon publication of papers. In this REF period we have spent
 £265,125 on PMP which is a positive message for staff and a tangible reward for their research
 endeavours. PMP funds have helped in, for example, providing specialist equipment for

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers, purchasing consumer panel respondents for experiments and surveys, as well as
 financing research trips and collaborations. We have expanded and amended PMP throughout
 the period to include R&E funding applications and to provide greater incentive to publish higher
 quality internationally excellent and world leading research outputs.

 As well as supporting staff with the publication incentive scheme (PMP), we provide a relatively
 generous annual conference allowance of £2,500 for each member of staff to enable them to
 attend and present at internationally renowned conferences. We have maintained this allowance
 throughout the current REF period including post-Covid. Conference attendance of all staff,
 including part time colleagues as well as those with caring or other responsibilities, is monitored
 though the risk assessment process completed by all staff when travelling. The financial burden
 associated with travel, particularly for staff in more difficult financial positions, such as single
 parents, is supported through the School booking conferences and accommodation in advance
 and individuals see this as a very positive measure.

 HBS Research Conference
 HBS holds a three-day internal research conference each year. This event functions as a full
 conference with parallel and plenary sessions, research workshops, external speakers and
 prizes for the best and most innovative papers. We aim to introduce new ideas each year to
 stimulate creativity in research. For example, the 2020 conference featured a PGR Pecha Kucha
 competition and students were also invited to act as chairs for the parallel sessions. ECRs also
 benefit from the Research Conference as it provides a safe space for presentation of initial ideas
 and research development as well as research education, for example the panel of journal
 editors that formed a plenary session at the 2020 event. These events have led to some very
 interesting discussions and facilitated interdisciplinary collaborations. The research
 conference takes place outside of the teaching period and all staff are expected to participate. It
 provides an opportunity for staff to receive feedback on their work and for PGRs to be further
 integrated into the research culture of the School. In addition to the Research Conference,
 Research Centres provide a monthly seminar series, which comprises a variety of internal and
 external guest speakers. Each Centre takes turns to provide a seminar that is educational for
 staff and PGR students across the School.

 Staff Well-being
 There is increasing recognition of the importance of well-being in the work place and in
 particular, pressures arising from the move to becoming a research-focused institution. This has
 created difficulties for staff being able to dedicate sufficient time to research whilst fulfilling their
 teaching and administrative responsibilities. HBS has responded to this by implementing a
 revised WLA model in 2020 which recognises the importance of research and an appropriate
 balance alongside teaching responsibilities. The University has ambitious research targets within
 its 2025 strategy map and HBS is committed to ensuring staff well-being throughout this
 process. As a consequence, a more structured and embedded approach has been implemented
 and Quality of Working Life (QoWL) is a standing item on the HBL Senior Leadership Team
 meeting agenda. The HBS Athena Swan Bronze action plan (see below) also plays an important
 contribution alongside the QoWL issues with regard to staff well-being.

 Postgraduate Research Student Programme
 HBS has graduated 145 PhD and 10 DBA students in the period. Developing and nurturing
 postgraduate students is an HBS objective that aligns with the University Research Strategy and

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we aim to provide an inclusive and enabling environment to enrich the PGR student experience.
 An Action Plan, responding to PRES 2019 feedback, has been developed and is overseen by
 the Director of Graduate Education.

 We aim to bring together expert staff in order to attract capable and motivated PGR candidates
 from around the world and to facilitate high quality research on topics of interest to our
 applicants. During the REF period, HBS has seen an increase in PGR numbers, in part
 facilitated by the Vice Chancellor’s Fee waiver scheme that encourages Masters students
 achieving distinctions and undergraduate students achieving first class degrees to qualify for a
 fee waiver for PGR study. There has been a learning experience related to this project and
 bursary schemes are being enhanced. In future, awards will be more competitive, therefore
 leading us to recruit the best possible students, which in turn will assist HBS in improving
 research culture and achieving mission and vision. A clear objective for the next REF period is to
 increase the number of good quality publications generated from our doctoral students. The
 recent developments in the DBA programme (see below) provide an opportunity to grow this
 programme with the objective of engaging more widely with industry and improving our number
 of outputs with end users. We currently have 16 students at various stages of their DBA studies
 and a further 4 studying for a Doctor of Enterprise (EntD).

 Student Support
 We are implementing a number of improvements to the PGR programme including streamlining
 our processes and strengthening our methods training as well as graduate training overall. We
 aim to deliver effective and timely supervisory inputs and support, alongside efficient
 management of the PGR lifecycle by providing appropriate administrative support. By working
 closely with our Research Centres and spanning a range of areas including consumer behaviour
 and branding, risk analysis and behavioural research, sustainability, banking, finance and
 economics, we wish to showcase areas of strength which can help facilitate exciting research
 projects to postgraduate researchers. We aim to provide a dynamic environment for PGRs by
 providing regular opportunities for skills development and participation in a range of research
 activities including the HBS annual conference, monthly PGR focused research events
 organised by individual subject areas, research seminars and events aimed at skills
 development. We strongly believe that subject specific, technical skills are essential for
 producing innovative research, and we PGR cohorts are trained in this important area. We also
 aim to foster a strong and inclusive research culture whereby postgraduate research students
 are an integral part of the research community and can participate fully in research activities and
 contribute to a higher quantum of research outputs targeted at high quality peer reviewed
 journals. We regard our PGRs as current and future research colleagues and aim to equip them
 with appropriate discipline, social and technical skills to help them develop into strong
 professionals in their future careers.

 Training
 Support mechanisms for the training and supervision of PGR students are mapped to the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. HBS participates in the University policy of PGR
 Supervisor training, whereby all supervisors commit to attending training every 3 years as a
 minimum. We are also developing a more specific HBS supervisor-training programme with the
 aim of encouraging supervisory best practice within the School and will feature in interactive
 sessions during the Research Conference and mid-year Research Day.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A number of measures are in place to facilitate and support integration of our PGR community
 into the wider academic community - initially via their training and supervision and subsequently
 through the activities of the Research Centres. In addition, the University provides broader
 careers advice for PGR students via the Graduate School website.

 The Research Centre seminar programmes provide a critical but supportive environment to
 allow PGRs to present research papers and to extend their abilities and competencies in
 academic writing and presenting to expert and lay audiences. Feedback in the seminars enables
 improvement of papers and builds the required confidence to present at external conferences,
 for which HBS provides financial support. Over the period, HBS has allocated over £135k to
 support conference attendance for PGRs. All conference fees and accommodation are booked
 by the school in advance to ensure students do not experience financial difficulties.

 We have continued to support our PGR community during the pandemic. PGR training sessions
 and workshops have been delivered online rather than face-to-face, covering a wide range of
 topics, including Postgraduate Funding: Considering the Alternatives; Developing and Styling
 Your Academic Writing, amongst others. The central Researcher Environment Team has hosted
 weekly PGR catch-ups – an informal discussion of a topic relevant to postgraduate research.
 The Library has remained open, for the most part, and continued to provide PGRs with access to
 a wealth of physical and online resources, in addition to research support and training, in areas
 such as open access; research data management; citations and bibliometrics; and use of
 EndNote. Supervisory and PSS support has continued online.

 DBA taught programmes
 We have recently revalidated the programme of research training for our doctoral students and
 for staff. All academic staff are invited to attend modules, further enhancing the research
 environment, and facilitating CPD and providing greater opportunities for interaction between
 staff and PGRs and enhancing the quality of student supervision. The DBA was revalidated in
 Spring 2020 with the intention of offering a first-class research experience for professionals
 wanting to address specific challenges in their organisations. The focus is very much on applied
 problem-solving so that the student can, through their research, identify and evaluate innovative
 solutions to challenges in their workplaces or in an economic sector.

 The new provision offers four taught modules in the first two years of study. Managing Literature
 introduces researchers to the technologies, structures and skills required to generate a well-
 structured and well-debated literature review. The Research Methods module showcases
 examples of traditional and contemporary quantitative and qualitative methodologies and
 requires students to undertake a practical data collection exercise to explore the potential of a
 particular approach for their specific challenge. Assignments contribute to the final thesis and
 provide the scaffolding for the third module, The Research Proposal, which requires students to
 articulate their plans and structure for the research element of the programme. The fourth
 module, Applied Research, has been designed to encourage students to reflect on the potential
 impact of their research on themselves, as professionals and in their workplace. This module
 helps DBA students craft their compulsory personal reflection and impact statement (PRIS) and
 together these are benchmarked to the CMI Level 8 award, allowing successful DBA candidates
 to also be made Chartered members of the CMI. The University is the first in the UK to offer this.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The new taught provision for the DBA presents an opportunity to improve the rigour of training
 for PhD students. PhD students must now undertake and pass (by Progression 2) the Managing
 Literature Module and the Research Methods module. Programmes are delivered in week-long
 blocks enabling all researchers to attend, regardless of their part-time or full-time status, or their
 geographical location. PhDs will study alongside DBA students enabling a cross fertilisation of
 ideas and enable PhD students to more fully understand the importance of impact.

 The design and delivery of the taught modules will enable greater numbers of candidates to
 access the programme. HBS is developing a marketing strategy with a global reach and strong
 connections to businesses. Within two years, HBS anticipates two yearly cohorts of between 15
 and 20 DBA students from diverse geographical locations and business contexts. These will
 drive greater business engagement for the School as well as supporting the development of
 impactful research.

 HBS has developed a PGR teaching policy that allows interested individuals to develop their
 future teaching careers and become Associate Lecturers. PGR students are part of the
 University Personal and Academic Tutoring Scheme, a personal tutor system providing a named
 academic who supports them through their studies. Central TAPP training programmes are also
 offered for students wishing to teach.

 As a member of the Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative (NARTI), our PGRs and
 ECRs benefit from access to additional specialist research training, cross-regional events and
 networks. The HBS Learning Innovation and Development Centre also provides a package of
 support for our PGR students.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)
 The UoA17 Equality Impact Assessment shows a 60:40 male: female distribution of staff
 submitted; the diversity of our academic staff is indicated by less than half of the staff being
 within the “White British” category. In 2020, HBS achieved the Athena Swan Bronze Award and
 the application identified areas of focus relating to the inclusivity and diversity agenda with a
 detailed action plan developed. Two work packages have been created to address EDI issues
 amongst staff overlapping with themes emerging from the QoWL survey. The work packages
 are:

       School culture – Chaired by the Dean

       Appraisal and career progression (Academic) – Chaired by HoD Logistics Marketing
        Hospitality and Analytics

 The Athena Swan self-assessment process identified a significant imbalance (male dominated)
 in research leadership in the School. As a result, Research Centres have been restructured into
 clusters, providing a broader leadership structure, and creating a more balanced representation.
 In addition, more women have been appointed in the last 12 months to roles such as SGL (R&E)
 and Research Centre Director.

 In the student context, HBS has formed a Student Experience work package under the Athena
 Swan umbrella to examine EDI issues across all student levels. Four work packages have been
 established with the last two being most pertinent to the PGR context:


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Developing accessible learning materials
       Diversity in the curriculum
       Pastoral support
       Sense of belonging

 Staff returning from long-term leave can attend conferences without the necessity of presenting
 a paper to help them reintegrate into their subject area. Flexible working requests are
 considered on an individual basis and phased return to work is available after, for example,
 longer periods of sickness absence. Keeping-in-touch days facilitate staff development and
 research engagement during long-term absence e.g. maternity leave.

 Our Athena Swan self-assessment process has highlighted both good practice and areas for
 development. The good practice includes our annual three-day HBS Research Conference that
 brings in external speakers and features panel sessions (e.g. meet the editors; making grant
 applications etc.) that are particularly beneficial to those with caring responsibilities who are
 often unable to attend external events. This links to our track record of bringing in prestigious
 external events that allows staff with caring responsibilities to grow their research networks
 without the need for extensive travel.

 Output selection for the REF followed the principles set out in the University Code of Practice.
 Following an Equality Impact Assessment analysis, the characteristic of most significance for the
 UoA was gender with a 60:40 male:female distribution. In comparison, the output profile was
 68:32 male:female and a review of possible additional outputs from female members of staff was
 carried out. However, the strategic fit of these was not strong (a Code of Practice criterion) and
 the EDI output profile remains the same.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 Over the period, a total of £1.642m research income was secured by the UoA. The funding
 profile of this income (REF 4b) clearly demonstrates the HBS strategy to conduct applied
 research with end users and beneficiaries with sources including UK Government Bodies, local
 authorities, hospitals etc. (52%), charities (23%), industry (12%) and our EU income represented
 11% of the total. The research focus of HBS is to deliver impactful research and this profile
 supports that strategy. In addition to the research income, enterprise income has been secured
 to deliver projects which are closer to market or proprietary in nature. Key research projects
 secured during the period include:

       Wood secured £637k of grant income in collaboration with Ethiopian NGOs and
        researchers to achieve sustainable natural resource management, including building
        sustainable livelihoods and co-creating value chains to support income generation
        through the management of community forests (see ICS). In 2018, a second stage
        Darwin award (£374,420) was secured to continue this research.
       Gregory won a British Council Newton Fund Institutional Links Grant (~£100k) to work
        with Universitas Atma Jaya Yogyakarta, on an Indonesian Government strategic priority,
        the Indonesian energy self-sufficient villages’ project. This researched the strategic
        communication and community engagement dimensions of transitioning rural
        communities towards renewable energy with significant implications for the way the
        Indonesian Government approaches other large infrastructure projects. The project is a
        model of good practice of knowledge exchange (British Council) and has been chosen as
        the ideal case for their science journalism workshop for Indonesian journalists in 2017.

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        The principal Indonesian researcher has been appointed as a member of the UKRI
        international development peer review college, one of only five Indonesian
        representatives and the only woman. She reviews UKRI overseas development
        assistance funding opportunities, particularly those under the Global Challenges
        Research Fund (GCRF).
       Bamford, Bamford and Dani have completed 4 KTPs worth £490k with companies
        including; AC/DC LED Ltd., Reliance Precision Ltd., LCF Law Ltd. and Deluxe Beds Ltd.

 In addition, HBS has generated almost £1m in Enterprise income over the period including for
 example a consultancy project (£100k) with Kirklees Council to deliver a business support
 programme on behalf of the Leeds City Region (2020-2022). The programme aims to inspire
 potential high growth SMEs. Nicholson is PI and delivering the Strategic Management aspects
 of the project.

 HBS research has also benefitted from internal funding and in 2016 a School Research Fund
 was established to provide small grants to pump-prime projects that could lead to larger external
 funding opportunities. Winners have gone on to apply for larger external awards e.g. Nikitas,
 Bamford. HBS has also received significant QR GCRF funding (£150k) to support work in
 Overseas Developing Countries (Wood) which has led to other significant bids being submitted.

 Highlights of the impactful work delivered through the research and enterprise programmes is
 provided in section 4.

 Future income generation plans
 Our future plan is to continue to grow our research income from existing sources which facilitate
 end user engagement including UK Government, charities and industry. As HBS research
 intensity grows, we will target funders such as BEIS Research Councils and the British
 Academy, in particular schemes to support our growing cohort of ECRs as staff complete their
 PhDs.

 We will continue to participate in cross-University Sandpit events to secure seed-corn funding
 (~£15k/project). These awards will facilitate interdisciplinary collaborations with staff in other
 disciplines in order to encourage larger external bids to be developed. HBS has received
 approximately £68k during this period for projects including community forest management in
 Ethiopia (see above), refugees and music, block-chain and food supply chains, and artificial
 intelligence in professional services.

 To support income generation plans, a part-time Research Development Manager (RDM)
 assists with the identification of new funding streams, and the development of applications for
 external research funding to organisations such as Research Councils and Leverhulme. The
 RDM also provides support with grant application costings through the University’s finance
 system. In order to improve our success in both applying for and winning grants, we aim to
 appoint a dedicated RDM and bid writing mentor to support the growth of research income.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The three Centres and four departments that make up HBS (see section 1) provide ‘wrap-
 around’ support and guidance for all R&E activity in the School: the departments provide
 discipline-specific operational support, while Centres provide overarching strategic direction of
 research effort as well as cross-School support. This matrix-like approach facilitates a collegiate
 environment to research within the School for staff and PGRs.


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over the REF period, we have strengthened our professional services support (PSS) and in
 addition to the RDM highlighted above, we have appointed an ISO and Director of External
 Engagement who is a senior member of academic staff. The support provided includes
 exploring the impact potential of research, impact planning and monitoring, engaging with
 stakeholders and impact beneficiaries, as well as supporting funding applications and reporting.
 The ISO has assisted academics in all aspects of their Impact Case Study planning, data
 collection and narrative.

 As well as strengthening support for measuring and reporting impact, other elements of support
 have been developed. For example, a Business Development Team has been created which
 provides support on a range of areas such as employer engagement, funding opportunities, bid
 development and writing and partnership development. We have further developed the
 Academic and Research Support Team to provide additional services including transcription of
 interviews, proof reading, typing and arranging focus groups.

 The PSS team organises ‘Writing Retreats’ and we have trained academic staff to be facilitators
 to support all research writing activities including grant bids. We have a dedicated writing room
 where staff in shared offices can find a quiet space to conduct research work during the day. We
 have increased the physical space available for our PGRs following the opening of the Oastler
 Building in 2017. This has more than doubled our PGR desk space. Going forward and as our
 Research Centres develop further, we wish to tie the PGR space to our Research Centres to
 facilitate further engagement between PGRs, staff, visiting researchers and research activities.
 Each dedicated space will then act as a physical thematic hub.

 Evidence of the success of these infrastructure developments is clear by the more than doubling
 of credible Impact Cases since 2014, a fivefold increase in R&E spend and the exponential
 increase in academic staff submitted to REF2021 (UoA17).




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Consultation and partnership underpin the research activities of the HBS and collaboration with
 external academic partners, end-users and beneficiaries lies at the heart of the research we
 carry out. Research collaboration is encouraged at all career stages from postgraduate taught
 students through to senior professorial staff.

 International Collaboration

 In 2014, HBS was not ranked in either the Times Higher Education (THE) or QS world rankings.
 Due to the increased emphasis on teaching quality and research, HBS (Business and
 Economics) now features in both and is ranked in the top 201-250 within the THE world
 rankings.

 There has been a concerted effort to drive international partnerships within HBS and as part of
 the University’s internationalisation agenda, HBS is progressing various international
 collaborations. UoH recently provided seedcorn funding to encourage international collaboration
 notably with universities within the Top 300 (THE/QS) rankings in the world. HBS was successful
 in receiving nine awards to the value of £41,300 to be used over the next 3 years. The awards

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are supporting collaborations with the following institutions: Moscow (Lomonosov) University;
 Lund University (Sweden); King Abdulaziz University (Saudi Arabia); The Hong Kong
 Polytechnic University; Sun Yat-sen University, (China); Tecnologico de Monterrey (Mexico);
 Aalborg University, (Denmark); Griffith University, (Australia); Queensland University of
 Technology, (Australia); Nanjing University, P.R., (China). This funding will help to establish
 collaboration on research publications, potential visiting professorships and joint PhD
 supervisions.

 Publications also demonstrate our commitment to international and external partnership and
 over the REF period, 45.9% of HBS publications have been co-authored with researchers in
 other countries or regions.

 Our growing international reputation is also demonstrated through the Visiting positions held by
 HBS staff over the period – see below:



  Name           Date                Title                            Institutions

  Nikitas        July 2019           Invited Visiting Scholar         Chang an
                                     Research and Teaching            University’s Highway
                                     Purposes                         School, Xi’an China

                 May 2019            Invited visiting Expert for
                                     collaboration visit related to   The EC Joint
                                     the project Exploiting Clean     Research Centre of
                                     Energy for Sustainable           Ispra (VA), Italy
                                     Development
  Pettifer       October 2019        Honorary Professorial Fellow     Lancaster University
                                                                      Management School
  McEachern      1 July 2017 –       Visiting Professor               Salford Business
                 31 July 2021                                         School, University of
                                                                      Salford
  Roper          2016 onwards        Visiting Professor of            Turku School of
                                     Marketing                        Economics,
                                                                      University of Turku,
                                                                      Finland

  Szulc          May 2019            Visiting Professor               Gdansk University of
                                                                      Technology, Poland
                                                                      (the largest
                                                                      “Business School” in
                                                                      the Czech Republic)




                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Name         Date              Title                            Institutions

  Sharma       May 2020          Visiting Fellow                  Riskcenter-IREA
                                                                  Department of
                                                                  Econometrics,
                                                                  Universitat de
                                                                  Barcelona, Spain

               May 2019          Visiting Fellow                  REMIT Centre,
                                                                  Universidade
                                                                  Portucalense, Porto
                                                                  Portugal
               March 2018        Visiting Fellow                  Faculty of
                                                                  Economics,
               September 2016    Visiting Fellow                  University of
                                                                  Gdnask, Poland

               June 2016         Visiting Fellow                  Federal
                                                                  Technological
                                                                  University of
                                                                  Parana, Curitiba
                                                                  Brazil
                                                                  Tallinn University of
                                                                  Technology, Estonia

  Anchor       September 2013-   Visiting Professor, Faculty of   Technical University
               August 2014       Economics                        of Liberec, Czech
                                                                  Republic

               June 2011         Visiting Professor, Faculty of   Technical University
               onwards           Economics                        of Ostrava. Czech
                                                                  Republic
  Piga         2016              Visiting Scientist Programme     University of Cagliari

  Haloub       December 2019     Visiting Professor for KAU       King Abdul Aziz
               onwards                                            University, Saudi
                                                                  Arabia
  Ozkan        2015 - 2018       Visiting Professor               EGADE Business
                                                                  School, Tecnologico
                                                                  de Monterrey,
                                                                  Mexico

  Gregory      2014 ongoing      Visiting Professor               University of
                                                                  Navarra, Spain

               2014 ongoing      Adjunct Professor                RMIT, Melbourne,
                                                                  Australia



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Name          Date                Title                           Institutions

  Winterton     2018                Visiting Professor              University of
                                                                    Auckland Business
                                                                    School, New
                                                                    Zealand

                2013 – 2016         Visiting Professor              Faculty of Social
                                                                    Sciences, Ljubljana
                                                                    University

                2009 onwards        Visiting Professor              Centre for
                                                                    Vocational
                                                                    Education and
                                                                    Research, Vytautus,
                                                                    Magnus University,
                                                                    Kaunas, Lithuania



  Kusev         2014                Visiting Professor              The University of
                                                                    Warsaw

  Nasir         August 2019         Visiting Research Fellow        School of Banking,
                                                                    University of
                                                                    Economics, HCMC,
                                                                    Vietnam

  Wood          2016                Panel Member – CIMO             International
                                    (Finnish Government)            University Research
                                                                    Collaboration
                                                                    Funding Programme
                2014 - 2019         Technical Advisory Panel,
                                    Self -Help Africa               Commonwealth
                                                                    Fellowships
                                                                    Commission, UK
                                                                    Ireland

 In addition, HBS has hosted numerous visiting researchers over the period, e.g. Professor
 Tommaso Agasisti of Politecnico Milano visited in November 2015 and subsequently co-
 authored a book with Johnes (Handbook of Contemporary Education Economics). This visit
 coincided with a 3-month visit by PhD student (Laura Lopez Torres) working with Johnes from
 the University of Barcelona and now at University of Alcala.

 Conferences and conference organisation
 Senior staff are involved in International conference organising committees. For example, Roper
 has been Chair of the Academy of Marketing’s special interest group in Brand, Identity and
 Corporate Reputation for 5 years during the period. During this time, he has played a significant
 role in organising the annual Global Brand Conference at the University of Turku, Finland in
 2015; at University of Bradford in 2016; at Linnaeus University, Sweden in 2017; at Northumbria

                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University in 2018; at HWR University, Berlin in 2019 and at Sheffield Hallam University in 2020.
 Johnes is a member of the organising committee of the European Workshop on Efficiency and
 Productivity Analysis taking place in 2022; and has been an organising committee member for
 the Workshop on Efficiency in Education in London, 2014; in Hungary, 2017; in Huddersfield,
 2018 and in Barcelona 2019.

 HBS has consistently supported academics to attend external conferences to present their own
 work as well as to increase their personal research networks. Over this REF period, we have
 committed approaching £1m on conference attendance and associated expenses.

 Staff are also supported in bringing external research events to the School. For example HBS
 has hosted prestigious events including;
      6th International Workshop: Efficiency in Education, Health and Public Services
         (September 2018)
      Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative (NARTI) Conference (July 2019)
      European Academy of Management (EURAM) Early Career Workshop (March 2020).
      Logistics Research Network Conference (September 2014), ~150 delegates, national
         and international.
      Annual Northern Seminar of ACoRP, the Association of Community Rail Partnerships,
         (July 2018), ~50 delegates including senior DfT officials.
      Symposium ‘Sharing the Burden of Supermarket Food Waste: Towards Sustainability
         and a Circular Economy? (June 2018) attended by academics and practitioners from
         around Europe.

 We have been selected to host the Academy of Marketing Conference and are planning to receive
 400 delegates to the largest UK based international Marketing conference in July 2022.

 Contribution to the discipline

 Editorial Boards
 Staff within the School hold editorial board positions including: Associate Editor at Industrial
 Marketing Management (Nicholson); Associate Editor at Education and Training (Winterton);
 Associate Editor European Journal of Finance (Kara); Associate Editor at Frontiers in
 Psychology (Kusev); Associate Editor at Eurasian Business Review (Lau); Associate Editor at
 Sustainable Development (Meaton); Editor-in-Chief at Journal of Communications Management
 (Gregory). In addition many staff hold editorial board memberships and have been guest editors
 for the following international journals: European Journal of Marketing; Journal of Marketing
 Management; Journal of Operational Research Society; Journal of Transport Geography; Public
 Money and Management; Industrial Marketing Management; Marketing Theory; Journal of
 Business Research; Internet Research; Journal of Brand Management; Business Ethics: A
 European Review; Employee Relations; European Journal of Training and Development;
 Education and Training; Frontiers in Psychology; Public Relations Review; Journal of
 Communication Management; International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Innovation; Applied
 Accounting Research.

 Numerous HBS staff have reviewed for international journals throughout the period.

 Keynote Lectures
 Over the REF period, HBS staff have delivered >40 Keynote addresses at international and
 national meetings examples of which are highlighted below:

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  Name          Date                 Title
  Nikitas       October 2019         Connected and Autonomous Vehicles: A New
                                     Exciting World for Artificial Intelligence and Smart
                                     Mobility.

                                     10th Special Hellenic Festival of Industrial
                                     Computer Science, International Hellenic
                                     University, Kavala, Greece

  Sharma         June 2017           Invited Keynote speaker:
                                     ‘Bloomberg in Support of University Economics and
                                     Finance Teaching’
                                     Bloomberg HQ, London

                 June 2016           External Speaker Bloomberg Education
                                     Symposium ‘Using Bloomberg in Support of
                                     Teaching Quantitative Methods. Bloomberg Inc.
                                     London

                August 2017          Keynote Speaker: ‘Live football and Tourism
                                     Expenditure: Match Attendance Effects in the UK’
                                     FLAME University, Pune, India
  Lever         Sept 2020            Supporting a resilient food system and why this is
                                     important. Public Health England Webinar

                Nov 2018             Creating a sustainable local food strategy –
                                     Responding to Covid planning for the future. BVA
                                     Congress, ExCel, London

                June 2018            Debating Religious Slaughter Over 200 Years:
                                     From Spatial Concealment to Social Controversy?
                                     Institute of Religions, Spiritualities, Cultures,
                                     Societies (RSCS), Louvain (UCL), Belgium

                                     Consuming Halal in the Age of Globalised Mass
                                     Production: Compound Practice-Knowing What to
                                     East, Conference: Universite Catholique de
                                     Louvain (UCL), Belgium

  Kara          May 2018             Keynote Address: Institute of Banking & Money
                                     Conference.
                                     Nanjing Audit University, China




                                                                                        Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Name          Date                 Title
  Roper         October 2015         “The multi-layered meanings of place and the
                                     difficulties of place branding”
                                     25th Nordic Symposium and Hospitality Research,
                                     Turku, Finland

                                     ‘A few thoughts on Corporate Branding’, Business
                October 2015         Breakfast meeting of invited Finnish managers,
                                     Turku, Finland.

                October 2014         Marketing and the consumer in the circular
                                     economy – Plenary Speaker
                                     Clean Europe Network; Involving Business in Litter
                                     Prevention, University of Bradford.

                October 2014         “Quantitative Assessment of the Litter Effect on
                                     Brands” – Plenary address
                                     Brussels, Belgium

  Bettany       September 2017       Australia National University, Canberra, Australia

  Wood          May 2019             ‘Twenty years of Huddersfield University Research
                                     in South-west Ethopia’ – Open Address at
                                     launching meeting of Jimma University

                August 2018          ‘Implementing a socio-ecological landscape
                                     approach for wetland management experiences
                                     with sustainable/green infrastructure from East and
                                     Southern Africa’. Keynote Address session on
                                     Natural Infrastructure, World Water Week.

                March 2018           ‘Action research in the honey forests of south-west
                                     Ethiopia’ Keynote Address at Symposium on
                                     Beekeeping and Sustainable Development Goals,
                                     University of Reading.

                2018
                                     ‘Sustainable management of wetland agriculture in
                                     sub-Saharan Africa and the sustainable
                                     development goals’. Keynote Address: University
                                     of Bonn and University of Makerere.

                February 2018
                                     Summer School on ‘Sustainability in the Food-
                                     Water-Ecosystem Nexus in sub-Saharan Africa in
                                     support of the Sustainable Development Goals’
                                     University Kampala, Uganda


                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Name          Date                 Title
  Johnes        December 2017        ‘Mergers in higher education: Implications of
                                     efficiency’ Workshop on Education Economics.
                                     TIER, Maastricht University, Netherlands

                March 2018           ‘Funding of higher education: Challenges of the 21st
                                     century – UK and Anglo-Saxon countries’ Keynote;
                                     Workshop on Public Financing of Catalan
                                     Universities I, University of Barcelona

                June 2017            ‘University rankings: What do they really show?
                                     Keynote: Meeting of the Economics of Education
                                     Association, Murcia, Spain

                January 2017         ‘Measuring efficiency convergence in Islamic and
                                     Conventional banks: Cross-country evidence’
                                     Productivity Centre, Lancaster University
                                     Management School.

                November 2016        ‘Performance indicators and rankings in higher
                                     education’, Valuing Higher Education: An
                                     appreciation of the work of Gareth Williams’.
                                     Centre for Higher Education Studies, Institute of
                                     Education, University College London

                October 2015         ‘Cost and efficiency in English higher education: An
                                     analysis using latent class stochastic frontier
                                     models’, 5th Workshop on Efficiency and
                                     Productivity Analysis.
                                     Catholic University Porto, Portugal

                September 2014       ‘University mergers in England: Effects on
                                     efficiency’ Efficiency in Education Workshop,
                                     Lancaster University Management School, The
                                     Work Foundation, London.



  Nasir         August 2020          ‘Anchoring Inflation Expectations in the Face of Oil
                                     Shocks’ The International Conference on Business
                                     and Finance 2020, HCMC, Vietnam

                April 2019           ‘Contribution of Natural Resources in Driving
                                     Energy Demand and Carbon Emissions in the
                                     USA: Education as a Cure of Carbon Curse’,
                                     The ENSCON Conference: International
                                     Conference of Energy, Economy and Security,
                                     Istanbul, Turkey


                                                                                         Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Name          Date                 Title
  Gregory       June 2019            ‘The story of IHPRC from 2009-2019’, Keynote
                                     Plenary Panel, International History of Public
                                     Relations conference, Bournemouth.

                May 2019             ‘The dark side of AI’. University of Stirling Post
                                     graduate Research Conference, Opening Keynote,
                                     University of Stirling, Scotland

                March 2019           ‘A global capability framework’. Indonesian
                                     academic forum, Opening Keynote, Hotel Ibis,
                                     Bandung, Indonesia

                March 2018           ‘PR, I and the cyber revolution: Dialogue as we
                                     don’t know it’. Asia-Pacific Public Relations
                                     Research and Education Network, 2nd International
                                     Research Roundtable, Keynote: Atma Jaya,
                                     Indonesia Catholic University of Indonesia, Jakarta

                July 2017            ‘Externalities, agency and ethics in big data
                                     transactions: starting the debate. Critical
                                     intersections: communication, public relations and
                                     beyond in a time of convergence’. International
                                     Critical PR Conference, Barcelona, Spain

                November 2016        ‘Global Capabilities in a strategic profession.
                                     iComicos 2016, Questioning locality: community
                                     movement, global challenges’, Opening Keynote,
                                     Universitas Atma Jaya Yogyakarta, Indonesia

                July 2016            ‘Building Exceptional Government
                                     Communications: the UK perspective…and
                                     reflections on BREXIT.’ IV ACOP International
                                     Meeting, ‘New communication: New politics?
                                     Keynote address, Bilbao, Spain

                November 2015        ‘Leadership: the final frontier’. Institute for Public
                                     Relations Research Symposium. Keynote address,
                                     Yale Club, New York, USA

                May 2015             ‘Sustainability and public relations. Communicating
                                     sustainability’: Leadership, Advocacy & Opening
                                     Keynote. RMIT, Melbourne, Australia

                March 2014           ‘Building Trust from the inside – the Role of Public
                                     Relations in ‘Authentic’ Tourist Organisations’.
                                     Keynote address, Belgrade International Tourism
                                     Conference, Belgrade, Serbia

                                                                                        Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 External PhD examinations
 15 HBS staff have conducted 29 external examinations in the UK as well as overseas in
 Australia, Czech Republic, Netherlands, Switzerland, Pakistan, Libya, Sweden and Ireland.
 Examinations were conducted at a wide range of universities including Manchester, Surrey,
 Loughborough, Strathclyde, Nottingham, Glasgow and Reading in the UK and Universite de
 Lausanne, Maastricht University, Linnaeus University, Griffith and the University of Queensland
 overseas.

 Contribution to Economy and Public Engagement
 Our commitment to impactful research takes prime position in our mission and vision and
 delivering both economic and social impact from research. HBS is fully committed to the
 principles of the Concordat for Public Engagement with Research and HBS encourages all
 researchers to consult with potential end users throughout the development and implementation
 of their research programmes. Staff and students have attended central impact training,
 enthusiastically participated in the EU Researchers’ Night (2017), and this has helped to embed
 an impact-focused research culture.

 Working with industry
 HBS has engages with industry in various ways including, collaborative R&D and consultancy. One
 of the most impactful engagement mechanisms is via Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and over the
 period staff have completed 4 KTP programmes, examples of some are described below:

 KTP 1 was with a lighting manufacturer to develop and embed and innovative management and
 business processes to enhance planning, design and execution of the company’s supply chain.
 The immediate outcomes of the programme were:
     Significant increases in turnover, growth, and profits, enhancing the impact of current
        services;
     Embedding of knowledge and understanding of advanced supply chain applications
        across the company and supply chain partners;
     Increased number of new customers, and expansion of existing contracts through
        improved capacity, effectiveness and efficiency;
     Retention of and increase in market leadership through providing solutions and services
        not offered by competitors.

 KTP 2 was a project with a precision engineering company to ensure it remained competitive by
 improving company speed, flexibility and performance. Lean and agile manufacturing
 techniques, embedded within a continuous improvement (CI) strategy were introduced. The
 outcomes of the partnership were:
      Development and embedding of the CI mind-set and its processes throughout the
        company to reach business plan objectives;
      Carrying out efficiency improvement projects and creating a culture to empower the
        workforce and implement change - 6% of the workforce is now able to lead on small
        improvement projects, as part of the Continuous Improvement team, and 55% have been
        involved in a project.

 KTP 3 has recently concluded with a bed manufacturer to improve operational agility through the
 application of SCRUM (an agile process management framework, first used in software
 development), along with value optimisation and process improvement. Work is ongoing
 following the completion of the KTP and improvements in manufacturing, sales order and
 product development processes continue to be developed and embedded (see Impact Cases).


                                                                                          Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Benefits already experienced by the company include:
     Increased networking outside traditional company and industry contacts
     Increased capacity to deliver growth targets

 Student participation with external organisations
 In addition to our doctoral programmes, we also proactively introduce our MSc and MBA students
 to carry out research with local and regional organisations through their involvement in knowledge
 exchange activities. Selected projects are assessed by a pracademic who leads the consultancy
 programme and aims to provide guidance to SMEs and local businesses to deliver economic and
 societal benefits as well as experience for our students. This route forms a source of external
 engagement, which has added a value to teaching practices and research at HBS, and has
 benefited the School by incorporating learning from knowledge exchange and research practices.
 Over the past five years 24 research consultancy projects with nine clients have been delivered
 for public and private sector organisations e.g. Calderdale and Huddersfield NHS Foundation
 Trust (CHFT), Kirklees Council, Calderdale Council, Deluxe Beds Ltd, Electroparts Ltd.
 Collaborations with HBS and these organisations will open up potential for future research and
 impact.

 Influencing Policy
 In addition to policy influences described in our impact case studies, several staff have been
 involved in developing or forming policy, including:
       Johnes was invited to sit on a working group to produce the 2018 report Harnessing
         Educational Research, The Royal Society and British Academy;
       Mceachern presented Food Poverty research to the Social Justice Unit, Scottish
         Government in June 2019;
       Roper was invited as an Independent Expert onto the Litter Strategy Advisory Group
         advising Defra and UK Government on the development and content of the National
         Litter Strategy for England (2016-2018) and options for delivery.
       Piga’s work on house prices was pump-primed by the Office for National Statistics
       Haloub’s Leverhulme-funded research is supporting economic migrants and refugees to
         use their skills and experiences in a new context within the UK contributing to the UK
         national and local economy. Arabic speaking academics inspire refugees to become
         more resilient and engaged in UK society. Work has been carried out with Local
         Authorities around Huddersfield to develop a structural approach for new refugees and
         prepare them to develop a new social status in the UK. Outcomes of the project will be
         delivered by April’21. To date, three phased skill-workshops for Syrian refugees have
         been delivered in Arabic in collaboration with experienced entrepreneurs and scholars
         from the field.
       Kara has studied European securitization markets since 2010 with the researchers of the
         European Central Bank (ECB). ECB is the top authority in the Euro area to conduct
         monetary policy, and regulate banks and financial markets. Kara’s work has been
         published in the ECB Working Paper Series and ECB Research bulletin. These
         publications have global audiences including many central bank policy makers and
         practitioners. Specific outputs in this REF period include: “Securitization and credit
         quality”, 2017, ECB Working Paper No: 2009. In November 2016, the president of ECB,
         Mario Draghi (listed as the 11th most powerful person in the World by Forbes Magazine
         in 2016) was informed about the findings of Kara’s research. Kara’s paper became the
         basis of a high-level policy briefing for Draghi before his talk in the European Parliament
         discussing the benefits of securitization for European financial markets - details of
         Draghi’s speech are available online.
       From 2014-2016, Kusev has been working with The Department for Work and Pension
         (DWP) on behavioural change and well-being initiatives. He provided consultancy to
         DWP, regarding the ‘Strategy Ageing Society and State Pensions’ initiative.


                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Public Engagement
 We are encouraging staff to make greater use of social media to publicise their research work
 and this also provides the opportunity to interact with the wider public. Twitter for example is a
 popular platform for staff to disseminate their research (e.g Nikitas has shared his research on
 cyber security and privacy of connected and autonomous vehicles). LinkedIn is also favoured by
 staff in providing a brief summary of latest research (e.g. Johnes has shared her latest research
 on efficiency in Indian universities). We have further publicised our research work in popular
 outlets such as The Conversation and Research Fortnight. As part of the2018 HBS Professional
 Services Support restructure, a marketing and external engagement team was established to
 liaise with businesses and organisations to gauge their support requirements and disseminate
 our research.

 Media Engagement
 HBS staff have used numerous media channels to promote their research to the wider public,
 examples include:
     Television: BBC TV Don’t mess with me; Inside Out; Channel 4; Aljazeerah Arabic; Roya
       TV (Jordan)
     Radio: BBC Radio 4; BBC Radio Leeds; BBC Radio Berkshire; Radio Austria; Pulse
       Radio, Money Talks
     Newspapers: Financial Times; The Guardian; Daily Telegraph; Sydney Morning Herald;
       Brisbane Times; New Zealand Herald; Metro; Dhaka Tribune; Irish Examiner; Irish
       Times;
     Magazines: Fortune; Which; Times Higher Education; Newsweek; The Local
       Government Chronicle; Africa Business (International);
     News Websites: Business Insider; American Business News Daily; Yahoo News; The
       Asia Dialogue; The Age.com; TechAsia.com; Research Fortnight; and numerous pieces
       in The Conversation.

 Knowledge Sandwich/Kirklees Business Hub
 The Knowledge Sandwich/Kirklees Business Hub was established in 2018 as a monthly,
 informal knowledge-sharing forum whereby businesses are invited to attend a session delivered
 by an academic on a topic of interest, for example:

       Hope and Dreams: Craft Beer, Business and Authenticity
       The Circular Economy: Where do you stand?
       Sensory Underload: Tapping into all of your senses for creativity
       Project Management: A mindful approach
 The aim is to give businesses an opportunity to meet HBS staff and discuss matters of mutual
 interest, as well as find out more about what we offer. To date, over 600 people have attended
 meetings.

 Public events
 From November 2019 to November 2020 the School hosted a Leverhulme Visiting Professor –
 Martin Johanson of Uppsala University, Sweden, who delivered eight public lectures
 encompassing subjects including:

       Insidership and outsidership in international networks
       Speed and acceleration in firms’ international growth
       Strategies in business networks

                                                                                            Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Trends and traditions in internationalisation research
       Corona, unpredictability and foreign market entry
       Serendipitous opportunity and internationalisation
       Network and returnee entrepreneurs
       Effectuation and internationalisation

 Additional public events based upon research interests and collaborations have been hosted by
 HBS staff, including:

       The “Our Waste – The Future?” Conference, run in partnership with Environment
        Kirklees as part of the launch for the Kirklees Waste and Resource Network
        https://kwrnet.org.uk) was held at the University of Huddersfield on 4th December 2019.
        Around 50 people, including academics, policy makers, third sector organisations and
        community groups, attended.

       On July 17th, 2019, an engagement and impact event was held at the University of
        Huddersfield on Kosher and Halal Market Opportunities for British Business. With
        speakers from industry, certification bodies and policy makers, major corporate retailers,
        including Asda PLC and Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC, Meat Producer Associations
        and halal certification bodies, among others, attended the event.

 In addition to these events, HBS was a major contributor to the2016 and 2017 EU Researchers
 Night events hosted by the University. Over 3000 people attended these interdisciplinary events
 to showcase our research.

 The events and collaborations highlighted above demonstrate internally within the School, the
 wider university and externally, the HBS research culture and commitment to supporting wider
 society and communities through our research.




                                                                                           Page 30
