Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bournemouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 27 – English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 A. Context and Structure

 English research at Bournemouth is distinctive in its focus on contemporary literary cultures and
 markets and the relationship between literature and the media, responding to its positioning
 within a Faculty of Media and Communication. As such it provides a vital contribution to the field
 of English today, particularly in mapping out new areas of enquiry and interdisciplinary
 approaches to the latest technological innovations and providing world-leading research in
 emerging fields such as comic studies and the medical humanities.

 Research on language and literature has contributed significantly to the vitality of the research
 culture of the Faculty since the late 90s. Investment in English substantially increased with the
 development of an undergraduate degree in 2010, followed by the creation of new Masters’ level
 provision in English and Literary Media and Creative Writing and Publishing. Strategic use of
 Visiting Fellows and Professors has provided valuable mentorship in developing our research
 profile. From 2014-18 English was based in the School of Journalism, English and
 Communication. In 2019 a new department of Humanities and Law was created in the Faculty,
 resulting in the appointment of a new Professor of English (Cox) and facilitating closer links
 between researchers working across English, Politics and History in the areas of cultural
 heritage, the psychosocial and oral history. The new department also opens up new possibilities
 in terms of aligning and developing research in the emerging humanities (digital humanities;
 medical humanities; environmental humanities) and developing new collaborations with
 colleagues in law, particularly around intellectual copyright and AI.

 In 2014, 4 English FTE were submitted to the REF (UoA 36). Since 2014 we have seen a three-
 fold increase in staffing (13 FTE) and significant growth in the postgraduate community, ensuring
 the sustainability of English at Bournemouth for the long term. Bournemouth is submitting to
 UoA27 for the first time. The unit comprises a balance of senior, mid-career and early career
 researchers with a strong team ethos. Senior colleagues provide research leadership in their
 roles as Head of Department (Cox) and Head of Research Centre (Thomas), while leadership
 also includes input from mid-career researchers (Round as Deputy Head of Centre) and ECRs
 (Goodman and Mills).

 As a unit we have focused, in both the design and delivery of outputs and projects, and in the
 recruitment of new members of staff, on interrogating the boundaries of the discipline and
 developing research teams and projects that speak to its emergent concerns. Alongside this,
 considerable investment has been made in building on our long track record of public
 engagement activities to develop impactful research to enrich society.

 Main Research Strengths and Groupings

 All submitted staff are members of the Narrative Culture and Community Research Centre
 (NCCR) led by Thomas, which emerged from an informal research group initially set up in 2008
 to achieve Centre status as a result of a university-wide competitive process in 2019. Staff from
 English represent around 50% of the overall membership. The Centre’s strategy has been built
 around establishing interdisciplinary networks and developing high quality funded research,
 including projects funded by the AHRC and the Wellcome Trust.

 NCCR holds monthly research seminars and has hosted several international symposia on
 subjects including Digital Reading, Non-human Narratives and Location Based Storytelling.
 NCCR has established links with research groups and centres internationally, including the


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 European Narratology Network and the International Society for the Study of Narrative. NCCR is
 also a founder member of the British and Irish Narrative Association set up in 2019.
 NCCR approaches narrative as a way of structuring and understanding experience and as
 something that pervades all aspects of contemporary culture. The work of the Centre also
 engages with how narratives help define but are also shaped by different communities, both
 local and global, real and virtual. The Centre’s research includes work on autofiction, narrative
 psychology, health narratives, embodied narratives and narratives of nation. Centre members
 also employ narrative methods in their research, for example, Thomas’s use of digital storytelling
 in her AHRC and EPSRC projects, and Dix’s work on developing methodologies based on
 autofiction.

 The following represent key areas where we have identified existing strengths and the potential
 for future growth in terms of grant capture, research networks, interdisciplinarity and impact.

 i)    Digital Literary Cultures

 English at Bournemouth is at the forefront of exploring how literature engages with advances in
 technology and emerging trends in the creative industries. Initiated and hosted by Bournemouth,
 the annual New Media Writing Prize celebrates its tenth anniversary in 2020. The event
 showcases the latest innovations in interactive storytelling with entries from across the globe.
 Recent projects and funding bids being developed within the group include work on virtual reality
 and assistive technologies. Thomas and Round have led two AHRC funded projects on digital
 reading, the second of which led to the development of The Digital Reading Network (2013-15)
 based at Bournemouth, comprises 20+ leading international experts from multiple disciplines.
 Thomas secured further funding from the AHRC for a follow-on project called Reading on
 Screen in 2017, and in 2020 was awarded funding by the EPSRC under its Digital Innovation for
 Development in Africa strand, for the DRIVE (Digital Reading for Inclusivity, Versatility and
 Engagement) project, working with partners in Kenya.
 Research strengths in this area have also been developed through the appointment of visiting
 fellows and recruitment of PGRs. Sue Thomas, formerly Professor of Digital Media at De
 Montfort University, is a Visiting Fellow, and has provided mentorship to several colleagues as
 well as contributing regularly to research events and publications. Marianne Martens from Kent
 State University is a Visiting Fellow researching Young Adults and digital cultures. We currently
 have 3 PhD students working on digital literary cultures, including Allard who was successful in
 gaining a fully funded Faculty scholarship to work on digital poetry in 2017.

 ii)   Literary Media

 The term literary media defines the unit’s approach to research that addresses the
 interdependence of literature and the media increasingly apparent in this era of global late
 capitalism that has transformed literature both in terms of the kinds of texts produced but also
 more broadly with regards to how those texts are accessed, circulated and evaluated. Rather
 than focus on texts in isolation, literary media instead takes a sociological approach to examine
 how media ecosystems are shaped by a convergence of literary, visual, and material
 cultures. Key strengths in this area include Frost’s research on material book cultures and the
 economics of book retail, Cox’s research on tattoos and labyrinths, Thomas’s research on
 literature and social media and Murphy’s work on literary journalism. Round has published
 widely on comics and sequential art, is editor of the Journal of Comics Studies and was awarded
 the 2019 Broken Frontier award for the best book on comics. Round is also on the organising
 committee for the International Graphic Novel and Comics Conference held at Bournemouth in
 2018. Thomas and Round (with Astrid Ensslin from the University of Alberta) are the editors of a
 Companion to Literary Media to be published by Routledge in 2022 bringing together leading
 scholars from multiple disciplines and fields to further define and interrogate this emerging way
 of conceptualising the literary.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 iii)   Medical Humanities

 The recruitment of Goodman and Teo has introduced new research strengths and an emergent
 research grouping in the Medical Humanities. Goodman has received two bursary awards from
 the Wellcome Trust, focusing on alcohol, medicine and health in British India and was an AHRC
 /BBC New Generation Thinker and part of the New Generations in Medical Humanities
 programme at Durham University between 2015-16. Teo is a member of the International Health
 Humanities Network and has published and presented papers on robots in a healthcare context,
 and on dementia. Alberda’s PhD on graphic medicine draws on work in both the medical
 humanities and comics studies (she is supervised by Round and Goodman). Thomas and Pope
 are involved in developing cross faculty research projects aligning with the University’s Strategic
 Investment Areas, involving assistive and immersive technologies and health and wellbeing.

 iv)    Creative Writing and Practice-Led Research

 NCCR’s regular seminar series has hosted poetry readings, book launches and exhibitions of
 practice-led work and the Centre has also provided funding to support practice-led projects
 including Gyori’s Shelley’s Heart and Pope’s Genarrator. Cox is working with the interdisciplinary
 genre of film poetry in collaboration with practitioners and academics in the UK, Canada and
 Croatia. Mills, Masters, Gyori were involved in several events held in Bournemouth in 2018 to
 celebrate the 200th anniversary of the publication of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein. Four practice-
 led PhDs have been completed by students supervised by Thomas and Jacey since 2014.

 B. Research and Impact Strategy

 Our strategic aims as a new UoA are:
    i)      To provide a vibrant research culture for English staff through a regular programme of
            research events.
    ii)     To produce field-defining research of the highest quality.
    iii)    To build on our funding successes to develop productive and sustainable national
            and international project teams.
    iv)     To develop and expand postgraduate research in English.
    v)      To embed impact into our research activities and projects and identify future impact
            potential.
    vi)     To build partnerships and collaborations with stakeholders and policy makers so as to
            enhance the impact of our research internationally.

 Leadership and Mentoring

 Leadership and mentoring in research occur at University, Faculty and Department levels as well
 as externally. Leadership in research has been strengthened by the recruitment of a second
 Professor of English (Cox) as Head of Department for Humanities and Law. Cox has significant
 experience of managing research and subject leadership and has served as a member of the
 Executive Committee of University English (Deputy Vice-Chair 2016-18; Secretary 2017-18) and
 also hosted Subject Leaders Networking Events (2015-18).

 Internal promotion successes mean that over half of the unit’s staff are now at Principal Lecturer
 level or above. This means that several colleagues are involved in staff appraisals (Cox,
 Thomas, Dix) while Cox and Goodman as Head and Deputy Heads of Department have
 responsibility for workload planning and staff development.

 In 2019 the Department Research Leadership Team reviewed mentorship arrangements,
 confirming that all colleagues have a research mentor, and that mentorship is reflected in
 workloads. The Department has set up two research away days a year as well as writing retreats
 which give colleagues an opportunity to share grant and research tips as well as space to write.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have developed a culture around English research at Bournemouth that is both highly
 collegiate and collaborative, with colleagues regularly publishing and bidding together, as well as
 sharing networks and partners. This has been fostered both through our programme of seminars
 and events, but also through specific initiatives such as the creation of a database of research
 partners and workshops to develop funding bids.

 We provide strong support for ECRs both through our dedicated subject forum (led by Mills), and
 leadership of the BU-wide ECR Network (Goodman). English is also well represented on the
 university’s ECR funding panel (Goodman and Thomas) and BU Ethics Panel (Goodman). Many
 of the staff submitted have considerable experience as research leaders, and through a
 departmental mentorship scheme this experience is being passed on to less experienced
 colleagues. Mentoring has already proved valuable in helping researchers who have recently
 completed PhDs to start publishing (Henesy) and in providing support for colleagues developing
 funding bids.

 Growing the Research Base

 Our 160+ outputs during the assessment period include 19 monographs and 66 journal articles.
 Our strategy has been to develop a wide range of types of output, including practice-led
 research and creative writing, reflecting the distinctive variety of English we have created at
 Bournemouth with its strong links with the creative industries. However, we have also developed
 strategies to enhance the quality of our outputs, for example, providing funding for research
 assistants and transcription costs to enable Round to produce data rich and methodologically
 complex outputs for the monograph on the Misty comic, and also funding archival work informing
 Goodman’s monograph and articles on spy fiction and the links between colonialism and
 alcohol.

 A key strategy in developing English research has been to identify and consolidate areas of
 strength while also broadening our expertise through recruitment, staff development and
 interdisciplinary collaborations. Over the last ten years we have progressed to a position where
 our researchers have been at the forefront of the development of emerging fields at the
 intersection of multiple disciplines (Thomas with digital reading, Round with comic studies). The
 interdisciplinary focus in research is supported through funding, enabling colleagues to engage
 in networking events and to develop new skills and methods e.g. a workshop on developing
 databases for the humanities led by Round. Research events and funding at BU support cross-
 faculty collaborations with researchers from English developing projects with colleagues from the
 Ageing and Dementia Research Centre (Teo, Thomas), Centre for Seldom Heard Voices
 (Pope), Sports Science (Thomas, Pope), Psychology (Thomas), Tourism (Dix and Mills) and
 Computer Science (Gyori, Pope, Thomas). Examples of interdisciplinary research events
 include:
     i)       Liquid Modernities conference organised by Sam Goodman in 2019 drawing together
              researchers interested in exploring the intersection of drink, space and place within
              contemporary culture, media and society.
     ii)      BUVR dementia group organised by Thomas (2017-19) with input from computer
              animators, health professionals, psychologists and learning technologists.

 In addition to fostering interdisciplinary research, Centre and departmental QR budgets have
 been used to help grow practice-led research in English. This has led directly to funding
 successes (Gyori) and the development of strong links with industry partners in the field of new
 media narrative (including If:books, The Literary Platform, Byte the Book and Unicorn Training).

 To facilitate the growth in the PGR community we have been successful in applying to targeted
 Faculty studentship schemes, and in attracting students through international recruitment.
 English staff also supervise researchers on ProfD and EdD programmes at Bournemouth, as
 well as supervising PGRs from other subject areas on interdisciplinary teams.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The restructuring of departments and research Centres provides new opportunities for further
 expanding our research base. For example, the department’s Interdisciplinary Research
 Seminar series provides one forum where English researchers have been able to explore
 collaborations with colleagues from Politics, Law and History.

 Developing our Funding Portfolio

 Our strategy has been to build on successes with bidding to research councils (AHRC) and
 charities including the Wellcome Trust (Goodman) and we will continue to prioritise and target
 these funders. However, bids to the EU and EPSRC (Thomas), British Academy (Cox, Dix), Arts
 Council (Gyori) and Leverhulme Trust (Teo, Goodman) also demonstrate our ambition to
 develop larger bids and to explore new funding possibilities, particularly to develop our research
 internationally working with developing nations and to grow our PGR and PDR base. A strategic
 priority for the future is to increase the number of staff regularly submitting bids monitored
 through research plans and appraisal and supported by bespoke funding labs hosted by the
 department and by NCCR.

 Support for Open Research

 All submitted outputs comply with open access policies. Bournemouth University Research
 Online (BURO) – provides a green route for open access. Since 2017, Bournemouth University
 has had a digital repository for the storage and preservation of research data. This has been
 used by Thomas to comply with requirements for data produced as part of AHRC funded
 research and by Round for providing access to databases.

 Dix is deputy chair of the University outputs committee with responsibility for overseeing policy
 and funding for open access. Round, Dix and Teo have successfully applied for funding from the
 university to support gold access for journal publications. Goodman has received funding from
 the Wellcome Trust Open Access scheme for three articles.

 Round has made research in the form of databases and interviews freely available on a personal
 website. All data from Thomas’s AHRC funded projects are freely accessible from the project
 websites.

 Approach to and Support for Impact

 The Faculty of Media and Communication has a strong record of links with industry and the
 public sector and this is reflected in the activities of colleagues working in English. The primary
 approach of the unit in developing the impact of our work has been to situate excellent research
 in a range of contexts that extend well beyond academia. Our research specifically targets
 pressing social challenges, including UN SDGs (Thomas’s DRIVE project) and the needs of
 underserved or left behind communities (Pope and Gyori’s work with NEETs). Our research
 benefits individuals and organisations at local, national and international level. In particular, our
 funded projects have enabled us to significantly extend the reach of our impact both nationally
 and internationally. Partner organisations we have worked with include: The Reading Agency,
 Worldreader, the British Library, book retailers and a number of digital publishers. Practice-led
 research has also been key in engaging non-academic audiences through performance and
 digital interaction. Both practice-led research and research involving participatory methods has
 produced tools and models which benefit the general public and stakeholders.

 All of our researchers regularly organise and participate in public engagement events,
 establishing longstanding, sustainable relationships with community organisations and schools.
 Examples include Goodman’s series of talks at the Poole Lighthouse (2014-16), and the
 involvement of several colleagues in the bicentennial anniversary of the publication of
 Frankenstein. The celebration was a major anniversary in English studies. At local level, this
 involved collaboration with St Peter’s Church (where Mary Shelley is buried), the Shelley
 Theatre and Bournemouth and Poole councils. Gyori’s Shelley’s Heart, staged at the Shelley

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theatre and in the grounds of St Peter’s in 2018, is an interactive play based on the life and
 works of Mary Shelley.

 In 2017, NCCR funded a research assistant to work with colleagues from English to monitor
 impact and to work with new members of staff and ECRs to develop a sustainable suite of
 impact case studies. In 2018, the Faculty employed a postdoctoral researcher for a period of
 two years to work closely with the UoA27 team. This researcher, Mills, has since been
 appointed to the permanent staff in English (0.7).

 Emerging areas of impact have been supported by funding from departmental and research
 centre budgets. Projects include Genarrator, an online publishing platform developed by Pope,
 Shelley’s Heart, a locative work by Gyori featured during the Shelley Festival and Goodman’s
 work on contemporary drinking cultures.

 From 2017, colleagues from the unit including ECRs have attended numerous training events on
 impact organised by the university, as well as STEAM labs and sandpits designed to generate
 links with local stakeholders. PGR students are also involved in public engagement and impact
 activities, for example; Alberda’s graphic medicine exhibitions held at BU, London and Portugal.
 Staff from the unit (Dix, Mills, Round, Thomas) have also contributed to the university’s week-
 long Festival of Learning which is open to the general public and free to attend.

 Future Aims for research and impact

 The unit’s research activity is driven by an ambitious strategic plan for consolidating and
 developing our research activities in order to ensure the sustainability of English at BU and to
 make a significant contribution to the vitality of the discipline as a whole. Building on our
 reputation for delivering high quality innovative and impactful research, key strategic aims
 include the following:

    i)       To further establish Bournemouth’s reputation as a leading institution
             in English for excellent research on the intersections between literature and media.
    ii)      To further consolidate and support emergent and new research groupings.
    iii)     To prioritise support for research and career development for early and mid-career
             researchers.
    iv)      To expand our PGR and PDRA cohort in English.
    v)       To strengthen our pathways to impact by building on and expanding links with
             industry and key stakeholders and policy makers.


 2. People

 For humanities researchers, the sustainability of research programmes depends almost entirely
 on the productivity of a critical mass of key researchers. The most fundamental kind of support
 required by our researchers is time in which to do research. Bournemouth’s work planning model
 ensures that all staff have 25-50% of their time devoted to research while the university also
 supports flexible working and career breaks. All full-time staff at Bournemouth receive a base
 level research allocation of 400 hours. Buy out of time from funded projects is protected.
 University work planning policy includes robust provision for reduced teaching allocations for
 colleagues returning from maternity leave, medium and long-term sickness and for ECRs. There
 are also options for colleagues to take career breaks with their provision back-filled by fixed term
 appointments and/or undertake in/formal flexible working arrangements. An annual round of pay
 progression and promotion awards provides motivation for career advancement based on
 demonstrating excellence in research (outputs, grant capture, interdisciplinary and collaborative
 working, research leadership).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A.    Staffing Strategy

 New appointments at lecturer, senior lecturer and Professorial level have significantly enhanced
 and diversified our research profile, ensuring the sustainability of the unit. Retention of new staff
 since 2010 is 100% and a number of members of staff recruited as part time hourly paid staff, or
 on fractional contracts have progressed to permanent contracts (Masters, Teo, Mills) providing
 greater job security and allowing all staff to participate fully in the research culture. We comply
 with the ‘Good Practice Guide for Employing Temporary Staff in English’ as developed by
 University English (http://www.universityenglish.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/Good-
 Practice-Guide-Employing-Temporary-Staff-in-English.pdf).

 Bournemouth has a semesterised framework for course delivery, which means that teaching
 loads can be phased to create blocks of time when clear priority can be given to research. This
 enhances opportunities for staff mobility, an increasing priority as part of our internationalisation
 strategy.

 Bournemouth is committed to aligning its research processes and practices to the UK Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers to improve the working conditions and
 career development for research staff.

 Promotion and Leadership

 At senior level, in 2017 Thomas was promoted to Professor of English and New Media, and Cox
 was appointed as Professor of English in 2019. Frost, Dix and Goodman were promoted to
 Principal Lecturer in 2016 and Gyori in 2018-19. Teo was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020.
 Since 2014, we have therefore seen substantial progress in terms of the careers of ECRs and
 mid-career researchers in the unit. The English team have held a number of leadership roles in
 the Faculty. Cox and Thomas represent English on the Faculty’s Professoriate and the
 Department of Humanities and Law Leadership Team, and both sit on the Faculty’s Research
 and Professional Practice Committee. Thomas and Goodman sit on panels for the University’s
 ACORN ECR and Charity Impact Funding Panels. Goodman and Round shared responsibility as
 Convenors for the Narrative Research Group between 2014 and 2018, with Round progressing
 to Deputy Head of NCCR (with Thomas as Head) in 2019.

 Staff Development

 All staff complete annual research plans used during appraisals which provides one means for
 monitoring progress and identifying developmental needs. A comprehensive programme of staff
 development activities is provided by the University’s Organisational Development Team.

 All new staff including those on fractional contracts are allocated a research mentor to facilitate
 their integration into the research culture. All staff are actively encouraged to take up
 opportunities for training provided by the Researcher Development and Support service
 including the services of bid writing consultants. Dix has benefited from one-to-one support with
 bid writing leading to two AHRC research network applications and a Leverhulme fellowship
 application, and Thomas attended the EU funding scheme resulting in two Marie Curie
 fellowship applications in 2016 and 2017. Henesy and Pope have both benefited from writing
 retreats aimed at developing researchers’ publications strategies and outputs, in Henesy’s case
 leading to the first publication after completing a PhD. Visiting Fellows attached to the unit play
 an important role both in terms of formal mentorship (Sue Thomas) and delivering training (Batty
 on practice-led research).

 Several colleagues have been successful in applying for research leave funded by the Faculty
 from QR allocation (Thomas, Round, Goodman) in 2016 and 2017. These directly benefited
 work on monographs and the development of successful funding bids. We have also had
 successes in securing internal funding for research assistance, conference organisation and
 publication costs (Round, Goodman, Frost). A competitive QR funding scheme for conferences

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allows colleagues to regularly present their work internationally, with full time members of staff
 expected to attend a minimum of one international conference per year. Since 2018,
 applications for QR funding in the Faculty link directly to the University’s Strategic Investment
 Areas and also to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with more robust reporting of how
 the funding will support outputs and/or the development of research bids.

 B.     Research Students

 Bournemouth has restructured, strengthened and invested in the Doctoral College (formerly the
 Graduate School) providing enhanced training and development activities for both students and
 supervisors. Funding for PGRs is also provided through annual studentship awards, with a mix
 of match-funded and fully funded awards offered annually on a competitive basis.

 We currently have 11 PhD students supervised by English staff and 6 EdD student. PGRs
 include members of staff undertaking doctorates, self-funded PhD students from China and the
 US, and one student recruited via a competitive process whose PhD is fully funded by the
 Faculty. Topics include: Chinese slash fiction, graphic medicine, autopoetics and social media
 poetics. Our postgraduate cohort has grown significantly since 2014 and our staff base now has
 considerable expertise and experience of both supervising and examining doctoral students.

 Research administration in the Faculty supports both PGR students and supervisors.
 Monitoring of PGR students takes place at the Research Student Degrees Committee which all
 PhD supervisors are expected to attend and which reports to the Doctoral College. The
 university has also invested in an online PGR monitoring system (Research PAD) which records
 supervisory meetings and major milestones. All supervisors undertake training provided by the
 Doctoral College for both new and experienced supervisors (renewed every 5 years). Training is
 also provided for examiners and chairs of vivas.

 New students undertake a programme of induction events organised by the Doctoral College.
 Major milestones are the Probationary Review (after 3 months for a full time PGR) and Major
 Review/Transfer (which takes place 14 months after enrolment).

 To date, Thomas has supervised 3 students to completion during the REF period. Jacey has
 two. Frost has supervised one EdD student to completion. Several students are expected to
 complete within the next year (including those supervised by Thomas, Dix/Frost and
 Goodman/Round).

 Many colleagues (Thomas, Round, Goodman) are involved in interdisciplinary supervisory
 teams, including practice-led research, ProfDs and EdDs. Our aim is to ensure that at least 50%
 of full-time members of staff in the unit have supervised one PhD student to completion and
 examined at least one PhD externally. To achieve this, strategic consideration is given to the
 creation and allocation of supervisory teams at Department and Faculty levels.

 Feedback from postgraduate students in the Faculty is gathered via various forms of annual
 monitoring including national surveys such as PTES and PRES. The University provides
 learning development and pastoral support for PGRs through the Additional Learning Service
 and Student Engagement and Support officers. PGRs are required to undertake training through
 the Doctoral College before taking on teaching responsibilities.

 The Doctoral College provides a full programme of activities and training for PGRs. In 2018
 Allard won second prize at the BU PGR conference, and Alberda has organised two Faculty
 PGR conferences in 2018 and 2019. Also within the Faculty, PGR lunchtime seminars
 (organised by Alberda in 2019) provide a forum for meeting and sharing research.

 Research students supervised by members of NCCR are automatically included as Centre
 members. Several current PGRs (Alberda, Khan, Allard) have presented at NCCR seminars.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Preparing research students for future careers

 As well as personalised skills development and induction into the research culture, the Doctoral
 School offers regular training sessions on topics including ‘Presenting at Conferences’ and
 ‘Academic writing and publishing’. All full-time fee paying doctoral students have a fund of
 £3000 to support research expenses and are expected to present at both the university’s PGR
 conferences and at national and international conferences. Research students are also given
 opportunities to gain experience of teaching while at BU, undertake a Department level
 induction, a teach@BU course, and are assigned mentors to provide support and training.
 Research students are part of our academic community and are invited to our Department
 Committee Meetings, NCCR planning meetings and Writing Retreats.

 C.    Equality and Diversity

 Bournemouth University became a member of the Athena Swan charter in 2012 and received a
 bronze award in 2015. Since 2019 the Department of Humanities and Law has been working
 towards a two-year development timeline for an Athena Swan submission. The university has an
 active Women’s Academic Network – Hawkhead is one of the convenors, while Jacey, Cox,
 Thomas and Round are all active members.

 The university has an Equality and Diversity Steering Group which meets every semester to
 develop policy around areas such as dignity and respect. Cox is the Faculty representative on
 the university’s Wellbeing group. The Faculty hosts regular wellbeing drop ins, and an Invisible
 Disability group was set up in 2019.

 Within the unit, we have achieved an inclusive and supportive culture by embedding equality and
 diversity in our behaviours and values. The leadership team and internal review panel are
 gender balanced, our management structures provide equity of opportunity for roles and an even
 distribution of responsibilities and we have made adjustments within roles to ensure the inclusion
 of part-time and ECR colleagues. We currently have 2 female Professors of English and one
 BAME member of staff. Ensuring increased scrutiny of equality and diversity will be a priority in
 terms of future recruitment.

 We aim to support equality and diversity in the management and organisation of all research
 processes. In 2018 an expression of interest system was introduced for the recruitment of review
 panels and funding panels at BU to ensure transparency and parity in the appointment process.
 All staff taking part in reviewing for the REF, and all staff who sit on funding, recruitment and
 promotion panels are required to undertake equality and diversity training. Panel members also
 have to undertake unconscious bias training.

 Externally facing projects and public engagement events led by staff have ensured that attention
 to equality and diversity is built into the design of recruitment of participants and the design of
 project teams. Research outputs also aim for equality and diversity in terms of case studies, for
 example, to ensure gender balance and regional, national and ethnic diversity in terms of
 chosen texts.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 A.    Income

 Support for bidding is provided centrally by the Researcher Development and Support service,
 including access to one-to-one support for research council funding, and an internal quality
 review process. Within the unit support is provided by workshops drawing on the expertise of
 AHRC and UKRI peer review college members (Round, Thomas and Goodman).

 From a very small staff base we have had some notable successes attracting research income.
 Thomas has led three UKRI funded projects since 2014 with a value of c.£170,000. Round was

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Co-I on the first of these projects, and Frost was a member of the Advisory Group. Goodman
 has also secured funding twice from the Wellcome Trust, to the value of over £30,000 and has
 used research leave, grant writing support and research mentoring to position him to apply for
 larger grants as he transitions from ECR to mid-career status. Pope and Gyori have secured
 funding of c. £10,000 from local businesses and the local council to support practice-led
 research. Internally, Frost, Round and Pope have all received funding from the Fusion
 Investment Fund, both pump priming projects studying contemporary reading habits and leading
 to publications and external funding bids. We believe that the volume and quality of our current
 research should in future generate increased external funding. Our priority going forward is to
 ensure an increase in the percentage of staff from English submitting bids while also increasing
 the size of bids.

 B.     Infrastructure

 The Researcher Development and Support service provides comprehensive support and advice
 on funding applications and research activities and events, with two full time dedicated staff
 based in the Faculty. Specialist advice on EU and GCRF funding is also provided by RDS. The
 university regularly hosts visits from major funders (British Academy, Leverhulme, AHRC)
 providing staff with information on the latest funding opportunities.

 The university allocates QR funding to Faculties and the Deputy Dean for Research then
 allocates this proportionally to departments and research centres. This funding is reviewed and
 monitored at Faculty level. The vast majority of conference attendance is funded at Faculty
 level. Approximately £600k was invested in activities related to conference or workshop
 attendance at national or international level during the REF period. Since 2014 NCCR has
 received between £2000 and £10000 annually. In addition, UoA27 has received support
 (£10,000 in 2017) for developing impact case studies as well as a dedicated PDRA for impact
 (Mills).

 The university has introduced funding streams to support Strategic Investment Areas, with
 regular opportunities for staff to apply for funds. Funding panels for ECRs, Charity Impact,
 Research Impact, GCRF and HEIF funding were also introduced in 2018-19, providing sources
 of income for BU staff to develop projects. To date, Pope and Goodman have been awarded
 funding by the Research Impact and Charity Impact panels. Other institutional incentives include
 match funding of PhDs for larger grant applications, and an individual incentive scheme
 guaranteeing a portion of income for an Institutional Research Account to be used for future
 research programmes.

 All staff members have access to Research Professional to provide them with bespoke
 information about relevant funding opportunities. Notifications and alerts about upcoming funding
 opportunities are also provided by the University Research Blog and Faculty Forum Online.

 C.    Facilities

 Library facilities supporting research

 The Sir Michael Cobham Library (TSMCL) has a designated Post Graduate Zone with both silent
 and group study spaces. Together TSMCL on the Talbot Campus and Bournemouth House
 Library at the Lansdowne have 1,785 study spaces. Also included are around 650 fixed PCs, 75
 of which are pre-bookable. Collaborative working is supported with 17 ‘Technobooths’, 3 in the
 Post Graduate Zone. These enable groups to work on projects together via a large screen. In
 Summer 2020 the Weston Library opened on the ground floor of the new Bournemouth Gateway
 Building adding extra capacity which can be utilised by researchers.




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 - Collections relating to UoA27
 The library budget for resources for the Faculty is £56k for books and standing orders and £56k
 for journals. The budget for electronic resources in the Faculty of Media and Communications is
 £170k. This includes subscriptions to resources for English.

 We have in the region of 32,500 print books relevant to our research area, and in total nearly
 400,000 e-books, over 3,600 DVDs and 55,000 e-journals. Researchers also benefit from an
 Inter Library Loans service to access materials not held in the collections. Audio visual resources
 are available via our subscriptions to resources such as Box of Broadcasts (BoB) and Kanopy,
 and we have access to thousands of historic and contemporary newspapers and magazines via
 our subscriptions to Gale Reference Complete, PressReader, Lexis Library and the digital
 archives for The Times, Guardian and Independent.

 - Library support
 The library contributes to BU’s Researcher Development Programme delivering workshops on
 Research Data Management, Open Access, Literature Searching, Referencing, Avoiding
 Plagiarism and on Bibliometrics.

 Buildings, events and study spaces for researchers

 Since 2014, the university has invested in new buildings and refurbished existing buildings.
 All English staff are based in Weymouth House in a mix of open plan and individual offices. An
 extensive programme of renovation is underway. A Staff Centre in Poole House offers spaces
 and computers for working away from offices, organising meetings etc as well as a space to
 meet and socialise. PGR students also have access to these facilities and to facilities provided in
 the Student Centre which also has quiet areas for working and bookable areas for social
 activities and meetings.

 Research events organised by English staff have made use of the excellent conference facilities
 provided by the university’s Executive Business Centre and events are also regularly held in the
 Faculty’s screening room. Public engagement events have been regularly hosted at the Poole
 Lighthouse and the Shelley Theatre in Boscombe.

 Staff in the unit also benefit from access to state of the art studios and labs, especially
 colleagues engaged in practice-led research (Gyori, Pope) requiring access to hardware (VR
 headsets), software and post production suites.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 A.    Collaboration and contribution to research base

 Despite the fact that we are a small unit, our contribution to the research base is substantial and
 wide ranging. As individual researchers, many colleagues contribute to both established and
 emerging subfields of English, and a great deal of our research pushes the boundaries of the
 subject in terms of content, approach and method. As a unit, we contribute most to identifying,
 analysing and understanding emerging literary cultures, practices and markets, and to extending
 the reach of the discipline through developing new interdisciplinary connections.

 Collaboration both across faculties and externally has been supported by several BU, Faculty
 and Research Centre initiatives. Colleagues from the unit have both taken part in and hosted
 sandpits, STEAM labs and speed dating sessions on virtual reality and assistive technology
 leading to collaborations on funding bids including Thomas’s EPSRC award in 2020. NCCR has
 funded visiting researchers and fellows and research seminars are coordinated and advertised
 centrally to ensure widespread participation.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research is highly collaborative, both in terms of outputs (Thomas and Round, Round and
 Pope, Cox and Dix) and funded projects (Thomas and Round, Gyori and Pope). External
 collaborations are also vital in enhancing the quality and significance of our research. This is
 particularly evidenced through edited collections involving international authors (Thomas and
 Mildorf, Cox and Watson, Dix) that explore new territories such as Anglophone autofiction.

 Researchers at Bournemouth are actively involved in several international research networks
 including the Digital Reading Network led by Thomas and Round, a EU COST Action
 (Cyberparks 2015-18) for which Thomas was one of four UK members, and Lost in Translation,
 translating German comics into English bringing together existing UK based and German comics
 networks (Round). In 2020 the DRIVE project led by Thomas set up an international network
 featuring academics and stakeholders from Kenya, Syria, the US and Europe. This network
 further establishes Bournemouth’s reputation as a major centre for the study of digital reading
 and significantly enhances both the unit and the university’s international profile.

 The unit also has strong links with research organisations and institutions internationally. Frost is
 a member of the Literary Citizens of the World project funded by the Research Council of
 Norway and the Bookselling Research Network. Visiting Fellowships also provide opportunities
 to establish research collaborations across continents. Cox has held visiting Professorships in
 both Delhi and Zagreb, while NCCR has Visiting Fellows based in the US and Australia and has
 hosted visiting ECRs from Spain and Portugal.

 Other networks and societies members are actively involved in include subject associations -
 University English, English Association, National Association of Writers in Education - and
 subject networks and societies such as: the Contemporary Women’s Writing Association, the
 Drink Studies Network, MECCSA (Thomas, Round, Jacey, Gyori, Pope), the Popular Culture
 Association of America (Goodman, Round), the National Association of Writers in Education
 (Pope, Jacey), Women in Film and TV (Jacey), the Writer’s Guild Great Britain (Jacey), the
 Association of Internet Researchers (Thomas, Gyori) and the Association for Welsh Writing in
 English (Dix).

 Conference organisation has also provided opportunities to bring leading international
 researchers to Bournemouth. Examples include: the Digital Reading Symposium (2014, Thomas
 and Round), the International Graphic Novel and Comics Conference (2018 Round, part funded
 by NCCR), Console-ing Passions (2018, Thomas was a Member of the Organising Committee),
 Frankenstein Unbound (2018, Mills, co-organised with the Arts University at Bournemouth),
 Liquid Modernity (2019, Goodman, supported by NCCR), ICIDS 2020 (International Conference
 on Interactive Digital Storytelling, Pope Co-creative Chair).

 Invited speakers at NCCR research seminars since 2014 have included Professor Matt Hills
 (Huddersfield), Professor Emma Griffin (UEA), novelist Claire Fuller, and Professor Peter
 Simonsen (Denmark).

 In turn, the profile of research at Bournemouth has been enhanced through researchers
 delivering keynote addresses at over 30 research events and conferences in the UK and
 internationally. Round has delivered keynotes at the International Conference of Graphic Novels
 and Comics (2016) and the Confor Conference (Bonn, 2017). Frost delivered one of the
 keynotes at the Literature and Formats Conference at the University of Copenhagen in 2019,
 and Dix has delivered keynotes at Koblenz-Landau (2016) and Mannheim (2014). Thomas has
 delivered keynotes at The Mechanical Muse Conference in Sienna (2015), the Experimental
 Narratives conference in London (2015) and the Digital Practices conference in Basel (2020).

 The quality of our research and its importance internationally has been recognised through
 awards for research including: the International Crime Fiction Association award for best
 nonfiction work (2020, Cox and Watson), the Thomas Inge Award for Comics Scholarship
 (Round, Popular Culture Association, 2015) and the 2019 Broken Frontier Award for the Best
 Book on Comics (Round).

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 B.    External Citizenship and Contribution to the discipline as a whole

 Research at Bournemouth contributes to the ongoing diversification and continued sustainability
 of the discipline, particularly through our pioneering work on digital cultures and literary media.
 Our research demonstrates the continued relevance and contribution of English to contemporary
 cultural life.

 Colleagues hold a number of positions in leading research bodies. Between 2014 and 2020,
 Frost was Director of Transnational Affairs for SHARP (Society for the History of Authorship,
 Readers and Publishing), with responsibility for diversity and globalisation. Teo was elected as a
 Committee member of the British Association for Contemporary Literary Studies (BACLS) in
 2020. Thomas was a member of the AHRC Peer Review College from 2012-18, and both
 Thomas and Sam Goodman were appointed as UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships Panel
 Members in 2018. Goodman and Round were appointed to the AHRC Peer Review College in
 2020 and Goodman has been invited to contribute to the Wellcome Trust Expert Review Group
 in 2020. Goodman has also reviewed for the European Research Council from January 2020.

 Frost is a Senior Editor for OUP’s Oxford Research Encyclopedia and is on the editorial board
 for Anthem Studies in Book History, Round is Editor of Studies in Comics and Dix is on the
 editorial boards for Anglosphere, Auto/fiction and Media Watch. Colleagues regularly review for
 international journals (Journal of Commonwealth Literature, Gender Studies, Convergence,
 Participations, New Media and Society, Language and Literature), and scholarly publishers
 (Routledge, Palgrave, Sage, OUP, Manchester University Press).

 Since 2014, staff have examined PhDs at Birmingham University (Thomas, Teo), Kingston,
 Aberystwyth and Dundee (Round) and Southampton Solent (Murphy).

 C.    Contribution to economy and society

 Research in English at Bournemouth impacts on a range of non-academic users from two
 groups: those described conventionally as users and producers, although one effect of the unit’s
 research is a blurring of the boundaries between the two. By producers, we mean book
 publishers and the creative industries working with emerging forms and formats. The users we
 impact are the broad reach of non-professional, and sometimes disenfranchised readers and
 audiences traditionally excluded by gatekeeping activities of the creative industries. These
 include NEETS (not in education, employment or training) in the local Bournemouth area,
 individuals who are socially isolated for health or mental health reasons, and elderly users
 engaging with digitally mediated texts. The Reading on Screen project led by Thomas
 contributed significantly to the Axe the Reading Tax campaign in the UK in 2019-20 which
 resulted in a major change in policy when the UK government agreed to remove VAT on digital
 publications during the COVID crisis. The DRIVE project led by Thomas further extends the
 impact of our research, specifically benefiting underserved groups in developing countries and
 addressing underlying inequalities and social and cultural stigmas.

 Through the unit’s research, these groups are experiencing –
    i)     heightened personal achievement impacting on identity formation and wellbeing;
    ii)    direction and guidance affecting the future development of digital cultures;
    iii)   matching the demands of users with appropriate platforms.

 The beneficiaries of this approach are public organisations and groups with investments in self-
 enfranchisement, and particularly with issues of self-representation. Local schools and youth
 groups, NGOs (Worldreader), charities (The Reading Agency; Hurting to Healing; Survivors UK)
 and disability inclusion organisations (Ruh Global; Inable (Kenya); Sightsavers) all fall within our
 remit, as well as the local, national and international creative industries (One to One
 Development Trust; Random House) providing services for those groups and developing
 business based on their needs. We help people who desire but lack access to public narrative


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 self-representation and help those segments of the creative industries that build businesses on
 that desire.

 Practice-led research at Bournemouth also has a significant impact on the local community and
 the creative industries particularly in addressing marginalisation and misrepresentation. Gyori
 and Pope have worked with charities for the homeless and delivered workshops on interactive
 storytelling for local schools and community groups. Jacey’s work on writing female characters
 which has become a standard guide for screenwriters. Jacey regularly delivers story consultancy
 and training for national screen agencies and internationally in the USA and Poland.

 Public Engagement Activities

 English staff and PGRs at Bournemouth regularly organise and take part in public engagement
 events in the locality and also internationally. The New Media Writing Prize runs annually and
 attracts an international list of entries. A new category for International Journalism was
 introduced in 2016 and the Prize also has a student category with the prize of an internship with
 a local tech company.
 PGR student Alberda has participated in a number of data storytelling events involving the public
 and stakeholders with colleagues from the department of Communication and Journalism.
 Goodman’s Film Focus series involved screenings introduced by BU Staff at the Poole
 Lighthouse 2014-2016. Gyori’s Writing Cabaret is a series of events held in Chaplin’s Bar in
 Boscombe, organised with support from MA Creative Writing Students.
 Jacey has delivered talks at the Cinema Museum, Wave of Dreams Art Lab on her new
 detective series, and to the Depot in Lewes for an event for International Women’s Day on the
 75th anniversary of Mildred Pierce.
 Internationally, Thomas delivered a keynote talk at a Festival of Reading in the De Krook Library
 in Ghent in December 2016 and also took part in a Google hangout roundtable on the impact of
 Amazon on the book market for Sydney’s Digital Literature Festival in 2018.

 Media Appearances

 Bournemouth University’s Media Directory provides a useful resource for connecting with
 experts. Colleagues have participated in a variety of media events including:

 Goodman has featured 5 times on BBC R3 Free Thinking. He participated as a panel member
 for a discussion of Viceroy’s House and Anglo-Indian fiction (2017), provided a review of The
 Night Manager (2016), reviewed SPECTRE (2015) and provided a postcard piece on Twentieth
 Century Spy Fiction in 2015. In January 2019 he was an invited panelist for a special feature on
 Time and Boredom. In 2020 he appeared on Radio 4’s Open Book to discuss contemporary spy
 fiction. He also appeared on BBC 2’s Newsnight as a contributor in 2015.

 Goodman has also contributed articles to the Times Higher Education 3/12/15: ‘Public
 Engagement: Go Forth & Mingle’ (2015) and to The Guardian’s Saturday Review: ‘James Bond,
 Spy Fiction & the Decline of Empire’ (2015).

 Round has contributed to podcasts on the Stiff Upper Lip and the Mega City Book Club (both
 2020) and was interviewed by the What Sleeps Beneath website (also 2020).

 Jacey has contributed articles to The Telegraph on gender issues facing the film and tv
 industries and to Myslexia magazine on creating a historical detective.

 Thomas has contributed articles to The Conversation and appeared on Canada’s CBC and local
 radio station Hope FM to talk about her research on digital reading. Articles about the Reading
 on Screen project have appeared in the Bournemouth Daily Echo.




                                                                                           Page 14
