Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The University of Manchester
 Unit of Assessment: 12 (Engineering)
 1. Context and mission
1a. Overview
Engineering in the University of Manchester (UoM) has made significant improvements since
REF2014. We have created integrated Schools of Engineering and of Natural Sciences,
established the Henry Royce Institute (Royce), and developed strong interdisciplinary themes
guiding our research. The vitality of the Unit is evidenced by the following highlights from the REF
period:
     Selected to lead Royce and host the Royce Hub Building (5,618 m2, £215m total), based on
        our strength in advanced materials research.
     £552m investment in state-of-the-art infrastructure including a new single-site Manchester
        Engineering Campus Development, MECD (18,940 m2 research laboratories, £425m), the
        National Graphene Institute, NGI (7,500 m2, £62m), Graphene Engineering and Innovation
        Centre, GEIC (3,058 m2, £50m), and refurbished materials laboratories (2,000 m2, ~£15m).
     Appointment of Withers as inaugural Regius Professor of Materials and Chief Scientist of
        Royce.
     Tyndall-Manchester’s Local Carbon Budget Tool used by 250 local authorities, approved for
        inclusion in the UN Race to Zero initiative (REF2021 Impact Case Study, ICS).
     EPSRC award of £12.2m for Robotics and Artificial Intelligence for Nuclear, which led to 10
        deployments of robots into active facilities, four subsystems bought to market, and two
        spin-out companies.
     Award of £8.0m in Prosperity Partnerships and £16.7m in programme grants
     Award of RAEng Chair in Emerging Technologies to Lennox and four RAEng Research
        Chairs with companies: Prangnell with Airbus, Kinloch with Morgan Advanced Materials,
        Connelly with EDF, and Xiao with Rolls-Royce.
      Host of EPSRC Supergen Bio-energy Hub, and then host to co-directors of three Supergen
       Hubs (2018-22): Bio-energy, Offshore Renewable Energy, and Energy Systems; £4m
       EPSRC investment into National Grid High Voltage Laboratory.
      GCRF FutureDAMS award with Harou as Research Director of £8.2m consortium,
       supporting an ICS in system-scale design for hydropower systems around the world.
      Lead of the Energy and Water-Energy Science themes for phase 1 and phase 2 of the UK
       Catalysis Hub; Hardacre Director of the Hub.
      15 new spin-out companies.
      Queen’s Award for Enterprise (Innovation Category, 2016) to Mettler Toledo Safeline for
       metal detection technology led by Peyton; Institute of Physics Business Innovation award
       (2020) to Advanced Hall Sensors for magnetic sensor commercialization with Missous.
      Election of Hinduja, Lennox, O’Brien, and Soutis as Fellows of the Royal Academy of
       Engineering (FREng, 16 in place within period) and Withers as Fellow of the Royal Society
       (FRS, seven in place within period); award of a CBE to O’Brien and MBEs to Azapagic
       and George; Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award to Kiss; and >45 institutional
       and learned-society medals to staff.
      2014 Royal Institution Christmas Lectures by George.
      Total £385m research income; average annual income 69% greater than in REF2014.
      Total 1,460 PGRs completed; average annual number of doctorates awarded 7% greater
       than in REF2014.
                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy
1b. Unit structure
Research is framed by Faculty, Schools, and Departments, with Institutes cutting across these
structures to facilitate interdisciplinary research objectives. At the start of the REF period,
the Faculty of Science and Engineering (FSE) comprised nine separate Schools. To advance our
strategic aims, especially interdisciplinary collaboration, we restructured the Faculty in 2018 by
creating a School of Engineering and a School of Natural Sciences, with nine constituent
Departments. As a result, School leadership and budgets span disciplines, allowing research areas
to be prioritized and research quality and impact to be increased.
The submitted Unit is drawn from the two new Schools with its 326 academic staff from one of four
Departments: Chemical Engineering and Analytical Sciences (CEAS), Electrical and Electronic
Engineering (EEE), and Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering (MACE), all in the School of
Engineering, and the Department of Materials (MATS) in the School of Natural Sciences.
The School Heads of Research (SHoR) provide strategic research leadership and work with
Departmental Heads of Research (DHoR), to enable and monitor progress through Departmental
Research Committees. The SHoRs, DHoRs, and Research Institute Directors belong to the Faculty
Research Strategy Group, which facilitates communication and debate on research, encourages
interdisciplinary activities, and oversees Faculty research strategies.
The four Departments of the Unit provide local support, guidance, and operational implementation
of strategic objectives. Each research group in each Department has a critical mass of researchers
working within one or more of the five overarching themes described in §1c.3. Group leadership is
usually established by consensus, not seniority, to allow flexibility and opportunity for early career
researcher development.
The Faculty’s Research College, which spans the two Schools, was created during the Faculty
restructure to promote the FSE research agenda, including postgraduate research (PGR) and
infrastructure, and share best practice on grant submissions, outputs, and impact.
The University’s interdisciplinary Research Institutes provide further support for collaborative
research (§1f.1, REF5a §2.iii).
1c. Research within REF period

1c.1 Overview
This submission combines five Engineering units returned in REF2014. The alignment of the
submitted research plans laid the foundations for subsequent developments. A recurring theme
was the importance of interdisciplinary research and the opportunities available with the two new
Schools, the Royce Hub building, and MECD.
The REF2014 plans identified five generic goals, reviewed in the sections cited:
      Appoint strategically to underpin excellence and encourage interdisciplinary research (§2a).
      Invest in building internationally excellent doctoral training programmes (§2b).
      Diversify sources of funding, particularly from industry and international sources (§3a).
      Invest in physical infrastructure and facilities, forming platforms of excellence (§3b).
      Cultivate new strategic collaborations with industry and internationally (§4a).




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The REF2014 plans also shared an ambition to exploit emerging themes in advanced materials
and processes, bioengineering, energy, environment, and integrated systems. These themes were
nurtured over period and shape this submission (§1c.3).

1c.2 Research excellence
The Unit’s achievements in this REF period included marked improvements in research income
and citations; recognition by national academies; and honours and awards. Over the period, the
average research income per FTE increased by 47%, including three Prosperity Partnerships. Staff
published 7,178 journal articles, of which 1,516 (21%) were in the Scopus top 10% field-weighted
percentile, including 7 Science, 10 Nature, and 52 Nature-family papers. The average number of
doctorates awarded per year was 209, with a 5-year completion rate of 79% for 2014 entries. The
Unit had 22 Fellows of national academies with 16 FREng and 7 FRS, including 5 new Fellows,
two staff awarded MBEs, and one a CBE (§4b).

1c.3 Interdisciplinary Research Themes
Figure 1 shows the development of the Unit’s five interdisciplinary Research Themes. Details are
given in the following sections with achievements of specific REF2014 plans indicated and ‘ICS’
referring to a submitted REF2021 Impact Case Study (see §1e, Figure 2).
Advanced Materials and Processes
This theme focused on the understanding and control of materials from their atomic structure to
macroscale properties, novel manufacturing routes, and applications. It is supported by
collaborations enabled by Royce, characterization facilities, and investments in UoM’s Research
Institutes and Centres (§1f.1), namely the BP International Centre for Advanced Materials (bp-
ICAM), National Graphene Institute (NGI), Graphene and Engineering and Innovation Centre
(GEIC), Thomas Ashton Institute (TAI), Manchester Environment Research Institute (MERI),
Manchester Institute of Biotechnology (MIB), Photon Science Institute (PSI), and Tyndall
Manchester. Highlights included metallurgy activity ranked top in Europe in the Academic Ranking
of World Universities (ARWU, 2018), five spin-outs from 2D-materials activity (§3b.1), two
Prosperity Partnerships (§3a.3), and 47 Clarivate ESISM Highly Cited Papers.
    2D Materials. Exploiting opportunities with the NGI and GEIC (REF2014), we made significant
    progress in characterization, production, composites, electrochemistry, photonics,
    membranes, and sensors, leading to eight Science/Nature papers. Funding sources were
    broadened with £8.6m (to Unit) from Government and charities, ERC Fellowships (e.g.
    MATTERDESIGN, £1m), ERC Grants (Graphene Flagship, UoM £7.8m), and EPSRC, along
    with £5.8m industrial funding from BP, Petronas, YKK, and others. Our work on sporting goods
    with Inov8 has reached the market (G-Grip™, §4a.4). The NoWNANO Centre for Doctoral
    Training (CDT) has prepared the next generation of 2D materials scientists (REF2014) with a
    new approach to enterprise supported by the competitive Eli and Britt Harari Enterprise Award
    (£70k/year) for founding 2D-related spin-outs, with three in the Unit (e.g. Nanoplexus).
    Advanced Manufacturing. We consolidated and built on innovative manufacture research
    (REF2014) in additive production of multiple-material components, micro/nano fabrication, and
    digital and sustainable manufacture. An illustrative outcome is the first 3D printing with multiple
    metallic and functionally graded metallic/non-metallic materials. Hinduja was elected FREng
    in recognition of his work on tooling technology for SMEs.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




   Figure 1. Main developments of REF2014 research into Unit’s overarching Themes.

                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Advanced Metallic Systems. We developed industry interactions (REF2014) with an Airbus
    RAEng chair and the LightForm programme grant (£4.8m, 16 industrial collaborators). The
    Advanced Metallics CDT (with Sheffield) was renewed with a direct industrial contribution for
    every PhD student (REF2014). By the end of period, the metallurgy research portfolio was
    £14m with three Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) awards.
    Corrosion and Wear. We strengthened existing alliances (REF2014), e.g. with AkzoNobel,
    which led to a Prosperity Partnership (SuSCoRD, £5m) awarded with Sheffield (§3a.3) and the
    AkzoNobel Chair (£0.7m in period) being extended. The Materials for Demanding
    Environments (M4DE) CDT, begun in 2014, seeded a Core Research Theme of Royce. Close
    collaboration with Rolls-Royce led to an ICS on barrier coatings (Xiao) and award of an
    RAEng Chair with £3.1m industrial funding.
    Photonic and Quantum Devices. Cross-disciplinary research and improving physical
    infrastructure (REF2014) were realized though investment and integration with the PSI
    (§3b.1). Since 2014 we have secured a >£18m portfolio of UKRI-funded research central to
    Royce’s Atoms to Devices theme. Collaboration with UK SME Ionoptika produced the
    commercial Q-One tool for quantum technology.
    Polymers, Textiles, and Composites. Supporting the research environment (REF2014),
    UoM invested ~£2m in new polymer chemistry laboratories underpinning research in other
    areas on anti-corrosion coatings, polymer recycling, and medical devices. Industrial
    collaborators included Airbus, SAFRAN, Collins Aerospace, GE Dowty, Sigmatex, DSTL, and
    Teijin. The composites activities led work in 3D Weaving (US 2015/0107715A1) and robotic
    multiaxial fibre placement (ICS Potluri). Young won the Institute of Materials, Mining and
    Metallurgy (IOM3) Platinum Medal.
    Safer Structures. Structural and fire engineering research was expanded (REF2014) aided by
    new research facilities (UKCRIC National Centre for Infrastructure Materials - Extreme
    Loading Facilities, EPSRC, £3m), with new industrial impacts (influencing Eurocodes for fire
    resistance, 3 EN 1993-1-2 and 4 EN 1994-1-2), and broadening research scope to include
    resilient supply chains for construction materials.
Bioengineering
Collaborations between life sciences, biology, materials science, and engineering research
delivered new manufacturing routes and healthcare technologies, enabled through MIB, Royce,
and MERI (§1f.1). Highlights included a polymeric peripheral nerve guide conduit that successfully
passed phase 1 clinical trials, spin-out Manchester BIOGEL, and an RAEng Enterprise Fellowship
that helped found biosurfactants spin-out Holiferm, which attracted £1m investment from a Dutch
venture capital firm.
    Bioelectronics. We capitalized on increasing interest in bioelectronics by applying our
    expertise in sensing and biomaterials to address smart wearables, flexible tattoos, sensor
    innovation in healthcare and agriculture, and regenerative medicine. Illustrative outputs in the
    Scopus top 2% field-weighted percentiles are https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actbio.2014.02.015 and
    https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TC03669H.
    Biomaterials. Investing in research excellence in biomaterials (REF2014) resulted in two
    ESPRC Fellowships (£1.2m and £2.3m), one of which licensed IP to BIOGEL, and a £1.6m
    grant in injectable microgels. Other outcomes include the EPSRC Advanced Biomedical
    Materials CDT with Sheffield and national leadership of Royce’s Biomaterials theme
    (Cartmell) and Philip Leverhulme Prize (Miller). Building on an institutional healthcare
                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    strategy (REF2014), UoM is a hub partner in the EPSRC UK Regenerative Medicine Platform
    and partner in Health Innovation Manchester.
    Industrial Biotechnology. Funding was attracted by the Centre for Synthetic Biology of Fine
    and Speciality Chemicals (BBSRC, £10.2m) and Future Bio-manufacturing Research Hub
    (EPSRC £8.7m). Dickson co-founded the UK Network in Bioprocessing BioProNET2
    (BBSRC/EPSRC £1.8m, 10 UK industrial groups) and was awarded the UK BioIndustry
    Association 2017 Peter Dunnill Lifetime Achievement Award.
Energy
This theme addressed energy generation (nuclear and offshore renewables) and storage,
conversion, distribution, resilience, and demand. Highlights included £10m EPSRC funding on
nuclear research, an international standard on transformer liquids adopted by National Grid (NG),
an ESRC award for the Centre for Climate Change and Social Transformation (CAST) tackling
energy demand, and investment in the High Voltage Test laboratory and the Rolls-Royce
University Technology Centre (UTC).
    Energy Systems. Addressing EPSRC’s focus on Whole Energy Systems, a portfolio of
    Tyndall Manchester projects (£2.7m) enabled a systems perspective (ICS McLachlan),
    expanding the Energy Theme to include £1.3m of EPSRC funding on transport energy
    systems (ICS Larkin) and £1.4m on social change including the CAST centre. Panteli led a
    national resilience assessment with NG. We integrated expertise and EPSRC capital funding
    in power systems, energy conversion, sensors, control systems, and communications (§3b.1).
    Our research on reduced use of fossil-oil insulating transformer liquid and advances in high-
    voltage cable systems led to two ICSs (Z. Wang, Rowland) and a 2015 IET Innovation Award
    (Built Environment Category). Our digital technologies research enabled Scottish Power
    Energy Networks to achieve savings of £0.9m in six new digital substation bays. Our aim to
    increase international collaborations (REF2014) led to joint appointments with the University of
    Melbourne, work with the University of Chile and Chilean electricity coordinator, and
    partnerships with universities in Zambia (§4a.1).
    Nuclear Engineering. Nuclear engineering research was consolidated and extended
    (REF2014). Our expert advisory partnership was renewed with the Office for Nuclear
    Regulation (ONR) in 2018 (£4m over period) and our Modelling and Simulation Centre
    expanded from founding partner EDF to include the National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL) and
    Jacobs Group. We led or contributed to several multi-partner collaborations including EPSRC
    MIDAS (£3.8m) and PACIFIC (§3a.2), EPSRC CDTs Next Generation Nuclear (2015-24) and
    Guaranteeing Reliable Economic Energy from Nuclear (GREEN, 2019-28), five Department for
    Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) Nuclear Programme projects (£3.7m). A novel
    treatment of irradiated nuclear graphite has attracted initial investment (£300k) from SME
    MARAD to develop this technology towards process-scale implementation.
    Renewables. We expanded research on sustainable and low-carbon energy systems
    (REF2014). Having hosted the EPSRC Supergen Bio-energy Hub, we then hosted as co-
    directors three Supergen Hubs (2018-22): Bio-energy, Energy Systems, and Offshore
    Renewable Energy. Research in offshore energy was consolidated (REF2014) by adding
    elements of offshore wind to marine and wind research. The programme grant HOME-
    Offshore (£1.8m, §3a.2) advanced remote inspection and asset management for offshore wind
    farms in partnership with other institutions and the ORE Catapult. An earlier project, STEP-
    WEC (2012-16), led to international collaborations including a CONACyT fellowship 2017-18
    and agreements for offshore wave-device demonstrators in Australia and China. UoM
                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    academics have been integral in establishing the UK Catalysis Hub. Hardacre led the energy
    theme in phase 1 and the water-energy theme in phase 2 of the Hub as well as the UK
    Catalysis Conference. He is the UK Catalysis Hub Director.
Environment
This theme brought engineering approaches to environmental preservation (atmosphere, water,
land) and sustainable food chains. It is supported by MERI (§1f.1) and Tyndall Manchester (§1f.1),
which expanded its energy focus during the period with £2.7m in non-capital grants on land and
food systems. Highlights included the GCRF FutureDAMS award (£2m to Unit), collaborating with
UoM social scientists in the Global Development Institute, £1.4m EPSRC Tyndall grant on the
Water-Energy-Food Nexus, and a spin-out agri-sensors business Fotenix.
    Environment and Water Engineering. Our commitment to water engineering (REF2014) for
    economic, social, and environmental benefit was advanced with the FutureDAMS project,
    which led to three NERC projects (£0.6m), Harou’s ICS, and reinforced international
    collaborations and EU ties (e.g. visiting Professorship at Jülich Research Centre).
    Sustainable Water-Energy-Food Systems. Tyndall Manchester’s expanded portfolio
    addressed interconnections between water, energy, and food with techno-economic
    assessments (ICS Welfle), a £1.4m Water-Energy-Food EPSRC Sandpit (£0.3m in Unit),
    Hoolohan’s Presidential Fellowship, and the co-direction of the £5.7m EPSRC-funded UK
    Centre in Sustainable Energy Use in Food Chains (2013-19). Over £17m on food-system-
    related funding was secured in period with Tesco, the Norwegian Research Council, EC, and
    UKRI. In Electronic Engineering in Agriculture (e-Agri) we developed e-devices for reducing
    waste, increasing yields and energy efficiency, and improving nutrition, attracting £2.9m of
    UKRI funding.
    Circular Economy. We have combined diverse groups across UoM to tackle the challenge of
    securing a more sustainable future. For example, the Rethinking Resources and Recycling
    (RE3) collaboration (UKRI £0.8m) brings groups together to seek solutions to plastics pollution
    through an integrated approach. RE3 laid the foundation for the Sustainable Materials
    Innovation Hub (ERDF, Royce £10m) in the Royce Hub Building. In another major initiative,
    the EPSRC LightForm project worked on alloys for closed-loop recycling (see Advanced
    Metallic Systems earlier).
Integrated Systems
This theme addressed the intersection of electronics, communications, and mechanical and control
systems to deliver integrated engineering solutions. Highlights included land-mine detection with
the charity Find a Better Way, an RAEng Emerging Technology Chair, the first-ever aircraft
manoeuvred in flight using supersonically blown air (‘MAGMA’ drone with BAE), and two ESISM
Highly Cited Papers.
    Aerospace. We strengthened and accelerated aerospace research (REF2014) with new
    appointments (§2a.1) and funding including a £2m Horizon 2020 award for technologies
    enabling satellite operation in very low Earth orbits, and sustained BAE support for unmanned-
    autonomous-vehicles research.
    Process Design and Control. We developed techniques for digital manufacturing and
    Industry 4.0 (REF2014) centred on the Pilot Plant facility (§3b.1). Industrial collaborators
    included Unilever, BP, Astra Zeneca, Johnson Matthey, AWE, Sellafield/NNL. Our advances in
    process integration found widespread industrial usage and led to an ICS (Jobson). Our work

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    on energy-management systems was recognized by the 2019 Energy and Buildings Best
    Paper Award.
    Robotics. Our research in technologies needing minimum human intervention (REF2014)
    delivered robot applications for the nuclear industry, facilitated by UoM’s purpose-built off-site
    laboratory in Cumbria (REEL Lab, §3b.1). Major funding included capital investment of £4.1m
    for the ISCF RAIN Hub (§3a.2), £4.1m programme grant, and an RAEng Chair in Emerging
    Technologies (£2.7m), with other academic appointments (§2a.1). Outcomes included
    strategic relationships with Sellafield Ltd and NNL, the deployment of robots on site (§4a.2),
    and Lennox elected FREng.
    Sensing Technologies, Communications, and Signal Processing. Our commitment to
    advancing electromagnetic modelling in new sensing and signal-processing areas led to
    applications in steel production and reactor-core inspection. Major funding included £3.5m
    from the land-mine-detection charity Find a Better Way and £0.8m through the EPSRC Centre
    in Non-Destructive Evaluation. Our collaborator Rapiscan Systems has applied our research
    with walk-through scanners for detecting and classifying metal objects.
Computational Modelling
This cross-cutting theme focused on engineering modelling underpinning other activities. To
expand our research in smoothed particle hydrodynamics, SPH (REF2014), we appointed new
lecturers (§2a.1) and extended SPH activity, achieving acceleration by massive parallelization and
first steps with novel quantum computing. We made multiple releases of the jointly developed
open-source SPH code DualSPHysics (https://dual.sphysics.org/), with subreleases approaching
10,000 downloads and growing adoption in motorsport, wastewater treatment, and nuclear waste
management, aided by four industry-sponsored PhDs. This research led to three international
prizes, seven keynote lectures, a Leverhulme/RAEng Fellowship, Leverhulme and EPSRC funding
(£1.2m at period end), and papers in the Scopus top 1% field-weighted percentile
(https://doi.org/10.1080/00221686.2015.1119209 and https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2014.10.004).
In other areas, we built fully parallelized GPU-based pore-network simulators and lattice Boltzmann
simulators for porous materials applications (REF2014), including two-phase flow, reactive
transport, and electrokinetics. This work led to influential publications (e.g. in Nature, Scientific
Reports, and PNAS), invited presentations to industry (e.g. BP, Bosch, Pall, Ballard, Equinor) and
conference presentations (Gordon Research Conference 2016, InterPore Conferences 2017,
2019), and research collaborations with Cornell, Princeton, and Stuttgart Universities.
1d. Research aims and objectives over next five years
Our overarching aims are these:
   1. To nurture a diverse and inclusive generation of outstanding engineers to maintain our
      world-leading expertise and develop core capabilities that address new engineering
      challenges and underpin our long-term competitiveness.
   2. To strengthen our contribution to internationally agreed targets on clean water, air, and soil
      and help the transition to clean-energy systems by applying engineering solutions in
      partnership with colleagues across the sciences and humanities.
   3. To capitalize on major investments in the current period including MECD, Royce, and high-
      performance computing by expanding interdisciplinary research and its enabling
      infrastructure.
   4. To widen impact by cultivating long-term strategic relationships with regional, national, and
      global engineering stakeholders.
                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Objectives for our thematic areas follow:
Advanced Materials and Processes
We will exploit our investment in advanced materials (including in Royce, NGI, and PSI) and
improve pathways from fundamental research to full-scale applications.
      We will create multidisciplinary teams from engineering to economics to produce new
       materials for a sustainable future, drawing on Tyndall Manchester and MERI. We will
       achieve increased lifetimes with e.g. corrosion control, greener precursors, more energy-
       efficient processing, easier recycling, and less environmental damage.
      We will take a multidisciplinary approach to complex, engineering challenges, such as the
       transition to a hydrogen economy, by better understanding metal embrittlement, catalysts,
       and transport in nanoporous materials.
      We will expand our involvement in computational platforms. We will make greater use of
       machine learning, expert systems, and data mining to optimize materials performance and
       endurance limits. We will coordinate processing and applications across whole life cycles,
       exemplified by closed-loop use of light alloys.
      We aim with regional government to deliver on the Greater Manchester Local Industrial
       Strategy to establish an Advanced Materials/Manufacturing Alliance. We will continue to
       develop our national engagement with DEFRA, BEIS, and HMRC.
Bioengineering
We will promote activities that span bioengineering, biomanufacturing, biomechanics, biomaterials,
and biomedical devices and monitoring. In particular, we will leverage the MIB, co-locate
researchers, and establish new facilities within MECD to support our growth in health-related
engineering.
      We will take advantage of the devolution of NHS healthcare budgets in the Manchester
       metropolitan area. We will work with clinicians to inform our research direction and improve
       exploitation through the TAI (§1f.1), Health Innovation Manchester, and the ERDF
       Research and Innovation Health Accelerator.
      We will advance our work in pharma, including manufacturing biologics
       (biopharmaceuticals, cell and gene therapies), optimizing formulation technologies,
       sensors, and drug-delivery systems.
Energy
We will continue to deliver research helping to ensure safe and affordable energy while eliminating
greenhouse gas emissions. MECD presents a unique opportunity to bring together researchers
from different disciplines including climate change, energy supply (fission, fusion, solar, wind, bio,
tidal, and wave), also power systems, energy storage, transport, materials light weighting,
infrastructure, energy demand, negative emissions technologies, and energy policy.
      We will work with the Greater Manchester Energy Innovation Agency to deliver research
       across the areas of climate change, energy systems, and transport to accelerate our
       transition to net zero and beyond, supporting our regional partners in creating sustainable
       industries and jobs.
      We will apply our research expertise in subsurface engineering to energy system
       transitions, the subsurface in energy storage (compressed air, hydrogen, thermal) and in
       nuclear-energy schemes.
      We will focus on delivering catalytic science and engineering coupled with process
       engineering to address the Government's goal of reaching net zero by 2050. This will be
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       part of a UK wide initiative through the UK Catalysis Hub (§1c.3), which will shape the
       future for catalysis for several decades.
      We will determine how future nuclear provision will affect the energy system transition when
       deployed with other maturing technologies e.g. large-scale tidal and wave energy systems.
      We will address how policy, regulation, and business-model innovation can expedite energy
       system transition and identify routes to societal acceptance of new technologies. We will
       collaborate with policy@manchester (REF5a §2.iv) and support the TAI (§1f.1) in areas
       such as safe operation of offshore energy assets.
Environment
We will apply engineering solutions to further address UN sustainability goals. We will foster
enhanced interdisciplinary research through MECD and by stronger interactions with natural
sciences, humanities, and health researchers.
      We will enhance engineering for the environment and our engagement with relevant policy
       and society.
      We will work through MERI (§1f.1) to identify challenges and engineering solutions and
       through Royce and NGI (§1f.1) to advance materials approaches, e.g. membrane
       technologies for clean air and water.
      We will exploit opportunities to integrate our approaches in anticipation of Government
       prioritizing links between energy and environment.
Integrated Systems
We will build on our investments in robotics, autonomous systems, and AI.
      We will strengthen our collaboration in Cumbria with Sellafield Ltd, the Nuclear
       Decommissioning Authority (NDA), NNL, and UK Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA) to
       deliver new robotics and AI technology into the decommissioning sector. With UKAEA, we
       will develop remote handling systems for the UK’s next generation of fusion reactors
       (STEP) and advanced modular fission reactors (AMRs).
      We will integrate UoM’s autonomous systems, robotics, and AI communities, and establish
       a robotics hub in MECD. With investments in this Unit and in Computer Science, we will
       increase collaboration between the Faculty’s 50 researchers in these areas to expand
       applications, e.g. to autonomous flight technology, biomimetics, and micro-robots, with
       potential impact in aerospace, hydrodynamics, and healthcare.
      We will further integrate research on AI, Control, and Software Engineering in our
       Computational Modelling Theme (§1c.3), incorporating societal benefits of trustworthiness,
       security, and sustainability.
1e. Enabling research impact
Impact is enabled through support, funding, and staff-development mechanisms. This section
describes the first two mechanisms and their relationship, summarized in Figure 2, to our 13 ICSs
selected for submission. Staff development is discussed in Section 2.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2. Enabling mechanisms supporting the submitted Impact Case Studies.
                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1e.1 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAAs)
Our dedicated University Knowledge Exchange team work closely with staff and companies to
establish KTPs. UoM held the highest number in GB at the census date, with 42 KTPs over the
period supported by £4m from companies. The ICS with Cygnet-Texkimp (Potluri) exemplifies how
KTPs enable transfer of trained engineers and experience to generate new products. Our 118
EPSRC IAA projects (£4.1m EPSRC, £2.6m company contribution) have spanned all company
sizes (38% SME, 62% Large) and enabled EPSRC research to create impact. For example, IAA
funding underpinned Tyndall Manchester’s two ICSs (Larkin, McLachlan). Another IAA led to
CARMA, the first autonomous nuclear decommissioning robot installed at Sellafield and identified
as a world-leading technology in the Government's 2020 R&D roadmap
(https://www.gov.uk/government/news/government-fires-up-rd-across-the-country-to-cement-the-
uk-as-science-superpower). A KTP project with Nuvia aims to commercialize CARMA.

1e.2 Building long-term strategic relationships
Opportunities and relations are targeted through dedicated support for business engagement
(§1e.2) including an Associate Dean, professional service (PS) managers for key companies, and
six Faculty academic champions (five within the Unit) to encourage cross-Faculty solutions.
Departments have External Advisory Groups, comprising senior industrial staff from a range of
companies who advise on industrial direction.
The UoM professional Business Engagement (BE) team (REF5a §4.1) supports growth sectors,
providing a single point for commercial project research enquires which they pass on to
academics, guiding the relationship to contract and project start. For example, since the NGI
opened in 2015, the 2D materials BE team has handled ~1,500 enquires and supported ~70
projects, leading to >£12m of industrial contracts (e.g. Petronas, Sony, Tetra Pak).
With BE’s support, staff cultivated long-term relationships with Governmental and industrial
partners (e.g. AkzoNobel, Airbus, AstraZeneca, BAE Systems, BP, EDF, Infineum, NG, Petronas,
Rolls-Royce, and Unilever), delivering against joint industrial and UKRI funding within framework
agreements. For example, our strategic relationships with NG since 2003 led to Rowland’s and Z.
Wang’s ICSs, and Xiao’s 22 year-long collaboration with Rolls-Royce to his ICS.
Our Prosperity Partnerships (§3a.3) are both an outcome of our long-term relationships and an
enabler of their continuation.

1e.3 IP generation: patents and spin-outs
The UoM Innovation Factory (UMIF) provides guidance on IP including contract negotiations,
protection, and exploitation. UMIF was restructured within the period by assigning IP scouts to
particular research fields to identify, assess, and protect inventions more quickly. UMIF supports
patenting (101 patent families) and licensing (e.g. 2D Tech, Inov8). Alternatively, staff can spin-out
their research. Within period they launched 15 companies (AEH Innovative Hydrogel, Atomic
Mechanics, Fotenix, Grafine, Holiferm, ICE-9, LIG Nanowise, Manchester Biogel, Manchester
Robotics, Molymem, Nanoplexus, Pentabee, Signal Wizard Systems, SmartIR, and StreamBio).
UMIF offers support to these spin-outs, including pump-priming (e.g. £275k to MolyMem in 2019),
fund-raising, attracting board members, and business-case development.

1e.4 Policy and governments
We have worked closely with policy makers and governments to create economic, health, and
environmental impact. Policy@Manchester (REF5a §2.iv) has cooperated with the Unit to produce
                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reports on energy, net zero, AI, and robotics, and to engage in events such as panels with MPs at
UK party conferences and receptions in the House of Commons. Policy@Manchester has
supported academic workshops on working with parliamentarians and civil servants.
The Tyndall Centre’s explicit policy-relevant remit underpins the continuing relationship with policy
and industry stakeholders, supported by a full-time Knowledge Exchange Fellow. Outcomes
include ICSs on shipping and aviation climate-change reduction (Larkin), local-authority policy and
climate change (McLachlan), and a sustainable low-carbon UK bioenergy sector (Welfle).

1e.5 Interdisciplinary networking through institutes
Solutions to real-world problems, and thus impact, often require a multidisciplinary approach.
Benefits from our interdisciplinary networks and institutes are discussed in §1f.
1f. Interdisciplinary research
Interdisciplinarity is intrinsic to our engineering Research Themes (Figure 1) but collaboration
beyond the Unit is essential to success. Some larger interdisciplinary projects are these:
      The Centre in Advanced Fluid Engineering for Digital Manufacturing (CAFE4DM, Prosperity
       Partnership, §3a.3), which involves the Unit, Chemistry, the Business School, the Dalton
       Nuclear Institute (DNI), MIB, Unilever, and Cambridge University (Mathematics).
      The TORONE project (§3a.2), which involves the Unit, NNL, and Digital Electronics at
       Lancaster University.
      The EPSRC Supergen Hubs (§1c.3), comprising Bio-energy, Energy Systems, and
       Offshore Renewable Energy.
      The FutureDAMS project (§3a.2), which involves the Unit in water-energy engineering,
       economics, food security, climate change, finance, and ecology.
Our interdisciplinary collaborations are targeted strategically, aided by Research Institutes and
Centres, interdisciplinary PhDs, joint appointments, and networking activity, as follows.

1f.1 Research Institutes and Centres
The UoM Research Institute (UMRI) governs and helps develop UoM’s interdisciplinary Research
Institutes and Platforms, which along with Centres bring together academic teams across the
Faculties to address key challenges. Institutes and Centres cut across Research Themes, as
shown in Figure 3. They are launched with either University seed-corn funding or strategic external
grants. For example, the TAI was pump-primed through UMRI with £240k, resulting in a Lloyd’s
Register Foundation 5-year funded programme (£1.1m). The GEIC was funded with £15m from
HEFCE RPIF, £30m from Masdar (UAE company), and £5m from Innovate UK.
The Institutes and Centres relevant to the Unit and its interdisciplinary activities are as follows:
      Henry Royce Institute (Chief Scientist Withers). UoM led the bid for Royce with six other
       University partners. The bid capitalized on UoM’s success in advanced materials, especially
       in 2D materials research, its characterization equipment bids (RPIF, £17m, 2013 and
       ONSIDE, £4.3m, 2013), and bp-ICAM. The peer-reviewed award resulted in UoM hosting
       the national hub (EPSRC £46m equipment, £105m estate) with other partners as spokes.
       Royce provides a national focus in advanced materials with UoM leading the 2D Materials,
       Biomedical Materials, Materials for Demanding Environments, Nuclear Materials themes,
       and other partners leading Advanced Materials Processing (Sheffield), Atoms to Devices
       (Leeds/Imperial College), Energy Storage (Oxford), and Materials for Energy Efficient ICT
       (Cambridge).
                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 3. Interactions between Research Institutes and Centres and the Unit’s Research
Themes.


      BP International Centre for Advanced Materials (Director Matthews, then Haigh). bp-
       ICAM brings together capabilities from BP and four leading universities with UoM as the
       hub and the Universities of Cambridge, Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and Imperial College
       as the spokes. It was founded in 2012 and renewed in March 2020 to 2027 with the
       Centre’s focus moved from fossil fuels to renewables. Over fifteen years, BP and UoM have
       invested £18.7m and £6.5m respectively in bp-ICAM at UoM.
      National Graphene Institute. NGI acts in a hub-and-spoke model for 2D material groups
       at UK universities, cooperating with institutions overseas and engaging with businesses
       (§4a.3). It houses 110 researchers from physics, chemistry, life sciences, electrical
       engineering, and materials to develop the fundamental science and engineering of 2D
       materials.
      Graphene Engineering and Innovation Centre (Acting Chief Scientific Officer Sampson).
       GEIC opened in 2018 to accelerate the application of 2D materials from TRL3 to TRL5
       (§3b.1) through its industrial partners, spin-outs, and University academic expertise.
      Thomas Ashton Institute (Co-Director Bourne). TAI established in 2018 brings together
       UoM and the Health and Safety Executive to deliver research, learning, and regulatory
       insights for a better working world.


                                                                                       Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Dalton Nuclear Institute (Associate Director Taylor). DNI is the largest nuclear academic
       community in the UK which, uniquely, covers the whole nuclear fuel cycle. The DNI
       coordinated the GREEN CDT and four successful University-led capital bids (£15m) across
       three of UoM’s submitted Units. Its staff sat on >7 Government advisory committees.
      Manchester Environment Research Institute (Theme Leads T. Foster, Grieve, Lea-
       Langton). MERI was launched in 2018 to integrate cross-University research and promote
       inter-disciplinary environmental research. MERI is associated with 716 academics, 157 in
       this Unit.
      Manchester Institute of Biotechnology. MIB has expertise in industrial biotechnology and
       is helping to further the UK’s strategic development of biomanufacturing, specifically in the
       areas of pharmaceuticals, value-added chemicals, advanced materials, and next-
       generation biofuels. Seven of its 40 academics are in this Unit.
      Photon Science Institute (Director Curry). PSI delivers high quality fundamental and
       applied research in materials, devices, and spectroscopy, providing underpinning University
       capability in advanced materials, energy, industrial biotechnology, and cancer. It has ~100
       resident researchers and >250 regular University users from four submitted Units. It
       operates several national research facilities (NRF) including the EPSRC National EPR
       service, the HMXIF/XCT, XPS, and SIMS capability, and forms part of UoM’s contribution to
       Royce. In 2020, we were selected to host the hub of the new EPSRC £10m NRF for
       Laboratory X-ray Computed Tomography.
      Tyndall Manchester (Director McClachlan). Tyndall Manchester is a founding partner in
       the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research and hosted the Tyndall Centre
       directorship 2018-19. Its expertise forms one strand of the training for the GREEN CDT. A
       focus has been sustainable water and the management of energy-water-food systems,
       enabled by the FutureDAMS project (§3a.2).

1f.2 Interdisciplinary PhDs
Our PGR strategy engenders interdisciplinarity, with co-supervision across disciplines stimulating
collaboration between academics. The NoWNANO CDT (with Lancaster) and Advanced
Biomedical Materials CDT (with Sheffield) supervise biology, medicine, and engineering students,
with NoWNANO requiring PhD supervisory teams from two different disciplines. Cross-Faculty
PGR studentships were enabled through the EPSRC and MRC CDT in Regenerative Medicine.
Our BBSRC DTP allocations led to eight projects with the Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health
on biofluids, engineered spiral grafts, tissue engineering, drug delivery, and bio-sensors.
The PhD scholarships listed in §2b.2 encouraged cross-disciplinary research, with 13 PhDs since
2018 joint between the Unit and Chemistry and Earth & Environmental Sciences (EES). PhD
project funding schemes also enabled access to national facilities at the Diamond Light Source
(DLS) with projects on imaging in Materials and Modelling.

1f.3 Joint appointments
Investment in early career staff, including 19 UoM-funded fellowships, has been a priority in the
REF period (§2a), with cross-disciplinary working a criterion in the assessment process.
Appointments include five fellows collaborating with the DLS Facility, providing a bridge between
fundamental science and engineering. Cross-departmental appointments and transfers have been
made to facilitate collaborations and realize strategic objectives. A split appointment between the
Unit and Chemistry and EES, led to the GREEN CDT (Heath). Other joint appointments include


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ones with Computer Science (robotics), Mathematics (modelling), and Physics and Astronomy
(graphene).

1f.4 Networking activity
To support future interdisciplinary activities, UoM provides seed funding of typically £200-300k for
each network, for example:
      Industry 4.0 Innovation Lab is a collaboration in Advanced Materials and Processes
       between the Unit, Alliance Manchester Business School (AMBS), and the School of
       Environment, Education and Development to co-ordinate strategy and structure industry
       engagement.
      Advanced Materials in Medicine initiates, facilitates, and supports cross-Faculty activities to
       enhance collaboration in the area between FBMH and FSE, including biomaterials,
       bioelectronics, nanomedicine, and tissue engineering. Through workshops, awareness of
       funding calls and advice, it supported six grants (£8.6m), including the Advanced
       Biomedical Materials CDT.
1g. Open Research environment
We follow UoM policy on creating an open research environment (REF5a §4.3), detailed in its
Position Statement on Open Research, in particular, transparency in research methodology, public
availability and reusability of research data and code, and public accessibility and transparency of
research communication. UoM’s Open Research forum includes seven members from this Unit.

1g.1 Open Access publishing
Open Access is supported by UoM’s research information system and publications repository
PURE and the web-based Open Access Gateway, which verifies manuscript versions, checks
journal and funder policies, and sets embargo periods on publication and support for Gold Open
Access when not available from external funders. ORCID registration is required for all
researchers. Open Access compliance is monitored by the Library with feedback to Directors of
Research and REF Output Champions. Of our REF2021 outputs submitted, 98.4% were compliant.

1g.2 Open Research environment: data and software
Open research and reproducibility are incorporated into PGR and ECR training. For research
proposals, the Library offers comprehensive support with outline checks or full reviews of data-
management plans to ensure compliance with standards. UoM provides a repository for publishing
data (Mendeley data, then Figshare) with DOIs.
In some projects we have made available freeware routines to help usage. Funded by EPSRC
project LightForm, Fonseca’s team created software for running reproducible workflows, whose
outputs can be automatically uploaded to data repositories (https://github.com/LightForm-
group/matflow).

1g.3 Research integrity
UoM’s Code of Good Research Conduct sets out our commitment to research integrity, along with
the Code of Practice for Investigating Concerns about the Conduct of Research.
Online Research Integrity training was established in 2016. This course resulted in high levels of
awareness of codes for good research conduct (77% University staff respondents) and University


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ethical review processes (76%), with 83% of respondents agreeing that UoM supports a culture of
ethical research.
Concordat. Complying with the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, all research-active
staff and PGR students take UoM’s Research Integrity course (REF5a §2.v). Completion is
monitored, with success necessary for staff to apply for research funding or supervise PhD
students.
Ethical approval. Research Ethics Committees (REC) are in place across the Institution, reporting
to the University REC. Departmental Leads act as gateways to procedures.
Export controls and NDAs. Effort has been invested in raising awareness among staff of their
obligations to comply with export controls on data. All staff completed a training session on the
implications of export controls for data management. The central legal team coordinates NDAs and
data-sharing contracts.




                                                                                         Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
2a Staffing strategy and staff development
Our staffing strategy is guided by UoM’s strategic plan and commitment to the Researcher
Development Concordat (§2a.3 and REF5a, §3.3.2). The intention is to provide a creative,
ambitious, and supportive environment in which researchers, at every career stage, can progress
into and succeed as leaders in their chosen fields.

2a.1 Recruitment
We have had a natural turnover of staff with most leaving for senior roles in other institutions,
industry, or retirement. The Unit return comprised 112 professors, 36 readers, 67 senior lecturers,
81 lecturers, 3 senior research fellows, and 27 research fellows. Recruitment processes have been
refined and improved in response to monitoring equality, diversity, inclusivity, and accessibility
(EDIA) (§2c).
In the period over 23 professors, 7 senior lecturers, 56 lecturers, and 22 research fellows were
recruited internationally.
Highlights of our recruitment within the REF period include the following, grouped by Research
Theme (§1c.3). Delivery of REF2014 goals are indicated.
Advanced Materials and Processes
      To develop engineering applications in 2D Materials (REF2014), two professorial fellows
       were appointed, Nair as Royal Society University Research Fellow (RSURF) in membranes
       and Koskun ERC Fellow in electro-optical materials, and six ECRs: Lewis in 2D materials
       production, Gorgojo membranes, Bissett energy, Barg porous materials, Vallés
       composites, and Kretinin thermoelectrics (with Physics and Astronomy). R. Young took
       partial retirement.
      To support Photonic and Quantum Devices (REF2014) with retirement of Hamilton, Curry
       was appointed to provide leadership as Director of PSI, Boland and Echtermeyer as
       Lecturers, and Illes-Smith as Research Fellow.
      To underpin characterization infrastructure investments (§3b.1) and new in-situ and in-
       operando approaches, ECR appointments included Eggeman (RSURF), tomography
       expert Burnett, and NanoSIMs leader Moore. At UoMaH (§3b.4), P Lee (now UCL) and
       Bourne were appointed and seven research fellows, Eastwood, Hunt, Mirihanage, Yan,
       Khan, Ma and Parlett. NMR expertise was strengthened with Lecturers D’Agostino and D.
       Lee, helping to secure Tier 1 membership of UK analytical measurement science
       community (CAMS-UK).
      In Corrosion and Wear (REF2014), Matthews was appointed as Director of bp-ICAM
       (§4a.3) with Haigh assuming Directorship at period end. Yerokhin was appointed Lecturer
       as part of the long-term succession plan. Mingo received a Presidential Fellowship to
       develop new corrosion control mechanisms.
      In Advanced Manufacturing, our move into Industry 4.0 and Smart Manufacturing was
       accelerated by ECR appointments: Bryan in responsive manufacturing systems, Kilic
       in digital manufacturing, and Y. Wang to a Chair in Smart Manufacturing as part of
       succession planning for Hinduja.
Bioengineering
      To expand Bioengineering capability (REF2014) with leadership in biomanufacturing,
       Bartolo was appointed Professor, alongside ECRs Domingo and Weightman. Biomimcry
                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       was established with Research Fellow Parry, Lecturer Nabawy, and PDRA-to-Lecturer
       Parslew.
      Continuing to build capacity and research quality (REF2014), Biomaterials gained two
       Research Fellows, Jones and Parry, and two Lecturers, Blaker and Tsigkou, after Merry
       left for Readership at Nottingham. Biomechanics was strengthened with recruitment of
       Lecturer Cooper.
      To give future research direction in Industrial Biotechnology (REF2014), Dickson
       transferred as Professor from the Faculty of Life Sciences and Anastasiou was appointed
       Lecturer, mitigating the retirement of Mavituna and Webb, and departures of Campbell
       and Westerhoff to Chair positions at Bradford and Amsterdam.
      To strengthen crystallization research and plan succession for the retirement of Davey,
       Vetter was appointed RAEng Industrial Fellow and Cabeza RS Industry Fellow.
Energy
      To reinforce our leading position and develop new areas in power systems, Jarman was
       appointed as Professor, Iacchetti, Parisio, L. Chen, C. Zhang, and Ponocko as
       Lecturers, and Martínez Ceseña as Research Fellow. Z. Wang left to become Pro-Vice-
       Chancellor and Executive Dean, Exeter University, B. Wen moved to Virginia Tech, USA,
       and Todd died in service.
      International collaborations were furthered (REF2014) through Mancarella and Ochoa’s
       professorial appointments joint with Melbourne.
      To consolidate and develop research in nuclear engineering (REF2014), six ECRs were
       appointed, Turner, Vaseliou, Harrison, Leay, Theodosiou and Atas. Expertise in thermal
       hydraulics was expanded with Cioncolini as Senior Lecturer. Taylor was appointed
       Professor in Nuclear Energy Systems to lead on engineering and social science aspects of
       nuclear energy.
      To expand offshore renewable energy research (REF2014), Draycott was appointed as
       Dame Kathleen Ollerenshaw Fellow.
      To respond to priorities of a low-carbon economy, Parkes was appointed Ekpe Fellow in
       climate impacts, Hoolohan Presidential Fellow and Sharmina Lecturer in Tyndall
       Manchester.
      To create a critical mass in catalysis, Hardacre was appointed Professor, Parlett as
       Research Fellow, and Spallina, Fan, and Perez-Page as Lecturers.
Environment
      In Environmental Engineering, research in geotechnical and water engineering (REF2014)
       was reinvigorated with appointment of Professor Harou, Presidential Fellow Ma, and two
       Lecturers Bottacin-Busolin and T. Foster. In geoenvironmental engineering three ECRs
       were appointed, Lombardi, Sedighi, and Syed, and in geological sequestration Hadi-
       Mosleh as Lecturer.
      To establish leadership in Circular Economy, including in Royce, Shaver was appointed
       Professor in polymers following retirement of Lovell. Cuellar-Franca and Stamford were
       appointed Lecturers in life-cycle analysis and Gallego-Schmid as Lecturer in Tyndall
       Manchester. To develop capacity in infrastructure materials, Su and A. Foster were
       appointed as Lecturers, following departure of Gillie for a Chair at Warwick, and as
       succession planning for Bell.



                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Integrated Systems
      To consolidate and advance research in aerospace (REF2014), Bojdo and Quinn (formerly
       PDRAs) were appointed to new Lectureships and Roberts to a Lectureship in space
       technologies.
      Z.-G. Ding was appointed to a Chair to provide new leadership in communications and 5G
       systems, replacing Brown and Rezazadeh on retirement and Sloan who became CEO
       Microwave Inspection Technologies. Wright and O’Toole joined as Lecturers replacing
       Armitage on retirement and Duff who joined Semtech.
      Responding to advances and an increased focus in robotics, Herrmann was appointed as
       Professor and Arvin and Watson as Lecturers, following retirement of Gray and Oakley
       and departure of McCormick for BAE Systems.
      Kiss was recruited as Professor to provide leadership in process integration, as R. Smith
       approached retirement, and J. Li as Lecturer. L. Zhang was appointed Lecturer to
       strengthen control systems, replacing H. Wang who became Senior Distinguished R&D
       Staff, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA.
Computational Modelling
      To improve engineering analysis through large scale computational modelling (REF2014),
       Borodin was appointed Research Fellow in solid mechanics, Lazarov as Senior Lecturer,
       who after departure was replaced by Darvizeh as Lecturer in solid mechanics. Lind and
       Fourtakas were appointed as Lecturers in SPH, and De Rosis and Keshmiri as Lecturers
       in complex flows and biofluids engineering.
      Sarkisov was appointed as Professor to enhance multiscale modelling.
From Lecturer level onwards, all our category A research-related staff are on open-ended
contracts. Most of our research fellows will move, or have moved, onto open-ended contracts at
the end of their fellowship.
PDRAs. Within period 678 PDRAs were recruited to the Unit, with 252 in place at period end. In
2018, University policy and process were adapted to allow all research staff with four years’
continuous service to transfer to open-ended contracts. Fixed-term contracts are still used for
research staff with less than four years’ continuous service. We have no zero-hours contracts.
Supporting positions. Researchers’ teaching responsibilities were lightened by the recruitment of
15 teaching-focused posts, and support for impact included the appointment of C. Jones as a
Knowledge Exchange Fellow in Tyndall Manchester.

2a.2 Staff development
We follow UoM policy in staff development (REF5a §3.1). Training and development opportunities
for academics, ECRs, and PDRAs are provided through Faculty central professional services and
the Library, with courses including Career Management, Wellbeing, and Leadership & Strategy. In
2017-18, 120 staff from the Unit participated in these courses.
Annual Performance and Development Reviews (P&DRs) with trained reviewers are encouraged
and offered to all staff, but complying with local Union agreement, are not compulsory. The P&DR
covers routes to promotion, training opportunities, and development objectives. The effectiveness
of the P&DR is evidenced in the 2019 CAPITA University Staff Survey, with 398 academics and
researchers from the Unit participating: 95% of participants reported that the process had given
them clear objectives and 82% engaged in work-related training in the previous year.


                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff are encouraged to have a mentor in addition to their line manager, and for academic
probationers a mentor is mandatory. The Manchester Gold Mentoring Programme links staff to
more experienced colleagues.
New academics and research fellows. The New Academics Programme (NAP) delivers training
on teaching, research, social responsibility, and professional development. The NAP includes
research structures, strategy, data management, funding, and research proposals, managing a
group, supporting postgraduate researchers, EDIA, export controls, knowledge transfer, IP,
generating impact, and publication strategies (within UoM’s commitment to DORA, journal-based
metrics are used to inform researchers, but not determine, where to publish for maximum impact).
In the period, 142 staff from the Unit completed the NAP.
Newly appointed staff are set challenging probationary objectives for their probation period by line
managers including completion of the NAP, with fairness of objectives across Departments
ensured by a NAP Senior Mentor and HoD. Performance against the objectives, including
approving the completion of probation, is reviewed at an annual Personnel Committee meeting. In
the rare cases where insufficient progress is made, further training and mentoring is immediately
put in place.
Mid-career academics. Mentoring and support is provided to help staff lead large collaborative
grant proposals and to apply for prestigious grants and fellowships. Staff are encouraged to take
research leadership positions (e.g. PGR Director) to broaden experience for future promotion. Our
strong mentoring of staff is highlighted by REF2014 ECRs being appointed to professorships in this
period, e.g. Haigh in characterization, Kinloch in nanomaterials, Nair in materials physics, and
Engelberg in corrosion.
Senior Staff. UoM’s leadership programme Inspiring Leaders (launched in 2019) blends
acquisition of knowledge with the opportunity to collaborate with peers to improve leadership skills.
The programme leads to an ILM Level 5 Award in Middle Management. In the Unit, 55 staff
participated in 2019-20.
Wellbeing framework. In addition to UoM-level provision (REF5a §3.1), multipurpose wellbeing
rooms have been established to support breast-feeding and those who need to manage health
conditions or need a quiet space. Coffee mornings have been organized to encourage interaction
across Departments and social gatherings, including walking lunches and casual and sporting
events, to promote a healthy work-life balance. Local bespoke wellbeing days have been held
yearly for staff. Dedicated wellbeing courses included Imposter Syndrome, Resilience, Wellbeing
through Change, and Working Remotely. A range of options is available for flexible working, leave,
and return from leave (§2c).
COVID-19. Along with the support described in the Institutional COVID Annex, affected
probationers were given an extra probationary year. To help maintain the Departmental social
fabric, Zoom coffee mornings and Friday 4 pm social events were introduced.

2a.3 Support for ECRs
We build on UoM policy (REF5a §3.3.2) with actions measured against UoM’s Concordat Action
Plan, Staff Survey Action Plan for research staff, and Research Staff Culture Surveys, modelled on
the Welcome Survey and the CEDARS survey from Vitae®. UoM held its European Commission
HR Excellence in Research Award throughout the REF period (renewed 2020). Staff awareness of
the Concordat is developed online, through local presentations to staff and PGRs.



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ECR fellowships
UoM invests in three early career fellowship schemes to support outstanding ECRs, including
PDRAs, to build an academic career:
      Presidential Fellowships attract the best ECRs with a growing research reputation,
       regardless of discipline, who move into permanent academic positions after five years. The
       Unit was awarded five: Mingo, Hoolohan, Hunt, Ma, and Iles-Smith.
      Dame Kathleen Ollerenshaw Fellowships (DKOFs), established in the Faculty to support
       diversity, attract creative and ambitious candidates who also move into permanent
       academic positions after five years. Through the scheme we have refined our recruitment
       processes to ensure a diverse application pool. Since 2018, eligibility is no longer restricted
       by years of post-doctoral experience or whether the applicant already holds a permanent
       academic position. The Unit was awarded three DKOFs: Jones, Ouro, and Draycott.
      Dame Kathleen Lonsdale Fellowships (DKLFs) attract exceptional candidates who would
       benefit from flexible development opportunities. DKLFs last five-years and are supported by
       bp-ICAM, providing salaries, research expenses, and £25k flexible funding (e.g.
       sabbaticals, secondments, funds for childcare or caregiving when attending conferences,
       and special support in managing disability or health issues). The Unit was awarded two
       female DKLFs: Parry and Joss.
Other 5-year research fellowships have been used to advance strategic areas:
      UoM at Harwell (UoMaH) Research Fellows provide an interface between researchers at
       UoM and the national facilities at Harwell, such as DLS. UoM fully funds Hunt, Mirihanage
       and Yan; Eastwood and Parlett are co-funded by DLS and Khan is co-funded by STFC.
      Department-funded research fellowships supporting RAEng Research Chairs are held by
       Chen, Shanthraj, and Vallés.
All ECR fellows are given support in writing applications and interview preparation. Some
fellowships require an internal selection process where applicants receive feedback before
submission.
Other externally funded ECR fellowship successes in the period include these:
      RSURF (Eggeman, transferred from Cambridge, Nair, Race),
      EPSRC ECRF (Jivkov, Saiani)
      Leverhulme Trust ECRF (O’Toole)
      NERC Fellowship (Ma)
      UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Boland)
      ETI-EPSRC David Clarke Fellowship (Williams)
      Royal Commission of 1851 Research Fellowship (Iles-Smith, transferred from Sheffield)
New academic appointees. New Lecturers typically receive a £10-20k start-up fund to cover
consumables, travel to conferences, and establishing collaborations. A DTA PhD studentship or
equivalent is provided to help support their independent research. Shared academic group
laboratories allow access to well-found resources and a chance to interact. Appointees to
lectureships have a reduced teaching load during their probationary period. All new academics
have an academic mentor as well as a line manager (§2a.2).
PDRAs. PDRAs are given the same opportunities as academics with PD&Rs and training, with a
recommendation of 10 days/year spent on professional development in the courses mentioned in


                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
§2a.2. PDRAs are encouraged to participate in supervising taught students, training PGRs, and co-
chairing research meetings.
Monthly business-engagement lunch-hour sessions, where former PDRAs in industry and spin-
outs discuss alternative career paths, were organized for PDRAs/PGRs by the Faculty (35
attendees per session). The Masood Entrepreneurship Centre (part of the UoM’s Business School,
REF5a §4.1) provided training in the period to 91 PDRAs/PGRs from the Unit with a focus on
Innovation & Commercialization of Research. There were 221 participants in the Centre’s extra-
curricular programmes.
Departmental and Faculty PDRA forums enabled PDRAs to participate in University strategy, raise
issues, and organize their own community meetings. PDRAs also had dedicated quarterly open
meetings with Faculty leadership with typical attendance of 140.
With the COVID-19 pandemic, the Faculty Researcher Development Team provided >100 one-to-
one sessions with PDRAs for career, CV, and interview advice in preparation for a potentially
challenging post-COVID-19 job market.

2a.4 Sabbatical leave and fellowships
All academics can apply for leave to initiate or complete an ambitious programme of research or
impact activities (REF5a §3.3.1). Sabbaticals are awarded in response to an application detailing a
research plan, including international visits and funding sources, its strategic benefit, and capacity
to cover other responsibilities. In the period, ~40 members of the Unit took academic leave for 6-12
months e.g. L. Li to consolidate Laser Processing research, Rogers to develop research on
Smooth Particle Hydrodynamics, Anderson to focus on Climate Change, Davey to take visiting
positions at Jülich and Uppsala, and Winterburn to start the spin-out Holiferm. Anderson’s work
had multiple impacts, including an invited one-to-one meeting with EC President’s Climate Advisor
Vandenberghe, advice to UK MPs and Scottish Government, and carbon budget projects for other
nations (§4a).
Academic staff are encouraged and mentored to apply for fellowships and grants with significant
dedicated research time, with successes including Boland (Future Leaders Fellowship), EPSRC
Established Fellowship for Saunders, and ERC Starter Grants for Haigh and Nair.
2a.5 Exchanges between academia and business
Our strategic commitment to external collaborations for impact is supported through several
channels. In addition to sabbaticals, academics can divide their time between the University and
their spin-outs (e.g. Miller for BIOGEL). Cotton served on the Technical Advisory Board for the
NG Deeside Innovation Centre and was seconded to the company for 12 months to provide
specialist engineering support. Aided by ESRC IAA support, Mander was seconded to a BEIS
Select Committee. Funded by an NWO Fellowship (Dutch Research Council), van Silfhout was
seconded to ESRF (Grenoble, France) to lead 12 researchers and technicians in research with
DUBBLE@ESRF small-angle X-ray scattering and spectroscopy facilities. Carrasco’s sabbatical
was at the Robotics Applications in Challenging Environments group at UKAEA. Cabeza was
awarded a Royal Society Industry Fellowship with AstraZeneca, allowing long-term collaborative
links to be built during the 4-year placement, and Vetter was awarded an RAEng Industrial
Fellowship.
KTPs (§1e.1) enable researchers to split their time between the University and a company. Our 42
KTPs included B&M, Cobra Biologics, Extronics, Pilot Group, P&G, Superglass, and Cygnet-
Texkimp.

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Industry has also embedded researchers directly in the Unit (e.g. Sony, FEI Colloids), enabling
collaboration and transfer of technology. Burnett was originally an FEI employee developing
tomography equipment on campus before joining UoM as a Lecturer, then Director of the Henry
Moseley X-ray Imaging Facility.
Split-site PhDs have enabled company employees to work towards their doctorate in both the Unit
and company research laboratories (Morgan Advanced Materials, Petronas, Solvay). Students can
study either full or part time and have both Unit and company supervisors.
Staff exchanges occur beyond industry. Vijayaraghavan was awarded a British Science
Association Media Fellowship in 2017 and George presented television programmes, four for BBC
Four, two for BBC Two, and one for BBC One North West (§4a.5).

2a.6 Recognition and reward for research and impact
Departments review staff each year and consider whether to encourage them to apply for
promotion. Departmental promotion committees hold informal reviews of all cases and provide
feedback through line managers to refine submissions before formal review.
UoM’s promotion criteria explicitly include Academic Enterprise & Knowledge Transfer with equal
parity with Research. They consider career breaks, parental and carer leave, and part-time working
(§2a.2), and from 2021 factors related to COVID-19. In the period, there were 193 promotions
within the Unit, with an increase in applicants’ success rate from 39% to 70%, attributed to
improved mentoring and guidance.
UoM contracts allow staff to earn royalties from IP licensees and shares in spin-outs, incentivizing
impact (§1e). Along with sabbatical leave (§2a.4) and opportunities for exchanges and
secondments, in our work-allocation model up to 15% academic time and up to six months PDRA
funding is given to academics to help develop impact.
2b. Postgraduate research students
The Unit had 2,823 PGR students during the period and 1,460 graduations. The PGR training and
recruitment strategy is guided by the Departmental Director of PGR and the Faculty Research
College under the Associate Dean for Postgraduate and ECR Development. Students’ experience
is monitored mainly through the normally biennial Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
(PRES). From the Unit, 736 students responded to the 2019 PRES. Each Department also reviews
its PGR activity annually and takes action to improve student experience.

2b.1 Recruitment
Research students are recruited through external advertising (e.g. FindAPhD.com), annual
University (and some Departmental) PGR Open Days, and by reaching out to our own taught
students. Advertisements are designed to be attractive to all potential candidates, including those
with protected characteristics. Advertisements are almost always on free-to-access platforms to
ensure global visibility (as evidenced by 1,150 international applications/year). All advertisements
state that we welcome applicants from all sections of the community and appointments are made
on merit.
All PGR interviewers complete EDI and unconscious-bias training (REF5a §3.4). The Disability
Advisory Support Service (DASS) assesses and provides support for students upon arrival,
including specialist software, furniture, and equipment. To increase EDIA support, Advanced
Biomaterials and Advanced Metallic Systems CDTs have been trialling a new structured interview


                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
process, including giving questions to candidates beforehand to help preparation and demonstrate
freedom from bias. In 2020, UoM established a PGR Widening Participation group.

2b.2 Studentships
High EPSRC income to the Unit resulted in 165 DTP studentships within period, supplemented by
11 BBSRC studentships. We led or participated in 13 CDTs including renewals, resulting in 263
studentships:
    Advanced Biomaterials CDT (lead Unit and Sheffield)
    Advanced Metallics CDT (lead Sheffield)
    Aerosol Science CDT (lead Bristol with Bath, Cambridge, Hertfordshire, Imperial and
       Leeds)
    Future Innovation in Non-Destructive Evaluation (FIND) CDT (lead Bristol with Imperial,
       Nottingham, Strathclyde and Warwick)
    Integrated Catalysis (iCAT) CDT (co-director in Unit)
    M4DE (Materials for Demanding Environments) CDT (lead Unit)
    Graphene NoWNano (lead UoM and Lancaster)
    Next Generation Nuclear CDT (lead Unit with Lancaster, Leeds, Liverpool and Sheffield)
       which was renewed as GREEN CDT (Growing Skills for Reliable Economic Energy from
       Nuclear).
    Power Networks CDT (lead Unit)
    Industrial Doctorate Centre in Quantitative Non-destructive Evaluation (NDE) (lead Bristol,
       with Imperial, Nottingham, Strathclyde, Warwick)
    EPSRC & MRC Regenerative Medicine CDT (lead Faculty of BMH)
    Science and Technology of Fusion CDT (lead York, joint with Durham, Liverpool and
       Oxford)
These CDTs leveraged additional funding with three of the CDTs requiring industry co-funding for
every studentship. Our strong links with industrial partners provided further fully-funded and UKRI-
industry-funded studentships (11 iCASE and 22 CASE top-up).
Our internationalization strategies, including academic teams visiting Chile, China, and Mexico,
attracted 1,371 registered PGRs. The quality of our international students is highlighted by funded
scholarships including CONICYT Chile, China Scholarship Council, CONACyT Mexico, Marie
Curie, Commonwealth and national government (Ecuador, Iraq, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Thailand,
and Turkey). We have 2+2 programmes with Singapore A*STAR (since 2013) and the University of
Melbourne 2+2 (launched in 2020). The UoM-funded 73 President’s and 23 Dean’s Scholarships
attract the best students worldwide.
The funding profile of 773 registered PGR students in summer 2020 across all year groups in
terms of FTE was 235 self-funded/industry funded, 210 UKRI funded (including EPSRC 107 CDT,
75 DTP and 16 iCASE), and 130 University funded (including 73 by Schools, 11 by Faculty and 24
Presidential Scholarships).

2b.3 Supervision and monitoring progress
All students are assigned a main supervisor and one or more co-supervisors. The main supervisor
is an experienced non-probationary academic, whereas the co-supervisor may be a new academic
leading a research project (NAP provides supervisor training, §2a.2). All students also have an
academic advisor outside the supervisory team for advice and pastoral support. The Departmental

                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Head of PGR also provides support and addresses issues of progress and supervision.
Departmental Student Welfare Officers deal with students’ wellbeing, including help to access
mitigating circumstances procedures, and counselling services and DASS provided by the Faculty
(§2a). Some Departments have used a PGR Buddy Scheme which pairs incoming PGRs with
senior-year PGRs, who give personal help and advice, e.g. on relocation, GP registration, and
local transport.
UoM’s electronic progression system (eProg) is used to record and track key PGR progression
milestones, including a student’s attendance, engagement, training, progress, and annual
assessment. The first-year progress report determines whether PGRs who are unlikely to complete
should withdraw at an early stage. These actions led to PGR completions within 5 years increasing
from 71% for 2010 entries, to 79% for 2014 entries, and an average completion rate of 76% for
2010-14 entrants.

2b.4 Training and support
PGRs are fully integrated with other research staff and attend and present at group and theme
seminars. Annual Departmental PGR conferences are held which all Department research staff
attend. Typically research talks are given by First- and Third-Year PGRs and posters by Second-
Year PGRs with prizes for best presentations. At the annual University Postgraduate Summer
Research Showcase, students from all Faculties present posters and participate in a 3-minute
thesis talk competition. Some CDTs hold joint conferences with their partner Universities or
synergistic CDTs (e.g NoWNANO with Cambridge’s Graphene Technology CDT.)
Departmental, Faculty, and CDT funding ensures that all students can attend at least one and
usually several international conferences during their PhD, with external funding enabling more.
An induction session for new PGRs includes talks on the structure of the PGR programme,
expectations of PGRs, rules of progression and examination, health and safety, library information
and computing resources, and opportunities for graduate teaching. PGRs have the same Faculty-
run training opportunities as other ECRs including IP support (§2a.2), with additional courses in
Academic Writing, Graduate Teaching Assistant Training, Writing up Your Thesis, and Viva
Survivor (576 students participated in 2017-18). To provide a continuing guide for PGRs and
ECRs, D. Foster authored the book A Concise Guide to Communication in Science and
Engineering (OUP, 2017/18).
The knowledge and skills training needed by PGRs is agreed with supervisors and forms part of
progression monitoring (§2b.3). To broaden their development, PGRs are encouraged to attend
other PGT and UG lectures. Our CDTs offer further specialized training, reviewed externally by
EPSRC.
Enterprise training is given by the Masood Entrepreneurship Centre through e.g. the Graphene
Hackathon, monthly lunchtime meetings, UMIF guidance, and prizes (e.g. Eli Harari Innovation
Awards).
PGRs also gain experience in wider research communication by participating in our outreach
activities (§4a).
2c Equality, Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (EDIA)
UoM was one of the first Universities to establish Social Responsibility as a core goal. It is
committed to Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (REF5a, §3.2) and our Dignity at Work policy for
staff and students emphasizes the right of everyone to be treated with respect. Social responsibility
resonates strongly in the Unit and in the recruitment and progression of our academic, research,
                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
technical, and administrative staff. We follow UoM guidance on EDI in all training activities (§2a.2,
REF5a §3.2).
The Faculty has dedicated EDIA leadership positions at Vice Dean, Associate Dean, and School
levels. EDIA postholders serve on leadership teams and chair EDIA committees addressing EDIA
characteristics, as well as developing our EDIA objectives and Athena SWAN actions and
progress. In the Unit, the Departments CEAS and Materials held Athena Swan Silver within the
period (Silver and Bronze in REF2014), and MACE and EEE held Athena Swan Bronze. With the
restructure, both the Schools of Engineering and of Natural Sciences will apply for Athena Swan
Silver in November 2021.
Multiple mechanisms help provide a supportive and inclusive research culture, e.g. targeted
mentoring in fellowship and funding applications to under-represented groups. In the 2019 CAPITA
University Staff Survey, 92% of participants considered UoM to be a good place to work, 84% felt it
was committed to equal opportunities, 89% felt it acted fairly in recruitment, and 87% were aware
of their responsibilities within UoM’s Dignity at Work and Study Policy on bullying, harassment, and
discrimination.

2c.1 Recruitment and promotion
Our recruitment strategies have addressed the need to improve diversity across gender, Black,
Asian, Minority Ethnic, disabled, and other minatory groups. We have monitored progress, initiated
new recruitment, selection, shortlisting and interview processes, and improved systems of support
and mentorship. New actions included highlighting flexible working options in advertisements and
gender decoding of advertisements to ensure inclusive language.
All staff in recruitment panels attend regular mandatory courses on Unconscious Bias, Diversity in
the Workplace, and Recruiting Staff at Manchester. At interview, standard proformas are employed
to ensure fairness and consistency of process. We have endeavoured to increase the diversity of
interview panels with female and BAME representation and to avoid overburdening individuals, we
have extended female and BAME representation to senior researchers or another submitted Unit.
We review career paths from PhD to professor to ensure sustainability in recruitment and career
progression, and, in each research area, a suitable senior-junior ratio and EDIA balance. To help
address gaps in research while improving protected characteristic representation, we have
targeted ECRs using DKO and DKL Fellowships (§2a.3). Large programme grants (e.g. MIDAS,
LightForm) have increasingly introduced EDIA Committees with an EDIA charter, including policies
on enhanced payments to PhD students for extended parental leave, childcare funding to help
conference attendance, and care-friendly scheduling of meetings.
Our gender balance across returned staff improved from 14% to 18% female between REF2014
and REF2021, and the percentage of BAME staff increased 26% to 28%.
Taken together these actions led to a 25% and 10% increase in the number of female and BAME
applicants for vacancies over 2016-19. The Unit increased the absolute number of female PGR
entrants by 8% between 2014/15 and 2019/20. The proportion of BAME PGRs has been greater
than 50% consistently during the period, and as a proportion of all PGR entrants has increased
from 59% in 2014/15 to 64% in 2019/20.

2c.2 Flexible working
All Departments support flexible working (REF5a §3.1), which can be written explicitly into staff
contracts, e.g. reduced hours to accommodate childcare arrangements (73 of the Unit’s research

                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
staff are part-time with the number of PDRAs/Research Fellows increasing from 13 in 2016 to 27 in
2020). Most meetings are organized between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. and the dates of large meetings,
such as School Boards, published at the start of the academic year. Our Special Leave Policy
accommodates serious family illness and allows temporary reduction in working hours.
UoM’s package for parental leave provides six months at full pay, three months at statutory level,
and three months unpaid leave. Shared parental leave was introduced in 2015. Cover is provided
by a fixed-term appointment. For PDRAs whose grant does not include parental leave,
Departments underwrite the salary if a grant extension is possible or appoint a research associate
for the period.
Keeping-in-Touch days enable staff to maintain contact with the Department while on parental
leave, and staff can choose to continue receiving Department emails and newsletters.
Part-time staff are treated the same as full-time equivalents for promotion and career-progression
opportunities.

2c.3 Returning from periods of leave
We provide support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave. Staff
recovering from illness are assessed by the Occupational Health Service and a return-to-work plan
agreed. In consultation with their line-manager, staff may choose to phase their return. They may
be relieved from teaching and given a reduced administrative load for up to six months to focus on
research. They can also draw on UoM’s Peer Support Group and several Health and Wellbeing
services and facilities.

2c.4 Support for disabled staff
UoM’s Disability Advisory Support Service (DASS) supports students and staff with a disability.
DASS assists individuals in applying for RCUK Disabled Student Allowance (DSA) and Access to
Work (AtW) to fund specific equipment or reasonable adjustments to conduct research.
Departments address individual cases where routine adjustments do not suffice.
Staff who identify as disabled receive extra support to enable their participation in meetings or
Departmental events (e.g. use of a palantypist). Where extra costs associated with disability arise
for conference travel, UoM’s DASS can provide funds not covered by the DSA or AtW schemes.

2c.5 Equality and diversity issues in constructing REF submission
Training of assessors of REF submissions complies with UoM’s Ensuring E&D in REF2021. At
Departmental level, assessments of contributions, especially outputs, were mediated by panels
with the maximum possible diversity, typically in gender, ethnicity, and career stage.
The final selection of outputs was by algorithm to eliminate selection bias at this stage. To test for
overall bias, the numbers of outputs submitted by minority groups were compared with those
expected from the corresponding proportions of staff in the Unit. None of the differences between
submitted and expected numbers were statistically significant.
ICSs named all contributing researchers independent of career stage. Professional Services
supported all shortlisted ICSs to avoid staff being disadvantaged by other commitments. Selection
bias was analysed at institutional level rather than by UoA and results are summarized in REF5a
(§3.4). In this Unit, 38% of ICS lead authors and 18% of contributors identified as female, the latter
matching our gender balance.


                                                                                               Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
3a. Research funding and strategies for generation
Over the REF period, the average research income per FTE increased by 47%, with 59 awards of
£1m or more. The Unit’s market share of research income rose from 4.4% to 6.3%.
Our research funding strategy was established within the framework of Faculty, School, and
Departmental structures (§1b), guided by Departmental Senior Leadership Teams, Research
Committees, and External Advisory Groups. It is summarized here in the following §3a.1-§3a.4

3a.1 General strategies for income generation
Individuals and Research Groups have a range of strategies available for securing research
income:
      Exploit expertise and facilities within UoM’s Research Institutes bp-ICAM, DNI, NGI, PSI,
       and others (§1f.1) to promote cross-disciplinary proposals, e.g. Prosperity Partnerships and
       EPSRC Strategic Equipment.
      Initiate larger research proposals in emerging areas with experienced researchers who
       identify opportunities and facilitate consortia, e.g. the EPSRC project Home Offshore, which
       brought together researchers in renewable power, robotics, and artificial intelligence (£1.8m
       to UoM, lead Barnes).
      Capitalize on international research links to access overseas and UK funding for
       international collaboration, e.g. DISCOVERER. Over the period EU funding (§3a.2) grew by
       66%.
      Manage and develop major long-term industrial relationships (§1c, §1e), e.g. Rolls-Royce
       (£6.3m to Unit), including the UTC, which was a significant contributor to the E Fan X
       programme in which high-voltage technologies are used in new-concept aircraft. Our work
       led to technology being adopted in new programmes on hydrogen-fuelled aerospace. Other
       examples beyond the Prosperity Partnerships (§3a.3) include (with total direct funding to
       Unit within period): NG (£6.4m), Petronas (£1.4m), EDF (£1.3m), and Airbus (£1.1m), and
       growing relationships, e.g. Rapiscan Systems (Personal Screening Systems, £0.6m).
      Prepare Research Groups for future trends through timely appointments (e.g. Liu for Future
       Substations) and by rapidly assembling multidisciplinary teams aided by project managers
       (§3a.1). Workload models and sabbaticals (§2a) ensure staff can concentrate on large bids.
       Departmental funds and DTP awards support novel research proposals and larger bids.
      Draw on dedicated professional support (PS) staff (REF5a §4.1) to identify opportunities
       and provide administrative support over the project lifecycle. Research Support Managers
       work with Strategic Funding and Business Engagement teams to understand future
       priorities and assist large-scale bids. The Faculty’s Research Strategy Coordinator Group
       facilitates responses to short-deadline calls, e.g. for the successful RE3 and National
       Nuclear User Facility (NNUF) bids. It also implements Faculty review of e.g. EPSRC
       Strategic Equipment applications.
      Provide proposal-writing workshops, mock-interview panels for individual researchers, and
       internal peer review by Review Champions (those with outstanding success with research
       funding).




                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3a.2 Major research consortia
We have led and participated in research consortia through a strategy of identifying leaders and
then building teams aided by PS staff. Examples follow with Unit award value and, where
appropriate, total award in parentheses:
Unit-led with external partners
      Royce, £215m, the UK national institute for advanced materials research and innovation,
       research hub at UoM (Withers) supported by spokes at Sheffield, Leeds, Liverpool,
       Cambridge, Oxford, Imperial College London.
      RAIN (Robotics and Artificial Intelligence for Nuclear), £4.1m (UoM £0.6m), lead Lennox
       with 10 UoM CoIs and EURATOM, Sheffield, Liverpool, Oxford, Nottingham, Lancaster,
       Bristol, Oxford, and 37 project partners including Sellafield, NDA, NNL, EDF Energy, Rolls-
       Royce.
      UK Catalysis Hub - 'Science': 2 Catalysis at the Water-Energy Nexus, £3.9m, lead
       Hardacre with 3 UoM CoIs, 6 other universities.
      Home Offshore (Holistic Operation and Maintenance for Energy for Offshore Wind Farms),
       £1.8m, lead Barnes with 8 UoM CoIs and Cranfield, Warwick, Durham, Herriot-Watt, and
       project partners Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult, Siemens Wind Power.
      MY_STORE (SUPERGEN Energy Storage Challenge), £1.3m, lead Mancarella with 8 UoM
       CoIs and 9 project partners including Ove Arup, AE Technology, Electricity NW, Hitachi
       Europe.
      LightForm (Embedding Materials Engineering in Manufacturing with Light Alloys), £3.5m,
       lead Prangnell with 6 CoIs and Cambridge, Imperial and 28 project partners including
       Airbus, BAE Systems, Rolls-Royce, DSTL.
      Transformer Research Consortium Phase 4, £1.6m, lead Z. Wang with 2 UoM CoIs and 10
       Project Partners including NG, M&I Materials, Shell Research.
      GEMS (Geometric Mechanics of Solids: New analysis of modern engineering materials),
       £1.3m, lead Jivkov with 2 UoM CoIs and project partners EDF Energy, NAFEMS, Amec
       Foster Wheeler, Simpleware, Playgen.
      PACIFIC (Providing a Nuclear Fuel Cycle in the UK for Implementing Carbon Reductions),
       £1.2m, lead Abram with 5 UoM CoIs and 10 other universities.
      HEXMAT (Heterogenoeous mechanics in hexagonal alloys across length and time scales),
       £1.1m, lead Preuss with 2 UoM CoIs and Imperial, Oxford.
      MIDAS (Mechanistic understanding of Irradiation Damage in fuel Assemblies), £3.8m, lead
       lead Preuss with 5 UoM CoIs and Imperial, UKAEA, Oxford and 17 project partners
       including EURATOM, Rolls-Royce, NNL, EDF.
      TORONE (TOtal characterization for Remote Observation in Nuclear Environments),
       £0.9m, lead Martin with 2 UoM CoIs and Lancaster and project partners Japan Atomic
       Energy Agency (JAEA), NDA, University of Florida.
      Robotics for Nuclear Environments, £2.0m, lead Lennox, with Birmingham, UWE.
      CoatIN (Intelligent engineering coatings for in-manufacture and in-service monitoring of
       critical safety products), £0.9m (total £2.6m), lead Matthews with Belfast, London South
       Bank University, Swansea, SRUC, Sheffield and 8 project partners including Qioptiq, AWE,
       GE Power, Manufacturing Technology Centre UK.
      NNUF Molten Salts in Nuclear Technology Laboratory, £1.8m, lead Sharrad with UCL,
       Edinburgh, Sheffield.

                                                                                           Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
EU projects and external partners
      CROSSBOW (CROSS BOrder management of variable renewable energies and storage
       units enabling a transnational Wholesale market), H2020 RIA £1.1m, lead Milanovic with 3
       UoM CoIs and 12 other EU countries.
      DISCOVERER (DISruptive teChnOlogies for VERy low Earth oRbit platforms), H2020 FET
       £2.0m, lead Roberts with 4 UoM CoIs and Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, USA.
      Graphene Flagship, H2020 FET £4.0m, 14 UoM CoIs including Bissett, Kinloch, Nair and
       Young.
      CORREL-CT (Correlative tomography), H2020 ERC Advanced, £2.0m, lead Withers with 2
       UoM CoIs.
Led by other UoM units or institutions
      Future Manufacturing Research Hub in Compound Semi-conductors, £1.7m, Missous with
       lead Cardiff, UCL, Sheffield and 23 partners including Lockheed Martin, NPL, Toshiba.
      Large Area Metal Additive LAMA, £1.0m, Prangnell with lead Cranfield, Coventry,
       Strathclyde and 10 project partners including DSTL, BAE Systems, Schlumberger.
      NNUF Hot Robotics Facility, £0.9m, Lennox with Bristol (lead), NNL, and UKAEA.
      FutureDAMS (Design and assessment of resilient and sustainable interventions in water-
       energy-food-environment Mega-Systems), £2m (total to UoM £4.6m), Harou and seven
       other CoIs, 30 collaborators including Southampton, UCL, Newcastle, Cambridge, Yangon
       (Myanmar), Ghana Energy Commission, and six project partners including Nature
       Conservancy, International Union for Conservation of Nature, and the World Bank, USA.
      EPSRC Graphene Engineering with Graphene-based membranes, £1.3m (total to UoM
       £2.8m, 2013-18), Holmes, Siperstein, Haigh, Kinloch, and others with Leeds, Calgary,
       and nine project partners including AkzoNobel, DSTL, ITM Power and Electrochemical
       Energy Storage with Graphene-Enabled Materials, £1m (total UoM £1.9m, 2013-18), Todd,
       Forsyth, Kinloch and others with Liverpool and eight project partners including Qinietiq,
       Technical Fibre Products, Johnson Matthey, Rolls-Royce.

3a.3 Prosperity partnerships
UoM holds four Prosperity Partnerships, the joint highest within period. The Unit leads three:
      CAFE4DM (Centre in Advanced Fluid Engineering for Digital Manufacturing), EPSRC
       £2.3m, Unilever £4.5m, lead Hardacre with STFC, Essex and project partner Unilever.
      SusCoRD (Sustainable Coatings by Rational Design), EPSRC £3.0m, AkzoNobel £3.0m,
       lead Lyon with seven UoM CoIs and Sheffield and long-term strategic project partner Azko
       Nobel, with collaboration from end-users Tata Steel, Airbus, Crown Packaging.
      Preventing Surface Degradation in Demanding Environments, EPSRC £1.7m, BP £1.7m,
       lead Withers with six UoM CoIs and Cambridge, Imperial, Edinburgh, Leeds and project
       partner BP International.
Several academics are also directly involved or lead multiple framework agreements with strategic
partners including M. Smith, Iacovides with EDF, Abram with NNL, and Jones with ONR.

3a.4 Major non-consortium research awards
In addition to support from research consortia and partnerships, the following major awards were
made:


                                                                                            Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Four RAEng Research Chairs Xiao, Prangnell, Kinloch, Lennox, 2 Royal Society
      University Research Fellows Race, Nair, UKRI Future Leadership Fellowship Boland,
      EPSRC Established Fellowship Saunders.
     ERC Starting Grants Haigh, Nair, ERC Advanced Grants Withers, Matthews, total
      support £4.8m.
    EPSRC SIMFUEL and Alpha-Active Material Manufacturing and Characterization Facility,
      £5.5m, Abram.
    EPSRC-UKCRIC National Centre for Infrastructure Materials: Extreme Loading Facilities,
      £3.0m, Y Wang.
    EPSRC GEMS (Geometric Mechanics of Solids), £1.3m, Jivkov.
    ERC MATTERDESIGN (New Science and Technology of Artificial Layered Structures and
      Devices), £1.0m, Nair.
    UK Charity To Find a Better Way SEMIS (Scanning Electromagnetic Inspection Systems),
      £1.6m, Peyton.

3a.5 Links between funding and high-quality output or impact
The following are highlights from across Themes (see also §1c.3):
       EU Graphene Flagship (including renewals in period) led to at least eight review and
        research papers in the Scopus top 1% field-weighted percentile.
       EPSRC LightForm Programme led to seven papers from the Unit in the Scopus top 5%
        field-weighted percentile and >35 papers with co-authors outside the UoM.
       EPSRC RESNET (2011-16) on electrical power systems resilience to extreme weather led
        to three papers in the Scopus top 1% field-weighted percentile and further EPSRC funding
        with researchers in Chile, culminating in the Chilean adoption of the project’s planning tool
        and a 2018 Newton Prize for Panteli and Mancarella (§4a.1).
       The bp-ICAM grant led to understanding the mechanism of metal-based lubricant additives,
        such as molybdenum sulphide and ZDDP, with an almost a fourfold reduction in wear. The
        grant also improved understanding of causes of the failures due to environmental stress
        crack corrosion, with potential value to BP of $1m-$10m due to reduced maintenance and
        replacement.
       Electricity North West (ENWL) funding through Ofgem's Low Carbon Networks Fund Tier 1
        Project led to a paper in the Scopus top 5% field-weighted percentile and contributed to the
        formulation of ENWL’s Smart Street project on voltage control techniques (total £11.5m,
        www.enwl.co.uk/smartstreet).
       NG funding for research on new markers for ageing transformer insulation contributed to
        CIGRE technical brochure 779 and an IEC international standard adopted by NG for ~1,000
        power transformers. In separate NG-funded research, a benign alternative was identified for
        the potent greenhouse gas SF6 used as high-voltage equipment insulation.
       The EPSRC award Graphene-based Membranes (2013-18) was the starting point of an
        influential body of work by Nair that led to increased funding (Royal Society, EPSRC,
        Innovate UK, EC, Leverhulme; see §2a, §3a.2) and prizes (Institute of Physics, Institute of
        Metal Research Chinese Academy of Sciences, see §4b.4), and two Clarivate Highly Cited
        Researcher awards.




                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3b. Organizational infrastructure, facilities, and expertise supporting research and their
impact

3b.1 Platforms and facilities and their impact
The Unit’s world-leading facilities form the technology platforms underpinning outputs and impact.
They are accessible to researchers, external academics, and industrial collaborators. The creation
of Royce (§1f.1, REF5a §4.2) led to further investment in sustainably operated equipment and
estate and gives focus for national engagement across UoM’s platforms and those of partner
universities. Highlights of the investment and their impact follow:
World-class laboratories (£545m). The MECD estate project began in 2018 and will provide
18,940 m2 of modern laboratories by 2021 (£425m), including dedicated space for other platforms.
The Royce Hub (§1f.1, £105m EPSRC) adds 5,618 m2 of space with facilities for nuclear materials,
bioengineering, and sustainable polymers. ~£15m was spent refurbishing laboratories as a
temporary location for Advanced Materials research during the MECD construction.
2D Materials Platforms. The National Graphene Institute (£62m, EPSRC and ERDF) was
commissioned in 2015 and operational from 2016 with additional ~£4m investment (UoM, EPSRC,
EU) in laboratories (2016-19). The NGI has 7,000 m2 of floorspace including 1,500 m2 of clean
rooms. It has the world-first integrated UHV dry transfer and characterization system (patented by
UoM under Royce funding). Other platforms include graphene and 2D materials ink formulation
and functionalization facilities, CVD growth, 2D/3D printing laboratory, scanning microscopy facility,
optical characterization facilities (Raman, low-T photoluminescence), adaptive optical materials
laboratory (IR/THz), electrical magneto-transport facilities (10 miliKelvin 14Tesla Oxford
Instruments Titan), thermoelectrics laboratory, membrane laboratory, energy laboratory and
nanocomposites laboratory (fabrication and testing). The GEIC (£50m, HEFCE RPIF, Masdar
UAE, Innovate UK) was commissioned in 2016 and opened in 2018. It contains £10m (ERDF,
Greater Manchester Combined Authority) of pilot scale facilities including spark plasma sintering,
graphitization furnace, thermoplastic processing, thermoset composite processing, first roll-to-roll
CVD machine from Aixtron, MOCVD machine, custom membrane pilot line, dry room with battery
assembly line and printing laboratory. Contribution to impact: the NGI and GEIC together give
the capacity to take work from fundamental concept (TRL1) to pilot-scale demonstrators (TRL5)
through academic-industrial collaboration on the University campus. NGI provides the laboratory
platform for joint academic-company projects, e.g. Petronas, Morgan, Sony, Lockheed Martin,
Alpha Metals, Lifesaver, and Colloids have all embedded their researchers in the NGI. Licences
from company collaborations include Inov8 (Vijayaraghavan), First Graphene (Kinloch) and
Lifesave (Nair). GEIC Tier 1 industrial members (e.g. First Graphene, Gerdau, Haydale) have
dedicated laboratory space in the building and ~100 days of equipment access per year and Tier 2
members (e.g. Highways England, QinetiQ) have 30 days of equipment access per year. These
Tier members have to date used 700 days of access time (~£4m value). The NGI/GEIC also hosts
20 University spin-outs including Graphene Industries, SmartIR, LowDee, Molymem, Bespoke
Crystals, Grafine, and Atomic Mechanics.
Photon Science Platform. The PSI houses 18 Unit staff among its 33 academics and has
photonic, electronic, magnetic, surface science and materials structural characterization
capabilities with a >£20m investment, including X-ray to THz ultrafast laser sources, Raman
spectroscopy, world’s first tool for single-ion doping of materials for quantum technologies and
cryogenic, ultrafast, scattering-type THz-probe optical pump microscopy (EPSRC Equipment
CUSTOM, £0.8m) facility for imaging single ion dopants, plasmonic modes, and Dirac surface
states in topological insulators. The Optical Sensing Lab has facilities for combustion diagnostics
                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and gas sensing, including gas handling, fume extraction, high-pressure and turbulent burners,
lasers for sensing and imaging of key gas species and particulates. Contribution to impact: The
systems for CO2 imaging on jet exhaust analysis are installed at the Instituto Nacional de Técnica
Aeroespacial (INTA), Madrid, and the systems for analysing non-volatile particulate emission from
jet-engine are under development with Rolls-Royce.
Cross-Scale Imaging. The Electron Microscopy Platform is one of the UK’s largest with 5
TEMs, 13 SEMs and 5 focused ion beam (FIB) instruments (£11.6m in period). The Henry
Moseley X-Ray Imaging Centre (MXIF) expanded into new laboratory space in 2014 aided by
£17m RPIF and £4.2m EPSRC capital grant. (§3c.3). The MXIF has seven microCT scanners
(MCT), including the UK’s fastest (Rapiscan RTT110), versatile custom bays, and the highest-
resolution laboratory-based MCT (Zeiss Xradia 810 Ultra) (§1f.1). In 2020, the Unit led the
successful National Research Facility for Laboratory X-Ray CT bid with UoM as a hub (UoM, £6m)
and Southampton, Warwick and UCL as spokes (£4m). Contribution to impact: Electron
microscopy supports >450 internal users from 12 different university departments and the MXIF
has supported >3,000 total users. Overall external access is reported within the Royce access
(§3b.4)
Bioengineering Platform. The platform has invested in equipment to improve make, characterize
and test capability, delivering greater resolution, throughput, and reproducibility (£7.5m in period).
It hosts bioadditive manufacture and printing platforms, fibre-spinning facilities, and advanced
imaging facilities. The biomechanical testing and evaluation suite (~£1m, Royce) can test multiple
samples in biologically relevant conditions. Contribution to impact: Manchester BIOGEL spin-
out’s hydrogels are undergoing animal trials for nerve repair and anal fistula regeneration, and the
imaging facilities are used by the Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust.
Metal Processing Platform. The platform hosts £6m of thermomechanical processing facilities
(including instrumented sheet-forming press, cold rolling mill, quenching dilatometer, Gleeble
simulator, and Zwick test frames) and advanced joining and cladding facilities (a micro-electron-
beam welder, as well as robots and instrumented welding equipment for large-scale material
addition). Combined with Royce Advanced Metals Processing at Sheffield, the platform offers
unique UK capability. Contribution to impact: The equipment has been heavily used by internal
and external researchers and by industry, e.g. nearly 900 hours on the dilatometer over six months
in 2019-20, with ~20% from industry, of which half was for SMEs. The platform’s Materials Testing
and Analysis unit specializes in determining residual stress by X-ray diffraction and is an approved
supplier to Rolls-Royce for this technique. More than 130 other companies have also used this
service (e.g. for the measurement of retained austenite in the rolling bearing industry).
Nuclear Platform. The platform underpins UoM’s role as a leading UK institution in nuclear
engineering, with 80 academics in UoM, 30 in the Unit. It has four sub-platforms:
    Nuclear Fuels, founded in 2013, supports the academic branch of the UK Nuclear Fuel
      Centre of Excellence (NFCE), enabling unsealed samples of alpha-active nuclear materials
      to be safely manufactured, characterized, and tested. The facility includes a suite of
      atmosphere-controlled glove-boxes for radioactive powders, and manufacturing equipment
      for preparing nuclear fuels and waste-immobilization materials representing commercial
      products. It received £3.1m funding in period to research accident-tolerant fuels (£1m from
      DECC in 2015, £2.1m from BEIS, through NNL in 2017) and £1.9m for molten salts in
      nuclear technologies (NNUF, Sharrad). Contribution to impact: The NFCE facilities
      attracted funding for key research activities. BEIS, through NNL, provided £1.1m in 2017
      and an extra £1m to support research into advanced materials for accident-tolerant fuels.

                                                                                              Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Rolls-Royce has used the facility (through several PGRs) to research nuclear fuel
       materials.
      Graphite has specialist storage, fume-hoods and furnaces with associated gas
       characterization for active materials and impact excitation for dynamic Young’s modulus
       measurements. Contribution to impact: Experimental measurements have enabled the
       Office for Nuclear Regulation to robustly challenge licensees operating Advanced Gas-
       cooled Reactors (AGRs) for up to a further 10 years, reducing potential CO2 emissions (ICS
       Jones).
      Thermal Hydraulics has rigs for investigating rotating flow water, liquid injection into a
       vapour chamber and fluid structure interactions. It also has a high-flow internal air flow
       facility and large differentially heated cavity for the investigation of natural convection flows.
       Heat and fluid flow diagnostic techniques include Particle Image Velocimetry, Laser
       Doppler Anemometry, Phase Doppler Anemometry, and thermo-chromic liquid crystals.
       These facilities were established through investment from EDF-Energy, Rolls-Royce
       Nuclear, Magnox, EPSRC, and the North West Development Agency. Contribution to
       impact: Information on pressure losses in AGR fuel passages has been used by EDF-
       energy to validate their CFD codes. Quantification of heat transfer across AGR thermal
       insulation packs has been used by EDF-Energy (Barnwood) to develop their safety case for
       the AGR hot-box dome. Research on flow-induced vibrations of PWR fuel rods led to an
       invitation to join the VIKING consortium (EDF-France, Framatome, NRG, Vattenfall, and
       others). Work on characterization of water jet injection in PWR pressurisers is in progress
       and will be used by Rolls-Royce Nuclear.
      Robotics for Extreme Environments Lab (REEL), Cumbria has 300 m2 of laboratories
       housing £2m of state-of-the-art robotics equipment including ABB and Kuka manipulators,
       mobile vehicles (aquatic, ground-based and aerial), sensory systems such as LiDAR, 3D
       cameras, and vision-based positioning systems for use in submerged and ground-based
       environments. There are large-scale mock-ups of nuclear challenges, including a storage
       pond and special nuclear material store. There is permanent accommodation for eight UoM
       research staff, and for seconded engineers from Sellafield (£0.9m NNUF equipment grant).
       Contribution to impact: Work has led to 10 deployments of robots into active facilities,
       four subsystems bought to market, and two spin-outs.
Pilot Plant Platform. The Unit has one of the largest university pilot-plant facilities in Europe with
its own mechanical and electrical workshops and essential infrastructure (e.g. steam lines, optical-
fibre connections) to facilitate large-scale, industrially relevant research. It is fully controlled with
state-of-the-art Siemens software (PCS) and maintains strong links with Siemens. It underpinned
the Centre in Advanced Fluid Engineering for Digital Manufacturing, CAFE4DM (£3m EPSRC,
2017, §3a.3) with pilot food-processing and ice-cream plants. Contribution to impact: Research
is being deployed by Unilever in a digital twin to design a completely new facility for product
personalization. Additionally, NIR, FTIR, and Raman spectroscopy are being evaluated at Unilever
for shampoo-viscosity measurements for suitability in a factory environment.
Electrical Systems Platforms. These platforms span research from vehicle to national-grid scale
simulation and test facilities. The National Grid High Voltage Lab is the UK’s largest university
HV laboratory and the only facility capable of operating at the voltage levels required for the UK
400kV power system. New equipment (EPSRC £1.9m) includes 800kV AC and 600kV DC test sets
complementing the 2MV impulse generator. The laboratory supports research ranging from
understanding fundamental high-voltage issues to applications in the field. The Rolls-Royce
Intelligent Electrical Power Networks Evaluation Facility has a state-of-the-art 100 kW, 540 V

                                                                                                Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
DC aircraft electrical systems demonstrator that supports fundamental and applications research.
The Grid-Scale Energy Storage Facility is a 250 kW, 180 kWh, campus-based, grid-linked
battery storage system with flexible control and high-power cell-testing systems. Our Hardware-in-
the-Loop Grid Emulator is one of the UK’s largest university facilities of its type, enabling the
development of power system digitization and smart-grid technologies, e.g. with NG and Scottish
Power to investigate digital sub-station technologies. Contribution to impact: This facility
underpinned an ICS (H. Li). A research fellow has provided flexible support for short-term industrial
projects, which delivered a range of impacts into the collaborating organizations, including
Siemens, SSE, Carillion, NG, and Western Power Distribution. Rolls-Royce staff tested a prototype
140 kW starter-generator for small regional gas turbines.
Computational Platform. The Computational Shared Facility (CSF) provides a stepping-stone to
regional, national, and international supercomputing facilities in the Unit’s research. Staff influence
the future provision of computing infrastructure through leadership roles in the UK and Europe, in
organizations such as STFC, UKACM, and PRACE (https://prace-ri.eu), also N8-CIR
(https://n8cir.org.uk/). Contribution to impact: Investment in the CSF has enabled a portfolio of
>30 funded engineering projects that use, develop, or extend algorithms and computer software for
virtual engineering, including two Prosperity Partnerships (CAFE4DM and SuSCoRD, §3a.3). The
CSF was acknowledged in >100 of the Unit’s publications.
Internal investment in well-found laboratories and midscale platforms. UoM invested £2.8m
internally on small-scale (<£50k) items and >£4m on mid-scale (>£50k) equipment in the Unit
through internal bidding.
Benefits in kind. Contributions provided by partners for platforms include the following:
      FEI Company (subsequently Thermo Fisher) embedded their staff (Burnett, §2a.5) to work
       on the combination of 3D imaging using X-ray CT and FIB-SEM serial sectioning at
       Manchester, and adopted in their commercial software from 2012 to 2015. FEI donated a
       Heliscan CT (£1m, 2015) machine to the UoM imaging centre.
      Morgan Advanced Materials loaned a pilot-scale reactor to the NGI to collaborate on
       scaling-up graphene production (§3b.1).
      The Unilever research laboratory in the Pilot Plant focuses on the rheology of the Unilever
       products and has a range of high-volume, high-pressure mixing equipment donated by
       Unilever.

3b.2 Technical support
Our technical staff are essential to supporting and extending the capabilities of our platforms and
training users. In July 2020, we had 20 senior experimental officers (SEOs), 55 experimental
officers (EOs), and 64 technicians with research-related duties. Specialist support includes EM (4
SEOs, 3 EOs), X-ray Computer Tomography (2 SEOs, 2 EOs), high-temperature processing (2
technicians), mechanical testing (1 SEO,1 technician), composite and polymer manufacturer (2
EOs, 2 technicians), High Voltage and Current Laboratories (2 EOs), and the MBE platform (1
SEO, 2 EOs). There are also 30 technicians in the Unit’s electrical and mechanical workshops. The
NGI is supported by 14 EO/Technicians and the GEIC is supported by 5 Application Managers, 6
Application Specialists, and 3 Technicians.
Technical support is increasingly sustained by adapting our platforms to a facility model for
sustainable operation and cost recovery (§4a.3).



                                                                                                Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3b.3 Ensuring EDIA in facilities
Two of the four leadership roles in facilities are held by women (ADR for Facilities and Head of the
EM Centre). Women accounted for a third of interviewees at the Unit’s four successful bids to the
EPSRC Strategic Equipment bids since 2017. ECRs are given priority in Core Equipment funds
over the last three years to enable platforms to reflect future research demands. In 2016, 10% of
the investigators on our EPSRC grants were female, increasing to 19% in 2019.
Physical access to facilities is considered through UoM’s planning and operational processes. All
are fully wheelchair-accessible and all our buildings have disabled toilet facilities, wide door
access, and accessible light switches and swipe pads.

3b.4 Cross-HEI shared use of research infrastructure, including major research facilities in
UK and overseas
Royce. To increase cross-HEI and industrial usage, Royce has developed seamless access to all
partner Royce facilities with a unified equipment list for each theme independent of location. Total
external and industrial access to UoM platforms through Royce (2018-20) was 8,900 hours and
5,400 hours (62 unique companies) respectively in period. Access was sustained by one-third
recurrent funding (£8m to UoM) and sustainable pricing to enable world-leading support and
access.
University of Manchester at Harwell. UoMaH is a portal to DLS, ISIS neutron source, Central
Laser Facility (CLF), and the Scientific Computing Department (SCD) at Harwell. UoM has
invested £1.3m annually (since 2018) and embedded a technical team of seven at Harwell with
eight Fellows split-site to provide access for academic and industry users and to advance new
techniques. UoMaH offers materials expertise and storage capability, radioactive-sample handling,
and manufactures specialist containment cells for toxic materials for DLS, CLF and ISIS. Its
partnership with 3Dmagination provided courses in reconstruction and analytical techniques to
users of the National Laboratories. Collaborations are in place with HSE, UKAEA, Culham,
Johnson Matthey, US National facilities, Cranfield University, BAE, AWE, and UKSA. Access to
Harwell facilities is also a significant component of the research of the UK Catalysis Hub. Haigh
and Burke contribute to management and external review of facilities at Harwell. Haigh is a
member of the User Steering Group for the proposed I05 upgrade and new nanoARPES beam.
Burnett is a member of the Working Group for Dual Imaging and Diffraction (DIAD) beamline at
DLS.
SuperSTEM. This aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) facility
at the STFC’s Daresbury campus is run by a consortium of Universities (Manchester, Leeds,
Liverpool, Oxford, Glasgow, and York). A £7m investment was secured in 2017 for a third STEM
instrument and complementary sample-preparation capabilities. During 2012-17, SuperSTEM
assisted 190 distinct users (from 17 different countries) on 245 projects, resulting in >206
publications.
High-Supersonic Tunnel. HSST is the only operational blowdown wind tunnel in the UK offering
long duration at high Mach numbers (4, 5 or 6 continuously for ~8 seconds). Since 2015, UoM has
invested £70k to replace several of its ageing components and upgrade its flow measurement
instrumentation. It was included in the National Wind Tunnel Facilities Initiatives in its second
phase in 2019. Development of flow-diagnostic techniques for industrial-scale experiments,
including PSP measurements with miniature cameras and background Schlieren, has led to
collaborative wind-tunnel campaigns at the transonic wind tunnel at ARA and other European
facilities (e.g. H2K wind tunnel at DLR Cologne).
                                                                                            Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Computing Resources. Time on the UK National Supercomputing Service ARCHER is provided
through the UK High End Computing (HEC) Consortia, UK Turbulence Consortium, the UK
Consortium for Mesoscale Engineering Science, and through direct Research Allocation Panel
applications. The combined average given to researchers in the Unit is 75 MAU/year (equivalent
notional cost of £45k/year), enabling them to generate publications and reference data to validate
software and methods. Tier 2 HPC facilities such as CIRRUS, as well as the Hartree
supercomputer, are heavily used for industrial projects, mainly with Unilever. A successful bid to
use JADE, the Tier 2 facility running state-of-the-art GPU hardware, enabled us to test our
research on fluid-structure interaction. Successful demonstration of our methods led to grants from
Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), BAE Systems, Solomon Commercials, and others amounting to ~£450k.
There has also been significant use of N8 HPC 2014-18, subsequently replaced by N8 Bede.
UK Facilities. Thirty-two Unit staff have led 136 projects (£6.9m of beamtime) at DLS. Other
facilities accessed include ISIS (195 days), Warwick Centre for Ultrafast Spectroscopy (15 days),
Laser at Didcot (15 days), and EPSRC National Ion Beam (20 days).
European synchrotron sources. Staff accessed ~240 days at non-UK facilities (e.g. ESRF,
Petra-3, Elettra, ILL, SNS, APS, Astrid and MAX IV).




                                                                                          Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
4a. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
We strengthened our support for and expanded our collaborations, networks, and partnerships
over the REF period, nationally and internationally.

4a.1 Collaborations with academic colleagues
The Unit’s individual collaborations are world-wide. As an indication of reach, our researchers co-
authored >650 papers with colleagues from the world’s top 20 universities (THE World University
Rankings), including Caltech, Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, MIT, Princeton,
Stanford, Berkeley, UCLA, Universities of Chicago and Pennsylvania. The award of 101 Marie
Skłodowska-Curie ITNs, IFs, and RISEs helped develop training networks, fund mobility
programmes, and promote staff exchanges. Since 2017, the Unit had 71 awards associated with
other UK HEIs totaling £57.6m. Examples of formalized academic collaborations follow:
      Institutional research partnerships with the Universities of Melbourne and Toronto (§4a.1)
       led to eight joint engineering PhD students with Melbourne and six projects in engineering
       with Toronto.
      Institutional research partnerships established with the Universities of Tokyo, Tsinghua,
       Tianjin, and Jilin in porous materials and catalysis led to a H2020 Marie Curie RISE project
       (ZEOBIOCHEM, Fan).
      Joint professorial staff appointments were made with the University of Melbourne
       (Mancarella, Ochoa) and with the University of Chile. Collaborative research has resulted,
       supported by two Newton Projects, and involving the University of Chile, on disaster
       management and resilience in electric power systems (Mancarella). The first Newton
       project led to adoption of the project’s resilience planning tool by the Chilean electricity
       coordinator, and in turn to investments against earthquakes of over $50m and award of a
       2018 Newton Prize to the Universities of Manchester and Chile (§3a.5). The second project
       was extended to include Chile and Costa Rica.
      A partnership with two leading universities in Zambia (University of Zambia and Copperbelt
       University) was underpinned by a five-year MoU between the Universities of Zambia and
       Manchester (Mutale) to improve engineering research and education in the country’s
       development. More than US$4m was raised including construction of a 66/11 kV
       demonstration substation featuring the latest ABB digital control to benefit >500 students
       and staff.
      A collaboration with Xiamen University, China and Technical University of Malaysia was
       established on resilient and sustainable electrification through the GCRF scheme (TERSE,
       Mancarella). Emerging impact includes the Ministry of Utility in Sarawak increasing energy
       to remote, off-grid households.

4a.2 Collaborations with research users
      Interaction has been facilitated with KTPs and IAAs (§1e.1). For example, five KTPs
       focused on the properties of elastomers for vibration and isolation systems for Ferrat
       (Oyadiji), a new measurement tool for the Aircraft Research Association (Quinn), a new
       condition-monitoring technology in turbine blades as well as early-stage detection in the
       main turbine governor valves for EDF Energy (Sinha), and capability for a sludge-removal
       system for the Fukushima decommissioning site (Weightman).


                                                                                            Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Examples of relationship-building include work with the Defence Science and Technology
       Laboratory on environmental protection for gas-turbine engines (Bojdo) and with Maplebird
       on industrial applications of flapping-wing robots (Nabawy).
      Proof-of-concept projects with users include visualizing trade-offs for Thames Water
       (Harou), investigating reactor pressure vessel microcracks for AMEC (Jivkov), and
       examining the role of Cobotics (UK) in improving manufacturing with Procter & Gamble
       (Weightman).
      Engagement has been secured through secondments (§2a.5), e.g. with EDF (Sinha and
       Rogers), Unilever (Prosser), Siemens and JLR (Revell), Anglian Water (Harou), TATA
       steel (Y. Wang), the NHS (Keshmiri). Others in §2a.4, §2a.5.
      Collaborations with Rapiscan and Safeline Systems led to the companies funding lecturers
       (respectively O’Toole, 2019-24, W. Yin, 2012-15) and contributed to the Queen’s Award for
       Enterprise in the Innovation Category (2016). Other collaborations included EDF Energy in
       monitoring the graphite core of the UK’s AGRs and with Primetals Technologies and Tata
       Steel in licencing the EMspec technology for non-destructive characterization of steel
       microstructures.
      Collaborations with Sellafield Ltd have continued to develop the AVEXIS, MIRRAX and
       CARMA robots for radioactive environments (see §3b.1), with the company funding £400k
       and £2m in kind. Collaboration with Dounreay Site Remediation (DSRL) and the Atomic
       Weapons Establishment led to the first robot to be deployed into the active waste storage
       facility at Dounreay. Work with the Jožef Stefan Institute in Slovenia resulted in the first
       aquatic and ground based robotic surveys of an operational nuclear reactor.
      Collaborations with NNL, Forth Engineering, Atomic Weapons Establishment, EDF, GE,
       Braendler Engineering, and Nuvia were instrumental in securing the Robotics for Nuclear
       Engineering Programme Grant (£4.6m EPSRC) and the RAIN programme (£12.2m UKRI)
       with 37 project partners (§3a.2) led by Lennox.
      Interactions have been advanced through framework agreements (§1e.2, §3a.3), e.g. with
       NG for composite insulators, with Rolls-Royce UTC in Electrical Systems (£400k/year direct
       funding), and several EU projects (SuSTAINABLE, NOBEL GRID, MIGRATE,
       CROSSBOW), all involving transmission and distribution companies from Europe and the
       UK including TSO from UK, Germany, France, Spain, Estonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
       Montengro, Croatia, Serbia, North Macedonia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Italy, Portugal.
       Examples of impact include a load-forecasting tool applied by EDP Portugal
       (SuSTAINABLE), a demand-disaggregation tool for distribution networks in Spain and
       Greece (NOBEL GRID), and a Network Reliability Asset Replacement Decision Support
       Tool applied by NG.

4a.3 Collaboration through Research Centres and Institutes
We collaborated on projects through multiple interdisciplinary Research Centres and Institutes
(infrastructure and impact in §3b):
      bp-ICAM (§1f.1) supports Unit-led research through its EPSRC Prosperity Partnership
       (§3a.3) with Cambridge, Imperial College, Sheffield, Leeds, and Edinburgh.
      National Graphene Institute (§1f.1, §3b.1) acts in a hub-and-spoke model with UK
       Universities Bath, Cambridge, Exeter, Imperial, Lancaster, Nottingham, Oxford, Sheffield,
       Southampton, UCL, Warwick, and cooperating with academic institutions overseas,
       Chalmers University, CNR (Italy), CNRS (France), Columbia University, ETH Zurich,
       Geneva University, Harvard, Italian Institute of Technology, National University of
                                                                                          Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Singapore, NIST (Japan), Yale, and engaging with businesses Alpha Metals, Graphene
       Industries, Haydale, Petronas, Rolls-Royce, Sony. Studies have been scaled-up with
       Morgan Advanced Materials and Petronas and licenced to First Graphene.
      Photon Science Institute (§1f.1 and §3b.1) underpins national collaboration with UK
       academia and industry through Royce with TRAC-costed access to its expertise and
       facilities (§3b.2). Internationally the PSI has strategic collaborations with the Universities of
       Melbourne and Toronto (§4a.1), and with Harvard, Ghent and the BP Koirala Institute of
       Health Science (Nepal), supported by a UK GCRF award. Advances in detection
       technologies have been translated to CERN, supporting collaborative research in exotic
       atoms at the limits of nuclear existence. With Ionoptika, Curry led the development of the
       P-NAME system and its prototype SIMPLE (EPSRC, £3m, sited at the National Ion
       Implantation Centre, University of Surrey), which was subsequently launched as a
       commercial tool (Q-One).
      Dalton Nuclear Institute (§1f.1) supports a wide academic and industrial community. Its
       academic partners include Surrey, Huddersfield, Imperial, Lancaster, Leeds, Liverpool and
       Sheffield and non-academic partners NDA, Sellafield Ltd, Radioactive Waste Management,
       AWE, Rolls-Royce, EdF Energy, Jacobs, NNL, BEIS, MoD, UKAEA, Office of Nuclear
       Regulation, CEA and IAEA.
      Thomas Ashton Institute (§1f.1) is a partnership with the Health and Safety Executive
       (HSE) with networking activities that include the Oil and Gas Technology Centre, Offshore
       Renewable Energy, Food Environment Research Agency, Yorkshire Water, OFGEM,
       Global Offshore Wind, Lafarge Nigeria, the NHS, and the HSE’s Safety and Reliability
       Society, Science Hubs, Futures Team, and Shared Research Programme. It has built
       external stakeholder networks, engaging with 58 companies from 15 different sectors
       including academia, construction, energy, engineering, government, transport, and
       manufacturing. The Institute has been supporting the national effort to combat COVID-19,
       and continues to deliver The Health and Occupation Research Network (THOR) funded by
       HSE and inform HSE guidance with funding by the Lloyds Register Foundation.
      Rolls-Royce University Technology Centre (§3a.1) has worked with mainly EU and US
       companies including Liebherr, Liebherr Aerospace, Nexans, IRT, Tyco Electronics,
       Microsemi, Knowles Capacitors, Technalia, Deep Concept, Applied Superconductors,
       Hyper Tech Research and Columbus Superconductors. The collaboration with Hyper Tech
       Research in the US led to further collaboration with the US Air Force through the US/UK
       Windows on Science program.
      Northwest Composites Centre, which is part of the Polymers, Composites and Textile
       subtheme, has collaborated with partners from the USA, Japan, Singapore, China, India,
       Italy, France, Portugal, and Brazil. Industrial collaborations led to an ICS (Potluri)
       developed with Cygnet-Texkimp and projects including with major prime companies
       (Airbus, BAE Systems), Tier 1 suppliers (GE Aviation, Collins Aerospace, GKN) and Tier 2
       suppliers (Axon Automotive, Sigmatex) (£3.5m within period).
      Tyndall Manchester (§1f.1) has partners within the UK and internationally (Latin America,
       Southeast and East Asia, and Africa). Researchers have regularly worked with Government
       departments and Select Committees, multiple Local Authorities, the UN, large organizations
       e.g. Electricity North West and NG, also SMEs (e.g. DSposal, K Lowther & Co, and Alfred
       Enderby), NGOs (e.g. Friends of the Earth), and community groups. Our researchers took
       up visiting positions at Uppsala, Bergen, and the International Rice Research Institute
       (Philippines). Public engagement activities included collaborations with artists on

                                                                                               Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       exhibitions and events such as the Climate Control Exhibition in the European City of
       Science programme 2016.
      National Grid Power Systems Research Centre (including National Grid High Voltage
       Laboratory, §3b.1) develops commercial solutions to electrical network challenges and has
       worked with Scottish Power Energy Networks, M&I Materials, Shell, Weidmann, EPRI,
       SGB-SMIT, UK Power Networks, TJH2B, Hyosung, SSE, Prysmian, EPRI, NPL, and EA
       Technology. Success is illustrated through two ICSs (Z. Wang, Rowland).
      Henry Moseley X-Ray Imaging Centre (§3b.1). External users in the last two years of the
       period came from Universities, Cardiff, Leeds, Bath, Birmingham, KCL, London, QUB
       (Ireland), Weizmann Institute (Israel), Nelson Mandela University (SA), and from industry,
       Sasol, BP, Nanoco, Oxford Instruments, UKAEA. The MXIF has supported >3,000 users
       within period.

4a.4 Contributions to economy and society
Contributions include environmental policy, improved manufacture, robotics, sports, and music
production.
    Policy engagement by Tyndall Manchester influenced carbon target setting from local to
       global scales, e.g. through presentations (e.g. Anderson annually at the UN Conference of
       the Parties), workshops and formal evidence submissions involving stakeholders such as
       the International Maritime Organization (ICS, Larkin), and Greater Manchester Combined
       Authorities (ICS, McLachlan).
    L. Li collaborated with JLR to develop laser surface cleaning for laser welding of aluminium
       alloys. From 2014, this technology, which reduces joint failures, was deployed at JLR to
       produce Land Rover cars with lighter aluminium car bodies
       (https://www.lasersystemseurope.com/news/jaguar-land-rover-sees-weight-savings-thanks-
       laser).
    In 2014 L. Li and colleagues commercialized the first super-resolution microsphere
       amplifying lens (SMAL) through a spin-out LIG Nanowise. With >£2.5m private investment,
       the lens led to an optical microscope with 50-nm resolution, which has been sold worldwide
       since 2019 with an annual revenue of £106k (https://find-and-update.company-
       information.service.gov.uk/company/08835324/filing-history).
    Hinduja in collaboration with ELE Advanced Technologies developed a robotic electrical
       chemical machining (ECM) system tailored for turbine-blade manufacturing through a KTP
       project. The technology has been deployed by the company for manufacturing turbine
       blades for aero-engines.
    Winterburn and Dolman’s 2018 spin-out Holiferm demonstrated reduced production costs
       of biosurfactants at two commercial sites to pilot scale. A control system was established, a
       scaled-up model verified, and the technology shown to produce sophorolipids from waste
       oil and sugar streams, offering industrial applications at low cost and risk.
    Miller and Saiani’s work on a self-assembling oligo-peptide led to PetGelDesign (founded
       October 2013), which after private and VC investment was relaunched in 2018 as
       Manchester BIOGEL, to make its hydrogels readily available to researchers in 3D cell
       culture, 3D bioprinting, and medical devices, with a distribution network covering Europe,
       India, and China. It was awarded two Innovate grants, a KTP with Imperial College to apply
       its PeptiGel® product, and a Sustainable Innovation Fund award to integrate its product
       into workflows of UK companies Cellesce and Qkine.


                                                                                           Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Robotics research by Lennox and Watson aided by EPSRC RAIN and RNE funding
       (§1c.3) led to 2018 spin-out ICE9 which sold ~100 low-cost robots in 2018-20 to
       universities in the UK, Europe, and Africa to support undergraduate teaching.
      Manchester Robotics, launched with £240k funding from UoM’s Innovation Factory (§1e.3),
       produced an educational tool Puzzlebot by Stancu and Soutis. It has attracted funding
       from industry (BAE Systems, Airbus) and been adopted for Control Systems MSc teaching,
       UCAS visits, and since COVID-19 for remote home use, including by UCAS participants.
      Advanced Hall Sensors, launched in 2011 by Missous, has continued to provide a route to
       exploit research into compound semiconductor, quantum-well, and Hall sensors. It received
       an Institute of Physics Business Innovation award in 2020 for commercializing devices
       based on university technology.
      Ejohwomu led a team of researchers from Manchester, Coventry, and Brighton
       Universities to deliver the rapid assessment of inhalation resistance of 150,000 uncertified
       medical face masks for Manchester City Council for protection against COVID-19 in 2020.
      Vijayaraghavan and colleagues developed a graphene-reinforced rubber composite
       delivering high grip and durability, with IAA and KTP projects generating underpinning data.
       It was patented by Inov-8 and UoM in 2017 and was introduced into athletic footwear with a
       new product line featuring G-Grip™. The G-series flagship shoes launched in 2018 were
       the first sports shoes to incorporate graphene, and were followed by Roclite G-grip shoes,
       also in 2018, and the first hiking shoes and boots to incorporate graphene outsoles
       (https://www.inov-8.com/blog/product-insights).
      Lyon’s research with Highways England identified the cause of early failure of bridge
       coatings, doubling time to first maintenance and saving ~£40 per square metre of structure.
      Research from CAFE4DM, lead Hardacre, resulted in Unilever designing a new facility for
       product personalization, with the STARM algorithm being scoped for the next generation of
       in‐silico product-innovation tools.
      Signal Wizard Systems was spun out from signal-processing research by Gaydecki and
       sells music-effects devices to professional musicians worldwide. R&D partners include the
       manufacturer of bespoke violins, Johannsson Violins (Reykjavik, Iceland,
       http://www.hansjohannsson.com/). The flagship product vSound was launched in 2018.

4a.5 Engagement with diverse communities and publics
Our outreach programmes are designed to inform and enthuse the public and to encourage school
children to consider engineering as a career (§4a.6). They are also an opportunity for our
researchers, especially PGRs (§2b.4) and those funded by outreach activities on research grants,
to gain experience and skills in communicating research to a general audience.

Media and public-engagement initiatives
The following highlights reflect initiatives by individuals and Research Groups.
      George delivered the three-part Royal Institution Christmas Lectures in 2014 televised by
       BBC Four (https://www.rigb.org/christmas-lectures/watch/2014/sparks-will-fly-how-to-hack-
       your-home). Across live TV and iPlayer views for the month after broadcast the Lectures
       had 2.2m views, and teaching material from the Lectures has continued to be used in UK
       schools. The material was developed by UoM’s Science and Engineering Research
       Innovation Hub who went on to create content for the Christmas Lectures in 2015 and
       2016. George also presented programmes on engineering for BBC Four, Two, and One


                                                                                          Page 43
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       North West, including Television’s Opening Night: How the Box was Born and Rise of the
       Robots.
      The Manchester Recycled Robot Orchestra was launched by George to raise the profile of
       robotics technology among school children and the wider public. Partly funded by the
       EPSRC, it performed at the 2016 Euroscience Open Forum, Manchester Science Festival
       and Science Museum, London. It toured the UK sponsored by the Royal Academy of
       Engineering in 2017 with attendees in Bristol, Edinburgh, and Manchester totalling ~1,000.
       Behind-the-Scenes footage appeared on BBC Make it Digital. The project legacy continues
       with electronic kits for building a robot orchestra. In total, ~100,000 children interacted
       directly with the Orchestra initiative.
      Tyndall Manchester’s researchers delivered TV, radio, and other media presentations on
       climate change including Larkin’s (then Bows-Larkin) 2015 Ted Global talk on Climate
       Change from the Royal Institution, with 1.3m views
       (https://www.ted.com/talks/alice_bows_larkin_climate_change_is_happening_here_s_how_
       we_adapt?language=en), and Anderson, Larkin, and McLachlan’s talks at Glastonbury
       2019 and Blue Dot Festivals 2017–19.
      Archer was voted a 2015 winner of the UK I’m an Engineer, Get Me Out of Here!
       (https://imanengineer.org.uk/) and Blanford a 2016 winner of the UK I’m a Scientist, Get
       Me Out of Here! (https://imascientist.org.uk/).
Large-scale Events
Teams from the Unit participate each year in large annual public outreach events, accessing
audiences who would not typically engage with science or engineering. Some examples follow:
      At ScienceX, an annual science pop-up at the Trafford Centre, Manchester
       (https://www.mub.eps.manchester.ac.uk/sciencex/), colleagues and students showcased
       their research, with over public 25,000 interactions in 2019 and an estimated 51% of under
       18 attendees being from BAME backgrounds. Contributions included the bioelectronics
       team (§1c.3) showcasing research on flexible electronic circuits.
      At UoM’s Community Festival (http://www.socialresponsibility.manchester.ac.uk/strategic-
       priorities/engaging-our-communities/public-events/community-festival-2019/) in 2019, with
       3,000 attendees, displays included the CAFE4DM team (§3a.3) demonstrating behaviour of
       non-Newtonian fluids.
      At Bluedot, the award-winning weekend of discovery at Jodrell Bank
       (https://www.jodrellbank.net/bluedot/), which attracted 25,000 people in 2019, concert-
       goers engaged with our research through talks and hands-on activities, including the Lego-
       based Mars rover.
      At the British Science Week Science Extravaganza in 2018, the campus hosted table-top
       activities, lectures, and workshops, welcoming ~1,000 students aged 11–13 years over four
       days. Aligned with our N8 Agri-Food research network, in one of our thematic activities
       What is your carbon FOODprint?, students picked items in a supermarket stall and
       calculated the carbon footprint at checkout.
      At the Manchester Science Festival, an activity exploring interactive fluid simulation using
       3D cameras was developed into the Knead for Speed: Aero Challenge, aided by an RAEng
       Ingenious award (2016-17). School children in groups of 20-30 designed an aerodynamic
       car in clay before scanning it into a virtual simulation.
      At the 2019 Pint of Science festival, the Robotics Group engaged hundreds of visitors.


                                                                                          Page 44
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      At the 2017 Cheltenham Science Festival, the Sensing Technologies group, funded by Find
       A Better Way, presented their Sensing Danger exhibit. Over six days it attracted ~5,000
       visitors, who used purpose-designed metal detectors to hunt for objects buried in sand
       while learning about landmine-detection technology.

4a.6 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
Future engineers and widening participation
We interact with 30–40 local schools/year in visit days in which student visitors are introduced to
our staff and researchers and state-of-the-art facilities (e.g. electron microscopes). Since 2017, our
Armourers Ambassadors (supported by the Armourer and Brasiers Company) have made up to 20
visits a year to local secondary schools delivering activities such as chocolate impact testing.
Extended interactions have also been fostered through our CDTs. The NOWNANO and M4DE
CDTs (§2b.2) each encourage public engagement activities, e.g. M4DE has run science projects
over several weeks with student groups from four local schools and colleges. Each year, at least
six students from disadvantaged backgrounds have been hosted on the Nuffield Research
Placements scheme.
Our residential Materials Science Summer School, held yearly since 2015, hosts 20–40 Year-10
students, giving them a flavour of university life. Between 30% and 50% of attendees come from
disadvantaged backgrounds and are helped by bursaries we provide to reduce attendance costs
from £300 to £25. Over 80% of attendees rated the Summer School as good or excellent, with
some schools in disadvantaged areas sending students year after year.
Internationally, the Unit’s staff have been approached to assist e.g. with US high school projects.
While small in scope due to their individual nature, we contributed to projects on 3D printing a
students discovered our work through our Open Research activity (§1g).
Other examples of widening-participation activity follow:
      UKRI Future Leadership Fellow Boland ran the #signscience campaign providing sign
       language STEM outreach, with >10k views.
      Our Women of Science campaign was initiated by PGR Archer in 2016, using funds won
       through I’m an Engineer Get Me Out of Here (§4a.5). The campaign educates the public on
       issues concerning equality in STEM and was awarded the 2020 Robert Perrin medal from
       IOM3 for outstanding commitment to outreach activity.
      Since 2014, ~20 PhD students acted as Widening Participation Fellows, delivering over
       1,000 hours of engagement activities with schools in disadvantaged areas.
      Since 2016, ~15 PGR students supervised research projects for the Manchester Access
       Programme (MAP), each year, a scheme supporting local students from low-participation
       neighbourhoods to apply to research intensive Universities.
      Since 2017, we have run the IET Faraday STEM activity challenge for 4-6 widening-
       participation schools (teams of 5–6) giving them experience of the University campus.
      Since 2018, PGR students provided workshops to support an IntoUniversity centre in North
       Manchester, part of a national initiative offering an after-school club for local widening-
       participation students. One PGR was nominated for a National Education Opportunities
       Network Award for their individual contribution (2018).
      To engage girls with engineering, our academics and researchers ran the Who Do You
       Want to BEE day in 2019 where 140 girls from Years 5 and 6 in targeted schools took part


                                                                                             Page 45
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       in workshops, talks, and speed networking. This activity was paired with the Athena Swan
       team’s support of female staff and students.
      In 2019 UoM secured a sponsorship of £10k from Whirlpool to expand the regional final of
       the IET First Lego League, a robotics competition for school children. Through the
       sponsorship the event doubled in size to 90 children and 20 teachers in widening-
       participation schools.
Committee membership of learned societies and professional organizations
Staff served on >70 committees of learned societies and professional organizations, including the
following:
      Ainsworth Chair Welding Institute Engineering Research Committee
      Barnes CIGRE Working Group B4-57
      Blanford Faraday Division Council RSC; Vice-Chair, Joint Colloids Committee RSC
      Bourne Business & Community Engagement HSE
      Burke President Royal Microscopical Society
      Carbone IUPAC Polymer Terminology
      Cartmell EC COST Biomedicine and Molecular Biosciences Domain; Council Tissue
       Engineering and Regenerative Medicine International Society, EU Chapter; Secretary UK
       Tissue and Cell Engineering Society
      Cernik Vice-Chair European Powder Diffraction Committee
      Cotton CIGRE Working Group D1.63
      Ding Z.-T. Technical Committee (TC) Nonlinear Systems and Control, IEEE Control
       Systems Society; TC Adaptive and Learning Systems, International Federation of
       Automatic Control
      Dudek IEEE Neural Systems and Applications TC; Chair Sensory Systems TC IEEE
       Circuits and Systems
      Edmondson MACRO Group RSC
      Fan Committee British Zeolite Association
      Filippone Aerospace Technology Institute, Aerodynamics Strategic Committee
      Freer European Ceramic Society Trust
      Gardner President International Society Clinical Spectroscopy
      George Vice President IET
      Gong BSI TCI/024, Physical Testing of Textiles
      Grieve IET Standards Smart Agriculture
      Gresil Chair Structural Health Monitoring, British Institute of Non-Destructive Testing;
       American Society of Mechanical Engineers NDE Committee
      Heath IEEE Control Systems Society TC System Identification and Adaptive Control
      Jarman Chair International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) TC14
      Jivkov Chair TC2 European Structural Integrity Society
      Joekar-Niasar Chair UK Chapter International Society of Porous Media
      Katnam IAG for NPL Composites, Adhesives and Polymers
      Keshmiri Council IMechE
      Kopsidas ECOFYS European Copper Institute
      Lea-Langton Combustion Institute Committee; UK Aerosol Society Committee; Society of
       Automotive Engineers Committees
                                                                                          Page 46
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Leay Treasurer Miller Trust for Radiation Chemistry
      Lennox Vice-chair IChemE Process Management and Control SIG
      Li L. Vice President of Association of Industrial Laser Users
      Li Y. China National Textile Standard Technology Committee
      Majewski IoP Printing and Graphics Science Group Committee
      Martin Chair, Biochemical Engineering SIG, IChemE; Medals & Prizes Committee IChemE
      Masters Chair British Liquid Crystal Society
      Matthews UK Tribology Network Steering Committee (IMechE, IET, IOM3, IOP); IOM3
       Engineering Division Board; Society of Vacuum Coaters Board
      Moore UK Surface Analysis Forum
      Ozanyan Vice-President for Publications IEEE Sensors Council; e-Books Editorial Advisory
       Board, IOP
      Pereira Da Fonte Fluid Mixing Processes SIG (IChemE)
      Persaud President International Society for Olfaction and Chemical Sensing; Institute for
       Bioengineering of Catalonia; Secretary and Treasurer, European Chemoreception
       Organization; Treasurer UK Semiochemistry Network
      Peyton Secretary, Founding Member, International Society for Industrial Process
       Tomography
      Rogers UK Fluids Network, Chair SPHERIC Steering Committee
      Sampson TAPPI International Research Management Committee
      Sarkisov Board of Directors International Adsorption Society
      Shokri Soil Physics and Hydrology Executive Committee, Soil Science Society of America
      Thomas Finance Committee IOP; DLS User Committee
      Wilkinson IOM3 Polymer Board
      Wright Hon Sec Instrument Science & Technology Group Committee IOP
      Zhou Light Metals Board IOM3
Support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research
Interdisciplinarity is central to the Unit’s Research Themes, infrastructure, and activity (§1b–§1f,
§4a.3). The following are some individual examples of national and international collaborations
supporting interdisciplinary research:
      The UK Catalysis Hub (§3a.2), resulting in new non-thermal plasma catalysis
       (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41929-018-0206-2).
      DISCOVERER (§3a.2), satellite materials tested externally on the International Space
       Station during 2020.
      Collaboration with Medicine and Chemistry at Leeds on drug-induced benefits of exercise
       (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-017-00429-3).
      Novel tendon attachment and repair strategy (MRC, device patented PCT/EP20/056104)
       trialled with Liverpool veterinarians.
      International collaboration on water-TiO2 interactions including ESRF and DLS and
       institutions from the UK, Spain, France, and Switzerland (https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4793,
       https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b04383).
Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
Members of the Unit provided national and international leadership in grand challenge areas:

                                                                                              Page 47
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      The national Advanced Materials agenda, through our leadership of Royce (§1f.1), and, in
       the EU, our key roles in the H2020 Graphene Flagship project (§3a.2).
      The Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research (UEA, Manchester, Cardiff, Newcastle,
       Fudan), with leadership of Tyndall Manchester (§1f.1,§4a.3).
      The design and operation of dams to support sustainable development through our
       leadership of the FutureDAMS project, with 6 partners and 30 collaborators around the
       globe (§3a.2).
      Support for the Government’s nuclear agenda, e.g. through our leadership in robotics for
       radioactive environments (RAIN, CARMA, §4a.2).
In addition, staff served as academic experts to >40 national and international government bodies
and institutions, including the following:
      Anderson Scottish Climate Assembly and Welsh Assembly Government Climate Change
       Committee; Ministry for Foreign Affairs, The World Bank
      Azapagic Parliamentary Commission for Manufacturing
      Burke Irradiation of Structural Materials (OECD-NEA); Science Advisory Board Atomic
       Energy Canada
      Crossley Greater Manchester Energy Advisory Group
      Gallego Schmid UN Life Cycle Assessment Initiative
      Gough Climate Assembly UK
      Harou DEFRA Business & Community Engagement Panel
      Iacovides Nuclear Innovation and Research Advisory Board for BEIS
      Jones UK representative IAEA Decommissioning Network
      Kopsidas Hellenic Quality Assurance and Accreditation
      Levi Chief Executive Panel Electricity North West
      McLachlan UK Net Zero Transport Board; Chair Greater Manchester Environment Plan
       Implementation Forum; Climate Assembly UK
      Ozanyan Sensors and Instrumentation Leadership Committee, BEIS
      Revell European Commission, Research Executive Agency
      Sharrad Molten Salts Advisory Group to BEIS
      Smith, A. Advisory Electrical Working Technology Group, Rolls-Royce and MoD
      Thornley Chair UK Bioenergy Stakeholders DECC; UK-Canada Biochar Network; Chair
       Advisory Group, National Committee Climate Change
      Vijayaraghavan European Committee Standardization CEN/TC 352/WG 1
      Watson International Scientific Advisory Panel ORCA Hub UK
      Yang Panel Ministry of Science and Technology of China
4b. Indicators of wider influence

4b.1 Journal editorships and books
Along with routine peer review work for research journals, 95 staff served as Associate, Assistant,
or Guest Editors of research journals, and 13 served as journal Editors-in-Chief:
      Ainsworth International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping (Elsevier)
      Azapagic Sustainable Production and Consumption (IChemE)
      Bartolo Biomanufacturing Reviews (Springer)
      Matthews Surface and Coatings Technology (Elsevier)
                                                                                           Page 48
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Foster D. Vision Research (Elsevier)
      Ozanyan IEEE Sensors Journal
      Thornley Biomass & Bioenergy (Elsevier)
      Hayes Journal of Fashion Marketing and Management (Emerald Group)
      Lyon Corrosion Engineering Science and Technology (Taylor & Francis)
      Smith IET Research Journal on Electrical Systems in Transportation
      Terzija International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems (Elsevier)
      Webb Biochemical Engineering Journal (Elsevier)
      Withers International Materials Reviews IOM3 (Taylor & Francis)
Staff authored or edited 21 technical volumes.

4b.2 Members of research councils and grants committees
Over 50 staff served as EPSRC Full College members, joining others reviewing for the BBSRC,
ESRC, MRC, NERC, NC3Rs, UKRI, Innovate UK, Department of Health, Wellcome Trust, Royal
Society, British Council, DLS, and internationally for the US Department of Energy, NSERC
Canada, European Commission, European Research Council, also the American Chemical
Society, Berlin Synchrotron facility, Chinese Academy of Sciences, CONACYT (Mexico), Czech
Science Foundation, Danish Research Centre, Dutch Research Council, Flanders Research
Foundation, Israel Science Foundation, MAX IV (Sweden), Ministry of Education and Science of
Kazakhstan, National Science Centre (Poland), Research Council of Norway, Royal College of
Surgeons in Ireland, Science Foundation Ireland, South Africa Science Foundation, Swedish
Research Council, and others.
Several staff served in an advisory capacity:
      Ainsworth Royal Society Newton Advanced Fellowship Committee
      Azapagic Helmholtz Association International Advisory Panel
      Carrasco Gomez Ramon y Cajal Fellowship Panel (Spain)
      Cruz Cabeza Scientific Advisory Board, Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (CCDC)
      Dickson Scientific Advisory Board, National Institute for Bioprocessing Research and
       Training, Ireland
      Gardner DLS Scientific Advisory Committee
      Gray EPSRC Advisory Board, Innovative Manufacturing of Food
      Grieve UK Research Council Agriculture & Food Security Strategy and Policy Panel; UK
       STFC 21st Century Challenges Strategy Panel
      Matthews EPSRC Strategic Advisory Network; RAEng Membership Selection Panel
      Preuss Advisory Council ISIS; Beam-line Review Panel, DLS; Chair SAC, European
       Spallation Source; Advisory Board Australian Synchrotron
      Wang H. Chinese NSF Sub-committee Information Technology
      Withers EPSRC Scientific Advisory Team for Engineering; EPSRC Review Panel Culham
       Centre for Fusion Energy; Royal Society and RAEng University Research Fellowships
      Young Royal Society Membership Selection Committee; Royal Society and RAEng
       University Research Fellowships




                                                                                       Page 49
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4b.3 Fellows of learned societies and professional organizations
Over 80 of our academics have been recognized by election as Fellows of learned societies or
professional organizations, including the Royal Academy of Engineering (16 in place in period
including election of Hinduja, Lennox, O’Brien, and Soutis), the Royal Society (7 in place in
period including election of Withers), and the Royal Irish Academy (Hardacre), also the IChemE,
IET, IMA, InstMC, IoP, IMechE, IMMM, IAgrE, PhysSoc, RAeS, RSC, and in the USA, the IEEE,
LIA, and OSA.

4b.4 Honours and prizes
Over 50 personal honours, medals, and prizes were awarded to staff.
Withers was awarded the inaugural Regis Chair in Materials, O’Brien CBE for services to science
and engineering, Azapagic MBE for services to sustainability and carbon footprinting, and George
MBE for services to engineering through public engagement.
Awards of medals and prizes included the following:
      Boland Jocelyn Bell Burnell Medal and Prize (Institute of Physics); Philip Leverhulme Prize
       (Leverhulme Trust); Isambard Kingdom Brunel Award (British Science Association)
      Burke Henry Clifton Sorby Award (International Metallographic Society); President's Award
       of the MIcroAnalysis Society
      Foster D. Verriest Medal (International Colour Vision Society)
      Dickson Peter Dunnill Award (BioIndustry Association)
      George Rooke Medal (RAEng); Harold Hartley Medal (Institute of Measurement & Control);
       Michael Faraday Medal (Royal Society)
      Haigh Rosenhain Medal (Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining, IOM3)
      Haigh Royal Microscopy Society Medal for Innovation in Applied Microscopy for
       Engineering and Physical Sciences
      Keshmiri Frontiers of Engineering in Development Award (RAEng)
      Kiss Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award
      Li L. Donald Julius Groen Prize (Institution of Mechanical Engineers, IMechE); Arthur L.
       Schawlow Award (Laser Institute of America); Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit
       Award
      Launder Energy Systems Award (American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics);
       Nusselt-Reynolds Prize (World Conference on Heat Transfer, Fluid mechanics and
       Thermodynamics)
      Lyon Guy Bengough Award (IOM3); European Corrosion Medal (European Federation of
       Corrosion)
      Mancarella Newton Prize (British Council)
      Matthews Tom Bell Surface Engineering Medal (IOM3)
      McDonald George Stephenson Gold Medal (IMechE)
      Miller Philip Leverhulme Prize (Leverhulme Trust)
      Missous Brian Mercer award (Royal Society)
      Nair Moseley Medal and Prize (Institute of Physics); Philip Leverhulme Prize (Leverhulme
       Trust); Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz International Creativity Prize for Water
      O’Brien Longstaff Prize (RSC)
      Panteli Newton Prize (British Council)

                                                                                          Page 50
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Pickering Frank Fitzgerald Medal (IOM3)
      Preuss Grunfeld Memorial Award and Medal (IOM3); William J Kroll Zirconium Medal
       (American Society for Testing and Materials)
      Alonso Rasgado Ohtli award (Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
      Robson Hume Rothery Award (IOM3)
      Saiani Philip Leverhulme Prize (Leverhulme Trust)
      Santoro Carl Wagner Medal of Excellence in Electrochemical Engineering (European
       Federation of Chemical Engineering); Tajima Prize (International Society of
       Electrochemistry)
      Smith R. Sargent Medal of the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE)
      Su AJF Gold Medal Prize (World Intellectual Property Organization)
      Szekely IAAM Scientist Medal (International Association of Advanced Materials)
      Webb Council Medal (IChemE); Donald Medal (IChemE)
      Withers George Stephenson Gold Medal (IMechE); Platinum Medal (IOM3)
      Yin H.Turing Fellow (Alan Turing Institute)
      Young Platinum Medal (IOM3)
Over 50 prizes were awarded to staff for conference and journal papers.

4b.5 Invited keynote lectures and conference chairs
Academic staff gave over 1,600 oral conference presentations, including 680 invited keynote or
plenary lectures at conferences in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China, Columbia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Malaysia, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Russian Federation, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey,
Singapore, Spain, UK, USA.
Staff chaired or organized over 175 national conferences and 198 international conferences in
Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany,
Greece, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Nigeria, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Taiwan, Tanzania,
Turkey, UK, USA, and Zambia.

4b.6 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training
The Unit partnered 14 different universities across 10 CDTs (§2b.2). The Unit also participated in
2+2 PhD schemes with Singapore A*STAR and Melbourne University (§2b.2).




                                                                                           Page 51
