UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)
Institution: University of Oxford
Unit of Assessment: UOA-20 Social Work and Social Policy


1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Research in the Department of Social Policy and Intervention
Oxford’s UOA-20 is largely congruent with the Department of Social Policy and Intervention
(DSPI), a multidisciplinary centre for research and teaching in social policy and social
interventions. We predominantly describe DSPI strategy and environment here, but UOA-20
includes six additional researchers from other departments (see page 2).
DSPI has a dual focus in multidisciplinary research and graduate teaching: international
comparative welfare state analysis that includes research on policy-making and inequality
outcomes; the development and systematic evaluation of social interventions, aimed at
improving individual and family welfare across the globe.
Our researchers undertake applied and basic research aiming to contribute societally relevant
and scientifically rigorous knowledge that advances scholarship and social reform. The
Department is home to a global community of academics and researchers with a range of
disciplinary backgrounds including criminology, economics, political science, psychology, public
health, social policy, social work, sociology and urban planning.
DSPI research is organised into two main research units undertaking discrete programmes:
      Centre for Evidence-Based Intervention (CEBI) provides rigorous evidence on real-
       world challenges that currently face populations in low-, middle- and high-income
       countries. Sub-specialisms within CEBI are: violence prevention, child and family mental
       health and well-being, social inequalities, poverty, public health, and innovative research
       methods.
      Oxford Institute of Social Policy (OISP) investigates underlying social problems,
       welfare systems, policy instruments, ongoing policy debates and politics of social reform,
       focusing on: gender inequality; family and child policy; labour market developments;
       pension reforms and old age inequality; education, social policies and inequalities;
       welfare, poverty and social exclusion; economic inequality and prosperity.
Since 2014, DSPI has undergone substantial transformation under the headship of Rebecca
Surender (2015-17, now Pro Vice Chancellor of Equality and Diversity) and Bernhard
Ebbinghaus (2017-20).
Following REF2014 and DSPI’s multiannual review (2009-15), we strategically expanded
expertise in Evidence-Based Social Intervention and Policy Evaluation (EBSIPE) with a new
Chair (Barlow, 2016) and three Associate Professor (AP) recruitments (Humphreys, 2014;
Reeves, 2018; Chrisinger, 2019) in the areas of family health intervention; criminology; health
and social inequalities; urban planning. As part of this strategy, DSPI closed its population
studies cluster (OXPOP) following the retirement of Coleman and departure of Gietel-Basten,
and in recognition that other Oxford units cover demography.
In (Comparative) Social Policy, Nolan built a research cluster on economic inequality as part of
Oxford Martin School’s Institute of New Economic Thinking (INET). Several new faculty
recruitments (Ebbinghaus to Chair, 2017; three APs: Naczyk, 2016; Vlandas, 2018; Ciccia, 2020)
strengthened Comparative Social Policy, particularly in the areas of pensions, employment, long-
term care and the politics of social reform.




                                                                                             Page 1
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

Chart 1. UOA-20: DSPI researchers and other university researchers (26.35 FTE)

 • Department of Social                                                    •+5.6 FTE REF UOA-
  Policy & Intervention                                                     20 scholars (outside
  (DSPI), 20.75 FTE                                                           DSPI) in Education,
  researchers                                                             Global & Area Studies,
  contributes 4/5 of the                                                      Population Ageing,
  research to REF                   Centre for    Oxford                     INET/Martin School,
  UOA-20                      Evidence-Based      Institute of                  Blavatnik School
  DSPI’s                          Intervention    Social Policy                  •of Government
  CEBI & OISP                           (CEBI)    (OISP)
  provide the                   DSPI faculty &    DSPI faculty &
  research                         researchers    researchers
  structure




                                   UKRI GCRF       Institute of New
                               Accelerate Hub      Economic Thinking
                                & Parenting for    (INET)
                                Lifelong Health    Oxford Martin School
                              research projects    EEG projects
          • Major                led by Cluver     led by Nolan                   • Major
      externally funded                                                      externally funded
      research cluster                                                       research cluster
           in CEBI                                                                in OISP




See Chart 1, UOA-20 submits 26.35 FTE as independent researchers of whom 20.75 FTE (or
23 people) are employed at DSPI and six researchers outside DSPI (5.6 FTE in UOA-
20/Category A). DSPI is one of the smaller departments for teaching and research in Oxford’s
Social Science Division, employing 53 staff in total (or 46.98 FTE), including administrators and
junior researchers who are not REF-eligible.
Outside DSPI, UOA-20 includes six colleagues from within the Social Sciences Division
working on social policy related topics, amongst them two scholars from Blavatnik School of
Government (BSG), reflecting its public policy programme: former DSPI HoD Prof Peter Kemp
(BSG Vice Dean for Academic Affairs) and Dr Eleanor Carter (Acting Research Director of Go-
Lab which works to improve social outcomes). In addition UOA-20 returns: Prof Christopher
Gerry from Oxford School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA), expert on health, welfare and
Russia; Prof Sarah Harper, Director of the Oxford Institute of Population Ageing (OIPA) who also
leads the Oxford Programme on Fertility, Education and Environment; Julie Selwyn, Professor
of Education and Adoption, leads the Hadley research programme within the Rees Centre, which
works to improve life outcomes for care-experienced children and young people; and Dr Max
Roser, Director of the Oxford Martin Programme on Global Development and founder of Our
World in Data.




                                                                                             Page 2
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

1.2 Success in achieving our REF 2014 Research Strategy
In our REF 2014 research strategy we primarily focused on expanding our research base in
terms of diversifying and increasing our research income, in addition to our international policy
collaboration and the impact of our research.
a) Expansion of our research base/income and international policy collaboration is indicated
by our diversified portfolio with two large-scale international research hubs and a series of related
grants:
(1) The UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Hub directed by Lucie Cluver
(£18.53m; £9.64m for Oxford) in addition to her European Research Council (ERC) Consolidator
Grant (£1.48m) amongst other projects.
(2) The INET Employment, Equity and Growth (EEG) cluster led by Brian Nolan, who won an
ERC Synergy Grant in collaboration with Piketty (Paris) and Saez (Berkeley) (£7.85m; £1.8m to
Oxford).
Further DSPI successes include an ERC Starting Grant ‘Changing Elites’ (Reeves, £1.2m) and
a cross-university Leverhulme Biopsychosocial Doctoral Training Centre beginning in 2021
(Barlow, £1.3m).
Examples of other major national and international achievements include research focused
on child and family policy in Europe (Daly, Dobrotić, Meinck), US gun crime (Humphreys), gender
(Bennett, Ciccia, Daly), and UK welfare reform (Bennett, Reeves). Since 2014, DSPI has
expanded in new areas of policy evaluation and expertise, in addition to rebalancing its staffing
more equally between its two research units (CEBI and OISP).
b) In terms of income UOA-20 has grown its annual research budget by around 64% from
on average £1.5million (REF2014) to £2.45million (REF2021). Annual research income per
researcher is now £93,134 (26.35 FTE REF Category A staff; 20.75 DSPI and 5.6 externals) and
£52,236 per 46.98 FTE overall DSPI staff (includes 26.23 FTE staff in addition to REF Category
A). DSPI has also diversified its funding portfolio (i.e. every EU grant holder also holds non-
EU grants) including UKRI GCRF (Cluver); Nuffield Foundation (Bukodi/Nolan); Citigroup
(Nolan); Wellcome Trust (Reeves); UNICEF (Daly, Lachman), LEGO Foundation (Lachman);
WHO (Gardner); and EU ERC grants (Cluver, Dobrotić, Lachman/Gardner, Nolan, Reeves).
c) Our achievements in terms of expanding our impact include significant extension of two
of our 2014 impact case studies (Cluver, Gardner), for which Cluver received the ESRC
International Impact Prize 2017 for her AIDS prevention work; in addition to the development
of a number of further impact case studies from across the UoA (see Section 4).
We have enabled the development of impact through application for project grants, such as
Oxford University Innovation GCRF Social Impact Fund which, for example, provided a start-up
grant for the Cluver team ‘Caregiver Adolescent Supportive App (£61,000)’, and by focusing on
collaborating (see 3.1) (e.g. working with national and international partners to draw on and
develop their expertise and local knowledge; ensure that we undertake collaborative field
research, policy development, and practice; shortening the pathways to impact); consulting
(e.g. listening to stakeholders’ views, concerns and insights through public meetings; discussions
with policy makers, civic society partners and other stakeholder groups, in order co-design our
research and shape our research agenda); engaging with the public, policymakers and
practitioners to ensure policies and practices are informed by the needs of wider society, and
that all outputs are accessible and widely disseminated using social media (website, blogs,
newsletters, twitter: @DSPI_Oxford); press releases and media interviews; participation in
science festivals; and delivery of public events for targeted audiences in nationally and
internationally.
The above outputs have contributed to annual QS World University Rankings by Subject 2017-
20 in which DSPI was ranked among the global Top 3 (in 2020: #2) in Social Policy and
Administration.



                                                                                                Page 3
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

1.3 Five-year Research Plan
DSPI’s strategic research objectives for the next five years are to build on our strengths by
consolidating and further developing the following areas:
      1) multidisciplinary and international collaborations;
      2) comparative and methodological expertise;
      3) our diverse funding portfolio;
      4) developing and supporting our ECRs;
      5) our impact and top ranking in social policy and intervention research.
These strategic goals are consistent with the university’s strategic plan to pursue rigorous and
high impact research that will contribute to key societal challenges. To achieve our goals, we
have established a Research Strategy Group (RSG), which will continue to meet twice termly
with the aim of collectively identifying research and impact priorities, ensuring that all
appointments meet the strategically agreed expertise profile, and promoting the development of
all ECRs.
Goal 1: We will build on and expand our multidisciplinary and international collaborations
by consolidating the existing UKRI GCRF hub (Cluver) and INET inequality research centred
around the ERC Synergy Grant (Nolan). To this end, we are currently working on a new centre
grant that expands on the work of Lachman, Cluver and Gardner, in addition to supporting the
development the work of other researchers across Europe. We are also planning to secure
funding for an integrative research centre focussing not only on shared expertise in the areas
of social policy and intervention analysis for families and young people, but increased
multidisciplinary working; this could potentially focus on developing a centre from the
multidisciplinary cross-University Leverhulme Biopsychosocial Doctoral Scholarships
programme.
Goal 2: DSPI has achieved national and international recognition in terms of its comparative
and methodological expertise and we will continue to pursue this in the next five years through
further appointments including to the Chair in Comparative Social Policy and to our methods hub;
and through further grant applications.
Goal 3: As part of our five-year strategy we will continue to seek to diversify our research
funding portfolio by building not only on national/international public and private funding
opportunities within the sector, but by a) developing our cross-disciplinary research to enable us
to access wider funders (e.g. MRC) and also through b) building on opportunities to link with
other sectors including industry.
Goal 4: We will continue to nurture Early Career Researcher (ECR) development, helping them
seek external funding and engage in impactful research, through a twice-termly focus on
individual ECRs in the RSG; a training programme co-designed with them; and mentoring by
senior staff.
Goal 5: Societal impact is central to our research strategy and we will continue to develop this
by a) funding of two in-house research facilitators who advise on stakeholder and public
engagement in project planning stages; b) buy-in to a new post-REF Research Impact Facilitator
at divisional level who will support evidence gathering and training of ECRs. We will also continue
to prioritise consulting, collaborating and engaging with the public and key stakeholders.
1.4 Open research environment
Our researchers worked with the University and Plan S to make research Open Access by 2020.
We aim to ensure the widest possible engagement and we ensure that all datasets developed
are publicly available. Notably, Max Roser’s Our World in Data (OWID) is a widely recognized
long-term international data project on global challenges, social trends and country profiles.
OWID provides open access information with nearly 3,000 graphs, 70,000 data entries for
analysis by researchers, policy makers, and the interested public with wide media coverage. All


                                                                                              Page 4
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

OWID tools developed to create data visualizations are free to access (available open source on
GitHub).
An Open Science culture is central to DSPI’s research transparency strategy, and for this we
have developed a training approach that regularly updates researchers and graduate students
with regard to these issues. For example, all EBSIPE students are expected to use structured
critical appraisal schemes and reporting guidelines for their theses. Academic staff and doctoral
students pre-register their studies, and trials and systematic reviews are pre-registered in
repositories (e.g. PROSPERO, Clinicaltrials.gov, PsyArXiv).
DSPI’s Research Methods Hub provides regular sessions on good and emerging research
practice and has invited many speakers on research transparency. Our teaching includes a
specific session on transparency, replication and reproducibility. Many CEBI researchers and
EBSIPE students have been involved in collaborative research on research transparency and
have published papers on this topic (e.g. on reporting guidelines, conflicts of interest - Gardner,
Humphreys, Montgomery); in promoting transparency standards to journal editorial practice
(Barlow, Gardner, Spreckelsen), and in editing a special issue on research transparency
(Gardner). DSPI staff contribute to the University-wide ‘Reproducible Research Oxford’, and the
Berlin-Oxford Summer School on Open Research (2019).
1.5 Research integrity
Oxford’s high standards of research integrity are met through our ethical frameworks and
processes. The Departmental Research Ethics Committee (DREC) has 9 DSPI members
including current Chair (Lachman) and applies approved university processes to review over 80
Research Ethics applications for staff and students per year. Due to the sensitive nature of much
of our research, these reviews provide a significant basis for each project plan. Cluver’s team is
frequently asked to present their exemplary ethical practices in Sub-Saharan Africa through their
co-created research by the University and more widely. In recognition of her expertise, Professor
Cluver is Chair of Oxford’s Social Sciences’ and Humanities’ ethics board.
All researchers are mandated to attend University-provided training sessions to raise
awareness of recent changes in ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and
standards. New staff are fully inducted and requested to train in Equality & Diversity, Implicit Bias
and Recruitment and Selection. Procedures are in place to ensure that academic recruitment
involves equal gender representation on all selection committees. The Department assures
students and staff that they will not be treated less favourably on grounds which include sexual
orientation and gender reassignment. During induction week and LGBT+ history months, DSPI
displays rainbow flags to celebrate its diversity. Prior to Athena Swan and more intensively as a
result of it, we promote gender equality in social science through events and mentoring.
The range of training and development offered by the University across research, teaching,
administration, and professional development is extensive. Training opportunities provided by
the University are actively disseminated via newsletters and encouraged in regular mentoring
and supervision meetings, including annual career development reviews (CDRs). DSPI is
supportive of individuals who wish to attend University schemes including Springboard, a skills
and confidence building programme for women, and Oxford Senior Women’s Mentoring Network
(Grade 9+). Our staff take full advantage of the range of Social Sciences Division career
development training, including teaching preparation, journal publishing, proposal writing, project
and data management, and knowledge exchange. One female DSPI academic said “I have had
huge and rewarding career development opportunities since I have worked here.”




                                                                                                Page 5
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

2. People
2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
As an interdisciplinary department engaged in the teaching of international graduate students
and critical, societally impactful, collaborative research, DSPI aims to recruit, train, and
sustain diverse academic, research and administrative teams, with early career
development (ECR) being core to our approach. Academic staff numbers and posts by grade
are evenly spread across the two main research units (CEBI, OISP) following strategic
adjustment after DSPI’s multiannual review 2009-15.
2.1.1 Staffing strategy
A key aim is the expansion of faculty’s expertise and widening of its focus. The Department
has used HEFCE/Research England funding to make several successful recruitments since
2014. Among its leadership positions, Professor Bernhard Ebbinghaus (UOA-Coordinator)
began his appointment in January 2017 and became Head of Department (October 2017 until
December 2020), bringing expertise as former director of the largest social research institute
at a German university and building up a graduate school for economics and social sciences
in Mannheim. As Mercator Fellow he remains associated with the Collaborative Research
Centre on Political Economy of Reform in Mannheim.
Professor Jane Barlow (REF Co-ordinator), who returned to Oxford from the University of
Warwick, has been Research Director and Deputy Head of Department, and took over as Head
of Department in January 2021. She holds the new Chair in Evidence-Based Intervention and
Policy Evaluation, and has a wide portfolio of grants including leading the Warwick Consortium
national evaluation of the A Better Start Programme (a £7million grant from the National Lottery
Community Fund), lead for the Early Intervention workstream of the recently awarded NIHR
Children and Family’s Policy Research Unit (circa £5million), and most recently lead for a cross-
university biopsychosocial doctoral training centre, funded by the Leverhulme Trust (circa
£1.35million).
DSPI’s staffing strategy is to expand opportunities for early career, mid-level and senior
members across the core research areas, and provide an infrastructure wherein they can
conduct excellent research that addresses significant national and global societal issues. Since
2014, our academic and project support staff numbers have increased due to success in
research funding. In particular, the Cluver team currently has 8.4 FTE dedicated support staff
working on the UKRI GCRF hub and portfolio projects. Further increases are expected (after
7/2020) of at least six postdoc/senior researchers with new ERC funded projects (Reeves,
Nolan) and pipeline applications.
New appointments since REF2014 include two Chairs (Barlow, Ebbinghaus), two research-
funded Professors (Cluver, Nolan); and five Associate Professors (Ciccia, Chrisinger, Naczyk,
Reeves, Vlandas). Since 2014 one Chair retired (Walker), the former Head of Department
(Seeleib-Kaiser) moved to University of Tübingen, and there were career moves of three APs
to a full professorship in Birmingham (Montgomery), a professorship in Hong-Kong (HKUST,
Gietel-Basten), and a tenured AP in Milan (Mattei). We are currently planning to recruit a new
Statutory Chair in Comparative Social Policy and two further departmental lecturers, one of
whom will lead the qualitative work of the Methods Hub.




                                                                                              Page 6
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

Chart 2. UOA-20 staff analyses July 2020



                                              Rest of World    Unknown
                                                  10%            4%


              Male                                                            EU
             44.8%                                                           45%
                        Female                               UK
                        55.2%                               41%




DSPI submits 20.75 FTE academics for UOA-20, including six Professors, seven Associate
Professors, two part-time Senior Research Fellows (combined 0.45 FTE), one Marie Curie
Research Fellow (0.5 FTE), two Department Lecturers, one full-time Senior Research Officer,
one Research Officer (0.8FTE), three independent ECRs. UOA-20 includes 5.6 FTE not based
in DSPI; four Professors and two postdocs. Further planned appointments include recruitment
to the (vacant) Barnett Chair of Social Policy. A Department Lecturer in Quantitative Methods
to secure the Methods Hub activities has been appointed as of September 2020 (replacing
Spreckelsen, now at Glasgow). We will enable further research endeavours of colleagues by
recruiting two dedicated teaching posts, including a Deputy Joint Course Leader. Staff
distribution on gender and nationality is shown in Chart 2.
CEBI research cluster on social interventions in Africa. Lucie Cluver joined DSPI in 2008,
was appointed to full Professor from AP in 2015, and has been Research Professor with
Nuffield College since 2019. Her team includes 50 staff who have undertaken extensive
fieldwork in South Africa during REF2021 period. In 2017 an Oxford University subsidiary
company (Oxford Research South Africa) was established to facilitate management of fieldwork
social interventions and provide a local infrastructure. Committed to supporting African, early-
career and female researchers, all recruitment explicitly opens to those with caring
responsibilities (Cluver, Wessels), including childcare and travel for meetings to allow parents
to engage. Early-career researchers are actively identified to support their potential.
OISP research cluster on inequality in advanced economies led by Nolan (since 2014
Research Professor in association with Nuffield College), involves interdisciplinary collaboration
between DSPI and Oxford Martin School’s INET (described in Oxford’s Institutional
Environment Statement). This provides significant opportunity to engage a wide range of
Oxford researchers across economics and other disciplines relating to inequality. His core team
comprises seven post-doctoral and senior researchers, and two fully integrated doctoral
students. Collaborations within DSPI include research with Bukodi on inequality and
intergenerational mobility, Ebbinghaus on welfare state reforms, and Vlandas’ on political
processes. Several of Nolan’s team moved to careers at LSE, OECD, or European
Commission, and won grants: British Academy (Postdoc Fellowship, Paskov), Gates
Foundation (Roser).
2.1.2 Staff development
Key aims of our staff development strategy are:
Proactively support the development of all staff: Since 2017/18, DSPI’s annual Career
Development Reviews (CDR) have been compulsory for all staff. A voluntary annual appraisal
is offered to our academic faculty, in addition to Oxford’s five-year appraisal for Associate

                                                                                               Page 7
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

Professors and Professors. Line managers deliver CDRs and mid-year updates, supported by
HR, to review previous objectives and set annual objectives. The unit provides continued
mentoring and support to fixed-term contract researchers to become independent. DPSI
advises on and supports applications to Oxford’s internal John Fell Fund (JFF) and other
internal pump priming opportunities for scholars, plus encourages external funding
applications. Departmental Lecturers (DLs) have also been enabled through workload
allocation, to dedicate at least 20% of working time to independent research and development.
All researchers receive career mentoring.
Providing the infrastructure to enable all researchers to undertake world leading
research: This includes a) an active Research Strategy Group that meets twice termly to
implement the Department’s research strategy; b) supporting the funding of a research
facilitation team comprising two in-house specialist staff to promote opportunities, and to work
proactively with researchers and Research Services. The team discuss the project planning
concept, advise on process and project management delivery; budget planning and staffing (in
collaboration with HR). Researchers receive advice from divisional and department facilitators
on good practice in research dissemination, data sharing, research ethics, research impact,
public engagement with research, and knowledge exchange. Researchers work with facilitators
and Departmental leadership to develop achievable projects which maximise opportunities for
development. Each application receives feedback from the HoD or Research Director before
submission. Oxford’s EU team comprehensively supports EU applications and projects.
Early career development: DSPI currently hosts seven Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
with three submitted to REF. They conduct research in externally-funded projects and
undertake light graduate teaching (or thesis supervision) roles to support their career
development. The Department has been successful in placing many postdocs in academic and
policy-relevant careers (see Section 2 below). Training and supporting ECRs to become the
next generation of research leaders. DSPI is committed to supporting ECRs to retain existing
academic talent, and foster their contribution to the scientific community and society beyond
academia. Our termly ECR forum facilitates peer support, provides advice from senior
colleagues on research strategy, advances career-building, and signposts university support,
especially Social Sciences Division. ECRs are enabled to make presentations at DSPI
seminars and colloquia and are encouraged to participate in skill development, such as courses
offered by Oxford’s Centre for Teaching and Learning, plus People and Organisational
Development. IT and Careers Services provide training and support.
   ECR successes include:
    Matthew Donoghue (DL until move to Astra Fellowship, UC Dublin 2020) won a
     British Academy tender for a ‘Cohesive Societies policy review’ and a JFF grant for
     a workshop on ‘Whither Social Rights in Post-Brexit Europe?’
    Elizabeth Nye (DL until 2020) won a Knowledge Exchange Seed Fund and
     Humanities Innovation Challenge Award for her app development project
     POWERup, ‘Promoting the Occupational Well-being of Educators.’



Development of an inclusive culture that includes a dynamic work environment through a
range of events including colloquia to discuss on-going research. DSPI integrates
administrative staff and student representatives in all decision-making, including the Ethics and
Executive committees. In addition to the University’s generous maternity/paternity leave
arrangements, DSPI provides unpaid leave, flexible working arrangements for all staff requiring
time for care responsibilities, and support through the Returning Carers Fund. DSPI introduced
a workload management system providing flexibility to academics to vary their time between
teaching, research and administrative work. We accommodate and prioritise research output
(e.g. using buy-outs of teaching to increase research capacity).



                                                                                              Page 8
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

2.2 Support for postgraduate research students (PGR)
Departmental teaching is devoted to post-graduate students, at masters and doctoral (DPhil)
level, with two programmes in Comparative Social Policy (CSP) and Evidence-Based Social
Intervention and Policy Evaluation (EBSIPE). Students take either a one-year MSc or a two-
year MPhil, and courses are structured to enable students to move onto one of two DPhil
programmes. Since 2014, a second track on policy evaluation was added to social intervention.
This led to an increase in graduate applications, and in 2019 the DPhil title was altered to ‘Social
Intervention and Policy Evaluation’ to reflect the expanded focus. DSPI is home to over 50
DPhil research students (70% female) and about 65 Master’s students (most studying 1-year
MSc, and fewer undertaking the 2-year MPhil). The graduate intake is highly international
(approx. 60% overseas, the remainder home/EU students) from over 20 countries per year.
          DSPI is home to 65 master’s and over 50 doctoral students
          UOA-20 awarded 85 DPhils during REF2021
          Annual average of 12 DPhil degrees completed

57% of DPhil students received a scholarship over the last five years: DSPI sponsors 3-4
DPhil grants per year (Barnett, Barnett House-Nuffield, Centenary, Oxford-Wolfson Marriott
Graduate) and 2-4 doctoral grants via university competition (Clarendon, ESRC, ESRC/DTP
scholarships). External graduate student scholarships include Rhodes (worldwide), Marshall
(US), Trudeau (Canada), Employment, Equity and Growth, ERC Emerging Market Welfare
States, Wolfson Marriott, Hoffman Leadership Programme, Standard Bank Derek Cooper
Africa Scholarship, Chevening, DTP Overseas Institutional Visit Scheme, Oxford-Trygfonden
(Denmark), Scatcherd European and Save European.
Progress of DPhil students is mentored through frequent supervision meetings, active
participation in research groups, and several formal milestones up to thesis submission and
viva. The milestones include a Transfer of Status examination at the end of the first three terms
and a Confirmation of Status after nine terms. These involve the submission of substantial
documentation that will form part of the final thesis, and is reviewed by two faculty members
not involved with supervision.
Research students are encouraged to attend all department taught courses, especially
quantitative and qualitative methods, statistics and systematic reviews. The Methods Hub
provides specialist methodological and statistical support, and we plan to recruit a
qualitative/mixed methods specialist with our next appointment. Students receive an eight-
week seminar series of guest lectures. Fortnightly Departmental Colloquium introduce students
to in-house research and was designed explicitly to foster collaboration, giving researchers at
every stage an opportunity to discuss and share their work. Doctoral and second year masters’
students also attend and present at bi-weekly research group meetings.
Research students benefit from project-related experience working with our research leaders,
and many doctoral candidates are offered teaching opportunities. For example, MPhil and DPhil
students have worked for Gardner and Lachman’s UNICEF Thailand project ‘Parenting for
Lifelong Health’. Many students have gained valuable fieldwork experience in South Africa with
Cluver’s team in violence prevention intervention projects. For example, DPhil (2018) Janina
Steinert (now Professor in Global Health at Technical University of Munich) worked as Project
Manager for Cluver’s Sinovuyo Teen Study - a randomised controlled trial with UNICEF and
WHO, winning the Teresa Smith Prize for best DSPI thesis. Toska who completed her DPhil in
2016/17 is now a key collaborator of Cluver’s UKRI GCRF Hub at University of Cape Town.
Our graduate students have co-authored articles with DSPI academics, who guide them in
publishing in peer-reviewed journals. Student impact includes DPhil candidate Lukas Lehner
who co-designed the world's first universal jobs guarantee experiment, run by the Austrian
Public Employment Service 2020, in Marienthal.




                                                                                                 Page 9
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

Many PGRs have secured subsequent academic or research positions as postdocs, lecturers
or assistant professors in British universities such as King’s College London, LSE, London
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Bath, Essex, Exeter, Leeds, and Glasgow; in other
European universities (Antwerp, Bremen, UC Cork, Milan, Tübingen), and internationally (Hong
Kong). For example, Selcuk Beduk (DPhil 2018) is Senior Researcher at University of Essex.
Our graduates appointed within DSPI include: Lachman, Nye and Shenderovich. Notable
career success is GJ Melendez-Torres (DPhil 2015) became Professor (2019) at University of
Exeter College of Medicine and Health. We invite alumni to give careers talks to our graduates
- most prominently former DSPI DPhil, US Representative Derek Kilmer in 2018.
2.3 Equality and diversity (E&D)
DSPI has a long-standing commitment to equality and diversity in research and praxis. Our
former DSPI Head, Rebecca Surender has been PVC and University Advocate for Equality and
Diversity since 2015, providing continuing guidance to department policy. DSPI submitted (Nov
2020) an application for a bronze level Athena SWAN award to the Advance HE’s Equality
Challenge Unit in 2020/21. DSPI has a strong female cohort across student body and staff (see
Table 1). The self-assessment process has led to reflection on why this is the case, what we
consider to be a good gender balance, and how we will achieve and sustain this; we will now
aim for 60% female representation across staff, students and speakers. While the Athena
SWAN charter covers only gender, our submission and analysis of our practice also applied an
intersectionality perspective, which means that we consider wider issues in relation to equality
and diversity as being integral to DSPI’s identity and success.
DSPI is committed to equality, diversity and inclusion and is establishing an Equality, Diversity
and Inclusion Group to follow the Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team. Its key objective is
to continue to create a positive culture of inclusion and support (‘one DSPI’) through activities
and policies that support E&D e.g. mandatory training and activities’ budget allocation. We take
actions to improve the number of female applicants to departmental academic and research
vacancies; we assess all teaching material from a critical gender and race perspective;
scrutinise and re-engineer departmental processes; and challenge decision-makers to ensure
equality of opportunity. We aim to address Black Lives Matter issues contributing to a University
level Oxford and Colonialism webpage, and have identified a work programme to decolonise
the curriculum.
Table 1. DSPI Staff and Student Numbers (Athena SWAN Survey July 2019)
 DSPI Staff Group                 Total    FTE      % all   Females      FTE        %
 Academic (SP, TP, AP, DL)          16     14.7     31%         7         5.7      44%
 Research Only                      15     13.6     29%         6         6.0      40%
 Professional and Support           22     18.6     40%        18        15.2      82%
 Total DSPI staff                   52     46.9    100%        31        26.9      60%
 MSc/MPhil CSP                      31              55%        22         22       71%
 MSc EBSIPE                         25              45%        17         17       68%
 PGT students                       56             100%        39         39       70%
 DPhil SP                           30              65%        20         20       67%
 DPhil SI & PE                      16              35%        11         11       69%
 PGR students                       46             100%        31         31       67%
CSP/SP: (Comparative) Social Policy; EBSIPE/SI&PE: (Evidence-based) Social Intervention &
Policy Evaluation
2.4 REF output selection process
REF publications have been selected through internal rating by a senior academic panel
(Barlow; Bukodi; Daly; Gardner), alongside Open Access compliance verification, with advice
from the Oxford Symplectic Elements team and support from a departmental research
facilitator. Following Divisional practice, DSPI’s HoD (Ebbinghaus) was the unit’s REF Lead
and another group member (Barlow Research Director) was the unit’s REF Co-ordinator. The



                                                                                             Page 10
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

Group ran a number of information sessions open to all staff to discuss the REF process, and
has communicated regularly with all researchers throughout REF preparation.
The selection of outputs was a rigorous process to ensure parity of treatment across all eligible
researchers. Starting in Autumn 2018, with calls for additional nominated outputs in 2019 and
2020, all Category A staff members were asked to nominate up to 5 outputs they felt were their
most REF-suitable work. We trained four senior professors in the School in REF output grading;
each nominated output was then reviewed by two readers from this group according to the REF
criteria for output excellence. From the pool of assessed outputs, based on the review grades,
those finally returned were selected to meet the minimum criteria of one per Cat A staff and
output excellence. This process was handled confidentially by the REF Lead, REF Co-ordinator
and Administrative lead.
Due to the small cohort size we cannot provide detail with regard to protected characteristics
such as ethnicity and disability, but just under 40% are under 40 years of age and just over
50% are between 41 and 64 years, with just over 10% at 65 years+. Table 2. below shows the
distribution of outputs across Category A and B staff. Table 3 describes staff submitted in the
UOA.
Table 2. Overall breakdown of output submission UOA-20
 Cat A            0         1          2            3        4           5   Totals    Average
 Overall       0.0%     55.2%       6.9%        20.7%     6.9%       10.3%      62          2.1
 - ECRs        0.0%     33.3%      33.3%        33.3%     0.0%        0.0%        6         2.0
 Cat B            0         1          2            3        4           5             Average
 overall       0.0%    100.0%       0.0%         0.0%     0.0%        0.0%        4         1.0


 Table 3. Analysis by headcount       Headcount         % of Cat A
 Total Cat A submitted                     29            100.0%
 Headcount ECRs                             3             10.3%
 Headcount fixed term contracts            10             34.5%
 Headcount senior grades                   20             69.0%
 Headcount Professors                      10             34.5%
 Total Cat B submitted                      4               --




                                                                                             Page 11
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
3.1 Research income
DSPI’s strategy has been successful in broadening and expanding its societally relevant and
critical research into social policy and social intervention. UOA-20’s research income
increased by 64% from the annual average of £1.5million during REF2014 period to
£2.45million for REF2021. This growth has facilitated a broader range of career development
opportunities, research activities, more outputs and wider societal impact. Average annual
research income across all sources relative to UOA-20 26.35 REF-Cat. A FTE researchers is
£93,000 per head. Table 4. describes the distribution of income across sources during the
REF2021 period.


   Table 4. Annual research income per submitted staff by source

                       Totals       Share        Average by year

        EU          £2,329,078      13.6%            £332,725

       UKRI         £3,596,826      20.9%            £513,832

     UK gov          £974,501        5.7%            £139,214

     Industry       £1,703,589       9.9%            £243,370

     Charity        £6,307,004      36.7%            £901,001

      Other         £2,267,485      13.2%            £323,926

    All sources     £17,178,483     100.0%          £2,454,069




UOA-20 overall portfolio (2013/14-2019/20) achieved £17,178,484 in total research income
of which UOA-20 researchers received competitive research funding from the European Union
(13%), UKRI (21%) from Charities such as Wellcome Trust and Nuffield Foundation (37%), from
industry (10%), from UK government (6%) and other sources (13%). Compared to REF2014,
UOA-20 substantially increased its EU funding from very low to nearly £4million. The UKRI
GCRF hub application has added significant Overseas Development Assistance funding to
DSPI’s research portfolio. Chart 3. shows relative amounts comparison per source.
Since REF2014 DSPI’s research income flow has increased significantly due to a 50%
success rate in our grant applications. DSPI received 70% of the UOA-20 research income
during REF 2021 period, thus £11.9million (2013-20) or on average £1.7million per year. The
three largest projects contribute one third (£4.2million) to DSPI’s research income, with the
remainder being secured by medium and smaller sized projects. As mentioned, research
activities by DSPI’s two research professors (Cluver, Nolan), who are bought out of teaching,
have been successful in building and sustaining two larger research teams in CEBI and OISP
respectively. Major awards were announced in 2019/20: Cluver’s ‘Developing Accelerators’
UKRI GCRF Hub £18.53million and Nolan’s award of an €9.8million ERC Synergy Grant working
with Piketty of Paris School of Economics and Saez of University of California Berkeley.
One major research cluster led by Cluver was further boosted by the UKRI GCRF Hub award
in 2018/19. Several grants are progressing preventative non-medical intervention in HIV AIDS
and support young people: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 'Development Accelerators'
to reach nine SDGs for Africa's adolescents (£133,095, Higher Education Funding Council of
England); ‘Accelerating Achievement for Africa’s Adolescents’ UKRI GCRF Hub (£8.2million for
DSPI); GCRF Hub Inception Phase (£100,000, GCRF QR Funds); GCRF Hub Inception Phase


                                                                                        Page 12
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

(£180,000, UKRI); School Feeding Plus: Working with the World Food Program to improve social
protection programming in East and Central Africa (£24,780, GCRF QR Funds), Stopping Abuse
through Free Evidence (€10,000, H2020 Impact Award Prize 2019).
The second consolidated research cluster led by Nolan (DSPI Research Professor),
comprises a large portfolio of grants for his team Employment, Equity and Growth (EEG) at
INET, including Hanauer Foundation, Citigroup, Nuffield Foundation, Arrowgrass, and ERC
Synergy Grant (€2.2million for DSPI). At INET, Roser has acquired considerable independent
funding for Our World in Data from the Gates Foundation (£1million) and other private donors.
Chart 3. Shift in UOA-20 research funding since REF 2014 by source

  a) REF2014                                     B) REF2021 (UOA-20)
                     1%EU 1%
                                                        Other       EU
                                                        13%        13%
            Other 16%      UKRI
                           24%
                                                                         UKRI
          Industry                                                       21%
                                                    Charity
            20%
                                                     37%
                          UK Gov                                      UK gov
               Charity     24%                                           6%
                15%                                             Industry
                                                                  10%

Annual average: £1.5million                               £2.45million
DSPI’s diverse portfolio of research includes Joyce Foundation (Humphreys), UNICEF
(Cluver, Gardner, Lachman), Wellcome Trust (Reeves), Norface (Bukodi), WHO (Gardner,
Barlow others), and LEGO (Lachman). Academic excellence is also demonstrated by two British
Academy (BA) grants: Paskov holds a BA Postdoctoral Fellowship, while Bukodi secured a BA
Mid-career Fellowship for her project ‘Educational inequalities in Britain revisited’ (DSPI
provided leave from teaching and administration) in 2018/19. Since 2016, Barlow has held
research funding with NIHR, Big Lottery Fund, The Community Fund and NSPCC.
Fast growth in research capacity poses challenges in recruitment, administration, and
infrastructure, and the Department’s administrative team has been crucial in setting up and
integrating new larger projects, including the UKRI GCRF Hub.
International competitive European funding includes seven awards - a Starting Grant by
Reeves, the ERC Synergy Grant by Nolan, and three awards held in this REF period by Cluver.
Ivana Dobrotić joined DSPI through an EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship under Daly’s
supervision; Gardner and Lachman collaborate for Oxford in a Horizon 2020 project.
UKRI grants include Cluver’s two MRC/DFID/NIHR; Bennett collaborates with Millar (Bath) for
an ESRC project ‘Couples balancing work and care’ and both became Specialist Advisors to
The House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee inquiry into the economics of Universal Credit.
Franziska Meinck (now AP at Edinburgh) obtained an ESRC Future Research Leaders
Fellowship to develop her own work on global child abuse prevention. She was elected to the
council of International Society for Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect and maintains close
collaborations with DSPI. Helen Kowalewska secured an ESRC New Investigator, joining
Nolan’s team in 2019. At the Blavatnik School, Eleanor Carter won a UKRI Future Leadership
Fellowship of £1.2million.
DSPI’s strategic plans for the future are focused on developing a further research centre that
builds on our strength in family-related social intervention and policy evaluation research. We
seek to maintain DSPI’s international research activities through EU funding and alternative
international sources and collaborations. Led by Barlow, DSPI has recently been successful in


                                                                                          Page 13
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

a multidisciplinary cross-university Leverhulme Trust award “Moving Beyond Inequality.” The
Leverhulme Biopsychosocial Doctoral Scholarships, which will formalise collaborations for a
multidisciplinary biopsychosocial centre. Future areas that will be explored by the new
departmental leadership from January 2021 (Barlow HoD; Bukodi Deputy) include increasing
the number of self-funded research contracts, and seeking donations and revenues for further
departmental appointments. We aim to invest in the long-term careers of some existing DSPI
ECRs by increasing the delivery of short (non-accredited) online courses.
3.2 Research infrastructure
To enable planned growth, the department will need to move. The University plans in the long-
term, to move DSPI out of its old town-house style building and nearer other social science
departments.
Our dedicated department IT service provides bespoke support for researchers. We provide
our students with dedicated shared workspace in the building. During the pandemic our IT team
has smoothly enabled flexible working-from-home for all staff and students.
Our Communications Manager disseminates success in teaching and research creating
project websites. With the Public Affairs team she advises on communications plans, ensuring
timely press releases, DSPI website news posts, Twitter and other social media support for
projects. We ensure fair coverage across research areas, staff and students.
We endeavour to reduce the environmental climate impact of our work by limiting international
travel for field trips and research dissemination. During the pandemic we moved to online
working delivering blended learning and meetings. DSPI won a Green Impact Bronze Award
2019 for climate care in the building and awareness raising campaign. We contribute
scientifically, studying connections between climate change and social inequality (Goedemé).




                                                                                        Page 14
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
4.1 Support for research collaborations
DSPI has a collaborative ethos and international orientation, leading innovative multi-disciplinary
research. Since REF2014, research collaborations have progressed significantly, as we work to
deliver solutions to real-world problems in some of the poorest communities across the globe,
as part of our evidence-based research and policy evaluation. Specifically, DSPI researchers
seek to tackle several of the UN’s 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) such as ‘no
poverty’, ‘zero hunger’, ‘reduced inequalities’, ‘gender equality and equal opportunities’, ‘quality
education’, ‘decent work and economic growth’, ‘good health and well-being’, and ‘sustainable
cities and communities.’
DSPI’s UKRI GCRF Accelerating Achievement for Africa’s Adolescents Hub (Cluver)
collaborates with African institutions on promoting seven SDGs. It involves DSPI researchers
(Cluver, Gardner, Lachman; Meinck, now Edinburgh) and provides multiple opportunities for
many postdocs, project managers and graduate students to participate in fieldwork in and
research on Africa. The UKRI GCRF Hub includes 40 academics from UK and US partners and
12 African countries (see impact case study for achievements). The project was co-created with
African policymakers, international agencies and adolescents to meet their needs, guided by a
strategic advisory meeting at the United Nations. The project includes researchers (Dugbazah,
Ibrahim) embedded for five years within the African Union Development Agency (AUDA-
NEPAD) and the UN Development Program (UNDP). The Hub partners with initiatives such as
UNDP Accelerator Labs, WHO/Global Partnership to End Violence Against Children (INSPIRE),
and SIDA-UNICEF-UNAIDS-UNFPA. The team works with NGOs and governments to support
training and service packages for practitioners. For the past decade, Cluver’s team has worked
with adolescent advisory groups and consultations to co-design research and programmes.
These are now expanding regionally, and actively including vulnerable adolescents: those living
with disabilities, mental health difficulties and HIV/AIDS. The hub explores innovative
technologies for wider adolescent participation, such as UNICEF’s Internet of Good Things.
Nolan’s Employment, Equity and Growth (EEG) programme addresses the UN SDGs – ‘no
poverty’ and ‘reduced inequalities’ as a university collaboration between DSPI and Oxford Martin
School’s INET since 2014. Supported by the Resolution Foundation and Citigroup for the
Inequality and Prosperity programme. It investigates the role of rising inequality in income and
wealth not only in undermining economic growth and living standards, but also its far-reaching
effects on social solidarity, trust, and political behaviour in affluent countries. The research has
produced significant insights, two OUP volumes edited by Nolan: Generating Prosperity for
Working Families in Affluent Countries (2018) and Inequality and Inclusive Growth in Rich
Countries (2018). A widely distributed 2017 Citigroup Report: Inequality and Prosperity in the
Industrialized World, for the policy community was promoted at special UK conferences to play
a critical role in public debate. Nolan’s team led the first investigation into patterns of wealth
transmission and inequality across generations.
Further international collaborations include Gardner’s research on the development and
testing of parenting interventions for reducing child behaviour problems, and violence against
children, in high and low-middle income countries, with projects in the UK, US, Eastern Europe,
South Africa, Tanzania, Thailand and the Philippines (see impact case study for evidence.)
Barlow collaborates with researchers in Canada and Australia, and she was part of the PReVAiL
(Preventing Violence Across the Lifespan) network of international researchers. Barlow and
Gardner work extensively with WHO and UNICEF developing the evidence-base for
advancement of child protection policies.




                                                                                               Page 15
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

Maps showing ‘reach’ of a) DSPI’s funded research impact




b) Doctoral research projects




Selwyn is board member of Adoption and Special Guardianship Leadership, acting as an
advisor to international governments and organisations. Her work on adoptions from care is
referenced in government reform papers, and led to legislative changes and the introduction by
government of the Adoption Support Fund (£250million fund to provide therapeutic support for
adopted children). She is the academic lead for Bright Spots: a world leading programme
intended to place the voice of the child at the heart of local authority policy and practice. To date
the voices of 12,000 looked after children and care leavers have been captured through
subjective wellbeing surveys co-produced with children. Changes in practice have been noted
in OFSTED inspection reports, Directors of Children’s Services and by children themselves.
Selwyn is acting as an advisor to ONS on their review of wellbeing measures.




                                                                                                Page 16
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

Humphreys collaborates with University of Pennsylvania on ‘Stand Your Ground’ laws of US
gun crime (Joyce Foundation, US), leading to an internal Public Engagement with Research
award examining local opinion regarding gun collection services in Pennsylvania. Reeves is co-
PI collaborating with University of Melbourne, Australia in addition to his ERC project that
involves collaboration with LSE and a Nuffield Foundation project with York.
Thanks to Oxford’s collaboration with Berlin universities, Daly was awarded a project entitled
‘Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Family Formation Policies’. Daly collaborates extensively with
the EU on the analysis of EU social policy, including recently undertaking analysis of the Child
Guarantee for the European Parliament. She contributed to UN Women’s flagship report
‘Progress of the World’s Women 2015-2016’.
Ebbinghaus is Mercator Fellow and is co-PI on two DFG-funded projects at the University of
Mannheim. His project on crisis corporatism has contributing teams in eight European countries.
4.2 Contributions to wider economy and society
In addition to our impact case studies (Cluver; Gardner; Przybylski), and ongoing COVID-19
agile policy research response and intervention, our wider societal impact includes:
Jane Barlow has led research demonstrating the effectiveness of intervening during early
childhood to reduce later social inequalities. Findings have been included in UK policy
documents to guide service commissioning (e.g. NICE guidance; PHE policy; EIF documents)
and internationally, resulting in changed delivery of early years services. The Parents under
Pressure (PuP) programme, shown to be effective in reducing potential for child abuse in high
risk parents, is being used by NSPCC in Blackpool (Better Start initiative) and Glasgow. It is
used by Action for Children (Wales), PrePare and Circle (Scotland) and across Irish
organisations, including statutory child protection (TUSLA) and residential treatment facilities for
women with addictions (Bessborough; Coolmine). Training and implementation support in the
PuP programme have been provided by Griffith University since 2010 and approximately 280
agencies have been contracted to train practitioners in Australia, Britain and Ireland. Recently,
with colleagues in the Rees Centre (Ward) and University of Chicago (Wulczyn), Barlow
established with colleagues, the international network on infants, toddlers and child protection.
Fran Bennett (OBE) is an expert on UK social policy with wide-ranging impact. Studying
Universal Credit, she partnered with University of Bath on ESRC project ‘Couples balancing
work, care and finances in the changing context of Universal Credit’. Bennett works actively
alongside key stakeholders such as UK Women’s Budget Group, Child Poverty Action Group,
Resolution Foundation and ATD Fourth World. She is a frequent expert guest on BBC Radio 4
(Money Box Live, Woman’s Hour, Briefing Room, Analysis). In 2020, she was one of two
specialist advisors to the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee’s inquiry on Universal
Credit. Bennett's meeting with the UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human
Rights in November 2018 led to significant influence on the analysis of Universal Credit in the
final report. Bennett was a member of the Department for Work and Pensions' Universal Credit
‘support and exceptions’ working group. She met with Cabinet Office’s Open Innovation Unit on
women in low-paid employment. Bennett gave evidence to the Work and Pensions Select
Committee on women and the welfare safety net (13 Feb 2019) and was invited to write one of
two commentaries on the gender inequalities analysis for the Deaton Review of Inequalities.
Sarah Harper collaborates with CHASE Africa (a UK Charity) on Women’s Health and the
Environment, and is a Patron. She serves on Royal Society Working Group on Biodiversity
(2020), Nuffield Council on Bio-Ethics Review into Healthy Ageing and is Fellow of the Royal
Anthropological Institute.
Aaron Reeves has contributed widely to UK policy debate. He submitted papers to the Work
and Pensions Select Committee (83577, 83551, 83483), which were cited in its report on Benefit
Sanctions (31/10/2018) leading to government response (6/2/2019). They explicitly refer to
recommendations of the committee based on Reeves’ evidence. Reeves’ work was highlighted
in the House of Lords ‘Current Affairs Digest’. He gave evidence to the UN Special Rapporteur
on Extreme Poverty. Three papers were cited in the Equality and Human Rights Commission’s


                                                                                               Page 17
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

report on The Impact of Welfare Reform and welfare-to-work programmes. Collaborative work
with Loopstra (2018) was cited by the UN Special Rapporteur’s final report. These papers were
cited in a briefing paper from House of Commons Library (30/11/2016): Benefit Claimants
Sanctions (Required Assessment) Bill 2016-17. Work with Loopstra (2015) was cited in
parliamentary debate packs on Benefit Sanctions (2015) and in Oxfam’s policy priorities for the
Scottish government. Reeves’ work has attracted significant media coverage, including BBC 2
and Radio 4 documentaries.
Our experts have been consulted to analyze the grassroots impact of the pandemic. Reeves
projected the future use of Foodbanks for Oxford City Council. Barlow assessed the secondary
impact of the pandemic on the ability of frontline community-based practitioners to protect
vulnerable children, and its impact on families participating/having participated in the Growing
Minds project. This aims to enhance school readiness in disadvantaged families with pre-school
children in Oxfordshire. Bennett was guest speaker on Oxfordshire Community Foundation’s
webinar about the impact of lockdown on children, families and education. Daly works with
Oxford County Council and those associated with the provision of social care services, as part
of the Care Initiative which she founded in 2013 and leads at Green Templeton College.

  Coronavirus  Pandemic
  ESRC published         Rapid 8/2020
                   Chrisinger’s Response
                                      Evidence briefing: ‘Encouraging behaviour change to
  reduce Covid-19 transmission: A summary of two rapid evidence reviews’
  UOA-20 has been very active since the Coronavirus pandemic hit the world in early 2020. Max
  Roser’s (INET) ‘Our World in Data’ (https://ourworldindata.org/) has presented up-to-date
  world-wide data on COVID-19 cases, deaths and testing measures, informing the public via
  major media (BBC, CNN, NYTimes, etc.), the research community, and policy makers of the
  spread of the pandemic. It was accessed 77 million times in year one.
  DSPI’s Parenting for Lifelong Health (PLH) team rapidly had online resources made and
  translated into 100 languages to provide dedicated COVID-19 support to families around the
  world, working in partnership with WHO and UNICEF (Cluver, Gardner, Lachman). Their work
  has reached 136.5 million families in 204 countries in 10 months. Their PLH Digital team
  includes a student consultancy component supported by the university careers service. The
  PLH work is funded by a number of rapid-response COVID-19 internal (£203,707 Med/Sci
  donations) and external grants (GCRF Newton Fund £468,500 and Oak Foundation £71,428).
  The Oxford COVID-19 Supertracker (https://supertracker.spi.ox.ac.uk/), launched in July
  2020 is an online platform established to help policy-makers globally to navigate the policy
  responses to tackling the pandemic, and its aftermath around the world. Developed by
  Daly, Ebbinghaus, Lehner, Naczyk, and Vlandas, the Supertracker was described as a
  “precious tool” by Ugo Gentilini, Global Lead for Social Assistance at The World Bank.
  Economists at OECD found it “an enormous service to the research and policy community.”


4.3 Indicators of wider influence
UOA-20 have received acknowledgment by a range of public bodies and academic peers. Mary
Daly was elected as a British Academy Fellow 2017 and is a member of the ESRC’s Strategic
Advisory Network. Besides the Horizon Impact Award for ‘Parenting for Lifelong Health’ teen
project, Cluver received multiple awards, including an ESRC prize for her video featuring HIV
prevention in South Africa, ESRC International Impact Prize, O2RB Excellence in Impact
Awards, Philip Leverhulme Prize 2015, International AIDS Society Young Investigator Award
2014, UNICEF Women Leaders in the HIV response for Children 2018, Falling Walls Foundation
Award 2020, and was featured in International Women’s Day 2019 as an 'incredible female
researcher'.
Fran Bennett received an OBE in 2017 for services to Social Science.
Julie Selwyn received a CBE in 2017 for services to looked after children and adoption.



                                                                                           Page 18
UOA-20 Environment Statement (REF5b)

Sarah Harper received a CBE for services to Demography (2018). She served on the Prime
Minister’s Council for Science and Technology (CST) 2014-2017. She chaired the UK Foresight
Review on Ageing (2014-16), has been a Director of the UK Research Integrity Office from 2017
and on the Board of Health Data Research UK from 2018. Advisor on Industrial Strategy
Challenge Fund Healthy Ageing Challenge.
Other awards since 2014, include European Academy of Sociology, best article 2018 (Reeves),
Nan Tobler Award 2019 (Gardner), Humanities Innovation Challenge 2019 (Nye), Association
of Child and Adolescent Mental Health poster award (Nye); Cambridge University
Press Award for Excellence in Social Policy Scholarship (Bennett), Oxford University Student
Union Student-Led Teaching Award (Daly), the Kempe Award for Outstanding Young
Professional in Child Abuse and Neglect (Meinck), the Vice-Chancellor’s innovation awards
(Gardner and Stoicescu).
DSPI faculty peer review funding applications nationally and internationally including: UKRI,
ESRC, ORA, German Research Foundation, NIH, NIMH, WHO European Region Expert Group
on Child Maltreatment Prevention, Nuffield Foundation, Wellcome Trust and International AIDS
Society (Paediatric HIV Education and Research).
DSPI staff have been/are on a number of editorial or advisory boards of journals (since
2014): AIDSCare; Campbell Collaboration (Social Welfare); Child & Adolescent Mental Health
Journal (Editor in Chief); Cochrane Collaboration (Developmental, Psychosocial & Learning
Disorders), Critical Discourse Studies; Ethnos; European Journal of Public Health; European
Journal of Social Security; European Societies and Social Politics; Evidence & Policy; Global
Social Policy; Infant Mental Health Journal; International Journal of Consumer Studies; Journal
for International & Comparative Social Policy; Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, Journal of
Anthropology; Journal of European Social Policy; Journal of Language & Politics; Journal of
Poverty & Social Justice; Journal of the International AIDS Society; Kölner Zeitschrift für
Soziologie & Sozialpsychologie; Local Government Studies; Prevention Science; Psychology,
Public Policy & Law; Research on Social Work Practice; Social Policy & Administration; Social
Politics.
Going forward we aim to continue to make a positive contribution with our research around the
world, and believe that our new leadership (Barlow Head of Department; Bukodi as Deputy in
2021), will ensure we are well positioned to achieve these goals.




                                                                                          Page 19
