Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: C19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 Politics and International Studies at the OU (POLIS) has a long record of producing
 internationally excellent research. Our submission to REF 2021 is a key step in a new,
 refocussed research strategy prompted by generational change in the unit and backed by
 renewed investment. We are submitting 9 FTE academics to Panel C19 (surnames
 emboldened). Our research covers two main areas: ‘international relations beyond the west’
 and ‘democratic politics: performance and participation’ (see 1.1.1). These build on and extend
 in new directions long-standing research excellence on these topics. Our research is also
 distinctive in benefitting from the interdisciplinary academic culture of the social sciences at the
 University (see 1.1.2). It will continue to draw insight from the wider interdisciplinary environment
 of the School of Social Sciences and Global Studies (SSGS) and Faculty of Arts and Social
 Sciences (FASS) in order to enhance our contribution to politics and international relations.

 REF2021
 POLIS is excited to enter as a unit of assessment in the REF for the first time since 2002. In
 RAE 2008 and REF2014 POLIS research, income, postgraduates and impact case-studies
 made significant contributions to other UOAs – in sociology, geography and development
 studies. Subsequently, POLIS successfully made the case within the University to develop a
 refocussed approach to our research. This submission forms a key step within a longer-term
 research strategy intended to develop the vitality and sustainability of the unit over the next 5-10
 years.

 POLIS’s research strategy sought to exploit the potential of the post-Stern research environment
 and the OU’s ongoing commitment to internationally excellent research that ‘informs, inspires
 and influences’. As the OU’s 2018-23 Research and Enterprise Plan makes clear, research
 forms an integral part of our ability to push the boundaries of new knowledge, support the OU’s
 world-leading distance education and fulfil its social mission.

 Responding to this context and following the formation in 2016 of the new Faculty (FASS) and
 School (SSGS), POLIS secured a package of investment to fortify our research expertise and
 create a new postgraduate curriculum (MA in International Relations). With backing from the
 Faculty and University the unit appointed four early career researchers (ECRs) in 2019-20 and
 as a mark of ongoing growth, three more senior positions after the REF census date (senior
 lecturer and two chairs).

 In sum, REF2021 is an important first test of POLIS’s new research strategy.

 1.1.1 Research groups
 As a relatively small unit, POLIS’s research strategy groups research into two main areas of
 excellence: international relations beyond the west; and democratic politics: performance and
 participation. These groups drive forward and expand upon long-standing research foci within
 the discipline whilst encompassing a range of research areas and epistemological and
 methodological approaches. In outlining the main foci of POLIS research, the sections below
 note, where relevant, examples of research excellence developed by former colleagues on
 which these two groups build.

 Boundaries between these two groups are flexible, with some researchers and outputs
 contributing to both. The vitality of research is sustained by a productive cross fertilisation
 between more ‘traditional’ and ‘critical’ approaches as well as between disciplinary and
 interdisciplinary methodologies.

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1. International relations beyond the west
 Researchers in this group include Boni, Brown, Chatterje-Doody, Martin, Wastnidge (plus
 Gaskarth and Weiffen, appointed after the REF census date).

 A signature of our research in IR is its focus on non-western states and non-state actors and
 their capacity to impact on international affairs. The discipline of IR increasingly recognises the
 need to engage more fully with the non-western world in addressing contemporary challenges to
 the western-dominated international order. Debates around the utility of ‘traditional’ IR
 approaches, critiques of Eurocentric methodologies, postcolonial approaches and explorations
 of ‘worlding beyond the west’ have all helped expand the focus of the discipline. Four of seven
 recent POLIS appointees (Boni, Chatterje-Doody, Gaskarth, Weiffen) add to our capacity to
 respond to these developments, bringing expertise on a range of further non-western contexts to
 complement the existing work of Brown and Wastnidge.

 Research within this group incorporates an expansive range of both research objects and
 approaches. Its geographical range includes Russia, Iran, the Middle East, China, Pakistan,
 South Asia, Africa and Latin America. Its substantive focus covers ‘traditional’ concerns, such as
 foreign policy and regional co-operation, but also cultural diplomacy, social media and
 development cooperation. As well as state actors, our research encompasses media
 organisations, religious foundations, militaries, NGOs and sub-state regional economic actors.
 Methodologically, researchers in this group utilise established methods of qualitative,
 quantitative and comparative political analysis, but also mobilise innovative and critical ideas and
 methods that focus on narrative, agency, culture and soft power.

 Wastnidge’s analyses of Iran’s cultural diplomacy and his co-leadership of the Carnegie-funded
 SEPAD project (‘Sectarianism, Proxies and De-sectarianisation’) has involved policy briefings in
 the UK parliament on de-sectarianisation in the Middle East, and new analyses of soft power
 and de-securitisation in the region. Chatterje-Doody is a co-convenor of the BISA Russia and
 Eurasia Security Working Group and uses cutting-edge methodologies in discourse analysis,
 narrative studies and the role of emotion to understand Russia’s use of social media and
 historical narrative to further its international influence. Boni’s in-depth scrutiny of China-
 Pakistan cooperation includes his participation in a Carnegie-led and Ford Foundation-funded
 project on China. Brown’s continuing work on questions of state agency and developmental
 unevenness includes work on the diversity of African states’ actions within the field of
 development cooperation. Wastnidge, Chatterje-Doody and Boni’s work explores Eurasian
 challenges and the possible emergence of counter-hegemonic security communities.

 Though primarily belonging to the second research group, Martin’s work on counter-terrorism
 and Czajka’s emerging research on non-western approaches to climate resilience, and on
 democratic struggles in Turkey, both cross over creatively into this group. POLIS further
 strengthened this group with the appointment of Weiffen (comparative politics, regionalism and
 Latin America) and Gaskarth (security, international ethics and new powers).

 Earlier research reflecting the focus of this group includes: Conway’s ESRC-funded research on
 British emigrés in South Africa; and Grugel and Fontana’s H2020-funded work on participation
 and development. Many of the issues raised in Isin’s ERCFP7-funded work on citizenship after
 orientalism (discussed below) addressed non-western conceptions of citizenship, whilst Bloom’s
 Leverhulme-funded work on ‘noncitizenism’ and the negotiation of the UN Global Compact on
 Migration (GCM), also contributes to POLIS outputs and impact in this group. The earlier
 research of POLIS Emeritus Professor Thompson (in IPE) also forms part of this group.

 2. Democratic politics: performance and participation
 POLIS scholars Andrews, Czajka, Heffernan, Taylor, Martin, and Usherwood and Weiffen
 (appointed after REF census date) all conduct research into different aspects of democratic
 politics.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within the broad field of democratic politics, POLIS research has a particular focus on the
 performative aspects of politics and the ways in which they shape multiple modes, limits and
 experiences of political participation. Work on citizenship, identity, security politics, migration,
 leadership and loyalty all explore different aspects of performance and participation in
 democratic politics. Our researchers’ combination of traditional and critical approaches
 contributes to the vitality and variety of POLIS research.

 A key feature of POLIS’s research on democratic politics concerns how performative politics
 shapes participation in the fields of citizenship and security. Czajka’s work on performative
 democracy (see the monograph Democracy and Justice) is complemented by her innovative
 work on performative methodologies, including collaborations with the Tate Modern and a range
 of international arts organisations to explore issues such as migration and climate change.

 Czajka’s work notably extends a tradition of POLIS research interpreting citizenship as
 performative political repertoires enacted and disrupted by both citizens and non-citizens (see
 Isin’s Being Digital Citizens). Performativity was a central focus of Isin’s ‘Oecumene: Citizenship
 after Orientalism’ project (concluded in 2015) and a key strand of the OU’s Centre for
 Citizenship, Identities and Governance (CCIG). Bloom’s development of the novel concept of
 ‘noncitizenism’ and de Jong’s work on migrant and gender politics also analysed performativity
 in citizenship, migration and refugee studies (see Noncitizenism and Complicit Sisters,
 respectively).

 Martin’s research on the securitisation of British politics (Counter-Radicalisation and the
 Securing of British Identity) also builds on and extends previous POLIS research, continuing
 Huysmans’ earlier contributions, grounded in theories of performativity (Security Unbound).
 Martin’s analysis of the UK’s Prevent strategy shows how it delineates the boundaries of political
 participation, identity and belonging. It extends the examination of the ways in which security
 politics can create and limit boundaries for democratic politics. Taylor’s work on affective politics
 and anger as a political motivator (including articles and forthcoming monograph on Spinoza)
 also highlights performative aspects of politics, whilst his work on political freedom, resistance
 and post-Brexit political identities extends this work in new directions. Chatterje-Doody’s
 research in the non-western IR group similarly stretches this tradition, exploring the relationship
 between historical memory and Russia’s international identity-building via traditional and new
 media. This links with earlier research by Blakeley on Spanish politics and historical memory.

 Current POLIS research also expands the unit’s strong track record of exploring the different
 modes and lived experiences of political participation in democracies. This includes work on
 loyalties, identity and leadership. Andrews explores political loyalty via political biographical
 studies, including of James Klugmann and John Cairncross (with studies of Cyril Lakin and
 Thomas Wright forthcoming). Heffernan’s well-known work on British prime ministerial power is
 being extended with research into the constitution and recruitment of the British political class
 and public attitudes towards political elites. This builds on his 20-year co-editorship of the ‘state
 of the art’ Palgrave series, Developments in British Politics, as well as frequent contributions to
 political analysis on the BBC and other media. Czajka and Weiffen’s work on democratic crisis,
 Weiffen’s research on democracy promotion, and from May 2021, Usherwood’s research on
 Euroscepticism, further extend the work of this group.

 In summary, POLIS’s refocussed research strategy and the addition of new staff has sought
 deliberately to build on and extend these two, longer standing research strengths within the unit.

 1.1.2 Interdisciplinarity, structure and strategy (current REF period)

 The vitality of POLIS research has been sustained for a long time through mutually-beneficial
 relationships across our Faculty that have enabled fertile interdisciplinary intellectual
 engagements. POLIS researchers have used those engagements to make unique contributions
 to the wider discipline. We continue with this approach but within a politics and IR-focussed
 research strategy and REF submission.

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 POLIS researchers helped to create and lead some of the key structures supporting research in
 the Faculty and University while, at the same time, benefitting from funding, external
 collaborations and administrative support they have provided. POLIS played a leading role in the
 formation of the internationally renowned CCIG research centre providing two of its directors and
 research stream leads. As the University established its Strategic Research Areas (SRAs) and
 CCIG’s work came to an end, Isin led the formation of the Citizenship and Governance SRA in
 2015 and de Jong led the workstream on Justice, Borders and Rights. We are extending this
 work today with Czajka and Chatterje-Doody leading the working group developing a new,
 interdisciplinary Centre for Global Challenges and Social Justice, launching in 2021.

 POLIS draws on intellectual exchanges with colleagues in other disciplines to make unique
 contributions to research in politics and IR. These allow us to enrich established politics and IR
 analyses of leadership, participation, cooperation and power with innovative and critical
 approaches that scrutinise identity, security, culture, new media, affect and rising powers.
 Contributions include work on the intersection between development and IR (Boni and
 Chatterje-Doody’s work on China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and Brown’s work on
 development policy and Africa); sociology (Chatterje-Doody’s work on social media and
 Czajka’s leadership of the Tate Exchange programme); culture and politics (Czajka’s arts
 engagements and Wastnidge’s work on culture, religion and diplomacy); political history
 (Andrews and Taylor); and language-based area studies (Chatterje-Doody and Wastnidge).

 In previous REF periods, POLIS researchers made significant contributions to other units of
 assessment. In 2014, Isin, Conway, Czajka, Huysmans and Prokhovnik contributed to
 Sociology; Brown’s work on African agency and sovereignty contributed to Development
 Studies, and Corry’s global environmental governance research to Geography. We continue to
 engage actively with this interdisciplinary environment in the School and Faculty to enhance the
 development of our research in politics and IR, our submission to REF2021 and the further
 growth and development of our two research groups.

 In addition to School and Faculty research engagements, POLIS holds monthly research
 meetings, presentations and peer-review of disciplinary and pedagogical research-in-progress,
 and discussions on impact strategy and funding. We have also supported research writing
 through School-wide ‘writing circles’, and a POLIS residential writing retreat in November 2019
 which saw 7 academics work on a total of 9 outputs of which 5 are now published or submitted
 for publication. The event was described by attendees as ‘really supportive’ and ‘the most
 comfortable I have ever felt in a research environment’. Use of dedicated research time and
 flexibility over teaching duties has also enabled POLIS researchers to deepen their
 engagements with their subjects, resulting in nine outputs submitted for REF2021 being
 monographs.

 POLIS makes full use of the University’s research infrastructure, including the practical support
 for Open Access principles and requirements embedded within the University’s Open Research
 Online facility (ORO). As one of the UK’s largest research repositories (43,000 OU publications
 and over 600,000 full-text downloads a year from 200 countries), ORO makes our research
 globally accessible within and beyond the disciplines of politics and IR. POLIS researchers
 benefit from the OU’s new research grant handling tool, the Award Management System.
 Researchers in the unit also utilise the advice, regulation and risk assessment provided on
 research ethics via the University’s Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC) which itself
 draws on the OU’s internationally recognised expertise in the field of research ethics (see the
 Institutional Environment Statement (IES)).


 1.1.3 Impact
 POLIS research focuses on national and global challenges that are at the forefront of the
 University’s aim to develop engaged research and fulfil its social justice mission. Our work in
 international relations and democratic politics has enabled us to engage with policy-makers and

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 think tanks at the national and international level (UK Parliament, Brookings Institution, South
 Asia Democratic Forum); international and national organisations working on migration and
 climate change (European Network on Statelessness, Tate Modern, Counterpoint Arts); and
 journalists and those working in the media (BBC and International Forum for Journalism).

 POLIS benefits from substantial support from the wider Faculty and University to facilitate
 impactful research. This includes impact training events with FastTrack Impact; post-doctoral
 research assistance and consultancies to assist in developing impact (see Section 3); funding to
 enhance impact; and participation in Faculty and School impact workshops and reviews.

 POLIS has utilised a range of appropriate pathways to boost research impact for key
 beneficiaries. These include workshops and engagement events; media appearances; and direct
 partnerships with third-sector organisations (such as Tate Modern). In line with University
 strategy, our research continues to inform, underpin and shape our award-winning curriculum as
 well as BBC collaborations and open access resources on OpenLearn (Section 4).

 Two key areas of impact – on public policy, law and services; and on creativity, culture and
 society – are showcased in the two POLIS impact case studies. Bloom’s research, expert
 testimony and advocacy in the negotiations for the UN GCM in partnership with international
 NGOs and networks was supported by the provision of study leave, assistance in funding bids,
 and provision of flexible teaching cover. Bloom achieved observer status for the OU in the UN
 negotiations enabling her own work assisting NGO groups to engage effectively in the process
 and creating access for other OU researchers.

 Engagement with arts organisations stemmed from Isin and Czajka initiating a long-running
 relationship between the OU and the Tate Modern, focussed on the Tate Exchange programme.
 Within this, POLIS co-led the ‘Who Are We’ project (2016-2019) of participatory arts events
 exploring migration and identity, drawing on Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF, £21,460)
 plus support from the Faculty Strategic Research Investment Fund (SRIF) and the wider OU
 buy-in to the relationship with Tate (c.£8,000 annually). Czajka extended the engagement with
 arts organisations through the AHRC-funded ‘Picturing Climate’ project. Here too, POLIS has led
 the establishment of key external relationships that have enhanced the impact of POLIS
 research and that of other OU researchers.


 1.2 Future research and impact strategy

 During the current REF period, POLIS took the initiative to become a unit of assessment in its
 own right as a key step in a longer-term strategy to strengthen the vitality and sustainability of
 our research. We will continue to build on our established history in disciplinary and
 interdisciplinary research whilst seeking to create further capacity, quality outputs, funding
 success and impact in the two research groups outlined above.

 Our Research strategy seeks to:

 1. Sustain the vitality of POLIS’s research groups

 POLIS will consolidate its research around its two research groups and further embed the work
 of new and existing staff in unit and School research environments. We will do this by pursuing
 further individual and collaborative work within both research groups; continuing engagements
 with colleagues in other disciplinary areas in the School and Faculty; and building on existing,
 and developing new, external collaborations.

 Key indicators of success will be the growth of existing and new collaborations across disciplines
 and HEIs involving POLIS researchers, as well as bringing to fruition our contribution to
 establishing the new Centre for Global Challenges and Social Justice (CGCSJ) in SSGS,


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 designed to further enhance the excellence and impact of disciplinary and interdisciplinary
 research in the School.

 2. Develop high-quality research outputs
 We will support early career and more established researchers to further improve the quality of
 their research. We will build on successful writing retreats and writing circles, and continue to
 draw on expertise from senior researchers in the School through the research-mentoring
 system. We will add to these initiatives with a new research outputs peer-reading group and by
 encouraging participation in School-level training and professional development.

 As an indication of early progress, our 2020 internal audit of research showed POLIS
 researchers had 8 monographs in progress (2 of which are in press); 6 journal articles in press
 or review; 2 edited collections and 9 book chapters in press or under review. Highlights for early
 2021 include major new monographs Spinoza (Taylor) and Russia Today and Conspiracy
 Theory (Chatterje-Doody).

 3. Enhance sustainability of research through external bidding success
 POLIS is increasing its bidding activity and building greater capacity for funding success
 (Section 3). This includes unit-specific training and support for bid-writing, induction sessions for
 new members of staff and building bidding experience among POLIS staff through participation
 in large collaborative bids with other HEIs (8 bids in draft or submitted). We will add to regular
 School and unit-level training by ensuring that annual career development and workload
 planning includes allocations for developing bids. An early indicator of success is Czajka’s 2021
 AHRC (GCRF) grant of £180k for ‘Decolonising Climate Resilience’.

 4. Continue an inclusive approach to research and scholarship
 POLIS recognises and values the variety of research and scholarship in the unit whether
 supported by external income or internal resources. The unit includes six staff tutors, all of whom
 fall below the OU REF Code of Practice research workload threshold (categories of OU staff are
 explained in the IES). Some have career pathways focussed on pedagogically-oriented
 scholarship, others have plans for REF-able research. It is particularly important in the recently
 enlarged unit to enhance opportunities for all, ensure inclusivity and cohesion and strengthen
 teaching-research synergies.

 POLIS will continue to ensure that sources of support and study leave, funding, training and
 other support, including research mentorship, are available for all categories of staff, regardless
 of REF status, in order that the unit continues to pursue both REF-oriented research and
 pedagogic scholarship.

 Our impact strategy seeks to:

 1. Develop POLIS capacity to achieve impact
 Through increased investment in staffing of research support (at University level, research
 impact senior manager, impact evidence manager), the University and Faculty have enhanced
 the expertise available to POLIS to develop our capacity to achieve research impact. Drawing on
 this support – as well as external training and workshops, where appropriate – gives us
 increased capacity to embed impact goals, pathways to impact and systematic evidence-
 gathering into our future research.

 2. Identify and target impact areas
 Research in POLIS has the potential to achieve benefit or change in a number of areas. We
 have utilised research audits to begin to identify how to maximise impact across both research
 groups. We will build on recent POLIS successes in utilising internal funding from RES and the
 Faculty (see Section 3) to support our work in public engagement, impact generation and
 evidence gathering.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 POLIS will also prioritise support for areas of research with greatest potential for significance
 and reach including opportunities in participatory arts research (Czajka); media and politics
 (Chatterje-Doody); democratic engagement in UK politics (Taylor, Heffernan); counter-
 radicalisation policy (Martin); and de-sectarianisation (Wastnidge).

 3. Expand POLIS public engagement events
 To raise further the profile of our research and build relationships with key practitioner groups,
 POLIS is developing a series of ‘Open Politics’ public engagement events highlighting POLIS
 research and teaching. The first, delayed by the pandemic from spring to autumn 2020 was
 ‘Orwell, 1984 and New Authoritarianism’ (within the ‘democratic politics’ group), attracting over
 400 online participants. In the ‘IR beyond the west’ group, a planned policy-oriented event was
 repurposed due to the pandemic into an online seminar series exploring non-western
 perspectives on change in international order. Alongside our partnership in the UK Parliament
 week, we are re-energising our knowledge exchange activities around our core research groups.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Recent investment in staffing to develop our research and to expand our postgraduate
 curriculum has sought to build on existing traditions of research excellence and to expand them
 in new directions. As a commitment to the medium and long-term goals of the unit, and in line
 with the University’s commitment to reduce casualisation, our approach to new staffing has
 focussed on full-time and permanent roles.

 As a result of this investment, the unit now comprises of 4 early career lecturers; 5 SLs; a reader
 and, by early-2021, two professors, along with 6 staff tutors. Nine of those academics were in
 post by July 31 2020 and met the OU Code of Practice threshold for REF. We have made
 appointments to extend our research strengths in our ‘IR beyond the west’ (Chatterje-Doody,
 Boni, Martin, Gaskarth and Weiffen) and ‘Democratic politics: performance and participation’
 (Taylor, Martin, Usherwood and Weiffen) groups. Appointments ensure that we have good
 coverage both of area studies and qualitative, quantitative, comparative and performative
 approaches and to support curriculum developments (Masters in IR).

 Our staffing strategy has necessarily had to respond to a period of generational change in the
 unit. Building on their research and teaching achievements in POLIS, several staff (Blakeley,
 Grugel, Huysmans, Isin) moved on to senior positions at other leading HE institutions. We took
 the decision to prioritise recruitment of ECRs in order to refresh, renew and extend existing
 research areas. However, we have also extended our senior research experience and
 intellectual leadership with appointments of an SL (Weiffen, autumn 2020) and two chairs
 (Gaskarth and Usherwood, early 2021). This will strengthen our two research groups, enable the
 effective mentorship and development of the unit’s ECRs, increase the unit’s expertise in bidding
 and add substantially to the vitality and sustainability of POLIS research.

 In a notable feature of our staffing strategy, POLIS transitioned fixed-term staff to permanent
 status, recruited only to full-time, permanent, research-teaching positions and moved academic-
 related staff to more academic roles. Our research strategy is therefore built on solid
 foundations. We have been able to do this by actively benefitting from a wider move in the
 University and Faculty towards less casualised employment. POLIS successfully applied for two
 fixed-term researchers to become permanent. All staff on fixed-term positions who wished to
 continue with POLIS were given that opportunity (POLIS had no part-time staff in this period).
 POLIS also facilitated the transition of staff in academic-related positions (Senior Faculty
 Managers) to academic positions (staff tutor roles) and we were successful in enabling one
 researcher to move from a staff tutor role to a central academic position.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In sum, POLIS has responded to a period of change with a staffing strategy that has invested in
 and developed our existing staff whilst also building in an exciting and strategic way for the
 future.

 2.2 Staff development
 POLIS aims to nurture an inclusive approach to research excellence, developing staff capacity in
 outputs, income generation, PhD supervision and impact activities. POLIS staff are entitled and
 encouraged to take 30% of their annual workload as research leave, a combination of study
 leave and in-unit research and scholarship days. Additional leave is also available for impact and
 knowledge-exchange activities with a view to ensuring the broader social and policy impact of
 POLIS research. This also ensures that cutting-edge research continues to underpin the unit’s
 curriculum. Shared teaching duties enable cover for teaching and administrative responsibilities,
 with additional cover provided through funding consultancies. Leave can be taken flexibly during
 the year, enabling all colleagues, including those with flexible working patterns, to benefit
 equally.

 POLIS staff use annual staff appraisal and research planning with the Head of unit (equivalent to
 head of department) and unit research lead to identify support needed in order to attain research
 objectives. All POLIS staff also have access to a research mentor, whom they meet on at least a
 semi-annual basis to discuss the progress of their research and ensure it is developing in a
 manner appropriate to their career stage and aspirations.

 As noted in Section 1, regular POLIS research meetings provide disciplinary peer support,
 feedback and collaboration on research-in-progress and POLIS staff are actively encouraged to
 take up School, Faculty and University-level research development opportunities. POLIS also
 encourages staff to take up research leadership positions within the School and Faculty
 (including in this REF period, Director of Research Degrees for FASS; Director of Citizenship
 and Governance SRA; Director of CCIG; and SSGS Director of Research).

 We see this work beyond the unit not only as good citizenship within the School, Faculty and
 University, but also contributing to the intellectual development and overall maturity and reach of
 POLIS itself.

 2.3 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS)
 The postgraduate research community in POLIS is an integral component of the research
 environment. In this census period, research students have been funded through grant income
 (‘Oecumene’ and ‘Enacting European Citizenship’ projects) and major funding bodies (ESRC).
 Czajka and Isin had key roles in the successful establishment of the ESRC-funded Grand Union
 Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) with Oxford and Brunel, and Czajka and Bloom ran its
 interdisciplinary Citizenship Studies pathway. This enhanced the reputation of POLIS research
 and provided a route for expanding postgraduate recruitment. As Director of Research Degrees,
 Czajka standardised supervisory policies in FASS, and helped to develop a postgraduate
 programme of core and advanced training for students.

 In the census period, POLIS had a 100% PhD completion rate, with 11 students finishing and
 moving on to positions in academia (7 graduates), education (1 graduate) and third sector
 organizations (3 graduates). With regards to the latter, one former student (McConalogue) is
 now the Editorial Director and Director of Communications at the think tank Civitas, while
 another (Arfvidsson) is Curator at the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg, Sweden. The
 seven who have gained academic positions have gone on to posts at Sheffield, Duisburg-Essen,
 Rio de Janiero, Roehampton, London School of Tropical Medicine, Birmingham City and
 Bremen. Scheel also won the BISA Michael Nicholson prize for best thesis in 2014. The current
 POLIS postgraduate community comprises 5 students, who are a mix of ESRC-funded and self-
 funded, full and part-time, and students based in other units co-supervised by POLIS colleagues
 (including one funded by the Rachel Webb Political Psychology Studentship).



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 POLIS equips PGRS with research and teaching experience that enables them both to succeed
 in their PhDs and their post-PhD careers (demonstrated above). PGRS’ recruitment and
 progress are overseen by the Postgraduate Convenor (Boni). Reflecting the excellent
 satisfaction ratings achieved by the University (see IES) former POLIS research students rated
 supervision as ‘excellent’ and noted that the unit was ‘extremely encouraging, positive and
 constructive’. One former student remarked: ‘when I supervise students as a lecturer, I try to do
 for them what my supervisor did for me’.

 Over and above University-wide provision, regular supervisory meetings and participation in
 POLIS research meetings, POLIS provides additional professional development opportunities
 through participation in the PhD Student Teaching Scheme. This enables students to gain
 experience working with POLIS module teams. Students said this scheme was ‘an incredibly
 valuable experience’, allowing them to gain online and face-to-face teaching experience.

 As noted in the IES, the University Graduate School provides a bespoke virtual learning
 environment giving access to a range of academic, training and professional development
 resources and an annual personal research allowance (£1000 plus further funding
 opportunities), additional support during the Covid-19 pandemic and support for students with
 disabilities (the Disabled Students' Allowance). PhD Students also benefit from the OU’s
 Neurodiversity Network and the “Togetherall” 24/7 free, confidential, online mental health
 support.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 Over this REF period, POLIS has used unit-specific initiatives over and above wider University-
 level policies to foster greater equality and diversity within the unit.

 Unit-level efforts to diversify our staff have included the School’s first pilot project to reflect
 critically on our hiring practices with regard to gender, ethnicity and disability. POLIS collected
 and analysed data on recent appointments and produced a report with a number of
 recommendations, discussed at unit, School and Faculty level. Currently, seven of the 16
 members of POLIS (including staff tutors) are women and two identify as BAME.

 POLIS’s staff development strategy has also focussed on the mentorship and promotion of
 women academics into upper-level administrative positions. Women from POLIS have held
 senior research positions (listed above), plus FASS Deputy Associate Dean for Teaching and
 Students, SSGS Director of Teaching; and the School’s Athena Swan representative. Our
 staffing strategy has also focussed on diversifying areas of research excellence beyond the
 west, with a number of recent appointments specialising in non-western politics and IR.

 We took the initiative to include on our internal REF panel two ECRs appointed in autumn 2019,
 to use the work of the panel as a means of REF-related mentoring, and to enhance and broaden
 REF skills and knowledge within POLIS. We have ensured the ethnic diversity and gender parity
 of the REF panel and have monitored grading (and inclusion of outputs in the submission) with
 regard to gender, disability and BAME authorship, within the University’s REF Code of Practice.
 Consideration was thus given to inclusivity and representation in the very construction of the
 submission.

 In enacting University-level policies, all POLIS staff have undergone unconscious bias and
 interview training and all POLIS REF panel members have completed Research England
 equality and diversity training. We have made full use of the University’s extensive flexible
 working arrangements including how, and when, study and research leave are taken. This has
 enabled colleagues with caring and other responsibilities, disabilities, or flexible working
 patterns, to benefit equally from research leave provisions.

 While availability, training and use of remote working tools (Teams, Skype, Adobe Connect) are
 a routine part of our working environment, they have enabled us to sustain the vitality of our
 research environment during the Covid-19 pandemic and avoid some of the accessibility issues

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that have arisen elsewhere. POLIS researchers have thereby continued to work effectively,
 collaborate and engage intellectually at unit, School and Faculty level.

 Flexibility and accessibility are also enhanced by online research and teaching support, including
 an extensive online library (see Section 3), online research and teaching workshops, training
 sessions, mentorship, and certification programmes such as Applaud (the University’s
 accredited route to Advance HE fellowships). The University’s Access to Work Scheme and
 Employee Support Programme for staff with disabilities and mental health and wellbeing needs,
 and the University’s flexibility on staff returning to work from periods of absence, add to the
 support we offer.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In order to realise POLIS’s strategic aim of developing our research quality and its impact
 through our two research groups, we are seeking to build our bidding activity and success and
 will continue to draw on institutional support to do so.

 3.1 Research Income.
 In response to staffing changes and the conclusion of some larger research projects, we have
 sought to reinvigorate our external funding success as part of our new research strategy. Key
 steps taken include providing support in the form of study leave, administrative support and
 internal funding to enable staff to develop bids (see 3.2); ensuring new appointments all have
 demonstrated achievement, or potential, to develop funding bids; and building experience of
 large funding bids through involvement in collaborative projects in the OU and in other HEIs. As
 a result, POLIS is seeing modest but welcome successes in funding with real evidence of much
 increased potential for success in the near future.

 As PIs, POLIS researchers secured over £570,000 in external research funding in this REF
 period. This includes recent successes such as Bloom’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship
 ‘Noncitizenship and the Global Compact for Migration’ (2018-19, grant value £40,176, income to
 OU £28,060) and Czajka’s AHRC ‘Picturing Climate’ project (2019-20, £51,541, over £29,000 of
 which was spent in ODA-recipient partner countries). It also includes Isin’s ‘Oecumene’ project
 (ERC FP7, 2010-2015, grant value £1.8M, income to OU in this REF period £384,371); Grugel’s
 ‘Contentious Rights’ project (Horizon 2020, 2016-20, grant value €269 857,80; income to OU
 £52,790) and Conway’s British in South Africa research (ESRC, 2013-14, £12,116), as well as
 smaller grants from a range of funders, including Santander, Royal Geographical Society, BISA
 and the British Council.

 POLIS researchers have also been active as Co-Is in collaborative projects with other HEIs (see
 below). Funding from professional bodies has been secured to support research dissemination
 including Brown’s BISA-supported African development workshop grant (£3,000); Wastnidge’s
 BISA-funded Global Shia Diplomacy pilot (£2,500) and Chatterje-Doody’s BISA Russia and
 Eurasian security working group grant (£3,500).

 To improve this record further POLIS is building experience of bidding and leading larger
 research projects through (i) developing funding bids of our own and (ii) participation in
 collaborative bids with other HEIs. In terms of our own bids, POLIS had 8 bids between 2017-20
 of which 4 were successful (the most recent being Czajka’s £180k AHRC-GCRF bid) and a
 further 3 bids pended due to COVID-19. There are a total of 11 bids already, or due to be,
 submitted by the end of 2021 including Andrews’ £40,000 Leverhulme project on Thomas
 Wright. Involvement in recent collaborative projects include Wastnidge as Co-I on the SEPAD
 project (2018-2020, led by Lancaster); Boni’s involvement in the Leverhulme ‘Why
 Decentralisation?’ project led by Kent and Chatterje-Doody’s involvement with the AHRC-
 funded ‘Reframing Russia’ project (£719,635, 2017-2020, Manchester and the OU).
 Collaborative bids underway include Transnational Media in the Middle East (Chatterje-Doody
 and Wastnidge as Co-Is on a £810,000 AHRC bid) and Boni’s bid as Co-I on CPEC (China-

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pakistan Economic Corridor, c.£600,000, ESRC).


 3.2 Infrastructure, facilities and research support

 External funding enables us to achieve greater significance and reach in our research and
 POLIS will continue to use internal administrative support and funding to increase our grant
 income.

 POLIS academics receive one-to-one support in bidding, grant maintenance and budget
 management from the Faculty Research Office (FRO). The expanding team of 14 in the FRO
 (including two senior managers) provide tailored support in research-bid development,
 knowledge exchange and impact activity. The Office also supports HEIF funding and
 management of external funding, strategic internal funding, and coordination of the REF
 submission. The Awards Management System enables tracking on all research and enterprise
 income and bid quality is reinforced by robust academic peer review.

 Additional advice, support and training is available from the University Research, Enterprise and
 Scholarship unit (RES – see the IES) and researchers can also draw on extensive resources
 provided by the OU Library which is tailored for remote working. POLIS researchers have online
 access to a world-class collection of over 275,000 academic journals, 540 databases, 590,000
 e-books and a vast selection of online newspapers, audio and video resources.

 POLIS has used Faculty and University funding to help achieve its research aims in the following
 ways:

     • Developing funding bids
 The unit uses both internal and external funding to create pathways to larger external funding
 bids, including for ECRs. Examples include: Czajka using £2,300 of Faculty SRIF funding to
 support a successful bid to UKRI Climate Resilience fund; and Chatterje-Doody’s use of £3,800
 SRIF funding to develop a BA Knowledge Frontiers grant bid (pended due to Covid19).

    • Collaborating and building networks
 Andrews has utilised CCIG funding to hold research seminars in collaboration with Oxford and
 Wastnidge to support his participation in the 7th International Shia Studies course in Iran. Brown
 used International Development SRA funding to support an international workshop on African
 development in London, 2018. RES funding has been used to develop the POLIS seminar series
 on non-western perspectives on international order.

     • Enhancing research outputs
 POLIS has drawn from funding from RES (totalling £43k 2018-20) to develop research outputs
 including consultancies to conduct background research and a REF external advisor to review
 output quality. RES also funded our successful writing retreat in November 2019.

    • Building research-teaching synergies
 Further Faculty funding has been used for pedagogical scholarship on widening access to online
 teaching, (Smith, Brown, O’Cain and Hunter’s projects) and Czajka’s project on arts
 pedagogies.

     • Achieving knowledge exchange and impact
 Czajka utilised HEIF and SRIF funding to engage in knowledge exchange activities including a
 play and symposium at the Milton Keynes International Festival (£5,000, 2018) and the annual
 Tate Exchange programme (£21,460, 2016-19). Czajka used CCIG funding to develop the
 interactive game ‘Uneven Journeys’ on OpenLearn. POLIS used RES funding to run public
 engagement activities, develop impact evidence and fund the new series of ‘Open Politics’
 events. Bloom drew on institutional support to gain OU observer status for the UN GCM
 negotiations.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    • Enabling research collaborations in the pandemic
 POLIS members have been drawing on online infrastructure and expertise to disseminate their
 research in collaboration with other HEIs, particularly during the global coronavirus pandemic
 (see 4.2).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Addressing some of the most pressing political issues of our time, and drawing on its expertise
 in ‘democratic politics’ and ‘IR beyond the west’, POLIS researchers are actively building
 national and international collaborations, contributing to public understanding of politics through
 partnerships with the BBC and open access resources, and via wider contributions to the
 discipline.

 4.1 Research collaboration

 POLIS staff are involved in 8 collaborative projects with UK and international HEIs and other
 organisations. Examples include: Wastnidge’s development of the SEPAD international network
 of 40 academics; Boni’s collaboration with Nottingham and Lahore for British Council and ESRC
 grants on the BRI and CPEC; Wastnidge and Chatterje-Doody’s involvement in the
 ‘Transnational Media in the Middle East’ bid (partners in Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon); Czajka’s
 ‘Picturing the Climate’ work with NGOs and universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cuba and
 Jordan; and Heffernan’s visiting fellowship at Notre Dame. Other international networks include
 Boni’s involvement with the ‘Why Decentralization’ and ‘The politics of Chinese investments in
 Europe’ networks; Chatterje-Doody’s role in ‘Slavic Studies Goes Global’ and ‘WomenInRus’;
 and Martin’s involvement in the ‘Rethinking Security’ group.

 These relationships provided fertile ground for collaborative events with UK and international
 universities, including with Oxford (Andrews - ‘Divided Loyalties’, 2016); Birmingham and
 Oxford Brookes (Brown - African development workshop, 2018); Manchester (Chatterje-
 Doody, ‘Reframing Russia’); Burch International University (Czajka – ‘Picturing Climate’); UCL
 (Czajka on migration, citizenship, climate change); George Mason, USA and Lancaster
 (Wastnidge – SEPAD).

 POLIS researchers have used collaboration with colleagues from other universities to co-author
 and co-edit a range of research outputs, including 7 journal articles and book chapters (Boni;
 Chatterje-Doody; Heffernan; Wastnidge); 3 books (Chatterje-Doody; Heffernan); 1 edited
 volume (Wastnidge); and 1 special issue (Wastnidge). Collaboration has also fostered funding
 bids relating to both POLIS research groups including Isin’s ‘Oecumene’ project (£1.8M ERC,
 concluded 2015) and Wastnidge’s US$400,000 extension to SEPAD (2019-21). Future plans
 for international and interdisciplinary collaborations include Lebanese, Pakistani and Kazakh
 universities and other partners (Wastnidge and Boni), bringing together historians, political
 scientists and area studies experts.

 4.2 Contributions to the discipline

 POLIS staff actively engage across the usual range of scholarly activity in politics and
 international studies but have also made noteworthy contributions to the wider discipline during
 the COVID-19 pandemic.

 In relation to the latter, POLIS has facilitated online research events and made a unique impact
 on pedagogical approaches during the global pandemic. Boni, Brown, Chatterje-Doody,
 Martin, Smith and Wastnidge organised and contributed to online events with other HEIs and
 scholarly associations in the UK and overseas. Smith co-organised a BISA/PSA joint webinar
 series in summer 2020 with contributions from Smith, Brown and O’Cain (live and YouTube
 audience over 450).


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 POLIS impact in this area draws on its research and scholarship and reflects the wider
 recognition of research-based pedagogic excellence: Blakeley (POLIS 2006-19) won the
 European Award for Excellence in Teaching in Social Sciences and Humanities (2019) and
 Brown, Corry and Czajka won the BISA Prize for Excellence in Teaching International Studies
 (2016).

 POLIS staff serve on editorial boards of a range of politics, IR, area studies and pedagogic
 journals including Asia Maior (Boni); New Middle Eastern Studies (Wastnidge), Review of
 International Studies (Brown to 2015) and Higher Education Studies (Smith). Isin served as
 Editor-in-Chief of Citizenship Studies and Huysmans as editor of International Political
 Sociology. Boni and Czajka have served as Associate Editor respectively of Contemporary
 South Asia (2017-18) and Citizenship Studies (2016-21). Wastnidge is co-editor of the MUP
 book series, Identities and Geopolitics in the Middle East, and Heffernan for 20 years co-edited
 Palgrave’s Developments in British Politics.

 Current POLIS staff contribute to peer review processes across the discipline. They have
 reviewed for 37 different journals, including EJIR, RIS, World Development and British Journal of
 Politics and International Relations. POLIS staff including Heffernan, Wastnidge and Brown
 have reviewed book proposals for 10 publishers including Palgrave and MUP and POLIS staff
 have served as funding reviewers for AHRC, Qatar University and the Berkeley Centre.

 Brown and Wastnidge have acted as PhD external examiners in 8 universities including
 Oxford, Sheffield and Manchester; Chatterje-Doody served as external PhD reviewer for
 Manchester; Czajka served as external academic reviewer for Richmond University and Niccolò
 Cusano University. She is also on the Management Board (2016-present) and leads the
 Citizenship Studies pathway of the ESRC-funded Grand Union DTP.

 POLIS members are active contributors to the wider discipline, and are represented in 11
 national and international professional associations, including 8 UK-based (Society of Authors,
 Women's History Network, BASAS, BISA, PSA, DSA, British Institute of Persian Studies, British
 Society of Middle Eastern Studies (BRISMES), Chartered Management Institute), and 3
 international (European Association for South Asian Studies, EISA and ISA). Several POLIS
 members serve in leadership positions within these associations: Boni (Council Member of
 BASAS and Co-Convenor of the BASAS-DSA South Asia Study Group); Chatterje-Doody (co-
 convener of the BISA Russian and Eurasian Security working group); and Smith (Co-chair of
 PSA Teaching and Learning network).

 Several POLIS members organised and chaired large international conferences: Chatterje-
 Doody co-chaired the Russian and Eurasian Security section of BISA annual conferences 2018-
 20; Smith co-chaired the Teaching and Learning panels at PSA annual conference, and a
 collaborative teaching and learning conference hosted by PSA, BISA, ECPR and APSA; and
 Wastnidge co-chaired the SEPAD annual international conference and 3 international
 workshops. The research expertise of POLIS members is recognised internationally in
 Heffernan’s Visiting Research Fellow at Notre Dame and Wastnidge’s deputy Directorship of
 SEPAD. Andrews, Boni, Brown, Chatterje-Doody, Czajka and Wastnidge received 21
 invitations to deliver keynotes, lectures and seminar series presentations at UK and international
 universities and institutions including Brookings and Sciences Po as well as invited talks at
 events dedicated to policy-makers.


 4.3 Contributions to economy and society

 A unique feature of POLIS’s contribution to society has been its impact on public understanding
 of politics by building on the large-scale public engagement supported by the University (see
 IES). This international reach is achieved particularly through collaborations with the BBC and
 via the OU’s free-to-view OpenLearn platform.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Co-productions with the BBC consist of collaboration on both broadcast content and supporting
 open access educational materials. Drawing on their research, POLIS staff were academic
 consultants on three BBC 2 TV series: Inside the Commons (Heffernan, 2016); Meet the Lords
 (Heffernan, 2017) and Inside the Foreign Office (Brown and Wastnidge, 2018). This work
 continues with Boni and Chatterje-Doody supporting Trump on the World Stage (BBC 2, 2021).
 The total audience of the three BBC series was 19.71 million. POLIS produced OpenLearn
 material accompanying the series generating 28,307 unique visitors to associated OpenLearn
 resource pages. For those resource pages POLIS produced five videos, three articles and two
 audios with total unique visitor figures of 18,279.

 Drawing on research in migration and the Middle East, POLIS co-developed innovative,
 interactive educational games on OpenLearn. ‘Uneven Journeys’ (exploring the difference
 between a refugee, migrant and investor's experience in acquiring British citizenship) and
 ‘Saving Setrus’ (exploring humanitarian intervention) had a total of 10,310 unique visitors. POLIS
 produced two free OpenLearn courses (‘What is Politics?’ and ‘China and the US’) with total
 unique visitor figures of 5,582, and 6 other audio programmes with visitor figures of 7,350.
 POLIS staff produced 37 other written pieces for OpenLearn between 2014 and 2020.

 Video interviews with prominent IR theorists (by Brown, Czajka, Corry and Conway), available
 since 2014 on the OU YouTube channel, received over 400,000 views. Isin’s Oecumene project
 made 14 podcasts available via iTunesU. POLIS staff (Boni, Chatterje-Doody, Czajka, Smith)
 and postgraduate research student (Colom) produced blog posts and videos, including
 contributions to an SSGS blog showcasing research on COVID-19 (co-developed by Czajka).
 Production is underway for a short course on Media, Politics and Society, in collaboration with
 the British Film Institute (led by Smith).

 POLIS members are also highly sought-after as commentators by international, national and
 local media outlets. Over the reporting period, Andrews, Chatterje-Doody, Wastnidge and
 Heffernan all featured regularly as experts on outlets including Al Jazeera, BBC Radio 4, BBC
 Three Counties Radio, Channel 5, CNN, France 24 and Vice News.

 As noted (Section 1) POLIS has launched a new series of ‘Open Politics’ public events
 extending a strong record of research-based public engagement activities. For example, ‘Who
 Are We?’ and ‘Picturing Climate’ (Czajka) were the two of the most highly-attended programmes
 under the Tate Exchange initiative (audiences 5,000 and 2,500 respectively). POLIS has also
 sponsored UK Parliament week (Smith, 2020); contributed to the Milton Keynes International
 Festival (Czajka, 2018), collaborated with the Photographic Community of Displacement
 programme at Galleria Media Nox, Slovenia (2017) and contributed to seminars and innovative
 events at the Migration Museum, London.

 POLIS staff have also engaged policy makers and practitioners in a number of fora. This has
 included Chatterje-Doody’s collaboration on conspiracy theories and COVID-19 with the
 International Forum for Journalism; Wastnidge’s engagements with parliamentarians, civil
 servants and diplomats through SEPAD and the Foreign Policy Centre; and Boni’s
 presentations at the South Asia Democratic Forum and the Chief of the Defence Staff’s Strategy
 Forum, IISS. Chatterje-Doody presented research to the technology specialist adviser of the
 Select Committee on Digital, Culture, Media and Sport and the British Embassy in Moscow;
 Heffernan presented research to members of the Select Committee on Public Administration;
 Wastnidge presented research to members of the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs; and
 Smith wrote PSA responses to the TEF Green Paper (Department of Business Innovation and
 Skills, 2015-16) and to the Office for Students consultation on digital teaching and learning
 during the pandemic.


 5. Conclusion
 In summary, POLIS is building on and extending in new directions long-standing research
 excellence in IR beyond the west and democratic politics. Renewed investment and a revitalised

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research strategy have enriched and reinforced the sustainability of our research environment
 within which the unit will continue to develop innovative and impactful research in politics and
 international studies.




                                                                                            Page 15
