Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: C-14 Geography and Environmental Studies


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Our vision is to conduct world-leading research into the most pressing global challenges of our
time, making tangible real-world impact through timely and sustained engagement with external
partners. We are shaping intellectual agendas in human and physical geography, and making
significant differences to policy and practice. Our research income has increased by 43% since the
start of the assessment period (from £1.4m in 2013/14 to £2.0m in 2019/20); our average annual
income in this period has increased by >15% relative to that reported in REF2014, and our PhD
completions are up by >25% since 2014. We have expanded our research collaborations and are
leading two interdisciplinary centres. We have had great success in attracting independent
research fellows, hosting 16 such awards since 2014. We recognise that a stimulating and
inclusive research environment enables high-quality research and our research strategy seeks to
engender this across all career stages.

This Unit refers to researchers from the Department of Geography (in the Faculty of Social
Sciences) and others who contribute cognate expertise in comparative urbanism, international
development and environmental modelling from the Sheffield Urban Institute (SUI), the Sheffield
Institute for International Development (SIID; co-directed by Kleine), the Sheffield Methods Institute
(SMI), the School of Mathematics and Statistics, and the University’s Flagship Institute for
Sustainable Food (ISF; co-directed by Jackson). The Unit comprises 98 researchers, including 35
academic staff, 23 postdoctoral researchers and 40 PhD students, spread broadly across human
and physical geography, with the University Vice-President for Innovation (Petley) and Deputy
Vice-Chancellor (Valentine) both of whom remain highly active in research.

Our strategic aims and objectives, as reported in REF2014, were:

   •   to lead intellectual debates in geography and related fields, both curiosity-driven and in
       response to major social and environmental challenges;

   •   to develop new initiatives on cross-cutting themes across the nexus of energy,
       environment and food security;

   •   to develop innovative methods and apply them to enhance the external impact of our
       research.

We have met all of these aims and objectives, as detailed below.

Our research strategy includes making ‘space for curiosity’, combined with challenge-led research.
In particular, Valentine has set new intellectual agendas for geographies of encounter, Dubow
authored path-breaking theoretical work on the philosophy and aesthetics of space, while Watson
pioneered the development and application of practice theory. Clark led empirically-informed ice
sheet modelling research via the BRITICE-CHRONO NERC-consortium, and an ERC Advanced
grant (PalGlac), alongside Ely’s NERC fellowship and Rowan’s Himalayan glacier research, which
led to a Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship. We have also improved understanding of ice
flow in Antarctica (Ng) and melting in Greenland (Sole, Livingstone). Jackson provided intellectual
leadership to the RGS-IBG as Chair of Conference in 2016, focusing on Nexus Thinking.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our research excellence is manifested in >75% of our physical geographers publishing in
Nature journals (17 papers) or in Science Advances (2 papers) (>15% of our submitted
outputs). Furthermore, our well-regarded research environment has helped us secure competitive
independent research fellowships (with 16 such awards held in the assessment period plus five
Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships awarded in the 2020 competition). Our ability to attract
applicants of this calibre provides strong testimony regarding the vibrancy of our research culture.

We have led cross-cutting research initiatives on the nexus of energy, food and environment
through research on the ‘domestic nexus’ (led by Watson; with Defra, BEIS, WWF, English Nature
and FSA) and through Krzywoszynska’s critical analysis of the nexus concept and interdisciplinary
leadership on the social science of soils. Jackson published an agenda-setting framework for
integrated, interdisciplinary agri-food research; Little advanced policy-integrated research including
path-breaking work on the science-farmer interface; while Cleaver led new ways of thinking about
international development through bricolage, applied, with Whaley, to water management in Africa.
Kleine pioneered research on digital methods in international development (ICT4D), while Pickerill
advanced cross-cutting research on sustainability and ecological responsibility.

In terms of innovative methods: McGonigle delivered award-winning research for NASA,
developing next-generation space exploration technology; Whitworth advanced small-area
estimation methodologies as co-investigator on a £800k ESRC-National Centre for Research
Methods project; Buck pioneered statistical approaches to advance radiocarbon dating science;
Ely developed new coding tools for comparing palaeo-data with ice sheet models; Phillips
developed new ideas on experiential fieldwork, inspired by Georges Perec; and Bateman
published a handbook on luminescence dating.

Enhancing impact: We have a strong commitment to the development of high-quality impact. For
example, Whitworth’s research has had significant impacts on health-related employment support
policies with uptake by the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) and the Sheffield City
Region. Blake’s work has influenced national policy actors, addressing fundamental issues of
social exclusion and food poverty. McGonigle’s volcano sensing technology is in operation
worldwide. Buck’s work underpins the internationally adopted standard in radiocarbon dating,
which is a scientific basis for the 5 th IPCC report, which was pivotal to negotiation of the Paris
Climate Agreement. Bigg’s prize-winning modelling work informs International Ice Patrol iceberg
warnings, whilst Little’s research has underpinned Defra’s bovine tuberculosis programme and
post-Brexit agricultural transition plan. PhD student Lambie-Mumford won the 2014 ESRC
Outstanding Early Career Impact prize.

Our research groups and support structures are designed to promote a stimulating research
environment among colleagues at all career stages and to communicate our research externally.
They have enabled us to build capacity in key research areas such as glaciology, food security and
international development, encouraging younger colleagues to work alongside more experienced
staff, sharing ideas, building confidence and increasing the scale and scope of their research. A
review of our existing research clusters in 2018 affirmed their purpose of encouraging interactions
and providing informal support. These long-standing clusters were reconfigured as research
groups in response to new critical mass in certain areas and to enable further interdisciplinary
opportunities, with the strategic goal of encouraging exciting research discussions and internal
collaboration, providing research confidence via peer support and sharing best practice. These
groups have organised reading groups and writing retreats and are underpinned by strategic links
with University-wide research institutes, within which our staff play key leadership roles.

While three of the clusters were retained (ICERS: Ice and Climate Research at Sheffield;
Landscape Dynamics; and Culture, Space and Difference), two new groups were constituted,

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reflecting emerging themes: Social Change and Economic Transformations and Environmental
Challenges in Global Perspective. Research groups set an agenda each semester, have
scheduled meetings and report to the Research Committee.

Building on existing strengths, our research strategy aims:

   •   to conduct world-leading research into global challenges of social justice and environmental
       change;

   •   to lead intellectual agendas within and beyond the discipline, including innovative methods,
       cross-cutting research, and production of world-leading outputs;

   •   to be recognised as global change-makers, working in partnership with a wide range of
       stakeholders to drive meaningful impact;

   •   to attract, retain and develop the careers of excellent postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and
       early career researchers (ECRs) as well as colleagues across all grades, whilst pursuing
       equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI).

To deliver these aims, we are committed to:

   •   building on existing recognised research strengths in food security, glaciology and
       international development;

   •   providing a world-class research environment, using Faculty, University and external
       funding to recruit, retain and develop excellent staff;

   •   supporting the development of high-quality grant applications, targeting cross-Council
       investment for interdisciplinary research and independent research fellowships;

   •   facilitating production and dissemination of world-leading research outputs;

   •   enabling world-class impact across human and physical geography through shared
       commitment to knowledge exchange (KE) and external partnerships, expedited via effective
       internal support;

   •   further embedding principles of EDI, open research and research integrity across research
       policy and practice;

   •   strengthening support for research ambition and career development for PGRs and ECRs
       and across all career stages; and

   •   supporting staff to contribute to the discipline and wider academy through a culture of
       shared information and workload recognition.

We plan to further develop research support and increase impact through the following specific
mechanisms:

   •   Annual face-to-face research meetings to facilitate staff development with the Director
       of Research and Research Hub manager. These are primarily for staff on open-ended
       contracts and optional for PDRAs. They are independent of managerial functions, forward-
       looking and designed to encourage development of clear research plans, supporting our
       strategic priorities of securing external funding to facilitate research and production of
       world-leading outputs. Initiated in 2019, these meetings are already enabling more
       ambitious and effective research prioritisation.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Enhanced data capture and management. We have developed robust data systems to
       track changes over time and to make relevant comparisons. For each point in our research
       strategy, we have identified specific support mechanisms, actions, timeframes and staff
       responsibility, coordinated by the Director of Research. We have improved regular
       publication peer review and feedback procedures, supporting research development
       through annual staff appraisals including setting and monitoring SMART objectives.

   •   Improved communication and dissemination. We have devoted additional resources to
       communicating our research via social media, improving our website, internal
       communications and external marketing. A monthly newsletter provides an update on grant
       applications and awards, reporting significant research achievements.

   •   A new impact strategy (detailed below), formalising and further enhancing the wider KE
       cultures and infrastructures in the Unit, with a focus on producing impactful research.

Our impact strategy is for each research group to have a tangible impact footprint, borne from
sustained relationships with key stakeholders who are beneficiaries of our research. We seek to
form strategic partnerships with business, government and civil society, to co-design research in
order to maximise impact on policy, practice and public understanding. This is delivered via the
following mechanisms:

   •   Our external advisory board meets annually to oversee our impact activities, helping
       identify potential impact for further development. Its members include several Sheffield
       Geography alumni, in addition to the Head of the National Oceanography Centre, the Chief
       Executive of the Geographical Association, the Co-Chair of the UN Committee of Experts
       on Global Geospatial Information Management, the Chief Executive of the Lake District
       National Park Authority, the Chair of the University’s Alumni Board, the British Library’s
       Lead Curator for Politics and Public Life, and representatives from the Met Office, the
       British Geological Survey, the Environment Agency and the Department for Education.

   •   Personalised support via our departmental impact officer (Whitworth) who runs
       identification, training and development sessions for staff involved in impact activities.
       Support has also been provided by the Faculty’s Partnerships, Impact and KE Team who
       ran events to promote connections with external audiences, helping cement partnerships
       between Whitworth and the DWP, Blake with local authorities and national charities (British
       Red Cross, FareShare), Little’s work with Defra and Bigg’s consultancy for Premier Oil.
       Staff involved in impact receive workload allocation to enable them to develop and deliver
       this work. In addition, the Faculty has supported us through a dedicated impact officer who
       has provided bespoke, disciplinary-specific expertise and support, and an Enterprise
       Manager, who has helped develop the market and social enterprise potential of the
       research of Osei-Kwasi and McGonigle via the Aspect SUCCESS programme.

   •   External funding has facilitated the development of impact, and the tracing of specific
       changes arising from our research. We have a strong track record of winning HEIF/Impact
       Accelerator and collaborative R&D awards (£383k in the assessment period), via NERC,
       ESRC and EPSRC (Blake, Jackson, Krzywoszynska, Poveda, Whitworth, Martin Jones,
       Little). Furthermore, two five-year KE research fellows (Langford, Reynolds) were
       appointed via the N8 Agri-Food programme, supported by HEFCE Catalyst funding.




                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3 Interdisciplinary research

To support our strategic priority of delivering cross-cutting interdisciplinary research, we are
strongly committed to five University research institutes, two of which are directed by our staff.
These address important global challenges, using cutting-edge methods and working at a scale
that requires interdisciplinary collaboration.

   •   The Institute for Sustainable Food is one of the University’s four Flagship Institutes (see
       REF5a). Co-directed by Jackson, it delivers basic, translational, and transformative
       research to improve the sustainability and resilience of the world’s food supplies, via
       research spanning the arts, humanities, natural, social, environmental and health sciences.
       It has world-class research facilities including the Sir David Read controlled-plant-growth
       facility (£3.6m investment in 2016-7) and the Wolfson Centre for Disease Phenomics, with
       research pillars on ‘Plant production and protection’, ‘Translational and transformative
       research’ and ‘Food consumption, health and sustainability’. Established in 2019, the
       Institute appointed Professorial Fellow Bhavani and created a permanent post for former
       Leverhulme Research Fellow Krzywoszynska. The Institute won ESRC funding from the
       ‘Governance after Brexit programme’ (Little) and >£1m from the STFC Food Network+
       programme, led by Choudhary (Management School), with significant input from Jackson
       and Reynolds. Recent awards include a consortium grant from UKRI’s Strategic Priorities
       Fund on ‘Transforming UK food systems’ (>£6m, 2021-25). This consortium (Healthy soil,
       Healthy food, Healthy people) is led by Jackson with colleagues in Leeds, Bristol,
       Cambridge, and City universities plus >30 stakeholders from government, business, and
       civil society.

   •   The Energy Institute is another Flagship Institute, dedicated to finding safe, sustainable
       energy solutions. Directed from Mechanical Engineering, the Institute works across themes
       of ‘Circular Economy’, ‘Wind’, ‘Conventional power’, ‘Nuclear’, and ‘Electrical energy
       storage’, with members including physical (Rhodes, Swift) and human geographers
       (Watson, Kumar, Jackson). The Institute has won significant funding from EPSRC and
       other sources, including a £1.26m grant from the UKRI Centre for Research into Energy
       Demand Solutions.

   •   The Sheffield Institute for Sustainable Development (SIID), co-directed by Kleine, is a
       sector leader in the methods, ethics and challenges of research concerning the Global
       South. It seeks to build meaningful partnerships with policy, practice, civil society, business
       and University stakeholders. Our staff (Kleine, Hammett, Kanai, Poveda, Martin) are
       involved in all five of SIID’s research themes on: ‘Cities’; ‘Digital technologies’, ‘Data and
       innovation’; ‘Governance, states and advocacy’; ‘Health’; and ‘Natural resources and rural
       livelihoods’. SIID is funded via NERC, GCRF, British Academy and ESRC grants.

   •   The Urban Institute addresses some of the major social, economic, and environmental
       challenges facing the world’s cities. Sustained through British Academy, Royal Society and
       ESRC funding, it runs an Early Career Network for urban researchers involving 20 scholars
       from across the Faculty. Several geographers (Fields, Kanai, Pickerill) helped establish the
       Institute, and allied funding from the European Research Council has facilitated the
       research of other Unit staff (Huang and Westman).

   •   The Sheffield Methods Institute (SMI) employs innovative research techniques to address
       major problems in the social sciences, involving several geographers (including Bell, who is
       Director of Research, and Lucy Jackson), with funding principally through ESRC.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our interdisciplinarity involves collaboration with researchers from a wide variety disciplines e.g.
engineering, geology, agri-tech, architecture, sociology, anthropology, ethnology, literature and
philosophy, and is also expedited through University investment in the Interdisciplinary Centre for
the Social Sciences, the Humanities Research Institute and the Grantham Centre for Sustainable
Futures. The latter has attracted considerable external funding, including £1m from EPSRC to
study single-use plastics, involving Jackson and Watson.

Our commitment to open research is progressed via a number of specific mechanisms:

   •   To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose
       Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 867
       outputs deposited over this assessment period were downloaded >97,000 times. This is our
       preferred route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding;
       we also publish outputs in fully open access journals (e.g. Frontiers in Earth Sciences,
       ACME, Dialogues in Human Geography), or hybrid where required for funder compliance.
       We furthermore publish in platinum OA journals (e.g. Volcanica) where there is no charge
       to publish or view articles, and in outlets where pre-peer review manuscripts are published.
       In addition, Martin Jones co-edited the first open access book for Routledge/Taylor&Francis
       in the social sciences.

   •   Open peer review: we publish in, and review for, journals (e.g. Nature) where reviewer
       identities, and often the reviews themselves, are disclosed.

   •   Open data: we publish in journals where underlying datasets are disclosed (e.g. Nature).
       We contribute to open data repositories including the University’s ORDA, and host websites
       where underpinning datasets can be downloaded (e.g. Clark’s BRITICE glacial map data).

   •   We generate open software: e.g. enabling volcano observatories to use the monitoring
       technology detailed in McGonigle’s impact case study (Volcano Monitoring). This software
       has been distributed to partners spanning five continents. Furthermore, Buck directs the
       University-funded BCal project, which provides a free online Bayesian radiocarbon
       calibration facility.

   •   We generate open educational resources: including Time For Geography, the Royal
       Geographical Society and the Geographical Association, enabling the vision of the former
       to: ‘support millions of young people in their journey from school classrooms to higher
       education, and into careers shaping the future of our world’.

   •   To culturally embed and widen our open research activity, we conduct open research
       training for all staff and PGRs.

We ensure a culture of research integrity by:

   •   Mandatory training for all staff and PGRs via the compulsory Faculty ‘Research Ethics
       and Integrity’ module and mandatory Unit-specific sessions on research integrity and
       ethics, delivered via staff meetings. We also provide training on working with vulnerable
       groups, especially in the Global South, on recent GDPR legislation and the use of social
       media and drones in research.

   •   Robust processes: under the framework set by the University Research Ethics
       Committee, all research projects undergo ethical review, administered by our Ethics Lead
       (Poveda), following principles of informed consent, confidentiality and anonymity. We have
       also introduced a new policy on co-publication between ECRs and PGRs and their

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       supervisors, to ensure appropriate recognition of contribution. SIID colleagues have
       pioneered a set of principles concerning equitable distribution of GCRF funding in
       collaborative projects with partners in the Global South, which are being implemented
       University-wide.

   •   Informal support to share best practice in an open and collegial environment, via staff
       mentoring, internal peer review and discussion.

   •   Increasingly our commitment to social responsibility extends to recognising the
       environmental consequences of our research, as evidenced by a 2019 University Green
       Impact award for work (led by Watson) on minimising our air travel carbon footprint.




 2. People


Our staffing strategy is to recruit and develop excellent staff at all career stages, hiring in areas of
existing and anticipated strength, e.g. within ICERS (Ely, Livingstone, Rowan, Sole), and
professorial research fellows in interdisciplinary University priority areas (e.g. Kleine in digital
society/development and Evans and Shankar in food sustainability). The latter were enabled via
competitively won Faculty/University investment, such that we secured the greatest number of
these appointments in the Faculty over the assessment period. Our excellence here is also
manifested in recruitment of outstanding independent research fellows, supporting them from
proposal development through to open-ended positions. In particular, we have hired: Davies
(Leverhulme Fellowship), Ely (NERC), Krzywoszynska (Faculty then Leverhulme), Little (ESRC-
Future Leaders), Livingstone (NERC then University VC Fellow), Osei-Kwasi (AXA), Reynolds
(NERC Innovation), Riding (Leverhulme), Rowan (VC Fellow; then Royal Society Dorothy
Hodgkin), Sauls (Leverhulme), Sole (Faculty Fellow), Véron (Leverhulme), Ilanko (Commonwealth
Rutherford) and Whaley (GCRF Global Change). Of these, six (Ely, Krzywoszynska, Little,
Livingstone, Rowan and Sole) have secured open-ended positions in Sheffield. This strategy has
enabled us to increase our ECR complement of T&R staff in the 25-39 age bracket to >29%, up
from 17% in 2014, improving the sustainability of the discipline, invigorating our research
environment and investing in the future.

Since 2014, we have made 22 academic appointments including five professors, five professorial
research fellows and 12 lecturers, with seven promotions to senior lecturer (Hammett, Julie Jones,
Sole, Kanai, Livingstone, Swift, Whitworth) and two to reader (Dubow, Ng). In this assessment
period, 16 T&R staff left, including two retirements, with others moving on for personal reasons or
because of upward mobility following trajectories established at Sheffield (e.g. Fields to Berkeley,
Mallon to Groningen). Following an external review in 2018-19, we were able to make new open-
ended appointments in priority areas (Pering, Poveda and Temple), based on our strategy of
moving staff to open-ended contracts wherever possible. Of our Category A staff, ~95% are on
open-ended contracts. We have also appointed a new Departmental Manager, an additional Lab
and Field technician, and eight new professional service staff in research-related roles (research
and finance, media and communications).

In terms of staff development, we prioritise mentoring at all career stages. This is particularly
focused on ECRs but formal elements (e.g. appraisal and face-to-face research meetings,
described above) apply to all staff. Several staff have transitioned to open-ended posts, following
mentoring by senior colleagues (e.g. Kleine for Poveda; Clark for Sole, Livingstone, Rowan, and
Ely; Jackson for Little and Krzywoszynska; Hammett for Temple; Rhodes for Menon; Valentine for

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Lucy Jackson and McGonigle for Pering). Furthermore, Pering, Ely and Krzywoszynska were
initially PhD students in the Unit, evidencing the effectiveness of these interactions over multiple
career stages and sustained timescales. Mentoring has had numerous positive outcomes, e.g.
Ely’s NERC Fellowship; papers in Nature and Science by Livingstone, Ely, Sole and Rowan; and
McGonigle’s mentorship of Cook which led to him becoming a Rolex Young Laureate in 2016, then
a National Geographic Explorer.

Informal mentoring occurs on a day-to-day basis, in corridors and staff rooms and within research
groups. Senior researchers provide support and guidance on ideas and interpretation, writing
articles and grant proposals. More formal mentoring is delivered via a departmental mentoring
scheme, whereby staff members request to be mentored by more senior staff. Colleagues also
participate in the University’s research-led Think Ahead scheme (see REF5a) which is open to all
research-active staff, and which, after induction, matches each mentee with a mentor outside their
department for at least six months. Dubow, Jackson and Pickerill have mentored on this scheme.

Delivery on our strategic commitment to develop excellent research staff begins with probation,
during which an advisor coaches each probationer, clarifying role expectations and ensuring they
receive relevant training (see below). Probationers are allocated reduced teaching and
administrative loads, to expedite their research development. Probation normally lasts three years
but, in cases of exceptional performance, can be completed earlier. Our excellence here is
manifested in three staff finishing probation early (Kanai, Little and Livingstone), with all the other
probationers passing at the end of third year.

Staff appraisal is delivered via the annual Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS), which
enables research goal and planning discussions with a (trained) senior colleague to review
progress against role expectations, receive feedback, identify training and support needs and plan
future career development, via identified SMART objectives for the coming year.

Probation, promotion, and professorial re-banding arrangements have been updated through the
University’s new Academic Career Pathways (ACP) scheme, which provides a framework for
support and progression for research, impact, PGR supervision, leadership and professional
standing, thereby improving clarity and transparency. We have internal ACP leads for physical and
human geography who mentor candidates through the process.

Our strategic objective of developing research staff is also achieved through face-to-face and
online University training resources. Several staff have participated in the Faculty research
leaders’ programme as well as the University-wide Sheffield Leader programme, which develop the
skills required in leadership roles. In addition, the Sheffield Leader Essentials and Impact
programmes cover KE and research co-production as well as personal development and executive
team development. The research institutes also provide specific training to upskill research staff
(e.g. on social research methods in the SMI and on ODA-related issues within SIID). Online
resources include training on creativity, decision-making, networking, project management and
equality, diversity, and inclusion, including implicit bias training.

To expedite early career development, we have implemented the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers pertaining to: recruitment, selection and retention; recognition
and value; support and training; personal and career development; proactive engagement;
diversity and equality and regular progress review. We have established an informal ECR
networking group and a new ECR support policy. A Faculty ECR forum was established and co-
directed by a geographer (Froude). ECRs are represented on the departmental Executive
Committee and have served on Research Committee throughout the entire assessment period.
Four of the five research groups are led by ECRs with support from senior staff members. Our

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
success in ECR development is manifested in 20 of our PDRAs securing University posts, with
others leveraging their research skills to gain employment with organisations such as the
Environment Agency, Defra, the Hydrographic Office and in GIS and other business sectors.

Full and part time staff are eligible for one semester’s research leave after eight semesters’
service, with the aims of enhancing our research environment; attracting new research funding,
PDRAs and fellows; and producing influential publications. Applications must align with
Departmental and Faculty priorities and contribute to the applicant’s career development,
facilitating work which could not be achieved within their standard workload (with 40% designated
research time). 22 staff have taken study leave since 2014 leading to a range of significant
outcomes, including: research monographs (Dubow, Jackson), successful application for an ERC
Advanced Grant (Clark), and 14 other funding awards (e.g. Jones, Swift) and development of
partnerships that underpin impact case studies (e.g. Blake - Food Ladders, Whitworth -
Employment Support).

Our aim of supporting impact is expedited by a dedicated Impact Officer (Whitworth) and Faculty-
funded Impact Associate (Black) as well as through Petley’s innovation and knowledge exchange
role on the University Executive. We also benefited from the University’s participation in the new
KE Framework pilot. We are active in supporting external partnerships including the city and
regional engagement agendas (e.g. Whitworth's employment policy work with Sheffield City
Region) and have provided staff with training and development sessions on impact.

We also support impact through staff secondments to government departments and NGOs,
including Blake to Fareshare, to embed her research into their data and community support
processes; Whitworth to DWP to design national employment support policy, and Little to Defra, to
research bovine TB and post Brexit agricultural policy. These secondments have resulted in
tangible impacts upon policy or process, resulting in two corresponding case studies. Other
secondments include Reynolds to WRAP, researching food waste and sustainable diets.

Impact is included in annual appraisals and in our reward and recognition process, whereby the
ACP framework (see above) puts impact on a par with grant capture, as a criterion for promotion.

Capacity for staff to build and enhance impact is facilitated through workload allocation and
study leave, including support for our case studies.

Our graduate school is pivotal to the success of our research strategy and the vibrancy and
sustainability of the Unit. We aim to attract high quality PhD students, many working on
interdisciplinary topics, providing them with the skills and experience to answer compelling
research questions and to develop independent research careers. We have maintained a
consistent PGR cohort of around 40 across the assessment period, with an upward trajectory in
completions, increasing >25% from 2014 to 2019/20 in an increasingly competitive environment.
This is achieved through an active culture of PGR support, with >80% of our academic staff
supervising. All of our PGRs are working towards standard PhD awards, with none registered for
professional doctorates.

Our PGRs receive studentships from a wide variety of UK and overseas agencies including
Commonwealth, ESRC, EU, NERC and CONACYT (Mexico), via University scholarships, the
White Rose Arts and Humanities Consortium, and industrial funding (e.g. AXA). In total, 30 UK
research council studentships have been held in the Unit over the assessment period, with around
40% of our studentships arising from UKRI, British Academy, UK Charities, international agencies
and EU sources. We are active members of the ESRC White Rose DTP, attracting standard (1+3
and +3) awards and collaborative (CASE) awards with partners such as the Food Standards


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Agency. This Consortium has funded two PhD networks in which Sheffield geographers played a
leading role: on multiculturalism (led by Phillips) and food safety and Big Data (Jackson). We also
contribute strongly to the Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures (where Jackson serves on
the Management and External Engagement boards) which funded >80 PhD students including 10
in the Unit.

In terms of PhD recruitment, monitoring and support, all PGRs have two or more supervisors,
including at least one who has led multiple successful completions, providing training to less
experienced staff. Many supervisory teams are interdisciplinary.

Two staff have oversight of our PhD programmes: Blake (human geography) and Swift (physical
geography), reporting to Research Committee and liaising with supervisors to check progress and
encourage timely completion. Alongside a dedicated professional service staff member, they also
have responsibility for: marketing and recruitment, Faculty and funding body liaison, student
induction and training, confirmation reviews and appointment of examiners. Confirmation (e.g.
transfer from MPhil to PhD status) involves a 5,000-word report covering research design, aims
and objectives, methodology, and budgetary/timetable details, a seminar presentation and a viva
with two staff members (non-supervisors). This also includes ethical approval and risk assessment,
which must be completed prior to fieldwork.

Our doctoral completion rates continue to be very robust with 80% of thesis submissions
occurring on time for PhD students who started in the assessment period (typically four years, with
allowances for approved leaves of absence).

The SMI provides internationally-recognised advanced skills development training in quantitative
and qualitative methods for 1+3 White Rose DTP PhD students as well as for all researchers
across the unit. Training is also provided through the NERC-ACCE DTP (Adapting to the
Challenges of a Changing Environment), the NERC-Aura CDT on Offshore Wind and the
Environment, and the Grantham Centre. University awards have extended stipend support
spanning 3.5 years to accommodate enhanced interdisciplinary training and public engagement. In
addition, the University provides PGR courses on Thesis Mentoring, Getting Unstuck and
Researcher Development, and an additional three-month bursary scheme to enable publication
write-up from the doctoral work.

Our research students are fully integrated into the research environment, at research group and
departmental level. There is a strong focus on publication, with over half (52%) of the PhD students
who graduated during the assessment period publishing, either independently or, in most cases
(72%), jointly with their supervisors. This practice begins at Masters’ level where three students on
the MSc in Polar and Alpine Change (PAC) published first-authored papers in Nature Geoscience
or Nature Communications before beginning their PhD research. Of the 67 PAC students
graduating, 31 then enrolled for PhDs in UK universities and three overseas: in Australia,
Switzerland and the Czech Republic.

We have a sustained commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion pioneered by Pickerill who
initiated monthly EDI working group open meetings. The current EDI lead (Phillips) serves on
Executive Committee and Kleine is a member of the White Rose Gender Equality College. We
have actively participated in Faculty initiatives on race equality, decolonizing the social sciences,
and critical approaches to disability. Valentine chairs the University’s EDI Committee as Senior
LGBTQ+ champion for the Open@TUoS initiative, aimed at progressing LGBTQ+ inclusion across
the University, leading us to become a Top 100 Stonewall Employer for seven years runing. In
2017, Valentine was named in the Financial Times OUTstanding list, also receiving an Excellence
in Diversity award.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
41% of our research staff are women, 16% minority ethnic, and 13% have a declared disability.
Our commitment to EDI is underpinned by sector-leading research on ‘living with difference’, as
demonstrated by Valentine’s ERC-funded research on geographies of encounter. Phillips’ AHRC-
funded work (with Nafhesa Ali) challenged stereotypes about Muslims in Britain, while Olund is
researching neurodiversity within the academy. Our PhD students have also been active on EDI
issues, challenging the ‘whiteness’ of the discipline and rewriting its feminist historiography. We
commissioned PGR student Azeezat Johnson to report on some of the key EDI issues facing the
unit (and the discipline), leading to a series of recommendations for change. Olund has been
prominent in the Critical Race and Ethnicity Network, leading a workshop on intersectionality,
Islamophobia and queerness, and we have recently introduced a mentorship scheme specifically
for researchers with minority ethnic backgrounds.

In line with the University’s sector-wide leadership in EDI (see REF5a), our EDI group has
implemented the following initiatives:

   •   A flexible working policy to improve work-life balance, with five T&R staff currently having
       flexible working arrangements, and a ‘core hours’ policy, with key meetings scheduled
       between 10am-3pm to support parents with schoolchildren.

   •   A proportional reduction in expected performance within the ACP Framework for part time
       staff, across all criteria, including research.

   •   Three of our staff have benefited from the University’s Women Academic Returners
       Programme (Fields, Little, Rowan), which provides financial support to mitigate the impact
       of parental leave on research activities, leading to publications in leading journals and
       impact development work. We also provide private space for breastfeeding.

   •   A fortnightly staff forum is convened by the Director of Staff Development to promote
       researcher wellbeing, one result of which is that two ECR representatives now sit on
       Exec.

   •   Several staff have received support from the Dyslexia and Disability Service via
       adjustments to their work environments, additional technological support and individually-
       tailored occupational health plans. Services are also provided for staff wellbeing and mental
       health, covering stress, the menopause, neurodiversity, managing caring responsibilities
       and fatigue.

   •   All staff receive training to increase awareness of University and departmental EDI
       principles and strategy and must include an EDI objective within the annual SRDS review.
       Phillips ran an externally-facilitated staff development session on effective communication
       and a separate session on academic leadership.

   •   We have followed the University’s code of practice on EDI aspects of this submission,
       giving equal treatment to staff on part-time and fixed-term contracts. An Equality Impact
       Assessment was undertaken of output scoring and selection, with particular attention to
       gender equality.

All staff involved in REF preparation and staff recruitment have completed implicit bias training and
recent appointments (Huang, Kanai, Kumar, Menon, Poveda, Shankar) have had a positive impact
on our ethnic diversity.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Research income enables us to deliver innovative challenge-led and curiosity-driven research.
Our funding strategy emphasizes highly competitive BEIS (UKRI, Royal Society, British Academy),
UK charity (open competition) and EU sources, comprising 88% of our total research income since
2014 (see Fig. 1), as well as fellowship funding for ECRs. The great majority (>80%) of staff have
held at least one grant as PI or Co-I and/or an externally-awarded research fellowship during the
assessment period.

The spread of funding increased during the assessment period, with awards to 26 individuals in
2018-2020 compared to 19 in 2013-15. Total award values have increased to £4.1m (2018-2020)
compared to £1.8m (2013-15) and the value of awards led by Sheffield-based PIs has also
increased, with total PI funding (as a % of overall income) increasing from 86% during 2013-2015
to 91% in 2018-2020. Overall success rates are >30% for ESRC, EPSRC, NERC, STFC and
British Council, suggesting that our research environment helps cultivate innovative ideas and
confirming the effectiveness of our internal review mechanisms.

Clark secured an advanced award from the European Research Council for the £2.2m PalGlac
(Paleoglaciology) project, following two ERC awards in the last REF cycle (Jackson, Valentine),
with the latter LiveDifference project, finishing in this cycle.




                  Fig. 1: Annual research income over the assessment period

PI ESRC grants were secured by six staff, including a £539k ‘Governance after Brexit’ award
(Little) and a £145k UKRI COVID-19 grant (Krzywoszynska) demonstrating our agile response to
current events. We received a £314k grant under the RCUK-Colciencias Research Partnership
scheme (Kanai), a £249k Future Leaders award (Little), standard grants on food freshness (£297k;



                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Jackson) and groundwater sustainability (£289k; Cleaver) as well as an ESRC Nexus award
(£112k; Watson).

PI NERC awards were obtained by 11 staff, including an Independent Research Fellowship
(£483k; Ely), joint NSF-NERC grant (£223k; Rhodes), large grant (£353k; Hodson and Hanna), a
£309k split award (Jones), a standard grant (£272k; Cleaver) and a JPI Climate award (£321k;
Hodson). NERC Urgency funding was received for earthquake research by Rhodes and Bryant,
and the Giant Pine Island Iceberg (Bigg) and Banwart was Co-I on a £593k soil security consortium
grant. NERC funds were also secured via the international opportunities fund (Rhodes), Antarctic
Funding Initiative (Hodson), the NERC Radiocarbon Facility (Clark), Innovation Projects (Bigg) and
the Provisioning of ecosystem services in the Montane tropics (Petley, Kanai).

PI AHRC funding was secured by Reynolds and Phillips, including the latter’s £369k storying
relationships grant. British Academy funding was won by Kanai, Schindler, and Fields, including a
£271k Urban Infrastructure of Wellbeing award (Kanai). We also won funding from BBSRC
(Banwart), MRC (Blake), STFC (Menon and Reynolds) and EPSRC (Watson), and Jackson and
Reynolds have both been Co-Is on further EPSRC awards.

Leverhulme funding was received for Early Career Fellowships (Davies, Krzywoszynska, Sauls
and Véron) and Research Fellowships (Dubow, Julie Jones, McGonigle and Ng).

We have secured £232k contract research funding, which, with consultancy income, supports
technical staffing and lab equipment (with awards from the Laboratoire Mediterraneen de
Prehistoire Europe et Afrique, National Science Foundation, Amaterra Environmental Inc., Coastal
Environments Inc., Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Natural
England, and a range of universities for dating sediments in our luminescence lab (Bateman,
Rhodes).

We have won £376k in external funding to support impact in addition to the Acceleration Awards
detailed above: from Premier Oil, for Bigg’s research on iceberg hazard prediction; from Sheffield
City Council, for Blake’s work on Food Poverty; from Defra, for Little’s work on bovineTB; from the
National Assembly of Wales and Sheffield City Region, for Whitworth’s case study (Employment
Support), and from the Rolex Institute and EPSRC-GCRF, for McGonigle’s case study (Volcano
Monitoring).

Widening our funder portfolio, we have received £787k from 16 further funders including the Royal
Society (Pering, Rowan), RGS-IBG (Hodson; Ralph Brown Expedition Award), the Royal Academy
of Engineering (Kanai), the AXA Research Fund (Jackson), the Norwegian Research Council
(Bigg, Cleaver), the Regional Studies Association (Schindler), EC Marie Curie Fellowship scheme
(Oldekop and Ngwenya), US-AID (Oldekop), the White Rose University Consortium (Romero-
Gonzales), WRAP (Reynolds), Geneva Water Hub (Cleaver), the Academy of Medical Sciences
(Menon), Commonwealth Scholarships Competition (McGonigle), HEFCE’s Catalyst fund
(Banwart, Jackson et al. for the N8 agri-food programme), the Daiwa Foundation (Nem Singh), the
Mount Everest Foundation (Livingstone, Sole), the Urban Studies Foundation and the Independent
Social Research Foundation (Pickerill).

We have secured multiple awards from the Global Challenges Research Fund leveraging our
strong links to SIID, for projects focused on: volcanic hazards in Vanuatu (Pering), electrification in
Tanzania (Watson), land and water access in Uganda (Whaley), and digital innovation in
development (Kleine). Kanai won a GCRF sustainable partnership award for his work on green
fences in Argentina, while Cleaver received a HEFCE ODA award to research development



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
corridors in East Africa. Newton funding was secured via NERC by Banwart and Petley and from
UKRI and STFC for GCRF impact acceleration by Reynolds, Menon, and Rhodes.

Finally, significant funding is already in-hand for the next REF cycle including a major award from
UKRI’s Strategic Priorities Fund on ‘Transforming UK food systems’ (£6.1m, 2021-25, led by
Jackson) to drive food system change, increasing environmental sustainability and improving
public health.

As detailed above, our research is structured into five research groups which have vibrant research
cultures, supporting research bids and career development. These groups have benefited from
investment through:

   •   a departmental research fund (c.£200k over the assessment period, supporting 21 PGRs
       and 56 staff), with the strategic aims of pump-priming new research ideas and
       collaborations and expediting research dissemination through conference attendance and
       organisation, with clear criteria and rapid decision-making to respond to urgent needs. This
       fund has also supported group meetings in Sheffield, e.g. the NERC Centre for Observation
       and Modelling of Earthquakes, Volcanoes and Tectonics’ volcanic gas meeting (Pering;
       Landscape Dynamics group).

   •   instrumentation purchase, e.g. £150k unit investment plus £35k from consultancy
       income, on luminescence reader technology for Rhodes (Landscape Dynamics).

   •   Research fellowships, in areas of research strength funded via University/Faculty
       schemes e.g. GCRF Fellowships to Whaley and Martin in SIID, and VC Fellowship to
       Rowan in ICERS.

The research groups also have strong impact footprints, with fundamental research directly
driving impact. For example, Bigg’s iceberg-tracking work arose from cryospheric science in
ICERS; McGonigle’s volcano technology arose from natural hazards and Earth observation
research within Landscape Dynamics; the impacts on food insecurity (Blake) and UK employment
support (Whitworth) originated within Economic Transformations and Social Change, as did Little’s
work on Defra’s agricultural policy.

Research time is protected via the workload allocation model which provides all T&R staff with a
40% allocation for research, increased for staff with above-target research income or a funded
‘buy-out’ (with replacement teaching).

Our research support capacity has increased significantly (to nine staff) since 2014 and further
bespoke research support is provided to the ISF, SIID and SUI. Our research hub includes a
manager and support officer, who provide expert advice and support on funding opportunities and
the development, costing and administration of grant applications; a finance manager and officer
who manage post-award finances; a PGR officer; and an impact support officer. The former also
participates in the annual face-to-face research meetings between the Research Director and staff,
to advise on upcoming funding and to help coordinate our bid pipeline. A wider pool of Faculty and
University staff support commercialisation, research integrity, contract development and impact.
Our laboratories are supported by three research technicians, and our IT technician supports the
computational research infrastructure.

In terms of IT support, each staff member has a computer with a wide range of pre-installed
programs, for GIS and remote sensing (ArcGIS, Erdas Imagine), statistical and qualitative data
analysis (SPSS, Minitab, NVivo) and scientific programming (Python, Labview, Matlab,
Mathematica, Ansys Fluent). We have invested in a computational suite, containing higher

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
performance machines, for computationally intensive GIS, image processing and climate
modelling, and for the most demanding applications in physical geography (e.g. in glaciology and
volcanology). Staff routinely use the University ShARC and Iceberg high performance computing
clusters. Staff also have access to excellent library facilities including institutional journal
subscriptions and electronic resources such as the EDINA Digimap online data service (covering
Ordnance Survey, historical, geological, LiDAR and marine maps and spatial data) and specialist
sources such as MINTEL’s New Products Database and market insight reports.

Our extensive laboratory facilities enable us to perform virtually all our experimental work in-
house, save that which requires major research council facilities. This infrastructure is focused on
luminescence dating (Bateman, Rhodes), soil science (Menon) and remote sensing
instrumentation (Bryant, McGonigle), with analytical/geochemical capacity including ion
chromatography, particle size analysis, high performance liquid chromatography and FT-IR
spectroscopy.

We have also invested in infrastructure to facilitate impact including spectroscopic and optical
instrumentation which facilitated the research and development underpinning McGonigle’s case
study (Volcano Monitoring), focused on pioneering novel sensing approaches for global volcano
monitoring, and for a NASA lunar lander unit intended to measure hydroxyl in the lunar exosphere.
Our computational resources enabled Bigg’s iceberg tracking work, and Rhodes used our
luminescence facilities to gain new insights into faulting in New Zealand, driving a revised
approach to seismic hazard assessment.

Staff have made considerable use of shared research infrastructure in the UK and overseas,
increasing the ambition and scope of our research. Clark has made extensive use of the NERC
Radiocarbon Lab, the Scottish Universities Environmental Research Centre, and NERC Marine
programme facilities, with two month-long research cruises aboard the RRS James Cook in his
BRITICE-CHRONO work, reconstructing the British-Irish Ice Sheet. Rowan, Clark, and Livingstone
have also used the NERC Cosmogenic Isotope Analysis Facility, and Rowan, the Isotope
Geosciences Laboratory at the British Geological Survey in her research on climate change and
glaciation. Working with Clark, Bradley uses the US National Centre for Atmospheric Research
supercomputing to run coupled climate/ice sheet simulations of the northern hemisphere and
Jones used the US National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) Cori
supercomputer, for climate simulations. Petley’s work on landslide risk used geotechnical
equipment from New Zealand’s national GNS Landslide Laboratory and data from New Zealand’s
national Geonet geophysical hazard monitoring network. Rhodes used the University of
Manchester Electronic Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) facility in research on safe nuclear waste
disposal and Menon accessed the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory Diamond Light Source and ISIS
Neutron and Muon Source to study soil-water-plant interactions.

Our research has benefited from significant (£1.4m) in-kind financial support, much of it by
competitive bidding. For example, the NERC radiocarbon dating (for Clark) was provided free of
charge with a cumulative in-kind value of £340k for 588 dates. Rowan’s isotope dating was
likewise funded in-kind (£31k for the Beryllium dating), as was Jones’ NERSC access, Rhodes’
EPR work and Bigg’s use of the NERC stable isotope facility to study North West Pacific marine
cores.

We have also received in-kind support from: the private sector (Krzywoszynska’s EPSRC and
HEIF-funded work was supported by the Small Robot company, a precision agriculture start up);
charities (Blake’s food poverty work was supported by Fareshare UK and The Bread and Butter
Thing); Museums Sheffield part-funded a collaborative AHRC studentship (Phillips); Defra and
Natural England supported Little’s ESRC-funded agri-environmental governance research;

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Krzywoszynska received citizen science support from Earthwatch, and Reynolds from WRAP. The
breadth of these funding sources evidences the relevance of our research to a wide variety of
stakeholder organisations.

We run several vibrant seminar series as a vital part of our research culture. The seminars
support our strategic objective to address global challenges and to highlight curiosity-driven
research. The weekly physical geography series is typically attended by 30-40 researchers from
MSc students to professors. The human geography series combines high-profile speakers such as
Dick Walker (Berkeley) with ECRs working on topics that are of particular relevance to Sheffield
researchers. We have named Visiting Lectureships, in human (Hart) and physical geography (LR
Moore), whereby visitors meet informally with staff and PGRs, present a specialist seminar and a
public lecture. Recent visitors have included Elspeth Probyn (Sydney), Rick Wilk (Indiana), Geoff
Malpas (Tasmania) and Ruth Lane (Monash). We have also recently instituted an annual Garnett
lecture, honouring our first female professor (1958), and hosted Naomi Hart as Leverhulme Trust
artist-in-residence in 2017-18.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Consistent with our aim of working with external partners to address major global challenges, we
have secured a range of collaborations with key stakeholders in government, business and civil
society. We have also contributed to the research base and to the learned societies, supporting the
health of the discipline and the wider academic environment, working to the benefit of the economy
and society.

Staff have research collaborations with colleagues from >30 UK universities, with the British
Antarctic Survey and the British and Irish geological surveys. We also work with the N8 agri-food
programme (Blake, Jackson, Krzywoszynska, Little and Reynolds), which funded professorial
appointments and KE research fellows via an £8m HEFCE Catalyst grant (with £1m matched
funding from each partner university) and worked with the EPSRC DEMAND centre.

Our excellence in international collaboration is manifested in high-profile outputs including a
Nature paper involving Ely (led by Kingslake, Columbia University), as well as major funded
research programmes (e.g. Clark’s ERC project, with partners in eight European and North
American countries). Jackson’s ERA-Net SUSFOOD project included collaborators in Denmark,
Sweden, and Germany. Kleine provides University leadership on GCRF via multiple ICT4D
projects, funded by ESRC, GCRF and Newton grants, with collaborators in Africa and Latin
America. Menon has conducted GCRF research with partners in India and Bangladesh and GCRF-
funded partner workshops have been run by McGonigle (Perù) and Krzywoszynska (South Africa).

Research collaborations have been supported by funded internships (e.g. Little’s Defra
secondment, which facilitated her successful ESRC bid); research leave (enabling Jones to write a
Leverhulme bid for collaborative work with New Zealand’s National Institute of Water and
Atmospheric Research); hosting conferences (Krzywoszynska obtained Grantham Centre funding
to organise a conference which led to an Environmental Humanities special issue); and external
funding for exploratory trips (enabling Kanai to develop a Newton project with Colombia).

Staff have made strategic visits to key overseas partners in the USA (Buck; to contribute to the
NSF Earthcube programme), Australia (Pickerill, Bateman), Denmark (Krzywoszynska), Singapore
(Rhodes), China (Bateman, Bryant) and Chile (Petley). These links are reinforced via numerous
honorary affiliations: e.g. Hammett at the University of the Free State, South Africa; Rhodes at the
Southern California Earthquake Center and at UCLA; McGonigle at the University of Sydney;

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Davies at the Institute for Latin American Studies; Ng at Otago; Dubow at the Institute of Advanced
Judaic Studies (University of Michigan); Kleine at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society
(Harvard); and Bateman at the University of Western Australia.

In line with our strategic objective to deliver world class impact through external partnerships, we
have significantly increased our engagement with external stakeholders including our Advisory
Group (described above). Staff have engaged with a wide variety of organisations in multiple
sectors, including civil society (e.g. Hammett with RCN Justice et Démocratie in Rwanda); NGOs
(e.g. Kleine with UNICEF and Oxfam); industry (e.g. Bigg’s consultancy for Premier Oil); and local
government (e.g. Whitworth’s secondment to Sheffield City Region Combined Authority, working
on regional employment policy) and national government (e.g. Jackson’s work with Defra and FSA,
detailed below). Clark’s work on glaciated landscapes led to NERC-funded KE activity with Natural
England, Scottish Natural Heritage and National Resources Wales, concerning geological
conservation sites, as well as commercial consultancy for Boliden mining company, Sweden. Swift
is a scientific advisor to the Swiss National Cooperative for the Disposal of Radioactive Waste
(NAGRA), resulting in c.£100k of research funding and a PhD CASE award.

We have had significant impacts on natural hazards stakeholder groups, with Petley delivering
commissioned research for the New Zealand government to assist their recovery from the 2016
Kaikoura Earthquake and Rhodes’ NSF-NERC funded work leading to revision of seismic hazard
assessment protocols in New Zealand. McGonigle and Pering have devised new approaches for
monitoring volcanoes, resulting in contract work (>£130k) for national and local governmental
projects in Chile and Perù, and a NASA contract to adapt this technology for future lunar space
exploration applications. Jones is joint lead of the World Climate Research Programme Polar
Climate Predictability Initiative, funded by the WMO and UNESCO, and Bigg is a Member of the
Pool of Experts for the UN Second World Ocean Assessment.

Staff have had major impacts on government and civil service bodies. Jackson chaired the
Social Science Research Committee for the Food Standards Agency. He serves on Defra’s Social
Science Expert Group and chaired the oversight committee for the National Food Strategy public
dialogues. He also chaired an evidence review on sustainable food systems, which shaped the
European Commission’s new ‘Farm to Fork’ strategy. Blake gave evidence to the UN Rapporteur
for extreme poverty and the House of Lords’ Select Committee on Food, Poverty, Health, and the
Environment. Watson represented UK social science in devising the G7’s microplastic pollution
policy, as well as engaging Defra, the FSA, and Ofgem on sustainability policies. Little has
contributed to Defra’s Biosecurity Action Plan. Krzywoszynska is a member of the Assembly for the
Horizon 2020 Mission for Soil Health and Food, and Bryant has worked with the Namibian Ministry
of Environment and Tourism. Valentine developed a policy brief on climate change and sustainable
development with Sheffield City Council and Baroness Bennett, former leader of the Green Party,
and participated in a Westminster Forum event on ‘Priorities for the National Adaptation
Programme Addressing Climate Change’. Furthermore, Buck’s work has had key impacts on the
development of global climate change policy, via its contribution to the 5 th IPCC report.

With colleagues in SIID, we have engaged NGO, governmental and IGO partners (e.g. Cleaver
with Wateraid, the WWF, UNESCO, the French Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, and
government ministries in Ethiopia, Malawi, and Uganda). Kleine has been an advisor/consultant for
the South African Council for Scientific Research and Innovation, Oxfam, the World Bank, and the
Canadian government, and served on the Strategy Group for Malala’s Fund. Sporton facilitated the
South Yorkshire International Development Network of c.20 NGOs and Kanai worked with the
Centre for Popular Research and Education in Colombia to upgrade their human rights abuse



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
digital database. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, Blake has informed local and national food
response planning (with FareShare UK, Manchester Council and Defra).

As well as leading intellectual agendas, we seek to translate our research via knowledge exchange
and public engagement. Sole and Livingstone’s work on Greenland has attracted significant
media attention (e.g. BBC news, The Independent, Newsweek and the Washington Post). Blake’s
work has been covered in Sky News, BBC Sunday Morning Live and The Independent; Pickerill’s
by the BBC; McGonigle’s Rolex-funded work has been showcased in The Economist, Time
Magazine, National Geographic, Süeddeutche and Billionaire Magazine; Hammett appeared in Al
Jazeera’s ‘Inside Story’, Krzywoszynska in The Guardian, and Valentine was interviewed on BBC
Radio 4 by former Foreign Office Minister Douglas Alexander. Cook has presented at the National
Geographic Explorers’ Festivals and in a film ‘Ice Alive’ which premiered at the RGS-IBG, narrated
by Jim Al-Khalili. Staff are also active in using social media: for example, Petley runs the Landslide
Blog, hosted by the AGU (1.8 million visits since 2015). Krzywoszynska pioneered the Soil Care
Network, an online community of over 350 soil scholars, activists, and publics with a monthly
newsletter.

Numerous staff have presented at ‘Festival of the Mind’ events (a collaboration between the
University and local creative industries), which attracted 53,000 attendees in 2018. In particular,
Ely, Bigg and Jones spoke at the ‘Sounds of the Antarctic’ event in 2018; and Dubow introduced
‘Mountain, Son, Priest’, an award-winning documentary film by departmental PhD student Vaibhav
Kaul. Pering spoke at the city’s ‘Pint of Science’ event, while Blake, Kanai, Cleaver and Jackson
led events for the ESRC Festival of Social Science; Valentine hosted the documentary film
‘Osbomb, Love & Supershop: Performing Sustainable Worlds’ arising from her research, a public
lecture by political scientist, Danielle Allen, and partnerships with the creative sector e.g.
celebrated sculptor Anthony Bennett, whose Sustainability Dancer is now permanently installed on
campus. Blake presented at the Sheffield Food Festival and the Doncaster Food Hack, while
Phillips’ AHRC-funded work was showcased at the Batley Theatre, Huddersfield and The Bradford
Literature Festival.

Clark, Hammett, and Jackson have spoken at Geographical Association (GA) events and made
podcasts for the GA website. Jackson gave an RGS-IBG Monday night lecture on food security
and joined a panel discussion on the future of food (combined audience >800). Pering presented
an RGS-IBG podcast, while Clark and Ely led a public engagement event at Dynamic Earth in
Edinburgh and distributed the BRITICE glacial landform map to all UK secondary school
geography departments. Clark has presented at the East Midlands branch of the Geological
Society of London and to several regional societies. Bateman coordinated a Yorkshire Geological
Society meeting, focused on departmental research. Rowan presented at the Royal Society
Summer Exhibition and the Manchester Science Festival and >10 staff have written articles for The
Conversation and other popular outlets. Finally, we organise the ‘Headstart’ summer school each
year, for c.50 A-level students, as well as conducting regular outreach events for schools, including
tutorials on interdisciplinary climate change research with KS4 students through the national
widening participation charity The Brilliant Club.

Staff have made significant contributions to the sustainability of the discipline via all the major
associations representing British Geography. Jackson chaired the RGS-IBG annual conference in
2016, while Blake, Hammett, Little, Pickerill, Krzywoszynska and Kleine have all convened
sessions at this conference and Valentine served as an invited panellist in 2019. Jackson is
Honorary Vice-President of the GA, and Phillips has spoken on the new A-level content at
numerous GA events, having served on the A-level Curriculum Advisory Board, co-writing the
‘Changing Places’ sections. Martin Jones served as vice chair of the Regional Studies Association

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
while Pickerill chaired the RGS Participatory Geographies Research Group and serves on the HE
Committee. Hammett is Secretary of the RGS Political Geography Research Group. Kleine has
chaired AGMs of the RGS Digital Geographies Research Group since 2016. Clark serves on the
REF2021 UOA-14 sub-panel (nominated by the RGS). We hosted the 2015 RGS Postgraduate
conference when McGonigle gave the keynote address. Valentine serves on the Council of the
Academy of the Social Sciences and chairs its nominations committee. She is an external
assessor for the Royal Irish Academy Gold Medal, an international expert for the Dutch version of
REF for Geography and Planning, and a panel reviewer of the School of Advanced Study for
Research England. Valentine was also appointed as a Trustee of the Academy of Social Sciences,
STEM Education Learning Board and the Assay Office.

Consistent with our strategic goal of contributing to the research base and supporting the vibrancy
of the discipline, 17 staff have had editorial roles in leading geographical journals, spanning the
discipline. They include:

   •   As editor or co-editor: Area (Bryant), Antipode (Pickerill), International Development
       Planning Review (Hammett), Geography (Jackson), Ocean Challenge (Bigg), Water
       Alternatives (Cleaver) and Territory, Politics, Governance (where Martin Jones was
       founding editor).

   •   As associate or review editor: Journal of Maps (Clark), Frontiers in Remote Sensing
       (McGonigle), Journal of Geophysical Research (Rowan), Geografiska Annaler A (Swift),
       International Association of Sedimentologists (Bateman), European Journal of Soil Science
       (Menon), Frontiers in Quaternary Science (Rhodes), Environmental Humanities
       (Krzywoszynska), Frontiers in Earth Science (Ng, Sole) and Frontiers in Environmental
       Science (Bryant).

Staff have also served on editorial boards or guest editors for >20 other journals.

We have served on 17 grant review panels. For example, Valentine chaired the Final Awards
Panel for the British Academy’s Newton Fund programmes (2018) and ESRC’s GCRF Network
Grants Commissioning Panel (2016-17). She also served on the Philip Leverhulme Prize panel for
Geography and on the ESRC Evaluation Committee, Large Grant and Centres Review Panel, CDT
Commissioning Panel, Research Methods Task and Finish Group and on ESRC’s Research
Committee (2015-2018) and Strategic Advisory Network (2018-present). Jackson chaired the
commissioning panel for the ESRC-Brazil Nexus awards while numerous staff have served on peer
review colleges for ESRC (Hammett, Jackson, Kleine); NERC (Bateman, McGonigle, Ely,
Livingstone); EPSRC (Watson); AHRC (Phillips) and GCRF (Kleine). Staff have also served on
funding panels for BBSRC and UKRI Future Leaders (Jackson); Carnegie Trust (Hammett); NSF-
NERC joint programmes (Ng); NERC Large Grants, AXA Research fund, French Agence Nationale
de la Recherche and Portuguese Fundação para a Ciência e a Technologia (Bigg); the RGS
(Pickerill), Mount Everest Foundation (Clark) and the White Rose College of Arts and Humanities
(Dubow).

We have given several national and international keynote presentations. McGonigle was an
invited speaker at the Lindau Nobel Laureate meeting in 2019 in a joint presentation with Nobel
Laureate John Mather. Jackson gave a keynote address at a White Rose event in Brussels
attended by the Vice-Chancellors of York, Leeds, and Sheffield universities. Keynote talks have
also been given at: the International Quaternary Association (Ely); European Geosciences Union
(Bateman, Ely, Clark, Bryant); International Luminescence and ESR Dating conference (Rhodes);
Quaternary Research Association, Geological Society and British Society of Geomorphology
(Clark); International Symposium on Landslides (Petley); Irish Geographers’ conference and

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Intentional Communities conference (Pickerill); International GIS Conference (Kleine); RSA Latin
American Regional Conference (Kanai); and American Association of Philosophy and Literature
(Dubow). Cleaver gave keynotes at the Copenhagen Climate Workshop while Valentine gave
thirteen invited keynotes, in seven countries, including the David M. Smith Lecture at the University
of London.

Staff have been invited to speak at numerous prestigious institutions and universities including:
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Harvard, Shanghai Normal, Wollongong, Macquarie,
Western Sydney, Tasmania, Melbourne, Bayreuth, Tubingen, Roskilde, St Gallen, Aarlborg,
Aarhus, Bergen, Oslo, Roskilde, Oxford, and Cambridge.

Staff have hosted 11 conferences e.g., for the British Society of Geomorphology (Ely, Rowan,
Bryant); NERC Arctic conference (Bigg, Swift, Sole); Windy Day workshop (Bateman, Bryant);
National Luminescence Dating conference (Bateman, Rhodes); NERC COMET Volcanic Gas
meeting (Pering); Re-discovering Soils (Krzywoszynska); Developing Best Practice for Ethical
Research in the Global South (Lucy Jackson); The Future of Social Relations Prejudice and
Togetherness in Times of Crisis (Valentine); and we are hosting the Quaternary Research
Association annual meeting in 2022 (Ely, Clark, Bateman et al.). Finally, Phillips led the Georges
Perec Symposium in Sheffield.

Staff have also convened sessions at key international gatherings including the EGU (Ely, Clark);
INQUA (Clark); AAG (Kleine, Watson); Nordic Geographers and Postcolonial Studies Association
(Phillips); World Congress of Rural Sociology (Little); Development Studies Association and the
Latin American Studies Association (Kanai). Julie Jones was a Programme committee member for
the International Conference on Southern Hemisphere Meteorology and Oceanography in Chile;
Kleine served on the Senior Programme Committee for ICT4D conferences in Singapore, Ann
Arbor and Ahmedabad; and Davies organised a symposium on Race, Space and Activism in Latin
America, for the Institute for Latin American Studies.

Staff have reviewed grant proposals across a wide range of funding bodies including AHRC,
BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC, NERC, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Carnegie Trust, The
Marsden Fund, National Geographic, The Royal Society, DFID, RGS-IBG, European Commission,
European Research Council, NSF, AXA Research Fund, and for national funding bodies in a
further 15 countries.

We have reviewed for high-profile journals such as Nature, Nature Geoscience, Nature Climate
Change, Nature Communications, Nature Food, Science and Scientific Reports, in addition to >70
further physical geography and >80 human geography journals, plus scholarly books for
Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh and Chicago University Presses, Bloomsbury, Palgrave and
Routledge and book series for the RGS-IBG, Routledge, Sage, Edward Elgar and MIT Press.

We have provided collaborative PGR training with colleagues from Leeds, York, Aberystwyth,
Liverpool, Hull, Oxford, Oslo, Southampton, Palermo, Cranfield, Newcastle, ETH Zurich and Brock,
and delivered cross-disciplinary training with eight other Sheffield Departments. PGR training has
involved non-academic partners including Water Aid, Carbon Plus Capital, UPGRO Hidden Crisis
and UNESCO, and our PGR training was commended in the ESRC mid-term review of the White
Rose Social Sciences DTC.

Finally, to underscore the strength of our research environment, Jackson and Valentine were
elected as Fellows of the British Academy, Robinson became a Fellow of the Academy of Social
Sciences and Jackson was elected as a Member of the Academia Europaea. Staff have also
received numerous prizes and awards. Rowan received the European Geosciences Union


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Outstanding Early Career Scientist award, delivering the prestigious Penck lecture to an audience
of >400, as well as the President’s Award of the Geological Society of London. Valentine received
the RGS-IBG Murchison Award for her work on difference, equality and diversity, a Sage Prize for
her article in Sociology (2017) and a Solidarity Award as an Editor of Gender, Place and Culture
(2019). Cook was named a Young Laureate of the Rolex Awards for Enterprise. Rowan and Ely
were (separately) awarded the Dick Chorley Award of the British Society of Geomorphology.
Pering won an Outstanding Student award at the AGU fall meeting; Bateman, the Yorkshire
Geological Society Sorby Medal; Livingstone, the Quaternary Research Association Lewis Penny
medal; and Kanai, the Ashby Prize for most innovative paper in Environment and Planning A (2015
and 2019). Finally, Bigg won the Institute of Marine Engineering, Science and Technology Denny
Medal for the best paper in the Journal of Operational Oceanography and Whaley won the Best
Emerging Regions Article for Environmental Research Letters, both in 2019.




                                                                                         Page 21
