Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University

 Unit of Assessment: Education (UoA23)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 Educational Research at LJMU is organised and promoted by the Centre for Educational
 Research (CERES) which was founded in 2004. CERES strategy is focussed on
 attracting high calibre research active staff, supporting and developing the research
 experience and expertise of staff, and increasing the number and employability of
 research students. Research projects and doctoral studentships are supported through
 institutional- and faculty-distributed QR funding streams and external grant capture.
 Researcher development activities are initiated and hosted by CERES and institution-
 wide programmes of support such as the award winning ACTivator programme run by
 the Leadership & Development Foundation (LDF) and co-delivered by colleagues in
 Research and Innovation Services (RIS).

 Since 2014 the focus of CERES has been dedicated to researcher development; to
 increase the proportion of staff actively engaged in research and the supervision of
 doctoral students. This represented a long-term strategy to lay the foundations to
 enhance the sustainability, and the quality and quantity, of impactful educational
 research at LJMU. This strategy was developed in tandem with structural changes at the
 School and Faculty level for the organisation of undergraduate and postgraduate
 programmes of study in education described below. Since, 2014 two new professorial
 appointments have been made (Putwain and Thomas) who have been central in driving
 forward the implementation of this strategy.

 The School of Teacher Education was merged with the Department of Educational
 Studies in 2016 to form a new School of Education; all education staff and students are
 now under the same institutional umbrella. The School of Education then joined a newly
 constituted Faculty of Education, Health, and Community. In 2019, the School of
 Education moved to the Faculty of Arts, Professional and Social Studies (APSS). This
 large, humanities-focussed Faculty offers greater synergies for the School of Education,
 with several substantial cohorts of practice-based students across the Schools in the
 Faculty. In the School of Education, these are initial teacher education (ITE)
 programmes, the Masters’ programmes in Education and Advanced Educational
 Practice, and the professional doctorate programme (EdD). Overlap with other practice-
 based cohorts in APSS (architecture, graphic design, drama, journalism, forensic
 psychology and criminal justice, professional policing and professional policing practice)
 offers potential opportunities for further development of interdisciplinary research and
 doctoral supervision in new areas.

 CERES is fully committed to supporting research integrity in accordance with the 2020
 LJMU Code of Practice for Research, 2017 RCUK Policy and Guidelines on Governance
 of Good Research Conduct, and the 2019 Universities UK Concordat to Support

                                                                                      Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Integrity. Principles of honesty, rigour, openness and transparency, care and
 respect, and accountability, underpin the CERES Remit, CERES Management Group
 (CMG) Terms of Reference and CERES activities including the approach to member
 support and development, and the impact and research strategy. An adjunct is our
 commitment to, and promotion of, the open research agenda. At meetings and through
 the monthly CERES newsletter, we remind members of the importance of compliance
 with HEFCE requirements for the deposit of manuscripts accepted for publication, and
 enshrine the registration of study design prior to data collection (e.g., with the Centre for
 Open Science). We also encourage the deposit of curated datasets upon project
 completion as good standard practice irrespective of funding body requirements.
 CERES also has a commitment to open access journals
 (https://openjournals.ljmu.ac.uk/) and hosts four such journals with an educational theme
 (Innovations in Practice, PRISM, SPARK, and Transformation in Education).

 Structure
 CERES is co-ordinated by the CMG comprising of Chair, Vice-Chair, Secretary,
 Associate Dean (Research), the School of Education Director, leads from the areas of
 research undertaken in CERES, two post-graduate research representatives (PGR and
 EdD), a lead for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, and an external representative.
 Research in CERES is conducted in four areas of work. These are: 1) Sports Education
 and Coaching, 2) Higher Education Research, 3) Educational Support and Inclusion,
 and 4) The Philosophy, Culture, and History of Education. These areas of work
 represent the broad themes in which research is undertaken and do not function as
 discrete research groups. Staff with diverse interests may conduct research within more
 than one area of work.

 CERES also contains three interdisciplinary research groups of members with aligned
 interests, activities and research projects. These groups are: 1) Critical Pedagogies and
 Theories for Post-Compulsory and Informal Education, 2) Research-Informed
 Pedagogies for Schooling and Learning Improvement, and 3), Sustainability and Social
 Justice. The four areas of work and three research groups represent continuity with the
 five themes comprising CERES research in 2014. The educational technology theme
 was discontinued in 2016 following the retirement of the theme co-ordinator (Prof. C.
 Jones).

 The CERES research groups and respective members from other Academic Schools
 within LJMU, as well as from external institutions, have provided rich opportunities to
 undertake interdisciplinary research and collaborate in doctoral supervision. CERES
 members conduct research that overlaps with cognate disciplines in linguistics
 (Thomas), critical theory (Frankham, Enriquez-Gibson, Thyssen), sociology (Daly),
 sports and exercise science (Cronin, Foulkes, Huntley, Roberts, Whitehead),
 environmental science (Stott), philosophy (Hammond), art and design (McLain),
 psychology (Gallard, Putwain, Wood), and chemistry (Mallaburn). The interdisciplinary
 nature of the research conducted by CERES members is reflected in the foci of the three
 CERES research groups and the diverse programme of research seminars and other



                                                                                        Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colloquia offered by CERES (see https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/research/centres-and-
 institutes/centre-for-educational-research/seminar-series).

 The Critical Pedagogies and Theories for Post-Compulsory and Informal
 Education research group is led by Hammond and comprises of 14 members (7 core; 3
 associate; 4 affiliate) who are academic researchers from LJMU and externally affiliated
 staff from regional further education colleges, Edge Hill University, Huddersfield
 University and Università degli Studi di Sassari (Italy). The foci of this group are the
 post-compulsory areas of further, higher, adult, vocational, community and informal
 education. Members have a keen interest in praxis and the group embraces educational
 theory, philosophy and/or pedagogical practices, which recognise and pursue
 innovative, dynamic and creative approaches to knowledge exchange, collaboration and
 democratic engagement. Work undertaken within this group aims to further
 understanding of critical, utopian, social, technological, vocational and hybrid
 pedagogies, as well as historical and historio-graphical analyses of past, present and
 future permutations of pedagogy and post-compulsory education. Key projects over this
 REF cycle included Transitions: Challenges, Threats & Opportunities across the Post-
 compulsory Sectors (Hammond) and Looking back Going forward: School Time in Flux
 and Flow in Europe and Beyond (Thyssen).

 The Research-Informed Pedagogies for Schooling and Learning Improvement
 research group has 21 members (10 core, 11 associate) is led by Rowley and brings
 together academic researchers from LJMU, practitioner researchers, school leaders and
 CEOs from the voluntary sector (e.g., Merseyside Collaborative Outreach Programme)
 to promote inter-organisational collaboration, knowledge creation and exchange, with a
 focus on social, environmental and inclusive practice. Research themes include
 regional knowledge exchange partnerships, curriculum policy change, aspirational
 outreach programmes, wellbeing and mental health in education, and education for
 sustainable development agendas. Substantive projects over the present REF cycle
 included Shaping Futures with Absolute Chemistry (Mallaburn), the Assessment of, and
 Intervention for Test Anxiety in Secondary School Students (Putwain), and Towards a
 Natural Curriculum in Primary Education (Rowley).

 The Sustainability and Social Justice research group is led by Enriquez-Gibson and
 comprises of 11 members (7 core; 4 associate). This group is made up academic
 researchers at LJMU undertaking research that aims to promote, within the work of
 researchers and practitioners, including students and teachers a focus on sustainability
 and social justice; a prioritisation of ethical and life principles, not just economic priorities
 and measures; a pedagogical commitment to renew and preserve ‘educare’. The
 foundational principle of this group is that all research projects should make a difference.
 The members of this group have undertaken research as a form of social action. Major
 projects have included the Education of Children with Incarcerated Parents (Brookes),
 Intergenerational Informal Learning through Darning, Sewing and Knitting (Boyd), Sari-
 sari Education in the Philippines (Enriquez-Gibson) and the Support of Children who
 have Experienced Parental Separation or Loss (Kay-Flowers).


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research and Impact Strategy

 Over the last period of assessment, the objectives for the unit of assessment were to:

 1. To serve as a focus to cohere and extend existing pedagogic and education-related
    research across the University.
 2. To build and develop significant networks of educational researchers, in respect of
    both research projects and publications, with partner academic institutions in the UK
    and overseas.
 3. To provide a forum for vibrant research debate through seminars, conferences, and
    short research development courses aimed at staff.
 4. To develop research projects exploiting the range of research expertise across the
    University.
 5. To foster and nurture engagement with service users and local communities in the
    planning, delivery and dissemination of research.
 6. To actively promote and support the development of staff in respect of doctoral
    completions.
 7. To support staff who have recently secured a doctorate to engage in supervision of
    doctoral students, and to act as both internal and external Examiners.
 8. To increase recruitment of doctoral Students and engage proactively with them,
    beyond the typical supervisory team model (see Section 2: Post-Graduate Research:
    Training and Supervision).
 9. To facilitate the development and capture of impact arising from research.

 The approach to developing and capturing impact was threefold:

 1. Identify key pathways for all projects and programmes of research, and work with key
    stakeholders to identify how to effectively promote research findings to users.
 2. Embed the dissemination of research findings in professional networks with
    partnership ITE schools to inform practitioners of research findings and how they can
    be utilised.
 3. Support CERES members in the development and capture of their impact work.
    Access and training was provided for the university subscription to the Vertigo
    Ventures Impact Tracker software, four impact-specific sessions were offered in the
    ACTivator programme (‘Building Blocks of Impact’, ‘Exploring Stakeholder
    Engagement’, ‘Maximise your REF Readiness’ and ‘Influencing Policy with
    Research’) and meetings scheduled with the University Impact Officer (see Section
    2: Staff Development).

 The effectiveness of these objectives in steering research in this unit can be evidenced
 through:

 1. Growth: From 2014 to 2021 there was a 93% increase in number of CERES
    members judged to have significant responsibility for conducting independent


                                                                                     Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    research (SRIR; returned as Category A staff to UoA23), an 87% increase in
    numbers of students completing PhDs, ten members of staff who have completed
    doctoral degrees, and re-launch of the EdD programme. Detailed information is
    provided in Section 2 below.
 2. Collaborative Research: CERES members have worked collaboratively on research
    projects and doctoral supervision with academic colleagues from within LJMU (e.g.,
    Cronin’s research with the School of Sport and Exercise Sciences), at other
    institutions in the UK (e.g., Wood’s research with the University of Lancaster), and
    from overseas institutions (e.g., Rudd’s research with the University of Melbourne).
    Furthermore CERES members have worked with key stakeholders, and national and
    international users of research with, for example, the Royal Society for Chemistry
    (Mallaburn), English Football Association (Whitehead), and the European Paralympic
    Committee (Huntley). Detailed information is provided in Sections 3 and 4.
 3. Research Culture: CERES launched a new seminar series in 2016. The continuity
    of the seminar programme demonstrates continued engagement from CERES
    members and research users. CERES members have also hosted research
    exchanges, other colloquia. BERA SIG8 held a meeting hosted by CERES in 2018,
    the 10th EERA Network 17 History of Education Doctoral Summer School was hosted
    be CERES in 2019, and an online doctoral research conference in education hosted
    by CERES in July 2020. Local support and training for doctoral students and staff is
    provided through CERES, and contributions are made to Faculty Research
    Conferences and Jamborees. Detailed information is provided in Sections 3 and 4
    below.
 4. Civic Vision: Since 2016, CERES members have worked with key stakeholders
    (such as the Royal Society for Chemistry, Ofqual and Sport England) to establish
    new collaborative knowledge transfer and impact partnerships. CERES members
    also contributed new innovations in the training and support of school practitioners
    (e.g., training for bereavement counselling and test anxiety intervention), and were
    appointed to governance positions of community-based groups (including schools
    and charitable organisations). Detailed information is provided in Sections 3 and 4
    below.
 5. Impact: The three submitted impact case studies were led by Putwain, Richards,
    and Whitehead. Putwain worked with Ofqual to produce resources for students
    experiencing exam pressure and ITE partnership schools to deliver exam anxiety
    interventions. Richards worked with Sport England to educate and promote the
    benefits of exercise to young women in schools and other community settings.
    Whitehead worked with the English Football Association (FA) to enhance the
    practice of FA coaches. Other examples of working with key stakeholders, described
    in Section 4, include Brookes (HMP Liverpool and The Merseyside Police Violence
    Reduction Partnership), Daly (Global Action Nepal), Boyd (Liverpool City Region
    Combined Authority), Hammond (Further Education College Research Centres),
    Mallaburn (The Royal Society for Chemistry), McLeod (Knowlsey Local Authority),
    Peiser (ITE modern foreign language partnerships), and Stott (Royal Exploration
    Society).



                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aims for the next period of assessment are as follows:

 1. Development of talent and expertise: To develop doctoral and staff research
    expertise; to support associate CERES members in achieving and maintaining status
    as having SRIR in accordance with the University Code of Practice for REF2021.
 2. Attract external funding for research: To increase the quantity and quality of
    research grant applications; to increase external grant income.
 3. Conduct research of the highest calibre: To conduct open, rigorous,
    internationally excellent, and impactful research; to make substantial empirical,
    theoretical and methodological advances in education research and the learning
    sciences.
 4. Civic Vision: To make a substantial contribution to the civic vision of the university;
    to engage with stakeholders and practitioners at regional, national, and international,
    levels; to undertake research that will positively impact on educational institutions,
    teaching staff, and students.
 5. Post-doctoral research: Attract national and international students to undertake
    post-doctoral research study at LJMU; increase the supervisory capacity among the
    staff base; provide an excellent experience and prepare students for a career in
    higher education.
 6. Grow collaborative research in new areas: To capitalise on the move of the
    School of Education, the host CERES school, to a new Faculty in 2019 with research
    collaborations and postgraduate research supervision in new areas.

 Strategy to deliver these aims for the next period of assessment is as follows:

 1. To grow the quantity of external funding applications (Aim 2) and submissions to
    peer-reviewed research journals (Aim 3), CERES members are required to submit 2-
    year research plans for scrutiny by a CERES subcommittee biannually.
 2. A mentoring scheme (Enhancing Academic Practice) to support associate members
    to make the transition from associate to core membership and support core members
    to make applications for internal promotion to Readership (Aim 1).
 3. CERES research groups to drive-up quality through rigorous peer-review of
    manuscripts (Aim 3), research proposals (Aim 2), and knowledge exchange activities
    (Aim 1) at quarterly meetings, organised by the group co-ordinators.
 4. To raise awareness of funding opportunities through circulating funding opportunities
    relevant to CERES and training opportunities for grant-proposal writing on a monthly
    basis (Aim 2).
 5. Active promotion of research findings and active engagement in professional
    research networks through attendance at a minimum of one externally hosted
    conference or other scholarly meeting per year (Aim 1).
 6. Enhance research impact by embedding impact into all research plans and internal
    and external funding applications (Aims 1, 2 and 3). Embed and record impact as
    routine activity through networks of LJMU ITE and research partnership schools, and
    proactively utilise the professional educational, social, and sporting networks, to
    contribute to civic vision (Aims 1, 4 and 5).


                                                                                     Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 7. Continued development of early career researchers (ECRs; those within 5 years of
    completing their doctoral qualification) through the Enhancing Academic Practice
    mentorship scheme to support the development of CERES associate members to
    achieving SRIR status (Aims 1 to 5).
 8. Provide and fund opportunities for PGRs to present work at conferences and other
    forms of colloquia, publish work in peer reviewed journals, become involved in
    supervisor projects, and engage in higher education teaching (Aims 1 and 5).
 9. Active promotion of CERES events, projects, and opportunities, throughout Faculty
    research networks, research centres and institutes, and enhance the standing of
    CERES with a move from research centre to research institute status (Aims 1 to 6).

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 Over the assessment period, staff turnover of senior researchers and leaders has been
 managed effectively. Professors Brundrett (2018), M. Jones (2014), and C. Jones
 (2016), have retired and have been retained with Emeritus status. Succession planning
 for the continued effective leadership of CERES identified skills in researcher
 development, in particular of ECRs, as a priority in the appointment of replacement staff.
 Accordingly, Professors Brundrett and M. Jones were replaced with high-calibre
 appointments, Professors Thomas (2019) and Putwain (2016), respectively. Putwain
 and Thomas are jointly responsible for co-ordination of UoA23 and for establishing and
 implementing the strategic direction of CERES. Succession planning was also used to
 identify CERES members with the potential for future research leadership including
 Hammond (CERES vice-Chair), research group co-ordinators (Enriquez-Gibson and
 Rowley) and EdD programme leader (Gallard).

 There has also been, over the assessment period, substantial development of ECRs
 and staff transitioning to mid-career researchers (MCRs; those >5 years of having
 completed their doctoral qualification, not deemed to be senior (i.e., professors).
 Whitehead was internally promoted to reader in 2019 and the number of SRIR Category
 A staff with permanent contracts has risen from 14 (12.8 FTE) in 2014 to 26 (FTE 25.6)
 in 2020. Eleven existing staff with practice-based backgrounds in education completed
 doctoral degrees during this period (Boyd, Cartmell, Cole, Daly, Gallard, Kendall, Hirst,
 Malone, Martin, Pout, and Smith). In the School of Education, 53% of staff now possess
 a doctoral qualification (up from 42% in 2016 when the School was first constituted).
 Seventeen new staff have begun to engage in Doctoral Supervision for the first time
 (Daly, Brookes, Foulkes, Gallard, Hennessy, Kassem, Kay-Flowers, Kendall, Hirst,
 Mallaburn, Meadows, McLeod, Rudd, Rowley, Smears, Whitehead, and Wood) with
 five staff now also gaining new experience in the role of internal PhD Examiner
 (Brookes, Daly, Enriquez-Gibson, Gallard, Rowley, and Wood). These developmental
 opportunities will further grow our ability to sustain, support and expand the pool of post-
 graduate researchers at CERES.

 Post-Graduate Research: Training and Supervision


                                                                                       Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There is a thriving post-graduate research community at CERES. In the period from 1st
 August 2013 to 31st July 2020 there were 81 students registered (50 full-time, 15
 international) and 43 completions. This represents an 86.9% increase on the 23
 completions of the previous REF cycle. We value and nurture our Doctoral Students
 beyond the typical supervisory relationship through monthly meetings of a Doctoral
 Study Group (DSG), supporting students in submitting to and preparing to present at
 high-profile national and international conferences, providing financial support for PGRs
 to attend conferences (whether in receipt of a bursary and self-funded students), and
 providing opportunities for students to undertake paid teaching and support of
 undergraduate students (detailed below). The quality of research supervision, and the
 wider forms of support we provide, is recognised in our satisfaction rating for supervision
 in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Student Survey of 90%, and our satisfaction rating
 for professional development of 89%. These ratings compare favourably with average
 sector ratings of 86% for supervision and 79% satisfaction rating for professional
 development.

 Frankham leads the monthly DSG, which is a forum for methodological discussion and
 support. The agenda is set by the PGR students and is responsive to their needs. The
 group also functions as an ‘ad hoc’ audience for students to present their work to their
 peers, sometimes as an opportunity to rehearse conference presentations that they go
 on to make at national and international conferences. Wherever possible, students lead
 the discussion and make inputs to the group. The Doctoral Study Group has also
 burgeoned sub-groups to include working collaboratively on publishing (e.g. Frankham
 et al, 2014; Nawaz Bibi, et al 2015; Cliffe et al., work on-going), and a feminist reading
 group.

 From March 2020 onwards, the DSG has continued to meet via Zoom due to the initial
 ‘lockdown’ and subsequent Public Health England tiered restrictions; one focus for
 discussion has been how students’ might redesign or adapt their study as a result of the
 COVID-19 pandemic. The group has also provided a forum to assist with data-gathering
 by students. These have included audience responses to a dance performance and a
 study on parental home education under the COVID-19 lockdown.

 Students have access to Institutional and Faculty funds to support attendance and
 presentation at national and international conferences outside LJMU. Using such funds,
 Elliott presented work from his thesis about the ethics of ethnography at the Annual
 Ethnography Symposium, Copenhagen, Denmark in 2018; Cutler presented work from
 her thesis into the relationship between teacher beliefs and practices at the 2019
 European Association for Research on Learning and Instruction Biannual Conference,
 Aachen, Germany; Bettinson presented work from her thesis regarding fundamental
 British values at the British Educational Research Association, Manchester in 2019.

 Postgraduate Researchers are actively encouraged, and paid (in addition to any
 bursary), to engage in teaching/supporting seminars for undergraduate students through
 the Faculty ‘PGRs into Teaching’ scheme. In order to undertake teaching activities, it is


                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mandatory for students to complete an initial teacher practice programme, the ‘3Is’
 (Information, Ideas, and Insights) provided by the LJMU Teaching and Learning
 Academy. The ‘PGRs into Teaching’ scheme enhances student employability and allows
 the development of important transferable skills.

 Doctoral students also organise their own mini-conferences around areas of mutual
 interest supported by internal Faculty funds (e.g. May 2020: Education of Offenders;
 June 2020: Creativity in Research). These events provide a forum for the presentation
 of their work and to engage in developing important skills for future employment. As a
 consequence of COVID-19, some events have been moved from face-to-face to online
 mode (e.g. the July 2020 conference on Doctoral Research Conference in Education).

 In addition to the traditional PhD programme of study for undertaking PGR, an EdD
 programme (where the PGR component comprises 300 Level 8 credits) is offered by the
 School of Education. The EdD programme makes an important and valuable
 contribution to the aims of CERES through promoting the civic vision of the university,
 facilitating regional and national engagement with stakeholders and practitioners, and
 undertaking research that will positively impact on educational institutions, teaching staff,
 and students.

 The EdD programme was suspended in 2013 due to the School and subsequent Faculty
 re-structure, and the chronic ill-health, and subsequent retirement, of the incumbent
 programme leader (hence no new enrolments until 2019). The EdD programme was re-
 launched in September 2019.

 Doctoral Data for the Period 1st August 2013 to 31st July 2020

                                PhD                                    EdD
                      New                                   New
                                      Completions                            Completions
                   Enrolments                            Enrolments

  2013 – 14             9                  4                  —                   1
  2014 – 15             12                 6                  —                   3
  2015 – 16             17                 5                  —                   1
  2016 – 17             12                 7                  —                   3
  2017 – 18             10                 5                  —                   1
  2018 – 19             13                 5                  —                   1
  2019 – 20             8                  11                 16                  0

  Total                 81                 43                 16                 10



 Over the present REF cycle there has been substantial investment in student bursaries.
 Thirteen full bursaries (tuition fees and stipend) were awarded from competitive Faculty
 funding schemes (Faculty Scholarships), and five full bursaries were funded from

                                                                                        Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 competitive Institutional funding schemes (the Pro Vice Chancellor’s Scholarships run
 annually since 2013). A further two full bursaries were match-funded whereby the
 institution matched costs from external partners (the Football Association and the
 BePART trust).

 EdD students are included in wider PGR community activities, particularly those in the
 thesis stage. Seminars and training events are sensitively scheduled (including twilight
 sessions after the school day is finished) to allow EdD students to attend.

 Staff Development

 Researcher development is supported in two ways. First, CERES staff made extensive
 use of the ACTivator programme. Since 2016, 63 ACTivator workshops have been
 attended by CERES members. Workshops focusing on building impact and stakeholder
 engagement were the most popular (21 attendees) followed by workshops focused on
 preparing successful funding applications (15 attendees). Workshops were attended
 equally by CERES members at all stages of their careers (ECRs, MCRs, and SCRs).
 Three CERES members (Malone, Gallard and Mallaburn; Malone and Gallard are
 ECRs) were successful applicants to the competitive Pro-Vice Chancellor sponsored
 Upskilling initiative (based on mentor-mentee relationship with funding; run as two
 cohorts in 2018 and 2019) in 2019. Three CERES members (Peiser, Putwain and
 Whitehead) supported the scheme as mentors in 2019.

 The University Impact Officer has also met with CERES members in one-to-one, or
 small group meetings, over the REF cycle to support the development and capture of
 impact at all stages of development, ranging from project design and funding application,
 through to the collection of key impact indicators for impact case studies. Over the
 present REF cycle the University Impact Officer has either initiated, or been invited to
 attend, meetings with 15 members of CERES staff and supported CERES staff at
 Faculty research events in 2016 and 2017. The support of the University Impact Officer
 was critical in the development of Putwain’s impact case study, through advising the
 types of evidence that could be used to support evidence of the impact: student
 narratives to provide first-hand accounts of beneficial change following intervention in
 ITE partnership schools, website views and downloads from Ofqual, and how to capture
 change in ITE schools provided with free resources.

 Second, in addition to LDF organised events and the support of RIS staff, CERES hosts
 a series of shorter researcher development events throughout the year. These events
 supported the local development needs of CERES members. Members were informally
 consulted over their development needs and a programme of events approved by the
 CMG. Events were led by CERES members with expertise in a particular area or field.
 To avoid duplication with the ACTivator programme, CERES researcher development
 workshops are specifically focused on issues specifically related to the educational
 research.



                                                                                    Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These workshops have included writing workshops targeted at ECRs and MCRs)
 including ‘From Education Project to Journal Paper’ (facilitated by Peiser in 2019),
 ‘Turning a Conference Presentation into a Peer-Reviewed Paper’ (facilitated by
 Frankham in 2017, 2018 and 2019), ‘Getting into a High Esteem Journal’ (facilitated by
 Frankham 2017, 2018 and 2019), ‘Development of Knowledge Transfer and Impact’
 (facilitated by Putwain in 2017 and 2018), and methodology and analysis workshops
 (Quantitative Analysis facilitated by Putwain, and Qualitative Analysis by Frankham, in
 2018 and 2019). The success of development initiatives can be seen in the ECR
 CERES members with SRIR (Cronin, Foulkes, Daly, Gallard, Kay-Flowers)
 representing 19% of the total Category A staff submitted to UoA23 (in the 2014
 submission, 14% of Category A staff were ECR). Furthermore, the publication of the
 work of ECRs (Cronin, Daly, Foulkes, Gallard, and Rudd), and MCRs (Wood and
 Whitehead), in highly esteemed journals, is reflected in the submitted outputs.

 Associate CERES members are eligible to apply for the CERES Enhancing Academic
 Practice scheme launched in 2019. The purpose of this scheme is twofold. 1) Support
 colleagues in making the transition from associate CERES members, to becoming a full
 CERES member through being recognised by the University as having SRIR. 2) Support
 colleagues in supporting application for internal promotion to Readership.

 Successful applicants to the scheme are provided with mentorship by an experienced
 core CERES member in a series of one-to-one meetings (6 over 12 months). The focus
 of the mentorship varies depending of the specific needs of the individual and includes
 developing a research plan with outcomes, monitoring and recording the achievement of
 outcomes, reading and commenting on draft articles, identifying suitable journals,
 identifying funding opportunities and commenting on draft applications, and how to
 identify and develop academic networks. Nineteen associate CERES members (Ankers
 De Salis, Atherton, Brookes, Broomhead, Daniels, Downes, Garden, Gretton, Hirst,
 Kaseem, Maher, Mallaburn, Malone, McLain, McLeod, Moors, Rowley, Smith, and
 Tynan) have been accepted onto, and being supported through this scheme in order to
 transition to SRIR status. Eleven core members (Broomhead, Daly, Enriquez-Gibson,
 Gallard, Hammond, Kay-Flowers, McLeod, Peiser, Tracey, Wilkinson, and Wood)
 have been accepted onto this scheme in order to support Readership application. Our
 ambition for this scheme is an increase, over the next REF cycle, in the number of core
 CERES members (SRIR status) and internal promotion to Readership.

 CERES has supported the impact work of staff through the aforementioned researcher
 development workshops and also by convening meetings of CERES members who are
 involved in impactful work to discuss and share best practice for capturing impact.
 CERES also arranged for a series of one-to-one meetings and group discussions with
 CERES members involved with impactful work, to discuss impact strategies with Pollard,
 our visiting professor 2016 to 2018. Mallaburn, Putwain, Richards, and Whitehead,
 were successful recipients of internal University funding schemes designed to develop
 impact and capture evidence of indicators. Twenty-one CERES members make use of



                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the LJMU subscription to the Impact Tracker software in order to archive evidence of
 impact events and indicators.

 Support and Promotion of Equality and Diversity
 In common with many university departments with a substantive focus on educational
 research and/ or educating educational practitioners, the staff profile at the end of the
 last REF cycle (2014) was weighted towards those with substantial experience in the
 field of education as practitioners. Over the current REF cycle we have specifically
 looked at ways to broaden the age and gender profile of the unit (specifically, the under-
 representation of males with backgrounds in early years and/ or primary education and
 the promotion of females to Readerships and Chairs).

 Accordingly, CERES has been supporting staff recruitment through identifying
 alternative pathways to recruitment (recruitment including professional networks through
 learned societies and partner schools and colleges) and the launch of the Enhancing
 Academic Practice with mentorship for making internal applications for promotion to
 Reader. In addition, Thomas is a mentor for the institutional Supporting Women’s
 Career Progression mentoring initiative and CERES members (Downes and Mallaburn)
 sit on the School of Education diversity working group. Progress has been achieved,
 over this cycle of the REF in broadening both the gender and age profile of CERES
 members (both full and associate) and the associated academic schools which
 contribute staff to CERES. In 2014, 80% of CERES members (Category A staff returned
 in the REF) were female and 73% over the age of 35 years. In 2020, 46% of core
 CERES members (those with SRIR; returned Category A staff) are female and 68% are
 over the age of 35 years; 14% of the total submitted outputs to REF2 in 2021 are from
 ECR contributions and 69% from MCRs.

 The Black, Asian, and Minority Ethic (BAME) profile of CERES in 2020 (9%) is
 comparable with the overall LJMU profile. The most recent HESA data (2019) showed
 that 10% of LJMU academic staff were from a BAME background which is higher than
 that of the local community; in the 2011 census, 5.9% Liverpool City Region residents
 identified as BAME.

 Staff who are recruited from a practitioner background, and with aspirations to become
 research active, are supported through doctoral study and the transition to CERES
 associate (and eventually) full membership through the Enhancing Academic Practice
 scheme. As indicated in Section 2, 9 staff with practitioner backgrounds have completed
 doctorates in the current REF cycle and 19 staff are have been accepted on the recently
 launched Enhancing Academic Practice scheme. Furthermore, 5 CERES members are
 presently undertaking PhD by publication (Atherton, Garden, McLain, Pratt, and Tynan)
 and 1 member is undertaking an EdD. The specific needs of staff and doctoral students
 (e.g., caring responsibilities and/ or disabilities) are considered and accommodated as
 appropriate through flexible working patterns designed to meet their personal
 circumstances. This allows CERES members to fulfil personal and familial commitments
 while creating space for professional engagement and commitments to flourish.


                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Total external income for the period 1st August 2013 to 31st July 2020 was £252,000.
 Income was generated from a number of sources including UK Research Councils,
 competitive and non-competitive awards from charitable bodies, central and local
 government awards, and EU funding. Apart from one member of staff returning from
 maternity leave, and one member who has recently completed her PhD, all CERES staff
 have held, or have applied for, research funding, over the current REF cycle.

 The profile of CERES members over the REF cycle has transitioned from being mainly
 comprised of senior researchers (professors and experienced MCRs) to that of
 members having moved to MCR status. The majority of CERES MCRs (and ECRs) are
 inexperienced in obtaining external grant income and CERES income generation
 strategy has shifted accordingly. In order to provide insight into the process and time
 required to prepare an external grant application, members with less experience are
 invited to shadow more experienced members who are working on and submitting grant
 applications.

 A complimentary approach is for less experienced CERES members with cognate
 interests to work in teams as co-investigators (CIs), with more experienced members as
 principal investigators (PI) to jointly submit applications for funding. This approach was
 successfully used by Putwain (PI) and Wood (CI) in being awarded funding for a project
 to investigate the role of technology in teaching Key Stage 2 mathematics by the
 Bowland Trust in 2018. Putwain (PI) and Gallard (CI) were awarded funding for a PhD
 studentship to investigate the role of emotional regulation in wellbeing by the BePART
 Trust in 2017, and Morely (PI; now left LJMU) Cronin (CI) were awarded funding for two
 PhD studentships by the FA in 2017 to investigate coaching policy and education.

 ECRs and early stage MCRs are encouraged to seek funding, especially when seeking
 their first external grant income to target schemes with smaller funds available (e.g., the
 British Academy/Leverhulme small grants fund) in order to build up a track record of
 successful funding and project management. This approach was successfully used by
 Hammond who was funded by the British Academy/Leverhulme small grants fund in
 2020 to study critical approaches to pedagogic practice in higher education. ECRs and
 early stage MCRs are also directed towards less-traditional funding streams (e.g.,
 charitable bodies and learned societies) that may be less competitive than the more
 prestigious traditional funding bodies. Wood followed this approach and was funded by
 the Association for the Study of Primary Education in 2018, to examine provision for
 special educational needs and disabilities, and inclusive practice.

 As MCRs build up a track record of funding from smaller sources they are encouraged to
 identify and submit applications for larger grants. Huntley was the recipient of
 prestigious funding from the European Union (2018 – 2021) for research into the


                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 framework for disability sport coaching. Findings from this project have been used by the
 International Hockey Federation’s new Level 1 coach education course (starting 2020).
 In order to alert CERES members to funding opportunities, calls for funding and notices
 of open schemes, are circulated monthly the Faculty Research Funding Co-Ordinator.
 CERES staff can also make use of the University subscriptions to Research
 Professional and GRANTfinder (use of these tools was also the focus of one of the
 aforementioned CERES development events in 2018).

 Funding received by Putwain from the British Academy/Leverhulme in 2017 has led to
 substantial impact in the identification and support of highly exam anxious students.
 Findings from this project have been used in a support guide distributed by Ofqual, a
 resource pack distributed to schools, and an intervention used across schools and
 colleges in England and Wales. Funding received by Whitehead from the English
 Football Association (2018) and English Rugby League (2018) has been used to inform
 key knowledge exchange partnerships with English Football Association, Sport Northern
 Ireland, and UK Coaching. Substantial change has been achieved in the way that
 football, rugby and golf coaches work in the professional (e.g., premier league football
 clubs, rugby football league 1 clubs) as well as amateur (e.g., Liverpool county
 grassroots coaching) game.

 Infrastructure
 The three CERES research groups provides members with closely aligned substantive
 research interests with the organisational space and opportunity to work jointly on
 research projects, publications, knowledge exchange and impact. Groups meet quarterly
 to share news, undertake development events, and to peer-review plans for external
 grant capture, publication, knowledge exchange and impact. Members from all three
 groups have had work published in high-esteem journals (e.g., Frankham, Thyssen,
 and Wood), are engaging in knowledge exchange with key stakeholders (e.g., Daly,
 Kay-Flowers, and Hammond), and impact locally (e.g., Boyd and Mallaburn) and
 nationally (e.g., Putwain).

 Several programmes of research, which have been central to the UoA over the last REF
 cycle, have been assisted through CERES structures and aforementioned University
 level support from the LDF and RIS. Central programmes of research were conducted
 by Thyssen (research into history of education), Hammond (critical pedagogy),
 Frankham (the student experience in higher education), Putwain (test anxiety),
 Whitehead (sports coaching), and Huntley (para-athletic coaching). These programmes
 of research have been supported through external grant capture, University funding
 (e.g., impact awards), support from the University Impact Officer (group and one-to-one
 meetings), away day events organised by CERES, and PhD studentships (funded
 externally and through University scholarships). Workload allocation of CERES
 members is adjusted to account for research responsibilities.

 To support the development of research culture LJMU, CERES hosts a programme of
 monthly research seminars throughout the academic year. Since 2016 there have been


                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 11 presentations from LJMU staff, 6 presentations from LJMU doctoral students, and 25
 presentations from external speakers. CERES seminars are open to all, whether
 members of CERES or not. Up to three seminars per academic year are specifically
 focused on research of direct interest and relevance to school practitioners and EdD
 students (e.g., in 2019-20 we hosted seminars focused on the role of compassion in
 primary and secondary education and Fundamental British Values).

 Since the Covid pandemic outbreak in March 2020, CERES seminars have been hosted
 online and this opportunity used to invite external speakers from further afield and
 promote seminars to a wider audience via professional networks. There were 100
 registrations (the maximum allowable) for the seminar led by Professor David Carless,
 University of Hong Kong, in June 2020. A second innovation, following the Covid
 pandemic outbreak was the inaugural CERES online doctoral research conference in
 education held in July 2020 which attracted submissions from over 100 doctoral
 students, and was attended by over 200. Submissions were received from Australia, the
 United States, Japan, and Nigeria, as well as the UK, making this a truly global event.

 Once per year, CERES has hosted a research exchange (as a stand-alone event, or
 hosted in conjunction with a Faculty research event) with a keynote lecture,
 presentations, and to provide the opportunity for researchers across the institution to
 network, exchange and discuss educational research and impact in both formal and
 non-formal settings. CERES has also attracted visiting academics (doctoral students,
 post-doctoral students, and lecturers) from Finland, Algeria, Germany, Romania, Spain,
 The Netherlands, and China. These collaborations have resulted in jointly authored book
 chapters and journal articles with, for among others Schmitz (University of Amsterdam),
 Hirvonen (University of Eastern Finland) and Santana-Monagas (University of Las
 Palmas de Gran Canaria), and research projects with Leon (University of Las Palmas de
 Gran Canaria: Teacher Communication Style and Self-Determination Theory), Salvador
 (Coimbra University: Compassion and mindfulness interventions for test anxiety) and
 Robson (University of Wollongong: Test anxiety prevalence and correlates in primary
 education).

 Placements for students on undergraduate or taught postgraduate courses are offered
 through a ‘research apprentice’ scheme, launched in 2016, to work on research projects,
 knowledge exchange partnerships, or impact activities, with CERES staff. CERES has
 hosted 22 students who have worked under the supervision of Putwain to deliver test
 anxiety intervention in partnership schools: 2 students from the Edge Hill University
 Department of Psychology, 2 students from the Manchester Institute of Education, and
 18 students from the LJMU School of Psychology.

 Facilities
 All research staff, including research assistants and students, are accommodated in
 well-equipped offices, doctoral students are housed in a dedicated space on the IM
 Marsh campus, along with senior CERES members (including the Director), and Faculty
 research administrators, and allocated their own desk in shared office space. The


                                                                                  Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 location of doctoral students in a central and shared space, allows for interaction and
 informal sharing of ideas, and mutual support networks to develop.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  This section will elaborate on collaboration and contribution through describing the
 activities of the four aforementioned areas of work from 2014 to 2020: 1) Sports
 Education and Coaching, 2) Higher Education Research, 3) Educational Support and
 Inclusion, and 4) The Philosophy, Culture, and History of Education. The research
 undertaken within each area will be described, along with the collaborations involved in
 the production and dissemination of that work, and the contributions of this research to
 the research base, economy, and society. Members from all three CERES research
 groups are represented in these areas of work.

 1) Sports Education and Coaching

 CERES members working in the Sports Education and Coaching theme have
 undertaken major programmes of research into disability sport (Cronin, Huntley,
 Whitehead), coach education (Cronin, Huntley, Roberts, Whitehead), and primary
 school physical education (Cronin, Foulkes, Roberts, Rudd) which include
 collaborations with colleagues based in Norway, Finland, Australia, and the Republic of
 Ireland. Funding has been received from local (e.g., Liverpool County Football
 Association), national (e.g., The Welsh government), and international (e.g., European
 Union, UEFA) bodies. The aforementioned programmes of research have involved
 collaboration with high-profile research users including the English Football Association,
 England Rugby League, UK Coaching, British Cycling, and the European Paralympic
 Committee.

 CERES members working in Sports Education and Coaching have made notable
 contributions to national and academic networks. Cronin Chairs the Para-athletics
 Coaching Group for the International Council for Coaching Excellence (ICCE) with
 members from New Zealand, Canada, and the United States, to develop ICCE policy
 and governance for para-athletics coaching education (2018 to present). Invited keynote
 lectures have been given by Rudd (Scientific Conference on Motor Skill Acquisition,
 2019), Cronin (World Modern Pentathlon Coaches Conference, 2019), Roberts
 (International World Congress on Women in Sport, 2014; International Council for
 Coaching Excellence, 2015; Football Training World Conference on Science and
 Soccer, 2017) and Huntley (British Athletics Para-athletic Coach Symposium, 2019; UK
 coaching conference, 2020).

 Cronin was awarded the Young Scholar of the Year Award 2019 by the International
 Association for Physical Education in Higher Education (https://aiesep.org/2019-young-
 scholars-3-colum-cronin). His research has shown how primary schools can incorporate
 structured movement and dance into the PE curriculum to benefit cognitive
 mechansisms. Whitehead’s research for England Netball coaching
 (https://www.englandnetball.co.uk/back-netball-changing-lives/) has shown how the

                                                                                     Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Back to Netball’ initiative had profound and wide reaching impacts on the participants’
 physical, mental, and social wellbeing (2018). In addition her groundbreaking research
 into ‘think aloud’ have provided new approach for sports coaching and sports coaching
 education that has been taken up in soccer, rugby, tennis, and golf. Huntley has
 developed the European Paracoach Framework, for the International Council for
 Coaching Excellence in 2019 (https://www.europaralympic.org/copy-of-creators),
 supported by best practice case studies and free online resources. This research was
 instrumental in challenging and changing cultural understandings of disability in the
 education of sport coaches.

 2) Higher Education Research

 CERES members working in the area of Higher Education Research have undertaken
 programmes of research into the role of technology in higher education learning
 (Thomas and Tracy), employability and enterprise skills among undergraduate students
 (Dinning and Stott), the use of assessment in higher education (Nixon and Sadler),
 and the National Student Survey (Frankham). Funding has been received from the
 Equality and Human Rights Commission and the British Academy/Leverhulme. Sadler’s
 work on assessment has been incorporated into accreditation criteria by the British
 Association of Sport and Exercise Science (2017) and adopted by good practice in the
 Advanced Higher Education (AHE: formerly the Higher Education Academy) Degree
 Standards Project (2017 – 2020).

 CERES members working in the field of Higher Education Research have made notable
 contributions to scholarly networks. Thomas is a Research Officer for the World
 Association of Online Learning (2012 to present) and has delivered ten invited
 international conference keynote lectures since 2014 and six since moving to LJMU in
 2019 including the International Conference on New Horizons in Education (2020),
 Virtual Worlds Best Practice (2020), and the Cambridge University Press and Laureate
 Digital Learning Colloquium (2020). Frankham gave an invited presentation to IPSOS
 MORI (2015) to report on the findings of research into the National Student Survey.

 Thomas was Co-Editor (2018 to present) of the International Journal of Computer
 Assisted Language Learning and Teaching, the Executive Editor of the Journal of
 Second Language Teaching and Research (2010 – 2019), and the founder of four major
 book series for major publishers: Palgrave Macmillan (2010 and ongoing), Bloomsbury
 (2010 an ongoing), and IGI Global (2010 - 2015). Enriquez-Gibson is editorial board
 member for Journal of Teacher Education and Technology. Frankham is a co-editor and
 executive committee member for Pedagogy, Culture and Society. Peiser is a member of
 the executive committee (2015 to present) and the conference committee of the Teacher
 Education Advancement Network (2017 to present).

 Stott has supported or led numerous expeditions for undergraduates and school
 students (1989 to 2020) and notably was the Chief Scientific Officer for the British
 Exploration Society on international expeditions Svalbard (2015), Peru (2016), and
 Bolivia (2017). Stott was the architect of the first educational resources for students

                                                                                      Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 using Semantic Web 2.0 technologies producing virtual field guides for the Alps and the
 Ingleton Waterfalls (2014). Research on the former was awarded the best paper at the
 Fifth International Conference on Education and eLearning (Thailand, 2015). Stott was
 a visiting professor at Penn State University, USA (2008 to 2017).

 3) Educational Support and Inclusion

 CERES members working in the area of Educational Support and Inclusion have
 undertaken major programmes of work into special educational needs, and disability
 (SEND), and inclusion, (Broomhead, Daly, Dinning, Vickerman and Wood), the
 wellbeing of children and young people (Frankham, Gallard, Putwain and Kay-
 Flowers), and student motivation, emotion and engagement (McIlrory, McLeod,
 Putwain and Wood). Funding has been received from a mixture of sources including
 traditional funding bodies (the British Academy/Leverhulme), charitable bodies (The
 Bowland Trust), commercial organisations (Jackson-Lee solicitors), and professional
 organisations (National College for Teaching and Leadership). Research programmes
 have engaged with national and international networks of researchers based in Turkey,
 Nepal, Germany, Finland, and the United States.

 Programmes of research in Educational Support and Inclusion have involved working
 with key stakeholders. Putwain has worked with the BBC (2016 – 2018:
 https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/articles/1fNYdl1kgwQmNvvw74LGT8S/the-mind-set)
 and Ofqual (2018-19: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/coping-with-exam-
 pressure-a-guide-for-students) to develop resources to help students manage the
 pressures of taking GCSE and A Level exams. Daly has worked with charities nationally
 to promote rights and inclusion in education (Practical Action UK 2012 to 2016) and
 internationally in the design and dissemination of a project examining the educational
 opportunities and barriers for children of migrant families in Nepal (Global Action Nepal,
 2020 and ongoing). Enriquez-Gibson has led a global challenge literacy project
 focused on developing open educational resources, which involves working with the
 Department of Education’s Alternative Learning System and local NGOs in the
 Philippines (2018 and ongoing).

 McIlrory has provided consultancy for Epigeum (based at Imperial College London) for
 the development of professional development courses dealing with the integration of
 pedagogy and technology in online learning in 2015 and 2020. McLeod worked with the
 local authority and the managers of children’s centres 2014 – 2016 to design a project
 examining the readiness of young children for school. These stakeholders were also
 involved in the dissemination of findings to other local authority children’s centres as well
 as through ITE networks. Kay-Flowers was an adviser for the 2018 DfE consultation on
 changes to the teaching of Sex and Relationship Education and PSHE and 2014 to 216
 developed enhanced training for bereavement counsellors working with children in
 school settings that is now used by over 1400 schools throughout the UK
 (https://rainbowsgb.org/research-documents/). Broomhead was a member of 2019
 steering group who co-produced the Chester and Cheshire West Council review of
 provision for children with high need special educational needs and disabilities

                                                                                       Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (http://cmttpublic.cheshirewestandchester.gov.uk/ieListDocuments.aspx?CId=983&MId=
 5900&Ver=4; see agenda item 54).

 Associate members have also been active in working with Stakeholders. Mallaburn has
 collaborated with The Royal Society for Chemistry (RSChem) in the ‘Chemistry for All’
 (CFA; 2014 - 2016), and ‘Absolute Chemistry’ (AC; 2017 and ongoing), outreach
 programmes designed to inspire secondary school students to continue the study of
 Chemistry beyond GCSE. RSChem contributed colleagues to the project steering group
 and played a central role in dissemination of findings through policy documentation (e.g.,
 the ‘Equality in STEM Education report’ commissioned by the All-Party Parliamentary
 Group on Diversity and Inclusion in Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths’).
 Based on findings of CFA and AC, Mallaburn has written knowledge-enhancement
 courses for trainee, and in-practice, teachers that are and accredited through the
 RSChem (2015 to present). RSChem accredited knowledge-enhancement courses
 developed by Mallaburn are presently offered by the University of East London and
 Manchester Metropolitan University.

 In conjunction with the Liverpool City Council (2014 and ongoing), Boyd has established
 a network of community craft cafes across the Liverpool City Region to share
 intergenerational learning of skills such as knitting, needlework, and embroidery
 (https://www.homecare.co.uk/news/article.cfm/id/1593057/Craft-cafe-and-the-lost-art-of-
 button-sewing-brings-together-young-and-old). Working with HMP Liverpool, and The
 Merseyside Police Violence Reduction Partnership (2016 and ongoing), Brookes has
 created a programme of mentorship and the ‘My Time’ app to support the education and
 wellbeing of children of incarcerated prisoners that has received widespread national
 media coverage.

 CERES members working in the field of Educational Support and Inclusion are active in
 professional and scholarly networks. McIory has delivered keynote lectures to the
 Psychological Society of Ireland (2019) and the Association of National Teaching
 Fellows (2019). Daly has given an invited lecture at The Journal of Ethics and Social
 Welfare 10th Anniversary conference in 2016. Putwain has given keynote lectures at
 the European Conference on Psychology and the Behavioural Sciences (2018), the
 Asian Conference on Psychology and the Behavioural Sciences (2019), and the British
 Psychological Society Psychology of Education Section conference (2019). Putwain has
 sat on the British Psychological Society Psychology of Education Section committee
 since 2011 and was Chair from 2012 to 2018.

 The expertise of Putwain in the assessment, development, and reduction of test anxiety
 is shown through invited presentations to the Department for Education (2019), Ofqual
 (2018), invited round table discussants at the All-Party Parliamentary Party Group on
 Psychology (2018) and the British Academy (2019), and through being an appointed
 Assessment Expert for Ofqual (2019 to present). Putwain has also been highly active in
 knowledge exchange activities with eleven workshops run at local secondary schools
 and secondary school Heads’ associations (2014 to 2020). Putwain is also a visiting


                                                                                    Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professor at Oxford Brookes University (2017 to present) and the University of
 Manchester (2018 to present) and was an Associate Editor for two of the leading
 educational journals, Educational Psychology (2015 to 2019) and Learning and
 Individual Differences (2016 to 2019). Putwain remains an editorial board member for
 these two journals and is currently Associate Editor for the British Journal of Educational
 Psychology (2018 to present).

 4) Philosophy, Culture, and History of Education

 Programmes of research have included intercultural understanding through foreign
 language education (Peiser), academic mobility of minority groups (Enriquez-Gibson),
 democratic pedagogy (Hammond), and the social and cultural history of education and
 childhood (Thyssen). Funding has been received from the British Academy/ Leverhulme
 and European Educational Research Association (EERA) to support scholarly activity.
 International collaborations for the aforementioned projects have involved scholars
 based in Belgium, Italy, and Poland, and Cyprus.

 CERES members working in the area of the Philosophy, Culture, and History of
 Education hold key organisational and/ or executive positions in scholarly and
 professional networks. Enriquez-Gibson is the New Realities workstream leader of
 EECERA’s Digital Childhoods, Multimodality and STEM SIG (2019 to present) and was
 a visiting fellow at the Coordinated Management of Meaning Institute, Tucson, Arizona in
 2016. Hammond is the Convenor of the BERA Higher Education SIG, Editor for CDSS
 publications (2015 to present), was Founding Editor and current Deputy Editor of the
 open-access journal PRISM (established 2016), and joined the editorial board of the
 International Journal of Philosophy in 2019.

 Thyssen is a Co-Convenor of Network 17 of EERA (2018 to present), a member of the
 Scientific Committee for the 2016 and 2017 International Conference for the History of
 Education conference, a Visiting Scholar at University of Sassari (2016), a Visiting
 Fellow at the University of Liege (2015 - 2017) and organised for the 2019 EERA’s
 History of Education Doctoral Summer School.

 Instruments developed by Peiser to assess intercultural understanding in learning
 modern foreign languages were accepted into the highly regarded ESRC/ British
 Academy funded IRIS website (https://www.iris-database.org/iris/app/home/index).
 These instruments have been used in subsequent research with an ITS partnership
 school (2013 – 2015) to develop intercultural understanding through a telecollaboration.
 Hammond has created a network of Further Education Research Centres (2016 and
 ongoing) to focus on the unique challenges and opportunities provided by and for
 researchers working in these settings, and an invited sector expert on the 2017 HEFCE/
 Association of Colleges, Enhancing Scholarship project.




                                                                                     Page 20
