Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Structure of research across the submitted unit

 UoA4 research is hosted within the School of Psychology, which is one of 4 Schools in the
 College of Life and Environmental Sciences [REF5a 1]. Our ambition is to foster a distinctive and
 inclusive environment that delivers transformative research. We do this by integrating discovery
 and translation science, working at multiple levels of analysis from single neurons and neural
 systems, through individual behaviours and cognitive processes, and extending to the social
 systems and structures in which they operate. Our research themes and centres ensure that we
 deliver at all these levels, provide support for individuals and teams, and focus and coherence
 for strategic activities.

 We believe that novelty and innovation stem from nurturing individual talent and research visions
 and facilitating interactions among colleagues with complementary interests. We achieve this
 through our 4 research themes: 1) Language, Interaction and Social Cognition; 2) Memory and
 Attention; 3) Mental Health and Wellbeing; and 4) Perception, Cognition and Action. All
 academic staff are affiliated with at least one theme.

 In parallel with our themes, we operate within a strategic plan to ensure we are positioned to
 respond to national and international trends and priorities in research and funding. Our research
 centres articulate this plan, enabling us to connect with researchers across the University to
 form interdisciplinary hubs, to join up discovery, translation and impact, and to give us the
 capacity and visibility to attract large-scale funding to conduct long-term programmes of
 research. The 4 research centres we lead are: the Centre for Human Brain Health (CHBH); the
 Institute for Mental Health (IMH); the Centre for Applied Psychology (CAP) and the Centre for
 Developmental Science (CDS). These centres have benefitted from significant College and
 University strategic investment funding (exceeding £24M) [REF5a 4.2.1 & 4.2.3].

 We believe that a vibrant and stimulating research environment is underpinned by an inclusive,
 equitable and supportive culture where everyone feels able and welcome to contribute. Our
 research themes facilitate both “top-down” and “bottom-up” input to strategy from staff members
 via theme leads who coordinate theme activities and sit on our School Research and Knowledge
 Transfer (RKT) committee. Our current profile of staff on teaching and research and research
 only contracts includes 49.6% women and 10.4% staff from BAME backgrounds. We received a
 Bronze Athena SWAN award in 2012 which was renewed in 2017. Equality, Diversity, and
 Inclusion (EDI) in our School is led by our Director for People and Culture (Beck). Promotion of a
 positive and inclusive environment for our entire community is embedded in all operational and
 decision-making activities. The terms of reference of all School Committees include a
 requirement to monitor and evaluate all activities through this lens. EDI events such as Women
 in Science, Black History Month and LGBT+ and BAME network meetings [REF5a 3.4.5] are
 regularly highlighted in School communications ensuring that updates and School highlights
 capture the full range of actions and behaviours that we value. A successful initiative from our
 undergraduate EDI representatives was a “Women in Science” session, as part of the School’s
 Annual Research Event, which attracted around 60 attendees. The Women in Science session
 is now a regular part of our Research Event. We also provide leadership within the University on
 EDI (e.g. Beck is College EDI lead, Flowe is co-lead for the Institute for Global Innovation
 Gender [REF5a 2.3] Inequality Theme) and outside the University (Wilding sits on the Advance
 HE Athena SWAN Governance Committee and Powell (Head of Clinical Psychology) chairs the
 West Midlands Diversity in Clinical Psychology group).




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period

 We have achieved our 4 key strategic aims set out in 2014:

    1) To Invest in new infrastructure and accommodation
       The University invested £22.6M to relocate the School to a refurbished building [REF5a
       4.2.1] and to build the CHBH [REF5a 4.2.3]. The first phase of the move is complete and
       the final move to relocate all members of staff is set for 2022. The CHBH currently
       comprises 50 Principal Investigators who have access to a new Siemens 3T MR
       scanner, a new MEG scanner, and dedicated laboratories for developing optically
       pumped magnetometers (OPMs), infra-red imaging (FNIRS), TMS/TES and EEG.
       Investment in critical infrastructure has facilitated strategic appointments and is enabling
       breakthrough research on the neuronal oscillatory dynamics supporting cognition e.g. the
       appointment of Jensen, a world leader in the use of MEG to study brain oscillations (one
       of the top 1% most-cited scientists in 2020) has significantly extended our brain
       imaging capabilities. He has overseen development of a software pipeline “FLUX” for
       state-of-the-art analysis of MEG and EEG data and OPM development (supported by a
       £900K BBSRC grant and an £800K Quantum Hub Partnership Resource Award from
       EPSRC).

    2) To stay at the forefront of developing neuroimaging and electrophysiological techniques
       Building on existing expertise in EEG and fMRI (Bagshaw, Hansen, Mayhew, Mazaheri,
       Rotshtein), recent strategic appointments are sustaining our use of state-of-the art brain
       imaging (e.g. Chechlacz, Park) and brain stimulation techniques (Brittain, Hickey), with a
       focus on the use of advanced time-frequency methods to study brain oscillations
       (Hanslmayr Staresina, Wimber). Strategic appointments have also been made in
       machine learning and computational modelling (Apps, Brett, Charest, Lockwood,). There
       have been significant awards to support this work e.g. Charest, Hanslmayr, Hickey and
       Wimber, were awarded ERC grants averaging £1.1M each. Staresina is a Sir Henry Dale
       Fellow and has recently been awarded an ERC Consolidator grant (~£1.8M), Apps is a
       BBSRC David Phillips Fellow and Lockwood an MRC Fellow.

    3) To establish cross-University collaborations
       The establishment of the IMH has provided a focus for cross-University collaborations
       that capitalize on our strengths in basic neuroscience and mental health, supported by
       strategic investment from the University totalling £2.3M, enabling appointments into the
       School (e.g. Broome, Day, Michail, Marwaha, Rogers, Upthegrove). This has facilitated
       success in securing over £10M of new awards since 2016 (around £6M won by members
       of the school) for projects with a distinctive focus on youth mental health that involve
       cross-college collaboration e.g. the clinical and cost-effectiveness of Stimulant compared
       with Non-stimulant medication for adults with Attention-deficit /hyperactivity disorder and
       a history of Psychosis or bi-Polar disorder (Marwaha, £1.9M) is a collaboration with the
       University’s clinical trials unit and Applied Health Institute. Researchers in the CAP are
       leading on collaborations that span all five colleges in the university e.g. The Centre for
       Crime, Justice and Policing includes experts from Business, Law, Psychology, Nursing,
       Computer Science and Social Policy (Co-Director Woodhams £1.2 M) and the Rights for
       Time network (PI Flowe £2.2M GCRF) brings together an intersectoral team from
       English, Sociology. Law and Psychology. We have strategically recruited to areas of
       strength in CHBH, which provides a hub for University-wide collaboration in imaging
       methods, and expertise in neural oscillations, memory and attention (e.g. Hickey,
       Jensen, Mazaheri, Park, Van Zoest) and translation of novel treatments e.g. for minimally
       conscious patients (Cruse and Fernández-Espejo).

    4) To capitalise on growing strength in cognition and development across the lifespan.
       Building on our expertise in multiple facets of human development, we have established
       a new Centre for Developmental Science (CDS) and targeted appointments to foster
       critical mass in research into typical development (from infancy to old age: Bremner;

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Burnett Heyes, Devine, Segaert, Chechlacz) and in neurodevelopmental disorders
        (Richards, Surtees, Woodcock). A distinction of the centre is the application of
        developmental theory and methods to study change across the lifespan. CDS also
        provides a rich new setting for the next phase of the Cerebra Centre for Neuro-
        developmental Disorders, recently awarded continued funding (£850K) from Cerebra.
        CDS aligns with the emphasis of IMH on mental health in adolescents and young adults,
        and we expect the two centres to work closely.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Our strategic aim over the next 5 years is to capitalise on the significant investment we have
 received from the University and from external sources to lead on research that integrates
 discovery, translational, and applied science to maximise impact.

 Our focus will be on 3 key areas:

 Our first aim is to support activities that facilitate the translation of basic research into
 applications that influence policy and practice as well as activities that help orient discovery
 science to questions of relevance beyond the laboratory. Underpinning this strategy is
 research that involves end-users at an early stage and co-creation of research with
 stakeholders. We will learn from our existing successful relationships with third sector and NHS
 and Forensic partners, and user panels, to achieve mutually beneficial long-term relationships
 with end users to generate high quality, impactful research. The work funded by Cerebra, as
 outlined in our impact case study, exemplifies this approach, and is based on strong links with
 support groups, NHS Trusts and schools.

 Second, we will diversify our sources of income, and secure the means to host large scale
 research projects and centres. This will include funding for imaging technologies to ensure
 sustainability of the CHBH. We are capitalising on links with our College of Engineering and
 Physical Sciences to develop new methodologies (optically pumped magnetometers; near-
 infrared imaging). Working with NHS partners is enabling success with NIHR funding (over £4M
 awarded to members of the School since 2017). Building critical mass in research into
 development across the lifespan and the establishment of a new Centre for Developmental
 Science has put us in a position to bid for larger-scale support in this area.

 Third, we will build on existing excellence in interdisciplinary research that meets global
 challenges such as crime and data science and mental health and well-being. We will
 strengthen structural support and interdisciplinary links to Schools within our College and with
 other Colleges within the University, by capitalising on new opportunities for co-location of
 facilities in the refurbished Gisbert Kapp building (due in 2022). We are developing a shared
 research space with the School of Sport, Exercise & Rehabilitation Sciences around research on
 mental and physical well-being, including a clinical research facility. We will also build on current
 expertise in computational neuroscience via our engagement with the Alan Turing Institute
 [REF5a 2.1.5]. Elected Turing Fellow Brett is working with the Institute on projects around the
 teaching of data science. We are promoting a model for PhD training based on supervisory
 teams of academics from at least two different disciplines as well as an external partner and
 have used this model in recent applications for doctoral training schools.

 Enabling research impact

 We enable impact by creating an environment in which all investigators think about the impact of
 their research at the start of their programmes. Discussion of impact is part of the annual
 staff review process [REF5a 3.4.3]. We are successfully drawing down institutional funding for
 impact acceleration (e.g. over 220K in UKRI Impact Acceleration Awards). We also disseminate
 good practice, for example, the IMH organised a session at the University research conference
 in 2019 on Transforming Research in Youth Mental Health.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact is a key strategic focus for all four research centres and is deeply embedded in ways
 of working within the IMH and CAP. The IMH has a Youth Advisory Group in which young
 people help create and shape research e.g., via one-to-one consultations with researchers about
 proposed research and discussions at the IMH Research Strategy Meetings. CAP focuses on
 real-world application of evidence that is achieved through consultancy and engagement with
 stakeholders, as exemplified by the independent evaluation of policing interventions programme
 funded by the College of Policing (CI Woodhams £667K). Translation of on-going research to
 impact policy and practice is supported by direct links between researchers and practitioners
 e.g. the Leverhulme funded international academic-policing practitioner network C-LINK led by
 Woodhams and the recent ESRC award to Colloff for research on harnessing metacognition to
 assess the accuracy of memory reports from children in the Criminal Justice System. CAP also
 supports the needs of practitioners, providing training that leads to sustainable knowledge
 exchange. For example, researchers have worked with the Norfolk and Suffolk Constabularies
 and Police and Crime Commissioners on a programme “Development and Training in Evidence-
 Based Policing”.

 The success of this strategy to invest in support for impact across our School is reflected in our
 diverse set of case studies. These are drawn from Psychiatry (Birchwood/Upthegrove), Clinical
 Psychology (Oliver), Addiction and Community Psychology (Orford), Forensic Psychology
 (Woodhams) and Cognitive science (Raymond). Additional evidence is provided by our ability to
 attract new talent and funding in applied psychology e.g. AXA postdoctoral fellowship awarded
 to Duran and Woodhams.

 In addition to mature programmes of impactful work, we are actively developing impact in the
 area of prevention of self-harm (Michail) and the challenges of identifying and classifying child
 sexual abuse material (Kloess). Work on disorders of consciousness by Cruse and Fernández-
 Espejo is being translated into the development of biomarkers to be used in clinical settings. The
 School impact lead is working with recent appointment Day who is the government’s new Drug
 Recovery Champion to support work on the best treatment for those recovering from drug
 misuse. Support from the ESRC-IAA User Engagement Fund is allowing us to develop an
 attention training programme in schools for children with autism spectrum disorder (Mervorach in
 collaboration with Kossyvaki, from the School of Education).

 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 Supporting interdisciplinarity is a key element of our research strategy. We are leading on a
 number of international interdisciplinary collaborations including: the Global Research Challenge
 funded #Rights4time research network, which consists of multiple projects across Kenya,
 Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine and Rwanda on humanitarian protection, human rights policy and
 practice; and a multimodal neuroimaging research network funded by the strategic partnership
 between the University of Birmingham and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
 [REF5a 2.1.8].

 Our four research themes are broader than traditional “topic” boundaries and the
 interdisciplinary culture in the school is underscored by the fact that many research projects
 cut across themes and centres e.g. ESRC funded project to Wimber (Memory and attention
 theme) and Apperly (Language, Interaction and Social Cognition theme), and a recent ESRC
 award to study the effects of sleep deprivation on social cognition to Surtees (CAP) and
 Bagshaw (CHBH).

 A key strand of our commitment to developing interdisciplinary research has been the
 establishment of the IMH and CHBH and strengthening of support for the CAP, all of which are
 which are interdisciplinary in nature, comprising members from disciplines and colleges across
 the University. The CHBH Steering Committee includes representation across the University
 (Computer Science, Physics and Astronomy, SportExR and the Institute of Cancer and Genomic
 Sciences) and from the University Hospital Birmingham. The IMH also brings together
 researchers from multiple disciplines (e.g. neuroscience, clinical sciences, philosophy, and
 sociology). Also affiliated with the CAP are educational psychologists from the School of

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education and the University’s occupational psychologists from People and Organisational
 Development (POD) and researchers in the College of Social Sciences [REF5a 1].

 The School has played a central role in projects supported by the University’s Institute of
 Advanced Studies (IAS) and Institute for Global Innovation (IGI) [REF5a 2.3]. The IGI has a
 specific mission to bring interdisciplinary teams together to tackle the world’s most pressing
 challenges. The School is leading on the IGI theme of 21st Century Transnational Crime and
 involved in the Resilient Cities Theme (Broome). The School is hosting Global Challenges
 PhD Scholars in Mental Health and Wellbeing, which involve joint supervision of students across
 different Colleges. Several UoA4 researchers (e.g. Broome, Michail, Shapiro; Woodhams) have
 led Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) interdisciplinary workshops, we have hosted an IAS
 Vanguard Interdisciplinary Research Fellow and been awarded Wellcome Trust Institutional
 Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) funding for interdisciplinary collaborations (e.g. to Segaert in
 collaboration with Lucas from Sorter for a project on physical fitness and language decline in
 ageing).

 Open research

 The open science movement has been strongly driven by researchers in psychological science
 and neuroscience, including researchers in our school. We are leading on open science best
 practice: Rotshtein is a founding Editor for registered reports at the journal Cortex. She is a
 member of the Open Science Framework: Registered-reports international steering committee
 and has given key notes on open science e.g. LiveMEEG in 2020 and at the European
 Association of Science Editors conference in 2016. Brett has been involved in open code
 initiatives including software projects for functional brain imaging e.g. creator of the Marsbar
 toolbox for brain imaging data. CHBH has developed an open science web site and video to
 promote best practices: https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/research/centre-human-brain-
 health/open-science.aspx. Throughout the REF period we have focussed on spreading best
 practice, removing barriers to adoption of open science, and institutionalising compliance with
 core principles.

 In 2018, a School working group on open research organised a series of seminars led by
 experts in the School and these have now become a regular feature of our school quarterly
 Research Sessions. We are also building open science best practice into our education
 programmes: writing a pre-registration of research methods and analytic plans is a requirement
 of our MSc research programme, and we plan to extend this to require pre-registration of at least
 one study in each PhD.

 All peer‐reviewed publications at point of acceptance irrespective of format are entered into the
 PURE data management system thereby ensuring our research is open to the public via Green
 self-archiving of all research outputs. We draw on institutional funds to support publication of
 GOLD open access publication for UKRI funded work and publication in fully open access
 journals [REF5a 2.2]. We benefit from agreements with major publishing houses to reduce or
 remove open-access fees. Open data storage is common practice in the School and there is
 support via Library Services for the discovery and re‐use of existing data sets and for
 researchers managing their own data.

 Research integrity

 All research in the School is held to the highest standards of governance and we have rigorous
 processes to ensure that ethical review meets both local and external ethical criteria (processes
 overseen by the School RKT committee and guided by the University Code of Practice for
 Research). There is a School ethical review process for evaluation of Undergraduate and taught
 postgraduate research. Staff and PGR projects are reviewed via a University-level ethical review
 processes overseen by the University Research Governance, Ethics, and Integrity Team [REF5a
 2.2]. A Research Misconduct and Whistle-Blowing Policy and Procedure further ensures
 research integrity is maintained. Oversight of Health and Safety for research is provided by the

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School Health and Safety Committee, whose chair reports to the College level Health and Safety
 Committee. Research involving clinical populations or NHS facilities is subject to NHS ethical
 review and support is provided for clinical trials/psychopharmacology studies by the University
 Clinical Research Compliance Team and Research Governance, Ethics, and Integrity team.
 Research involving laboratory animals is subject to the University ethical committee and Home
 Office licence. Other work is reviewed by the University’s STEM ethics committee, comprised of
 academics (including UoA4 staff) and lay members. Currently 10 members of the School act as
 reviewers and provide advice on policy and practice.


 2. People

 Staffing and recruitment policy

 Our ability to attract, appoint, develop, reward, and retain academic staff of the highest calibre,
 guided by our staffing strategy, has been central to the achievement of our research objectives.
 Since 2014 the number of faculty on contracts with a research and teaching component has
 risen by 20%. All category A eligible staff are on long-term open-ended contracts. The profile of
 teaching and research and research only staff at each grade is: 19.7% Research Staff; 28.2%
 Lecturer; 23.9% Senior Lecturer; 8.5% Reader; 19.7% Professor. We have 6 staff whose
 contracts are split between University and external services, e.g. NHS or forensic services.
 These staff bring expertise in translational research, maintain active collaborations with end
 users of research, and frequently collaborate on the development and evaluation of new
 interventions, treatments, or policies. Clinical academics (Broome, Upthegrove, Marwaha, Day,
 Surtees, Mallikarjun) are fully embedded in research themes/centres.

 Sustainability of our staff structure is underpinned by maintaining a balance between
 experienced and early career researchers within each of our research themes. Our strategy is to
 recruit in areas of research that complement existing strengths and expertise, to ensure
 development, retention, and promotion of staff. The CHBH has provided a focus for attracting
 staff with expertise in cutting edge neuroscience methods (Jensen as Professor; Mazaheri,
 Brittain, Hickey, as SL; and Brett, Charest as L). Other appointments have been directed at
 facilitating translational neuroscience (e.g. Day, Cruse and Fernández-Espejo, van Zoest, Apps,
 Lockwood) and research on youth mental health (Broome, Marwaha, Mallikarjun, Michail,
 Rogers, Upthegrove). Strategic new appointments have enabled us to extend the work of CAP
 to applied cognition (Flowe and Colloff) and build on strengths in sexual offending research
 (Kloess). We have recruited specifically to build strength and diversity in other key areas of
 activity including development across the lifespan (Bremner; Burnett-Heyes, Devine and
 Segaert) and neurodevelopmental disorders (Woodcock, Richards, Surtees).

 The Birmingham Fellows scheme [REF5a 3.4.1] provides five years of enhanced research
 time with Fellows graduating to Lecturer or Senior Lecturer position at the end. We have
 recruited four outstanding researchers to this Scheme during the REF period in key areas of
 strength: social cognition (Cook), youth mental health (Michail), neural mechanisms associated
 with human speech (Park) and the neural mechanisms underlying episodic memory (Staresina).
 These researchers have extended and complement our research base, meaning that we can
 offer excellent support for their career development. We were also awarded a Birmingham-
 Illinois Partnership for Discovery, Engagement and Education (BRIDGE) fellowship [REF5a
 3.4.1] (Chechlacz). Recent early career appointments have been successful in attracting
 research funding (over £6.5 Million in grants). We have also been able to attract senior talent to
 complement existing strengths in youth mental health via the Birmingham Professorial
 Research Fellows scheme [REF5a 3.4.1], which allows for protected research time for the first
 3 years in post (Marwaha).

 As part of our commitment to EDI in recruitment, we use inclusive language in all our
 advertisements along with reference to our Athena SWAN Bronze Award and the University’s
 position as a Stonewall Diversity Champion [REF5a 3.4.5]. Other activities include encouraging

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 applicants from underrepresented groups (e.g. BAME backgrounds) and targeting potential
 female candidates through subject networks. We have facilitated the interview process for
 families with young children. Our processes include providing private spaces to care for infants,
 booking of appropriate family accommodation, and assurance to applicants that evening
 hospitality is optional. Since making these changes we have seen an 320% increase in female
 applicants since 2015, and a 111% increase in females shortlisted. As positions become
 available, we are seeking to increase the diversity of all our academic staff in relation to all
 protected characteristics.

 Equality and diversity in selection of outputs

 Equality and Diversity issues have been a priority in constructing our REF submission and
 informed all our processes. All staff with research responsibility have been involved in the
 internal output reviewing process. In line with the University REF code of practice, a School-level
 output selection panel was convened to review the selection of outputs and to examine
 representativeness by gender, BAME, part/full-time status and career stage. This equality impact
 assessment did not reveal any biases in the attribution of papers from the overall pool of
 publications. Our output selection is an appropriate representation across these categories and
 reflects the diversity of our research Unit. The distribution of outputs across the 4 research
 groups is: 21%/25%/25%/29%.

 Staff development strategy and culture

 Induction and training
 The School induction process checklist ensures that all key information is covered, and
 introductory meetings are scheduled with the Head of School (HoS) and other lead members of
 the School (e.g. Head of Research, Head of Education). All new staff attend the University-level
 induction [REF5a 3.4.2] and are required to complete equality and diversity training as well as
 training on Data Protection; Information Security; Fire awareness and Health and Safety.

 We encourage staff to develop their leadership skills via engagement with University flagship
 training programmes: Senior Leaders Programme (for staff who may be about to take up a
 greater formal leadership role), Emerging Leaders Programme (for staff who are already
 contributing to leadership and who wish to develop their capabilities further) and Research
 Leaders (for senior researchers) and the programme for Developing as a research team
 leader (for ECRs) [REF5a 3.4.4]; 18 Psychology staff have participated in these programmes.
 Three staff have participated in the AURORA leadership programme (Advance HE’s
 leadership development initiative for those who identify as a woman).

 Within our School we run 3 workshops a year on topics suggested by the People and Culture
 Committee including CV planning, promotion, collaboration, impact generation, career
 development and managing research alongside other life demands. Staff also attend research
 training courses run by the College (e.g. Future Fellows Programme) or by the University POD
 team.

 Performance and development review
 The Birmingham annual appraisal scheme is called the Performance and Development Review
 (PDR) [REF5a 3.4.3]. PDR reviewers discuss career planning, training, and promotion (including
 leadership development, career breaks and study leave). The PDR also includes a discussion of
 plans for attracting research funding, achieving and extending impact, and provides a
 mechanism to alert the Head of School to any barriers to progress. To ensure consistency in the
 process, experiences are shared among reviewers in pre- and post- PDR meetings. A separate
 PDR process for Research staff is conducted by a member of staff who is not their PI, with a
 focus on career development. In annual progress review, reviewers explicitly encourage
 inclusivity when discussing promotion and training. In the 2019-20 cycle, female staff at each
 level (L, SL and Reader) level were actively encouraged to apply for promotion where
 appropriate.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Probation
 The usual probationary period for academic staff is three years. During the first month of the
 appointment the HoS works with the probationer to define a Probationary Personal Development
 Plan (PPDP). The planning involves agreement between the probationer and HoS on a clear
 statement of appropriate objectives and formulation of a detailed and practical development
 plan, which is approved by the Head of College. The probationer has a review with the Head of
 School at least once a year, including a review of progress towards the objectives and
 development activity. Probationary staff are assigned a mentor with whom they must meet at
 least 3 times a year.

 Workload management
 The School uses a workload allocation model, which allows for fair comparisons and allocations
 in supporting all staff. Our model provides ring-fenced time to develop and extend impact and
 credits citizenship activities which explicitly include outreach.

 We are committed to flexible and remote working to support equality and diversity as well as
 staff wellbeing. All staff are encouraged to make requests for part time working arrangements/
 flexible working should they need them: 22% of staff with a research role currently work part
 time. Seven colleagues currently make use of flexible arrangements, including 1 male and 1
 female professor and 5 lecturers (3 female, 2 male). All meetings and the monthly School
 research seminars, to which leading external researchers are invited to speak, are held in family-
 friendly core hours (between 10am - 4 pm). School Away Days run between 9:30 and 4pm.

 Our school policy is that all our committees have at least 2 male and 2 female members. We
 have 53% male and 47% female representation on committees. Seven of the twelve committees
 in the School have female chairs. Most members of committees are there because of their
 administrative duties. Thus, committee membership reflects the allocation of these duties in the
 light of School needs and PDR recommendations. Committee overload is avoided by spreading
 the workload and is monitored via the workload model and the PDR process. There is also equal
 representation of men and women as research theme (co)leads. In addition, as part of our
 progression planning, we have actively sought early/mid-career faculty for these roles, and they
 are mentored by senior colleagues.

 Parental and adoption leave
 A clear process has been drawn up to clarify the roles of the HoS, dHoS, and EDI Lead in
 supporting return to work after maternity/paternity/adoption leave and shared parental leave
 [REF5a 3.4.5]. A parental/adoption leave pack, available to all staff, sets out the process. Since
 2014, the University has provided funding to cover faculty leave and now matches enhanced pay
 for Shared Parental Leave with Maternity leave. During leave, staff know that they can but are
 not obliged to use Keeping in Touch days to maintain contact. When staff with responsibilities for
 research return to work, they have teaching and admin duties reduced by one-third for a term to
 help them to focus on their research; temporary staff appointments ensure the burden is not
 spread to others. We have had 2 men take shared parental leave during the REF period. Staff
 returning to work after parental leave have priority for pump priming funds.

 Promotions
 Formal announcements by email invite staff to consider promotion, including links to the
 University process [REF5a 3.4.6]. PDR reviewers flag individuals they believe are working at the
 next level and the HoS follows up by encouraging these staff members to apply for promotion.
 To assist staff in preparing for a promotion application the EDI lead holds shared resources of
 successful applications that can be accessed by any member of staff. A School panel makes
 recommendations on whether an application will be supported and put to the College panel, and,
 if approved, the University panel. We are committed to EDI in the promotions process and this
 information is stated clearly in the documentation. The career pathways for part-time staff are
 equivalent to full-time staff. Impact has equal importance to blue-sky research, and this is
 reflected in the promotion criteria with examples within the School where staff have been
 promoted primarily on impact. The last four internal promotions to professor were women, and

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 women occupy prominent senior leadership positions e.g. EDI lead (Beck) and Director of
 Postgraduate Studies (Thompson). The dHoS role was held by women from 2013-2017 (Beck
 and Higgs). In the 2019-20 cycle the School considered 9 colleagues for promotion (4 female, 5
 male): 4 female and 2 male applicants were then considered by the College promotions team, all
 of whom were confirmed by the University.

 Study leave
 All staff may apply for study leave [REF5a 3.4.3] and this is encouraged by an annual email from
 the HoS. Study leave is taken roughly equally by men and women (11 women and 14 men since
 2015). Our organisation of teaching means that it is straightforward for most staff to take one
 semester of study leave, during which they have no administrative responsibilities and no
 teaching. Study leave may be granted at the rate of one term after completion of each three-year
 period of service. The EDI lead holds copies of successful study leave applications available to
 any interested applicants. Applications are considered by HoS and Head of College. Travel
 during study leave is not an expectation, making study leave open to those with family
 commitments, but a plan of work e.g. towards grant applications is expected. e.g. Higgs visited
 the University of New South Wales which resulted in a successful grant application to ESRC and
 Apperly wrote a recently funded ESRC application during a period of study leave. Staff are
 required to submit a short report following their leave.

 Specific support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 The School has a strong record of early career Research Fellows (RFs) and lecturers gaining
 their own funding and independent fellowships, including ERC Starting grants, UKRI Research
 fellowships and Marie Curie Awards. ECRs have been successful in applying for Wellcome
 Investing in People awards, and Universitas 21 awards to gain experience in other laboratories.

 Early Career Lecturers with research as part of their contract have a reduced teaching and
 administration workload over their first two years, and continue to take fewer undergraduate
 project students than established staff while they remain on probation in order to assist with
 establishment of their research.

 RFs have access to a mentor and grant writing support. School level funding supports
 conference attendance, pilot work and impact events for RFs and they are encouraged to take
 on limited teaching responsibilities – supervising a project student or a guest lecture in their area
 of expertise – to gain experience useful for when applying for tenured posts.

 Our University provides support for ECRs via the Postdoctoral / Early Researcher Career
 Development and Training (PERCAT) scheme [REF5a 3.3]; PERCAT runs an Annual Research
 Gala, Master classes, Writing workshops, Careers Seminars, and an Annual Athena SWAN
 themed event (since 2016): “From PERCAT to Professor” (2016), “Handling non-academic
 problems in the academic environment” (2017) that have been attended by RFs from the school.

 A School Research Staff committee represents the interests of all ECRs on research only
 contracts and organises social activities, and the chair of this committee reports to the School
 Committee and sits on the School RKT committee. ECRs are consulted on new appointments
 and other strategic matters and can invite School Seminar speakers via the Research Groups.
 We allocate School funds to bring in prestigious international female speakers to the School
 Research Seminars and we have a policy of inviting and prioritising seminar questions from
 ECRs.

 Supporting wellbeing

 In addition to University level wellbeing services and initiatives [REF5a 3.4.5], at School level we
 have introduced regular events to raise awareness of the importance of physical and mental
 self-care and promote and maintain a healthy work-life balance for staff and students.
 Specific events include community-building experiences, such as bi-weekly Art Evenings and
 regular film screenings, a Progressive Muscle Relaxation and yoga course, a weekly running

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 club and PhD/Post-Doc Silent Study Sessions. The School offers targeted support for those with
 protected characteristics, ensuring that these colleagues are accessing research-support
 services the School offers as well as professional development opportunities. Staff are
 supported by a School mentoring scheme which is open to all and overseen by a mentoring
 lead. Mentors receive specific training and provide formal input into the probationary process.
 Peer mentoring (primarily aimed at 3–5 years post-probation) and coaching is also available, the
 latter being provided by the University’s POD team. Staff can also discuss support and equality
 and diversity issues and other confidential issues as part of their PDR. For PGR students, we
 run a ‘buddy’ scheme, which means that every new student is allocated to a senior student at
 the beginning of their study.

 Procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and business,
 industry or public or third sector bodies

 As part of our recent drive to increase exchange with industry we have been hosting regular
 workshops on business engagement. We have surveyed staff to track new business activities
 and are working with the College Business Engagement team [REF5a 4.1] to support and to
 grow these relationships. Several of our staff are engaged in consultancy (see examples in
 section 4) and are involved in CASE awards. They are supported by the University Enterprise
 services [REF5a 4.1] who provide advice on market research for business development as well
 as running events including drop-in sessions and business breakfasts. The College Business
 Engagement team assists with relationship management, budgeting and contracts. With support
 from the Development and Alumni Relations Office and the Birmingham in Action campaign
 [REF5a 4.1], we have been working with HSBC UK as founding donor to support research into
 Youth Mental Health.

 Recognition and support for staff delivering research and impact.

 We recognise the demands of pursuing impact case studies and have procedures to ensure the
 case leads are supported. Institutional recognition of impact has been mirrored in our School
 PDR process, where we have encouraged colleagues to develop impact as a basis for individual
 success. Impact is celebrated through annual University Impact Awards (e.g. Woodhams and
 colleagues were awarded the College of Social Sciences' Outstanding Impact Prize 2019 and
 Flowe was shortlisted in the category of Outstanding Emerging Impact for the University Impact
 Awards). We have a dedicated School impact lead who supports staff via advice on embedding
 impact at the earliest stages of the research process. As part of this support, the School runs
 regular workshops on understanding and evidencing impact, working with policymakers, as well
 as development of resources for disseminating research to users. College pump-priming funds
 support the ongoing development of impactful projects and mentoring early career researchers
 in impact activities. The College Research Planning Partner also offers one-to-one coaching for
 researchers developing research impact [REF5a 4.1].

 Research students

 We have a vibrant and diverse PhD student group: 259 students graduated under the
 supervision of UoA staff (share of supervision 244 FTE) during the REF period.

 Recruitment of doctoral research students
 We attract the highest quality PhD students. Advertising is via diverse media including findaPhD,
 jobs.ac.uk, personal research networks/web sites. To encourage diversity in applications, we
 reviewed images/videos used on our web site to be as inclusive as possible. We have 12 videos
 of postgraduate students including 6 men and 6 women of which 6 are BAME students. The
 University supports recruitment via its International Office, with focused activity in China and
 India and supports high calibre students with a range of funded scholarships. Applicants are
 required to be interviewed by at least two members of staff.



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Doctoral studentships

 We are a key partner in 3 large-scale Midlands doctoral training programmes with Warwick,
 Leicester, and Nottingham Universities: an ESRC social sciences doctoral training centre, the
 BBSRC biosciences “MIBPT” programme, and the MRC’s biomedical “IMPACT” DTP. We are
 also a partner in the University-hosted EPSRC Physical Sciences of Imaging in the Biomedical
 Sciences CDT. The high quality of our applicants means we bid successfully for studentships.
 We have been successful in securing grant-linked studentships (e.g. ERC funded), grants from
 charities (e.g. Bailey Thomas Charitable Funds) and employers (e.g. HM Prison Service). We
 have been able to use University resources, as well as CASE schemes, to attract matching
 funding for 18 studentships from private and third-sector organisations and other Universities
 (e.g. University of Amsterdam and University of Paris Saclay).

 Training needs and support mechanisms
 All PhD students in the School complete a Development Needs Analysis at the start of each
 year to identify specific areas for development in relation to personal effectiveness, research
 methods, governance and ethics, impact, public engagement and Equality and Diversity. In the
 first year, they attend four courses and can choose from a variety provided by the University’s
 Graduate School and the School, such as advanced research methods, Matlab programming,
 thesis writing, teaching, open science, and viva preparation. We also run a workshop tailored to
 the needs of part-time students. All students prepare a data management plan. In subsequent
 years, courses are chosen based on needs. Most PhD students gain valuable teaching
 experience through paid Teaching Assistance work, which helps with employability. Support for
 international students is provided by the International Students Advisory Service (ISAS) and
 English for International Students Unit (EISU). The Doctoral Training Centres offer funded
 students the chance to complete a Post Graduate Certificate in Advanced Research
 Methods and Skills (PGARMS programme).

 Progress monitoring.
 PhD students’ progress is assessed regularly with their supervisors, recorded monthly on an
 online system. There is also an Annual Review form completed by the student and supervisor
 and signed off by the PGR Director. Formal stages in progress monitoring and feedback occur at
 3 months (250-word summary), 9 months (5000 word report and viva voce examination with
 independent member of staff) and 24 months (review of a draft thesis chapter).

 Career support
 All PhD students have access to tailored careers events run by the Graduate School including
 PhD Job Club Tutorials and face to face advice on careers. We run psychology specific events
 e.g. with external speakers having neuroscience PhDs who have gone on to careers outside of
 academia.

 Participation in the academic life of the School
 The School Postgraduate Staff-Student Liaison Committee meets four times a year, is chaired
 by the elected PhD student rep, and reports to the School Committee. Research students
 feature prominently at our annual School Research Event, with all 1st year PhD and MRes
 students presenting posters, and all 2nd year PhD students giving talks, alongside presentations
 from staff. Research students participate in outreach activities, e.g. in Brain Awareness Week.

 PGR Facilities.
 All PhD students have their own desk and computer. Students on Doctoral training programmes
 have a yearly budget to fund research and training. The School funds all others with a small
 annual budget and ensures every PhD student can attend one major (international level)
 conference. Students are encouraged to acquire new research techniques and use the
 equipment available in the school. Students who use fMRI in their PhD can apply for free
 scanning time.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR Recognition
 A key indicator of our quality research environment is that PGRs regularly publish their research
 in top tier journals as first author. A PhD/supervisor agreement is signed recognising the
 student’s intellectual rights. PGRs have also been awarded an impressive number and range of
 prizes and awards over the REF period e.g. the 2017 University of Birmingham Three Minute
 Thesis competition; a finalist in the 2017 ESRC Writing Competition; the Linda Mealey Award
 from the International Society for Human Ethology; and the 2019 Cheryl Wynne Hare Award
 from the Society for the Scientific Study of Psychopathy.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and strategies for generating income to support research/impact

 We secured over £28M funding from new research grants during the period 2014-2019/2020
 from a wide range of funders including the European Commission, ESRC, EPSRC, MRC,
 BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Foundation, as well as NIHR and the Department of
 Health (37% from research councils; 30% from EU government bodies; 18% UK charities).
 Excellent staff appointments, and processes to maximise the quality of grant applications (e.g.
 grant review and support from the College pre-award research team), have ensured this success
 in a challenging funding environment.

 Our strategy of integrating excellent discovery and translation science in our research centres is
 aligned with trends in funding and enables us to increase the proportion of our research that is
 funded by large funding tranches. Complementing this, we are using the annual staff review
 process to incentivise and enable eligible faculty to apply for such funding. We are committed to
 providing a thriving research environment that enables staff and students to be active in
 research and impact. We recognise and value the diversity of research in the School and
 support research as a core part of what all members of academic staff do by providing support
 and resources to all.

 Funding development is supported by a School-level review process, led by an experienced
 member of professorial staff. We encourage pitching of grant ideas at theme meetings, and
 more formally at the quarterly School Research Meeting. There is mandatory review of the main
 case for support within Research Themes, and of the full application by a senior colleague. The
 grant review process also includes the option for advice on unsuccessful applications. One
 recent example of this approach enabled an ECR to repurpose an unsuccessful bid to the
 Leverhulme Trust for an ESRC New Investigator application, which was successful.

 Staff who sit/have sat on grant panels provide one-to-one support for early career researchers
 and colleagues who have not had recent funding (there is School representation for ESRC,
 MRC, EPSRC and Welcome and from Lee who chairs the College BBSRC strategic advisory
 group). The College Research Support Office maintains a library of successful grant proposals,
 which are made available to applicants. A School-level fund pump primes research and impact
 activity. We prioritise applications that include new collaborations across research themes.
 Research groups also organise pre-submission review of papers to maximise the potential of
 research outputs as well as identifying opportunities to enhance the quality of underlying data
 through additional fieldwork. Staff receive a £500 allocation each year from School funds to
 support research and impact activity. We have also introduced an equalities Travel Grant for any
 member of staff to apply for funds to support travel for research/conference/training to cover
 additional costs related to personal characteristics – e.g. childcare, disability.

 We supplement College and University workshops with our Quarterly School Research Meeting
 that has involved sessions on grant writing and achieving impact. The College Research Support
 Office (RSO) provides monthly updates on funding opportunities and directs staff to specific
 schemes. A college “grant support framework” facilitates the pre-planning of research support.
 Other support available at College level includes advising on call requirements, providing

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 feedback on applications, organisation of visits from UKRI representatives, preparation of mock
 funder interviews and post-award support.

 Facilities and investment

 The University has invested substantially in our infrastructure over the REF period including
 refurbishment of a new Psychology building containing offices and labs [REF5a 4.2.1]. A
 highlight has been the new adjacent CHBH imaging centre [REF5a 4.2.3] that houses a 3T
 Siemens scanner, a Neuromag TRUIX MEG system; functional near infrared (fNIRS), EEG,
 TMS and exercise laboratories.

 Within the School we have 8100m2 of space comprising a wide range of state-of-the art
 laboratories and technical facilities to support research across the research themes. The
 University plans to invest a further £3M by 2022 to collocate the entire School of psychology in 3
 adjacent buildings.

 Other specialist facilities include a sleep laboratory housing a state-of-the-art EEG system; an
 Eye-Movement Lab; sound attenuating booths and speech recording equipment; haptic force
 feedback and motion tracking systems; force plates for measuring ground reaction forces;
 equipment to collect data using habituation or preferential looking methods in children; a suite of
 dedicated rooms supported by a kitchen for the assessment of eating behaviours; facilities for
 administration of drugs and blood taking and storage and physical examination of participants
 taking part in psychopharmacology studies.

 Sustainability of facilities is supported by the policy of matching bids for substantial equipment
 from funding councils, coordination of bids to facilitate shared costs, and capacity to support
 research, including pump priming for research and equipment of around £40kp/a. The University
 technology platform provides access to high quality instruments and a charging policy to ensure
 replacement and updating [REF5a 4.4].

 Collaborative use of infrastructure

 To achieve the maximum benefit on research and impact in the School, many facilities are
 housed in research space that is either freely bookable, or under the control of a committee of
 users. In line with our strong culture of collaboration, sharing of space/equipment is
 commonplace.

 We are users of the Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility at the University Hospital.
 Facilities include an outpatient area, inpatient beds, and consultation rooms for drug
 administration. We are also a user of the University of Birmingham facility for laboratory animals.
 We are users of the Birmingham Environment for Academic Research (BEAR) IT resource
 [REF5a 4.4].

 We have a joint appointment between Birmingham and Nottingham (Mullinger), which facilitates
 collaborative use of equipment (e.g. of 7T fMRI scanner at Nottingham, MEG at Birmingham).
 For the future, we will be building on a recent bilateral agreement with University of Illinois
 Urbana Champaign (UIUC), that allows exchanges of MRI sequences. We are involved in local
 research networks in sleep (Co-chair: Staresina) and epilepsy (Chair: Bagshaw) which bring
 together scientists and clinicians on joint projects and collaborative use of equipment. We
 participate in the ‘Midlands Innovation’ equipment sharing initiative [REF5a 2.1.5] between the
 Universities of Birmingham, Nottingham, Leicester, Warwick, Aston, Cranfield, Keele and
 Loughborough. A searchable online database enables the ability to search through public
 equipment records from each MI University and includes descriptions and specifications of the
 equipment, location and contact details for more information and to make bookings and ensure
 efficient use of equipment. We are also part of the Midlands Medical Imaging Network (MMIN),
 which facilitates collaboration and access to equipment. MMIN has membership from all MI
 universities (Chair: Bagshaw).

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Support for and effectiveness of research collaborations

 Collaborations contribute to the high quality of our research and we encourage colleagues via
 the PDR process to explore collaborations and opportunities for internationalising their research.
 Small scale funding is available from the College for knowledge transfer activities and
 International activity e.g. staff can receive up to £1000 a year to support overseas travel aimed
 at enhancing international profile. The success of our collaborations is reflected in our many
 collaborative grants and papers. In the REF period 49.8% of published research articles in
 UOA4 involved an international collaboration.

 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries, audiences

 Relationships with overseas HEIs/Research Networks
 We are part of the European University of Well-Being [REF5a 2.1.8] which is a new alliance of
 seven top European universities with a mission to define how a modern, civic, and
 entrepreneurial university can support social and individual well-being in a global setting. We
 have strong links with the Orygen centre of excellence in Melbourne University [REF5a 2.1.8]
 facilitated by the joint appointment of Wood and the Priestley PhD Scholarships’ programme
 jointly funded by Melbourne. The UK-India collaboration for school-based Mental Health
 prevention set up by Mallikarjun involves the NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health and
 Neurosciences, India) and Sangath (Third sector organisation, India). We have a strategic
 collaboration via our BRIDGE Fellow [REF5a 3.4.1] (Chechlacz) to the Beckman Institute,
 UIUC and staff have supervised PhD students funded by Bilateral arrangements with Brazil
 (Lee and Bagshaw) and France (Higgs). There are links to Nanjing China [REF5a 2.1.8] via a
 collaboration on the use of oscillations as a marker of pedagogical success (Shapiro with
 Youdell from the School of Education). Apps is a core member of the Hub for Research Into
 Intergenerational Vulnerability To Exploitation and National Joint Team Lead International
 Collaboration on the Social & Moral Psychology of COVID-19. Members of the School have also
 been awarded visiting Fellowships e.g. Higgs a Jean D’Alambert fellowship from University of
 Paris Saclay and Shapiro, Peter Wall Institute Visiting Scholar, University of British Columbia.

 Relationships with NHS, Police and forensic services
 We have close links with the NHS, particularly through Birmingham Health Partners [REF5a
 2.1.3] (a strategic alliance between the University of Birmingham and two NHS Foundation
 Trusts – Birmingham Women’s & Children’s, and University Hospitals Birmingham), the
 Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust and Forward Thinking
 Birmingham. Forward Thinking Birmingham is the largest 0-25 age group mental health service
 in the UK and this connection provides a unique opportunity for research on early intervention.
 Upthegrove is the Birmingham Health Partners Pillar Lead for Health and Wellbeing and
 provides service input to operational policy for the Birmingham Women’s and Children’s NHS
 Trust Strategy on Early Intervention. There are links with the NHS in conducting single-unit firing
 invasively in epileptic patients undergoing pre-surgical evaluation (Hanslmayr/Staresina in
 collaboration with University Hospital Birmingham) and on language acquisition in children
 with language delays and to develop new interventions for these children (Olson; Krott).
 Fernandez-Espejo has collaborative projects with the Wellington Hospital and local NHS Sites
 (Moseley Hall, Leamington Spa Hospital) on the clinical effects of brain stimulation in patients
 with disorders of consciousness. The School is the hub for the C-LINK academic-practitioner
 network between researchers and police organisations in 11 countries, to collaborate on the
 development of advanced methods of crime linkage (Woodhams). We also host the police-
 funded Academic Advisory Group for Police and Government, providing opportunities for
 collaboration and the co-production of research to target serious offenders. These links enable
 the generation of students trained in these networks to develop the impact of their academic
 work and attract research commissions e.g. project commissioned by the Swiss Federal Police
 (to ECR Davis and Woodhams).


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Relationships with education and third sector
 There are strong research links to local schools (Apperly, Beck and Devine) and charities
 (e.g., Cerebra, Autistica, Stroke Association) through funded projects and board membership:
 Oliver is Co-Chair of the Professional and Clinical Advisory Committee for the Smith-Magenis
 Foundation; Richards is Scientific Committee Member for Research Autism and on the Research
 Advisory Committee for Cerebra. We are also working with The National Society for the
 Prevention of Cruelty to Children to help the charity in its response to children who are at risk of
 suicide (Michail, Kloess) and in developing guidance on safe use of online gaming (Rogers).

 Relationships with business
 One of our faculty (DiLuca) was on secondment to Oculus/Facebook, and we recently
 obtained our first substantial grant from this source (Mazaheri & Shapiro 124k). Our objectives
 are to develop this as an opportunity for two-way knowledge transfer, as well as aiding the
 development of collaborative and commissioned research. We have had several BBSRC
 iCASE studentships including two with the Experimental Medicine Company P1vital (supervised
 by Higgs and P1vital CEO Dourish). The School (Wing) has partnered with the University of
 Nottingham and Procter and Gamble on a BBSRC grant on active touch. Several members of
 staff have provided consultancy for business e.g. Consultancy for Crane Currency Ltd (USA), a
 global banknote design company (Raymond); Consultancy for Compass Pathways (Higgs).
 Research on children’s food preferences has been funded by Danone Nutricia (Higgs) and Higgs
 is also a member of the Danone International Institute. Work on early diagnosis using eye
 tracking is funded by Actelion Pharmaceuticals (Olson). Cruse advised the World Bank on how
 to collect data on social development in school-aged children in Pakistan. Upthegrove has
 served on advisory boards with GSK, Autifony, and Janssen. Bowman is a consultant for
 Visionmetric and Spectamedical on using EEG for face recognition testing. Woodcock has a
 collaboration with industry partner Studio 14 in the development of graphics to support
 technology developed for the Open-Door project.


 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 Our expertise is highly sought after in the role of advisors for stakeholders and training. We
 organise workshops that enable practitioners, policymakers and patients to learn about our work
 and provide feedback that shapes further research. We prepare educational materials for
 charities, patients and the public at large. Examples beyond our impact case studies include:
 Colloff who conducted a knowledge exchange event with West Midlands Police officers on
 eyewitness memory; Debrito and Kloess provided academic consultancy for theatre-in-education
 company Round Midnight to develop educational virtual reality interventions to address risk
 taking in young people; Kloess works with the Loudmouth theatre-in-education company to
 examine the impact of a Child Sexual Exploitation intervention programme on children. Rogers
 was an academic Consultant for a documentary on Violence and Psychopathy (2019). Bowman
 and Kloess sit on an academic support group to West Midlands Police, Technological
 Intelligence Unit that is chaired by Woodhams. Woodhams also sits on the research ethics board
 for the Metropolitan Police. Mevorach provides training for teachers on attention training in
 autism as part of an impact acceleration project - ESRC-IAA and has partnered with the Rookery
 School in the Teacher Training and Attention in Autism Erasmus+ strategic partnership project.
 The Cerebra centre produces guides for parents of children with developmental disorders
 including “Sleep: A guide for parents” that has been disseminated alongside easy-to-read cards
 that have been commended by the British Medical Association. Woodcock presents regularly at
 conferences for family members of individuals with developmental disorders organised by
 support groups in Europe and North America.

 Engagement with diverse communities and publics

 The school actively encourages researchers to be involved in public engagement, across a wide
 range of media and to undertake media training. Our staff have featured on BBC radio and
 TV, ITV, Channel 4, (e.g. Woodhams featured in an ITN film and advises on story lines for TV

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes; BBC World Service covered research by Debrito on conduct disorder in children; a
 press release for a paper on how right-or left-handedness affects sign language by Thompson
 was picked up by over 30 news sites).

 Our work has featured prominently in international popular science journalism and we write
 pieces for sites such as the Conversation (e.g. article on weight stigma by PhD student
 Meadows, an article on the tip of the tongue phenomenon by Segaert, an article on rape in
 Kenya by Flowe and an article on brain patterns of consciousness by Fernandez-Espejo that got
 >85K reads in the first 3 weeks after publication). The established Birmingham Heroes [REF5a
 4.1] campaign featured Broome and Upthegrove to promote research on youth mental health.
 Flowe, Higgs and Woodhams have written articles for the Birmingham Brief (short pieces on
 policy issues) and Burnett-Heyes, Michail, and Reniers have written pieces for the Birmingham
 Perspective. Galea and Higgs have contributed to the “water cooler neuroscience” podcast and
 Broome and Upthegrove write for the Mental Elf blog.

 Our staff participate in and have organised public science festivals, including the British
 Science Festival, ESRC Festival of Social Science and Big Bang festivals, and Café
 Scientifique. One of our research staff initiated The Pint of Science Birmingham and this public
 event continues to be driven by our research fellows. In 2018, the Eating Behaviour research
 group held a sold-out event as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science and the applied
 memory lab hosted an event on memory and the legal system. A meet the 'brain experts' event
 has run for the last few years as part of Brain Awareness Week.

 We have established long-term commitments to public engagement by staff, and by new
 generations of researchers. The School organises regular events at Thinktank (Birmingham
 science museum), where staff and PhD students present displays and demonstrations on a
 research topic to a large public audience. For example, in 2018 the Centre for Applied
 Psychology ran an exhibit on eyewitness memory that won a public engagement award.
 Members also work closely with Thinktank to run studies with children and to advance the
 understanding of children’s learning about science through their interactions in the museum (e.g.
 collaborative PhD studentship with Thinktank supervised by Beck). We have also collaborated
 with the Barber Institute of Fine Arts [REF5a 4.3] on public events including a lecture on
 “Dividing Lines: A Brain Science view on Landscape” by Raymond and contributed a lecture on
 sleep as part of a University TEDx day (Bagshaw). Members of the IMH took part in “Where’s
 my story’, an event hosted by the Shakespeare Institute at the Royal Shakespeare Company
 [REF5a 2.1.7] in 2019 that explored the potential effects of representation in theatre on young
 people’s sense of identity.

 The CHBH has an Annual Public Engagement Prize and a public engagement blog. We run
 tailored training in public engagement at School level and host “Public Engagement Hours”,
 which are monthly meetings open to all. We regularly accept sixth former Nuffield Research
 Placement bursary holders and provide lecture “masterclasses” for schoolchildren on campus
 (e.g. on Why We Eat What We Eat).

 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline /responses to national and international
 priorities and initiatives/ best practice in undertaking research that is reproducible

 The School is a major national contributor to professional training in clinical and forensic
 psychology. Over 100 students graduate each year including doctoral-level graduates from the
 ClinPsyD and ForenPsyD, masters and diploma students and those pursuing continuing
 professional development. The courses in clinical psychology were highlighted as examples of
 good practice in a British Psychological Society (BPS) report in 2017.

 Our research centres provide the critical mass and interdisciplinarity to enable us to respond to
 funding priorities and initiatives. Exemplars of interdisciplinary research tackling global
 challenges include: 1) The University of Birmingham Institute for Global Innovation [REF5a 2.3]
 Award for Challenge Theme of 21st Century Crime employs a range of interdisciplinary

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approaches to help understand how technologies present new challenges to both developed
 economies and Low- and Middle-Income Countries. The project (led by Woodhams) involves
 researchers from Economics, Law, Psychology and Nursing alongside partners including the
 National Crime Agency and the Wangu Kanja Foundation (WKF); 2) an interdisciplinary group
 led by Upthegrove comprises experts in psychosis, immuno-psychiatry, epidemiology,
 neuroscience, bioinformatics, genomics, and pharmacology and the company Celentyx Ltd,
 which focuses on the causes of mental health problems. The Psychosis and Immune
 Mechanism Stratified Medicine Study (PIMS) is investigating how immune dysfunction could
 cause psychosis and aims to develop new stratified medicine treatments for psychosis patients
 with active inflammation; 3) The optically pumped magnetometer (OPM) laboratory is a
 collaboration between the CHBH (Jensen) and the School of Physics and Astronomy (Bongs) as
 well as the Universities of Nottingham and Strathclyde and the Greater Birmingham and Solihull
 Local Enterprise Partnership to develop new sensors to be used for magnetoencephalography
 (MEG). The ambition of this project is to go beyond the limitations of current techniques for
 understanding brain health by developing a new technology that combines Transcranial
 Magnetic Stimulation with OPMs.

 As mentioned in Section 1, we are leading on open science practices and this includes
 disseminating best practice on conducting research that is reproduceable via our research
 workshops. UoA staff have published pre-registered, replication studies e.g. Meijer et al. (2019).
 Cortex, 119, 74-88 and Jones et al. (2019). Nature Human Behaviour. In addition, a group of
 our postgraduates is part of ReproducibiliTea, the international grassroots open science journal
 club. They prepared material on reproducibility, which is now used in our UG tutorial programme.

 Contributions to and recognition by the research base

 We are widely engaged in the peer review process for publication and funding. Such work is a
 critical contribution to the discipline, but also brings valuable expertise to the School.

 Journal editorship
 Higgs is Editor in Chief of Appetite and Oliver was Editor in Chief for Journal of Intellectual
 Disability Research from 2013-2018. Members of the school hold action/executive/ editor
 positions including for top tier journals such as: British Journal of Psychiatry; Neuropsychologia;
 European Journal of Neuroscience; Cortex; Early Intervention in Psychiatry, Mind & Language.
 Others hold positions as Journal consulting editors including for top tier journals such as:
 Cognition, PLOS ONE, Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics, Journal of Experimental
 Psychology, Journal Child Development and Wellcome Translational Development Frontiers in
 Psychiatry, eNeuro, Scientific Reports, PLoS Biology, eLife, Clinical Neurophysiology. Naturally,
 all members of staff are involved in ad hoc peer review for journals across the entire range of our
 activity.

 Membership of grant committees
 Members of the school have chaired grant panels (Oliver: Chair of Autistica Scientific Advisory
 Committee and Cornelia de Lange Syndrome World Scientific and Clinical Advisory Committee),
 sat on grant panels (BBSRC, Lee; Shapiro); EPSRC (Schofield), ESRC (Apperly; Beck); MRC
 (Miall; Galea); Wellcome (Miall; Bagshaw, Galea, Wilding), ERC Marie Curie Fellowship Panel
 (Galea; Wimber) and have contributed to peer review colleges (for BBSRC; Epilepsy
 Research, UK; ESRC; ESRC Doctoral Training Peer Review College; EPSRC; MRC; Wellcome
 Trust; Royal Society Newton Fellowship Committee) and the BBSRC People and Talent
 Strategy Advisory Panel (Wilding) Wellcome Strategic Funding Panel (Broome); NIHR Research
 for Patient Benefit Panel (Marwaha).

 In addition to ad hoc reviews for national funding bodies, members of the school contribute to
 international grant review, including German Research Foundation (DFG); Australian
 Research Council; FNRS (Belgium); NIH and National Science Foundation (USA); NSERC and
 Canadian Institute for Health Research (Canada); Netherlands organisation for Health Research
 and Development; ANR, France, European Research Council; Italian Ministry for Education.

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Invited keynotes
 Recognition of our profile and influence is reflected in staff giving invited keynote or plenary
 presentations at International events including: Eurosense (Higgs), 39th Minnesota Symposium
 on Child Psychology: 2015 (Apperly), 2nd International Conference on Sign Language
 Acquisition Amsterdam (Thompson), Royal Society Workshop, South Africa (Debrito),
 Conference on Executive Function in Childhood, Germany 2016 (Devine), International
 Conference on Educational Neuroscience, Abu Dhabi 2019 (Cook), British Association for
 Cognitive Neuroscience, 2018 (Galea), International Update Neuro-Anaesthesia and Neuro-
 Intensive Care Meeting. Spain, 2016 (Fernandez-Espejo), Currency Conference, Kuala Lumpur,
 2017 (Raymond) The Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, 2017 (Bagshaw) Foundation for
 Prader-Willi Research US, 2018 (Woodcock), Space-Time Geometries and Movement in the
 Brain and Arts, Paris, 2018 (Miall), and the Australian Society for Autism Research Annual
 Conference 2018 (Oliver), Society for Social Neuroscience Annual Conference (Apps).

 Prizes
 The research and impact of several senior and junior members of staff have been recognised by
 the award of prestigious prizes e.g. Jensen and Hanslmayr received Royal Society Wolfson
 Research Merit Awards, and Jensen a Wellcome Trust Investigator Award in Science.
 Woodhams was Awarded A Real Impact Award 2019 for research with Real World Positive
 Change. In 2018 the Mid-career award of the British Association for Cognitive Neuroscience
 went to Miall, and the Early-career award to Galea. Wood received the Society for Mental Health
 Research Oration award in 2017. Upthegrove and Broome are elected Fellows of the Royal
 College of Psychiatrists. Higgs was awarded the Hoebel research prize from the Society for the
 Study of Ingestive Behavior. Hickey and Lockwood were awarded the APS Rising Star Award in
 2015 and 2019 respectively. The 2016 Young Investigator Award from the International
 Conference on Biomagnetism was awarded to Park. Apps was the recipient of the of the Society
 for Social Neuroscience Early Career Award in 2018 and the British Association for Cognitive
 Neuroscience Early Career Award in 2020. The 2016 Junior Award in Forensic Psychology went
 to Kloess and she received the Early Career Researcher Prize from the British Psychological
 Society. Woodcock was recognised for outstanding contributions to research into Prader-Willi
 syndrome. Both Cook and Colloff were awarded prizes for outstanding doctoral work (the Frith
 Prize and International Thesis Award from the American-Psychology Law Society respectively)

 Service to learned societies.
 We are highly involved in external academic service, illustrated by the following select examples:
 President of the Society for the Study of Ingestive Behavior (Higgs); Board member, Neural
 Control of Movement Society (Miall 2014-16; Galea 2019-22); Chair, International Association
 for Attention & Performance (Raymond); Secretary, Autism Spectrum Disorder Special Interest
 Group, International Association for the Scientific Study of Intellectual Disability (Richards); BPS
 Memory Evidence committee (Flowe). Treasurer of the European Society for Philosophy and
 Psychology 2011-16 (Apperly); International Officer for the Sign Language Linguistics Society
 (Thompson); Elected Council Member British Association for Psychopharmacology
 (Upthegrove); Board member and vice president IEPA Early Intervention in Mental Health 2014-
 18 (Wood) and executive committee member of the International Association for Youth Mental
 Health (Broome). Marwaha is Co-Chair of the International Society for Bipolar Disorder Task
 Force on Early Intervention in Bipolar Disorder and Lockwood is elected board member for the
 Society for Neuroeconomics.

 Conference and workshop organisation
 We are host for the Biomag conference 2021 (postponed from 2020 due to the Covid-19
 pandemic), which is the foremost international conference for researchers working on
 biomagnetism. The School hosts Annual “ERP bootcamps” in advanced ERP/EEG recording.
 Bagshaw was host organiser for the Multimodal Connectivity Workshop in 2015. The first Single
 Units and Human iEEG (SUsHi) Meeting was due to take place in 2020 but had to be
 cancelled due to the pandemic. Other staff have served on organising committees e.g. for the
 20th annual meeting of the Association for the Scientific Study of Consciousness, Argentina
 (Cruse), for Biological Psychiatry Australia, 2019 (Wood) and for the Society for the Study of

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Behavioural Phenotypes, 2019 (Woodcock), Society for the Scientific Study of Psychopathy
 2021 conference - Programme Co-Chair (Debrito), Programme committee member for the 2017
 conference of the Cognitive Science Society (Apperly) and Co-organiser Society for the Biology
 of Decision Making, Oxford, 2019 (Lockwood).

 Summary

 We have capitalised on significant institutional support to create an inclusive research
 environment that is supporting the delivery of world-leading research with impact by nurturing
 talent and facilitating collaborative, interdisciplinary ways of working. We have attracted and
 retained outstanding researchers from early career to professorial levels, many of whom have
 been honoured for their achievements and leadership in their field and who are strongly
 influencing disciplinary developments. We are proud of our extensive contributions to the
 research base, economy, and society. Our strategy and vision will ensure that we will continue to
 be at the forefront of innovative, interdisciplinary, and translational research that will address
 global challenges.




                                                                                           Page 19
