Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution:                          University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment:                   23–Education


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


The approach that the Faculty of Education at the University of Cambridge takes to research starts
from the principle that education itself is inseparable from the biggest challenges facing society. It
is impossible to address questions such as climate change, inequalities, mental health and
wellbeing, or the future of democracy, without recognising that education policy and practice are
fundamental to the solution.

The Faculty’s research is structured not only to enable improvements within education itself, but to
achieve a far wider range of associated impacts that emerge from the unlocking of potential and
the enablement of new opportunities and of happier, healthier lives.

As one of the world-leading departments of education, the Faculty’s research aims to generate
results both within the UK and internationally. Research during the review period has, for example,
both supported communities in specific low income areas in the UK and led to transformational
programmes in low-income countries. Researchers are encouraged to work in partnership and
collaborate across sectors, disciplines, and geographical, political and cultural boundaries.

Unit Context and Structure
The Faculty comprises 47 academic staff, 53 research staff, and 119 teaching and other support
staff. It has also grown substantially during the review period; research income having increased
from £5.5m in the previous REF period to £23.7m during the period for REF2021.

The Faculty has organised the large and diverse portfolio of research prominent in our previous
REF submission into eight overlapping Research Groups. These also incorporate three, higher-
profile Research Centres, which have considerable external visibility and can facilitate larger-scale
projects, more effective dissemination, and wider impact.

These groups provide researchers with an opportunity to work with others with similar substantive
interests and to develop and realise joint research ambitions. The scope and activity of these
groups is reviewed annually. Each group directs a number of research programmes towards the
delivery of clear-sighted evidence, information, guidance and recommendations for policy-makers
and practitioners. Groups include all research staff and postgraduate research students; staff may
belong to more than one.

The academic groups and their foci are described briefly below (in alphabetical order).

1. Arts & Creativities (lead: Professor Pam Burnard). Arts and Creativities is a broad and
   interdisciplinary research community. It is focused on what uniquely constitutes the role of the
   arts and their different forms of engagement within education, society, work and the natural
   world.

2. Centre for Research in Children’s Literature at Cambridge (lead: Professor Karen Coats).
   This centre was jointly established by the Faculty of Education and Homerton College in 2009,
                                                                                                     1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   to consolidate their long tradition of research into children’s literature. The centre includes a
   diverse group of researchers, scholars and practitioners focused on literary analysis and the role
   of children’s literature in teaching and learning.

3. Cambridge Educational Dialogue Research Group (CEDiR) (leads: Dr Sara Hennessy and
   Professor Rupert Wegerif). The Faculty has a rich history of world-leading research on
   educational dialogue and this group is extending this interdisciplinary research across a range
   of diverse contexts to achieve impact on theory, policy and practice.

4. Knowledge, Power & Politics (KPP) (lead: Professor Susan Robertson). Research in KPP
   is focused on the politics of knowledge; place, social conflict and social exclusion; social
   inequalities and social justice; transformations of the state, education policy and market making;
   and big data, infrastructures and new modes of governing.

5. Psychology, Education & Learning Studies (PELS) (lead: Dr Michelle Ellefson). Research
   covers four areas: Students’ learning, thinking and development; Teachers’ teaching and
   professional learning; social, emotional and relational aspects of learning and development; and
   Play in education. PELS is the academic home for the PEDAL Centre (Play in Education,
   Development and Learning), a new centre funded primarily by The Lego Foundation and led
   by Professor Ramchandani.

6. Research for Equitable Access and Learning Centre (REAL) (lead: Professor Pauline
   Rose). The REAL Centre is focused on the role of education in international development. REAL
   has undertaken pioneering research into overcoming barriers to education, such as poverty,
   gender, ethnicity, language and disability. Projects involve collaborations with partners in the
   Global South, and adopt interdisciplinary, mixed methods research with research teams that
   include economists, sociologists and psychologists.

7. Second Language Education (SLE) (lead: Dr Linda Fisher). SLE specialises in researching
   a range of theoretical, empirical, policy and practice-related topics on multilingualism and
   education. The group adopts an interdisciplinary focus on language learning, drawing on
   perspectives from the social sciences and applied linguistics.

8. Science Technology and Maths Education (STEM) (lead: Professor Andreas Stylianides).
   The STEM group provides a critical evidence base and research-informed guidance that will
   maximise the impact of teaching and learning in these subjects, as well as contributing to
   theoretical advances in the fields of science, technology and mathematics education.

Notable recent developments have focused on three priorities highlighted in the Faculty Research
Strategy: (a) education and international development, (b) psychology of education and (c) policy-
focused research. In alignment with this strategy, two of the Research Centres were established
during the review period: The Research for Equitable Access and Learning (REAL) Centre and the
Centre for Play in Education, Development and Learning (PEDAL). Both these centres have
received substantial external funding. They join the longer-established Centre for Research in
Children’s Literature at Cambridge.



                                                                                                   2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Faculty has a Research Committee which reports to the Faculty Board. The Research
Committee is chaired by the Director of Research (Ramchandani) who also serves on the Senior
Leadership Team of the Faculty. He is supported by two Deputy Directors (Ellefson and Sabates),
which also facilitates succession planning. The Committee exercises strategic leadership of
research activity and development across the Faculty. All professors and readers in the Faculty
belong to the Research Committee, which also has representation from other staff groups and
students.

Research Objectives
The Faculty has built on its success in the 2014 REF, expanding its research activity and investing
in our areas of particular strength. This has enabled us to recruit and retain world-class academics
and to develop our international research profile still further. The overarching aim of its research
strategy continues to be to address the key research challenges of the discipline of education and
to impact policy and practice, both in the UK and internationally. Additionally, over the 2013-2021
period, the Faculty prioritised the following three research areas; education and international
development, psychology of education, and policy focused research. The success of this strategy is
illustrated by selected highlights below:

Education and international development

   •   We established a new Chair (Rose), funded from Faculty reserves, and launched the REAL
       Centre. REAL has grown rapidly and now has new posts in the area of international
       development (Sabates, Grujter) and two additional Chairs via promotion (Singal, Sabates).

   •   REAL has led 15 research projects in eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.
       It has undertaken ground-breaking research on the importance of high-quality early years
       and primary provision in low income countries, which has led to a shift in policy and funding
       priorities by the UK Department for International Development (see CS-23-681).

Psychology of education

   •   We expanded our psychology of education research portfolio, with a new Lego Foundation
       endowed Chair to lead PEDAL (Ramchandani) and new appointments (Gibson, Wegerif,
       Harold).

   •   Our new PEDAL centre has established itself as an authoritative voice on the importance of
       play in children’s development and policy, and has recently had a renewal of its funding for
       a further five-year period (£3.1M; 2018-23).

   •   Researchers from PELS (Ilie, Vermunt and Vignoles) secured funding for a large HEFCE
       Learning Gain project that has led to high-quality publications on widening participation in
       higher education and learning gain which have influenced higher education policy in the UK
       (see CS-23-683).

Policy focused research

   •   We have boosted our policy-focused research, particularly research into inequalities in
       education access and achievement, and higher education. Specifically, new appointments

                                                                                                  3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       with a strong policy focus have been made across a number of research groups (Grutjers,
       Hartmann, Hoffman, Ilie, Maber, Sabates, Robertson and Rose).

We have also continued to build on areas of existing strength identified in the last REF:

   •   The establishment of our KPP group has consolidated our expertise in the sociology of
       education, with four new appointments from that disciplinary background (Robertson,
       Sriprakesh (recently promoted to a Chair at the University of Bristol), Hartmann, Grujiters).

   •   We have continued to develop our research excellence in arts, language and culture with the
       recruitment of a new Professor of Children’s Literature (Coats) and key promotions to Chairs
       (Burnard, Hickman).

   •   In the 2014 REF, the Faculty also noted its commitment to growing its quantitative methods
       capacity, with the appointment of a Chair (Vignoles). This area has grown significantly both
       in terms of the number of researchers who are using quantitative methods (Baker, Gibson,
       Grujter, Ellefson, Harold, Ilie, Ramchandani, Rose, Sabates, Vignoles) and in terms of the
       number of research students who are trained to an advanced level. Vignoles has been
       appointed as Director of the Leverhulme Trust commencing 2021 and will be replaced by a
       Chair with strong quantitative expertise.

We also continue to prioritise research into pedagogy and classroom practice:

   •   The Faculty has invested in our work on dialogic teaching, with the recruitment of Wegerif to
       replace Mercer (following retirement). CEDiR has secured a large (€4.4m) pan-European
       project (DIALLS), focussed on the use of dialogic approaches in different cultures (led by
       Maine), and have published a landmark contribution to the field (The Routledge International
       Handbook of Research on Dialogic Education, Mercer, Wegerif & Major, 2019). It features
       92 contributors across six continents, including 15 Faculty members. This handbook marks
       the coming of age of dialogic education as a distinctive area of applied educational research
       and places the Faculty in a leading role.

   •   The Faculty helped establish the University of Cambridge Primary School (UCPS) in 2015
       based on many of the principles outlined in earlier Faculty research, namely The Cambridge
       Primary Review (Alexander, 2010). Faculty researchers have a collaborative relationship with
       the UCPS which has ensured a research informed curriculum and creative pedagogies. The
       UCPS has also been a seed-bed for further research (see CS-23-682).

   •   Our Arts and Creativities group has been working with the British Education Research
       Association reviewing the potential and the challenges of developing STEAM (Science,
       Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) education through creative pedagogies
       (BERA Research Commission Report).

   •   Our SLE group has been awarded an AHRC large grant (£3.2m) for its Multilingualism
       Empowering Individuals, Empowering Society (MEITS) project. This investigates multilingual
       identity and language learning and involves international collaborators and language
       practitioners in schools.


                                                                                                  4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   The STEM group, along with the Faculty of Mathematics, Cambridge Assessment and
       Cambridge University Press, hosts The Cambridge Mathematics project which is creating a
       curriculum framework for a world-class mathematics education for all students aged five to
       nine years old.

The success we have had reflects our emphasis on:

   •   supporting Faculty members to undertake internationally leading research that underpins our
       teaching;
   •   encouraging interdisciplinary national and international collaborations;
   •   undertaking research that has a tangible impact on policy and practice;
   •   sustaining a broad portfolio of high prestige research grants and donations to support our
       research.

Looking forward to 2026, our recent grant and philanthropic donation success gives us confidence
that we can sustain our research groups, even in the face of a constrained financial environment.
We also intend to increase our policy and practice focused research still further, particularly in the
area of higher education. There continues to be considerable national policy emphasis on, and
funding for, widening participation activities and Faculty members are well placed to undertake
research in this area. We have plans in place for a wider university collaboration with the newly
established Cambridge Centre for Teaching and Learning. This centre focuses on, among other
activities, implementing programmes to support non-traditional students at Cambridge and the
Faculty will support both the development of such programmes and their evaluation.



Enabling Impact
Achieving impact on policy and practice is a long-standing core aim for the Faculty (as evidenced by
our strong 4* impact case studies in the last REF) and a vitally important aspect of our research
environment. An Impact Director has been appointed (Vignoles) and the Faculty recognises that
planning for impact needs to be reflected in the research design and methodology used in our
projects. The Faculty actively encourages and mentors researchers to consider impact at an early
stage. Internal funding and training is provided to support dissemination and impact activity.
Workshops have been held annually to develop researcher skills in dissemination and impact, and
the appointment of a communication specialist has been key to raising the profile of our research.

Researchers have also made good use of external funding opportunities to achieve impact, with the
award of 19 grants since 2013 from the ESRC Impact Acceleration Fund and, internally, success
with the Vice-Chancellor’s Impact Awards, e.g. Nicholl’s project Designing Our Tomorrow, described
below.

A major investment by the Faculty is its Education Reform and Innovation Team (ERI) which
specialises in research-informed systemic education reform. ERI is involved in international projects
of development, research, monitoring and evaluation. This ensures that the Faculty’s research has
a clear route into practice and policy. ERI undertakes an extensive range of professional
development activities with schools and school leaders nationally and globally. It has received




                                                                                                    5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
significant pump priming funding from the Faculty (see section 3), enabling it to develop rapidly and
achieve impact at scale (see CS-23-680).

We also have several important teacher and school leader networks, such as the Leadership for
Learning Network (1981 members in over 100 countries) and the SUPER network (15 schools across
the region). These are long-standing networks that have provided clear routes for the research of
the Faculty to reach school practitioners.

Interdisciplinary Research
The Faculty maintains a strong commitment to interdisciplinary research. The research challenges
facing Education are inherently interdisciplinary, ranging from the need to address the rising
prevalence of poor mental health among children and young people, through to reducing the large
inequalities we see globally in children’s educational access and outcomes.

A large number of Faculty researchers are members of, or play leadership roles in, University
Strategic Research Initiatives (SRIs), Networks and Interdisciplinary Research Centres (IRCs).
These are formal structures designed to increase interdisciplinary working and supported with
internal funds from the University.

   •   Rose is co-Chair of the Global Challenges Strategic Research Initiative which undertakes
       research addressing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and with a focus on the
       poorest half of the world’s population.

   •   Vignoles is co-Chair of the Centre for Data Driven Discovery (C2D3) and seven Faculty
       researchers are members (Baker, Burnard, Ellefson, Gibson, Ilie, Liu, Rose). C2D3 is an
       interdisciplinary research centre that brings together experts with technical, mathematical
       and topic knowledge to work on tackling the challenges of big data.

   •   Jaques and Nikolajeva are members of the Cambridge Digital Humanities network.

   •   Rose and Vignoles are on the Steering Committee of The Cambridge Public Health Network,
       and Gibson and Ramchandani are also members.

   •   Robertson and Liu are on the Steering Committee of the Centre for Global Human Movement,
       while Maber is a member.

   •   Rose is a member of the Cambridge-Africa steering group and a number of Faculty of
       Education researchers (Hayward, Rose, Sabates, Singal, Winterbottom) have secured
       research funds as part of this initiative.

The Faculty has provided additional in-house support to encourage interdisciplinary working. This
includes an internal competitive funding stream to support the development of cross disciplinary




                                                                                                   6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ideas and grant proposals. The success of this is illustrated by the number of large interdisciplinary
projects that are led by Faculty researchers. These include:

   •   The EU-funded (Euro 4.4m) [PI: Maine] 2020-23 programme on dialogue and argumentation
       (DIALLS) mentioned earlier;
   •   The AHRC Open World Research Initiative (£482k) [PI: Fisher] on Multilingualism:
       Empowering Individuals, Transforming Societies (MEITS), also mentioned earlier;
   •   An ESRC Transformative Research Grant (£200k) [PI: Gibson] with researchers from
       computer science, psychology and landscape architecture, investigating children’s play and
       social interaction in schools (Hopscotch);
   •   An NIHR-funded Randomised Control Trial (£472k) [PI: Ramchandani] with Imperial College,
       Kings College, Oxford, Warwick, Amsterdam (VUA) Universities, on children’s early socio-
       emotional development (Healthy Start, Happy Start);
   •   A Singapore National Research Foundation project (SGD 5.5m) [PI: Ellefson] joint with the
       Departments of Neuroscience and Psychology. The project emerged from engagement with
       the Cambridge Centre for Data Driven Discovery (C2D3) and the Public Health network.

Open Research and Data Sharing
We have an active programme of staff training in open research practices (including data
management, sharing, copyright). This is a rolling programme specifically tailored to Faculty needs,
with two recent training events held in Spring 2019 (training in 2020 was cancelled, another course
is planned for 2021 and will be open to PhD students). We have invited external experts in open
science to lead seminars (e.g. Chris Chambers, April 2019). The Faculty is represented on the
University’s Open Research Steering Committee and engages in strategic University-wide planning
and regular awareness-raising sessions. Evidence of our progress towards an open research
environment is that 93% of our recent (2019/20) research outputs are open access (and the rate is
increasing).


Ethical Research and Research Integrity
We have established systems in place for ethical review of all research projects undertaken by
Faculty staff and students, with approved documentation logged and saved centrally for ongoing
review. Student projects are reviewed by course ethics committees and projects led by staff are
reviewed by an independent member of staff. Where issues arise, further independent review is
sought and referred to a panel for final decision. The Faculty endorses the BERA ethical guidelines
which cover the major aspects of ethical practice in educational research. Where more appropriate,
projects may choose the alternative of seeking approval under the University’s scheme for
psychological research. The Faculty ethical approval procedures were recently updated (2019) to
comply with GDPR (and have been audited by Deloitte). This review was led by Taber and
Hennessy, who chaired the 2018 BERA Ethical Guidelines Review group. Research integrity is as
much about culture as process. In the Faculty we foster a collaborative culture, not least via our
research groups and centres, and issues relating to research ethics and behaviours are discussed
in various fora, including the Research Committee and in training for mentors and probation mentors.




                                                                                                    7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People



Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
There have been considerable staff changes since the last REF. We have made ten external senior
appointments over the period (Bullock, Coats, Hayward, Harold, McLaughlin, Ramchandani,
Robertson, Rose, Sabates, Wegerif). This reflects a high number of retirements of senior members
of the Faculty since 2013 (Arnot, Colclough, Gray, Gronn, Hargreaves, Howe, Mercer, Nikolajeva,
Reay, Ruthven), as well as two members of the senior leadership team leaving, one for a promotion
(Crawford to a Head of School position) and the other to return to their home country (Vermunt).
Replacement of these leading researchers has been strategic, recognising that the Faculty is in a
phase where even its Professors are at an earlier career stage than was the case for the last REF.
The Faculty has used the opportunity to build ‘critical mass’ in the research areas that we are
prioritising, rather than opting for one-for-one replacement in the topic area of the leaver. The net
reduction in senior staff has been offset by seven recent internal promotions to Chairs. Additionally,
there have been 11 promotions to Readerships. Given the highly competitive cross-university
promotion process at Cambridge, this is an exceptional number of promotions, and an indicator of
the quality of Faculty research.

The Faculty has also prioritised new appointments at Lecturer and Senior Lecturer level in our areas
of research strength. The Faculty recruits to Lectureships only candidates who have already gained
a doctorate in education or a cognate area (or can demonstrate equivalent accomplishment in
research). A mentor is appointed to support such colleagues over their probationary period, typically
set at five years. Over the period, 14 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers have been appointed from
outside the University. Twenty-two Lecturers and Senior Lecturers have been appointed internally.


Support for Early Career Researchers

Postdoctoral appointments at Research Associate level are used to staff fixed-term, externally-
funded research projects. The Faculty currently has 38 fixed-term research staff. The Faculty has
been successful in winning relatively long-term awards, providing Research Associates with good
opportunities for career development. This is evidenced by the excellent record of progression from
Research Associate into tenure-stream positions. Over the REF period, six research staff have been
promoted to Senior Research Associate positions within the Faculty (Ahmed, Fimyar, Fink, Ilie,
Major, Winter, Yakavets). Thirty-six have been appointed to permanent positions in universities,
including three in the Faculty (Forbes, Hoffman, Ilie). A number of our ECRs have also been awarded
competitive Research Fellowships. Basilio awarded an ESRC Future Research Leaders Fellowship;
Cornelissen, Garcia, Sama and Martini secured Marie Curie Fellowships; Ahmed and Kulz were
awarded Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships; Mirawdeli and Lee a ESRC New Investigator Grant;
Neale, Torres, Rao and Wilson were awarded ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowships.

The Faculty keeps provision for research staff under review in the light of the University’s
probationary arrangements and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
Faculty policy identifies a range of responsibilities to be discharged by the Faculty supervisor of each
                                                                                                       8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
member of research staff (normally the PI of their main project), including supporting career
development. Every supervisor is expected to undertake appropriate training. Research Associates,
with financial support from the Faculty, organise a very active group aimed at providing mutual
support. Their elected representatives participate fully in relevant Faculty committees, including the
Research Committee and the Faculty Board.

From the start of their employment, all new research staff are engaged in the research process with
a specific research induction to describe the process of finding funding, grant writing, open science
and how research outputs are managed. They are invited to join a research group (or more than
one), to ensure they are integrated into the Faculty community. Lecturer/Senior Lecturers are
allocated a probation mentor at Reader or Professor level, to provide support to develop their
research plans and achieve probation requirements. They access the programme of professional
development offered to all staff, which includes training in generic skills suitable for career
development both within and outside academia.

In 2015 the Faculty established three initiatives to enhance the level of support for research: a
research mentoring scheme, a regular research audit and an internal funding stream (the
Research Development Fund).

i) The role of the research mentor includes offering feedback on draft funding proposals,
publications or promotion cases. It involves supporting colleagues in developing their skills and
discussing suitable journals for submission, study leave plans, or avenues for impact. The mentoring
scheme is for all academics, including postdoctoral staff. Mentors are offered regular training and
sessions for sharing practice.

ii) There is an annual audit of publications and Faculty members’ publications are peer reviewed by
their colleagues and feedback is shared with authors and their mentors.

iii) The Research Development Fund provides a source of funding, particularly for those early in
their career or seeking to develop a new or interdisciplinary line of research. It can be used to pump
prime projects and provide resource to write a grant application and has been used with considerable
success. Bids are up to £10k. During the REF period, 17 awards have been made to 16 PIs, with a
total value of £112,621.

In 2018 the University undertook a formal strategic review of the Faculty’s research environment by
a panel of external experts. The review supported the Faculty’s strategy on staff development and
noted its success in increasing the number of research active faculty members with high quality
outputs. Other indicators of success are: the combination of mentoring and the research audit has
prompted individuals to adapt their publication plans, the uptake of the Research Development Fund
has been strong and led to successful grant applications, and there has been an unusually high
number of promotions at all staff levels. In addition, we have a structured process for grant
submissions, including peer review, which has improved success (the current success rate is at 48%
and averaged 43% over the REF period).

All staff (including Research Associates) are awarded a statutory £600 per year Personal
Development Allowance and are eligible for leave to attend relevant conferences and training. Staff
are also given access to a conference travel fund of up to £1,000 per year. Additionally, academic
staff with research and teaching responsibilities benefit from a generous sabbatical leave policy


                                                                                                    9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
allowing up to one term in seven for scholarship. Many staff have used this to significantly advance
their research to publication, to forge international collaborations and to work on impact.


Facilitating Knowledge Exchange and Impact

We encourage staff to undertake secondments. Secondments, particularly into government
departments, have proved an effective way of undertaking knowledge exchange and achieving
impact. Rose was seconded to the UK Department for International Development (2015-18) to
advise on priorities for large-scale investments. This was a critical element in supporting the impact
case study we are submitting from the REAL Centre. Vignoles was seconded to the Economic and
Social Research Council (2018-20), tasked with advising them on their data investments to ensure
that UK social science has the necessary tools to remain world leading.

Our ERI team provide opportunities for researchers to become involved in international knowledge
exchange. Since ERI was established in 2012, 13 Faculty researchers have been involved in ERI
projects in five countries.

The Faculty facilitates consultancy that leads to knowledge exchange, including encouraging staff
to use the support offered by Cambridge Enterprise. Cambridge Enterprise is part of the University
of Cambridge and supports academics, researchers, staff and students in achieving knowledge
transfer and research impact. For example, Hennessy worked with DfID in 2018, advising on the use
of education technology in low income countries. Members of REAL (Ilie, Rose, Sabates and Singal)
provide consultancy to a range of organisations, including DFID, FCO, the Norwegian Agency for
Development Cooperation (NORAD), Save the Children, The World Bank, UNESCO and UNICEF.
REAL colleagues have also been involved in the Education Commission, led by former PM Gordon
Brown, and the FCO Platform for Girls Education. Singal has worked on disability issues with the
World Bank. Sabates has worked on adult learning with UNESCO. Robertson has been an advisor
to Education International on their global research strategy on the privatization of education. Nicholl
has provided advice to government as a member of the Design and Technology Working Group on
reforms of both GCSEs and A levels in 2015. Many of these consultancies have included our PhD
students, providing them with opportunities to develop their knowledge and skills.

Our school networks and the University of Cambridge Primary School (UCPS) provide opportunities
for researchers to undertake knowledge exchange. Three Faculty researchers are members of the
UCPS governing body, including the Head of Faculty (Robertson) who is the chair. The school is a
testbed for many ongoing research projects and a reciprocal relationship is flourishing and its head
teacher (Biddulph) recently completed a PhD with the Faculty (see CS-23-682).

The Faculty provides funds to promote knowledge exchange. A number of policy and practice-
oriented conferences have been hosted. For example, the Faculty co-hosts the annual Yidan Prize
in Education to which influential practitioners and policy-makers are invited, providing an opportunity
to showcase our research. In 2019 two of our research centres (REAL/PEDAL) hosted a joint
conference to engage practitioners, policy-makers and academics in debates about early years
curricula in developing countries. In 2015 Jacques organised Wonderland Week, a national
celebration of the 150th anniversary of Lewis Carroll’s Alice. The Faculty makes regular contributions
to a range of external public focused events, such as the Hay Festival, and hosts the highly


                                                                                                    10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
successful Cambridge Festival of Education which provides an excellent opportunity to engage
directly with practitioners and parents, as well as with the general public.

We are mindful that providing the structures (e.g. ERI) and the funding for knowledge exchange
activity is not sufficient. Such activity takes time and work load can be an issue. In 2016, a new
teaching workload model was introduced, which results in a more equitable recognition of key
activity, including research, knowledge exchange and impact work.

Research Students
The Faculty has a thriving postgraduate student community. Over the REF period, 234 students
have graduated from the Faculty with a PhD in Education. Each year, we train more than 300 MPhil
and MEd students and over 300 PGCE students who become newly qualified teachers. Our students
come from a wide range of contexts and countries (35 countries in the last academic year).

Full-time students generally follow a standard 1 + 3 pattern through a one-year MPhil which provides
core research training and develops expertise in the area of the proposed thesis topic, followed by
the PhD itself which incorporates further specialised training. PhD candidates with an appropriate
Masters degree from another higher education institution are admitted on our +3 PhD route, though
their skills are audited. There is a part-time route to the PhD and the EdD on a 2 + 5 model.
Progression to the doctoral phase depends on strong performance in the earlier research-based
Masters phase. All doctoral students have one named supervisor and a separate advisor. There are
clearly staged assessment points during the PhD/EdD programmes, with a written assessment and
viva at the end of the first year (full time, or the part-time equivalent) and termly reviews thereafter.

Demand for our Masters and Doctoral training places is strong. In 2019/20 we had 834 applications
(675 MPhil and 159 MEd) at Masters level (and accepted 339 (243 MPhil and 96 MEd)) and 251
applications at doctoral level (and accepted 113).

Equality and diversity are a vital component of our recruitment efforts and are ensured in a number
of different ways. We recruit students from non-traditional backgrounds, for example we have a
strong intake of mature students and part-time students (around half our Masters students are part-
time). Decisions about studentships are made by a team. All staff participate in E&D training if they
undertake interviews.

Over the REF period, research students in the Faculty have been awarded 22 ESRC studentships,
and three benefited from externally funded research studentships of various kinds. A further 16
students secured internal research studentships (Cambridge Commonwealth and Overseas Trusts,
Gates Trust, and other University, Faculty and College sources). These have to be won in fierce
internal competition across all of the University: there are no quotas reserved for Faculty students.

Completion rates in the Faculty are excellent by sector standards: 71% over the REF period. The
quality of the best research is reflected in the awards garnered by students. These include BERA
dissertation awards in 2019 and 2020. 91 students have secured postdoctoral research positions
over the period. A number have already achieved lectureships directly following their PhD (at the
Universities of Bath, Edinburgh, South Florida and in three cases, our own Faculty).



                                                                                                      11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Students are encouraged to develop a high degree of research expertise and independent thinking
and practice from early in their studies. They are strongly encouraged to be contributing members
of the research groups, with opportunities for getting involved in projects, leading reading groups,
and organising seminars.

The formal programme of research training in the Faculty includes a core set of modules in research
methods needed by all students, as well as more advanced and specialist elective modules that are
taken according to need. For other specialised electives, particularly those drawing on other
disciplines, research training is offered by the School in the form of the Social Science Research
Methods Partnership (SSRMP).This training provision is currently led by the Faculty of Education,
ensuring we have a key role in shaping it. Whilst all our PhD students engage with others from
different disciplines, via Faculty events and in their colleges, students funded by the Cambridge
ESRC Doctoral Partnership and the Cambridge AHRC Doctoral Partnership have a schedule of
additional events. Fostering interdisciplinary conversations is a key aim of these DTPs.

The synergies between our research and teaching have been increased by aligning our teaching
offer with Faculty members’ research interests, although we still offer students considerable choice
in the topic of their research dissertation. Our undergraduate degree has been redeveloped to offer
routes that emphasise some of our research foci, namely international development, psychology of
education and arts and creativities. We now offer an MPhil in Education, Globalisation and
International Development, which has proved very successful in attracting students (from 70
applicants, 30 were enrolled in 2019/20) and a new MPhil in Knowledge, Power and Politics in
Education, which started in 2020 (38 applicants, 18 applicants enrolled).

We have reviewed our doctoral training to improve the offer, and to encourage greater opportunities
for students to publish their work (and co-publish with supervisors where appropriate). This aspect
of our provision is particularly attractive to our international students who benefit from the opportunity
to publish before competing on a globally competitive academic labour market, where US candidates
in particular have strong publications. The University offers a Graduate Development Programme
which provides training in planning and project management, presentation and communication,
publication and negotiation, and support for wider career development.

There is an active postgraduate student community in the Faculty, FERSA, which organises training,
social events and academic development opportunities, including a highly successful annual
conference, a blog and a peer review journal (Cambridge Research in Education Journal). The
Faculty also offers doctoral students personal financial support for conference presentation,
fieldwork expenses and equipment costs, as do Colleges. Students receive up to £400 each from
the Faculty, and for exceptional cases, up to £1,000.

Equality and Diversity
The Faculty has a strong commitment to fostering and promoting equality and diversity at all levels.
We have an Equality and Inclusion working group which includes broad representation from across
all staff. This group is leading on several initiatives including staff training and updating hiring
practices. In 2020, the Faculty decided to incorporate a formal standing committee, namely the
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, to ensure our structures and processes are more robust
and can hold the various committees, services and programmes in the Faculty to account.


                                                                                                       12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sixty-four percent of permanent staff are women. In addition, half of the professors, and nine out of
11 of the readers in the Faculty of Education are women, making up 65 percent of the Faculty’s
leadership profile. 20% percent of professors identify as BAME. Promotion figures also reflect this
balance, with 17/27 (63%) of promotions being female in the REF period and five (19%) BAME.

The UoA has taken a thoroughly inclusive approach to the construction of this submission. The UoA
has promoted the inclusion of all research-active staff, in line with the University’s Code of Practice
and in consultation with all potentially eligible staff. Additional support and mentoring has been
provided to staff who are on the cusp of research independence to enable them to make the
transition to independence. Mentoring has also been provided to those who are not currently
independent but who are likely to become so in the next REF period. Eligible research outputs were
all peer reviewed independently by multiple individuals, including by external experts who were
involved in the previous REF at the national level. The entire committee was involved in final
selection of outputs: data on review judgements was circulated in a transparent way to the REF
committee. The Committee has a Faculty staff member as an observer to provide a staff perspective
and to ensure that our REF processes and the submission are inclusive. Our impact case studies
involve staff at all levels, including lecturers and readers. Further, our impact case studies were peer
reviewed by external experts with national REF experience.

The University offers standard sabbatical, as well as shorter study leave and secondment options,
for staff who may have circumstances that require specific study-leave arrangements. Flexible and
part-time working arrangements are available; unpaid leave, and a range of other leave options are
also available to support staff in realising their research potential. Twenty staff have taken advantage
of these options over the period 2013-20.

Career pathways for part-time staff are the same as full-time staff and equal access to personal and
professional development courses for learning new skills and career advancement is offered to all
staff. Fixed-term staff are offered redeployment support at the end of their fixed term contracts
irrespective of hours worked.

Anyone with caring responsibilities or ill-health is supported as needed, for example by offering
flexible hours, mentoring or additional resource. The University offers a Returning Carers Scheme
offering up to £10K (and £20K in exceptional circumstances) to support individuals affected by
periods of leave due to caring responsibilities. This scheme provides specific financial support for
attendance at conferences, short-term research support, teaching buy-out, travel and
accommodation costs for research partners coming to Cambridge, secondments, career
development, support for assistance in grant writing, and funds for research equipment. The Faculty
encourages take-up by publicising and supporting the scheme.

The Faculty aims to provide a culture that supports staff wellbeing. However, sometimes the
challenging schedules and high standards expected of our students and staff can cause stress. The
University offers a comprehensive WellCAM wellbeing programme that includes sources of support,
and training sessions. The Faculty complements this by offering lunchtime and child-friendly
research seminars and meetings. The Faculty also has researchers who focus on well-being and
mental health in their research. This community has organised extra-curricular sessions led by
specialist colleagues, with two to three lunchtime seminars per term. In 2018/19, we had a theme
around relationships for example, including an external speaker (Professor Tamsin Ford). In
                                                                                               13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2019/20, we hosted another event with an external speaker (from the charity Place2Be).Around 60
staff are members of the group.




                                                                                            14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities



Funding Strategies
Strategic investment in, and development of, our research portfolio has resulted in considerable
success in terms of the ability of the Faculty to attract funding to support research and impact.

   •   Faculty research income has increased more than fourfold from £5.5m in the previous REF
       period to £23.7m during the period for REF2021.

   •   During the review period (2013-present) 170 grants have been awarded. These range widely
       in subject and include 46 grants of over £100k (including nine awards in excess of £500k).

   •   An increased proportion of Faculty members have leadership roles in externally funded
       research projects (35% are currently Principal Investigators or Co-Investigators on externally
       funded research grants).

Over the period we have sought to diversify our sources of funding. We now have a very wide range
of funders in our portfolio, including the UK Research Councils (AHRC, ESRC, NIHR), charitable
funders, international research councils, industry, the European Union and Government
departments.

   •   Grants in this period valued at over £250k are funded by 11 different sources.

   •   26% of our grant income over the 2013-20 period was from the research councils (ESRC,
       AHRC, MRC and the EU Horizon programme).

   •   12% of our grant income was provided by key foundations and charities, such as the
       Education Endowment Foundation and the Nuffield Foundation.

Our research strategy recognises the positive opportunities presented by large collaborative
projects: to build our reputation in key substantive areas, to involve more postdoctoral and PhD
researchers in our work, to secure sufficient resource to undertake more ambitious research and to
ensure critical mass to achieve impact. This concentration of effort has increased our international
and collaborative research portfolio. Twenty-eight percent of our grant income now comes from
these large, generally international, collaborative projects. For example, our largest collaborations
are a £20m EdTech Hub consortium and the €4.4m EU funded DIALLS project discussed earlier.
Since its inception, REAL has generated over £8m in research income.

The Educational Reform and Innovation (ERI) team, which undertakes the development work of the
Faculty, is an important vehicle through which we generate third-stream income. The ERI team have
developed a wide international portfolio worth £10.8m over the REF period.

The role of philanthropy in supporting our research is increasingly important. The generous
benefaction of the LEGO Foundation provided the funding for PEDAL. This has amounted to £3.1m
since PEDAL’s launch. Whilst PEDAL has also secured £840k to date in alternative funding,
including competitive grant awards, the LEGO investment has been vital to its success.
                                                                                            15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Organisational Structure
Changes in organisation structure since the last REF have been designed to increase collaborative
research, raise our international profile and increase our impact. The research groups have
facilitated more collaborative research as evidenced by our increase in grant income. The three high
profile research centres (PEDAL, REAL and The Centre for Research in Children’s Literature at
Cambridge) have also made our research in these areas more visible and helped us increase our
funding and impact.

The Faculty has a dedicated research office run by a highly experienced Research Administrator
(Carter) who provides support for the development and costing of proposals and input into the
training and development of research staff. He disseminates information about funding calls, trains
staff in grant writing and management, and supports grant applications. He is also responsible for
monitoring grant submissions and success rates and reporting these to the Director of Research and
the Faculty Research Committee.

Faculty level support is augmented by the infrastructure, legal, financial and project management
support provided by the University Research Office. Additionally, the Strategic Partnership Office
(SPO) facilitates links with business partners. For example, the SPO has helped secure funding from
Aviva for the Cambridge Centre for Data Driven Discovery (C2D3) led by Vignoles. The Cambridge
University Development and Alumni Relations office has helped the Faculty benefit from sponsorship
and donations (e.g. the Lego Foundation funded PEDAL centre, as well as funding from the
Mastercard Foundation, to name but two).

Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
There are four main areas of infrastructure that support research: our estate, libraries (the dedicated
Faculty library, the main University Library, the libraries of the Cambridge colleges), our information
technology team and our children’s laboratory.

The Donald McIntyre Building is a modern building built in 2005 which has 11 teaching rooms, two
meeting rooms, a Café, a Staff Social Area, Faculty Library, Finance Office, IT suites, IT Office, AV
Support Service Office, Student Administration and Research Administration Offices. A bespoke
conference space was refurbished in 2018, with a capacity of 220 delegates. The Mary Allan Building
has 20 teaching rooms, 36 academic, research and administration staff offices and an Auditorium.
Teaching rooms are used by Homerton College for conferences outside University terms.
Trumpington House has one seminar room.

In terms of facilities for academic staff, each academic has a dedicated desk and office space. Early
career researchers have a dedicated desk in a shared work environment. Research students (PhDs)
have a dedicated room, which consists of 26 workstations. This is over and above provision in the
library (see below) and their College.

The Faculty of Education has a dedicated library that provides a proactive, bespoke service to a
largely postgraduate community. Using high levels of subject-specific knowledge, the library team
support the varied teaching and research needs of the Faculty. The library team is led by two
Chartered Librarians (CILIP) and were nominated for the University’s Professional Services
Recognition Awards in 2018. In the same year they contributed to the Ofsted ‘Outstanding’ rating of
                                                                                                    16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the PGCE programme being recognised as a “team of highly professional, dedicated librarians” who
work “closely with subject lecturers to ensure that trainees have access to relevant and up-to-date
literature”. This is underscored by the ongoing research skills sessions which the library team tailors
to student needs. The physical library holds more than 58,000 items, including a historic Cambridge
Education Archive, a consultable collection of British Psychological Society tests, access to the
University Electronic Legal Deposit collection, and 100+ study spaces. The Education Library also
provide a 24/7 online library via the Faculty’s Virtual Learning Environment (Moodle) providing
research, citation and resources support. The library team has an ongoing commitment to outreach
and education, organising collaborations with local schools and providing reference access to any
member of the public with an interest in education. In addition, the main University Library and the
libraries of the colleges provide a comprehensive support service for our researchers, providing
access to an unparalleled range of materials.

To meet research needs, the Faculty’s IT and AV department provides a range of software and
hardware, supported by 3 FTE technicians. In addition to a set of standard software, a Virtual
Learning Environment, and on premise secure server space is provided. There are three suites of
dedicated workstations with Windows and Apple environments for all research students and staff
and a variety of software (SPSS, STATA, NVIVO, Wordsmith Tools etc.). Access to the University
high performance computing facilities is also available at no cost for those working with very big
datasets. Dedicated AV support (1 FTE) also supports researchers wishing to produce audio or
video. The University subscribes to secure UK based Cloud sharing provision provided by Microsoft
and offers the latest in security protocols for this service.

The Faculty has a dedicated Video Analysis lab and an Observation Lab G2, to enable staff and
researchers to carry out projects that require the study of child-child or child-adult interactions and
child development.

Infrastructure for Equality and Diversity
The Faculty reserves a proportion of its funds for expenditure in support of staff who need assistance
with accessibility in order to carry out their work. Recent examples include the provision of a range
of office equipment to various members of staff (particularly during COVID to support home working),
the adaption of office space, the installation of specialist software on computers, and funding to
employ specialist assistants for example to provide sign language. The Faculty HR Manager liaises
closely with the University Disability Support Service and the University Occupational Health Service.

Students and staff also benefit from a dedicated Disability Resource Centre, which offers advice and
support to students, and training for staff. A range of provision is clearly advertised, including access
to particular support groups (e.g. social support for students with Autistic Spectrum Conditions). The
code of practice with regards to what students can expect in terms of reasonable adjustments is
clearly displayed and advice available.

The University is also seeking to address E&D holistically, seeing clear links with well-being. This
approach is reflected in the type of support offered by both the E&D Office and the Occupational
Health Service, both of which are focused broadly on the promotion of health and wellbeing and
prevention of ill health at work, as well as providing other activities such as a network for staff with
disabilities and high profile awareness events for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities.

                                                                                                      17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Infrastructure and Impact Activities
The Faculty has invested substantial sums in its infrastructure to support impact activities. In
particular, the Faculty has used some of its reserves (approximately £700k) to support the
development of the ERI team.

In 2017 the Faculty recognised the need to communicate more effectively about its work. A full-time
communication specialist was appointed. As part of a strategic review of the Faculty’s
communications, a number of key changes have been instigated, including greater use of social
media channels, more high profile national and international events and finding ways to involve our
research students in our communications. The Faculty has also allocated £300k for the
redevelopment of its website and associated communication strategy.

Collaborative Use of Research Infrastructure
The Faculty hosts the Social Science Research Methods Partnership. A number of the modules and
courses available through SSRMP are accessible to researchers and students from other
institutions. Faculty members (Brown, Ilie, Gruijters, Sabates, Vignoles) contribute to this
programme, and their courses are open to researchers nationwide.

The child observation lab is available to researchers in other Faculties and has recently been used
for assessment for a longitudinal study led by colleagues in the School of Biological Sciences.

The Faculty funds infrastructure for its postgraduate community (FERSA, mentioned earlier) which
makes a national contribution. In addition to its blog which has a national following, it hosts an annual
two-day conference, Kaleidoscope, which is attended by students from across the country and offers
opportunities for research students to present their work. In 2019/20, the conference had 142
attendees, of which 86 were from outside Cambridge.

Significance of Benefits-in-Kind
As detailed above, the Faculty has benefited from the donation provided by the Lego Foundation to
establish the PEDAL centre. Over and above the financial benefits, the Lego Foundation have
provided significant benefits in kind. This includes the opportunity to benefit from their international
networks and opportunities for staff exchange. The Lego Foundation also provide support for
research students to attend their Lego Idea Conference which brings together researchers,
practitioners and policymakers from around the world.

Gibson’s ESRC funded Hopscotch project received £30k worth of play equipment from Community
Playthings, Touchwood and Children’s Scrapstore.




                                                                                                      18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society



Research Collaborations
The Faculty encourages research collaborations with leading researchers wherever they are located.
The success of our strategy is evident from the breadth and scale of our collaborations. These
include collaborative research projects with the Institute for Fiscal Studies, Early Intervention
Foundation, the University of Bristol, Kings, Oxford, Imperial College and UCL IOE. Recent
international collaborations include projects with researchers from Harvard University, University of
Hong Kong, and the Universities of Aarhus, Addis Ababa, Amsterdam, Iceland, Madrid, Malaga
Munich and Oslo, to name but a few. Evidence of the extent of our research collaborations is that
70% of our current grants with a Faculty Principal Investigator involve researchers from other
universities.

In addition, funding for individuals is available via the Research Development Fund discussed earlier.
Funding is also available for the research groups to host events to widen our academic reach and
build collaborations (£14k annually). Examples include the 13th Teaching and Language Corpora
Conference, the EARLI (European Association for Research on Learning and Instruction) Theory
and Methodology SIG biennial conference, the 2016 Dewey ‘Democracy and Education’: 100 Years
On event, and a major REAL event – a two-day Pre-Global Disability Summit Workshop on Inclusive
Education. Our SLE research group attracted world-leading academics in identity to a conference in
Cambridge in 2019 and a collaborative CUP book on the topic will be published in 2020. Our KPP
research cluster hosted international conferences on higher education and platform capitalism
(2018) and the post-pandemic university (2020).

Engaging with Recipients of Research
Engagement with research recipients happens systematically via specific networks and projects,
impact events, and support for individual researchers. The Faculty has a particular focus on
engaging with parents and practitioners, the latter consisting largely of teachers, school leaders,
teaching assistants and other educators.

A non-exhaustive list includes:

   •   The ERI team’s work with schools and national policy-makers to bring about changes and
       improvements in educational practice.

   •   Our NRICH Mathematics network: aimed primarily at teachers, providing access to research
       and resources with the aim of enriching the mathematical experiences of all learners.
       Members of the NRICH team also provide professional development for teachers.

   •   The PEDAL Centre has launched PEDAL Hub, a new play research website. This is an online
       resource that helps parents, practitioners, teachers, NGOs and policy-makers locate
       authoritative play research as well as understand its practical implications.


                                                                                                   19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Our Leadership for Learning Network disseminates research globally to a range of school
       leaders. Its members are located in a wide range of countries, including the Global South
       (e.g. Ghana).

   •   Our School-University Partnership for Educational Research (SUPER) has been highly
       successful in engaging a range of teachers and head teachers. It has hosted numerous
       events and used social media methods to disseminate Faculty research.

Co-production of research is important. Engaging with research users to identify important research
questions and develop more effective approaches to undertaking impactful research is vital.
Examples include Baker’s work with teachers in Cambridgeshire, Norfolk and Midlands as co-
researchers of the Lego funded Stepping Stones in Science project. Our research into widening
participation in higher education (Ilie, Vignoles) has benefited from work with colleagues in the
Cambridge Admissions Office, as well as the wider WP practitioner community regionally via the
Network for East Anglian Collaborative Outreach. The latter is joint with Anglia Ruskin University,
University of East Anglia, Norwich University of the Arts, and the University of Suffolk as well as
Further Education (FE) Colleges, secondary schools and other third sector organisations. REAL
holds regular roundtables focused on co-producing and disseminating research with senior policy-
makers from the UK government and the Global South. For example, REAL is a leading partner in
The Impact Initiative with the Institute for Development Studies, funded by ESRC and DFID, which
aims to increase the impact of international development research on policy.

The Faculty supports individuals to engage with research users. It provides: funding for travel
(£1,000 per researcher), support for dissemination activity (including training) and time. There are
numerous examples of individuals from all our research groups who have dedicated significant time
to engaging with users of research. A non-exhaustive list of different types of engagement includes:

   •   Black-Hawkins provided advice on inclusive education to the New Zealand Ministry of
       Education.

   •   Dillabough –advised UNESCO on their Youth Disadvantage in Global Cities, Youth Poverty
       and Sustainability programme.

   •   Gibson, who is on the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists Research Steering
       Group, contributed to clinical guidelines for speech language therapists working with clients
       with communication disorders.

   •   Hoffman, who is an expert panel member on the Cabinet Office and Civil Service Future
       Leaders Scheme (funded by an ESRC-IAA grant), has advised Project Oracle which seeks
       to assess the quality of research evidence available on education.

   •   Stylianides is on the advisory board of GeoGebra, an open-source dynamic mathematics
       software that has been translated into 50 languages and has millions of users in 190
       countries.

   •   Vignoles was awarded the 2019 WONKHE annual prize for engagement with UK higher
       education policy (see CS-23-683).
                                                                                                 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


T-SEDA: a case study

The best way to illustrate our approach to knowledge exchange and co-production, however, is a
specific example. The CEDiR group has developed the T-SEDA community: a community of
teachers focused on the use of dialogue and oracy in the classroom. This community spans eight
countries and involves over 200 teachers. Co-production of this research with practitioners has been
key to its quality and has also facilitated subsequent knowledge exchange and significant impact
beyond those schools that were involved in the research itself. The CEDiR group has developed:

 ●       The Teacher Scheme for Educational Dialogue Analysis (T-SEDA), based on a
         comprehensive analytic tool used by researchers globally to measure the quality of dialogue,
         with specialised observation tools (e.g. templates for coding live and recorded dialogue). The
         toolkit enables practitioners to systematically micro-analyse classroom interaction and hence
         the effectiveness and limitations of their own/peers’ practices, and to clearly monitor change.
 ●       Practical approaches derived from research on promoting dialogue, for example rating scales
         for active student participation and group work quality (strongly associated with learning
         gains, ‘ground rules’ and ‘talking points’;
 ●       Research-derived video clips illustrating dialogic practice as powerful stimuli for reflection and
         change;
 ●       Interactive whiteboard resources to support classroom dialogue.

The impact from this approach to KE and co-production has been considerable:

     •    The T-SEDA resource pack (available in English, Chinese, Hebrew, and Spanish) web
          page has received more than 5000 unique page views since its creation in Spring 2018.

     •    T-SEDA has been taken up systematically by at least 360 educators and school leaders in
          at least nine countries. In 2018-2019 it was adopted in Australia, China, Hong Kong, Israel,
          Mexico, New Zealand, Pakistan, Spain and the UK. Take-up has been spontaneous and
          sustained, including over successive academic years. The CEDIR team collected data on
          the use and impact of T-SEDA via teacher interviews, surveys and ‘teacher inquiry’ reports.

     •    Schools in Israel and New Zealand have used T-SEDA for 3+ years. In both, CEDiR
          researchers undertook follow-up interviews 18 months after adoption (and again after 36
          months in Israel), showing continuing development of practice. This includes 60+ teacher-
          created T-SEDA-based subject lesson plans. In Israel, academic teacher educators
          spontaneously translated the resources into Hebrew and led a programme involving at
          least 225 teachers during 2017-21. This included 30 trainee teachers at Ben Gurion
          University and 25 qualified teachers, who participated in a 30-hour facilitator training
          programme before cascading to at least 100 more teachers in their schools. A further
          25+30 secondary teachers came on board in 2019-20 and 2020-21 with a whole-school
          approach and weekly meetings led by the school leaders.

     •    In China, T-SEDA has been translated and used with teachers in three educator groups,
          including 45 teachers at The Eos Research Global centre in Beijing. A 6-month trial across
                                                                                                   21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Guandong province (188 schools) is planned. T-SEDA’s reputation for transforming
       practice led to China’s largest education provider Dipont Education committing £730,000
       over 10 years exclusively to a global platform for exchanging practical outputs of teacher
       inquiries, under the new Digital Education Futures Initiative.

   •   T-SEDA continues after two years to be used by the London South Teaching Schools
       Alliance (LSTSA) and the staff of the Cambridge University Primary School (see CS-23-
       682).

Wider Impact
At the global level, REAL has sought to improve policy representation of, and education provision
for poor, disabled and displaced children, with some success.

   •   Based on a body of research into the (in)visibility of disabled children in Global South
       education systems, Singal led the drafting of an International Statement of Action,
       “Accelerate Equitable and Quality Inclusive Education for Children and Youth with
       Disabilities” which has been signed by 31 donor agencies, international NGOs, research
       organisations and global education networks. The draft of this statement was developed from
       a workshop part funded by an ESRC Impact Acceleration Award. Singal also played an
       important role in the development of a Global Curriculum Framework and ‘Learning Passport’
       for 70 million displaced/refugee children in emergency contexts, based on collaboration with
       UNICEF, Microsoft, Cambridge University Press and Cambridge Assessment.

   •   Rose has been pivotal in getting recognition that international development policy needs to
       focus more on younger children, as well as the poorest children (see CS-23-681).

   •   Hennessy has provided input into DfID’s refresh of their strategy on use of technology in
       education in poor countries and now co-leads the national Ed-Tech Hub.

   •   Faculty research on leadership in schools has influenced practice globally. One example is
       the adoption of the conceptual framework and five principles of leadership developed by our
       Leadership for Learning research cluster by the Ghana Education Service (GES) for use in
       all its schools.

Nationally, the Faculty’s research has achieved significant impact on education policy and practice
as evidenced by:


   •   Through close collaboration with the Centre for Science and Policy (CSaP) at Cambridge
       University. 41 Faculty staff have provided consultation to 62 different policy-makers including
       senior civil servants in the Department for Education, Cabinet Office, Home Office and HM
       Treasury.

   •   The work of our STEM group, through the NRICH and Cambridge Mathematics projects,
       influencing the way mathematics is taught in UK schools. Annually around four million people
       access the free online mathematics resources, and NRICH has been recognised with the
       Resource of the Year Award 2019 from Above and Beyond.

                                                                                                    22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   The work of SLE on language development of students with English as an additional
       language. The EAL Assessment Framework (Bell Foundation; Evans and Liu) won the
       ELTons award for local innovation (British Council, June 2018). This Framework has been
       downloaded by over 2000 schools and adopted by five local authorities. It was cited in the
       DfE’s response to the Rochford Review (2017). The “We Are Multilingual” website has also
       promoted multilingualism among schoolchildren and the wider public, with a view to changing
       perceptions of languages in society.

   •   The successful collaboration between the Faculty and the University of Cambridge Primary
       School (see CS-23-682). Faculty researchers have influenced its building design and use
       (Burke), its arts and creativities curriculum (Burnard), classroom language approaches
       (Mercer) and play strategies (Whitebread). The UCPS has subsequently undertaken
       dissemination of its practices with potential for impact on 350 (Leaders, teachers and
       teaching assistant) practitioners as part of its status as a Chartered College of Teaching
       Regional hub, as well as 60 visits to other schools undertaken by the leadership team,
       spanning ten countries.


Sustainability and Wider Influence
Key contributions to the disciplinary and interdisciplinary health of Education have been made by
members of staff from all staff groups, as illustrated by selected examples:

Four members of staff have been involved in national reviews of education research, spanning nine
separate reviews. These include confidential reviews for other universities. Ten members of staff
have been involved in international reviews, spanning 20 separate reviews.

Faculty members participate in a range of prestigious institutions. Thirteen Faculty researchers are
members of a learned society, 20 belong to their respective subject association, such as the British
Education Research Association or the Society for Research into Higher Education. For example,
McLaughlin is a British Education Research Association Council Member and a Trustee. Hennessy
is also active in BERA and led the 2018 revision of the internationally renowned BERA Ethical
Guidelines. Vignoles is a Fellow of the British Academy. She is also a member of the ESRC, in
addition to her roles as data advisor to ESRC and trustee of the Nuffield Foundation. Rose was
President of the British Association of International and Comparative Education (BAICE) in 2017/18,
Singal is the current President of BAICE. Three Faculty researchers are members of the Higher
Education Academy, Bullock is a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and Elected Member of
the Royal Historical Society, Winterbottom is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology and Nicholl is
a Fellow Royal Society of Arts. Wilson is a member of the Research Council of Norway. Wegerif is
the coordinator of the EARLI SIG 26 Argumentation, Dialogue and Reasoning. He also founded and
led the EARLI SIG 25 in 2015 on Educational Theory for four years. Liu is a member of the influential
British Academy Language Advisory Group. Robertson served two terms on the ESRC’s panel B
reviewing and allocating grants.

All staff review and referee academic publications, 20 members of the Faculty have editorial roles
(17 editorship and 19 associate editorship positions), for journals including Education Policy Analysis
Archives, British Journal of Educational Technology, British Journal of Special Education, Education
Economics, Educational Researcher, Higher Education Quarterly, Globalisation, Societies and
                                                                                                    23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Education, the International Journal of Educational Research, the International Journal of Science
Education, the Journal of Research in Special Education, the Journal of Vocational Education and
Training and the Impact Journal of the Chartered College of Teachers. The Faculty’s own Cambridge
Journal of Education is recognised a leading research journals that attracts national and international
contributions from across the whole field.

Faculty members make a major contribution in their reviewing for particular grant schemes, with 24
members of staff having one or more such roles. Faculty staff sit on grant committees in Canada
(SSHRC), the Netherlands (NRO), Norway (Nordsforsk), Portugal, Sweden, Spain and Greece. Four
Faculty members sit on ESRC grant committees, as well as committees for NIHR, the British Council,
and the Nuffield Foundation. Twelve are members of the Peer Review College of the ESRC or
AHRC. Faculty members have also been members of or chaired panels for the British Academy
Global Challenges grant scheme, the ESRC-Newton Fund Higher Education Panel, the ESRC
Research Centres scheme, the UKRI research infrastructure committee, the British Council Newton
Fund, the Horizon 2020 panel, Marie Sklodowska-Curie COFUND fellowship programme in the Arts
and Humanities, the European Research Commission Starter Grant scheme and the British
Academy Visiting Fellowships scheme, to name but a few.

Faculty members regularly have visiting positions at universities around the world (six currently).
Staff have also been invited to undertake numerous keynote talks, too numerous to list. To illustrate,
Ramchandani gave a keynote to the National Conference of Early Childhood Australia in 2018.
Robertson gave the Annual Caroline Benn lecture in the House of Commons, and was keynote at
the European Education Research Association conference in Bolzano, Italy, in 2018. In 2018
Vignoles gave the University College Oxford Access Lecture and in 2019 the keynote at the LEER
Conference on Education Economics, Leuven. In 2015 Rose gave the keynote at the 10th
International Conference at the Institute for Educational Development, Aga Khan University, Karachi.
In 2016 Sutcliffe Sanders gave the Francelia Butler Keynote Lecture at the Children’s Literature
Association, whilst Warwick gave the University of Oslo School development through research-
practice partnerships keynote in 2018. In 2018, Burke gave the keynote address at the International
Standing Conference on the History of Education (ISCHE) conference.

Our staff contribute to the health of the discipline via postgraduate and early career training delivered
across the UK and beyond. Faculty members have been involved in postgraduate research training
at 12 universities across Europe, and an ECR mentoring project in Kazakhstan. For example,
Dillabough has been undertaking supervision and training of doctoral students with University of
Iceland since 2014, as well as at the University of Kwazulu-Natal. Hoffman lectures for the SEDUCE
Doctoral training programme at the University of Helsinki as well as at the REASON doctoral school
of LMU and TU Universities of Munich, funded by The Elite Network of Bavaria (ENB). Morrison
secured an Erasmus teaching exchange Lectureship.

Fifteen Faculty members from across the different research groups and at different career stages
have achieved 28 prizes and other forms of recognition and esteem. For example, Kulz won the
BJSE Early Career Prize and was awarded the 2018 Society for Educational Studies First Place
Book Prize for Factories for Learning. Sutliff Sanders won the Children’s Literature Association
Article Award for the best article on children’s literature published in 2015. Vignoles was awarded
the BERJ’s Editor’s Choice for her 2016 paper. Hoffman and colleagues were awarded the BSRLM
best paper award in 2015, Major was awarded the Best Education Technology paper at the BERA

                                                                                                      24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2016 conference. Julie Alderton received the Janet Duffin BSRLM Award for her 2018 paper
“Teaching mathematics to lower attainers: dilemmas and discourses”.

The Faculty also makes a contribution to preserving the health of key aspects of Education research.
For example, the STEM research group has been active nationally in promoting maths education in
the face of dwindling numbers, in collaboration with Cambridge Assessment and Cambridge
International Examinations.


Summary
The massive array of activities and achievements described above illustrate the rich and supportive
research environment that the Faculty is able to provide. This environment has enabled Faculty
members to produce world-leading research that is rigorous, important for the health of our education
system and wider society, and highly impactful. During this REF period we have we have taken a
more strategic approach to fostering our particular areas of strength and this has paid dividends, in
terms of the quality and critical mass of our research, our recruitment of internationally leading
researchers, and our ability to ensure that our research has a meaningful impact on both policy and
practice. We are mindful that at the heart of our success has been the huge commitment and
personal achievements of our students, our academics and our support staff. Our priority over the
next period will be to continue to invest in our people and sustain our world leading research
environment.




                                                                                                  25
