Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham
 Unit of Assessment: UoA10, Mathematical Sciences
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview and unit structure
 Mathematics is one of seven schools in Engineering and Physical Sciences, one the University’s
 five Colleges. The UoA has transformed in scientific breadth and external engagement over the
 assessment period, building significantly on recognised strengths in Combinatorics, Analysis,
 Algebra and Optimisation. Substantial institutional investment supports new inter- and intra-
 disciplinary research in Mathematical Biology and Healthcare, Geometry and Mathematical
 Physics, and Topology and Dynamical Systems. The UoA has grown to 57.2 FTE at census
 (from 40 in REF2014). It has held/secured 21 fellowships and personal awards in the
 assessment period, encompassing extremal combinatorics, algebraic geometry, representation
 theory, biological fluid dynamics, and mathematical neuroscience. The UoA hosts recipients of
 prestigious awards including three LMS Whitehead Prizes, three European Prizes in
 Combinatorics, and a Philip Leverhulme Prize. Alongside recognised strength in theoretical
 foundations, we support interdisciplinary initiatives, for example by co-leading the £10.5M cross-
 university Centre for Systems Modelling and Quantitative Biomedicine (SMQB).
 The UoA is broadly structured around Pure and Applied Mathematics. Many interactions
 between these areas, for example the Mathematics Colloquium and regular joint seminars,
 enable staff to share ideas, fostering a collaborative atmosphere. The unit structure is as follows
 (staff/student numbers are at census date unless otherwise indicated):
 Pure Mathematics (31 FTE, 48% growth since REF2014):
        Algebra (5 FTE + 1 post-census appointment; 1 PDRA; 10 PGRs): finite group theory,
        representation theory.
        Analysis (10 FTE; 1 PDRA; 5 PGRs): key strengths in harmonic analysis, PDEs,
        geometric measure theory, functional analysis.
        Combinatorics, Probability and Algorithms (10 FTE; 5 PDRAs; 10 PGRs): extremal
        combinatorics, connections to topology, statistical physics, probability and design theory.
        Geometry and Mathematical Physics (2 FTE + 3 post-census appointments; 3 PDRAs;
        2 PGRs): integrable systems and algebraic geometry, linking with algebra via
        representation theory.
        Topology and Dynamical Systems (4 FTE; 2 PGRs): topological dynamics, aperiodic
        order, fractal geometry, measure theory, number theory.
 Applied Mathematics (26.2 FTE, 38% growth since REF2014):
        Mathematical Biology and Healthcare (9.2 FTE; 11 PDRAs; 9 PGRs): mathematical
        neuroscience, biological continuum mechanics, systems biology, biological networks.
        Nonlinear Systems and Continuum Mechanics (6 FTE; 3 PDRAs; 5 PGRs): bubble
        dynamics, free-surface hydrodynamics, industrial applications.
        Optimisation, Numerical Analysis and Statistics (11 FTE + 1 post-census
        appointment; 2 PDRAs; 14 PGRs): conic optimisation, uncertainty quantification,
        mathematical ecology and epidemiology, clinical trial design.
 Highlights during this assessment period include:
    -   Major theoretical advances, e.g. Csaba, Kühn, Lo, Osthus and Treglown’s proofs
        of the 1-Factorization and Hamilton Decomposition conjectures, dating back to the
        1950s and 1970s respectively; Glock, Joos, Kim, Kühn and Osthus’s proof of the

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Oberwolfach Conjecture (posed in 1967); Good and Meddaugh’s discovery of deep
        connections between shifts of finite type and shadowing.
    -   Major global impact via the widespread adoption of Kocvara’s Conic Optimisation
        project PENNON and the software PENCOR, used by Allianz to manage risk in over
        €23B in funds.
    -   A three-fold increase in research income from £3.3M in REF2014 to £10.1M in
        REF2021.
    -   Significant investment in staff, including 28.2 new FTE, and improved retention and
        promotion of 22 outstanding early-career researchers and 4 senior leaders, growing the
        UoA from 40 to 57.2 Category A FTE this cycle.
    -   Establishing the Jinan University–University of Birmingham Joint Institute (JBJI),
        supporting investment of 17 new FTE and 6 RAs to the UoA (10 this cycle).
    -   Increasing staff diversity and leadership; 22% of Professors and Readers are female,
        up from 7% in REF2014.
    -   Increasing PhD awards by 20% per annum.


 1.2. Research strategy
 The UoA’s research vision is built on five strategic aims:
 1. Build on existing strengths, introduce new strategically important areas and enhance
 cross-theme collaboration
 REF2014 recognised the UoA’s world-leading and internationally excellent outputs. Existing
 strengths have been significantly expanded in line with REF2014 aims for Analysis,
 Combinatorics and Mathematical Biology (Sec.1.3).
 In addition, significant investment in new areas at the interfaces of our strengths add to the
 vitality and sustainability of the UoA, including Healthcare (broadening Mathematical Biology,
 including SMQB) and Topology (3 new FTE, building on Good’s successes). Recent
 appointments (e.g. Carmesin, Duong, Shang, Terry) enhance connectivity between themes
 (Sec.1.3).
 2. Strategic development of impact and a culture of translational research
 Targeted support, including funding and mentoring, has enabled growth in translational
 research. All Impact Case Studies are the result of proactive support for academics, while
 two 3-year research associateships highlight investment in promising new translational
 areas of high impact. Three early-mid-career academics (Dyson, Jabbari, Petrovskaya)
 were assisted in early-stage impact development in fluid dynamics in plant sciences,
 modelling of antimicrobial resistance, and numerical analysis in pest monitoring. This led to
 Dyson and Thomas-Seale’s (Engineering) record of invention for the GrowCAD plant
 growth-inspired additive manufacturing methodology, Jabbari’s joint £180K Leverhulme
 project with Fernandez-Trillo (Chemistry), and six outputs led by Petrovskaya with Harper
 Adams University on pest monitoring and control in agriculture. The UoA has also benefitted
 from institutionally managed funds: the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account supported
 Reguera’s Developing Leaders award and funded D. Smith and Jabbari’s work with Procter
 and Gamble on model parameter estimation improving detergent formulation, leading to
 subsequent financial investment from P&G.
 3. Establish and sustain research that confronts challenges in other disciplines
 Recognising the importance of mathematics to other disciplines, we have taken a
 systematic approach to establishing and sustaining interdisciplinary research.

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary Research Officer Spill creates and maintains connections across the
 University and beyond. Knowledge Exchange Lead Montenegro-Johnson convenes
 workshops to initiate projects with industry and government bodies.
 The UoA participates in the multidisciplinary University Institute for Global Innovation (2.3-
 REF5a), notably Confronting Antimicrobial Resistance (Jabbari) and Water Challenges
 (Tzella), and the Birmingham Institute for Forestry Research (Dyson). Staff hold honorary
 positions in the Centre for Computational Biology, Centre for Topological Design, Institute
 for Metabolism and Systems Research, Institute of Microbiology and Infection, and Institute
 of Translational Medicine. We actively develop interdisciplinary links with industry, as
 exemplified by recent collaborations with Ultrahaptics and Cellink (Montenegro-Johnson),
 Alphasonics (WR Smith and Q Wang), and Phytoponics (Dyson). We participate in
 interdisciplinary doctoral training including the EPSRC Topological Design CDT, Wellcome
 Trust Mechanisms of Inflammatory Disease, Wellcome Trust Antimicrobials and
 Antimicrobial Resistance, MRC Integrated Midlands Partnership for Biomedical Training,
 BBSRC Midlands Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership, Centre for Complexity
 Science (Warwick). These have collectively led to numerous interdisciplinary publications
 (e.g. Kerr et al. Access Microbiol. 2020; Ziegler et al. Interface 2019; Hall-McNair et al.
 Phys. Rev. Fluids 2019; Klaise Phys. Rev. E 2018).
 We co-lead the Centre for Systems Modelling and Quantitative Biomedicine (SMQB) (£7.8M
 internal investment, £2.7M from Epilepsy Research UK, NIHR and the Wellcome Trust
 ISSF), forming a multidisciplinary initiative spanning Mathematics, Computer Science, and
 Metabolism and Systems Research. SMQB leverages strengths in mechanistic modelling,
 institutional investments in Healthcare Technologies and strategic connections with
 University Hospitals Birmingham (2.1.3-REF5a and Sec.1.3, 3.2 below). To foster
 interdisciplinary research in data science, the University joined the Alan Turing Institute in
 2018; four members of the UoA (Bespalov, Fountoulakis, Johnson and D. Smith) hold
 Turing Fellowships (Sec.3.2).
 4. Increase external and internal investment to support world-leading research activities
 A range of mechanisms support grant capture (Sec.3.1), including travel funds for project
 development, peer review, interview coaching, PhD scholarships, and reduced teaching to
 provide time for funding applications and project delivery. Fourteen staff, including a
 subsequent UKRI Future Leaders Fellow (FLF), attended the College’s Grant Writing
 Series.
 Research income in this REF cycle totals more than £10.1M, trebling the REF2014
 figure. Funding from research councils has grown 208%; from EU sources 313%; from
 charities 176%. Forty-three staff received external funding; women (17.5% of staff) secured
 27.2% of this income. This funding supports academic staff through personal fellowships
 and PDRAs/PGRs, contributing to the vitality of our research environment.
 Institutional investment has supported growth from 40 to 57.2 Category A FTE this cycle
 (rising to 62.2 at March 2021).
 5. Ensure the best researchers are hired to deliver our research strategy
 Since 2014, we have recruited from Oxford, Cambridge, Warwick, Imperial, ETH and MIT.
 Seven appointees have received personal awards of over £1M, e.g. Carmesin’s EPSRC
 Fellowship, Kelly and Spill’s UKRI FLF, and Montenegro-Johnson’s Leverhulme Research
 Leadership Award; post-census hires Closset and Topley hold major fellowships (RS
 University Research Fellowship and UKRI FLF).
 Actions highlighted in our Athena Swan Bronze Award (2018-22) show demonstrable
 impact, with the appointment of three new female staff (Kombrink, and two post-census
 appointments Peon-Nieto and Touloupou). Advertising on the ‘Out in Math’ Facebook page

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resulted in at least one lectureship appointment this cycle.


 1.3. Achievements and future aims by theme
 Our REF2014 submission outlined goals of (i) growing Algebra, Analysis, Combinatorics,
 Nonlinear Systems, and Biomathematics, (ii) the continued development of outward-facing
 research in Optimisation and Statistics, and (iii) strengthening the interface between Data
 Science and Medicine, with a focus on impact. Both Analysis and Combinatorics have grown
 from 6 to 10 FTE and Mathematical Biology (including SMQB) from 3 to 9.2 FTE, with a number
 of appointees already holding prestigious personal awards. Optimisation and Statistics have
 grown to encompass optimisation for data science and areas at the interface with medicine and
 life sciences. SMQB provides a cross-university structure supporting interdisciplinary research
 and impact. Algebra, Continuum Mechanics and Nonlinear Systems have maintained excellent
 research activity; growth in these areas has primarily been through appointments in closely
 related areas (e.g. Geometry, Mathematical Biology).
 Combinatorics, Probability and Algorithms
 Led by Kühn and Osthus (LMS Whitehead Prize 2014, invited ICM speakers 2014), this theme is
 recognised as one of the world’s leading Combinatorics groups. Achieving a REF2014 aim, it
 has expanded to 10 permanent staff (from 6 in 2013). This includes three Birmingham Fellows
 (3.4.1-REF5a) appointed from Cambridge: Lo (2014); Montgomery (2018, recipient of the 2019
 European Prize in Combinatorics); and Carmesin (2018). Carmesin expands activity to include
 topological and structural graph theory, resulting in wider interdisciplinary collaboration, e.g.,
 through supervision in the CDT in Topological Design. Jenssen (from Oxford) works at the
 interfaces of combinatorics, statistical physics and computer science; Long (Oxford) in extremal
 and probabilistic combinatorics.
 Eighteen major awards held this cycle include two EPSRC Fellowships (Kühn, Treglown,
 additionally Carmesin post-census); an ERC Advanced Grant (Kühn); ERC Starting Grant
 (Osthus, additionally Montgomery post-census); three EPSRC First Grants (Lo, Mycroft,
 Perkins); RS Wolfson Research Merit Award (Kühn). Montgomery won a Philip Leverhulme
 Prize post-census. Nineteen postdocs also added to the vitality of the group this cycle (five
 previous cycle).
 2021-26 Objectives: To focus on interactions between probability and combinatorics, with the
 goal of developing a toolbox for attacking extremal questions in combinatorics, including for
 perfect matchings and graph decompositions. Work at the interface with theoretical computer
 science, emphasising randomised algorithms for large networks and other discrete structures.
 Mathematical Biology and Healthcare
 In 2014, Mathematical Biology consisted of three recent appointees (D. Smith, Dyson, Jabbari),
 engaging with medicine and plant biotechnology. The UoA commenced targeted expansion in
 line with REF2014 goals: Montenegro-Johnson (from Cambridge) specialises in continuum
 mechanics for biological and bio-inspired systems, Spill (MIT) in stochastic modelling and cancer
 mechanobiology, and Johnson (Warwick) in networks and complex systems. These posts
 complemented and broadened the theme’s activities, leading to a Leverhulme Research
 Leadership Award (Montenegro-Johnson) and a UKRI FLF (Spill), alongside other awards.
 Smith’s software FAST (Flagellar Analysis and Sperm Tracking) is undergoing trials for couples
 undergoing IVF at Birmingham Women’s Hospital and has attracted interest from eight
 international clinics.
 The UoA plays a central role in SMQB (Sec.3.2), recruiting Terry in 2019, and an associated
 group of externally funded fellows focusing on dynamical systems analysis applied to epilepsy
 and neuroendocrine disease. Recent successes include Woldman’s Epilepsy Research UK


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Emerging Leader Fellowship, and a Medilink UK National Startup Award to translational spin-out
 Neuronostics. Part-time Chair Viktor Jirsa (INS Marseille and leader of the international Virtual
 Brain Project) brings further translational expertise.
 2021-26 Objectives: To apply modelling to data science and machine learning, focusing on
 mathematical neuroscience, endocrinology, microbiology and mechanobiology; to capitalise on
 integration with other core strengths, particularly in applications of ‘pure’ graph theory to network
 science for health, and optimisation to infer neurological connectivity and processes underlying
 normal and dysfunctional brain activity.
 Algebra
 Algebra has evolved to encompass world-class research in representation and Lie theory
 alongside established strengths in group theory and its generalisations. Craven and Goodwin
 lead representation theory, focussing on algebraic groups, Lie algebras and finite groups of Lie
 type. Topley (post-census, UKRI FLF) brings expertise in Lie theory and Poisson
 geometry. Core activity in group theory includes major outputs by Craven, Flavell, Goodwin,
 Magaard, Parker and Shpectorov. The latter’s influence has drawn significant international
 interest in axial algebras, evidenced by e.g., his Heilbronn Focused Research Workshop (Bristol
 2018; further workshop planned for 2021/22). Another highlight is Craven’s determination of the
 maximal subgroups of certain exceptional groups, providing the first progress on the complete
 classification of such subgroups for all prime powers since Malle’s highly cited work (1991).
 2021-26 Objectives: To create major impact in modular representation theory of Lie algebras.
 To build on this global research programme to understand subgroup structure of finite simple
 groups; develop research on local-global conjectures in group representation theory; continue to
 lead on finite simple groups and their classification.
 Analysis
 Since 2014, Analysis has consolidated its position as an international centre for harmonic
 analysis and its interactions. With early-career appointments Martini, Morris (Oxford), Oliveira e
 Silva and Y. Wang, it is rapidly becoming an international destination of choice for postdoctoral
 fellows and international visitors. Eleven were supported during this cycle, via e.g., Bennett’s
 ERC Grant and several visiting fellowships (Marie Skłodowska-Curie, Japan Society for the
 Promotion of Science, POSCO Korea).
 The theme has broadened its activity into stochastic analysis through JBJI appointments Duong
 (Imperial) and Huang. Key theoretical advances include proving the nonlinear Brascamp-Lieb
 inequality (Bennett, Duke 2020) and a major breakthrough in the control of fractional Riesz
 transforms (Reguera, Memoirs AMS 2020).
 2021-26 Objectives: To lead on emerging themes in (i) geometric aspects of real and harmonic
 analysis, particularly in the control of oscillatory and singular integrals, PDEs and geometric
 measure theory, and (ii) probabilistic and variational approaches to nonlinear dispersive, kinetic
 and diffusion equations.
 Geometry and Mathematical Physics
 Mazzocco (recruited in 2018, as theme lead), establishes activity across integrable systems,
 the Langlands programme, algebraic and enumerative geometry, and mathematical
 physics. Recent work has produced a representation theoretic approach to the theory of
 the Painlevé equations and, with Chekhov and Rubtsov, a step towards the ambitious goal of
 describing all Gross-Hacking and Keel theta functions in the non-commutative world (Adv. Math
 2020).
 Kelly (from Cambridge, UKRI FLF 2020) catalyses activity in algebraic geometry. Working
 in mirror symmetry, he has proved three conjectures about derived categories that arise
 naturally in Kontsevich’s homological mirror symmetry conjecture (Am. J. Math 2017).

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Van Garrel (post-cycle, Warwick) strengthens connections with enumerative geometry. Peón-
 Nieto, known for her proofs of conjectures by Donagi-Pantev (as part of the
 Langlands programme), joins post-cycle following a Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Fellowship. Closset (post-cycle, Oxford; RS URF) has attracted significant attention in high-
 energy physics.
 2021-26 Objectives: To establish a leading centre encompassing geometry and quantum field
 theory, hosting a Programme Grant Hub. Synergies in integrability, mirror symmetry and
 geometry will impact algebraic geometry and string theory, including new Landau-Ginzburg
 enumerative techniques, applications to Donaldson-Thomas theory, super-conformal field
 theory, Langlands programme and generalisations of the topological recursion technique.
 Nonlinear Systems and Continuum Mechanics
 The UoA has long-standing strengths in free surface hydrodynamics, including two EPSRC
 projects with industry (Shikhmurzaev, with Schlumberger Gould Research and Tata Steel).
 Shikhmurzaev’s contribution to a Programme Grant in Nottingham implements his internationally
 recognised Interface Formation Model, described in his landmark monograph Capillary Flows
 with Forming Interfaces (250 citations). Q. Wang holds joint funding with Dentistry to improve
 ultrasonic dental appliance cleaning through bubble dynamics.
 2021-26 Objectives: Build on recognised strengths in free surface fluid dynamics and interfacial
 flows in strategically important areas. Grow links with EPSRC CDT in Formulation
 Engineering, and healthcare technologies, e.g., liquid jet and bubble dynamics applied to drug
 delivery.
 Optimisation, Numerical Analysis and Statistics
 This theme unites expertise in large-scale optimisation, optimisation in data science, numerical
 linear algebra and tropical mathematics, uncertainty quantification, and applications in
 healthcare, epidemiology, ecology and finance. Major activities include hosting the biennial IMA
 Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimisation (since 2007), Kocvara’s research in
 conic optimisation and associated applications (Sec.1.1 and PENCOR Impact Case Study) and
 participation in the Horizon 2020 POEMA Network, and Bespalov’s contributions to the T-IFISS
 toolbox for adaptive finite elements for uncertainty quantification.
 This theme underpins excellence in other areas, e.g., Petrovskaya’s contribution to
 Shikhmurzaev’s EPSRC-funded research on oil recovery, and Loghin & Tzella’s recent
 advances beyond homogenisation theory to capture dispersion with non-Gaussian tails (Proc R.
 Soc A 2020). New appointee Sergeev maintains activity in tropical mathematics following
 Butkovic’s retirement, strengthened by the appointment of Jones, and growing interaction with
 railways and robotics. J. Li introduces new activity in optimisation for data science, bringing
 expertise in medical image analysis. Bespalov and Loghin apply uncertainty quantification and
 PDEs to deep learning in scientific computing, supported by Bespalov’s Turing Fellowship.
 In statistics, Chakraborty develops robust multivariate methods and applications in respiratory
 medicine with Birmingham Heartlands Hospital, and Hemming (UoA2) leads stepped-wedge trial
 design for health interventions, contributing to a UoA10 Impact Case Study. Early-career
 appointments in numerics for stochastic differential equations (Shang, ETH) and epidemiology
 (Touloupou, Warwick, post cycle) further broadens the theme’s activities and strengthens data
 science.
 2021-26 Objectives: To develop theoretical underpinnings of deep learning for scientific
 computing; strengthen the clinical and healthcare interfaces, particularly in epidemiology and
 medical image analysis; capitalise on institutional strengths (Birmingham Health Partners, 2.1.3-
 REF5a; Health Innovation Campus, 4.2.2-REF5a; Rail 4.2.3-REF5a; Interdisciplinary Data
 Sciences, 2.4-REF5a).


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Topology and Dynamical Systems
 Following significant theoretical achievements, e.g. on shadowing in Dynamical
 Systems (Inventiones 2020), and after hosting externally funded fellowships (4 this cycle,
 including a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow), this area has expanded considerably, with three
 new appointments. Baker (Warwick) works at the interface of dynamical systems and number
 theory (e.g. Adv. Math. 2020 and 2021), Kombrink’s research is in geometry and stochastics and
 Samuel works primarily in fractal geometry.
 2021-26 Objectives: To grow this relatively young theme through continued postdoctoral
 appointments; to develop intradisciplinary research in aperiodic order, iterated function systems,
 beta maps and shadowing and their relationships to quasicrystals, number theory, probability
 theory and stability theory.


 1.4. Progress towards an open research environment
 The UoA is fully committed to Open Research, maximising engagement and impact through
 open access publications, code, and editorial contributions to open access journals.
 The University’s Open Research Group (2.2-REF5a), emphasising DORA and Plan S, guides
 UoA-level activities ensuring the use of fair and responsible metrics in research and staff
 assessment (probation and promotion) and actively promotes open publication. The
 University’s Advanced Research Computing team provide monthly Research Data Drop-ins and
 the Library provides a VLE course on Research Data Management.
 In addition to uploading author-accepted manuscripts to the University’s repository UBIRA (over
 400 between 2014-20) and arXiv (529 between 2014-20), we increasingly publish papers (over
 170 between 2014-20) in gold or diamond open access journals; the former is supported by
 University UKRI and COAF funds. The UoA provides leadership in the development of open
 access journals (e.g., Kühn’s editorship of Advances in Combinatorics; Sec.4.4).
 A recent initiative to enhance open research is the appointment of Open Research Champion
 Gallagher to develop a webpage curating publications, code and data. This builds on successes
 such as Kocvara’s PENLAB optimisation software, with over 1900 downloads worldwide.
 Researchers benefit from training and contract engagements by Research Software Engineering
 (4.5-REF5a) to develop reusable/shareable code.


 1.5 Research Integrity
 The University’s Research Governance Ethics and Integrity Committee and annual Statement on
 Research Integrity (2.2-REF5a) supports the UoA on research-related ethical issues. Following
 the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the Director of Research is responsible for relevant
 training. All PGRs and staff receive training on Research Integrity in Mathematics, including
 plagiarism, presentation of research methods and procedures, fair presentation of results,
 guidance on joint authorship, acknowledging the work of others, availability of code and data for
 reproducibility, and making fair and justifiable claims. All staff undertake compulsory biennial
 Data Protection training.


 1.6 Sustainability: Five year vision and key future aims
 The UoA enters the next cycle with a vibrant cohort of early-career staff holding significant
 external funding, greatly strengthened senior leadership in pure and applied mathematics, a
 new strategic centre in SMQB, and growing engagement with healthcare and industry.
 Building on this success, our vision is to broaden existing areas of excellence and grow to
 become recognised as world-leading across a broad range of research themes, and

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 associated societal impact.
 UoA-level actions to deliver 2021-26 aims:
        -    Sustainable growth to 70 permanent FTE over the next 5 years, leveraging
             transnational activity such as JBJI, enabling expansion in key scientific areas
             (outlined below).
        -    Knowledge exchange and impact. Increase engagement with the national KE
             agenda, exploiting Dyson's membership of the Newton Gateway Scientific
             Advisory Panel. Strengthen the UoA’s industrial engagement, building on
             established activity in Optimisation, Statistics and Continuum Mechanics, and
             build engagement in other areas of strength including Discrete Mathematics.
             Utilise horizon scanning to identify emerging societal needs for mathematics.
             Through these mechanisms, enhance the breadth and depth of the UoA's impact.
        -    Interdisciplinarity, with particular focus on Data Science and Statistics
             expansion: capitalise on strategic investment in SMQB and NHS partnerships,
             growing activity around new appointments in Computational Statistics (J. Li,
             Shang) and Epidemiology (Touloupou), and increase engagement with the
             Turing Institute, particularly in network science and uncertainty quantification
             (Bespalov, Fountoulakis, Johnson).
        -    Investment. Support institutional strategy (2.1.4-REF5a), by growing grant
             capture to ensure a 50% increase in PDRA numbers, thereby enabling
             fundamental and impactful research and cementing Birmingham as a destination
             of choice for early-career researchers.
        -    Connectivity. Continue the programme of strengthening and diversifying Pure
             Mathematics including in areas that connect theoretical and impactful research
             (e.g., combinatorics and network science, probability and data science).


 2. People
 2.1. Staff development strategy
 As a UoA that has significantly expanded particularly through investment in early-career
 researchers, we place great emphasis in providing an inclusive, flexible training and
 developmental environment within which equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I) is embedded.
 This environment, shaped by the Vitae Concordat, which provides ‘opportunities, structured
 support, encouragement and time for researchers to engage in a minimum of 10 days
 professional development pro rata per year’, enables individuals to realise their career ambitions
 whilst collectively contributing to our wider research and impact objectives.
 Training and development for all staff
 The annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) enables staff to reflect upon career
 aspirations, identify development needs for their research careers, and mechanisms to support
 progression, including training, mentoring/coaching, study leave and access to internal funds,
 along with balancing duties to ensure sufficient time is available for research.
 All new staff undertake a University induction coupled with a bespoke UoA-level induction that
 includes compulsory training in key areas including ED&I, and are assigned a mentor from
 within the UoA to enhance their transition.
 Training and mentoring activities include institutional provision (3.4.2 and 3.4.4, REF5a),
 College-level grant writing workshops (14 attendees), programme-specific workshops (e.g.,
 EPRSC New Investigator Awards and Fellowships), coaching and mock interviews. Tailored
 workshops and development days have focused on funding applications, industry

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement and ED&I.
 Leadership development
 A specific objective has been to strengthen leadership amongst existing staff to improve
 resilience and aid succession planning through:
       Training: Since REF2014 five UoA staff (Good, Leppinen, Meyer, Montenegro-
        Johnson, D. Smith) have completed/recently commenced, University-level Senior,
        Emerging and Research Leadership Programmes delivered by People and
        Organisation Development.
       Support to enhance senior leadership roles, e.g., through the provision of advance
        study leave (e.g., Good – Head of School).
       Strategic recruitment expanding research leadership in key themes (Sec.1.3).
       Mentoring and coaching: newly created roles facilitate the transfer of expertise and
        develop research leadership skills, e.g., Interdisciplinary Research Officer (Spill),
        Knowledge Exchange Lead (Montenegro-Johnson), and Early-Career Fellowship lead
        (Montgomery).
 Four UoA professors (Kühn and Osthus, recruited in 2004 to establish Combinatorics;
 Bennett, recruited in 2005 to establish Analysis; D. Smith, recruited in 2009 and now co-
 leading Mathematical Biology and Healthcare) were initially early-career appointees,
 demonstrating the success of our strategy. Four recent promotions to Reader (Dyson,
 Fountoulakis, Goodwin, Maleva) are being supported in a similar way, as are more recent
 appointments to Birmingham Fellowships (Carmesin, Craven, Jabbari, Lo, Montgomery,
 Reguera, Treglown) and Lectureships (Kelly, establishing the Algebraic Geometry sub-area;
 Montenegro-Johnson, linking with Chemical Engineering; Spill, establishing mechanical
 systems biology).


 2.2. Staffing and recruitment policy
 Overseen by UoA Executive, our staffing and recruitment policy is driven by the desire to grow
 sustainably while maintaining a diverse, vibrant and collegial environment. Beyond supporting
 the development of existing staff, we have ambitiously expanded, achieving critical mass in a
 number of themes (Sec.1.3). Our strategy of recruiting early-career appointments at REF2014
 has broadened to include developing senior leadership through recruitment and internal
 promotion with an emphasis on ED&I (Secs.2.5, 2.7).
 Annually, and in conjunction with the lead(s) of each theme, the Executive reviews its five-year
 recruitment plan. Priority areas are identified, to encompass current and emerging research
 trends within each theme, opportunities for translational research and knowledge exchange,
 alignment with the UoA’s internationalisation and ED&I strategy. For each new role, a
 recruitment strategy is developed to ensure the very best current and emerging researchers are
 identified. A senior academic is identified to lead recruitment for each role, with strategic
 oversight provided by the Executive, to ensure UoA-level priorities, for example ED&I, are
 realised throughout the recruitment cycle.
 Through this approach, 28.2 new Category A FTEs (c. 50% growth) were appointed this
 cycle, including 3.2 at Chair. Terry brings translational research on epilepsy diagnosis and
 prognosis (including through the award-winning spin-out Neuronostics); along with fractional
 appointee Jirsa, this complements existing strengths in Mathematical Biology and
 Healthcare. The appointment of J. Li catalyses expansion of impact in Data Science
 (Sec.1.6). Mazzocco’s new theme in Geometry and Mathematical Physics enables further
 interaction outside of mathematics.
 With over 25 early-career appointments, there has been significant investment to strengthen

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 existing themes and invest in new areas of Topology and Dynamical Systems, and
 Geometry and Mathematical Physics. Recruiting established leaders and outstanding early-
 career researchers, coupled with internal promotions (Sec.2.5) and our policy to appoint on
 permanent contracts (all but two Category A staff are permanent), ensures sustainability in
 leadership.
 Diversity is an important focus. We have:
       Maintained a balance of senior, mid- and early-career staff, facilitating succession
        planning. At census date, 31% of staff were Readers/Professors compared with
        32.5% in 2013, despite the increase in FTE.
       Improved the number of female senior academics (50% of Readers and 14% of
        Professors, double national average).
 Our 2021-2026 objectives are to:
    1. Sustainably grow to 70 permanent FTE (Sec.1.6).
    2. Further increase staff diversity:
        -   Increase the proportion of female/non-binary staff to above the national average in
            mathematics.
        -   Consistently obtain at least a quarter of female/non-binary applications for permanent
            positions.
    3. Build on successes in supporting fellowship applications and encourage/support staff to
       secure large grants (Sec.3.1).
 We monitor diversity statistics throughout recruitment, taking positive action, if necessary, to
 mitigate unconscious bias. Guided by recommendations from Learned Societies (e.g. LMS Good
 Practice Scheme), our ED&I Committee reviews our external profile and internal processes to
 ensure we recruit from a maximally diverse talent pool. Kelly is a member of the LMS Women in
 Mathematics Committee, providing a link to national policy and practice.


 2.3. Supporting Early-Career Academics/PDRAs
 Lecturers/Fellows receive a relocation and start-up package (indicatively £5K), and
 support for visa applications. Newly appointed academic staff receive support during
 probation from the Director for Staffing (Dyson), and a mentor with whom they meet at least
 quarterly to review progress against agreed objectives and identify development
 opportunities. During probation, staff have a substantially reduced teaching load, supporting
 their research. Birmingham Fellows have five years’ reduced teaching and administration.
 Newly recruited senior staff are afforded at least a year of reduced administration and
 teaching. Probationers are prioritised for PhD scholarships and supported by experienced
 co-supervisors. In this cycle, almost all probationary staff supervised PGRs.
 Postdoctoral Research Associates are supported by an annual Performance
 Development Review (PDR, Sec.2.1) and have a plethora of training opportunities available.
 The College’s Postdoctoral and Early Career Development and Training scheme organises
 thematic training sessions (PDRA Luo is an active committee member), including Open
 Research, Engagement Outside Academia, and Research Grants - Where do I Start?
 Ten PDRAs have taken the opportunity to teach advanced undergraduate modules and are
 able to develop supervision/project management skills by supervising master’s projects with
 the close support of an experienced co-supervisor. For example, Neal’s MSci project with
 PDRA Gallagher on model-based image analysis resulted in a publication (Interface 2017).
 PDRAs contribute to decision making and help shape policies, support and training


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provision, through membership of ED&I, Research and Athena Swan committees.
 85.7% of PDRAs (surveyed 2020) were very satisfied with the ‘quality of guidance and
 mentoring’ received. Over fifteen PDRAs who joined this cycle have already moved to
 permanent academic positions, e.g., at Charles University, Heidelberg, KAIST, Kent,
 Ryerson, Umea, UPC Barcelona, and Warwick. PDRAs have also secured scientific roles in
 industry e.g., at Huawei, NevaLabsHQ and Sony.


 2.4. Study/impact leave and staff exchange
 All post-probation staff can apply for a semester of study/impact leave every three years,
 ensuring academics at every career stage have periods of intense research focus,
 supporting impact generation (Sec.1.2) and international collaborations. This cycle, 23 staff
 took at least one period of leave. Researchers used this time to visit MSRI Berkeley
 (Maleva), INI Cambridge (Bespalov) and UIUC (Treglown), explore new industrial
 partnerships with Ironclad Biosciences (Jabbari) and Phytoponics (Dyson), prepare grant
 proposals (D. Smith’s Healthcare Technologies Challenge Award) and write monographs
 (Parker).
 Staff exchange is facilitated through the themes with oversight maintained by D. Smith (Director
 of Research), with expertise in brokering and developing relationships provided by Montenegro-
 Johnson (Knowledge Exchange Lead). This flexible and supportive approach allows emerging
 opportunities for collaboration with industry to be efficiently realised. For example, a number of
 PhD projects have involved industry placements (e.g., PGR Thomson with P&G, and PGR
 Cupples with Linear Diagnostics Ltd). Examples of sustained relationships established through
 movement of staff and PGRs to industry include former Category A staff Otto (R&A,
 underpinning an Impact Case Study), and PGRs Fiala and Schlueter (underpinning translation
 of PENLAB and the MIDACO Impact Case Study).


 2.5. Recognition/Reward
 We proactively support and encourage promotion applications and nominate staff for
 awards and prizes; successes include Kuhn’s Wolfson Merit Award and Montgomery’s
 Philip Leverhulme Prize.
 The Promotions Committee systematically reviews all staff annually to avoid unconscious
 bias and to identify individual career development needs against University promotion criteria.
 Every staff member seeking to apply for promotion is provided with an experienced mentor, with
 additional feedback provided by the UoA’s Promotion Committee, and interview practice.
 Unsuccessful applicants debrief with a senior colleague to review their feedback and identify
 future development needs.
 This cycle 6 female and 16 male Category A staff have been promoted, with 2 female, 2
 male promoted twice. There have been 19 promotions to Senior Lecturer, 4 to Reader and
 3 to Chair. The success rate was 72%.


 2.6 Research students
 PhD awards have risen to an average of almost 13 p.a. this cycle (20% increase). Over the
 past three years, 42% of PhD graduates were from overseas; 20% of graduates were
 female/non-binary, the latter motivating an Athena Swan Bronze objective to exceed the
 national benchmark of 26% (LMS Benchmarking Study 2017). PGR expansion has resulted
 from increased grant-supported studentships, increased EPSRC DTP scholarships due to
 growth in our funding portfolio, strategic internal investment, and our growing reputation as

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a destination for outstanding graduates. 41 PGRs commenced UKRI-supported
 studentships this cycle, with many studentships being part-funded by the institution. We
 aim to maintain this rate of growth in the next cycle (19 PGRs commenced studies in 2020).
 The volume and quality of PGR research continues to grow, e.g., Whitley resolved the 25-
 year-old Dipper-Du Conjecture (Proceedings LMS, 2019). In “The existence of designs via
 iterative absorption” (Memoirs AMS, to appear), Glock and co-authors Kühn, Lo and Osthus
 proved a wide generalisation of the Existence of Designs Conjecture; the cornerstone
 question in Design Theory, this conjecture from 1853 had only recently been solved by
 Keevash. Glock received the 2018 Richard Rado prize for his PhD thesis. Beltran was
 awarded the Vicent Caselles prize from the Real Sociedad Matematica Espanola for
 contributions to harmonic analysis.
 Graduates have secured research or permanent positions in academia, e.g., at Bilbao,
 Bristol, Czech Academy of Sciences, ETH Zurich, Oxford, Sao Paulo, Zagreb, and in
 industrial science and engineering, e.g., Arup, Bosch, Fiecon, Tessella.
 Approach to recruiting doctoral research students
 The UoA’s vision is to attract outstanding graduates, irrespective of protected characteristics,
 and encourage and enable progression into research careers.
 We work with all undergraduates to promote research-related careers and foster their
 mathematical confidence. For example, promising Year 2 students are encouraged to transfer
 to the MSci. Masters’ dissertations and LMS/EPSRC/BBSRC summer projects (e.g., 7 LMS
 bursaries 2015-19) have proved an effective bridge to PhD research, often yielding
 publications e.g. Kerr and Thomson (Roy. Soc. Open Sci., 2019), Bowtell (Graphs and
 Combinatorics, 2020), Dari (J. Biomechanics, 2019), and three papers arising from
 Thomas’s project, working with Good. Several such students have subsequently entered
 postgraduate research in Birmingham and elsewhere (e.g., Oxford, Manchester,
 Nottingham). For example, seven (4 male, 3 female or non-binary) of the fourteen
 PhD/MRes students that started in the UoA during 2018/19 were Birmingham
 undergraduates.
 To encourage engagement with these opportunities and to stimulate interest in further study,
 internal mentoring and PGR prospects events are held throughout the year, with a focus on
 underrepresented groups. These activities have been complemented by rewriting the UoA’s
 externally-facing webpages to emphasise our inclusive culture, and ensuring that admissions
 events (e.g., open days, applicant visits to research groups) are supported by a diverse
 sample of the current postgraduate community.
 Building on current approaches, goals for the next 5 years are to:
     -       Continue to review and enhance postgraduate admissions, encompassing all
             activities related to external recruitment of postgraduate researchers
             (advertising, webpages, interviews).
     -       Internally core fund 5-10 additional summer placements each year.
     -       Improve the gender balance of internal PhD scholarship applicants through
             continued targeted mentoring.
 Training environment and student development
 Student-supervisor relationships are very strong, with weekly meetings of at least an hour
 and collaborations often continuing for years beyond graduation. Regular reading groups
 and seminars help integrate PGRs into our research culture. There are eight (weekly) term-
 time seminar series and twice-termly Mathematics Colloquia. Reading groups provide
 PGRs (and PDRAs) opportunities to engage collectively with contemporary research topics
 over a sustained period and a supportive atmosphere for delivering presentations. PGRs

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefit from the UoA’s participation in four LMS Scheme 3 Networks (in Algebra, Analysis
 and Topology), through which they present work to their broader community.
 The UoA belongs to the 21-strong Mathematics Access Grid Instruction and Collaboration
 consortium; videoconferencing technology provides access to broad and deep
 mathematical training (35 different courses available in 2018/19). PGRs undertake at least
 five such courses during their degree (at least 100 hours of training). PGRs also have the
 opportunity to undertake limited, but supported, teaching tailored to their experience to
 enhance career development. Further UoA activities support PhD students, including the
 round-the-table discussion “How to apply for a postdoc”.
 The postgraduate researcher hub, Westmere (3.2-REF5a), provides interdisciplinary
 development events and leadership opportunities, e.g., via the Westmere Scholarship (held
 by PGR Chloe Spalding). Other support is provided by the Careers Network and the
 University’s Writing School.
 PGR integration into the academic community
 PGRs are supported and mentored to gain experience organising conferences. The UoA
 has hosted the British Early Career Mathematicians’ Colloquium (formerly BYMC) five times
 since 2015, and in 2014 and 2019, hosted the Postgraduate Group Theory Conference. All
 PGRs receive travel funds, typically enabling participation in several (inter)national
 conferences and summer schools. Other internal training activities include an annual
 research poster presentation event.
 International research links for PGRs are developed through several initiatives:
 engagements with the Universities of Auckland and Melbourne via the Universitas 21
 collaboration and knowledge exchange network; ERASMUS exchanges with Umea,
 Sweden; joint-site PhD programmes with Adelaide and Nottingham. The UoA-led Multiscale
 Biology Study Groups (2016, 2017; supported by BBSRC, EPSRC and the Institute of
 Advanced Study, 2.3.1-REF5a), enabled 40 participants, mostly PGR/PDRA, to collaborate
 with international visitors, leading to publications and interdisciplinary exposure.
 We contribute to Doctoral Training Programmes across other disciplines, e.g., rotation
 projects in the Wellcome Trust Mechanisms of Inflammatory Disease (MIDAS) DTP. Co-
 supervision with Leverhulme/Birmingham Institute for Forestry Research, EPSRC Doctoral
 Training Centres in Birmingham (SciPhy4Health, TopDesign) and Warwick
 (MathSys/MOAC), and Bubble Dynamics (Jiangsu University of Science and Technology,
 China) provide interdisciplinary training for both Birmingham and external students.
 PGR monitoring and support
 In addition to weekly meetings, postgraduates have monthly structured reviews with their
 supervisors. Progression is assessed through first-year reports, followed by a second-year
 dissertation. Co-supervisors provide additional academic support and development advice.
 Mentors provide support with issues that may affect their studies. Welfare Officers provide
 specialist pastoral support to PGRs.
 Students have been supported with up to 3 months paid sick leave and, in 2020, eight
 students whose studies were disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic were awarded 1–3-
 month funding extensions. Since 2013, all but three PGRs have successfully
 completed.


 2.7. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The ED&I Committee includes gender and ethnicity-balanced representation, and members
 at every level from undergraduate to professor. The Director of ED&I is on the Executive; all
 members of the Executive are active Committee members. The UoA recently renewed its

                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Athena SWAN Bronze accreditation (2018-22) and is pursuing an action plan to enhance
 ED&I.
 Ensuring equality of opportunity and outcomes
 PDR (Sec.2.1) forms the basis for developmental discussions. Teaching duties are typically
 limited to 50-75 lecture hours for research-active staff, with reduced loads for new starters
 and those returning from parental/adoption leave. Further reductions are made for staff
 holding substantial funding. Similarly the Promotions Committee supports recognition of
 success (Sec.2.5).
 Panels assessing applications for internal funds, training/leadership opportunities, and
 studentships are gender-balanced and all members undergo ED&I training. These
 measures support success in obtaining external funding regardless of protected
 characteristics (Sec.1.2).
 Ten of the (census date) Category A staff are female, with several recent promotions
 (Sec.2.5). In 2018, we appointed our second female professor, Mazzocco, who led
 Loughborough to an Athena SWAN Silver Award, and is a strong advocate for diversity at
 UoA and (via the Senate) Institutional levels. A key goal is to develop best practice in
 support of a Silver application by September 2022.
 In the construction of the REF submission, output reviews were undertaken by a broad
 cross-section of staff across all research groups, each output being read by at least two
 reviewers. In accordance with the University’s REF Code of Practice, and to ensure equity,
 equality and transparency, Output Selection Group members (comprising four senior staff,
 including one female) received compulsory ED&I training and compared the pool of
 available outputs with the outputs selected for submission for consistency and fair
 representation. Internal scoring was monitored for potential biases and to ensure that
 particular output types or research areas were not promoted over others. 15.2% of
 submitted outputs are attributed to members of staff identifying as BAME, 17.4% as female;
 19.3% of submitted staff identify as BAME, 17.5% as female.
 Promoting diversity
 The School has a culture of bringing mathematicians of all levels, from undergraduate to
 staff members, together in an inclusive community. Since 2018, the UoA has hosted
 Women in Mathematics events for female and non-binary staff and students to informally
 discuss experiences, career development and barriers to progression. Similar events for
 BAME staff and students are held on regular basis; Jabbari is academic contact for the
 BAME science students’ society. We organise a range of informal student engagement
 events each term, e.g., Mathematical Musings discussions over coffee.
 We are proud to be part of an institution recognised by Stonewall in 2017 as one of the UK’s
 Top 100 employers for LGBT+ staff. Kelly organised the 2020 LGBT+ STEMinar
 Conference (c. 275 participants). The series showcases the diversity of STEM academics
 and provides role models for LGBT+ scientists who are either at a junior stage in their
 careers or are considering the possibility of going into a STEM field. The conference was
 supported financially by the UoA alongside 13 external sponsors (including the RS, LMS
 and IMA).
 Before staff take parental/adoption leave they discuss with the Head of School
 preferences around flexible working, and duties on return from work. Going beyond
 University-wide policies, a term of study leave is provided following return from maternity
 and significant parental/adoption leave, followed by an additional term of reduced
 administration and teaching. Whilst staff are on leave, keeping-in-touch days provide an
 opportunity to remain engaged in the research environment. Staff returning from leave are
 not asked to teach new modules. Institutional support can be requested to help restart

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research, e.g., to support a collaborator’s visit. To assist with return to work, staff have
 made use of institutional financial support, e.g., funds to support a collaborator’s visit to
 Birmingham (to minimise travel).
 Recognising the range of personal circumstances that staff may encounter, and the range
 of working styles that mathematicians find effective, all staff who have worked at the
 University continuously for 26 weeks may make a flexible working request. This measure
 aims to support staff to organise their research activity in a way that is optimal for them. In
 the 2018 staff survey, only 1 out of 44 respondents disagreed with the statement ‘My line
 manager/supervisor is supportive of requests for flexible working’. The UoA has a policy of
 only organising meetings during core hours.
 ED&I training events are run by both the UoA and Institution. For example, in February
 2019, staff engaged in an unconscious bias workshop as part of a UoA away day. All staff
 are required to have completed a Diversity in the Workplace online module and to undergo
 Unconscious Bias training, thereby enabling recruitment of the best researchers.
 For colleagues with disabilities or health issues, reasonable adjustments are made
 including agreed scheduling of academic activities. Resting rooms are provided for staff with
 health requirements at off-site development events.
 Best practice examples
     -   The UoA was the first in the University to provide gender-neutral toilets in 2017.
     -   Since 2013, weekly term-time coffee mornings have been organised by staff
         volunteers and widely attended by staff and PDRAs. This initiative was highlighted
         by the LMS Good Practice Scheme (Ortus Economic, April 2018).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 Mechanisms to support funding applications
 Support for grant applications is led by senior academics in each theme, working with the
 Grants Director (Osthus) and Director of Research (D. Smith), alongside the Research
 Support Office (Sec.3.3); activities include peer review, sharing examples of successful
 applications, mock interviews, executive coaching, informal ‘drop in’ sessions with senior
 staff, and the College’s Grants Development Series, a twice-yearly programme of
 workshops tailored to individuals. Staff development days include training on grant drafting
 and peer review exercises. We have hosted EPSRC representatives to discuss strategy for
 the mathematical sciences. The UoA provides financial support for proposal development,
 including travel and visitor costs, in addition to PGR scholarship match funding and
 reductions in teaching commitments.
 The University’s European and International Research Support team provides expert
 support for applications to international funders. Recent successes include Kocvara’s EC
 Innovative Training Network for the “POEMA” project, Kühn’s ERC Advanced Grant, ERC
 Starting Grants (Bennett, Kühn, Montgomery, Osthus) and several Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Fellowships. Study leave, internal funding schemes (Sec.4.1), applied and interdisciplinary
 areas, industry interaction, research visits and secondments all provide proven catalysts for
 competitive external grant applications.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Income strategy and outcomes
 The UoA’s staffing strategy to recruit outstanding early-career academics has enabled a focus
 on competitive fellowship and new investigator awards from UK and EU research councils
 (Table 1). This accounts for much of the success in this cycle (208% increase in UK research
 council income and a 313% increase in EU income; moving the UoA from rank 22nd in the
 Russell Group for research council income per FTE in 2014-15 to rank 11th in 2018-19 –
 HESA). Several early-career appointees have already secured support extending into the
 next cycle: Carmesin’s £1M EPSRC Fellowship (until 2025); Kelly’s £1.3M UKRI FLF (until
 2024); Montgomery’s €1.4M ERC Starting Grant (until 2025); Spill’s £1.3M UKRI FLF (until
 2024). Senior staff also have significant ongoing funding: Kühn’s €1.8M ERC Advanced
 Grant (until 2023); Terry’s post-census £1.9M EPSRC Fellowship (until 2026).
 In addition, 8 PDRAs were supported by national and international funding not included in
 the UoA’s research income figures (e.g., Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Swiss
 National Science Foundation, Japan Society for the Promotion of Science).
  HESA Funder          Research       Research       Percentage      Number      Number of
  Type                 Income         Income         increase        of staff    research
                       REF2014        REF2021                        funded      themes
                                                                     (REF        funded
                                                                     2021)       (REF 2021)
  UK research          £2,345,105     £7,218,715     208%            36          7
  councils
  BBSRC                               £388,385                       2           1
  British Academy                     £2,288                         1           1
  EPSRC                               £5,905,161                     32          7
  MRC                                 £272,326                       2           1
  RS                                  £650,555                       3           3
  EU Government        £625,996       £2,587,810     313%            10          6
  bodies
  Other                £350,309       £385,664       10%
  Total research       £3,321,410     £10,192,189    207%
  income
 Table 1: Research income by funder type (REF2014 and REF2021 assessment periods)
 Future income strategy
 1. Increase support at postdoctoral level
 While Early-Career Fellowships have proved a major area of success for the UoA, the
 increased number of PDRAs and PGRs motivates greater support for postdoctoral
 fellowships, enabling the transition to research independence. Montgomery was recently
 appointed as Early-Career Fellowship lead, organising workshops and generating resources
 for sharing successful practice across the UoA. We will further develop our successful
 mechanisms to support New Investigator and Standard Grant awards.
 2. Grow both blue skies and translational research through diversified income
    sources from industry, charity and healthcare
 Recent progress in diversifying income sources for blue skies research includes
 Montenegro-Johnson’s Leverhulme Research Leadership Award (£1M, until 2025) and


                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Montgomery’s Philip Leverhulme Prize (£100K, until 2024).
 Translating mathematical research into clinical and industrial outcomes requires significant
 additional external support. Recent success includes Woldman’s Epilepsy Research UK
 Fellowship (£299K, to 2024) and NIHR Phase 1 and 2 awards (2020) to further grow spin-
 out Neuronostics (not included in income figures). Existing collaborations (e.g., University
 Hospitals Birmingham, Numerical Algorithms Group) together with new expertise in
 Healthcare (Terry, Neuronostics) and Data Science (J. Li) provide the basis to further
 increase engagement with industry, charity and healthcare.
 3. Build on strategic appointments to compete for Centre and Programme Grant
    funding
 The recent appointment of leaders such as Mazzocco and Terry, with concentrated funding
 already in their research areas and a track record of leading major initiatives (e.g., Terry’s
 EPSRC Centre for Predictive Modelling in Healthcare, 2016-21), provides the capability to
 compete for further large-scale strategic investments.


 3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Staff and students undertaking interdisciplinary research benefit from a campus university,
 and nearby University Hospital, Women’s Hospital and Dental School, the geography of
 which enables seamless working. Jabbari and D. Smith supervise researchers undertaking
 experimental work in the Birmingham Women’s Fertility Centre & Centre for Human
 Reproductive Science, School of Biosciences, Institute of Immunology and Immunotherapy,
 and Institute of Inflammation and Ageing. D. Smith’s development of the FAST software for
 diagnosis of male factor infertility was enabled through interaction with the Birmingham
 Women’s Fertility Centre (EPSRC Healthcare Technologies funding), where it is being
 clinically assessed with couples undergoing IVF.
 Institutional infrastructure (4.2.3-REF5a) supports UoA research and collaboration through
 shared laboratory and office space. Facilities include the Centre for Human Brain Health
 (Terry, Jirsa and Woldman’s epilepsy research, plus interactions across Mathematical
 Biology and Combinatorics), BiFoR Free Air Carbon Enrichment (Dyson’s research on plant
 root growth, Petrovskaya’s work on pest spread in forests) and the Healthcare Technologies
 Institute (Spill’s systems mechanobiology experiments; Montenegro-Johnson’s 3D
 bioprinting research).
 Our Turing Fellows regularly use the Turing Institute’s facilities for interdisciplinary
 collaborations. Johnson’s collaborations with ATI-based researchers resulted in seven
 publications on resilient rail networks, networks shaping cooperation and conflict, and
 economic stability. Johnson’s PhD student Mosquera spent two years at the Institute.
 Bespalov’s fellowship stimulated new research in Machine Learning, Data Science and AI,
 resulting in a PGR project and a job in industry, along with workshops and University policy
 development in these areas.
 SMQB provides a key mechanism to support interdisciplinary and translational research
 across mathematics and medicine. SMQB hosts 4 externally funded fellowship holders and
 3 core-funded centre fellows who combine their projects with seed-corn incubator awards.
 The latter is a competitive scheme providing 6 months’ 0.5FTE fellow support, assistance
 with public engagement, artist-in-residence, and industry engagement, in preparation for
 larger external funding bids and subsequent translation; the first projects commenced in
 2020.
 Further strategic development via the recruitment of Jirsa, Director of the Institut de
 Neurosciences des Systèmes, Marseilles, and lead for The Virtual Brain neuroinformatics


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project, is building interdisciplinary links between the UoA and Birmingham’s Centre for
 Human Brain Health.
 Cross-departmental appointments bringing additional vitality to the UoA’s interdisciplinary
 activity include Owen (0.25FTE Mathematics, 0.75FTE Immunology and Immunotherapy).
 His research is in single-molecule cell imaging and associated topological data analysis.
 The University’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS, 2.3.1-REF5a) provides support and
 facilities to tackle timely interdisciplinary challenges. Examples of engagement include D.
 Smith’s, Model Parameterisation in Healthcare and Life Sciences: Extracting Knowledge
 from Data (2017), hosting IAS Fellows (Sec.4.1), and numerous invited talks at IAS
 workshops.


 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Physical and Operational Infrastructure
 Based in the Watson Building (£971K investment this cycle), the UoA is located at the heart
 of campus. All academic staff have single-occupancy offices providing dedicated space to
 meet PGRs and colleagues. The new £60M University library houses group study rooms
 available for research.
 The Research Support Office (located within the Watson Building) provides assistance in
 grant proposal preparation, including drafting, internal peer review, training and mock
 panels. Impact development is supported by Research Planning, International Relations, the
 Public Engagement with Research team, UoB Enterprise, and the UoA’s dedicated Outreach
 Officer.
 Further to the School-wide Colloquium, each research theme has a budget to run regular
 seminars with external speakers, in addition to internal reading groups. Early-career
 researchers receive a research start-up (£5K) and the UoA has committed to establishing a
 travel fund for each member of staff to facilitate research development activity.
 Computing
 All staff and PGRs have free access to resources to support Advanced Research
 Computing through BEAR (Birmingham Environment for Academic Research, 4.5-REF5a).
 The BlueBEAR High Performance Computing facility has 3936-core, 1.3TB RAM Linux
 cluster with 100Gb EDR Infiniband interconnect. BEAR Cloud retains the power of traditional
 HPC but provides accessibility through a range of virtual machines. Following a 2019
 investment in one of the largest IBM POWER9 AI clusters in the UK (10 servers each
 equipped with four NVIDIA Tesla V100 16GB Tensor Core GPUs and dual 18-core
 POWER9 processors; 3 servers for general access and 7 for any life sciences application).
 Kocvara’s group utilised the power of BlueBEAR to solve high-dimensional nonlinear
 optimisation problems in the “Multi-level Methods in Constrained Optimisation” project
 (Fondation Mathématique Jaques Hadamard), underpinning the Impact Case Study
 PENCOR. BEAR enabled numerous outputs and interdisciplinary projects, including Q.
 Wang’s bubble cloud models, D. Smith’s analysis of sperm motility data with Birmingham
 Women’s Hospital, Dyson and Smith’s models of fibre-reinforced fluids, and Petrovskaya’s
 computational modelling of pesticide usage.
 From 2021, the University will host Baskerville, a £4M EPSRC Tier-2 regional HPC centre
 with 184 NVIDIA A100 Tensor Core GPUs. These facilities will provide an outstanding
 platform for data science and deep learning applications, in particular for the Optimisation,
 Statistics and Numerical Analysis group. Researchers also benefit from Birmingham’s
 involvement with regional facilities, including Midlands Plus (2017-21) and the forthcoming
 Sulis ensemble computing facility (2020-24).

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.4 Benefits-in-kind
 Collaborations with experimental groups, industry and the NHS provide substantial in-kind
 support. Q. Wang’s collaborations with Jiangsu University of Science and Technology and
 Nanyang Technological University enable access to data on free surface flow problems.
 These data underpin at least 15 outputs, including Wang’s highly cited 2015 J. Fluid Mech.
 paper describing the influence of buoyancy effects on bubble collapse. Shikhmurzaev
 secured experimental data valued at £800K from Schlumberger Gould Research. This
 contributed to a further £445K in EPSRC funding and will underpin research over the next 5
 years. Montenegro-Johnson’s experimental research on the mechanics of touch sensation
 and touch-virtual reality is supported by state-of-the-art haptic sensing equipment from
 Ultraleap and Actronika.
 D. Smith benefits from data and staff time from the Centre for Human Reproductive
 Science, Birmingham Women’s Hospital (with additional equipment from Hamilton-Thorne
 Inc.) and University Hospitals Birmingham. Jabbari’s collaboration with University of Texas
 Southwestern Medical Centre generated data on antiadhesion molecule effects on bacterial
 infection, leading to two PLoS Comp. Biol. papers (2018, 2019). Dyson’s collaboration with
 UCLA recently led to an extended joint-funded visit for a member of her team to generate
 data on plant cell growth. Kocvara’s PENLAB software for linear and nonlinear semidefinite
 optimisation benefited from staff time for code development by the Numerical Algorithms
 Group Oxford, resulting in an official open-source NAG-sponsored product.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaborations and supporting arrangements
 Departmental and institutional awards (e.g., a College Travel Fund of £1000 p.a. per staff
 member) support international collaborations. Several competitive internally administered
 funds are also available to facilitate collaboration:
     -   Wellcome Trust’s Institutional Strategic Support Fund: 35 (inter)national participants
         (from Mathematical Biology, Computer Science, Bioengineering, Statistics,
         Biosciences and industry) attended the workshop Model Parameter Estimation for
         Predictive Medicine organised by Jabbari. Five Birmingham-led interdisciplinary
         publications resulted (in PLoS Comp Biol.; Interface; mBIO; Frontiers in
         Microbiology), evidencing the benefits of reliable mathematical modelling in
         medicine, with applications to the current global challenge of tackling antimicrobial
         resistance.
     -   Institute for Advanced Studies (2.3.1-REF5a): Professor Gernot Stroth (Halle), a
         leading algebraist, acclaimed for his incisive contributions to the finite simple group
         classification, was supported to collaborate with Parker and colleagues in Algebra,
         leading to Parker and Stroth's monograph (submitted, Memoirs AMS).
     -   BRIDGE Seed Fund: Providing investment to grow the strategic partnership
         between Birmingham and UIUC (2.1.8-REF5a). This fund facilitated two-way visits
         in Combinatorics (Lo, Mycroft, Treglown). Treglown and co-authors Professors
         Jozsef Balogh and Alexandr Kostochka (UIUC) received funding for “Building
         Bridges in Mathematics”, resulting in five major publications, including the resolution
         of a longstanding question of Cameron and Erdős at the interface of Combinatorics
         and Number theory (JEMS 2018) and underpinning Treglown’s EPSRC Fellowship.
         In all, 10 publications have resulted from BRIDGE activities.
 All themes have initiated wide-ranging and dynamic international collaborations, from

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individual interactions to institutional joint ventures and multi-institution networks. Of the
 selected outputs, 75% involved collaboration with at least one other institution, 56% with an
 international collaborator, and 17% with another discipline. Below we give examples of
 collaborations in which staff have taken leading roles generating research ideas, funding
 proposals, and associated outputs.
 A notable example in Analysis is the solution to the longstanding nonlinear Brascamp-Lieb
 problem (Duke 2020) in a collaboration with Bez (Saitama, Japan), Cowling (New South
 Wales), Bennett, and Birmingham PDRAs Buschenhenke (from Kiel) and Flock (from
 Berkeley). This work, funded by the ERC, JSPS and ARC, is the culmination of a decade-
 long Birmingham-led collaboration in multilinear harmonic analysis. Another highlight is the
 resolution of a twenty-five-year-old conjecture of Sarason by Reguera with Aleman and Pott,
 funded by a Marie Curie grant, joint with Lund University. Other examples of major
 collaborative projects involve Barcelona, Edinburgh, Missouri, Scuola Normale Superiore di
 Pisa, Seoul National University and Warwick.
 In Combinatorics, Probability and Algorithms, Montgomery’s collaboration with
 Pokrovskiy (Birkbeck) and Sudakov (ETH Zurich) led to the award of the 2019 European
 Prize in Combinatorics. Long-term visits hosted by Kühn and Osthus, funded by the Swiss
 National Science foundation (Kupavskii, Princeton IAS), Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
 (Joos, Hamburg) and Sao Paulo Research foundation (Jie Han, Rhode Island), all led to
 joint papers. Kühn and Osthus were recognised for their fundamental contributions to
 research through the LMS Whitehead Prize in 2014, and the RS Wolfson Research Merit
 Award (Kühn 2015).
 A key collaboration in Geometry and Mathematical Physics with the University of Alberta
 (Favero - Canada Research Chair; Doran - former Site Director of the Pacific Institute of
 Mathematical Sciences) led to seven co-authored papers with Kelly, including the proof
 (Amer. J. Math. 2017) of a ten-year-old conjecture of Batyrev and Nill. A further highlight
 was a Leverhulme Trust-funded visit by Joshi (Vice President IMU) to work with Mazzocco.
 In Algebra, Craven with Dudas (CNRS) and Rouquier (UCLA) determined the Brauer tree
 for unipotent blocks of groups of Lie type (JEMS). With Oliver (Paris) and Semeraro
 (Leicester), Craven classified reduced fusion systems over p-groups with abelian subgroups
 of index p (Adv. Math.). With Brundan (Oregon), Goodwin exploited the Whittaker
 coinvariants functor for general linear Lie superalgebra to obtain important consequences in
 their representation theory (Adv. Math.). A further major success is Shpectorov’s
 collaboration with Hall (Michigan), introducing axial algebras (Sec.1.3).
 Active collaborations in Topology and Dynamical Systems include Baker’s work with
 Alcaraz-Barrera (San Luis Potosi, Mexico) and Kong (Chongqing University, China),
 resolving several open problems of Erdős on base q expansions (Trans. Amer. Math. Soc.
 2019). Good hosted Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellow Meddaugh (Baylor). Their work
 characterising shadowing in dynamical systems in terms of shifts of finite type is a
 significant breakthrough in the field (Inventiones 2020; 19 citations as of March 2021).
 Bespalov’s recruitment (2013) to Numerical Analysis enabled an EPSRC-funded
 collaboration with Silvester and Powell (Manchester) on PDE problems stemming from
 uncertainty quantification. Petrovskaya’s UoA-supported impact acceleration project is in
 collaboration with Harper Adams University.
 A key theme in Mathematical Optimisation is Kocvara’s PENNON algorithm for conic
 optimisation (Sec.1.1), the PENLAB open-source software developed with NAG, and
 Impact Case Study PENCOR, developed with Stingl (Erlangen) and Allianz. To date,
 PENLAB has registered more than 1900 downloads worldwide. In addition, the Horizon
 2020 MSCA-ITN project POEMA targets new approaches to polynomial optimisation
 (Birmingham PI Kocvara, €4M, 10 EU Universities and 4 industrial partners). Two joint

                                                                                         Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research projects (EPSRC and FMJH-PGMO) with STFC-RAL, Namur and Toulouse focus
 on multilevel methods for very-large scale optimisation.
 In addition to local collaborations in Mathematical Biology and Healthcare/SMQB and
 emerging links with Marseille (Sec.3.2), D. Smith’s collaboration with Susana Lopes (Lisbon
 Medical School) led to an invited Annual Review of Fluid Mechanics paper. Montenegro-
 Johnson collaborates with SMEs Actronika, Ultrahaptics (Horizon 2020) and Cellink. Jabbari
 works with Krachler (McGovern Medical School, Texas), and Dyson has a long-standing
 collaboration with Nottingham’s Centre for Plant Integrative Biology (e.g., Nature Plants
 2017). The group is the leading node in the Biologically Active Fluids SIG of the EPSRC UK
 Fluids Network, co-organising workshops since 2017, developing online resources and
 hosting an international seminar series during the Covid pandemic.
 In Nonlinear Systems and Continuum Mechanics, the group’s recognised leadership in
 Bubble Dynamics and Free Surface flows is exemplified by Q. Wang’s collaborations with
 Chinese experimental groups (Sec.3.4) and his EPSRC-funded research with Walmsley
 (Dentistry, Birmingham) on ultrasonic cleaning of dental appliances. Other key examples
 include Shikhmurzaev and Petrovskaya’s EPSRC-funded project with Schlumberger Gould
 Research (Cambridge) on oil recovery and Shikhmurzaev’s work-package leadership of a
 Programme Grant on developing a new generation of additive manufacturing processes
 with the Centre for Advanced Manufacturing (Nottingham), University of Warwick and eight
 industrial partners. Tzella led two EPSRC network-funded workshops (Birmingham and
 Warwick) and Uddin has undertaken KAUST-funded visits and joint-PhD supervision with
 Thoroddsen.
 Nearly 150 papers have been published this cycle with co-authors from other disciplines,
 internal and external to the University, by 20 colleagues from both Pure and Applied
 themes. These collaborations encompass around 10 different academic disciplines and
 sub-fields. In addition to more conventional mathematics journals, staff publish in a broad
 range of interdisciplinary journals (e.g., PNAS, Nature Communications, Physics of Life
 Reviews) and subject-specific journals (e.g., Nature Plants, Developmental Cell, ACS
 Synthetic Biology, Insects, mBIO, Ocean Engineering, PLoS Pathogens, Human
 Reproduction, Respirology, Ultrasonics).


 4.2 Interactions with wider society and industry
 In addition to the industrial links mentioned in Sections 1.2, 2.1 and 4.1, the UoA’s
 interdisciplinary activities extend more widely; examples include, Actronika, Ultrahaptics,
 Linear Diagnostics Ltd, Esmart Systems, Hamilton-Thorne, Procter and Gamble.
 A key focus is the integration of mathematical modelling and experimental work. D. Smith,
 Jabbari’s and Spill’s groups involve PDRAs working extensively in both wet laboratory
 biology alongside mathematics, enabling an ideal cycle of “models informing laboratory
 work informing models”. Terry and Woldman apply their models extensively to clinical EEG
 data.
 Our Public Engagement Team, established during this cycle, is developing broad societal
 interactions. Montenegro-Johnson, Jabbari and PDRAs Cupples and Gallagher developed a
 permanent interactive exhibit at Birmingham Thinktank. This explores how soft microscale
 robots may be used to treat illnesses, using a remote-controlled robot and a playable video
 game to bring the theme’s research to life. The exhibit combines Montenegro-Johnson's
 work on soft, transforming microbots (EPSRC Bright Ideas grant) with Jabbari's work on
 Antimicrobial Resistance (BBSRC grant), and Gallagher’s research on sperm motility
 imaging. The project represents a unique example of researcher-undergraduate interaction,
 as the videogame was developed by the University Game Development Society. Terry’s


                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 establishment of SMQB brings a two-way dimension to public engagement with
 mathematical biology and healthcare research, building on his success with ‘Beyond My
 Control’, a theatre production to explore life with epilepsy and the impact that research can
 have. For example, supported by a SMQB seed-corn grant, D. Smith and Gallagher work
 with artist Vicky Roden to develop exhibits about patient experiences with hyperthyroidism
 and translational mathematics research.
 The flagship Birmingham Popular Maths Lecture Series showcases the UoA’s activity (13
 Category A staff gave lectures this cycle), in addition to outstanding external presenters
 (e.g. Nira Chamberlain, Martin Hairer, Jennifer Rogers). Wider advertising (e.g. to 620
 schools/sixth forms) has resulted in larger general public audiences (an average of 206 in
 2020/21 per lecture compared to 56 in 2013/14). In 2020 Kombrink gave a public talk,
 broadcast live across China. Goodwin was an LMS Holgate Lecturer (2016-19). To give a
 representative sample, excluding popular lectures, our staff reached 2,584 UK 12-18 year-
 olds in the period Feb. 2019-Jan. 2020.
 Looking ahead, we are also developing exhibits for The Exchange - a £40M University
 investment for showcasing research located in the city centre (4.2.2-REF5a) - and the
 Commonwealth Games Cultural Programme. Other potential exhibits include VR
 visualisation of modelling of plant root growth (Dyson).
 Recognising the opportunities provided by social media, we have produced videos for
 Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn showing academic staff talking about their
 research and its impact. For example, during Mathematics and Statistics Awareness Month
 2019, academics and PDRAs from different stages of their careers were filmed talking about
 their research.
 Engagement with external organisations includes Good and Jabbari’s regular invitations to
 talk at The Training Partnership’s national Maths in Action Days, reaching several hundred
 Sixth Formers at each event. Following a Birmingham City Council campaign for
 nominations from the public, Jabbari was selected for inclusion in a book about 30
 inspirational women of Birmingham. Montenegro-Johnson is the lead scientific advisor for a
 Jonathan Hopkins sci-fi film (currently at screenplay phase). Craven has collaborated on
 several newspaper articles including a piece in The Guardian exposing statistical flaws in
 the Government’s use of healthcare data. Craven and Goodwin have been interviewed by
 the BBC (additionally ITV and Sky News for Goodwin) on statistics related to Parliamentary
 elections and the National Lottery, respectively.


 4.3 Conferences and research events
 The UoA has fostered a culture of organising leading research events, including those led
 by PGRs (Sec.2.6). In 2015, we hosted the LMS-EMS mathematical weekend to celebrate
 their 150th and 25th anniversaries. Annually, we host a range of workshops and conferences,
 for example Groups St Andrews (2017) and the 27th British Combinatorial Conference
 (2019), which are the leading UK-based conferences in their respective fields. Events such
 as the BBSRC/EPSRC Multiscale Biology Study Groups (Sec.2.6), actively promote the
 formation of new collaborations, and have led to several outputs, including novel
 approaches to estimate Palaeolithic temperatures (Clim. Past. 2020), and to quantify
 glycocalyx function (Phys. Rev. Fluids 2020). Other significant events include the biennial
 IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimization (2014, 2016, 2018); the
 LGBT+ STEMinar 2020 (Sec.2.7); and the EPSRC AIM-style workshop in harmonic analysis
 (2019).
 Colleagues have led several external scientific programmes including the 2017 ICMS
 conference “Harmonic Analysis and its Interactions” (Bennett). Speakers included Larry


                                                                                         Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Guth, Malabika Pramanik, Elias Stein and Terence Tao. Goodwin led the 2014 ICMS
 conference on Algebraic Lie Theory. Speakers included Vera Serganova, Catharina
 Stroppel and Wolfgang Soergel.
 Researchers across the UoA regularly receive invitations to speak at major conferences and
 events. Highlights include invited lectures at the 2014 International Congress of
 Mathematicians (Osthus and Kühn), an invited talk at CANADAM 2019 to c.400 participants
 (Carmesin) and invited talks at the British Mathematics Colloquium (Bennett, 2018; Kühn,
 2014; and Mazzocco, 2018). There has been significant growth in the number of invitations
 to leading mathematical research centres, such as BIRS-Banff, MSRI and Oberwolfach (at
 least 20 researchers across the UoA).


 4.4 Open access and editorship
 The UoA has increased its representation on editorial boards for internationally leading
 general mathematics and specialist journals: Beitraege zur Algebra und Geometrie
 (Craven); Bulletin and Journal of the London Mathematical Society (Bennett, Craven and
 Maleva); Combinatorica (Kühn); Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems (J. Li);
 Discrete Mathematics (Carmesin, Osthus); Electronic Journal of Linear Algebra (diamond
 OA; Sergeev); International Journal of Computer Mathematics (Németh); International
 Journal for Uncertainty Quantification (J. Li); Journal of Combinatorial Designs (Kühn);
 Journal of Combinatorial Theory A (Kühn); Journal of Group Theory (Parker); Journal of
 Hydrodynamics (Q Wang); Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications (Németh);
 Mathematika (Bennett); Optimization Methods and Software (Kocvara); Quarterly Journal of
 Mathematics (Bennett); Proceedings of the Royal Society Edinburgh A (Gutierrez); SIAM
 Journal on Discrete Mathematics (Kühn); Transactions of LMS (gold OA; Craven, Maleva).
 Kühn is a founding editor of the new diamond open access journal Advances in
 Combinatorics which aims to be the leading journal in the area.


 4.5 Citizenship
 Members of the UoA have roles in various mathematical and learned societies:
        British Combinatorial Committee: Mycroft (2017-19); Treglown.
        European Mathematical Society: Mazzocco (Council).
        Heilbronn Institute: Kühn (Advisory Board, 2015-18).
        Isaac Newton Institute: Dyson (Scientific Advisory Panel for the Newton Gateway to
         Mathematics).
        IMA: Grove (Honorary Secretary, Education; Executive Committee; Council):
         Mazzocco (Research Committee); D. Smith (West Midlands vice-chair).
        International Centre for Mathematical Sciences: Mazzocco (Advisory Board).
        LMS: Bennett (Prize Committee, 2020/21); Kelly (Women in Mathematics
         Committee); Kühn (Prize Committee, 2018/19); Mazzocco (Nominating Committee);
         Parker (Chair of Early Career Committee and a Regional Organiser); Petrovskaya
         (Society Lectures and Meetings Committee).
        Real Sociedad Mathematics Espanola: Reguera (Secretary of International
         Relations).
        RS: Craven and Goodwin (International Exchanges); Dyson (Newton International
         Fellowships).


                                                                                      Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Shpectorov is an Athena Swan and Race Equality Charter panel member, and LMS
 Mentoring African Research in Mathematics grant holder (2016-18) with Bernardo
 Rodrigues (QwaZulu-Natal); activities have included running a summer school in Durban
 (2018) and joint PGR supervision.
 Eight staff are EPSRC College members; senior colleagues regularly serve on EPSRC
 panels, and Terry was a member of the Healthcare Technologies Strategic Advisory Team
 until 2020. Birmingham has been represented every year (except 2014) on Mathematics
 Prioritisation or Fellowship panels in the current cycle. Kühn was an author of the 2016
 EPSRC Combinatorics landscape document.




                                                                                    Page 24
