Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 21 – Sociology
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Sociology Unit comprises a multi-disciplinary team of 32 (29.85FTE) researchers from three
 departments across the University of Roehampton, united by a sociological approach to exploring
 inequalities, prejudice and social trends as they relate to social justice in diverse societies. In 2014,
 our aims and objectives were to (1) develop our inclusive interdisciplinary research on social
 justice; (2) create a vibrant and inclusive research environment for staff and research students,
 including increased levels of staffing in targeted areas and; (3) develop significant collaborations
 with external organisations. Since then, we have cultivated a thriving and diverse interdisciplinary
 research community. Through the targeted recruitment of 20 new appointments (including five
 professors and five early career researchers), and the integration of researchers in social
 anthropology, we have grown the Unit significantly, from just 11.45FTE staff in REF2014. We have
 also proactively supported staff to expand their work on social justice, which has found expression
 in 30 monographs and 147 journal articles since 2014; and catalysed and sustained an array of
 exciting collaborations and partnerships with institutions such as Parliament, the
 Immigration/Borders agency, the probation service, and the Crown Prosecution Service, which
 have extended the reach of our research and its impact. Our significant expansion has energised
 the Unit, bringing a thematic breadth which has been consolidated into four key themes:
 citizenship, migration and rights; personal life, sexuality and identity; social and political crime and
 violence; and health policies, illness and well-being. It has also enabled us to enact and deliver an
 increasingly ambitious research strategy focused on research income, and the growth and
 integration of our PGR community.

 Citizenship, migration and rights: Our research focuses on issues relating to the socio-legal
 framework which influences citizenship and migration, examined from sociological, political and
 socio-legal perspectives. Hoskins’ quantitative research on citizenship education has been
 adopted to assess the effectiveness of education interventions aimed at increasing young people’s
 involvement across Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. Bassel’s research explores the
 politics of listening and the ways in which naturalisation processes are experienced by migrants
 applying to be British citizens, whilst Garapich investigates the social and cultural aspects of
 migration and the city. Both complement longstanding research in the Unit conducted by Eade on
 the anthropology of pilgrimage, global migration and urban ethnicity. Understanding of human
 rights is interrogated by O’Byrne’s sociological research on citizens’ fundamental rights, and
 Gilbert’s work on how human rights can support more participatory models for citizens in the
 governance of natural resources. O’Byrne also leads the Crucible Centre for Human Rights
 Research. New research in the Unit extends beyond citizens’ rights to those of animals, and to the
 potential conflict between the rights and freedoms of humans and non-humans. Pepper explores
 the place of animal ethics and interspecies justice in a global context, while Marvin advances a
 socio-anthropological understanding of the cultural and political configurations of wild animals in
 different societies. Praet also explores interchanges between culture and nature, and the ways in
 which the lines between the two are resolved. Work on law and the social impact of technology
 led by Sampani (international and commercial law) and Lin (digital co-production cultures and
 their socio-technical dynamics) focuses on the movement of goods, people and data and the
 resulting rights and disputes.

 Diversity and personal life: Our focus on social justice intersects with the key demographics of
 gender, ethnicity, and sexuality. Drawing on a range of qualitative methodologies, work in this area
 explores everyday personal experiences within broader social structures and cultural trends.
 Bassel explores how women of colour use race, class, gender, and legal status as resources for
 collective action across six countries in Europe as part of her ‘Women of Colour Resist’ project
 funded by the Open Society Foundation; Du Rose considers the impact of drug policies on the
 lived experiences and social exclusion of women drug users and Carter focuses on ‘romance
 scam' crime, offering a sociological analysis in an area that has received little empirical attention.
 A shared interest in gender and sexuality characterises the work of Nirta, who adopts an
 interdisciplinary approach to consider trans peoples’ identities and the everyday challenges trans

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 people face, including the impact of social policy and legislation, and McCormack’s work on both
 the everyday consumption of pornography by young men with non-exclusive sexualities.
 Ammaturo also focuses on sexuality, including the dominance of the city in sexualities research
 and a visual ethnography of Pride Parades aimed at understanding space and place in queer
 movements.

 Social and political crime and violence: We explore socio-legal, cultural and ethical approaches to
 violence from the local to global levels, notably focusing on the impact of violence on under-
 represented groups. Our work in this field is well-represented by Gill’s policy-oriented research on
 violence against women in ethnic minority communities and honour-based killings, which has
 influenced policy and practice nationally. Holt’s research on family violence, which pioneers
 understanding of the under-represented topic of child violence toward parents, has also informed
 national policy. Crime and punishment are explored through Farrant’s examination of media
 representations and counter-narratives of imprisonment, and Watkins’ investigation of the
 punishment system of young convicts sent to Australia in the socio-legal context of the early
 nineteenth century. Our research on violence also extends to international and interdisciplinary
 projects. Stefanska-Hodge examines violent sexual and nonsexual offending, particularly
 focusing on the subject of sexual homicide and related topics such as sadism, stalking and intimate
 partner killings. Shaw published a fully revised edition of his classic award-winning What is
 Genocide? (2015), which has contributed to our strengthened sociological presence in genocide
 studies. Geva offers an innovative sociological analysis of military commanders’ understanding of
 the rules of armed conflicts in Israel/Palestine and post-conflict research is advanced by Melvin's
 in-depth analysis of post-genocide reconciliation in Rwanda and Skinner’s work exploring the
 connection between tourism and terrorism. Botoeva focuses on illegal drug markets,
 neoliberalisation and crime, particularly in post-Soviet countries and Kerr’s research examines art
 and cultural heritage crimes and international policing, including the securitisation and policing of
 art theft in London.

 Health policies, illness and well-being: Our research also draws together social, cultural and
 biological perspectives on physical health and mental well-being. Bell’s examination of health as
 a core cultural value has focused primarily on smoking, especially tobacco ‘denormalization’
 strategies, and cancer. Public and community health is explored by Beckmann's work on the
 intersections of sexuality, health, and wellbeing, particularly in Muslim communities and in East
 Africa. Pringle's research adds an historical dimension, and has focused on the history of
 psychiatry in Africa, while her current project, funded by the Guggenheim Foundation, examines
 the ways in which the mental health effects of political violence have become an international
 priority. This area of work is complemented by Rowold’s expertise on the history of medicine and
 science, women’s and gender history, and the history of infancy and childhood. Skinner also
 explores the relationship between dance and health, especially among older adults, whilst
 Groarke applies professional experience and knowledge of psychotherapy to social issues and
 welfare policy.

 Interdisciplinary Research
 We have embedded an interdisciplinary ethos across our four research themes that sees staff
 from different disciplines (sociology, criminology, law, anthropology, international relations,
 politics, psychosocial studies, history) developing a co-ordinated approach to understanding
 diverse aspects of social justice. Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Lead (Gilbert)
 participates in a University-wide forum, that facilitates the management of researchers who sit in
 different departments to their research unit, and which also supports interdisciplinary collaboration.
 We actively promote interdisciplinary approaches to research from the level of the individual
 through to large-scale collaborative and multidisciplinary projects. For example, Nirta addresses
 the problem of normativity as it pertains to gender from a range of theoretical perspectives,
 including critical legal theory, social theory, philosophy, political science and feminist theory, whilst
 Groarke’s work combines social theory with the history and philosophy of psychoanalysis and
 allied mental health disciplines. Their work has been supported through cross-departmental peer-
 based mentoring, and Groarke has also had his work peer-reviewed outside of unit structures. To


                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 foster our interdisciplinary work within and across Units, we regularly invite external speakers
 working across disciplinary boundaries to contribute to our research seminar series.

 Our major successes in interdisciplinary research have been achieved through support for
 multidisciplinary bidding and impact via the allocation of seed-funding, and we actively promote
 cross-disciplinary supervisory teams for doctoral students to stimulate a new generation of
 interdisciplinary scholars. Marvin brought his expertise in human-animal studies to a number of
 major projects which have also been supported through institutional match-funded studentships.
 He was Co-I on the major trans-disciplinary consortium project ‘Cultural and Scientific Perceptions
 of Human-Chicken Interactions' (AHRC £106,487 [total: £1,576,505], 2014), which brought
 together an international group of researchers from archaeology, genetics, anthropology, biology,
 and philosophy to examine the social, cultural and environmental significance of this under-
 researched species. His two subsequent projects involved a similarly inter- and multi-disciplinary
 approach. 'Going Places: Empowering Women, Enhancing Heritage and Increasing Chicken
 Production in Ethiopia' (AHRC, £50,697 [total: £224,960], 2016), sought to empower women and
 ensure their centrality in the future development of Ethiopia's poultry industry, whilst 'From "Feed
 the Birds" to "Do Not Feed the Animals"' (Wellcome Trust, £276,268 [total: £477,324], 2020), which
 includes experts in the fields of zooarchaeology, environmental geochemistry, health and rural
 policy, feline osteology and comparative pathology, will explore the extent to which animal
 domestication was driven by animal feeding, and the consequences of this for global
 human-animal-environmental health. These projects have provided models for
 interdisciplinary collaboration within the Unit and across the institution. Gilbert has led an
 interdisciplinary (law, anthropology, sociology) and multi-country comparative research project to
 measure the impact of litigation in supporting indigenous peoples’ land rights (Open Society
 Justice Initiative, 2018). He is also the PI (2021-) on an AHRC interdisciplinary project on the rights
 of Nature, which includes ecologists at the University. In the coming period we will continue to
 pump-prime and develop opportunities for intra and inter-unit collaboration to enhance our
 interdisciplinary research.

 Approach to Research Impact
 The Unit’s commitment to social justice places impact at the heart of our interdisciplinary research
 culture. We actively seek to develop and engage networks of collaborators who align with our
 mission to shape our research and its outcomes, and to ensure its practical implications for both
 policy and practice. Our success in achieving this has been underpinned by targeted support for
 established research staff and ECRs to develop public-facing projects and pathways to impact.
 Projects are identified through our research mentoring system, supported by pump-priming funds
 to develop and extend their reach and enhanced by central resources, including dedicated
 professional services support, an example being the ways in which both Gill and Holt have been
 supported with funds to bring policy makers and practitioners together through workshops.
 Similarly, Gill, Gilbert, Holt, and Hoskins have benefitted from support in dissemination and
 evaluation from a dedicated Research Impact Officer. Evidence of the success of our impact
 mechanisms can be seen in our wide-ranging collaborations with our key research user groups,
 who consist of policymakers, public sector organisations and NGOs.

 Our approach to impact also continues to build on our successful foundational work in developing
 an array of collaborative relationships. For example, Holt’s research on adolescent family violence
 has produced a set of recommendations used by policymakers in the UK Government’s Home
 Office. The Government’s guidance on adolescent-to-parent violence and abuse was co-written
 by Holt, including its recommendations for practice. Holt’s recommendations have also helped to
 improve the design and practice of family interventions, both in the UK and in the USA through the
 training of practitioners and the development of risk assessment tools. Kerr’s work on the policing
 of art theft has been cited by UNESCO and he has attended the Cultural Heritage All-Party
 Parliamentary Group Meetings as an invited guest since 2016. Our research has also targeted
 international policymakers, from Skinner working with government in Anguilla to amend existing
 legislation ensuring legal protection in perpetuity of the island’s sea turtle populations to
 Beckmann contributing to the building of a new national digital health platform to improve
 maternity services in Zanzibar.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our approach to impact is exemplified by our Impact Case Studies, led by Hoskins, Gill and
 Gilbert. Hoskins' activities include her contribution as evaluator for the UK Cabinet Office Review
 of the Balance of Competencies between the UK and EU on education, vocational training and
 youth (2014), her participation in the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Citizenship Education
 (2017) and her submission of evidence to the select Committee on Citizenship and Civic
 Engagement (2017). Gill’s work on violence against women has had a significant impact,
 developed and sustained through police advisory networks/agencies and through collaboration
 with the Immigration/Borders agency, the probation service, and the Crown Prosecution Service.
 Her work has been further disseminated in collaboration with more specialised agencies in the
 criminal justice arena including: the Metropolitan Police working group on ‘honour’ killings; the
 forced marriage steering group based at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office; the ‘End Violence
 Against Women’ Coalition; the Independent Police Complaints Commission strategic support
 group on investigations and complaints involving gendered forms of violence against women in
 the UK (including domestic violence); Liberty's Project Advisory Group, and Kurdish Women's
 Rights Watch. Gilbert was an invited expert during the negotiations that led to the adoption of the
 UN Declaration on the Rights of Peasants (2018), and to support for the development of new
 interpretative norms on land rights by the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
 (2015-20).

 Open Research
 Since 2014 we have made significant steps towards fostering a more open research environment
 and our Unit now actively shapes developments in this field. Bell is an Executive Committee
 member of Libraria, a collective of social sciences researchers who seek to forge a more open
 scholarly communication system through consultancy and advocacy. She writes on OA and the
 restructuring of scholarly publishing models as well as on the topic of predatory publishing. She
 also produces 'Open Questions', a newsletter for the Unit’s staff on Open Research, that has
 provided information on copyright, OA repositories and Plan S. Our staff are fully engaged with
 the statutory requirements of an open research environment, and in 2019/20 our outputs achieved
 93% compliance with the REF open access policy. We are also committed to ensuring open data
 where this is feasible and ethically appropriate, one example being Garapich’s (with Drinkwater,
 Business) collaboration in a project on temporary migration funded by NORFACE, where survey
 data has been made openly accessible on the Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research,
 Data and Methods (WISERD) website. We are also committed to engaging with a diverse range
 of audiences through making our research and its data as widely accessible as possible, as is the
 case with the findings of Holt's 'Investigating experiences of violence towards grandparents in a
 kinship      context'   project     which     was      shared     via     a    dedicated    website
 (violenceagainstgrandparents.co.uk) and a podcast with representatives of key stakeholders and
 members of the advisory board (Grandparents Plus, CoramBAAF, Youth Justice Board). We raise
 the profile of key research findings in the media, and colleagues from the Unit have contributed to
 520 articles in a range of national and international publications including The Telegraph, Eastern
 Eye, The Independent, Sky News, LBC, BBC Radio 4, Guardian Online, VICE Magazine, The New
 York Times Online, and The Economist, in addition to a range of local publications across the UK.

 Research integrity
 We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of research integrity and rigour. Our
 governance in these areas is informed by the University of Roehampton Ethics Guidelines and the
 Code of Good Research Practice and Research Integrity in accordance with the revised
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (Universities UK, 2019). Our approach is distinguished
 by its commitment to moving beyond procedural ethics to the instilling of a culture of ethics and
 integrity. Ethics review is carried out at the departmental level by Gill as the Research Ethics
 Committee representative, in conjunction with a pool of authorised departmental reviewers. This
 review process takes the form of a dialogue between the applicant and the reviewer, facilitating a
 view of ethics as a critical, reflexive faculty. The University’s Research Integrity and Ethics
 Committee has been chaired by Marvin, who will be succeeded by Bell (May 2021). All staff and
 PGRs have access to training in research ethics and Good Research Practice and PGR student


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research is subject to the same rigorous scrutiny as that of staff, with training provided for students
 and supervisors through the Graduate School.

 Future Research, Impact and Knowledge Exchange Strategy
 Over the next five years our fundamental commitment to social justice will continue to underpin
 our research and impact strategy. The expansion of our research leadership, and particularly the
 professoriate, along with the growth in our research capacities through ECR and mid-career
 recruitment, provides the foundations for the Unit to consolidate its research culture across our
 four key themes, and to build an international profile for interdisciplinary research. We will continue
 to develop research that advances a socially just society by:

    1) Promoting multi- and interdisciplinary dialogue and a collaborative research culture, with a
       view to significantly increasing external investments in our research, and to publishing
       high-quality research outputs, with a focus on monographs and articles in leading journals.
    2) Growing our PGR community by attracting and supporting outstanding students through
       funded opportunities. In particular, we will expand our use of match-funding strategically
       important grant capture through PGR studentships, whilst also developing a pipeline of
       prospective PhD students to take advantage of our interdisciplinary participation in AHRC
       and ESRC Doctoral Training Partnerships. We will also develop models for part-time and
       remote learning PhD study to support the further development of research capacities in
       ODA-recipient nations.
    3) Supporting inclusive practices at all career stages, whilst providing targeted interventions
       at the PGR and ECR stage to support candidates from underrepresented groups for
       scholarships and post-doctoral employment.
       Expanding our rich range of innovative collaborations with external institutions, including
       public sector organisations and international and governmental agencies. We will identify
       and develop new models of working and support to realise these ambitions, including
       support for the transition of researchers and professionals and their ideas between sectors.

 2. People

 Our key aims at the time of REF2014 were to expand our staff base, consolidate our expertise
 across the field of social justice, and cultivate new lines of interdisciplinary research. We have
 realised these through the implementation of a proactive recruitment strategy designed to attract
 excellent researchers (with focused recruitment in research leadership, and a concomitant
 expansion of ECRs) on the one hand, and a significant investment in research support and career
 development on the other.

 Staff Recruitment and Progression
 Our recruitment strategy has been integral to our development since 2014, and our expansion has
 been managed to ensure financial sustainability, whilst remaining focused on our core research
 and impact priorities. We have invested in six new research leadership positions since 2014,
 including Bassel, Hoskins, Gilbert, McCormack and Bell (Professorships), and Holt
 (Readership) and in each case we have focused on recruiting aspirant research leaders with a
 track record of producing high-quality, long-form publications and research income. Our intention
 has been to build robust leadership aligned to our research focus on social justice, whilst adding
 complementary skills and opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration to our team. Investment
 in research leadership has been matched by a further 9 appointments at the Lecturer/Senior
 Lecturer level, with a view to succession planning, including Ammaturo, Botoeva, Carter, Lin,
 Melvin, Pringle, Rowold, Sampani and Skinner. A further five ECR Lecturer/Senior Lecturers
 (Geva, Nirta, Pepper, Stefanska-Hodge and Watkins) have been recruited. All new staff are
 supported through their probationary period with clear objectives in relation to research, and
 additional workload allocations to support their integration in the Unit. Meetings with research
 mentors and line managers support probation and annual appraisals, which offer structured
 opportunities to discuss career development and resources to support it. The expansion of our
 Unit has been supported by gender parity in professorial and leadership roles (three of five
 Professors appointed since 2014 are women, and Farrant is Head of Department). In all we have

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 invested in the appointment of 20 new staff members who are submitted in this Unit since 2013/14,
 approximately two thirds of the total.

 Staff Support and Development
 In addition to successfully integrating new staff into our research culture, we also focus on
 delivering exceptional research support and development opportunities to retain excellent
 colleagues. All staff returned to this Unit are on permanent contracts. The essential resource to
 enable them to deliver on their research ambitions is time. All staff with a significant responsibility
 for research are supported by a workload allocation of between 30% and 40%, in addition to one
 term of research sabbatical on a three-year rota. Since 2014, 27 colleagues have benefitted from
 36 periods of institutionally-funded research leave. Dedicated and concentrated research time has
 been central to our ability to realise the completion of long-form outputs, and to extend our
 collaborations with policymakers, public sector organisations and NGOs. To further support the
 development of impact and grant capture, allocations of up to 10% are utilised to support
 colleagues with exceptional potential and to realise strategic initiatives. Complementing this
 investment is a dedicated annual development budget that has resourced major research,
 engagement and networking activity and supported research impact, conference attendance, and
 the establishing of project websites. Staff wellbeing is delivered through our college system. All
 staff are affiliated to one of our four colleges, who provide research events, community building
 opportunities, and dedicated Wellbeing Officers for staff. All staff and PGRs have been offered
 mental health first aid training in 2020, whilst dedicated research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions
 have been delivered on mental health.

 Our research and impact strategy has been underpinned by a commitment to developing the
 potential of all members of our research community. Clear career pathways and promotion criteria
 are specified for all staff. Evidence of our success in developing research leaders can be seen in
 the regular internal promotions to senior research posts, with Gill being promoted to Professor
 and Praet and Skinner to Readerships. Robust support mechanisms and development structures,
 managed within the Unit and across departments, have enabled the delivery of our research
 strategy and aided the realisation of staff research projects.

 As Research & KE Lead, Gilbert oversees our Research Mentoring scheme for all staff and
 organises Research Mentor training. This system supports the ongoing development of the
 mentee, from ECRs to Professors, through regular meetings and has been key to our successful
 development of interdisciplinary work on social justice and our expansion of our collaborations
 with non-HE organisations. All colleagues, including fractional staff, are provided with a dedicated
 Research Mentor who is a senior colleague with a proven track record of success in research and
 bidding. Mentors help staff develop a five-year research plan which covers all aspects of research,
 supporting them to deliver exceptional outputs, develop income generation, and maximise impact.
 Mentors read drafts of outputs and advise on appropriate publication outlets, offer advice on
 project proposals, and help network colleagues internally and externally in order to develop
 interdisciplinary links. In addition, experienced researchers organise activities that support staff
 development, including a regular research writing workshop, awaydays and a research seminar
 series. A collaborative and mutually reinforcing research culture is also facilitated for all staff and
 PGRs in the form of a termly academic writing group. Chaired by Eade and Holt, this group
 considers work-in-progress within a supportive critical context. Further dedicated workshops
 supporting research quality, publication processes and impact have been offered throughout the
 cycle with a combination of external (John Scott) and internal (Groarke, Hoskins, McCormack)
 speakers.

 Additional support is also provided for ECRs. Reduced workloads for teaching and administration
 facilitate the integration of our ECRs into our research culture, whilst their productivity is supported
 through accelerated access to a term-long sabbatical. Our ECRs have a dedicated ECR research
 mentor and are supported to participate as members of a University-wide Early Career Academic
 Network. We are also committed to providing more ECR opportunities as we deliver on our future
 strategy and to building on our experience of attracting external funding in support of postdoctoral
 employment, such as through the recent securing of a grant to support a Leverhulme Early Career

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellow who joined the Unit in 2020, on a project entitled ‘ADHD women: Resisting a
 neuronormative world’ (supervised by Bassel).

 We promote the exchange of staff between academia and appropriate professional contexts
 through the flexible use of sabbatical time, the ability to reduce FTE of individual posts, and the
 use of honorary fellowships. We also have mechanisms to support those entering higher
 education, through the provision of year-long professional development allowances, which can
 provide dedicated workload allocation of up to 30% to support the transition to a research career.
 Our seminar series and Graduate School training programmes also include practitioner or
 professional speakers to encourage mutually supportive networking. Research Impact Officers
 also support these relationships once established and prioritised by Research and KE Leads.

 PGR Support
 In addition to providing a supportive and intellectually challenging research environment for all our
 PGR students, a strategic priority for the Unit has been to increase PGR student recruitment. PGR
 recruitment is facilitated through open competition for all funded opportunities, and PGRs are able
 to approach the Graduate School to identify appropriate supervisory teams. All PGR applications
 are supported by the Research Degrees Convenor (Hoskins) and the Head of Department. PGRs
 are only recruited where projects align to staff expertise and research strategy. We have
 supervised 12 PGRs to completion, with a further 20 doctoral candidates currently pursuing
 research projects. To support PGR growth, and demonstrate our commitment to research funders,
 the University offers matched funding for PhD studentships when staff bid for substantial grants.
 Nine of our PGRs have been supported by such matched funding. In addition, the Unit has
 benefitted from 1 further Vice-Chancellor's PhD studentship, 5 departmental, 2 RUSH
 (Roehampton University and Sacred Heart), and 1 ESRC funded DTP SeNSS scholarships.

 A central feature of our PGR investment since 2014 has been our commitment to investment in
 doctoral research in ODA-recipient nations and informed by our commitment to social justice. We
 have ensured that our research programmes and PGR training play a role in building research
 capacities in developing countries, whilst also supporting inclusive research cultures in the
 academy. For example, the AHRC-funded ‘Rising from the Depths Network’ project (Marvin) aims
 to identify how the coastal marine cultural heritage of Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique and
 Madagascar can be used to drive ethical, inclusive and sustainable economic growth in the region,
 building social cohesion and reducing poverty. As part of this project, Beckmann, Marvin and
 Skinner are supervising four PGRs from Kenya and Tanzania, whose projects relate to the marine
 environment, local ecological knowledge, fisheries and marine heritage in these countries.
 Providing these students with comprehensive training in social research methods, and ultimately
 a doctoral qualification, will strengthen the discipline through their future work and that of those
 whom they in turn teach and train. Along similar lines, a current Indian student is working on
 human-elephant conflict and coexistence in the Western Ghats, while a former PGR from Albania
 is now Executive Director of the NGO Protection and Preservation of Natural Environment in that
 country.

 All PGRs are supported by at least two supervisors, and we actively incorporate ECRs and
 colleagues with limited supervisory experience into these teams wherever possible. One
 supervisor is designated Director of Studies (to qualify for this role, at least one student must have
 been supervised to completion), and this individual is responsible, where necessary, for mentoring
 less experienced supervisors. All new PGR supervisors undergo mandatory training comprising a
 two-day SEDA programme, Supervising Postgraduate Research. A separate short course is
 offered to experienced supervisors new to Roehampton.

 The doctoral journey is managed at Unit level by the departmental Research Degrees Convenor
 in association with McCormack and Sampani (representatives on research student panels).
 Student progression is monitored through a rigorous initial project proposal process (applications
 are assessed by two staff not on the supervisory team) and thereafter through annual monitoring
 reports. We pay careful attention to the integration of our PGRs into our research culture and
 students are encouraged to attend seminars and other events, including to present their work in

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progress. Hoskins organised a two-day conference at Roehampton ‘Measuring and evaluating
 the effectiveness of active citizenship education programmes to support disadvantaged youth’
 (2019), which was targeted at PhD students and ECRs and funded by the EU Cost Network
 (25,000 euros). We also offer support to PGRs in preparing for their future careers and on skills
 development, hold an annual Employability Event, and offer teaching and marking opportunities
 to our PGRs and research assistants, including SEDA-accredited teacher training as part of PhD
 progression. All PGRs are given a minimum £600 for conference attendance or other research-
 related expenses, and project funds are also provided, commensurate with the nature of the
 research to be undertaken. In addition, PGRs are supported centrally, and with local mentoring,
 to apply for external project grants. Our PGRs benefit from being members of a cross-University
 community, the Graduate School, which provides comprehensive induction, a buddy system, and
 opportunities for peer networking. Students are also provided with training and workshops
 organised by Graduate School on topics such as grant writing and media training, each student’s
 specific suite of training courses being finalised through discussion with their supervisory
 team. Students attend and present their own project ideas, progress and findings at the annual
 Graduate School Conference, which has a single cross-cutting theme each year, encouraging
 students to think and work beyond their home discipline. We also provide research training for
 successful doctoral applicants who can undertake an MA in Social Research Methods as part of
 the SENSS training pathway (SENSS training is open to all member institution students). In
 addition, the AHRC DTP TECHNE, for which Skinner was the training lead, embeds a cohort
 approach to research training, creating networking opportunities for an interdisciplinary community
 of doctoral scholars. Working with the creative industries, through research partnership and co-
 supervision, it also provides clear pathways to academic and non-academic employment.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 To achieve our aim of creating a vibrant and inclusive research environment we embed equality,
 diversity and inclusivity (EDI) in our staffing, research culture, and support mechanisms,
 implementing University policies and legislation relating to equality, diversity and anti-
 discrimination. Research & KE Leads and Research Mentors are all trained in EDI and ensure
 that recruitment, promotion, sabbatical and funding decisions are made equitably. Senior staff
 provide bespoke support, for example, on the allocation of duties and timing of work, the relieving
 of pressures around internal deadlines and the suitability of workspaces and have dedicated HR
 support to ensure policy and practice is up-to-date, while distribution of internal research support
 funds also takes EDI considerations into account. Staff returning from maternity/paternity/adoption
 leave are supported via a workload concession and access to a sabbatical immediately preceding
 or following their leave, while colleagues are also given the option to work flexibly, including, where
 feasible, remotely. Staff can seek the support of HR and Working Relationship Advisors
 (colleagues across the University trained to support staff in cases of discrimination, bullying or
 difficult working situations) and PGRs are supported by tailored University services (Graduate
 School, Staff Wellbeing, Student Wellbeing).

 A range of formal and informal mechanisms are in place to support all staff to promote EDI when
 planning activities, including support when bidding for external funding, accessing internal funds
 and applying for promotion. Research expectations of our part-time staff are pro-rata, in relation
 to both workload support and career progression. Part-time and fixed-term staff are also supported
 through the provision of Research Mentors and the encouragement to engage in the range of
 activities that are available, including our writing group, seminar series, and research workshops.
 The transition from full-time to part-time working is supported, as commitments or personal
 situations change. Periods of parental leave, caring duties, illness or other personal circumstances
 are taken into account when considering applications for conference and research-related travel,
 and in evaluations of requests for training funds. Where feasible in these situations teaching duties
 are shifted or some teaching/administrative duties are relieved, to free up more substantial blocks
 of time for research. Remote and flexible working is encouraged and supported, with particular
 consideration given to those with health needs, family or other caring commitments. Colleagues
 have been provided additional time away from the University in order to conduct international
 research and to access specific medical interventions and we work closely with HR to ensure any
 identified needs are met. We support those staff with protected characteristics through a range of

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 measures tailored to the specific needs of the individual, such as regular ‘checking-in’ meetings,
 reduced workloads, and our flexible working policy.

 Of our current staff community (29.85FTE), two thirds (66%) are female, of whom 19% are
 professors, 5% readers, 62% senior lecturers and 10% lecturers. 40% of our professoriate is
 female. Only 3% of our staff have declared a disability, whilst 13% identify as LBGTQI+. Our
 selection of outputs process was accompanied by a robust equality and diversity analysis to
 ensure decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected characteristics. 67% of the 66
 submitted outputs are attributed to female staff, while 6% are attributed to staff who have declared
 a disability. Moreover, 8% of the outputs are authored by colleagues identifying as BAME and
 18% by staff identifying as LGBTQI+. We have strived for an inclusive, balanced submission
 comprising the work of researchers at all career levels: 32% are authored by Professors, 11% by
 Readers, 44% by Senior Lecturers and 6% by Lecturers. Our commitment to EDI is explicit in our
 many research projects on topics such as human rights, gender identity, sexual minorities,
 ethnicity and homophobia. It was also central to the launch of our Decolonising the Curriculum
 Project in October 2019 (chaired by Bassel), which included a transformation of research-led
 teaching relating to issues of ethnicity and race, in conjunction with departmental seminars in 2019
 and 2020 on 'Decolonising the University'. This initiative has led to a more proactive research
 policy on EDI, which is reflected in our current PhD and post-doc recruitment. Of our 12 PGR
 completions, 42% were female and 50% BAME, figures which have risen to 70% and 55%
 respectively for our continuing PGR cohort. However, the number of individuals from diverse
 ethnic backgrounds amongst our staff is insufficiently representative of our student populations or
 our city, with only 13% identifying as BAME. Diversifying our staff base and our areas of research
 expertise are priorities for the Unit. We are committed to developing mechanisms to support and
 develop the career progression of our PGRs, ensuring the transformation of BAME representation
 in research and leadership roles in the discipline. We are also working on supporting further
 diversity and expansion of our doctoral student cohort within our larger focus on decolonising the
 curriculum. As part of this, one of our students is starting her AHRC TECHNE PhD in 2020 in
 collaboration with the Black Cultural Archives (BCA) to pursue a project entitled: ‘Exploring the
 History of Black Women’s Mental Health Organising in Britain from the 1970s – present day’.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Since REF2014 we have been guided by two key objectives in relation to income: a) to diversify
 funding; and b) to increase funding specifically for interdisciplinary work. Our research income is
 supported through robust research management, mentoring, and reward and recognition
 mechanisms, that are intended to enable the growth of our research capacities. Our investment in
 new research leadership and ECRs will provide the foundation for future growth in research
 income.

 The Research and KE Lead is responsible for all mentoring and research planning, and oversees
 the development of five-year research plans which include bidding intentions. Research mentors
 provide additional advice on the appropriateness of bids according to career stage and
 experience. All active bids are supported through a process of internal peer-review, conducted by
 a second reader with a track-record of bidding success and relevant expertise to mentor the
 applicant. This is managed within the Unit, but also draws on expertise from across the University
 where appropriate. We also draw on University-wide peer-review processes for all bids over a
 £50,000 threshold. For successful substantial grant applications, match-funding support is
 provided by the University to employ a PhD student or a postdoctoral researcher. This policy has
 been central to supporting successful grant capture, by demonstrating our Unit’s commitment to
 the delivery of research projects, whilst expanding our research capacity since 2014. Match-
 funding support for Marvin’s funded-research AHRC GCRF ‘Rising from the Depths’ projects was
 highlighted in the AHRC Delivery Plan.

 The upward trajectory in successful grant applications over the cycle is clear, with our research
 income from 1 August 2013 to 31 July 2020 totalling £855,024. An accounting issue on an EU-

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded grant has resulted in research income in 2016/17 being recorded as a loss, which has had
 an impact on our overall research income since 2013/14. Our support structures have been
 integral in increasing the success rate for our bids, which is now approximately 30%. One quarter
 (26%) of our grants involved partnership arrangements with other universities, and just over half
 (52%) had an international focus. Collaborative and international bids are central to our bidding
 plans. Research across our four focus themes has been supported by income from research
 councils, EU sources, and UK charities and trusts and we have had demonstrable success with
 EU funding across its programmes (Marie Curie, Erasmus+, EC). Our funding sources include
 quasi-political bodies and institutions such as UNICEF and the European Union as well as
 research councils, governmental agencies, charities and philanthropic sources. We are also
 actively pursuing a strategy to grow our experience of managing funded research projects as
 appropriate to staff career stage. Colleagues are actively encouraged to apply for smaller external
 grants to build capacity, develop a track record of bidding success and pave the way to larger and
 more ambitious research projects. For example, Holt’s research was funded by the British
 Academy (£10,000), and several smaller grants were received for research and mobility (Botoeva,
 Carter, Hoskins, Kerr, McCormack, Praet, Skinner), which have then supported more
 substantial grant capture, such as Skinner’s role as Co-I on the EU Commission: BEST 2.0
 Medium Grant ‘Saving the sea turtles of Anguilla: combining community action with scientific
 evidence to drive legislative change’.

 By diversifying our funding streams, we have also addressed our goal of supporting more
 interdisciplinary investigation, seeking and winning funding from bodies focused beyond
 sociological research. In addition to Marvin’s three large-scale projects funded by the AHRC and
 Wellcome Trust, Bell conducted a project entitled ‘The "skin" of commerce: Packaging,
 consumption and the public's health’ funded by the Wellcome Trust (£26,000, 2019). Our approach
 to funding has also been guided by a desire to support the development of new large-scale
 research consortia. Hoskins, with colleagues at UCL, secured funding from Nuffield for a project
 on ‘Post-16 Educational Trajectories and Social Inequalities in Political Engagement’. Work in this
 area has generated further collaboration with both the interdisciplinary ESRC LLAKES Research
 Centre (2014-2018), led by UCL, and the European Commission EU Cost Action Network. As a
 result of increasing reputational status and recognition, as well as the consolidation of research
 partnerships over time, we have also been successful in securing additional follow-up funding.

 A key strategy in our bidding has been to leverage external support to develop research impact
 through engagement with a variety of users, and in this area we now work with a diverse body of
 research funders. Gill’s research has been funded by the British Academy, Her Majesty’s
 Inspectorate of Constabulary, Santander, and the Nuffield Trust, engaging public, sector, business
 and charitable organisations. Our range of funding facilitates impact at different levels, from
 governmental to grassroots civil society organisations. Several of our projects have received
 funding from political or regional bodies. Hoskins led an international Young-In Early Career
 Researcher conference on the topic of ‘Measuring and Evaluating the Effectiveness of Active
 Citizenship Education Programmes to Support Disadvantaged Youth’ which was funded under the
 EU Cost Action Network. Hoskins has also received significant additional financial support from
 UNICEF to develop and test a new instrument to measure life skills in Egypt, Tunisia and
 Palestine, as well as support from the Robert Bosch Foundation to enable the assessment of
 educational interventions in active citizenship for disadvantaged young people. Marvin’s ‘Going
 Places’ project explored the issue of female socio-economic immobility in Ethiopia and sought to
 devise strategies to alleviate this by exploiting the close cultural connection between women and
 chickens. This work leveraged in-kind support from the National Museum of Ethiopia, which
 allowed the project team to engage the public and museum staff in highlighting the value of
 women's work as small-scale chicken farmers. Our funding is also supported by philanthropic
 organisations, with Bassel receiving funding from the Open Society Foundation for her project on
 ‘Women of Colour Resist’ (co-PI Akwugo Emejulu [Warwick]).

 Infrastructure
 As Research & KE Lead, Gilbert represents the Unit on the University Research Committee. The
 role of the Research and KE lead is to provide strategic oversight of the full range of research

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activity in the Unit, including the work of individual research staff and PGRs; the programme of
 research seminars, conferences and other events; invitations to, and support for, visiting scholars
 and research students; and the development of strategic initiatives (e.g. open access) and funding
 bids. The research of colleagues in the Unit is also supported by dedicated Research Development
 and Impact Officers. Our infrastructure enables staff and PGRs to conduct their own research and
 to collaborate within and beyond the Unit. Staff are able to bid for seed-funding to purchase small
 items of equipment for early-stage research projects.

 Within the Unit, we also house the Crucible Centre for Human Rights Research (an affiliated
 member of the Association of Human Rights Institutions), which provides a platform to develop
 our research in the field of social justice from an interdisciplinary perspective. The Crucible Centre
 supports innovative collaborations across University departments and with external organisations,
 including Amnesty International, the Scottish Human Rights Commission, the Equality and Human
 Rights Commission, and the Utrecht Refugee Launchpad over the last five years. The Centre
 organises events regularly throughout the academic year, and external speakers at these events
 have included internationally recognised academics including human rights lawyers; filmmakers
 and activists from notable NGOs and international figures such as Lt Gen Rome Dallaire (former
 Force Commander of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda).

 Facilities
 All staff have dedicated office space and IT infrastructure. PGR students share accessible, secure
 office space, with additional dedicated PGR study spaces in the new University Library, which
 opened in 2018. The Library provides access to a wide range of printed sources, e-books and
 online databases and journals. We also invest in specialist resources where they are required to
 support research outcomes, such as the purchase of access to two subscription-based websites
 (Find My Past and Ancestry) to realise the research and impact plans of one of our ECRs.
 Research events organised by Unit members include symposia and conferences, which are
 supported by the University’s Estates, conferencing, IT and Catering departments. The University
 has invested in a major programme of infrastructural development which has transformed both the
 physical and research environments. Unit staff and PGRs have full access to the new state-of-the-
 art conference facilities, which have facilitated the hosting of international conferences. Recent
 successful conferences hosted by Unit members at Roehampton include a new Social Sciences
 Symposium, whose inaugural event was organised by Nirta in 2019. Papers from the symposium
 have been collated into a volume entitled Monstrous Ontologies: Politics, Ethics, Materiality
 (Vernon Press, 2021). McCormack organised ‘Fluidity and non-exclusivity: Explorations of sexual
 and romantic desire’ (2018), funded by the American Institute of Bisexuality with keynotes from
 Savin-Williams (Cornell University) and Diamond (University of Utah).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit’s strategy is to work collaboratively with research-users in the origination, design
 and application of our research to advance a socially-just society. The Unit has conducted
 extensive activities which have contributed to this aim through research-based action to support
 the work of policy-makers, charities and community groups, and practitioners, for the benefit of
 diverse communities. Our contribution to society has been developed through investments in
 collaborative, and sustained relationships with local organisations and government, engagements
 with policy-makers and national bodies, and the expansion of our international collaborations to
 deliver meaningful impact. External collaborations are supported and facilitated through our
 investments in research support, including mentoring, dedicated time, seed-funding, and the
 dedicated support of a Research Impact Officer.

 Collaborations and Contribution to the Economy and Society
 Our sustained engagement with local community organisations is exemplified by Garapich’s
 research on marginalisation in London’s migrant communities. He has developed strong
 collaborations with two London-based charities, the 999 Club in Deptford and the Upper Room in
 Acton, that assist homeless and vulnerable people, ex-offenders, and undocumented migrants.
 His research on homelessness and severe structural disadvantage, together with his involvement

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with these local charities, has had a direct impact on the immediate environment, ranging from
 providing student project evaluations of the charities’ day-to-day organisation for use in annual
 evaluations for their trustees, to opportunities for students to engage directly with the problem of
 homelessness. In addition, Eade has longstanding links with Bangladeshi community
 organisations, including a current Heritage Lottery project on Bangladeshi women working in the
 garment industry during the 1970s. He is also President of Swadhinata, a London-based
 Bangladeshi heritage organisation. We have worked closely with, and contributed to sustaining
 the activities of, a range of other charities committed to social justice, including the Association of
 Child Psychotherapists and the Winnicott Trust. We will continue to deepen our local engagement,
 particularly through sustained work with the Boroughs of Wandsworth and Richmond, building on
 the contribution of Farrant and Garapich to a successful research collaboration to explore the
 effects of COVID-19 on the local population in the Summer of 2020, and our contribution to local
 high street regeneration.

 Through engagement with policy-makers and networks of organisations, we have actively sought
 to increase the national profile of our research and its impact. This work has been developed
 through our engagement and high-profile collaborations including with partners such as the
 Equality and Human Rights Commission, the UK Government’s Home Office policy on initiatives
 on adolescent-to-parent violence and abuse, the Scottish Human Rights Commission, the
 Metropolitan Police, and the Cultural Heritage All-Party Parliamentary Group. Gill’s work with a
 broad array of national collaborators and networks has been widely recognised. In addition to her
 work on honour crimes, forced marriage, and violence against women being awarded an ESRC
 Outstanding Impact in Public Policy Award in June 2015, Gill was awarded a CBE in the Queen’s
 Birthday Honours List, June 2017. Gill has also been shortlisted for the Emma Humphreys
 Memorial Prize 2017, the First Women Awards 2017, and the Woman of the Year in the Asian
 Business Awards 2018, in recognition of her contributions to society. Holt was supported with
 seed-funding to expand the reach of her research on experiences of violence towards
 grandparents in a kinship care context during 2020, developing a website to share the project
 findings, including with organisations such as Grandparents Plus, Coram BAAF and the Youth
 Justice Board. Bell has contributed to a ‘Wilton Park Dialogue’ on ‘Reducing the harmful use of
 alcohol: a roadmap for a whole of society approach’, while her work on e-cigarettes directly
 informed Public Health England’s original position statement on e-cigarettes. McCormack works
 with The Loop, a non-profit making Community Interest Company established in 2013 which
 pioneered Multi-Agency Safety Testing in the UK, providing drug safety testing, welfare and harm
 reduction services at nightclubs, festivals and other leisure events. Colleagues also formally adopt
 advisory roles to extend networks of collaborations, for example, Marvin is on the advisory board
 of the UK Wolf Conservation Trust, and is a trustee of the Powell Cotton Museum of Natural History
 and Ethnography, Quex Park, Kent.

 Since 2014, we have also invested in expanding our international research and its reach. We have
 formally collaborated with several United Nations organisations (UNESCO; UNICEF; UNDP), as
 well as further organisations such as the Legal Aid Centre of Namibia, the National Land
 Commission of Belize and the International Commission of Jurists in Myanmar. Beckmann has
 carried out consultancy work, looking at women's birth-related decision-making and community
 health volunteers' motivation in Zanzibar to aid the building of a new national digital health platform
 and improve maternity services. Her work has also informed new guidelines for the use of rapid
 HIV testing in Zimbabwe and beyond and she is leading the qualitative and ethnographic aspects
 of a Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation-funded project, ‘Sources and Impact of Misclassification
 Errors in HIV Rapid Test Algorithms in a Hyper-Endemic HIV Setting in sub-Saharan Africa’,
 carried out in partnership with the Zimbabwe Ministry of Health and Child Care. Hoskins engages
 with a wide network of policymakers, activists and NGOs involved in shaping the future of
 education and citizenship, including education ministers in Egypt and Tunisia, the Network of Arab
 Citizenship Education and the Young-In meeting, Greece. Eade has established a flagship
 network, Pilgrimage Network, through the European Association of Social Anthropologists. Gilbert
 is a board member of the People's Planet Project, an organisation assisting indigenous
 communities in their battle against deforestation through documentaries and participatory films;
 he also conducted training and capacity building for the International Commission of Jurists in

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Myanmar, supporting strategies on litigation, and helping a new independent lawyers’ association
 to support the emergence of the rule of law in Myanmar. In addition, he is a strategic advisor for
 Clean Trade, an organisation working to support peoples’ rights over their natural resources
 against blood oil and conflict minerals.

 Contribution to the Research Base
 The Unit contributes to the sustainability of the discipline through a range of activities, including
 international exchanges, PhD external examiner roles, keynotes, public lectures, training events
 for policymakers and professional practitioners, and the provision of expertise and advice for
 publishers, journals, grants committees and funding bodies.

 We have focused on developing our international research profile, and have forged international
 connections by welcoming visiting international scholars and taking up fellowships abroad. We
 have hosted 18 funded visiting scholars from Brazil, China, Mongolia, Spain and Turkey, whilst
 we have taken up visiting fellowships at the Amsterdam Research Centre for Gender and Sexuality
 (ARC-GS) (Ammaturo); Duke University (Nirta); Laboratoire d'Anthropologie Sociale, Collège de
 France (Praet), and a funded National Library of Australia Fellowship (Gilbert, AUS$22,900). We
 have examined over 20 PhDs across the UK, Europe, North America and Australia.

 Our rich array of international connections has been extended by our contribution to over 100
 conferences and speaking engagements in the period along with our engagement with a wide
 range of academics and practitioners. Bassel, for example, presented a keynote at the British
 Sociological Association Annual Conference (2019), whilst Hoskins delivered four international
 keynotes, and Gill gave 20 international keynotes/guest lectures, including in Australia, Denmark,
 Malta, Pakistan, Spain, Switzerland, and the USA. Gilbert gave an expert presentation during the
 international conference on ‘Rural Inequalities: Evaluating approaches to overcome disparities’
 organised by the UN International Fund for Agricultural Development (2018) addressed at
 policymakers in the field. We have sought to extend the contours of our disciplines through our
 organisation of numerous conferences, workshops, and research events. For example, Bassel’s
 funded research led to ‘Listening at the Intersections’ (2019), supported by the University of New
 South Wales, while Botoeva co-organised ‘Reactive responses to extractive practices in Central
 Asia’ (2019) in collaboration with UCL. We have also engaged non-academic contributors. Gill
 curated two events at the House of Commons: #IWD2016 and the launch of ‘Women on Brexit’
 (2017). Praet, meanwhile, co-organised the conference ‘Anthropology Off Earth’ at the Collège de
 France/Observatoire de Paris, and a related exhibition at the Musée d'Histoire Naturelle and the
 Musée de l'Homme (Paris). Botoeva organised ‘Globality of Central Asia’ (University of Exeter,
 2019).

 Lastly, Unit members fulfil numerous editorial and review roles for leading journals, publishers and
 funding bodies. McCormack is Editor of the Critical Studies of Men and Masculinities series
 (Routledge), whilst Bassel is Associate Editor of the Journal Citizenship Studies. We have been
 represented on a further 10 editorial boards and have reviewed for over half a dozen publishers,
 as well as major journals, and funding bodies, including the ESRC (Bassel, Botoeva, Gilbert,
 Gill, Skinner, Marvin); British Academy (Holt, Marvin); European Science Foundation (Gill); and
 over a dozen others.




                                                                                              Page 13
