Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London

 Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and international studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1      Context and structure
 a) Overall context
 King’s has the largest concentration of politics and international studies researchers in the UK
 (171.56 FTE). This uniquely wide-ranging research community, which cuts across four of the five
 Schools in the Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy, brings an unparalleled diversity of
 theoretical, empirical and methodological approaches to bear on understanding the processes and
 underpinnings of political, economic and social transformations that have shaped and are
 reshaping our world. Our research is energised by the recognition that traditional boundaries,
 particularly between economic and political processes, are becoming more blurred, making
 individual phenomena harder to disentangle from others, and necessitating an interdisciplinary
 social science effort to help understand the challenges and advance the debate (for academics,
 for the wider public, for policymakers, and practitioners, broadly conceived).
     We are home to particular cross-unit strengths in: political institutions, governance and
 geopolitics; foreign, defence and security policy; political violence; peacebuilding and
 reconciliation; radicalisation and extremism; authoritarianism; international orders and disorders;
 public attitudes and behaviours; political representation and participation; democracy and electoral
 integrity; micro- and macro-economic policy, markets and financialisation; and dynamics of trade
 and development. We approach such themes, and their many interconnections, through both
 nationally focused (with expertise in British politics, government and foreign policy in particular)
 and internationally comparative research. This includes analyses of subnational and federalist
 politics, nation states and non-state actors, and the roles of supranational international
 organisations, with regional specialisms in the European Union, the Balkans, Russia, India, east
 Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. Our community possesses expertise in the
 theories and methods of inference from political theory and political philosophy, from political
 science (survey experiments, randomised control trials, social network analysis, linear regression
 and other quantitative modelling techniques, longitudinal analyses, social choice theory, decision
 theory, and game theory) and from empirical and interpretive traditions in international relations
 (normative and critical theory, post-colonial theory, feminist perspectives, socio-political and
 historical perspectives, ethnography, cross-cultural research, and visual methodologies). In
 addition, politics and international studies researchers have departmental colleagues in other
 UoAs, each with their own interests, perspectives and methodologies; there is considerable
 interdisciplinary resonance in politics and international studies at King’s because of our
 departmental intersections with other Panel C UoAs, notably 14 (Geography), 17 (Business and
 Management Studies), 18 (Law), 21 (Sociology) and Panel D, 26 (Modern Languages and
 Linguistics) and 28 (History).
          Together, this disciplinary pluralism creates an environment conducive to politics and
 international studies research that in its originality, significance and rigour makes major
 contributions to its fields, empirically, conceptually, methodologically (see 4.1, 4.2), and that
 creates significant and lasting impacts for and with research partners, beneficiaries and key
 audiences (4.3), where appropriate, responding rapidly to external demands and opportunities as
 they arise, as with the Covid-19 pandemic. This politics and international studies research
 community is sustained by: specific activities to encourage and enable collaboration, whilst
 recognising the benefits disciplinary-specific expertise (1.2); a commitment to growth and
 investment in priority areas and the ongoing development of our researchers (2.1, 2.2); the
 integration of postgraduates into our research endeavours (2.3); and is enhanced by a portfolio of
 competitive research grants from all major UK and international funders of politics and
 international studies (3.1).
          The overall context is investment from a significant base, with Category A staff increasing
 from 98.3 FTE in 2014 to 171.56 FTE in the current submission, an increase of 75%, including 79
 newly appointed staff. Together, these researchers have published more than 200 books, more
 than 1,100 peer-reviewed articles, and captured close to £50 million of external funding in the

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reporting period. During this time, the international reputation of King’s politics and international
 studies research has grown, attested by a rise to 15th in the world (from 27th at REF2014) and 4th
 in the UK (from 5th at REF2014) in the QS World University Rankings. Compared to most
 institutions, ours is a larger and more broadly embedded community of politics and international
 studies researchers. This diversity is conducive to the future of the field; with our scale and variety
 comes tremendous opportunity for positive contributions across theories, methods, data sets, and
 regional foci going forwards. The following section briefly surveys the departments that make up
 UoA19 at King’s, their individual strengths and common interests, before then describing our
 priorities for the coming period.

 b) Descriptive context: Politics and International Studies at King’s
 Politics and international studies at King’s is carried out in the Faculty of Social Science & Public
 Policy, primarily in research-focused departments within the School of Politics & Economics
 (Department of Political Economy, Department of European & International Studies, King’s Russia
 Institute, and until 2018 the Department of Middle Eastern Studies) and the School of Security
 Studies (Department of War Studies, Defence Studies Department), with other Category A staff in
 the School of Global Affairs (Department of International Development, Lau China Institute, King’s
 India Institute, King’s Brazil Institute, the African Leadership Centre), the Policy Institute (Global
 Institute for Women’s Leadership [GIWL]; UK in a Changing Europe [UKICE] hub) and the
 International School for Government [ISfG]. This community is characterised by a combination of
 core disciplinary expertise, interdisciplinarity, plurality of theories (including critical theory) and
 methods, and a combination of both context-specific and generalisable contributions to
 understanding social, political and economic transformations at different scales and
 internationally. The following overview of the main themes and approaches of our departments
 and institutes is intended to familiarise the reader with the component parts of the UoA; section
 1.2 then describes specific developments over the reporting period.

 School of Politics & Economics

 The Department of Political Economy (UoA19 FTE: 51.75) is unique in the UK in mixing expertise
 from political science, political theory, economics and related disciplines. This intersection includes
 the application of the economic method, broadly construed, to the analysis of political institutions,
 public policies and market phenomena. The Department embraces theoretical and methodological
 pluralism with quantitative, qualitative and historical methods represented and both positivist and
 non-positivist understandings of scientific inquiry deployed. This rich disciplinary space, some of
 which falls within and some of which challenges mainstream understandings of political and
 economic phenomena, is atypical compared to stand-alone economics or politics departments.
 Priorities over the reporting period included the intensive development of the cross-cutting
 subdisciplines of public policy, political philosophy, empirical political economy and quantitative
 political science. The Department has also sought to broaden its methodological expertise, with
 REF2 outputs including work using: formal modelling; large-N regression-based analysis; field, lab
 and survey experiments; natural experiments; small-N comparative analysis; qualitative case
 studies; policy analysis; political historiography; political ethnography; discourse analysis; critical
 theory; empirical political theory; and normative political theory. New hires in the reporting period
 have created connections across the UoA (for example: John, with the Policy Institute on ‘nudges’
 and compliance to behavioural messages during the Covid-19 crisis; Portes, with UKICE on highly
 productive contributions to the public debate around Brexit, specifically the economic effects of
 changing immigration, see 4.1-4.3). Research groups include: quantitative political economy,
 public policy and regulation, political economy of peace and security, political theory, and self-
 governance. The Department hosts: the Centre for the Study of Governance and Society
 (established 2018), focused on how formal and informal rules of governance operate and evolve
 and how they facilitate or imperil peaceful, prosperous and ecologically-secure societies, and; the
 Centre for British Politics and Government (established 2019), combining historical, political
 science, political theory and constitutional perspectives. The utility of groups and centres for cross-
 fertilisation of ideas is described under 1.2.
          The Department of European & International Studies (EIS) (UoA19 FTE: 22) conducts
 research focused on enhancing the understanding of contemporary Europe as embedded in global

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 order, using multi-disciplinary approaches from political science, history, sociology, philosophy,
 geography, anthropology, and political economy. This includes research on the changing politics
 and social structures of European countries, as well as of the European Union - how the EU affects
 not only its member state but also relationships with the rest of the world (in particular through
 regional specialisms in Eastern Europe, China, East Asia, Latin America and the Middle East and
 North Africa). The unique strength of the Department is that it, i) draws extensively on theoretical
 approaches from the multidisciplinary field of international relations to understand Europe’s
 relationship with its neighbours, influencing and being influenced by global dynamics (notably in
 International Political Economy), and ii) values heterodox economics and critical perspectives on
 dominant approaches in economic analysis. Over the reporting period, research has been directed
 to the unifying theme of ‘Crisis and Limitations of European and Global Order’, and implications
 for agency, policy, and strategy. Core strengths, building on synergies across the UoA are found
 in: the changing dynamics of capitalism and global political economy (including financial crises
 and global governance issues related to trade, migration, labour, and development); theories of
 international relations and foreign policy-making; political theory and thought (in particular on state
 theory and neo-Marxism); nationalism, populism, radicalisation and extremism; concepts of order
 and disorder in international systems, and research on sub- and supra-national politics, including
 social movements and diasporas. New hires in the reporting period have created connections
 across the School (for example: Kupatadze on post-Soviet Eurasia focusing on transnational
 crime, a joint-appointment with the King’s Russia Institute). Research groups include: International
 Political Economy, European Foreign Policy, Critical European Studies, Comparative Politics, and
 Contemporary Marxism. The Department has hosted the Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence for
 Europe in the World (focused on Law and Governance, with the Global Institutes and the School
 of Law), whose Director (Talani) held a Jean Monnet Chair of European Political Economy. The
 Department recently established (2020) the DAAD-supported Centre for German Transnational
 Relations (director: Hertner), with colleagues in German, History, Defence Studies and the School
 of Education, Communication & Society, creating links across UoA19 and into UoAs 26 and 28.
          The King’s Russia Institute (UoA19 FTE: 5); established in 2013) was integrated into the
 School of Politics & Economics in 2016, allowing for greater synergies between research and its
 support. Its research focuses on core themes of contentious politics and authoritarianism,
 corruption and dysfunction in law and governance, the role of ideology and ideation in intra-state
 contestation and international conflict, and how citizens navigate institutional boundaries amidst
 rapid transformation. These themes provide fertile ground for overlap with other UoA19 units
 including specifically in: Russian foreign and security policy (with joint-appointments: DWS,
 Sagaramosa, Deyermond; EIS, Kupatadze), social identity theory and informal patterns of
 political and economic power in Russia, the political economy of energy governance, sanctions
 and energy security, the ways citizens’ interactions with bureaucracy shapes and is shaped by
 their perceptions of the state, and relationships of power in Russia, in authoritarian states, and in
 societies experiencing social, economic and political transformation more broadly.
          In addition, the School hosts the Institute of Middle Eastern Studies (established in 2018,
 formerly the Department of Middle Eastern Studies, see 1.2). This draws together more than 30
 faculty members from across a dozen departments, focused on the history and politics of the
 Middle East, conflict resolution in divided societies, the political economy of the Gulf region, and
 international relations of the Middle East. The Institute includes researchers from all other
 academic departments in UoA19 with expertise on virtually every country in the region, particularly
 modern Egypt and Lebanon, the Gulf Cooperation Council and the Maghreb. By placing most
 researchers on Russia/Eurasia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, and the
 European Union into one school, we have created a critical mass of research on Europe and its
 southern and eastern environs.

 School of Security Studies

 The Department of War Studies (UoA19 FTE: 51.10) is recognised internationally for its agenda-
 setting empirical and theoretical analyses of the complex phenomena of conflict, security, and
 international politics. It does this from an interdisciplinary perspective which includes historical,
 political, sociological, philosophical, artistic, legal, ethical and military viewpoints. The Department
 is home to a unique, epistemologically-diverse community of scholars across international political

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 theory, critical conflict and security studies, international political sociology, strategic studies, and
 historical-political perspectives. This community is philosophically, methodologically and
 geographically diverse, and highly connected with governments, INGOs, security practitioners,
 conflict-affected communities and artists and cultural commentators. Across this diversity, the
 Department is characterised by research that challenges entrenched assumptions about the
 construction, representation and contested dynamics of governance, security and securitisation,
 their relationship with political, social, cultural, technological and economic processes, and their
 implications for contentious concepts such as democracy, authoritarianism, nationalism and
 extremism (with a particular interest in moving beyond Eurocentric dominance and traditional
 frameworks, drawing on postcolonial and feminist theorising). This varied portfolio includes major
 contributions to explaining and understanding: the ways in which violence (both within and
 between communities, from international conflict to intrastate political violence) originates or might
 be prevented, how it is exacerbated, sustained, mediated and resolved; the ways in which arts-
 based and creative approaches to post-conflict reconciliation might offer alternatives to
 institutional approaches to peacebuilding and transitional justice; and the ways in which
 governments detect, construct and respond to perceived threats to their citizens and their
 geopolitical interests, including risk communication, and public and practitioner behaviours and
 decision-making in crises (REF3).
          Research is organised through Centres, hubs and groups. These include: the Centre for
 Grand Strategy, focused on the concepts of changing world order and statecraft (lead for the
 cross-UoA Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships programme described in 2.3); King’s Centre for
 Strategic Communications, which takes a social constructivist and phenomenological approach to
 research on emotion, trust, and the natures of information, disinformation and misinformation
 (synergies with the Russia Institute on information warfare); the Centre for the Study of Divided
 Societies, which examines the factors that generate conflict or constrain and disrupt conflict
 resolution, peacebuilding and remembrance practices (with specialists on MENA region and
 Northern Ireland); the Centre for Science & Security Studies, focused on weapons proliferation
 and non-proliferation, and cultures around nuclear security and strategic stability (synergies with
 Informatics [REF3], Global Health); the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation,
 focused on empirical understanding of international security and terrorism, in particular the tipping-
 points into violent extremism (synergies with the Policy Institute on the Global Internet Forum to
 Counter Terrorism [REF3]); and the Research Centre in International Relations, members of which
 develop critical and normative international political theory, critical, feminist and postcolonial
 approaches to conflict and security studies, and the international political sociology of security
 practices.
          Beyond these centres, several hubs and groups relate to areas of methodological concern
 (such as the Arts & Conflict hub, the Visual and Embodied Methodologies Network, the Wargaming
 Network), regional focus (such as the African Research Hub, the Russian & Eurasian Security
 research group, the Asian Security & Warfare group), or substantive interest (cybersecurity; war
 crimes; conflict and health; environmental security). In addition, the Sir Michael Howard Centre for
 the History of War is the world’s largest concentration of historians of war. Political and military
 historians make a vital contribution to the intellectual environment for research on geopolitics,
 international relations and foreign policy, even though they are submitted to UoA28 (31FTE from
 across the School).
          This is also evident in the Defence Studies Department (UoA19 FTE: 24.71), which has a
 unique position based at the Defence Academy of the UK (Joint Services Command and Staff
 College [JSCSC], Shrivenham). In addition to strengths in military, naval, diplomatic and imperial
 history, the Department’s research addresses contemporary issues in international relations,
 defence and regional security policy studies, strategic studies, and the ethics of conflict. Much of
 this is concerned with the changing nature of security and strategic challenges. These include: the
 ways in which emerging technologies, in particular artificial intelligence, are changing strategic
 affairs, combat operations, and defence policy, including in relation to arms control; the
 implications of Brexit for defence, foreign and security policy; the ethical dimensions of military
 operations, including the relationship between technology, the changing character of conflict and
 their practical and moral implications. This focus on rapidly evolving strategic environments and
 the effects of transformative technological change can be seen in the recently established (2020)
 Freeman Air and Space Institute within the Department. The Department is also home to particular

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strengths in areas of mutual interest to colleagues across the UoA, such as: authoritarian
 resilience; war termination, peacebuilding and its legacies; chemical and nuclear weapons policy
 (with a number of joint appointments in the Centre for Science & Security Studies); and the role of
 security forces in exacerbating, managing, mitigating and adapting to climate change and diversity
 loss.
         In 2019, the School of Security Studies introduced a new set of research themes. The goal
 has been to bring cohesion and greater coherence to research conducted across the Wasr Studies
 and Defence Studies departments, to bridge the physical distance between the departments, and
 to encourage greater dialogue and exchange across areas of common interest. The themes
 introduced are: military and political history; international relations and ethics; science, technology
 and health security; regional security and development; strategic studies; defence and diplomacy;
 national and international security, and; society, culture and law. This cross-School thematic
 approach underpinned the research conference ‘Global Shocks: security implications of major
 worldwide crises’ (June 2020). This convened eight panel events (one from each new theme)
 offering ethical, technological, historical and diplomatic perspectives on the challenges we face
 during international crises today, such as Covid-19, and during historical shocks such as the end
 of the Cold War.

 School of Global Affairs
 In addition, UoA 19 comprises the Department of International Development, the Africa Leadership
 Centre, and three ‘Global Institute’s, each combining regional, national and local expertise with
 broader theoretical and methodological concerns. In addition to the Russia and Middle East
 institutes, relevant King’s Institutes are: China, Brazil, and India (all in the School of Global Affairs,
 alongside the Department of International Development). Between them, these institutes make
 vital contributions to politics and international studies scholarship at King’s, characterised by
 dedicated, Institute-based FTE as well as researchers holding joint-appointments with
 Departments and affiliated research status. Joint appointments were introduced during this
 reporting period, to strengthen disciplinary linkages and connect area studies scholars with others
 beyond their regional focus. A new Research Committee, to galvanise work across these units
 was established in 2019 (Jaffrelot).
          The Lau China Institute (UoA19 FTE: 2) focuses on the immense economic influence of
 China and the significance of this influence across geopolitics, culture and globalisation. Its
 interdisciplinary research covers Chinese political economy, Chinese domestic politics, Chinese
 international relations and foreign policy (in particular UK-China and EU-China relations, Brown
 [REF3]), and Chinese society and its internal dynamics. Its research provides overlap with other
 UoA19 units, and Law and Business, such as: the internationalisation of Chinese renminbi
 currency and the role of foreign countries in this process (co-authored publications with EIS,
 Knoerich); the role of migration in China, in particular internal population movement; the Belt and
 Road Initiative and its impact on Europe; and European inward and outward investment in China
 (co-authored publications with International Development). A characteristic of this research,
 relevant across the UoA, is the interplay between formal and informal institutions in authoritarian
 regimes, and how those institutions jointly shape economic and policy outcomes.
          The King’s India Institute (UoA19 FTE: 2.5) provides a home for interdisciplinary, mixed
 methods research, most of it comparative (sub-national and cross-national) in nature, focusing on:
 democracy, the state and political institutions in India, including federalism and territorial politics
 (Tillin); India’s political economy, including the politics of poverty reduction and fiscal
 decentralisation (co-authored publications with International Development); Indian foreign policy
 and strategic studies, including Asian-Pacific security and proliferation of weapons of mass
 destruction (co-authored publications with Defence Studies); and the role of caste in structuring
 social and economic life. The Institute’s interdisciplinary profile can be seen in its cohort of affiliate
 researchers, including from Political Economy, War Studies, International Development, Law,
 Business, Psychiatry, English, History, Philosophy, Film Studies, and others. Particularly fertile
 overlap can be found in the study of populism, foreign policy and international relations
 (Wojczewski), with connections to related conversations in War Studies (on the integration of the
 phenomenon of populism into international relations theory). The Institute is also home to
 economists (Kumar) whose work on causal inference and micro-econometrics, using


                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 observational data such as household surveys, is relevant to advanced quantitative methods
 development across the UoA.
         The King’s Brazil Institute (staff counted in Departments) shares many of these
 characteristics, dedicated to research on the internal political, economic, and social dynamics of
 Brazil, as well as its changing international roles. Research is organised around four clusters,
 three of which are relevant across the UoA: Diplomacy, Security and Defence (how the Brazilian
 state crafts its security, defence and foreign policies, closely related to War Studies – de Carvalho,
 joint appointment); Governance, Leadership and Democracy (exploring Brazil’s transition to
 democracy, using comparative and global perspectives, including interest in federalism and multi-
 level elections, co-authored publication with the India Institute), and Environment, Energy and
 Sustainability (on Brazil’s contributions to global environmental and energy politics, as well as the
 domestic political economy of Brazil’s environmental and energy regimes). Affiliate researchers
 come from across the UoA and beyond (European & International Studies, International
 Development and War Studies, with one Brazil Institute PhD student going on to an ESRC
 Postdoctoral Fellowship in the latter).
         The Department of International Development (UoA FTE:11) focuses on emerging
 economies and middle-income developing countries, in contrast to many UK development studies
 departments. The Department’s research focuses on critical perspectives on economic growth,
 modernisation and ‘progress’ through context-specific economic, social and political
 transformations. It does this from the perspectives of political science, sociology, social
 anthropology, development economics, history, geography and business studies. It hosts common
 interest groups for the UoA, including Political Economy & Institutions, with members from EIS,
 the India and China Institutes, and Poverty, Inequality & Inclusive Growth, with members from
 Political Economy and the India Institute. The Department also plays a leading role in the King’s
 Gender Network, with a particular focus on violence against women and girls in conflict and post-
 conflict settings. Finally, the African Leadership Centre (UoA FTE: 0.5), in addition to its role
 convening and training African leaders in peace, security and development, maintains an active
 research portfolio on those same themes, interrogating the challenges of peacebuilding, conflict
 and insecurity in Africa. It has particular synergies with War Studies, concerned with dominant
 theories and notions of statehood and its intersection with international political economy, society-
 state dynamics, and regionalisms. The Centre examines the role of African agency in international
 relations, perceptions of Africa in the global system, and Africa’s role in both constituting and
 responding to global trends and developments.

 The Policy Institute at King’s and its associated initiatives (UoA19 FTE: 1.0)
 Beyond these departments and institutes, King’s UoA19 benefits from several units that are
 research-active with a particular focus on engagement with policymaking communities in the UK
 and internationally. The Policy Institute at King’s is a key part of the vitality and sustainability of
 the UoA at King’s, even though its staff are not UoA19 Category A returns (in this reporting period
 its Directors have been Jonathan Grant, Jennifer Rubin [since Executive Chair of ESRC and Chief
 Scientific Adviser and Director General Science, Technology, Analysis, Research and Strategy at
 the Home Office] and since 2018 Bobby Duffy, Chair of the Campaign for Social Science). Its
 Director of Research, Benedict Wilkinson, plays a key role in generating collaborations across the
 UoA, typically related to policy evaluation, using its convening power to connect researchers with
 others, and managing King’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account. Research themes of substantive
 interest to UoA19 researchers include: Defence & Security Policy, and Trust, Facts & Democracy.
 The Institute also serves as a ‘Policy Park’ for initiatives that share an interest in ensuring that
 evidence and expertise inform policy and practice. Relevant for UoA19 are:
 i) the Global Institute for Women’s Leadership (GIWL) (Director: Campbell; chaired by Julia
 Gillard, former Prime Minister of Australia). From a research perspective, the GIWL focuses on
 the development of randomised control trials to determine what works in women’s progression in
 the workplace.
 ii) the International School for Government (ISfG) (Director: Massey), established to provide for
 professional development of those working in and around government and policymaking, its
 specific research interests include public administration and issues around the reform and
 modernisation of government and governance.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 iii) the UK in a Changing Europe (UKICE) (Director: Menon), an ESRC-funded think-tank which
 engages in research and policy analysis of the complex relationship between the UK and the
 European Union. We recognise that the role of UKICE is the promotion of independent research
 from any institutional origin; however, as its host institution, and given our significant institutional
 investment in its infrastructure and the benefits of agility and flexibility it gains from the environment
 in our Policy Institute, UKICE makes a contribution to the vitality of the King’s research community,
 and derives benefits from that community.

 1.2      Strategic aims for research and impact
 The overarching aim for the current reporting period has been continued substantial growth across
 the UoA, harnessing it in support of broader interdisciplinary ambitions. The goal has been to
 create the conditions in which interdisciplinary activities are more likely to occur and flourish, by
 establishing structures, policies, strategies and support mechanisms, while not constraining
 individual research ambitions. In so doing, it is also about sustaining a research community that
 is more consistent with meeting the needs and demands of postgraduate and early-career
 researchers, and those of research users and beneficiaries.
          In this reporting period, our main priorities for research and impact have been : i) improved
 articulation of our research through the creation of new School structures, and continued
 recruitment in areas that bolster our methodological coverage and that lend themselves to
 interdisciplinarity, in support of; ii) the consolidation of emerging and new collaborative cultures
 within, across and beyond the UoA, such as cross-School research groups and activities; iii)
 establishing practical research infrastructure, such as seed-funding, and processes that support
 research excellence and increase the likelihood, productivity and quality of interdisciplinary
 working across the range of research themes represented in the UoA, iv) ensuring that our
 researchers are conscious of and capable of achieving the potential impacts of their work beyond
 academia; v) a renewed focus on research mentoring, to enhance the quality of research outputs;
 vi) investment in postgraduate and early-career researchers (these last two being described in
 section 2).
          Through each of these aims have run the principles of: encouraging and respecting
 pluralism, continuing to champion a diversity of approaches and themes across our research base,
 supportive of the specific aims, approaches and trajectories of individual researchers and
 disciplines; focus on quality and rigour, such that research continues to make and be recognised
 for major contributions to its fields; challenge-led research, conscious of where social science
 research is both most urgent for understanding complex challenges and can be most beneficial in
 addressing them; internationalisation, both in understanding the dynamics of place in our research
 themes, and in greater engagement with academic and non-academic partners beyond the UK;
 and impact literacy, connecting our research base to beneficiaries, underpinned by a clear concept
 of where and how our research makes a difference.
          The remainder of this section describes progress against these priorities (details on
 recruitment are described in 2.1, research mentoring in 2.2, postgraduate development in 2.3; and
 strengthening research support in 3.2):

 i) improved articulation of our research through the creation of new School structures
 within the Faculty reorganisation: The architecture of politics and international studies at King’s
 was still relatively new at the point of REF2014, with the Departments of Political Economy and
 the Global Institutes all under five years old, and with EIS based in the Faculty of Arts &
 Humanities. A major change in the current reporting period was the reorganisation of the Faculty,
 effective from August 2016, and the creation within it of the School of Politics & Economics, the
 School of Security Studies and the School of Global Affairs. This had the effect of repositioning
 EIS and King’s Russia Institute, more firmly highlighting their theoretical, empirical and
 methodological congruence with other departments, and also refocusing the contributions of area
 studies within broader politics and international studies dialogues. The decision to restructure
 Department of Middle Eastern Studies in October 2018, replacing it with a new cross-Faculty
 Institute, and integrating existing researchers within DPE and DWS, is evidence of flexibility as
 relatively new units develop. EIS’ integration with SSPP was further assured by the appointment
 of Meyer as the Faculty Vice-Dean (Research, 2016-2020). His was one of several key roles in
 the Faculty and institutional leadership played by researchers from the UoA, helping to ensure

                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that the needs and concerns of the politics and international studies community have been
 represented in wider strategic considerations. These positions include, at King’s-level: Vice-
 Principal and Vice-President for i) international (Olonisakin) and ii) education (Phillips) and
 Directors of the London Interdisciplinary Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership (LISS-
 DTP) (Jabri, Talani); and at Faculty-level: Vice-Deans for Research (Meyer), Education (Fagan),
 International (Gearson), and the Faculty’s London Champion (John). In addition, and though
 returned through UoA28, Goodman – Head of Department and former Director of Research in
 War Studies - was the Faculty Pro-Dean for Impact and is now the cross-King’s College Dean for
 Research Impact.
         Overall, the reorganisation in the reporting period created a stable context for expansion,
 strengthened departmental and institute research environments, encouraged deeper collaboration
 across departments and institutes, embedded specialised support services for research, and
 established governance structures designed to deliver research excellence and impact.

 ii) the consolidation of emerging and new collaborative cultures within and across the
 UoA’s constituent units: Throughout the reporting period, but in particular since the Faculty
 reorganisation, researchers have benefited from a focus on research groups as vehicles to support
 excellent research and to develop links with others working on related questions in different
 contexts. The organisational frame of departments supports more than 30 research groups in
 substantive areas of interest, each with a departmental base but open to all staff and postgraduate
 researchers in the politics and international studies community (and beyond). The model for
 research groups varies, though in all contexts they foster dynamic group interaction and the
 sparking of ideas, valuing the contribution of early career researchers (who often taking active
 roles in running group events). Research groups: i) run research activities, including conferences,
 workshops, seminars, manuscript development events, and networking; ii) provide a community
 for reviewing planned publications before submission, to ensure high-quality outputs; iii) provide
 a forum for the development of research grant applications; iv) provide a forum for informal
 mentoring of all colleagues; and v) encourage collaboration and provide a structure for inviting
 others to engage.
          Though it is not practical to describe each research group, examples illustrate their broader
 cross-departmental and outward-facing nature. These include the European Foreign Policy
 Research Group, with researchers from EIS, DPE, KRI, IMES, DSD, DWS, including
 postgraduates, visiting fellows and external members, focused on the cross-departmental theme
 of crises in the domain of foreign policy. Anchored within Security Studies, the Environmental
 Research Group connects War Studies and Defence Studies with Geography and Law around the
 international, national and human security repercussions of climate change and biodiversity loss,
 while the Conflict and Health Research Group explores relationships between security and health
 in fragile and conflict-affected states (bringing together researchers from DWS, ALC, DSD, DPE,
 Cancer Studies, Global Health, Women’s Health, Epidemiology, and Psychological Medicine).
          Such endeavours have sought to create critical mass, raising awareness of research
 across the UoA and increasing the potential for collaborations. One direct outcome of this was
 King’s collaboration on a five-year framework contract with the European Parliament (2019) for
 foreign policy and defence expertise. Instigated by Meyer and building on networks forged through
 the European Foreign Policy research group, UoA19 researchers bid for three of six available lots,
 in collaboration with a consultancy (the main contractor, to whom we are the subcontractor),
 winning a contract in all three, two of which as first ranked contractor: Lot 1, £240k [EU
 Enlargement, Eastern Neighbourhood, Northern policies, non-EU European countries, EEA,
 Russia and Central Asia, led by Greene]; Lot 2, Southern Neighbourhood and Greater Middle
 East, £200k [Hill]; and Lot 4, Security and Defence, £470k [Meyer]). In all, 19 Category A staff
 from the UoA are involved in this work, covering EIS, KRI, DPE, DWS, IMES, DSD (Berenson,
 Deyermond, German, Greene, Gwiazda, Hill, Kamel, Karagiannis, Kienzle, Kupatadze,
 Meyer, Pacheco Pardo, Roccu, Sagramoso, Sharafutdinova, Stevens, Strizel, Talani and
 Vatansever), plus nine other KCL researchers either beyond the UoA or otherwise not Category
 A staff in this submission. While not research per se, this contract demonstrates the breadth and
 depth of our UoA, has raised the visibility and engagement of King’s politics and international
 studies with the European Parliament and its own audiences, has stimulated activities that will
 underpin subsequent research and outputs (such as interviews), and has led to further rapid

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commissions for evidence and insight in the context of Covid-19 (e.g. the pandemic’s impacts on
 security and defence).
          In addition, UoA19 researchers belong to networks stretching beyond the UoA, such as
 Gender Studies at King’s (established 2018) bringing together researchers examining the
 influence of gender relations in politics, society, culture and the economy (Boesten, Chisholm,
 Olonisakin), closely linked to the Faculty’s Visual Embodied Methodologies group, and the
 Feminist Security Studies Reading Group. The Economics at King’s research group (established
 2019) connects multiple researchers across Political Economy and International Development to
 those in the King’s Business School, hosting interdisciplinary seminars and providing a forum for
 the development of working papers. Beyond these research groups, the King’s Russia Institute
 has also instituted manuscript development workshops for scholars in the early stages of
 producing major new books on Russian or post-Soviet politics, sociology or economics. This
 includes those beyond King’s, helping to expose our early-career researchers to an even wider
 range of expertise, raising the visibility of King’s as a convening hub for broader discussions in
 politics and international studies, and helping to increase international networks for the benefit of
 future research and collaboration.

 iii) establishing practical research infrastructure and processes that support research
 excellence and increases the likelihood, productivity and quality of interdisciplinary
 working across the range of research themes represented in the UoA: The reorganisation
 lay the foundations for a multi-layered, responsive and supportive system of research governance.
 The Faculty (and its Research Strategy) provides much of the day-to-day structure and support
 within which UoA19 departments and institutes can nurture research and researchers. At Faculty
 level, there is a Vice Dean for Research (Meyer 2016-2020), an Associate Dean for Impact and
 Innovation, and an Associate Dean for Doctoral Studies. Strategic and practical support for
 research grants is provided by a Research Development Manager (see 3.2). The Faculty research
 function, led by the Faculty Research Manager, provides pump-priming and matched-funding, and
 supports policy and practice relating to research governance. Each School has a Research
 Manager (posts created with the reorganisation), offering research support to academics, and
 working as a network to ensure effective communication across the UoA. Each department and
 institute has an academic Research Lead, an Impact Lead, a PGR Lead, a Research Committee,
 and seed-funding account. Internal research funding is available both through specific, regular
 calls and ad hoc calls around areas of strategic opportunities or researcher need.
          For example, over the reporting period, the Faculty Research Fund, which makes awards
 once a year (twice a year until 2018) has supported 27 projects from Category A UoA staff in this
 submission, to a value of £224,718 (not including six other UoA-relevant awards made to
 researchers who have since left King’s, and not including other funding committed by departments
 in the applications). 20 of these grants were for research grant development (for example, Mitton
 to establish research on urban violence, since securing funding from the British Academy and
 AHRC) and 7 for establishing new networks with national and international collaborators, both
 academic and non-academic. In addition, the Faculty have funded two UoA-related three-year
 PhD studentships though the mechanism of the Faculty Research Fund. One such studentship in
 quantitative political economy, is a clear example of the intellectual catalyst that such mechanisms
 can provide; in this case, providing a specific motivation for multiple researchers to define a priority
 (co-applicants: Birch, Bol, Cavatorta, Hargreaves Heap, Jennings, Koop, Leon, Matakos,
 Ruiz-Rufino), galvanising the strategy of a newly established research group in quantitative
 political economy. The Faculty also made available a rapid response call in the spring of 2020 for
 research arising in the context of the (then emerging) Covid-19 pandemic. Researchers from
 UoA19 were awarded more than £20,000 for: Rogers (a member of the Scientific Advisory Group
 for Emergencies, SAGE) on enhancing the impact and sustainability of pro-social behaviours,
 Pacheco Pardo, on learning lessons from the context of East Asia, and Tillin, for developing a
 data platform on the responses of decentralised government in India. The College’s own funding
 call to support Covid-19 research in Spring 2020 made several awards involving UoA19
 researchers: Meyer’s contribution to the Policy Institute’s (and Institute of Psychology, Psychiatry
 & Neuroscience) high-profile survey on misperceptions, expectations, attitudes and behaviour;
 Hargreaves Heap, Koop, Matakos on maximising the effectiveness of policy given citizens’
 preferences over multi-dimensional trade-offs (the PhD student, noted above, is a co-investigator);

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moran with Cancer Studies and Defence Studies on wargaming and strategic decision-making to
 prevent pandemics; and John on ‘nudging’ during crises.
          Separately, the Faculty and the Provost for Arts & Sciences also supported a Postdoctoral
 Research Project Fellowship in which researchers could bid for six months of postdoc time to
 support the development of a major grant, into which a post for the Fellow would be written. One
 major success to come from this scheme was an ESRC award for Tansey (see 3.1). Similarly, the
 King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowship scheme, which gives students the opportunity to work as
 research assistants over the summer, for example with Farquhar, 150 hours of paid research
 assistance for his new research agenda on the Egyptian police apparatus. In addition, through ad hoc
 internal funding calls from the Faculty Research Leadership team, pump-priming has been made
 available for projects that focus on developing methods. Examples include: exploring virtual
 reality’s role in promoting the development of social skills among adolescents growing up in a
 context of chronic conflict (Cavatorta, with a private sector technology company and the
 Palestinian Ministry of Education); and support for a new collaborative hub, Visual, Embodied and
 Arts-Based Methodologies in the Social Sciences (Boesten, Kerr). New international
 collaborations were established via 26 awards (£100,084) from the King’s Worldwide Fund,
 supporting collaborations with more than 70 HEIs, museums, government units and NGOs in more
 than 20 countries (see 4.1).
          The goal of stimulating and enabling interdisciplinary connections has been greatly
 facilitated by the King’s Together scheme. This catalytic internal seed funding commenced in
 autumn 2016 and has run twice a year since, making awards of up to £20,000 with an explicit
 cross-disciplinary emphasis. In the reporting period, UoA19 researchers have been involved in
 thirteen King’s Together awards, with a combined value of £248,286. Collaborations include, for
 example, i) those between researchers from UoA19 (e.g. EIS [Boutieri] with Political Economy
 [Iqtidar] on social justice in neoliberal polities (also Institut des Hautes Etudes, Tunis, and the
 Council for Islamic Ideology)); ii) those with one UoA19 unit working with others beyond (e.g. War
 Studies [Moran] with Informatics and Geography on modelling the emergence, spread and
 escalation of public disorder); and iii) those with multiple UoA19 units working with those beyond
 the UoA (e.g. Political Economy [Hargreaves Heap, Matakos, Cavatorta], Middle Eastern
 Studies [Eibl] and International Development (non-UoA19) on the long-term effects of conflict on
 attitudes, behaviours and institutions (also with Palestine Research Policy Institute, Bogazici
 University, Turkey, and Essex University)).Such projects have encouraged UoA19 researchers to
 work with others on conceptual, empirical and methodological innovation across disciplines.
 Sustainability is supported by the Research Strategy & Development team, who follow-up to
 identify subsequent external research funding.

 iv) ensuring that researchers are conscious of and capable of achieving the potential
 impacts of their work beyond academia: The Faculty reorganisation laid the groundwork for
 governance and support of research impact – central to the Faculty’s strategic priorities to
 contribute to problem-solving of persistent, emerging and global political and policy challenges. In
 the reporting period, a new post of Faculty-level Associate Dean (Impact & Innovation) was
 created; they chair the Faculty Impact and Innovation Committee, where departmental and
 Institute Impact Leads and REF Impact Leads meet to share best practice and discuss progress.
 Impact Leads provide academic leadership and strategic direction in line with the Faculty’s impact
 agenda. As noted, the Policy Institute plays a key role in facilitating and maximising the impact of
 politics and international studies research, through impact training sessions, and active
 contributions to research projects (e.g.Policy Labs for engaging stakeholders in problem
 identification and policy options analyses; specific larger policy syntheses or commissions; or in
 the production of briefings).
          Our researchers have access to dedicated resources through our ESRC-funded Impact
 Acceleration Account (‘IAA’; phase 1: 2014-2019; phase 2: 2019-2023). This support is both
 consultative (helping researchers to understand the potential impacts of their research) and
 instrumental (funding to support activities and partnerships). Relevant to UoA19, phase 1 of the
 IAA supported the establishment of a taskforce on the future of UK-France Defence Co-operation,
 public awareness-raising in Sri Lanka on forced disappearances, and roundtables in the US
 focusing on the role of female fighters in Syria. Following a successful renewal in 2018, King’s
 became the only multi-faculty university in London to hold an ESRC IAA (the other two, NIESR

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the IFS being more disciplinary specific). Within the reporting period, UoA19 researchers had
 secured £175,267 in impact-related funding through our phase 2 IAA. Partnerships established or
 sustained include (but are not limited to): Citizens UK, the Home Office and the UNHCR UK on
 student refugee sponsorship (Ansems de Vries, SSIF); the European Bank for Reconstruction
 and Development and the INGO Immigration Policy Lab on the socioeconomic integration of
 migrants (Matakos); and the Parliament of Ukraine on changes to tax administration (Berenson).
 In addition, the IAA oversaw UoA19 participation in the ESRC Festival of Social Science (2019),
 with public-and-practitioner-facing research showcases including Campbell on gender equal
 workplaces (with the Gender Equalities Office, the BBC, Stonewall, PWC, Thomson Reuters and
 Deloitte) and Moran/Bowen on responding to chemical weapons use (with the FCDO, MOD and
 Cabinet Office). The IAA also runs funding calls for early career researchers and PhD students. It
 has a close relationship with our ESRC-funded LISS-DTP, providing dedicated training on
 collaboration and impact; IAA lead Wilkinson is on LISS-DTP’s Governing Council (see 2.3).

 1.3      a. Future aims and strategic goals; b. How future strategic aims and goals relate to
 the structure of the unit; c. How future strategic aims and goals will be taken forwards
 Over the next reporting period, our main aim will be to consolidate and further leverage our scale
 and theoretical and methodological pluralism in the pursuit of world-leading research and impact,
 promoting connectivity across the UoA and with other expertise within and beyond King’s. We aim
 to sustain and build critical mass in areas of excellence, as well as developing new sub-fields
 through new combinations of expertise, creating and responding to research and societal
 opportunities. Sub-UoA departments and institutes will continue to be guided by their own
 research strategies (all of which will be reviewed alongside a new Faculty Research Strategy in
 2021/22, and a new King’s Research Strategy anticipated in 2022/23), reflecting their own
 distinctive strengths and perspectives. Further investments will be made in new cross-UoA19
 research and education initiatives.
          There will be a focus on potential connections and synergies in the context of strategic
 planning in its broadest sense: to encourage a more focused approach to research grants across
 politics and international studies; to recruitment in one department where that priority may have
 significant cross-unit potential in others; and to be more imaginative and ambitious through
 collaboration across the UoA. We recognise that these synergies are conducive to world-leading
 research and impact, in terms of originality, significance and rigour. To date, many of these have
 been potential rather than actual.
          The Faculty’s plan at the point of submission is to appoint a politics and international
 studies academic lead, formally recognised as a specific duty within workload allocation models,
 to advance collaborations. She/he is to be supported by representatives from each unit, with
 administrative support and resources for seed-funding or activities conducive to fostering excellent
 and influential research across the UoA. They will develop the research communication strategy
 for politics and international studies at King’s, for example coordinating working papers and pre-
 prints, raising awareness of emerging research internally and externally. They will offer advice on
 recruitment for constituent departments, providing input on cross-cutting posts, particularly around
 methods. They will seek to advise on and encourage further opening-up of research groups and
 centres. We would expect to see an upturn in, for example, co-convened seminar series,
 workshops, and conferences, co-authored outputs, co-supervision of PhD students, and
 collaborative research grants and research centres.
          We will seek to develop new partnerships nationally and internationally, consolidate and
 reinvigorate existing ones, and review the offer for Visiting Faculty/Fellows such that a visit to one
 department in UoA19 yields benefits to and from others. We will do more to document, evaluate,
 evidence and showcase the benefits of cross-UoA working, while being respectful of the autonomy
 of individual sub-units to shape their own presence in the wider research community. At the same
 time, we will develop plans for units focused on specific subdisciplines and methods that reflect
 both core strengths and the needs of external research users (for example, plans to develop a unit
 focused on the evaluation of randomised control trials in public policy, in collaboration with the
 What Works Network; John; or to develop ‘wargaming’ as a method for better understanding
 strategic decision-making in crises (Moran)).
          We aim to intensify research that facilitates the development of new comparative
 approaches to understand the impact of context on political and economic phenomena. Our

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recently-formed Global South Research Group exemplifies this aim. It includes staff from across
 the UoA engaged in research on international trends, non-European perspectives, and south-
 south comparisons, moving away from the traditional Eurocentric focus of our subdisciplines. Such
 groups have immense potential in their diversity, in terms of both geographical focus and
 disciplinary expertise; a priority for the coming period will be to make use of such groups, and
 others besides, to the benefit of scholarship across the many and varied research themes
 represented by the interests and expertise of individual researchers.
          A major strategic aim in the coming years will be the bid to renew our ESRC-funded London
 Interdisciplinary Social Sciences Doctoral Training Programme (see 2.3), responding too to the
 changing nature of the PhD in social science. Our aim for a renewed DTP would be the better
 integration of research, in particular methodological developments, with the training provided by
 LISS-DTP. Led by King’s, the DTP provides the hub for social sciences opportunities at King’s
 and its partners (Imperial and QMUL), the DTP provides methods and collaborative/impact
 opportunities for PGRs and ECRs from across the disciplines and is now fostering research
 collaboration across the partnership (for example, the newly formed Technology and Security
 Roundtable).
          In addition to core and advanced social science training, we will continue to develop
 research leadership capabilities among our early- (and mid-) career researchers, consistent with
 the recommendations of ESRC’s Fit for the Future review and the Concordat for Researcher
 Development.
          We will continue to develop and promote the concept of ‘impact literacy’. We aim to ensure
 that all staff across the UoA: i) have a sound understanding of impact and its relationship to
 research; ii) are aware of and motivated by the potential impacts of their work, even if they do not
 consider their own research to be ‘applied’; iii) are familiar with the different types of stakeholders
 who might benefit from their research, and in which ways, raising awareness of the demand for
 research of the kinds they are producing, and connecting them more effectively with others beyond
 their immediate networks; and iv) are aware of the best ways to evidence and evaluate impact,
 and able to demonstrate the positive contributions of their research on society and the economy,
 in keeping with their individual research goals and trajectories. This will be in keeping with a broad
 definition of impact that is inclusive of conceptual and attitudinal change, as well as influence on
 policy and practice.

 2. People

 2.1     Staffing strategy
 As noted, King’s politics and international studies submission has grown from 98.3FTE Category
 A staff in 2014 to 171.56FTE (176 staff) in this submission, a 79% increase (Figure 1). The
 recruitment and retention of academic staff of the highest quality at all levels of appointment is
 essential to the vitality of our research environment, the significance and rigour of our research
 programme and the quality of our postgraduate training. Many of our new hires have been in areas
 that overlap the research themes of different Departments across Schools, and several hires have
 been joint appointments, to formalise cross-departmental cultures or reflecting the collaborative
 ways of working.




                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 60              53                     52
 50       37
 40
 30                              22                           25                     22                      24
                                                       16                                             15
 20                                                                          10
 10
  0
       Department of War   Department of Political   Defence Studies   Department of European        Department of
            Studies              Economy              Department        & International Studies       International
                                                                                                  Development + SGA +
                                                                                                        Institutes
                                                     2014    2021

 Figure 1 Growth in numbers of Category A staff across UoA19, 2014 to 2021; the 2014 return for War
 Studies and Defence Studies included around 20 historians, who this REF are submitted via UoA28,
 therefore the growth in politics and international studies specifically has been even greater.

 Examples of appointments made with the aim of expanding our coverage of core subdisciplines
 in politics and international studies include in the areas of: political science (Birch, Bol, Campbell,
 Chalmers), public policy (John, Kleider, Vannoni, Vantaggiato), political economy
 (Naseemullah, Phillips, Saad Filho – including quantitative approaches: Chalmers,
 Stockhammer, Baines), political theory (Benson, Christmas, Pavel, Sagar), international
 relations theory and methods (Hirst, de Orellana), feminist international relations (Chisholm),
 critical international relations and migration (Ansems de Vries) national and international security
 and intelligence (Devanny, Gioe). These and other hires ensure that King’s now covers the full
 range of political and international studies subdisciplines; the research outputs we are submitting
 in REF2 include publications in all 22 of the subject domains specified in the submission guidance.
 Other hires have been for a specific combination of research with a larger focus on practitioner,
 policymaker and public knowledge exchange and impact (Campbell, GIWL). In addition, staff
 have been to support key aims of the King’s Vision 2029 institutional strategy (for example, the
 International School for Government, its Directorship (Massey) and two lectureships) or as a result
 of international outreach and diplomacy (for example: Hyun Lee, Korea Foundation Lecturer in
 Korean and East Asian Political Economy).
     Our staffing strategy aims to promote research excellence by: i) investing in research
 leadership with new appointments at professorial level over the reporting period, including new
 chairs in Political Science (Birch) Public Policy (John), Political Economy (Phillips, former Head
 of the Department of Politics, Sheffield), International Political Economy (Stockhammer), Politics
 (Campbell) and European Politics (Fagan, former Head of School of Politics and International
 Relations, QMUL); ii) investing in dynamic early and mid-career researchers, often at the vanguard
 of methodological or theoretical innovation in their disciplines: Hirst, Chisholm, Sagar, and in the
 case of de Orellana, someone who completed his PhD within the Department during the reporting
 period; and iii) a structured approach to building careers and promoting from within, with the result
 that a total of 69 Category A staff have been promoted during the reporting period – 39.2% of the
 total, or 46.1% of those now in professorial positions.

 2.2     Staff development
 The large number of staff promoted within the UoA over the reporting period is evidence of the
 effectiveness of our approach to staff development, which includes leadership development
 programmes for researchers, formal mentoring, strong research group cultures, support for early
 career researchers, staff training and, particularly in relation to research, increased efforts to
 protect staff research time and incentivise high-quality outputs and grants.
         Leading Researchers Programme: this competitively selected King’s programme offers
 cohort development and one-to-one coaching on the skills required to succeed in research, with
 a particular focus on developing competencies, capabilities and confidences for large research
 grants. During the reporting period, several UoA19 researchers have been through this course –
 Tansey (2017), James and Moran (2018), German and Kerr (2019). Three of these (James,
 German, Moran) have served as Research Leads within their departments and all have secured
 research grants in this reporting period. An Emerging Research Leaders equivalent programme is
 to be piloted in 2020/21, with several UoA19 Category A staff appointed. While these are selective

                                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes (participation via nomination), King’s Research Strategy & Development team
 convene dozens of workshops and information/training sessions each year, many focused on
 career-development aspects of research grants or linked to career-stage funding.
          Mentoring: All staff have individual mentors who meet regularly with staff on an informal
 basis to discuss research plans and challenges, to offer advice on planning major research
 initiatives, and undertake annual Professional Development Reviews. In addition to the one-to-
 one mentoring system, mentoring is also conducted in research groups – providing comments on
 research outputs in development or early draft, they offer guidance, advice and feedback on
 funding applications, and they serve as a forum for the dissemination of research dissemination
 via regular workshops and seminar series.
          Early Career Research Support: King’s is keen to encourage junior staff to seek and
 achieve career progression. The Centre for Science & Security Studies provides an excellent
 example: six of the Category A staff attached to CSSS are former PhD students or postdoctoral
 researchers within the Centre, testament not only to its leading position in the field (therefore an
 attractive career destination) but to their energies in early career staff development, including in
 securing grants to transition early career researchers from one step to the next as they establish
 their independence. Similarly, former PhD students of Jabri include several Category A staff (de
 Orellana, Ansems de Vries, Michelsen); all have published books and appeared in major politics
 and international relations journals (see REF2).
           The Centre for Research Staff Development (CRSD) provides professional development
 support and training for research staff to reach their potential, governed by the Concordat for the
 Support of Researcher Career Development. King’s has a sizeable cohort of funded postdoctoral
 researchers across politics and international studies. During the reporting period we have hosted
 (listed by fellow/mentor; bold indicates UoA19 Category A staff) three British Academy
 Postdoctoral Fellows (Pugliesi/Patalano; Ed-Badawy/Bew; Hudson/Kuhrt), three ESRC
 Postdoctoral Fellows (Wojciechowksa/Dacombe; Redwood/Gow, Aradau; Ketola/Friedman),
 eight Leverhulme Early Career Fellows (Kennedy/Gunning; Ralph-Morrow/Meadowcroft;
 Asmolov/Greene; Beck/Montgomerie; Uddin/Iqtdiar; Wojczewski/Tillin; Fairey/Gow, Kerr;
 Salisbury/Bowen) and one Marie Skłodowska Curie Postdoctoral fellow (Buscaneanu/Meyer).
 Increasingly we have deepened involvement for ECRs, while respecting their own commitments,
 in order that they gain other academic experiences useful for their development, for example
 Ralph-Morrow’s involvement, as a former award-holder, in our Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowship selection process. We have also run specific ECR-themed calls as part of our ESRC
 Impact Acceleration Account, to help develop impact literacy at this career stage.
          Resourcing and incentivising high-quality research, in particular grants and impact-related
 activities: Researchers are entitled to one-term’s sabbatical leave after three years of service, and
 all benefit from a personal research allowance of at least £1,500 (plus access to other internal
 funding). In addition, major award-holders are entitled to up to £3,000 per year for research-related
 expenses through the Faculty’s Principal Investigator Incentive Scheme, which is used to direct
 overhead income back into delivering and generating new research. Category A staff from UoA19
 had received £98,871 from this scheme since its inception in 2018. In addition to the Faculty- and
 College-led internal funding mechanisms, Departments retain control of their own budgets to
 support research locally. Political Economy is illustrative, typical of the model across the UoA,
 routinely making available c.£50,000 a year (awards of up to £3,000) to support field experiments,
 conference organisation and attendance; an example of success arising from such investment is
 Pennington’s award from the John Templeton Foundation.

 2.3     PGR training, supervision and support
 King’s distinctive approach to politics and international studies research has made it an attractive
 place to carry out doctoral studies, and postgraduate training is a core part of our research activity.
 PGR awards have more than doubled since REF2014, and we have made 339.75 awards in this
 UoA during the current reporting period (REF4a; Figure 2). 16 PhD programmes are offered across
 the UoA: War Studies (DWS), Post-Western World (DWS), Defence Studies (DSD), Politics
 (DPE), Public Policy (DPE), Political Economy (DPE), International Political Economy (EIS),
 European Studies (EIS), Development Studies with Reference to Emerging Economies (DID),
 Russian and Eurasian Studies (KRI), Contemporary India (KII), Brazilian Studies (KBI),


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Relations (joint with the University of São Paolo) (KBI), Chinese Studies (LCI) and
 Leadership Studies with Relation to Security and Development (ALC).




 Figure 2 PhD awards across UoA 19 in the reporting period

 PGRs are overseen by the support, guidance and training from the King’s Centre for Doctoral
 Studies. At Faculty-level, a Postgraduate Research Committee (PARC), led by an Associate Dean
 for Doctoral Studies, oversees PGR provision across Schools, departments and institutes. As
 detailed in REF5a, King’s offers PGRs a wide range of facilities (at research group, department,
 Faculty and College levels) to enhance their academic and extra-curricular experience and
 wellbeing. PGRs are increasingly integrated into our research activities, both through inclusion in
 research groups and, in the case of Security Studies, into the new cross-School themes described
 in 1.2, for which theme leads are responsible for developing a programme of events for staff and
 PGRs that creates an inclusive research culture across different career stages. Our PGR students
 each benefit from the support of a first and second supervisor (training is compulsory for new PhD
 supervisors, and all supervisors attend supervisor training refresher courses every five years). In
 keeping with our interdisciplinary ethos, often these supervisors come from different parts of the
 politics and international studies community (for example: a War Studies doctoral candidate
 investigating the political actions of female ex-combatants in post-conflict in Colombia is
 supervised by Jabri [DWS, primary] and Boesten [DID, secondary].
           One of the principal vehicles for politics and international studies PGR provision is our
 ESRC-funded London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership, led by King’s
 (Jabri, Talani) with QMUL and Imperial College London (£28M over 2016-2022). During the
 reporting period, 32 UoA19 PGRs have been funded by LISS-DTP, primarily through its thematic
 pathways on: Economics, Finance & The World Economy (relevant pathway lead from the UoA
 Category A staff: Stockhammer); International Development, Conflict & Human Security (Tansey;
 Mejia Acosta); Global Order, Violence & Security Practice (Bigo); Strategic, Regional & Security
 Studies; and Politics, Public Policy and Governance (Bol, Pradella). Each pathway includes
 funded and non-funded PGRs and has access to £5,000 annually to run student-led activities in
 consultation with academic pathway leads and supervisors. Some of these activities have been
 remarkably productive; one example is the International Political Sociology Seminar Series,
 initially a LISS-DTP-funded initiative which has since ‘spun-out’ into a DoingIPS network now
 involving not just students from King’s and QMUL, but also researchers, PGRs and postdocs from
 many other HEIs in the UK and overseas.
           LISS-DTP’s remit is to provide interdisciplinary methodological and substantive social
 science training to both funded and non-funded PGRs, via: core and advanced courses; methods
 courses contained within ESRC accredited Masters programmes (available to 1+3 awarded
 studentships where the student completes the MA/MSc programme before starting their research
 project); and the provision of bespoke methods courses to +3 funded students. Courses are
 structured around: Social theory and epistemology; Quantitative methods; Qualitative methods;
 Digital methods and archival research; and Knowledge transfer and co-generation (collaboration
 and impact). With a view to employability, both academic and non-academic, LISS-DTP funds a


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 range of internships in areas relating to policy, academic research, infrastructure development,
 and in the creative industries.
         In addition to LISS-DTP, PGR study of politics and international studies is supported by
 several other awards and partnership agreements. The Leverhulme Doctoral Centre on the Post-
 Western World: interdisciplinary and interregional perspectives (Bowen) is emblematic of the sorts
 of collaborative research environment described in 1.1 and 1.2, resulting in high-quality
 opportunities for PGR students (and, through match-funded postdoctoral fellows). This
 programme is hosted and run day-to-day by the Centre for Grand Strategy (in War Studies, but
 UoA28: John Bew, Maeve Ryan), with support by strand leads from other departments, such as
 Meyer and Pacheco Pardo, and with supervisors across the UoA (Brown, Lebow,
 Leveringhaus, Moran, Patalano, Zanchetta) and beyond. The programme provides 15 PhD
 studentships (£1.05M) over three years from 18/19. Other training is provided through joint
 programmes with other universities, for example: King’s India Institute has hosted PhD students
 as a partner in the H2020 Marie Curie European Training Network, ‘Global India’, led by Dublin
 City University. Again, interdisciplinarity lends itself to co-supervision, with primary supervisors in
 the India Institute and secondary supervisors in Defence Studies and International Development.
 As noted, the King’s Brazil Institute manages a joint PhD with the International Relations Institute
 of the University of São Paolo, in which students spend time at both institutions. Similarly, the
 King’s Russia Institute held an Erasmus + mobility grant from the European Commission (2016-
 2019) to manage two-way exchanges of both PGR students and academic staff between King’s
 and the Higher School of Economics, Russia’s leading social science university.

 2.4      Equality and diversity
 Kings is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive research environment where all staff can
 be supported and flourish, and to attracting staff from a wide array of backgrounds. Our
 researchers form a diverse community of scholars whose vibrancy is attributable to a great extent
 to this commitment, as reconfirmed in the SSPP Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy
 (launched January 2020) and REF5a. Within the Faculty, a half-time ED&I practitioner is
 embedded to work on strategic objectives, and Professor Bronwyn Parry serves as academic lead
 for and chairs the SSPP Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) Committee (UoA19 committee
 members: Boesten, Chisholm, Gwiazda, Ikpe, Martin, Olonisakin). Established in October
 2019, this includes representatives from each department and institute in the King’s politics and
 international studies community. An ED&I Strategic Action Plan sets the priorities of: student
 awareness of ED&I, facilitating a more inclusive environment; a faculty-level protocol on sexual
 harassment and bullying as well as training and prevention in this area; and strategies to increase
 diversity of the staff and student bodies through adjusted recruitment and progression practices.
 The Department of International Development has made an Athena SWAN submission and is
 awaiting the outcome. The School of Security Studies has plans to make an Athena SWAN
 submission in 2022.
          Nearly half (48.3%) of our Category A staff are non-UK nationals, and approximately one
 in six (17.0%) are non-UK, non-EU nationals. Just under a third (29.6%) of our Category A staff
 are female, up from 21.4% in the REF2014. A total of 15.0% of politics and international studies
 researchers self-identify as Black or minority ethnic. A total of 3.5% of our Category A staff self-
 identify as living with disabilities. Our recent growth has meant that we have actively recruited
 talented younger researchers to entry-level positions, and at the same time retained senior
 colleagues. As a result, 32.3% of our Category A staff are under 40 years of age and 75.2% are
 under 50; this has led to a more balanced age profile than was evident at the time of the REF2014
 (Figure 3). With this age profile comes greater utility of initiatives such as the Parents’ and Carers’
 Fund, which offers financial support up to the value of £10,000 to academic and research staff
 (and their departments) to mitigate the impact a period of extended leave (adoption leave,
 maternity leave, shared parental leave, or from caring responsibilities) might have on an
 individual's career progression due to their suspension of research activities. Most applications to
 the Fund are to finance teaching buy-out or research/administrative support for a fixed period to
 enable award-holders to progress key research outputs.




                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 3 Age profiles of King’s UoA19 Category A staff; left: at 2014 (green) and 2021 (blue);
 right: age profiles of King’s UoA19 Category A staff in 2021 (blue) compared to all UK politics and
 international studies academics from HESA return (green)


 Support for BME staff and PGR students operates within the framework of King’s Race Equality
 Plan. SSPP also has a BME working group, established in October 2019, and LISS-DTP adopted
 a policy of ring-fenced PGR studentships for BAME students in 2020. The King’s B-mentor
 programme offers guidance for BME academics and postdocs. The Faculty Disability Liaison
 (FDL) works between the Disability Support Team, departments and students to ensure that the
 support offered for PGRs is implemented throughout their student experience. In the final year of
 the reporting period, we supported staff and students as they navigate new challenges posed by
 Covid-19. Recognising that the effects of the pandemic on research productivity was highly
 differentiated, in the 2020/21 promotions round the University put in place provision for applicants
 to make confidential declarations of personal circumstances related to the Covid-19 crisis that may
 have affected their research performance (e.g. pandemic-related disruption to research activities,
 personal illness, furlough arrangements, dependants’ leave, home schooling responsibilities and
 other caring duties).
         Significant initiatives in support of ED&I within the UoA include War Studies’ Equality,
 Diversity & Inclusion Committee (chaired since September 2019 by Hirst, working closely with the
 School EDI representative Chisholm, co-chair on the SSPP EDI working group on recruitment
 and progression). Comprised of 55 members of the Department, the Committee meets every four
 weeks, has a budget of £5,000 a year to host events, pay student ambassadors, and develop
 training programmes, and presents an ED&I update at every Departmental Staff Meeting. In 2019-
 20, the Department introduced a new requirement that all students (UG, PGT and PGR) take an
 unconscious bias module, and introduced a Code of Conduct that all staff and students are
 expected to follow, which stresses the value of diverse viewpoints and the importance of
 recognising and respecting different experiences, assumptions and perspectives.
         A variety of research events held during the reporting period have focused on issues
 related to diversity, reflecting the substantive interests of our research community. Research has
 led to numerous pedagogic projects to decolonise the curriculum; examples include a workshop
 on Decolonising Political Economy (October 2019, speakers included Iqtidar, Jabri, Narayan,
 Pradella, with financial support from the Faculty and LISS-DTP, geared towards enhancing the
 recruitment of Black and Minority candidates in politics and international studies across the UK.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1    Research income
 Our comprehensive system of support for developing research ideas and proposals has facilitated
 a steady increase over the REF period in our research income, which totals £47,009,509 (REF4b;
 Figure 4). This strong growth is partly a result of the rise in staff numbers, but also the


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consequence of a strategic focus at Faculty and department level on research income generation.
 A brief survey of new awards illustrates broader points from sections 1, 2 and 4.




 Figure 4 Trends in external research grant income and number of awards in the reporting period

 Faculty financial and developmental support for Tansey was instrumental in the development of
 an ESRC open call grant (funded value £545,052, ES/R004161/1) on ‘Democratization and UN
 Peacebuilding’. This explores the inadvertent ways in which peacebuilding measures might
 contribute to repression, patronage and other authoritarian practices. It has already led to
 evidence presented to the UK Parliament Foreign Affairs Select Committee on ‘Autocracies and
 UK Foreign Policy’ (June 2019; also 4.3). Another ESRC grant that exemplifies collaborative ways
 of working across the UoA, the development of novel theory and methods, and engagement with
 international research users in policy and practice, was led by Meyer and Goodman (£527,248,
 ES/R004331/1), on ‘Learning to Learn an Era of Surprise? Intelligence Production and Use in
 Foreign Policy-Making in Britain, Germany and the European Union’, a collaboration between EIS
 and DWS. A third major award through the ESRC open call was the bid, led by the King’s Policy
 Institute, with co-investigator Mortimore, to run the UK’s participation in the World Values Survey
 and research on values polarisation (£863,231, ES/T004703/1). This will be a major source of
 data for researchers at King’s and other HEIs, the first UK participation in the Survey since 2005.
 ESRC has served as the UK partner for two Open Research Area grants in the period,
 strengthening international collaborations: Campbell (£295,216, ES/S015728/1) on ‘The Nature
 of Political Representation in Times of Dealignment’, advancing theories to explain the detachment
 of electorates from political parties, with Leiden and Frankfurt am Main; and Aradau (PI), Ansems
 de Vries and Bigo (Co-Is) (£398,678, ES/S015132/1), on ‘Oversight and intelligence networks:
 Who guards the guardians?’, building empirical and theoretical approaches to understanding
 transnational surveillance, with Sciences Po Paris, University Jean Moulin Lyon 3, Stiftung Neue
 Verantwortung, and the Berlin Social Science Centre.
          Another major success for Aradau this reporting period was her ERC Consolidator Grant
 (£1,556,217; 2019-2024, ERC ID 819213), “Security Flows: Enacting border security in the digital
 age: political worlds of data forms, flows and frictions”. This grant was supported through the
 mechanisms described above (and in 3.2) at each step: repurposing an earlier ESRC application,
 detailed formative feedback through Faculty peer review, support for research assistance from ad
 hoc strategic research development funds, further financial support for Aradau to attend specialist
 ERC interview training, and mock interviews convened by the Research Strategy & Development
 team. Mock interviews included a panellist with ERC SH2 Panel experience, then a Visiting
 Researcher in Political Economy. This grant in many ways typifies our grant support ecosystem
 at its best.
          We have also had success with fellowships to provide researchers with the time to
 undertake or complete a major research output. Over the reporting period, we have won four

                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leverhulme Research Fellowships (Koop, Tillin, Segal, Hirst) and two British Academy Mid-
 Career Fellowships (Whetham; Mejia Acosta). Senior Fellowships include Portes, based at the
 ESRC-funded UK in a Changing Europe initiative.
          We are particularly pleased to see numerous grants secured by new hires in the reporting
 period, with successes including but not limited to: Campbell (as noted above); Hirst, British
 Academy Small Research Grant (£7,215) and Leverhulme Research Fellowship (£52,332), both
 concerning total immersion training in the US Army; Meleagrou-Hitchens/Maher, European
 Commission grant (£168,546) for research in violent online political extremism; Chisholm, on race
 and gender in private military and security global labour chains (ESRC, £16,781); and
 Stockhammer, on post-Keynesian approaches to historical macroeconomic data (Institute for
 New Economic Thinking, £10,907). Some of this success can be attributed to the Faculty Workload
 Allocation Model (introduced 2017) which reduces teaching loads for new starters, allowing them
 to focus on research.
          17 Category A researchers across the UoA have been successful in obtaining British
 Academy Small Research Grants which, while small in value are highly sought-after for the
 activities and networks they enable). Other important British Academy awards include through
 their Tackling the UK’s International Challenges programme (Mitton, Jaffrelot), a Newton
 Advanced Fellowship (Birch), and a BA Global Professorship to build social sciences
 cybersecurity expertise (incumbent: David Gioe).
          Some researchers/groups have been successful in securing recurring awards from the
 same funder, albeit through separate, competitive calls, testament to our ability to deliver and
 satisfy the expectations of funders and partners. Examples include: Kerr/Gow, three awards from
 the AHRC for their ‘Art & Reconciliation’ projects (£290,490; £77,2015; £57,036); Olonisakin,
 Alao and Ikpe with the Carnegie Corporation of New York, three major awards (£818,071;
 £940,357; £910,090) to support the African Leadership Centre and its ‘Future Peace, Society and
 the State in Africa’ programme; Bowen, Moran, Hobbs, Martin, Williams with the John D. and
 Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation (£239,578; £213,858; £409,899), and the Carnegie
 Corporation of New York, to support work on trust in the global nuclear regime, and nuclear
 security training and education; and Lewis with the Gatsby Foundation, to support research on
 technician skills training and UK industrial policy (four awards, 2014-2019).
          While continuing to push for prestigious UK research council and ERC funding, we have
 also sought to diversify our portfolio of funders. Accordingly, much of our funding is international
 in nature, with awards including: the Korea Foundation (Hyun Lee, £28,989), the Independent
 Research Fund, Denmark (Gunning, £50,683), the Smith Richardson Foundation, US (Hill,
 £149,731), the CCKF Chiang-Ching Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange (Vidra,
 £45,575), the Noble Foundation, Poland (Maltby, £30,000; Gwiazda, £43,435), and the Swedish
 Research Council (Honig, £23,500).
          Our researchers are often involved as co-investigators on bids submitted by, and primarily
 framed in, other disciplines or disciplinary traditions. These include: a £2,462,594 ESRC Global
 Challenges Research Fund award to the Institute of Cancer Policy and the Conflict & Health
 Research Group, which has supported research by Bowen/Moran on research for health and
 conflict in the MENA region; multiple awards on Emergency Preparedness from the National
 Institute for Health Research (£1,889,828; £809,054), which has allowed a cross-disciplinary team
 from health, psychology and policy perspectives to understand and advise government on the
 Covid-19 pandemic (Rogers; REF3); a £682,672 EPSRC project led by Informatics at King’s (with
 the LSE) on a combined technological and socio-economic approach to freeing affected
 communities from anti-vehicle landmines (Ikpe) and a Leverhulme Research Project Grant on
 ‘Wartime Shakespeare: The Fashioning of Public Opinion Through Performance’ (Lebow, Honig
 with colleagues in Arts & Humanities, £180,437).

 3.2     Infrastructure and facilities
 Given its distribution over multiple departments, our UoA19 research community is primarily
 located in three sites at our central London Strand campus – Bush House (DPE, KRI, IMES, DID
 and the other Global Institutes), Virginia Woolf Building (EIS and the Policy Institute [including
 GIWL, UKICE, IfSG]) and the King’s Building (War Studies) – as well as the Defence Studies
 Department in Shrivenham, Wiltshire. This gives a centre of gravity to politics and international
 relations at King’s, but preserves the unique requirements of Defence Studies, namely the

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 teaching contract for the MOD at the Joint Services Command & Staff College. The Faculty mainly
 has, then, a central London location that offers easy access to major research libraries, including
 the British library, Senate House and neighbouring university libraries. The location in London also
 allows staff easy access to events and networks held at Westminster by think tanks and research
 institutes such as Chatham House, RUSI, CER and IISS, as well as convenient and relatively rapid
 access to mainland Europe’s universities, institutions, and think-tanks.
          One of the major developments in infrastructure and facilities over the reporting period was
 the opening of new academic accommodation at Bush House. This provides excellent space for
 the co-location of research students, postdocs and research assistants, together with researchers
 and professional services. Departmental spaces include informal and workshopareas, and add a
 soft element of collegiality to the hard infrastructure of committees and procedures. Additionally,
 a major development this period was the creation of the Bush House Exchange – a space for
 imaginative research-based public and cultural engagement, as well as providing a site for
 collaborations and participatory research. UoA researchers have made good use of our high-
 quality venues to stage well-attended exhibitions during the reporting period. These include: in the
 Inigo Rooms at Somerset House, a ‘Traces of War’ exhibition, exploring the relationship between
 war and the everyday (26/10-18/12/16, Jabri, part of a Leverhulme Trust funded project); and in
 the Bush House Exchange: ‘Reconciliations’, a large-scale public exhibition and events
 programme including installations, dance performances, screenings and talks (1/11-1/12/18: Kerr,
 Gow, part of the AHRC-funded ‘Art & Reconciliation: Conflict, Culture and Community’, in
 collaboration with University of the Arts London and the LSE); ‘Exclusions’ (1/10-7/11/19, works
 created by researcher-artist collaborations (de Orellana, part of the ESRC Festival of Social
 Sciences, funded by our IAA). Lockdowns have prevented a planned programme of events and
 exhibitions since early 2020.
          Research support facilities include high-power computing for data analysis (eResearch, as
 detailed in REF5a), and the support of the King’s Digital Lab, who work with researchers to develop
 software, databases, visualisations and applications for projects and outputs. Politics and
 international studies researchers at King’s are well supported by a range of general and specialist
 library facilities. In addition to the main Maughan Library, special collections relevant to the UoA
 include: the Foreign Office Historical Collection (80,000 books, pamphlets and documents from
 the 16th century to the present); the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives (the leading repository
 for research into modern defence policy in Britain); the Canning House Library Collection (50,000
 volumes on the history of politics and society in Latin America); and the Defence Academy at
 Shrivenham houses the largest dedicated defence studies library facility in Europe.
          Beyond buildings and collections, the UoA benefits from a sophisticated research support
 ecosystem at School and Faculty Level. Researchers are supported in the development and
 delivery of research grant applications by a network of interrelated expertise at King’s-, Faculty-
 and School-level. This support is designed to be both catalytic (raising awareness of and
 instigating participation in opportunities) and enabling (supporting PIs and Co-Is with submissions
 and removing as many of the barriers to participation as possible). SSPP’s Senior Research
 Development Manager (RDM), part of King’s Research Strategy & Development team, supports
 the development of high-quality grant applications by: raising awareness; building capacity in
 grant-writing; providing formative feedback and organising wider review (so that colleagues benefit
 from perspectives of colleagues in other departments); running selection panels for demand-
 managed schemes (in this reporting period: Aradau, Birch, Bowen, Jabri, John, Meyer,
 Olonisakin and Tillin have all served on cross-Faculty or King’s-level panels of this kind);
 organising mock interviews; and liaising with representatives from our key funding agencies, both
 to understand their upcoming priorities and advocate for our own. The RDM is part of the Faculty
 research leadership team, working closely with the Faculty Research Manager (FRM) and the
 Vice-Dean (Research). The FRM holds a budget for development activities, both regular (the
 Faculty Research Fund) and ad hoc (in response to specific opportunities, or to support interview
 preparation), and at all times subject to rigorous assessment and strategic prioritisation by the
 Faculty research leadership team (with senior academics co-opted from Schools, for review). With
 the RDM, they lead a network of locally based professional research support colleagues (School
 Research Managers)in Schools and Departments. Complementing the more development-
 focused duties of the RDM, the School Research Managers support all elements of application
 delivery, including matters relating to costings, sign-off/approval, submission via funder portals,

                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and post-award support. A dedicated Contracts team facilitates commissioned research and
 consultancy for external bodies.
         In addition to infrastructure supporting research grant development and contract
 acquisition, King’s provides specific resources to support researchers in the responsible conduct
 and deposition of their research. This includes a Faculty Research Integrity Champion, who
 oversees research ethics and integrity across UoAs, together with a series of Research Integrity
 Advisors across Schools. REF5a details the College-level Research Integrity governance
 structure that frames our approach to ethical research. The College Research Ethics Office train
 researchers, supervisors and managers, while the Centre for Doctoral Studies runs ethics training
 for postgraduate researchers. We are also committed to Open Access, as detailed in REF5a, and
 are both institutionally and as a UoA compliant with the Concordat on Open Research Data. The
 School Research Managers disseminate guidance and training on open access requirements and
 monitor compliance, while King’s Library Services helps researchers to disseminate their
 publications and research data in line with funder policies and the REF Open Access policy. They
 also oversee the PURE institutional repository, and deliver training to researchers on open access
 publishing, research data management, and REF compliance. Taken together, this means politics
 and international studies researchers at King’s are well-supported by professional services at each
 step in the production of world-leading research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1      Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The departments and institutes that comprise UoA19 at King’s are all highly connected with the
 wider research community, nationally and internationally. Each play an outreach and convening
 role, connecting our researchers and doctoral students to a wide range of external perspectives
 and expertise, for mutual benefit. Given the scale of the UoA, the following section is necessarily
 illustrative.
          Research groups and centres provide the most common mechanism for engaging the
 wider community, running public seminars, discussions and research colloquia that bring in
 academics, policy analysts and public figures. Examples include the Russia Institute’s Monday-
 evening public seminar, with speakers from Harvard University (USA), the Kyiv-Mohyla Academy
 (Ukraine), the Higher School of Economics (Russia), the Higher School for Social Research
 (France), New York University (USA), ZOiS (Centre for East European and International Studies)
 Berlin (Germany) as well as many HEIs within the UK. Partnerships with other research
 organisations include that with Ipsos MORI (Mortimore, Political Economy and joint appointment
 as Director of Political Analysis at Ipsos MORI), which includes collaboration on survey research
 (including recently on gender inequality, Brexit misconceptions and global attitudes to human
 rights), and enables two members of their staff to become visiting fellows at King’s.
          Our diverse global network is supported through research grant-funded collaborations with
 international universities and research institutes. Over the reporting period, grants have
 established partnerships (as co-investigators, collaborators, or project partners) with more than
 85 different organisations across over 30 countries beyond the UK (these are unique partnerships,
 though some institutions and organisations are collaborators on multiple grants). The global
 breadth of these collaborations is shown in the Figure 5. Reflecting the regional interests of our
 component departments and institutes, there are particular concentrations of partnerships with
 clusters of our research: e.g. multiple European and North American partners across the School
 of Politics & Economics; numerous partnerships in the Middle East, Latin America and the United
 States across the School of Security Studies, plus regional partnerships related to the global
 institutes. Large grants sustain international networks with partners in multiple countries, such as
 the AHRC-GCRF interdisciplinary research hub (War Studies) with colleagues in Colombia,
 Uganda, Sri Lanka, Iraq and others. In all cases, these collaborations speak to an approach to
 research that is international in outlook and that works with leading organisations in country. In
 addition, as noted in 1.2, the King’s Worldwide Fund has supported collaborations between UoA19
 researchers and partners in more than 20 countries, in particular the United States, Singapore,
 India, Germany and Australia.



                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 5 Map showing countries in which UoA Category A staff are part of research grant funded
 collaborations during the reporting period

 In addition, Category A staff have carried out in-depth research in more than 95 countries (as in
 our REF2 outputs) and there are many valuable partnerships that exist beyond the formal
 collaboration on project-specific research grants. These primarily relate to research groups and
 broader engagement with the research community, through visiting research appointments
 (individual-level) and partnerships (unit-level). Concerning individuals, over the reporting period,
 UoA19 researchers have held 48 visiting professorships or fellowships at other universities around
 the world, including Harvard, Princeton, Sciences Po, the European University Institute, the
 University of São Paulo, and the Japan Maritime and Staff College. In addition, they have held 10
 associate/visiting positions at think-tanks and other non-university research institutions, such as
 RUSI, the Global Labour Organization, and the Institute for Public Policy Research. Units across
 the UoA have also hosted a significant number of visiting professors/fellows/researchers over the
 period, all of whom make vital contributions to our environment by participating in research
 seminars, presenting working papers, and acting as informal PhD supervisors where appropriate.
 Research grants may be a direct consequence of such engagement, as for example in Middle
 Eastern Studies (Visiting Senior Research Fellow, Alison Pargeter, successfully collaborated with
 Hill for a project funded by the Smith Richardson Foundation).
          At the unit-level, many departments and institutes have collaborative agreements with
 partners around the world. Illustrative examples include: the King’s Russia Institute, with University
 of North Carolina (Chapel Hill, USA) and the European University at St Petersburg (Russia) to
 create a PhD consortium designed to create new competencies in quantitative methods, data
 science, and in-situ field research; Political Economy’s Centre for the Study of Governance &
 Society developing a programme of international collaborations, including with the Ostrom
 Workshop in Indiana University Bloomington (USA); and the joint PhD between King’s Brazil
 Institute and the Institute of International Relations at the University of São Paulo.

 4.2      Contributions to the wider research base and recognitions for the development of
 the field
 Many members of our UoA19 research community hold editorship of major journals (more than
 20) or series in the field. These include Security Dialogue (Aradau, 2013-18), European Journal
 of Political Theory (Douglass, 2017-), International Review of Administrative Studies (Massey,
 2014-), West European Politics (Menon, 2013-18), New Political Economy (Muzaka, 2014-), and
 the Journal of Regional and Federal Studies (Tillin, 2016). In addition, 101 editorial board
 membership positions were held by research across the UoA. Researchers have also contributed
 to the wider community through service for research councils and other funders, including for
 example: Phillips appointed to lead the ESRC’s Trust and Global Governance programme, with
 input from Birch and Meyer at an expert workshop to determine the nature of subsequent funding
 calls; panel membership for the British Academy and DfID’s Anti-Corruption Evidence programme
 (Birch); for ESRC’s Governance after Brexit programme (Menon); and for the ORA and UKRI
 FLF (Jabri).

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Research excellence has been recognised through the award of numerous honours and
 elected appointments. These include, within the reporting period: Fellows of the British Academy
 (Lebow, 2017 for distinction in the cultural and psychological foundations of political behaviour
 and its analysis); Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (Phillips, 2016; Birch, Campbell
 and Portes, 2018; Menon, 2019; Meyer 2020); Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (Maher,
 2019); Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Birch, 2016); elected member of the Académie
 des Sciences Morales et Politiques (Jaffrelot, 2019). In addition, Rogers received an OBE in the
 2018 New Years’ Honours List for services to academia and government.
          Outstanding and world-leading research outputs from across UoA19 have been
 recognised throughout the reporting period by leading learned societies, international publishers,
 literary prizes and funders. Such prizes attest to the significance of King’s research in these fields,
 judged to be original, rigorous and greatly contributing to advancing thinking in the field, both in
 terms of specific outputs and bodies of work over individuals’ careers. Output-related prizes for
 research produced in the reporting period include: i) books (Lebow, Choice Outstanding
 Academic Title Award, 2014; Jaffrelot, Brienne Prize for geopolitics, Defense Ministry of France,
 2014; John, W.J.M. Mackenzie Book Prize for political science, from the Political Studies
 Association, 2017; Cheng, Conflict Research Society Book of the Year Prize, 2019; Shortland,
 Douglass North Best Book Award in institutional and organisational economics, 2020; Meyer, The
 2021 Best Book Prize of the International Studies Association overall, as well as by the
 International Communication Section), as well as honourable mention for Farquhar in the
 International Studies Association’s Religion and International Relations Book Award, 2018;
 Lebow, Charles A. Taylor Book Award for best book in interpretative methodologies and methods,
 2016 and Best Book of the Year from the British International Studies Association, 2019), and
 shortlisting for the Orwell Prize in journalism (Maher, 2016); and ii) journal articles ( Bowen &
 Moran 2015, and German, 2021 Bernard Brodie Prize from Contemporary Security Policy;
 Matakos, Michael Wallerstein Best Article Award, American Political Science Association, Political
 Economy section, 2020); Ruiz-Rufino, Lawrence Longley Award, American Political Science
 Association, Representation & Electoral Systems section, 2019)). Awards and prizes that
 recognise and honour the sustained contributions of UoA19 researchers include the International
 Studies Association Distinguished Scholar Award for Lebow, International Security Section 2014
 and Jabri, Peace Studies Section 2015, and its J. Ann Tickner Award for Phillips, 2018. Awards
 recognising emerging research leaders within the UoA include Sagar, British and Irish Association
 for Political Theory Early Career Award (2020). Taken together, such prizes attest to the quality,
 international significance and impact of our research and the recognition of its associated outputs
 across a range of UoA19 fields. In addition, Menon has won awards that recognised his
 contribution the effective communication of research, the promotion of social sciences in public
 discourse, and thereby affecting the conduct of politics: ESRC Impact Champion Prize 2017,
 having previously won the Political Studies Association Communicator of the Year Award (2016)
 and his UKICE initiative winning Prospect’s ‘UK One to Watch’ think tank of the year award (2016).
 Over the reporting period, UKICE has published commentaries and briefings from researchers
 across King’s UoA19, in Political Economy, European & International Studies, War Studies, the
 Global Institute for Women’s Leadership, Defence Studies, and the Policy Institute. This cross-
 UoA representation speaks to the rich overlap of research interests across the UoA that intersect
 with core themes of the Brexit process, its drivers and its consequences. Specific perspectives
 showcased through UKICE, drawing on King’s theoretical, empirical and normative research,
 include, but are not limited to: implications of Brexit for UK trade agreements with non-EU entities
 (Pacheco Pardo), ‘toxification’ in debate and gendered differences to party affiliation (Campbell),
 and post-Brexit defence policy (Uttley).

 4.3     Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 A key role of UKICE is engaging policymakers and the public in debates concerning the UK’s
 changing relationship with the EU, serving to connect research with users, beneficiaries and
 audiences, to whom this section now turns. In addition to those listed above, Portes, as an ESRC-
 funded Senior Fellow of UKICE, has contributed nearly 100 commentaries, briefings and research
 syntheses over the reporting period, greatly contributing to the broader understanding among
 highly engaged public and policymaking audiences.


                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Throughout the reporting period, King’s UoA19 researchers have produced research that
 is of practical utility to the needs of policymakers, reshaping understanding and attitudes, building
 analytical and decision-making capacity, and contributing to the formation, implementation and
 evaluation of policy. Several examples of policy-engaged work, anchored in King’s UoA19
 research, are provided in our REF3 impact case studies. These include, for example, re-orienting
 UK government policy on war-to-peace transitions (Cheng); informing changes to the Ministry of
 Defence’s approach to defence procurement (Dorman, Uttley, with others in the Policy Institute);
 and leading the implementation of the UK’s Nuclear Security Culture Programme (Bowen,
 Downes, Elbahtimy, Hobbs, Moran, Salisbury).
          Nearly a third of our impact case studies in politics and international studies include
 contributions to the parliamentary process. In total, 20 of our Category A staff have given evidence
 to Parliament over the reporting period. For example, Rogers chairs the Home Office Science
 Advisory Council and Cabinet Office Behavioural Science Expert Group, and is a member of the
 SAGE group that advises the Government on the pandemic response, serving as chair of two
 SAGE working groups and contributing to a further two; Menon has served as special adviser to
 the House of Lords EU committee and Specialist Adviser to the Foreign Affairs Committee of the
 House of Commons, and with Portes gave oral and written evidence to Parliament on four
 occasions, as well as the Scottish and Welsh parliaments, during the Brexit process; Blick was
 constitutional/historical adviser to the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Reform, Decentralisation
 and Devolution in its inquiry into devolution into England; Greene served as Specialist Advisor to
 the EU External Affairs Committee of the House of Lords, which led to the production of a landmark
 inquiry into the conflict between the EU and Russia and helped reshape both U.K. and EU policy
 towards the region. Beyond Parliament itself, government engagement is found across the UoA,
 for example: John is a member of the Academic Advisory Panel of the Cabinet Office Behavioural
 Insights Team and the What Works’ Trial Advice Panel; Moran plays an advisory role with the
 Sanctions Unit of the FCDO. Rogers and Pearce sit on the London Resilience Academic Advisory
 Board for the Counter Terrorism Preparedness Network, which brings together strategic leaders,
 practitioners and academics from six European cities to inform city-level policies and practices
 that build resilience to help keep cities and communities safe from terrorism (REF3); and
 Meadowcroft and Ralph-Morrow are members of the Metropolitan Police Counter-Terrorism
 Unit’s Advisory Group. Beyond the UK, six Category A researchers have supplied advice to
 governments in other countries. For example, Neumann acted as a consultant to the U.S. Mission
 to the United Nations and helped draft UN Security Council Resolution 2178 on foreign terrorist
 fighters; he was subsequently invited to give a keynote address at President Obama’s White
 House Summit on Countering Violent Extremism and testified before a full ministerial session of
 the UN Security Council.
          Our strategy of investing in both country-specific and substantive expertise has made us
 well-placed to undertake executive education and continuing professional development for those
 working in policy domains, and we hold several training contracts for government professionals.
 These include: the Eastern Research Group of the UK FCDO, for which we deliver an annual
 training programme for around 90 Foreign Office and other government officials (King’s Russia
 Institute); War Studies deliver a number of training programmes for the Cabinet Office, the FCDO
 and NATO; while as noted the International School of Government has been established to provide
 training and development for those working in and around government and policymaking (1.2).
          Our UoA19 community curates a network of highly influential individuals across a variety
 of policy domains, helping to support research through advocacy and further engagement. It also
 gives King’s a strong convening power, as exemplified by a 2019 event that brought former Prime
 Minster of Australia Julia Gillard together with former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to
 launch the Global Institute for Women’s Leadership’s new World Questions event series, as well
 as by the participation of former Prime Minister Tony Blair in an event on 120 Years of the Labour
 Party (2020). Former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan gave a talk in DWS (2014), as did Dame
 Stella Rimington, former Head of MI6 (2018). Our networks are enhanced by prestigious visiting
 fellows and professors, many of whom are drawn from the highest levels of government. These
 include Dame Margaret Hodge, former Minister for Work and Pensions and former Minister for
 Culture; Sir David Omand, former Director of GCHQ; Ambassador Shyam Saran, former Indian
 Foreign Secretary; Yanis Varoufakis, former Finance Minister of Greece; and Lord David Willets,
 former Minister of State for Universities and Science.

                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Contributions to the public conversation around politics and international studies is
 common across the UoA, with many researchers regularly engaged in interviews and opinion
 pieces for national and international print and broadcast media. Examples of print media include:
 the Daily Telegraph; Financial Times; Foreign Policy; the New Statesman; the Washington Post.
 Examples of broadcast media include Al Jazeera, the BBC, CNN, the New York Times and
 numerous others. Such activities contribute to the wider recognition of King’s politics and
 international studies research and its positive contribution to wider debates and understandings.

 Concluding remarks
 The reporting period might best be characterised as one of growth, expanding our expertise to
 create critical mass across the core subdisciplines of politics and international studies. With this
 has come both a deepening of expertise and a broadening of perspectives and approaches, such
 that the UoA community is not only one of the largest of its kind but one of the most diverse
 (epistemologically, methodologically, and in regional foci). It is a period of investment from which
 we can see real impact, both in terms of academic esteem and recognition for excellent research,
 and in terms of the relationships we have fostered with non-academic partners (reflected too in
 our REF3, with a greater spread of impact case studies from across the UoA). Our priorities going
 forwards are to make the most of our scale and potential synergies, enabling world-leading
 research in terms of its originality, significance and rigour, both within coherent subdisciplines and
 across broader fields. This is based on the recognition that complex questions and challenges in
 politics and international studies are best approached across disciplines, and that we have, in this
 reporting period, created the foundations on which such research can flourish and be mobilised
 for positive political, social, economic impact.




                                                                                               Page 25
