Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: Leeds Beckett University

  Unit of Assessment: 3- Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Overview
This submission draws exclusively from two Schools at Leeds Beckett University (LBU); the
School of Clinical and Applied Sciences (SCA) and the School of Health and Community
Studies (SHC). Collectively we seek to improve health and wellbeing of the population
through impactful research, ranging from laboratory-based biomedical science through to
stakeholder-engaged health research aimed at improving health outcomes for people living
with some of the major diseases currently challenging society. Our research is focused in
four research centres in the areas of biomedical sciences, dementia, obesity and health
promotion, and this submission consists of 30 staff from these research centres amounting
to 29.2FTE.

Structure
        Each School is led by a Dean with support from a School Leadership Team. The
Director of Research (DoR) has responsibility for research strategy and development within
the Schools and reports directly to the DVC for Research. The DoR is responsible for the
School’s REF submission strategy and works closely with both Deans to ensure a vibrant
and sustainable research environment is maintained within SCA and SHC. Health research
within the two Schools is strategically aligned with LBU’s targeted research theme of Health
and Wellbeing and is underpinned by research carried out by staff who are members of one
of four research centres; Centre for Biomedical Science Research (CBSR); Centre for
Applied Obesity Research (CAOR); Centre for Dementia Research (CDR) or Centre for
Health Promotion Research (CHPR). The CBSR and CAOR are within SCA and CDR and
CHPR with SHC. All researchers who are part of this submission are members of one of the
four research centres.
        The CBSR is led by Professor Jones and includes three Readers, de Marcos Lousa,
George and Postis, as well as members Galbraith, Gomez-Escalada, Johnson, Lang,
Milton, Paterson, Roberts, Sabir, Sharp and Tashani. Established in 2016, the CBSR
coalesces all ongoing biomedical science research into one group and serves as the focal
point for strategic investment in laboratory-based health research within the institution.
Seven members, including the director, have been appointed during this REF cycle and
collectively bring with them a strong publication track-record that has dictated the key
research strengths in the centre and determined our PhD recruitment strategy. The
institution has committed a significant proportion of QR funding to developing the centre
(detailed within income section). The main goal of the centre during this REF cycle has been
to establish itself as a key research centre within LBU and to grow its external profile.
Members of the centre make a significant contribution in outputs in this REF submission,
with publications in leading journals such as Nature Protocols, PNAS, Plant Cell, amongst
others. An example of a world-leading contribution to the research field from the centre has
been in the purification and structural analysis of membrane proteins using Styrene Maleic
Acid Lipid Particles (SMALPs), which has led to a significant adoption of this innovative
technology in the field of membrane protein structural biology.
        The CAOR is a joint research centre between SCA and Carnegie School of Sport
(CSS). The centre is co-led by Professor Ells and includes one Reader, Maynard, and
members Apekey, Matu and White. Members of the CAOR whose research is aligned more
closely in the sporting arena are located in CSS and are being returned to UoA24.
Established in 2017 and following an exhaustive recruitment cycle, Ells was recruited in May
2020 to lead this strategically important research centre. LBU and the Leeds region has a
long-standing track record in the broad area of obesity research. Ells is a recognised world-
                                                                                      Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
leader in public-health obesity research and will drive the development of the centre forward
during the next REF cycle, particularly in the areas of childhood obesity, health inequalities
and integrating novel technologies such as eHealth to help fight obesity. Highlighting this
key role, Ells has recently won and is leading a £1.5M NIHR grant evaluating the NIHS “Low
Calorie Diet” (LCD) initiative [2020-2023]. Members of the centre make a significant
contribution in outputs in this REF submission and will be supported to develop impact case
studies for future REF exercises.
        The CDR is led by Professor Surr and includes one Reader, Smith, and members
Brooks, Burden, Griffiths and Kelley. Other “associate members” of the CDR who are
located in other schools [such as built environment, computer science, sport] are being
submitted to a broad range of other UoAs. Associate members add value to the CDR through
enabling interdisciplinary research projects to grow and develop. There are a number of joint
PhD students between CDR members and associate members from other Schools.
Established in 2015 with the appointment of Surr, the centre has grown steadily since, with
internal support from the institution and SHC coupled with significant external grant success.
The centre plays a leading role in diverse aspects of improving the lives of people living with
dementia and has a number of ongoing projects linked to such. Of particular note is the role
of the centre in developing policy and practice in how the dementia care workforce is trained
and educated. The impact case study “Dementia” submitted as part of this REF submission,
is underpinned by CDR research outputs. The CDR is a world-leader in research aimed at
improving the training and education of the healthcare workforce in relation to people living
with dementia.
        The CHPR is co-led by Professor South with Professor Bagnall and includes one
Reader, Woodall, and members GthJones and Trigwell. Other members of the CHPR with
a focus on social policy research are being submitted to UoA20. The UoA20 staff provide
an element of interdisciplinarity to the CHPR and work closely with their UoA3 colleagues.
Established in 1997, the CHPR has a long standing and respected track record in the broad
area of health promotion. During this REF cycle the centre has restructured and focused
research projects and growth in the key areas associated with community engagement with
health and health inequalities. Research carried out by the centre during this REF cycle
underpins two impact case studies in this submission, in the areas of community
engagement with health and improving health outcomes in the prison system.

Research and Impact Strategy
       The research strategy of the unit is aligned to and underpins LBU’s institutional
research theme in Health and Wellbeing. In REF2014 LBU submitted to UoA2: Public
Health, and the main strategic goals were primarily focused on increasing research capacity
and intensity, and importantly, instilling rigour and excellence across the unit in all aspects
of our research activity. A key strategic aim was to identify no more than five areas of
research strength to act as pillars for investment and future research growth in the area of
Health and Wellbeing. Additionally, a key aim was to create a vibrant and supportive
research environment across the whole unit that allows all our academic staff the
opportunity to engage in research and scholarship that is appropriate to their career stage
and experience.

Achievement of strategic aims 2008-2013:
  • All new academic appointments are now made with research profile of applicants and
     ability to integrate within the research strategy of the unit, at the forefront of
     recruitment decisions. Since 2014 there have been a significant number of
     appointments from Senior Lecturer to Professor in research areas directly aligned to
     one of our four research centres. In REF2014 we submitted 24.99FTE in the UoA2
     submission, which has effectively grown to an equivalency of approximately 40FTE

                                                                                        Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       in REF2021.This accounts for the approximately 30FTE in this submission, coupled
       with members of SCA and SHC working in the area of health policy, being returned
       in UoA20, who were part of the UoA2 submission in REF2014. Importantly, we have
       increased and improved the research supervisory capacity and experience of
       academic staff, and embedded high-quality research support in all aspects of
       research administration.
   •   We have improved both the number and quality of our research outputs. Since 2014,
       the staff submitted within this UoA have published over 400 peer-reviewed journal
       articles, many in high-impact journals [e.g. Lancet, Nature Protocols, Plant Cell,
       Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, Chemistry & Biology,
       Genome Research].
   •   We have developed further our relationships with national bodies such as Public
       Health England (PHE) and the National Institute for Health Care Excellence (NICE)
       and local government, with many new projects developed in conjunction with Leeds
       City Council and other councils in the West Yorkshire region. We have entered into
       new agreements with Leeds Teaching Hospital Trust (LTHT) and Leeds General
       Infirmary (LGI) and developed new local links through our membership and roles
       within the Leeds Academic Health Partnership (LAHP). We have developed new
       relationships with SMEs through our active partnership and activities in the
       TRANSLATE and Grow MedTech projects (UKRI funded Catalyst Centres), in the
       Leeds City Region.
   •   We have increased R&E income by over 50% to excess of £4.0M and we are now
       competing for and winning more grants from diverse funding agencies, including
       research councils and other high-profile health research funders.
   •   We have increased PhD completion numbers by over 50% and more than doubled
       our currently enrolled PhD student numbers compared to 2014.
   •   We have focused our research into four research centres. Each centre has
       professorial leadership and all staff carry out research aligned to targeted and
       impactful research themes.

        Following REF2014 we conducted a critical evaluation of current research strengths
across the two Schools and areas of research we wished to grow through targeted external
recruitment. As a result, we identified the four research centres across the two schools as
focal points for our health research and for targeted investment in research.
        The establishment and development of our four research centres has been the
most significant strategic decision during the current REF period and underpins much of our
research strategy moving forward. The unit’s research focus links directly into the
institutional research theme of Health and Wellbeing. We have developed three new
research centres, CBSR, CAOR and CDR in this REF period, and focused our health
promotion research into the well-established CHPR. The newly established Centres all
benefitted from external recruitment of high-quality research professors with additional
recruitment of Readers and SLs. Additionally, following an institutional-level decision to
invest in STEM and health-related research, the four research Centres have benefitted from
strategically targeted QR investment. This has resulted in a confirmed 3-year investment of
£430Kpa [2019-2021], with this budget being controlled by the DoR. This step-change in
internal investment in research at LBU has allowed the strategic investment in our four
health research centres to recruit PhD students and cover associated laboratory costs such
as consumables.

Research strategy 2021-2026
     The key research aims of the unit for the next 5 years are:


                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Further growth and development of our four health research centres with the ambition
       to be recognised as world-leading centres of excellence in their associated research
       areas.
   •   To recruit and retain excellent researchers working in strategically prioritised areas
       of public health.
   •   To improve our research infrastructure for biomedical science research.
   •   Develop the emerging discipline of musculoskeletal research within the unit into an
       established research centre.
   •   For all academic staff to be research active and be returned in the next REF exercise.
   •   Increase our research capability in all strategic areas of health research through
       recruitment of excellent research students, with a goal of doubling our PG cohort and
       PhD completions.
   •   Significantly increase the amount of external research funding coming into LBU to
       support the prioritised areas of health research, with an ambitious goal of at least
       doubling our research income.
   •   Grow and develop our links with external stakeholders with the goal of strategic and
       meaningful Category C appointments.
   •   Merge SCA and SHC into one School that acts as a single location for the four
       research centres and UoA3 research, and promotes cross-School collaboration in
       health research. This merger aligns with the LBU campus masterplan to integrate our
       health researchers into newly acquired physical space that will arise during the next
       REF period.
   •   Embed impact as the key driver of all our public health research. All our researchers
       to develop a clear pathways to impact strategy for appropriate aspects of their
       research programme, and allocation of QR funding to support appropriate training
       and data collation activities.

        LBU has an established reputation in delivering impactful health research. The unit
impact strategy is aligned with LBU’s mission as a civic university, serving the needs of local
and regional constituencies, while promoting impact at national and international levels. We
have three major approaches for achieving impact from our research i) promoting
collaborative research with diverse stakeholders, and encompassing dissemination events
with users; ii) presenting our research at conference and events aimed at practitioners and
end users; iii) utilising print, broadcast and social media to engage with the general public
about our research. The DoR actively promotes these approaches and can provide financial
support through QR-funded schemes if required. These impact strategy principles flow
through each of the Impact Case Studies submitted included in this submission. The themes
of our case studies are i) engaging local communities in public health; ii) improving health
outcome in the prison system and iii) improving dementia care through educating and
training the care workers. Each case study required development of collaborative and
consultative work with key stakeholders such as PHE, Prison Service and Care Home
organisation. Importantly each case study is underpinned by a co-production approach
incorporating key stakeholders, such as the general public, in the research process. The
participation of target users and beneficiaries of research in the research process itself, is a
growing and at times an essential consideration for health research to receive funding
support. LBU is a world-leader in co-production as a research approach. Our commitment
to supporting and developing our impactful health research is evidenced by the financial
support and strategic investment in this research area coupled with key strategic
appointments to lead our newly established research centres. Our strategy in promoting the
importance of impact to our researchers and developing support mechanisms, is a
completely fresh approach compared to REF2014.


                                                                                         Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The DoR pro-actively encourages an open research approach across the whole of
the unit. LBU has an Open Research policy that aligns with Research England’s approach
to OA publication and with the RCUK Concordat on Open Research Data. All our
researchers are familiar with these policies as they are communicated regularly in forma
such as School R&E group meetings [Chaired by the DoR].
       Good research governance and practice is encouraged and promoted across the unit
at a variety of levels. Each School has a local ethics committee consisting of a School Ethics
Coordinator [SREC] who is supported by Local Research Ethics Coordinators [LRECs] who
are representatives from each of the research centres. All research at LBU, whether
conducted by undergraduate students or staff, is required to submit their research project
for ethical approval using our online research ethics systems. The School ethics system
feeds directly into the University Research Ethics Sub-Committee [URESC]. In addition to
research ethics issues, the URESC also has responsibility and oversight of issues relating
to research integrity. Training in research ethics and research integrity are provided through
the Graduate School in the form of workshops held twice a year, and also locally in SCA
and SHC through the SREC.
       During the current REF cycle the unit has undergone a radical change in every aspect
of research-associated activity. The significant improvement in every measurable research
metric, provides quantifiable evidence for positive change in environment for UoA3 research
at LBU. What is difficult to capture in this template is the qualitative aspect of the shift in staff
perception and approach to research in our unit, which is vitally important in implementing
our research strategy moving forward. The much-improved research environment achieved
since REF2014 provides a sound basis for implementing and delivering on the 2021-26 unit
research strategy.

  2. People
During this current REF period, LBU UoA3 research has been transformed into a cohesive
unit, focused on areas of strength and expertise. The key to this step change, not only in
research intensity, but quality also, has been a robust targeted strategy of recruitment of
excellent academic staff, aligned with underpinning financial support from the institution to
vastly improve the research infrastructure and PhD student numbers in this strategically
important area. A strong base of research excellence and external credibility now exists in
our unit and this has laid the foundation for sustained growth and steep upward trajectory of
our research activity moving forward.

Staffing strategy and staff development: A guiding principle for LBU is maintaining and
supporting a “community of great people” who deliver high-quality and impactful research.
The Deans of SCA and SHC, work with the DoR of UoA3 to create a dynamic, supportive
and inclusive research environment that gives all staff the opportunity to develop their
research profiles accordingly. Following the restructuring from Faculty to Schools in 2017,
research staff within the Schools are aligned with one of our four health research centres.
The unit’s recruitment strategy has been to appoint high-quality academic staff who are
research active and have strong publication track records in an area that aligns with ongoing
research within one of our research centres. Additionally, the unit is keen to develop cross-
school research within the institution. A prime example of this approach is the recent
appointment of Ells, to lead the cross-school CAOR. A key strategic goal being to generate
a critical mass of excellent academics working in our University-level prioritised research
theme areas.
        Since 2014 the unit has recruited a number of high-quality research active staff to the
CBSR at various academic levels; Senior Lecturers (SLs), Postis (2014) and De Marcos
Lousa (2015), both from University of Leeds, George (2017) University of East London,
Lang (2018) from Glasgow Caledonian, Principal Lecturer Milton (2014) from University of

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Westminster, Course Director Roberts (2018) from University of Bradford, and Professor
Jones (2016) from Maynooth University.
        The two other areas of focused recruitment have been in dementia and obesity. The
appointment of Professor Surr (2015) from the University of Bradford was concomitant with
the establishment of the CDR. The CDR has grown with recruitment of two permanent
independent research fellows, Griffiths (2016) from University of Manchester and Kelley
(2017) from University of Leeds and recruitment of a Reader, Smith (2017) from the
University of Bradford. In the area of obesity two SLs were recruited, Apekey (2015) from
Leeds Trinity University and Matu (2018) from the University of Leeds and most recently
Professor Ells (2020) from Teeside University.
        In addition to establishing and recruiting into three new research centres, in 2017
following review, we restructured research within the area of health promotion. A decision
was made to focus in the area of community-related public health research, which resulted
in the closure of the Centre for Men’s Health. This was in line with our research strategy and
stated objectives from REF 2014 to focus our health research in key strategic areas of
identified strength.
        In parallel with an ambitious recruitment strategy, both SCA and SHC have supported
academic promotions for researchers within the unit. In 2016 White and Woodall were
promoted to Heads of Nutrition & Dietetics and Health Promotion, respectively. In 2017,
Bagnall was promoted to Professor, Postis, de Marcos Lousa, George, Maynard and
Burden were promoted to Readers, and Brooks and GthJones promoted to Course
Director roles. In conjunction with Head of discipline as line managers, and through a well-
established Performance Development Review (PDR) process, the DoR plays an active role
in establishing research goals that are aligned with the career aspirations of staff. The
annual monitoring of research progress and providing the appropriate support for achieving
research goals, is a key factor in staff development and career progression.
        The age profile of the unit is well balanced with a healthy blend of experienced, mid-
career and early career staff, with each research centre having Professorial leadership and
support from Readers. Newly recruited staff go through a School-level induction process to
familiarise with the academic environment at LBU. New staff are assigned a research mentor
from that centre to assist in embedding the new staff member into the research group and
School research environment. Additionally, the unit is well-supported through a School-level
dedicated research administrator and an institutional-level REF Manager with support from
a Research Impact Officer.
        Importantly, since REF2014 LBU has taken the strategic decision to support research
in UoA3 through QR-funded initiatives that aid and underpin the career development of our
research active staff. This has resulted in significant investment in the unit and allowed staff
to dedicate more time to research activities and, in the case of supporting biomedical
sciences staff, to make major strides in investing in infrastructure and equipment. The detail
of this support for staff is in the income/infrastructure section.
        The DoR and Deans of SCA and SHC additionally support staff development in
research through providing funding for conference attendance, research visits, seminar or
meeting organisation and Open Access (OA) publications. Typically, across the unit there is
approximately £40Kpa allocated to support such activity, which usually means all
reasonable [£1-3K] and well-justified staff requests for travel can be accommodated. Again,
this funding is through a dual-funding contributions from SCA and SHC and the regular [not
strategic] unit QR allocation. LBU and the unit are committed to supporting an OA publication
strategy. Staff are encouraged to request publication costs if eligible, as part of all external
grant applications. In addition, the DoR sets an annual budget of approximately £20K to
support OA publication in biomedical science and health-related journals. Annual OA
publication costs for the unit usual land between £10-20K so the majority of requests are
honoured, following an internal review and quality control process coordinated by the DoR.

                                                                                         Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our commitment to supporting OA publication is demonstrated in the purchase of £20K of
OA credit in BMC Journals [from 2017- funds exhausted in 2019], and a three-year OA
publication deal with PLOS [2021-23].
       Amongst the entire staff cohort of SCA and SHC, a significant number have entered
academia from a practice-based background, and indeed some staff are still practicing their
profession (particularly true in AHPs such as Physiotherapy and Nutrition & Dietetics). This
means that many academic staff are yet to acquire a PhD. LBU wants all its academic staff
to have PhDs and the Deans of SCA and SHC are contributing to this goal through
supporting over 20 academic staff in working towards achieving a PhD. This is a massive
investment in research for the Schools paying P/T tuition fees and allocating at least 20% of
deployment time for research for each enrolled staff member. The Schools are committed
to achieving 100% of staff possessing or being registered for a PhD within the next REF
cycle and any staff member can apply to the Dean on an annual basis for PhD funding.

Equality, Diversity & Inclusion [EDI]: A guiding principle for the unit is that we are
committed to maintaining and developing policies and practices which promote EDI. This
principle applies to staff recruitment, retention and development, and in opportunities for
staff engagement with research. The approach of SCA and SHC is to allow all staff the
opportunity to engage with research activity, regardless of personal circumstances, and in
cases where staff are finding this difficult to achieve, to provide realistic and manageable
solutions on an individual basis. To achieve this, both Schools have flexible working
practices that allow academic staff to manage their time appropriately and to engage with
research. Through the PDR process or through ad hoc informal discussion between
academic staff with the DoR or Deans, flexible deployment arrangements can be made for
individuals to facilitate research activity. In 2018 SCA submitted an Athena Swan Bronze
application, which was unsuccessful. Although disappointing, the process of gathering the
vast amount of information relating to EDI across the School and in relation to our research
activity was invaluable in allowing the unit to assess any potential EDI implications with the
way we manage and support research within our research centres. The unit is in the process
of finalising a resubmission for an Athena Swan Bronze award in the early phase of the next
REF cycle. As part of the then developing Athena Swan Bronze Award application, in 2017
both Schools established an EDI Group that meets on a bi-monthly basis to collate, discuss
and assess data relating to academic and research activity for staff and students, to
ascertain whether our ongoing practices inadvertently disadvantage any members of staff
or students. From quantitative and qualitative feedback from staff and students, it appears
that any issues relating to the ability to carry out and manage research activity, for example
time allocation, are issues that occur for all staff rather than any particular group and
nuances exist that affect individuals. Following an EDI assessment of academic staff
submitted with this UoA we did not uncover any issues regarding representation across
protected characteristics compared to overall staff profile in the Schools or institution as a
whole. For example, of the 30 academic staff submitted, 17 are female, 13 male, and there
is a broad age distribution across the group, with 5 of the 30 qualifying as ECRs. Additionally,
there is excellent gender representation at senior level across the submission with four out
of six professors and three out of six readers, being female. An indicator of the success of
our individualised approach to research time management is that the UoA has at least four
staff who have taken maternity or paternity leave on more than one occasion during the REF
cycle. However, even though entitled to request an output reduction, the unit will not do so,
and indeed, all of the staff who qualify for reduction have more outputs attributed to them
compared to most staff not in those circumstances. This demonstrates that the research
environment of our unit provides a high-level of personal support to our academic staff that
allows the flexibility to succeed with their research under circumstances defined by
Research England as impinging on such.

                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research students: As a result of our research strategy, PhD completions recorded in our
HESA return have grown from 12 in 2014 to 22 in 2021. This is broadly in line with LBUs
ambitious goal of doubling PhD student numbers during the last REF cycle. Between 2014-
17 PhD recruitment was through a Faculty scheme, which consisted of match-funded
studentships with 50% from the Faculty and 50% from central QR. This approach allowed
SCA and SHC to recruit 9 PhDs into the unit, with other PhDs funded through a variety of
different mechanisms including self-funding, or external scholarships such as Science
Without Borders and Jane Tomlinson Foundation [Johnson], or country-sponsored
scholarships such as Libya [Tashani]. The move from Faculty to Schools in 2017, as cost
centres, has allowed the unit to expand significantly in terms of PhD recruitment through a
three-pronged strategic approach:

   a) SCA and SHC have actively supported and promoted a 50-50 match-funded PhD
      programme with any strategically relevant external stakeholders.
   b) The strategic allocation of QR to UoA3 has allowed the targeted support for PhD
      recruitment into the four research centres.
   c) The generation of an annual School surplus in funds allows re-investment in new
      schemes, such as development of a UoA3 PhD doctoral training scheme.

         This approach has resulted in a step-change in our PhD recruitment numbers since
2018. Currently, the unit has 12 PhD studentships funded solely through strategic QR
[£264K pa], 8 studentships funded through SCA and SHC School research allocations
[£176K pa], with another 3 studentships funded through the 50-50 match funded scheme,
two with Oppilotech Ltd [SME in London], one with Nature’s Laboratory [SME in Whitby],
and four others through self-funded or international scholarships. In total we have 28 PhD
currently enrolled within the unit through studentships. Coupled with staff-supported PhDs
our PGR numbers now approach 50. The unit is committed to sustained PhD recruitment to
maintain studentship levels, which will translate to major increases in year on year PhD
completions during the next REF cycle. The PhD students have been recruited into each of
the four research centres, with biomedical science being the main beneficiary at this stage
to match the institutional investment in laboratory infrastructure. The third strategic approach
to PhD recruitment is the establishment of the Dean’s Scholarship Scheme in SCA. Since
2018 SCA has generated an operating surplus, which has allowed a £376K investment in a
PhD doctoral training scheme to recruit at least two PhD students each year for three years.
Unfortunately, due to Covid-19 the first recruitment intake to the scheme is now delayed
until October 2021.
         Each of the unit’s PhD students are members of one of the four research centres.
Student progress is monitored and supported through a number of mechanisms. Within 6-
months of start date, each student must undergo a Confirmation of Registration (CoR). The
CoR is a formal and important event, which each candidate must successfully negotiate to
continue their PhD registration. The process is challenging and feedback from PGRs has
highlighted the CoR as a positive and enriching experience in helping to define and refine
key aspects for their research projects moving forward. The process consists of at least a
1-hour viva scenario, with a Chair and two members of staff who discuss the candidate’s
project and proposed work in much detail. The CoR also provides a detailed training needs
analysis for the student to adhere to for their professional development. Following successful
completion of the CoR, each student has an Annual Progression (AP) meeting at the end of
their first year and each subsequent year. Similarly, the AP is a formal event with a chair
and panel, which monitors the progress of PhD projects and ensures we maintain a high-
quality of research and our PhD students are supported to keep on track with their work and
submit their thesis in a timely fashion. In addition to regular formal monitoring and training

                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through Graduate Studies workshops in topics such as research ethics and integrity, each
UoA3 PhD student will receive bespoke training through their research centre. Each centre
runs a formal seminar series and students present their work during end of year research
presentation days, as well as a global unit research day consisting of oral and poster
presentations by students from across the breadth of research within the unit. When starting
in their designated School, each student undergoes an appropriate induction process to
welcome them to the School and research centre, and they also receive a high-specification
laptop. Each PhD student receives £1K during the duration of their studies, that they can
use to attend conferences and/or workshops or meetings, as required. In addition to this
School-level funding allocation, the DoR encourages students and supervisors to submit ad
hoc travel/meeting funding requests throughout the year, which if approved, can be
supported through QR funded schemes.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Income: The unit strategy is to improve the quality and competitiveness of research grant
applications, and to ultimately increase research income during this REF period, focused on
the recruitment of excellent researchers to LBU and improvement in training and support in
grantsmanship for all our research active staff. Additionally, the introduction of enhanced
internal quality-control measures for research proposal review prior to approval of
submission, has proven invaluable in supporting staff to develop and submit competitive
high-quality research proposals. The HESA-guided returns for 2014-20 show that external
research income exceeded £4.0M. This amounts to an approximate 50% increase on the
comparable amount reported in REF2014 and reflects both the success of LBUs recruitment
strategy and support for researcher development in the area of health research, during this
REF period. While maintaining research income levels from sustained supporters of our
research activity, importantly our research income has diversified since 2014 with LBU grant
proposals now winning funding from highly competitive sources such as RCUK and UK
Central Government. During this REF period we have seen an almost 10-fold increase in
income from RCUK sources and a 50% increase in funding from UK Central Government.
Examples of significant research awards to staff include; Surr was part of the EPIC Trial
consortium (£2.1m from 2015-17, £520K to LBU), and has secured NIHR funding for
CanDem, a cancer and dementia comorbidity study (£254K from 2018-19), and support from
the Alzheimer’s Society for Patient-Centred Care in hospitals (£207K from 2020-21). South
secured funding from the ESRC for the “What Works Centre for Wellbeing” (£208K from
2018-19) and was part of the University of Liverpool led consortium that was successful in
the ESRC “What Works Wellbeing” bid [£1M ,2015-18], and funding from the People’s
Health Trust (£239K from 2017-19) and PHE (£266K from 2016-19) for community
engagement in health projects. Bagnall secured funding on a variety of health inequality
projects from Macmillan Cancer Support (£117K from 2018-19) and People’s Health Trust
and Centre for Ageing Better (£124K from 2018-19). White secured funding from Gilead
Sciences international for work into cystic fibrosis (£193K from 2015-17). Brooks secured
funding from the Castang Foundation for research into child mental health (£103K from
2017-19). Most recently Ells has secured funding from NIHR [£1.5M from 2020-2023] to
evaluate the NHS Low Calorie Diet initiative.
    During the entire REF cycle the unit has received an excellent level of sustained financial
support from the University to grow and develop high quality health research. This support
evolved and increased in value as the University transitioned through a re-structuring period.
In the early phase of this REF cycle researchers in the unit benefitted from a variety of QR-
funded and Faculty-funded schemes, which were designed to support excellent research
and career development of academic staff. From 2015-17 LBU offered QR funded schemes
reflecting research experience and career stage, these were:


                                                                                        Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   a) Early Career awards. Up to £5K for research project development.
   b) Mid-Career awards. Up to £15K for research project development.
   c) Research Cluster awards. Up to £30K to develop research clusters within LBU.

       These awards were highly competitive and unit researchers were awarded over
£100K from these schemes to support their research [Postis £15K mid-career and £30K
cluster, Apekey £5K early-career and 30K cluster, Maynard £25K cluster]. In addition, there
existed a Faculty sabbatical scheme, which effectively bought out teaching time for any staff
awarded. Between 2015-18, Gomez-Escalada, Galbraith, de Marcos Lousa, Milton,
Apekey, Maynard, George, Paterson and Sabir, all benefited from this scheme.
    Following the move from Faculty to Schools as cost centres (2017), LBU developed a
new funding model for the distribution of QR funding. While each UoA would receive an
appropriate allocation based on performance in REF2014, 70% of QR was to be retained
centrally and would be allocated strategically following a competitive process whereby DoRs
submitted a funding proposal. Significantly, this strategically awarded QR was to be linked
with longer-term research goals that aligned with the UK Industrial Strategy. Through this
process the unit was awarded £1.29M over 3 years (£430K pa, 2019-21) to develop and
support biomedical science and health research. This research-only budget is administered
by the DoR. Part of this funding pays 50% of the salary of Professor Ells, which SCA has
committed to take on fully in 2021, and importantly pays for 100% of a research Technician
to manage and coordinate the new biomedical science research laboratories, again with a
commitment from SCA to fully support this position from 2021. This coordinated research
recruitment strategy between the Dean of SCA and DoR maximises the capability and
sustainability of the unit’s research activity.
    Complementing institutional resources supporting impact, the DoR utilises QR funding
to provide targeted and ad hoc support for activities relating to impact. For example, financial
support was provided for all researchers involved impact case study preparation to attend
training workshops hosted by Fast Track Impact. Additionally, administrative support was
provided for collection and collation of evidence of impact for all our developing case studies
as well as funding for external review.

Infrastructure and facilities: The establishment of the DoR role facilitated the expert
objective assessment of available LBU infrastructure and how this relates to our ambitious
research goals in health research, and importantly where resources should be invested for
long-term development and sustainability. LBU is committed to supporting the growth of
STEM research within the institution. As a consequence of this strategy, UoA3 has benefited
greatly from research resource allocation, both from School-associated and central
University-related funding sources. In total over £1.5M has been invested in Biomedical
Science research at LBU since 2016. In addition to the QR investment in people described
above, the following has been allocated and invested to improve research infrastructure:

   i)     Repurposing of office space to construct a new Class 1 Microbiology/Biochemistry
          research laboratory for the CBSR, which can comfortably accommodate 12-16
          researchers. Approximately £750K was invested directly into the laboratory
          construction, using institutional infrastructure funding and an internal competitive
          HEIF allocation.
   ii)    A crucial part of the laboratory investment also included a reconfiguration of an
          existing cell biology research laboratory to maximise space and usage in both
          laboratories. Consequently, our biomedical science wet-lab space can now
          comfortably accommodate the recent increase in PhD numbers, and our plans for
          future growth.


                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   iii)   Through capital investment, from institutional and School-level sources, over
          £500K has been invested in purchasing state-of-the-art biochemistry and cell
          biology equipment for housing in both the new and reconfigured laboratories.
          High-specification versions of AKTA protein purifiers, EVOS Cell imaging
          systems, BD FACS, suite of CLARIOstar plate readers and a Seahorse metabolic
          analyser. As an example of our shrewd investment in cutting-edge equipment, we
          have colleagues from neighbouring Post-92 and Russell Group institutions across
          Yorkshire, coming to our facilities to utilise our equipment such as the
          NanoSightNS300 particle analyser, both for access and expertise of use.
          Additionally, since 2019 and coupled with increased wet-laboratory research
          activity, QR-funding in excess of £40Kpa has been allocated for biomedical
          research consumables.

    This is a significant investment of resources for LBU and demonstrates the institution’s
commitment to driving forward our research agenda in biomedical sciences. This investment
has allowed a step change in laboratory-based public health sciences at LBU and has added
value in terms of both the quantity, quality, and overall capability of the CBSR.
    The biomedical science research laboratories are located on the 9th floor of the adjoining
Portland and Calverly buildings on our City campus. As part of LBUs campus masterplan,
the University has invested over £138M in two new buildings; for Sport, and Performing Arts,
both to be fully completed by end of 2021. Once completed these buildings will allow
relocation of a number of Schools and services within them, which will free up space in other
areas. It is the long-term plan of the unit to further expand our wet-lab facilities on the 9th
floor of Calverly building and develop another Class 2 research laboratory. The committed
and sustained investment in health-research at LBU, coupled with a clear research strategy
for the unit moving forward, demonstrates a step-change in research activity and capability
at LBU compared to REF2014, which has in turn translated into significant improvements in
the quality and impact of our health and STEM research.

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Since 2014, the strategic recruitment of senior research active staff coupled with the
enhanced internal financial support for established LBU research active academics, has
allowed a step-change in the level of collaboration and contribution from our academics to
the sectorial research base, economy and society. Importantly, this step-change is not solely
associated with senior staff but is spread across mid-career and early-career academics
within the unit. The DoR and the Deans fully appreciate the importance of collaboration and
contribution to the discipline and proactively encourages such engagement, through
mentoring and financial support (through QR and School-funded CPD). The following key
representative examples are not exhaustive for the unit but cover the breadth of activity and
involvement from across the whole unit, not just senior researchers.

Engaging with key stakeholders in research: Staff are engaged in a wide variety of
research collaborations with national and international universities, national SMEs, national
government agencies, local government agencies and charities. Of particular note are the
links between South and Ells with PHE. South has a long-standing secondment to PHE as
a National Advisor- Communities [since 2014], which has helped shape the national
guidance around community engagement with public health, within the Health Improvement
Directorate of PHE. In 2019 a Collaborative Academic & Research Activity Agreement
(CARAA) between PHE and LBU was signed. Ells is a Specialist Academic Advisor to PHE
on strategies for combatting obesity, particularly in the area of health inequalities, and is
helping to shape the next national strategic response to dealing with this epidemic. LBU has
a MOU with Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust [LTHT] and close links with Leeds General

                                                                                      Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Infirmary [LGI], and LBU UoA3 staff are initiating and developing individual collaborations
with members of these organisations. For example, Lang, Roberts and Brooks co-
supervise PhD students with staff based at LGI and St James’s hospital. Sharp sits on the
Operations Board of the LAHP and has recently negotiated a jointly-funded embedded
researcher in health inequalities to be located within the CHPR at LBU. Many of our public
health researchers have long established links with Leeds City Council, Wakefield Council
and local charities, and contribute time to research projects and evaluation studies on a
regular basis to support these agencies. All members of the CDR, CHPR and CDR [16 staff]
and 6 members of the CBSR have current ongoing research projects with at least one of
these local stakeholders (22 out of 30 staff in the submission). South and Bagnall were
commissioned by the World Health Organisation [WHO] to produce a peer-reviewed Health
Education Network [HEN] report into best practice in community engagement with health
and Ells was asked to provide evidence to the WHO regarding approaches to combatting
childhood obesity.
       Researchers across the unit have established collaboration with a broad range of
national and international HEIs. Our major funding successes in leading collaborative
projects [Surr, Ells, South], include collaborators from Universities such as Leeds,
Liverpool, Manchester, Exeter, Newcastle and Birmingham, in addition to other national
collaborators. International collaborations total more than 50, with some examples
demonstrating geographical breadth include, China [CAS Institute of Biophysics, Institute of
Apiceutical Research, Jones and Gomez-Escalada]; Italy [University or Perugia, University
of Cagliari, de Marcos Lousa, Postis]; Ghana, Nigeria and Ivory Coast [University of
Ghana-Accra, Federal Polytechnic of Nigeria, University of Abidjan, Maynard, Apekey, de
Marcos Lousa, Postis]; Malaysia [Monash University- Kuala Lumpur, Woodall, Griffiths,
Smith]; Australia [University of Newcastle, Ells]; USA [UNC-Charlotte, UNC-Greenboro,
Jones and Ells]; Libya [University of Benghazi, Tashani]; Norway [University of Bergen,
Johnson]; Brazil [University of Sao Paulo, Jones and Johnson].

Public engagement & co-production: Our health researchers at LBU pride themselves
with being at the forefront of public engagement and co-production in research. Public
Patient Involvement [PPI] is at the heart of our major public health projects across the CDR,
CAOR and CHPR. Surr, Ells and South, are leaders in their respective fields in bringing
PPI to the forefront of project planning and delivery, and along with LBU research centre
colleagues work on a variety of co-production research projects, with some representative
examples being; Surr led the “Dementia Care Mapping- EPIC Trial”, which had major PPI,
has presented at a research conference with an “EPIC Trial” PPI member, and has co-
authored a review on guidelines for PPI with a PPI group member living with dementia. Ells
is leading the evaluation of the NHS LCD initiative that is underpinned by an embedded
patient group that developed the original research application, helped design the patient-
facing materials, and is helping LBU to develop a regional PPI centre for developing best
practice and ensuring PPI is integrated appropriately into all our public health projects.
Additionally, recent funding from NIHR CRN has allowed the development of the Yorkshire
and Humber Obesity Research Alliance [YORA] that is specifically designed to bring
together policy, practice, public and academia in working together to tackle obesity. South
has been a long-time advocate for the importance and benefits of public engagement and
co-production approaches in public health. In addition to the significant impact and public
engagement demonstrated in the Community impact case study, the LBU CommUNIty
initiative has run throughout the REF period. This is defined as a community-campus
partnership for health and has been a conduit for engaging the public and community in a
variety of activities including research and enterprise. Maynard and Apekey have
embedded co-production/public engagement in a number of ongoing research projects
defining the nutritional content of African and Caribbean foods. A specific example being the

                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Food Diabetes and Ethnicity [FOODEY] study, which is currently ongoing, and aimed at
providing nutritional data to allow the ethnic community to make more informed decisions in
relation to nutrition and health. Staff across the unit are regularly involved in a variety of
public engagement and dissemination events, either on campus or within the community.
Representative examples being Johnson’s regular annual lecture on aspects of pain
research delivered as part of “Café Scientifique” event held at Leeds City Museum and “is
Pain Real?” delivered as part of the Leeds International Festival 2019.

Visiting positions and Fellowships: Ells is an Adjunct Professor at University of North
Carolina, Greenboro, USA; Jones is a Visiting Professor, College of the Environment,
Liaoning University, Shenyang, China and recipient of PIFI CAS Visiting Fellowship 2015
[Institute of Biophysics, Beijing]; Postis is a visiting Associate Professor at the University of
Leeds, de Marcos Lousa, Galbraith and Sabir are all Visiting Scientists at the University
of Leeds, Smith is Honorary Senior Lecturer at University of Bradford. Kelley is a visiting
Research Fellow at the University of Leeds and recipient of NIHR Clinical Trials Fellowship
2015/6.

Journal editorial board membership and roles: Microbial Cell, PLOS One, Guest Editor-
PLOS Genetics (Jones); Acupuncture in Medicine, Analgesia and Resuscitation: Current
Research, Pain Management, Medicina, and Guest Editor- Medicina Special Issue on
Chronic Pain (Johnson); Health Education- Editor in Chief (Woodall); Molecular Membrane
Biology- Editor in Chief (Postis); PLOS One, International Journal of Behavioural Nutrition
and Physical Activity (Ells); Molecular Membrane Biology- Associate Editor, Frontiers in Cell
and Developmental Biology- membrane trafficking section (de Marcos Lousa); Systematic
Reviews- Associate Editor, Journal of Psychology (Bagnall); Cochrane Dementia and
Cognitive Improvement, Journal of Dementia Care (Surr), Libyan Journal of Medicine
(Tashani), Journal of Hospital Infection (Lang), Frontiers in Microbiology (Virology)
(Galbraith), BMC Public Health, Ethnicity & Health Journal (Maynard), BMC Health
Services Research- Associate Editor (Griffiths).

Participation in the peer-review process: Jones has reviewed ERC Starter and
Consolidator awards, BBSRC (Project), MRC (Programme, Project and Senior Non-Clinical
Fellowships), FCT (Portugal), ANR/ARSLA/FRM (France) and Israeli Science Foundation.
de Marcos Lousa has reviewed EU ITNs and for the BBSRC. Ells has reviewed application
to NIHR, MRC, CRUK and FWF (Austria). Johnson receives regular requests from variety
of sources including Arthritis UK, Pain Foundation, Axa research fund. Milton has reviewed
for the ARUK and Alzheimer’s Society. Kelley has reviewed for NIHR Health & Social Care
panel, the Dunhill Medical Trust and Carnegie Trust (PD Fellowships). Lang has reviewed
for ESPRC, BBSRC, BHF and Tenovus Scotland. Smith has reviewed for NIHR. Maynard
has reviewed for ESRC, MRC, Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene
(RSTMH), Guys & St Thomas’ Charity, Academy of Medical Sciences, and Irish Health
Research Board. Bagnall reviewed for ESRC, MRC, Nuffield Foundation and NIHR. Sharp
has reviewed for EPSRC and Polish Government. Galbraith has reviewed for MRC and the
British Council. Griffiths has reviewed for NIHR, RCF and H&CR (Wales). Woodall has
reviewed for NIHR, Cochrane Public Health Group, The French National Cancer Institute
(INCa), Alzheimer’s Society and Canada’s PSI (Physician's Services Incorporated). White
has reviewed for the Health Research Council of New Zealand. Postis has reviewed for
MRC and ANR (France). Surr has reviewed for NIHR HS&DR, NIHR RfPB, NIHR PGfAR,
NIHR HTA, Abbeyfield Research Foundation, HSC Wales, ISRF Mid-career fellowships,
ESRC, Dementia Centre Research Australia, NWCRF. Brooks has reviewed for NIHR and
RCOT Research Foundation. Paterson has reviewed for BBSRC and MRC.


                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Board memberships and advisory bodies: Burden is Chair RCN Education Forum and
a member RCN Governance Forum; Jones is a board member of Leeds Clinical Senate,
Leeds Centre for Personalised Medicine and Health; Johnson is a member of the GSK
Global Faculty of Pain, and is an expert consultant for GalxoSmithKline plc - UK, TENSCare
Ltd - UK, iPulse Medical Ltd. (Livia)/LifeCare Ltd. – USA, Eurocept Pharmaceuticals,
Netherlands. Brooks is Member of the British Academy of Childhood Disability Strategic
Research Group and Research Lead for the National Executive Committee of the Royal
College of Occupational Therapists Specialist Section for Children, Young People and
Families. Maynard was a member of the Community Education Advisory board for Diabetes
UK, and was appointed to an expert group to evaluate the European Commission evidence
review on nutrition and physical activity. Surr is a board member of Leeds Clinical Senate
and part of the Heath Education England Dementia Workforce Advisory Group. Ells has
an honorary appointment as a specialist academic advisor to PHE, has numerous expert
advisory role appointments including to the NHS Choices losing weight, the National Child
Measurement Programme, Pubic Health Advisory committee for NICE guidance NG7, PHE
digital weight management group, and has advised North Yorkshire Council, South Tees
NHS and the North East region, on weight control measures to tackle obesity. South was
appointed to PHEs Health Inequalities Board in 2018 and was a member of expert group
appointed by WHO to enhance Health2020 monitoring and reporting. Additionally, a member
of NICE Public Health Advisory Committee on Community Engagement and NICE Quality
Standards Committee. She holds an honorary appointment as an academic adviser to PHE.
Smith sits on advisory panels for the Higher Education Dementia Network and Leeds ACTS.
De Marcos Lousa is a board member and secretary of the British Society of Cell Biology.
Kelley is a member of the Dementia Strategy Group of Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust and
sits on the NIHR Mental Health Incubator advisory group. Sharp is a member on boards for
Leeds Academic Health Partnership, Leeds Clinical Senate (Executive Group) and the
Council of Deans of Health. Burden is a member of the RCN Task and Finish Group. White
was a Member of the European Cystic Fibrosis Scientific Committee (2013-2016) and is the
British Dietetic Association’s Cystic Fibrosis Specialist Group Research lead.

Contributions to funding organisations: Jones is a member of the UKRI Future Leaders
Review College and is a Marie Sklodowska Curie Postdoctoral Fellowships LIF Panel
member (since 2010). Surr is an Alzheimer’s Society PhD review panel member sits on the
Alzheimer’s Society Care and Services Research Board, Research for Patient Benefit
Yorkshire and the North East funding panel, and is engaged with NIHR activities such as
Chair of Steering Committee for NIHR funded study (14/197/65) and steering group member
for NIHR DEMCOM project and also is Chair of the steering committee for Physiotherapy
Research Foundation PATCH project; Johnson is Deputy Chair of the Steering Committee
for the NIHR-funded RCT – PACC2 Trial. Lang served as a Scientific Committee Member
for Tenovus Scotland (2013-17). Kelley is a member of the NIHR Yorkshire and Humber
Research for Patient Benefit funding panel. Ells is a member of the UKRI Peer Review
College. Bagnall is a Systematic Reviewer trainer for Cochrane. de Marcos Lousa was a
member of Marie Sklodowska Curie Postdoctoral Fellowships LIF Panel (2020).

External examination of PhDs: Staff within the unit regularly examine PhD theses from
HEIs across the whole of the UK and Ireland, more than forty in the REF period. International
PhD examinations by staff in include, Jones- University of Stockholm (2015), Johnson-
University of Otago (2016), White- La Trobe University (2020).

Selected invited conference keynotes and lectures: Jones was an invited speaker at
CSSI “Heat Shock Proteins” meeting in Washington DC (2014) and the EMBO “Biology of
Molecular Chaperones” meeting in Crete, (2015). Postis was an invited speaker at the 2nd

                                                                                     Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Integrative Structural Biology Conference in Paris (2017) and the International SMALP
meeting in Utrecht (2019). George was an invited speaker at the International meeting on
“Superbugs and Superdrugs” held in London (2018). Ells was an invited speaker at the
“European Congress on Obesity” in Glasgow (2018) and in Vienna (2019). Johnson was
invited speaker at the 11th Congress of the European Pain Federation in Copenhagen (2017)
and 13th held in Valencia (2019). Surr was an invited speaker at the “Dementia Reimagined”
symposium in Calgary (2018), “Person-centred care for elderly people with an intellectual
disability” symposium in Leeuwarden (2019), “Tsukuba Scientific English” Conference in
Tsukuba (2019) and the Virtual Congress of the Spanish Society of Geriatrics and
Gerontology (2020). South was an invited speaker at the “Health Inequalities” international
conference (2019) in Wageningen, and a keynote speaker at the “Community Building
Network” conference (2020) in Milan.




                                                                                   Page 15
