Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire
 Unit of Assessment: Education 23

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
    a. Context

Education at the University of Gloucestershire is characterised by a collegial culture of robust
research-informed teaching, practice-related research and deep partnership engagement. The
School of Education & Humanities combines rigorous scholarship with practical application in
education settings. This culture of scholarship and application is reflected in the rich blend of staff
research interests, from a clear focus on using research to better support students in their learning
to research that informs education policy from an international perspective. Education benefits from
a strong position within the University as it represents the origins of the University as a teacher
training college established in 1847. At the same time, it responds – and is a key contributor – to
the University’s aims as articulated in the University Strategic Plan 2017-2022, particularly in
relation to the core value of sustainability, also reflected in the Sustainability Strategy 2017-2022.

The alignment between these institutional priorities and the interests and expertise of staff within
UoA23 is evident in our four key themes:
   1. Education for Sustainable Development
   2. Engaging Alienated Groups in the Education Process
   3. Pedagogic and Curricular Research
   4. Young People & Families.
These themes represent not only the interests of research active staff but also the pedagogical
underpinnings of the School. They are further described below.

Members of UoA 23 are engaged in research scholarship and research informed teaching,
evidenced in the pedagogical research related to learning and teaching in the HE sector and the
publication of text books relating to teacher education. There is a vibrant postgraduate research
culture underpinned by a comprehensive research programme, which is integrated into the UoA
including research on wider issues such as sustainability and education for the disadvantaged and
marginalised. Together these research interests represent contribution to teaching and learning
knowledge as well as broader educational and societal issues. The UoA comprises members of
staff from within the School of Education and one from the wider University with a total of 8.2 FTE
people submitting outputs. Four are on full time contracts, three on fractional contracts and one
has now left the University.

Within this REF period, the School has cultivated, developed and subsequently enjoyed
considerable success in relation to research outputs (over 80 publications of which 20 are
submitted under UoA 23), post-graduate research (PGR) recruitment and research grant bidding.
This reflects our buoyant research environment where, in this REF period, we have raised over
£2.7 million of grant funding to support our research projects. This has developed from a very low
baseline and is thus a particular highlight of our research environment.

Research activities are organised according to staff research interests, reflecting a commitment to
sustainability broadly defined, as well as embracing a range of experiences in conducting research
in educational settings in response to the needs of our stakeholders. Research projects utilise
quantitative, qualitative and mixed methodologies. The School enjoys OFSTED outstanding status
for its teacher education programmes which draw upon this research base. The School is also a

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
provider of innovative programmes in education sciences which both draw upon and contribute to
the research base; these include studies on homework effectiveness, sex and relationship
education, environmental education and teacher questioning strategies as well as the publication
of books on teacher-led research and primary teacher education. Research opportunities are
initiated through deep partnerships between the School and education settings as well as proactive
bids and responding to calls to tender.

All members of staff have access to Quality Research (QR) funding to support research and
scholarly activity which is allocated through the Research Development Panel (RDP) made up of
research active colleagues in the field of Education at all career stages. This has been instrumental
in the support of early career researchers (ECR) as well as encouraging colleagues to become
research active by offering the opportunity to participate in research strategy and planning.


b. Research Strategy

The University of Gloucestershire is a learning-led, research-informed University and as such
research is one of the organisational strategic priorities, as articulated in the University of
Gloucestershire’s Strategic Plan. This strategy is embedded in the School of Education &
Humanities Business Plans and strategic decision making at UoA/School level, which includes the
setting of research priorities and the development of staff research activities. This in turn is
overseen by the University Research Committee, chaired by the Vice Chancellor.

To facilitate and progress the REF2020 submission in Education UoA23, a Professor of Education
(Hazel Bryan) was appointed in 2015, with a brief to develop a thriving culture of scholarship and
research. The subsequent UoA 23 research strategy was devised with the following objectives:

   •   To provide students with inspirational research-informed teaching;
   •   To embed a culture of research and scholarship within the School;
   •   To enable the development of a vibrant postgraduate profile;
   •   To return a good quality UoA in REF 2021;
   •   To employ University expertise, capacity, skill and knowledge for the benefit of local and
       regional schools;
   •   To appoint early career researchers on permanent contracts;
   •   To develop a national profile for education research in our chosen fields.

In order to achieve the ambitions articulated in the research strategy, significant structural
innovation and developmental opportunities for staff have been established. Structural innovation
has included the establishing of a Research Development Panel (RDP), a set of research themes,
the appointment of a permanent Research Assistant (Chris Jones), the appointment of a Post
Graduate Research (PGR) Lead (Paul Vare), a School Research Ethics Lead (Colin Forster) and
an Associate Professor (Adeela Shafi) appointment across the School. All are ex-officio members
of the Research Development Panel (RDP). These appointments, along with the RDP and the
research themes, have embedded a research infrastructure, culture and identity to support
research activities.

The Research Development Panel (RDP)
The RDP has been the most significant infrastructural development and acts as an anchor for all
research activities within education and with particular responsibility for overseeing and approving
Quality Research (QR) funding. The RDP plays a key role in encouraging research active staff to

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
apply for and utilise available funding in a transparent and equitable way to stimulate and support
their research activities, including conference attendance, writing sabbaticals, a ‘Doing and Writing
High Quality Research’ programme and developing research bids. Involving ECRs on the RDP
alongside experienced researchers has enhanced ECR development by providing a support
network for advice and guidance while fostering a collaborative and democratic approach to
research.

The RDP plans events which showcase our research both within the University and externally to
local education stakeholders. These events are presented as Scholarship Days which not only
showcase research across the School but also provide further opportunities for collaborative
research. The RDP also runs a Research Seminar Programmes for the Research Priority Area
(RPA): Learning in Professional Contexts, which extends out to the local education community as
well as the University. The external facing Seminar Programme presents the University research
to local stakeholders with the benefit of cultivating existing partnerships and developing new ones.
It has also played a role in presenting our research profile and themes to these same stakeholders
and has led to attracting post-graduate research students on to for example, the MA and PhD
Education programmes.

In addition to the above, the RDP works to approve postgraduate research (PGR) student
proposals, moderates PGR modules and designs research development opportunities. Panel
reviews have been critical in strengthening research proposals, ensuring robust methodologies and
enhancing the success of funding bids.

Research Themes
As part of organising the research interests of colleagues in the UoA, the RDP has identified
research themes which reflect the main research interests of those staff accessing QR funding
through the RDP and which align with the Research Priority Area (see below) and indeed the UoA
23. These themes are listed below and have a dedicated UoA web page
https://glos.production.wearesmile.com/flagship/research/research-priority-areas/learning-and-
professional-contexts/


   1. Education for Sustainable Development – With the wealth of evidence on the climate crisis,
      social unsustainability and ecological breakdown it is essential that higher education rises
      to the challenge of creating a more sustainable world. This research strand explores and
      challenges current practice at a number of strategic levels; both Impact Case Studies under
      this UoA demonstrate recognised international leadership in this field and both reflect and
      embody the School’s and University’s commitment to the sustainability agenda.


   2. Engaging Alienated Groups in the Education Process - This strand of the research priority
      area focuses on understanding and developing ways in which to re-engage excluded youth
      with the education process and as young citizens. This theme speaks to our values of
      social justice as a crucial strand within broader sustainability goals.


   3. Pedagogic and Curricular Research - In line with the University strategy, our purpose in
      learning and teaching is to nurture in students and staff the pursuit of community and
      personal transformation. Engendering a passion for learning and subject expertise will
      enable our students to develop as critical thinkers who are engaged, enquiring,
      empowered, empathetic and ethical citizens. In this way, education for sustainability

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       principles are integrated into our framework of graduate attributes and help to increase the
       quality and value of our own academic practice.


   4. Young People & Families - This research strand employs multi-disciplinary research in
      order to engage in principle encounters with young people and their families. This work
      necessitates a multi-professional approach through which the interaction between families,
      young people and support services can be explored.

Applicants to the QR Funding with the UoA are asked to indicate to which of these theme(s) their
application is most closely aligned and to indicate the outcome and outputs they expect to achieve
from undertaking the activities in their application. The aim is not only to determine which theme is
emerging as a focus within the UoA with the longer-term intention of establishing a research
centre, but also to develop a culture of sharing research findings more widely through research
outputs thus contributing to academic discourse.

In the medium term, this will enable us to explore synergies across the research we conduct with
the aim of establishing collaborations and co-authored outputs where this could lead to greater
impact. This helps us to develop and build on research outcomes and outputs in a more deliberate
way. The Research Themes webpage is also externally facing so that PGR applicants can see our
research interests grouped into themes for potential PGR supervision opportunities. Students
have approached research staff as potential supervisors through this mechanism, including post-
doctoral and research students, demonstrating the effectiveness of the research themes and the
developing national profile of the School research activities.

The research themes have played an important role in synthesising work into a ‘body of research’
and have played a role in the research identity for the School which reflects our values and goals in
terms of sustainability.

The Postgraduate Research (PGR) Lead
The PGR Lead has developed a strategy to attract new PGR students which has led to the
development of a new EdD programme (from February 2019) that has successfully recruited new
PG students. PG researchers are a key part of the School research community and are invited to
attend, participate in and contribute to the Scholarship Days and Seminar Programme, thereby
contributing to a vibrant research culture and community. PGRs are also encouraged to consider
the research themes in terms of their own interests, thereby integrating them into the research
culture of the School. PGR are also able to apply for QR funding.

Research Priority Area (RPA) – ‘Learning in Professional Contexts’ (LPC)
The above structural innovations within the School’s Education subject community have included
an opportunity for engagement with the wider university research culture through the Research
Priority Area (RPA) ‘Learning and Professional Contexts’ (LPC). LPC is one of six university-wide
RPAs and is the vehicle through which QR funding is accessed bringing together those who
research learning both within the University and in external professional contexts. The six RPA
Leads sit on the University Research Committee and assume responsibility for the development
and implementation of policies and practices relating to research across the institution. The RPA
has contributed to reaching out across the University for education based research opportunities
for collaboration, funding and eventual outputs.

Research Ethics Panel

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research ethics within the University has been devolved to School level and the School has
appointed a Research Ethics Lead who chairs a School Ethics Panel made up of research active
members of staff. The Ethics Panel assesses and advises on student and staff research ethical
issues. Cases that meet the criteria for submission to the University Ethics Panel are scrutinised
by the School Ethics Panel before being submitted. The Ethics Lead reports to the University
Research Committee and also updates the RDP on a monthly basis, including any research that is
submitted to the University Ethics Panel. These structures and processes have not only embedded
ethics into the research culture across the School, from undergraduate through to postgraduate
research, but have also provided development opportunities for School/UoA staff in research
ethics.

RPA/UoA Newsletters
These termly Newsletters were launched in October 2020, not only showcase the work within the
education, but also to stimulate and cultivate research collaborations. Furthermore, it is designed
to grow the number of research active staff and highlight calls for funding as well as research
development opportunities (e.g. writing workshops, completing funding applications). The
Newsletter will go out termly and it is planned for it to become an established of our research
culture as it encourages the collation of and sharing of research impact.

c. Impact

Within our research strategy, we have built the foundations to emphasise the importance of
research impact with a focus on the School’s research themes. Crucially, this includes a strong
commitment to education for sustainability as outlined in our Sustainability Strategy Plan 2017-
2022. Our research contributes to sustainability by building the capability and confidence of our
students to shape the future through the research-informed teaching they receive and the
opportunities they have to get involved in this research. In this way we seek to empower our
students to stimulate innovation in their own research or professional practice and become leaders
by modelling behaviours that reflect a more sustainable way of life. These are ambitious aims but
we already have evidence of success (Impact Case Studies 1 and 2) and aim to build on this
through, for example, opportunities to engage students in collaborative research.

Both our two Impact Case Studies (ICS), which form part of our REF submission, are connected to
sustainability thereby reflecting our School and University values and mission. The author of ICS 2
is the Director of Sustainability in the University, which is known for its leadership of Education for
Sustainability (EfS) as a pioneer in the sector with our LIFT initiative (see p.6) is the vehicle for
seed funding for EfS innovations.

To further develop and build on our ambitions, the RDP is planning a series of workshops to
support and encourage researchers to consider the potential impact of their research, even at
inception stage, as well as what constitutes as evidence of impact, particularly differentiating
between dissemination and impact. This will be further embedded by asking researchers to
comment on potential impact on their QR funding application forms and how they intend to
generate evidence of impact. The workshops will include ways of involving students as co-
researchers so that academics and students are working alongside one another collaboratively
with other partners. Opening opportunities for students within this has the potential for sustained
impact by stimulating a virtuous ‘impact-cycle’ into our work. We also plan to develop an overall
infrastructure in the School/Research Priority Area to enable us to capture evidence of impact as a
‘business as usual’ aspect of the work we do.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2. People
a) Staffing strategy

The strategy to develop staff has ambitious plans which include ensuring equality and diversity is
reflected in the REF submission in terms of outputs, impact and the environment. This focus
means that we recognise the differing trajectories of staff and students and aim to develop them
whatever their stage. This has meant the appointment of senior positions for research
responsibility (Bryan [Professor]; Shafi [Associate Professor]; Vare [PGR Lead]; Forster [Research
Ethics Lead]) and providing opportunities to enable colleagues to take up Visiting Research Fellow
opportunities. To this end Masardo has been studying at Swinburne University, Australia
(December, 2017). Similarly, the staffing strategy has sought to invite Visiting Research Fellows to
UoG. The School of Education also has a post-doctoral student to join after the coronavirus
pandemic from the Ministry of Justice, Turkey, being supervised by Shafi. This demonstrates how
the Education team is establishing itself as leading research in particular fields - all related to the
key research themes of the RPA, for example, sustainability or education of marginalised/excluded
learners. In terms of support for supervisors, the School promotes training and regular webinars
hosted by the university as well as professional development opportunities provided by the Vitae
network.

PGRs
The School of Education & Humanities is thus proud of being able to support researchers at all
ages and stages and backgrounds in their research career and in doing so we embed equality,
diversity and opportunity in terms of QR funding for staff and PGR students who are also entitled to
apply for the QR funding as part of the research support culture. Many of our PGR students do
take up the opportunity for funding as do the staff which demonstrates that this strategy is effective
and vital for an inclusive research environment.

Equality and Diversity
Our REF outputs are proportional to our staff makeup in terms of gender and ethnicity. As an
education UoA, our gender balance is reflective of our sector. However, we are acutely aware of
the responsibility that education as a discipline has in terms of ensuring that equality and diversity
goes beyond our staffing composition and career opportunities, extending to the contribution of
knowledge generation and of ‘decolonising the curriculum’. In taking this responsibility further and
deeper Shafi (RDP member and co-UoA Lead) is a member of the steering group of a University
LIFT project (Learning and Innovation For Tomorrow). The project is designed to not only develop
a resource base which encourages both teaching staff and students to challenge existing bodies of
knowledge but also inspires knowledge generation which aims to dismantle taken-for-granted ways
of thinking and doing. This is an integral part of a wider movement and commitment across the
University to narrow the awarding gap in black or minority ethnic students; to ensure that the
University is a welcoming and open place for students and staff and to engender the environmental
conditions that foster ground-breaking research which challenges current schools of thought. We
believe this is essential not only for our research but also our students because if we want to
develop global citizens who are focused on contributing to a better world for all, then it is essential
that we embody this in all we do. We expect the fruits of this environment, which has been
stimulated in this REF cycle, to be embodied in the next REF cycle, thereby creating and
developing a research environment which is forward-looking and aligned with our University
commitment to sustainability in educational endeavours.

Having equality and diversity principles properly embedded has meant that it is difficult to ‘un-see’
inequality. Diversity has thus become something that is not seen as a ‘nice to have’ but essential in

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enabling us to develop our students so that they are given the opportunity to access global
knowledge rather than just that which is available and dominated by the Global North. In this way,
equality and diversity becomes an essential component of all that we do and a core commitment to
our students. The LIFT project ‘Decolonising the Curriculum’ means that we are encouraging
academic staff to revisit their modules to explore where they may further introduce material which
draws from a wider theoretical and literature base. Following the pilot, we will be inviting all
module leaders to work on one module at a time. This means that not only are we asking teaching
staff to be critically aware of the benefit of teaching material for students, but we also generate
demand for a much wider literature base which in itself creates research and funding opportunities
from beyond the Global North.

This same agenda means that we are more critically aware of issues associated with gender, for
example, family commitments and how they impact on research time as well as other background
features (such as socio-economic status) which inadvertently create barriers for development. We
are thus exploring ways in which to support staff who are research active to ensure that they have
equality of opportunity.

In this way we are a playing a key part in leading the way in equality and diversity, not just in this
UoA, but across the University for both teaching and research.

Early career researchers (ECR)
We are not only supportive of ECRs but view them as integral to our research goals and pipeline.
For example, Gilbride is one of the leads for the Early Career Research Network (ECRN) at the
University and we have a number of staff who draw on this Network’s support. We plan to set
aside specific support within our QR funding to support ECRs in bid and research paper writing.
ECRs also sit on our Research Development Panel (RDP) for developmental purposes but also to
ensure they feed into our research plans. Supporting ECRs feeds into our sustainability goals and
our equality and diversity agenda.

The staffing strategy has also included appointing early career researchers on permanent
contracts (Tandoi; Screech; Gilbride; Goodger) in order to support their development and embed
commitment to the UoA/School. Such appointments are a significant factor in the research culture,
where early career researchers feel empowered to run seminar series (Tandoi) and set up funded
research projects in schools (Kay; Middleton; Gilbride) with a view to developing quality Outputs
and for which they can access QR funding in order to run them. The education staffing strategy
has promoted doctoral study and this has included funding and time for research (Burch; Ward;
McGowan; Kay; Wire; Gilbride), whether the doctorate is studied at UoG or elsewhere.

b) Research Students

PGR students are required to undertake two research modules and these are hosted by the School
of Education on behalf of the wider university. Perforce, all PGRs work with education at the start
of their study involving approximately 60-80 students annually.

PGR applications are now considered by the Research Development Panel under the guidance of
the PGR Lead. The Research Development Panel also considers upgrades to full PhD and again,
this is developmental for RDP members and represents the developing research maturity of the
UoA/School.


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGRs are integrated into the UoA/School of Education via the Seminar Programme where they join
staff in presenting their work, the evening School research seminar series including our Early
Career Researcher Network, the research methods series and in having full access to research
funding. For example, Le Dao Thanh Binh has been fully funded to present at a conference in
California and Le has been fully funded to gather his data in Vietnam. We have also funded an MA
Education student (Tryphosa Bennett) to be able to collect data from Kenya with an intended
research output in the form of a publication.

In 2019, the last time that the university participated in the Postgraduate Research Experience
Survey (PRES), postgraduate researchers from the School of Education achieved the highest
response rate and the university was ranked 6th in the PRES results nationally, indicative of our
growing research environment. We see our research students as part of our drive to decolonise
the curriculum through new and fresh ideas, but also as part of our equality and diversity agenda
because we engender within them our values such as sustainability.

Eleven doctoral level PGRs completed during the REF.

We have 34 doctoral-level students on roll at present, two of whom have been awarded a PhD
since the July 2020 deadline. All of these will feed into our next REF cycle.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income has been one of the key success stories for this UoA and for our RPA. Grants
monies raised during the REF period is £2,761,294. The income to the institution from this was
£1,198,000 with the rest being shared among our research partners. The bids won represent a
significant increase in research income within this REF period reflecting the growing research
activity in Education from a relatively modest base. They include some significant grants which
reflect the growing reputation and strength of the lead researchers and the research teams,
particularly in relation to education for sustainability, which are reflected in our Impact Case
Studies. Winning a number of grants through the competitive Erasmus+ programme represents
considerable growth within the School in terms of the confidence and capability of the staff. The
projects have also worked towards developing staff teams which comprise both experienced and
new researchers, thereby contributing to our ethic of development within the UoA. There are
several bids within the pipeline representing yet further developing in these areas. These bids are
aligned with the research themes discussed above.

Our research income and the nature of our projects reflects our ability to cultivate local, regional
and international partnerships. For example, A Rounder Sense of Purpose has won over £650,000
with a diverse European partnership and directly maps on to our theme of Education for
Sustainable Development, aligning with our Sustainability Strategy and forming the basis of Impact
Case Study 1. The fact that two phases of the project have been funded by Erasmus+
demonstrates a recognition of how our projects have been developed strategically in order to
secure longer term impact. Similarly, Re-engaging Young Offenders with Education & Learning
(RENYO) and Active Games for Change (AG4C) earning a combined research income of over
£640,000 demonstrates our growing strength within our research theme of Engaging Marginalised
Populations with education, which is connected to our deeper understanding of sustainability which
is rooted in social justice. Our strength in the theme of Pedagogical and Curricular Research is
demonstrated in the Modern Foreign Languages bid as well as the Action Research Projects

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
culminating in text books as outputs. In this way, our research income, contributes to our outputs,
our impact case studies and our research environment.

All our bids are characterised by partnerships and it is this which lies at the heart of our ability to
engage and develop impact over the longer term and develop a research partnership
infrastructure. For example, the AG4C bid is a KA3 Erasmus+ project which has at its core the
need to focus on dissemination and impact at the policy level and international and national
conferences form an important part of it. The research that underpinned our second impact case
study, University Educators for Sustainable Development (UE4SD), involved partnering with 53
educational organisations in 33 countries across Europe.

Leading these projects gives us a solid pipeline into the next REF cycle for impact case studies
and further bidding opportunities. Developing a funded project profile in the areas of our themes
puts us in a good position to apply for funds for developing these research areas further. This in
turn builds our own profile, thereby attracting research students. In a sense our research themes
not only reflect our research interests, but also provide an infrastructure to shape our research
specialisms and future research bid opportunities that support our alignment with our values such
as those reflected in University’s Sustainability Strategy. We expect, and plan for our research
income to continue to grow and with that to continue to consolidate and develop our research
environment and culture.

Our future ambitions include applications for further research funding from funders such as the
Education Endowment Fund, the Spencer Foundation, the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, the
British Educational Research Association and Horizon 2020. The School is working with the
University Funding Office (UFO) to develop the relevant support structure required. Planned bids
include funded research assistant posts to support the research projects. It is intended that this
will be in place for the next REF period and work on this has already started with the UFO and the
scoping of research bids in collaboration with colleagues in other institutions who have established
experience and success in this area.

This represents an exciting new development for our experienced researchers while the
opportunity to apply for research assistant positions means that our PGRs can develop their own
experiences and skills. This growing research environment has fostered the confidence to apply
for diverse funding opportunities and to engage in research activity at a range of levels. In this way
our activities over the current REF cycle have allowed us to identify our priorities and to map out
our ambitions for the next one.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration with the education community in Gloucestershire and beyond is the cornerstone of
the work of the School of Education & Humanities and is especially relevant to UoA 23. These
collaborations provide research opportunities through our school and education setting partners as
well as responding to calls to tender and our proactive bids.

Our collaborations with NGOs, charities and schools, as well as with other academic institutions,
means that our research impact is not confined to intellectual contributions but also benefits
specific groups and society at large. This is reflected in the consortiums that we form for our
research bids that ensure that research outcomes/outputs feed into the work of practitioners and


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
real-world contexts. Below we outline some of these partnerships and collaborations and how they
contribute to the world of academia and practice.

LeARN Network
Initiated and run by Vare, the LeARN network promotes and supports action research in schools.
LeARN has led eight research projects during the REF period to date (Cheltenham Learning
Partnership x2; schools in Ecuador; White Horse Federation; Swalcliffe Park School, Forest of
Dean Primaries; The King’s School, Worcester; Woodmancote Primary). This work facilitates
research by practitioners and feeds directly into their day-to-day practice.

Membership of Learned Societies
Staff are members of a range of learned societies (Rigg, member of Geographical Association;
Forster, Shalofsky and Penney, members of the Association of Science Educators; Howell,
member of GloMaths; Bryan member of IPDA, BERA; Vare member of EERA Network 30 and
BERA. Such membership reflects the active nature of our staff and also their recognition in their
respective fields.

Staff playing significant roles in learned societies have acted as a model for more ECRs to
consider getting involved so that even when senior research staff (Bryan) depart the University, the
legacy of developing these roles has continued (Middleton). Involvement has included both
national and international organisations. For example, Middleton is Chair of Directors of Leading
Learning for SEND Community Interest Company and Middleton is member of the Research and
Evaluation Committee of NurtureUK. Staff are encouraged to join societies that are relevant to
their research interests and take an active role, for example, Vare is a member of the IUCN (The
World Conservation Union) Commission on Education and Communication, the National
Association for Environmental Education and has served on various expert Groups of the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) in relation to Education for Sustainable
Development as has Ryan who was invited as a member of QAA ESD expert groups 2014 and
2020. This is evidence of a research environment which is intent on being active with relevant
networks and societies and contributing to the wider world.

The RDP plays a role in this by offering funding for membership of and involvement with the
societies including networking events. This is in recognition of the need to meet with members of
societies which can and have led to collaborative works and research.

Such collaborations have led to outputs in the form of invited chapters, books and papers,
examples of which include:

Tandoi, E. (2017) 'It's not just writing': Constricting and negotiating 'childless' in children's literature
through performance in Beauvais, C. (Ed.) (2017) Children's Literature in Education

ahmed Shafi, A. (2018). Re-engaging young offenders with education in the secure custodial
setting. In Children and Their Education in Secure Accommodation (pp. 277-298). Routledge.

ahmed Shafi (2020) is lead Editor on a Special Issue for the International Journal of Educational
Development (IJED) entitled Towards a Global Understanding of the Education of Incarcerated
Children. The Special Issue has contributors from the Global South (Nigeria, South Africa), the
UAE, North America and Europe.



                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Middleton (2019) Teaching Assistants identifying key factors to their successful work with
challenging children and finding a new discourse. In: Discourses We Live By: Personal and
professional perspectives on education. Open Book Publishers, Cambridge.

Middleton, T., & Kay, L. (under review) Inclusion and School Exclusion. In Leading on Inclusion.,
Routledge

Martin S, Dillon J, Higgins P, Strachan G & Vare P (2014) Reflections on ESD in UK in Jucker R &
Mather R (Eds.) Schools in Schooling for Sustainable Development in Europe. Dordrecht: Springer

Gough S, Mor M, Sowter A & Vare P (2016) Ongoing and future directions of research on higher
education for sustainable development in Barth M, Michelsen G, Rieckmann M & Thomas I (Eds.)
Routledge Handbook of Higher Education for Sustainable Development. London: Routledge

Scott W A H & Vare P (2018) The World We’ll Leave Behind: Grasping the sustainability challenge,
Abingdon: Routledge

Zachariou, A., Kadji, C., Vare, P. & Millican, R. (2019) Professional Development and Sustainability
in W. Leal Filho (ed.), Encyclopaedia of Sustainability in Higher Education. Dordrecht: Springer.

Lee, E., Vare, P. & Finlayson, A. (2020) The Ebb and Flow of Environmental and Sustainability
Education in UK Schools in Gough A (Ed) The Green Schools Movement. Dordrecht: Springer

ahmed Shafi, A., Middleton, T., Millican, R. & Templeton, S. (2020) Reconsidering Resilience in
Education: An Exploration using the Dynamic Interactive Model of Resilience. Cham: Springer

Scott W A H & Vare P (2020) Learning, Environment and Sustainable Development: a history of
ideas, Abingdon: Routledge.

Editorial Board membership
Colleagues take an active role in the review of academic papers and editorial responsibilities that
such roles bring. For example, Masardo is Associate Editor of the Journal of Family Studies; Shafi
is Guest Editor for International Journal of Educational Development and for a Special Issue;
Middleton is part of the Editorial Advisory Board for International Journal of Nurture in Education;
Bryan is an Editor and founder of PRACTICE: contemporary issues in education research (new
Routledge journal).

Middleton is Editor of the International Journal of Nurture in Education

Education staff taking up editorial board membership demonstrates confidence and expertise in the
relevant research areas and again, these map on to our research themes.

Journal Reviewer roles
A number of staff, at both experienced and ECR stages, are involved in reviewing for established
international and national journals, thereby demonstrating staff willingness and support from the
School on enabling them to do so. Combined, our staff review for 13 national and international
journals and have produced and guest edited 3 Special Issues.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Vare reviews for:
   • Environmental Education Research
   • International Journal of Sustainability in Higher Education
   • Journal of Cleaner Production
   • Journal of Education for Sustainable Development
   • Sustainability

Gilbride reviews for:
    • Coaching: An international journal of theory research and practice

Shafi reviews for
   • International Journal of Educational Development
   • International Journal for Research and Method

Middleton reviews for
   • International Journal of Nurture in Education
   • Practice

Bryan reviews for:
   • Professional Development in Education
   • PRACTICE: contemporary issues in education research
   • British Educational Research Journal

These reflect how Education staff have grown in confidence and ambition manifested in proactive
academic and scholarly activity within their relative fields of expertise.

Doctoral Examinations
Our staff have begun to be invited for doctoral examinations. As our staff who hold doctorates are
gaining traction in their respective fields, we expect this to grow considerably in the next REF
cycle: Currently we have Bryan who has examined at the University of Wolverhampton (2017);
University of Sussex (2016) and; University of Staffordshire (2016).
Masardo has examined an MPhil/PhD upgrade: Australia National University (ANU) (2017).
Vare is examining a PhD at Kings’ College London (2020).

We are creating development opportunities by encouraging our staff with doctorates to Chair PhD
viva meetings or be part of mock vivas to prepare staff for when they are in a position to examine
PhDs.

Keynotes, invitations and recognitions
As staff establish themselves in their respective fields the requests for academic contributions and
keynotes has begun to emerge and is an area likely to grow as staff profiles are raised. Examples
of some of the keynotes our staff have delivered are below:
        Bryan: German Education Research Association (DGfE) March 2018
        Shafi: University of Applied Sciences, Dresden 23rd January 2020
        Vare: Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, Lima, September 2018
        Vare: German-speaking University ESD Network, Vechta, March 2019
        Vare: Ministry of Education, Conference on TVET and Sustainability, Tbilisi, April 2019
        Vare: Carpathian Convention, Budapest, April 2019
        Vare: AGM of the National Association for Environmental Education, November 2020

Editor of Special Edition Journals



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our staff have initiated special editions for respected journals in their own areas of expertise,
demonstrating and drawing on their networks in order to do so. This includes Bryan (2019) with
JET (Research Ethics in School-based Research); Shafi (2020) International Journal of
Educational Development.

Recognitions
Vare currently serves on the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Steering
Committee on Education for Sustainable Development as the Committee’s External Academic
Expert; he has also been invited by the European Commission to join their Expert Workshop on a
European Competence Framework on Education for Sustainability. His research project A Rounder
sense of Purpose recently won the prestigious Green Gown Award.

Ryan has been awarded a competition-based National Teaching Fellowship 2017 and is a Green
Gown award Winner in 2010, Highly Commended in 2013, and Finalist in 2012, 2017 and 2020.
That both our ICSs were finalists and then one a winner indicates the strength of our contribution to
this field.

Shafi has been recognised for her contributions to research and services to social justice with an
MBE in the Queens 2020 New Year’s Honours List.

In summary, this section illustrates how from small beginnings at the start of this REF period, the
research environment has flourished in a range of ways; our staff are now striving to ensure that
they are active contributors to the research base in their respective fields as well as to the
economy and society. We expect this to develop further as we enter the next REF period where
these contributions will turn in to direct and tangible impacts. This has been built into our plans
and priorities. As we enter the next REF period we do so with excitement, ambition and
confidence which we expect to be reflected in a yet more vibrant research environment aiming for
real-world and sustainable impact.




                                                                                            Page 13
