Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: University of Plymouth
 Unit of Assessment: 3

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 The University of Plymouth’s UoA3 submission is built on the diversity and plurality of its Faculty of
 Health (FoH). We were the first post-1992 university to run a medical school by itself and the
 first to establish a dental school. Our range of health and social care research and education is
 amongst the broadest in the UK (4,500 professionals in research and training across 60
 programmes). UoA3 is our largest health return and forms the core of our interdisciplinary applied
 health research; it includes research from our Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Health Professions
 and Nursing & Midwifery. We are a modern university with a proud tradition of teaching and of civic
 commitment to our region. We are also an ambitious institution in health delivery and research. The
 strategy that we have developed over this REF period has been backed by major investment since
 2014 to build excellence in research in UoA3, evidenced by a >£50M infrastructure spend (£24M
 dedicated to Health Professions and Nursing); a 310% rise in award income; a >360% rise in PGR
 completions; our diverse outputs covering the breadth of the health landscape; and by our four
 impact case studies that reach from health policy to health measurement, ophthalmology to orthotics.

 The unit comprises 52 category A staff (48.01 FTE; a 38% rise since 2014). Since 2020, research
 in UoA3 is supported through the Plymouth Institute of Health and Care Research (PIHR). PIHR
 is a strategic institutional investment to coordinate health research across the university, and to
 improve health in areas that are priorities for our local, relatively deprived, urban-rural and maritime
 populations and for similar communities worldwide. PIHR will add value by enabling and accelerating
 research, supporting new and productive collaborations across disciples, and multiplying the volume,
 quality, and impact of our work. It enables an interlocking matrix where the applied health research
 that forms our UoA3 submission aligns seamlessly with our clinical and translational research (UoA1)
 and our psychology research (UoA4), as well as with health-related research in other Faculties and
 National and International partners.

 Barrier-free collaborative working has crystalized the research activity of UoA3 around four
 principal themes:

 (1) Developing and evaluating health and social care interventions
 (2) E-Health and technology
 (3) Measurement of health
 (4) Dental research

 The four UoA3 themes (detailed below) provide critical mass and a focused research direction in a
 supportive environment. They allow us to address the key issues impacting the health environment
 of the South West and which hold relevance for UK and International health and social care provision.
 Our unique position as a peninsula, with a stable and ageing rural population, has provided the basis
 for leading national programmes with partners that have complementary profiles, and for securing
 strong relations with regional health and social care collaborators. Examples include the impact of
 rurality on health and social care access, and the measurement and management of symptoms
 pertinent to an ageing population such as those associated with dementia, diabetes and cataracts,
 and randomised trials requiring diverse populations.

 Key achievements this REF period:
     ● Four-fold increase in award income from £3.2M to >£18.5M.
     ● 38% expansion in researchers from 34.9 to 48.01 FTE, with a greater proportion of senior
     researchers.


                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     ● >Four-fold increase in PGR awards (from 14 to 62).
     ● National and International collaboration with world-leading research programmes (PenARC,
     EPIC, TARS, e-coachER, STRENGTHEN, D-PACT, PARTNERS2, ENGAGER).
     ● New research programmes in low-middle income countries such as Nepal (Marsden),
     Philippines (Nasser), Malaysia (Nasser) and Uganda (Rupert Jones). These build local
     research capacity, e.g., our work in the Philippines has trained 25 junior research fellows as part
     of a research residency and funded 5 ongoing research projects.

 Current position and developments since 2014
 Our 2014 UoA3 submission followed a period of change at the University of Plymouth, including the
 separation of Plymouth’s Medical and Dental Schools from a joint venture with Exeter University.
 Recent consolidation into one Faculty and the evolution of a single strategic health-related research
 institute has led to re-alignment of our UoA3 submission around four themes in applied health
 research; as a result, some basic and translational research which was included in UoA3 in 2014 is
 now integrated into a sister unit (UoA1; Fern, Fejer, Affourtit, Upton) and all dental research is
 consolidated in UoA3. This aligns our submission with the new PIHR structure. In 2020 PIHR
 incorporated the work of the Institute of Translational and Stratified Medicine (ITSMed) and the
 Institute of Health and Community (IHC) which were featured in the 2014 submission.

 Research themes
 These provide a coherent structure for the development of inter-disciplinary research and the growth
 of its members from doctoral level to independent principal investigators. Each theme hosts regular
 seminars which provide forums to critically discuss and debate current, past and potential projects.
 External speaker programmes of leading researchers highlight best research practice, inspire staff,
 and help develop fruitful collaborations. Research discussion forums and networking opportunities,
 hosted by PIHR, foster the generation of research ideas, interdisciplinary collaborative working and
 the submission of grant applications.

 Theme 1. Developing and Evaluating Health and Social Care Interventions
 This UoA3 theme focuses on interventions designed to tackle societal and global health challenges-
 particularly health inequality - in the areas of primary care, mental health and wellbeing, lifestyle risk
 & health, and integrated care. Intervention development is informed by routes that include: public
 and patient input (PPI) in the prioritisation of research questions; understanding the lived experience
 of health and disease through qualitative work; clinical stakeholder engagement; systematic and
 scoping reviews of literature; translation of lab-based research into the underpinning causes of
 disability; and evidence-based behaviour change techniques. The feasibility, piloting and definitive
 evaluation of these interventions is supported by a UKCRC-registered clinical trials unit (PenCTU),
 NIHR Research Design Service (SW RDS); NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (PenARC),
 Faculty Medical Statistics team, NIHR Clinical Research Network (CRN), and an Academic Health
 Science Network (SW AHSN).

 Within the theme there is expertise and support through a variety of PPI and researcher-led activities,
 including how to develop acceptable and feasible interventions, which are evidence and theory-
 based. The aim is to support change in behaviour, thoughts and emotions, leading to improved
 wellbeing. There is also sharing of research methods, for example, to optimise recruitment, data
 capture & monitoring and data analysis. Three particular areas of expertise have been developed:
 rehabilitation, health promotion, and interprofessional person-centred care.

 In the field of maternal health, Shawe and Maslin direct a programme optimising pregnancy in
 obesity and bariatric surgery (PREPARE). Working with an International team, guidelines have been
 developed and nationally two pilot cohort studies are underway (BDA funded). Freeman, Shawe,
 and Hosking are undertaking a trial to improve pelvic pain after childbirth (RfPB funded).
 Rehabilitation intervention development (Freeman, Marsden) has involved people with progressive
 neurological conditions, with a particular focus on the area of impaired mobility and balance (e.g.,
 BRIMS, SUMS, COGEX, VERMIS). Health promotion work (Tailor, Thompson, Callaghan, Axford)


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 includes interventions to improve the health and well-being of offenders (STRENGTHEN) and the
 prevention and management of addictive substances (e.g., TARS), testing theory-driven
 interventions delivered by Health Coaches, and interventions for children, young people and parents.
 Work on complex care for those with complex needs (Byng), funded through three NIHR
 programmes, has resulted in development of a practical method for delivering coordinated and
 person-centred care for offenders (ENGAGER), individuals with psychosis (PARTNERS2) and
 people with dementia and their carers (D-PACT). We also investigate inequalities and inequities in
 dementia care (Banerjee), including the ESRC/NIHR-funded DETERMIND programme which
 explores variations in outcomes by gender and ethnicity; a large multicentre NIHR HTA-funded RCT
 of mirtazapine versus placebo for agitation in dementia (SYMBAD); and a novel programme
 evaluating the provision of a patient-led intervention to increase empathy for and attitudes towards
 dementia in healthcare students (HEE-funded, Time for Dementia).

 The structure and support arranged through the theme delivers the research strategy in part through
 developing talent. For example, Paton completed her PhD in the faculty prior to working as an NIHR
 clinical fellow and now as a Clinical trials fellow. She has benefited from our leadership training and
 mentoring program and has developed an independent research group focused on measuring foot
 stress/strain to produce (and test) tailored insoles.

 Theme 2. E-health and Technology
 This UoA3 theme includes research into patients' use of digital devices (e.g., robotics) and online
 collaborative learning between patients and professionals. Our UoA3 Centre for Health
 Technology (CHT) is focussed on digitally-enabled innovations, working with a network of cross-
 sector partners, including NHS, industry, health and social care organisations and patient groups, to
 deliver research and development of international importance. The CHT has seven areas of research
 focus: robotics and AI, virtual and immersive reality, e-health and telehealth, evaluation and health
 policy related to digital, technology implementation and behaviour change, cybersecurity, and
 assistive music technology. CHT is agile, meeting mostly online in response to new projects or
 funding opportunities but with the focus on inter-sectoral collaboration with industry, patient and
 community groups, and students, enabled by the unique population and geographical characteristics
 of the South West region of England.

 There are three programmes of work:
   • Development of e-health ecosystems supporting regional development linked to health and
   wellbeing, typified by the e-Health Productivity and Innovation in Cornwall and Isles of Scilly,
   EPIC1 (2017-2020, Ray Jones) and EPIC2 (2020-2023, Ray Jones) projects. ERDF outputs
   from EPIC1 included supporting 66 businesses, creating 11 new jobs, establishing 27
   research collaborations, helping 5 new start-ups, bringing 5 new products to market, and
   11 new products to firms. A key strand is dementia, improving use of technology in care homes
   through robotics (working on robopet design), and smart speakers ‘normalising’ voice
   technologies. Another strand has been embedding e-Health in the nursing curriculum with
   Plymouth cited as an example of best practice for social media use and students being ‘agents
   of change’ by HEE.
   • Research council funded work includes the Radio-Me EPSRC funded project (Banerjee) for
   assistive technology for people with dementia and the seeding of new projects through
   collaboration with the School of Engineering, Computing and Maths in a Doctoral Training
   Programme.
   • NHS funded work includes e-coacher (Taylor) and recent COVID related grants such as two
   video-consultation-related projects (Byng, Freeman).

 Other examples of the development and evaluation of digital technology in UoA3 include apps to
 help people lose weight; websites for cognitive behavioural therapy; sensors and devices to track
 fitness and movement in Parkinson’s patients; and remote working by general practitioners (Byng,
 COVID ESRC, led by Oxford). Shawe has collaborated on a digital tool for contraceptive choice



                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (NIHR Contraceptive Choices), and with Industry on using a fertility awareness app to conceive.
 Several of these projects have won national awards (e.g., HSJ and BMJ), including Newman whose
 work was recognised for the innovative aspect of the ACEmboile app in supporting doctors and
 nurses throughout the screening assessment known as the Addenbrookes cognitive examination
 (ACE III), and the development and use of EPSMON for monitoring patients with epilepsy to predict
 seizures.

 Theme 3. Measurement of Health
 This UoA3 theme fosters strong links with industry partners that wish to evaluate pharmacological
 and health technology products. Research activity from this group has translatable impact as
 evidenced by the submission of two UoA3 impact case studies (Hobart, P. Buckhurst). Hobart’s
 research programme focuses on the development of Patient Reported Outcome measures (PROs)
 for clinical research, trials and drug licensing. The scales he has developed for assessing Multiple
 Sclerosis (MS) are among a limited number contained in the United States Food and Drugs
 Administration (FDA) compendium of Clinical Outcomes Assessments. Since 2014 Hobart has
 developed new scales in MS and Stroke and worked as part of the LORA group to support scale
 development in dermatology (hyperhidrosis), urology (nocturia) and haematology (sickle cell
 symptom severity). The University’s commercial research company, UPEL, has received £1.27M
 income in the current REF period from the licensing of Hobart PROs targeted for patients with MS,
 Cervical Dystonia and Parkinson’s disease.

 P. Buckhurst’s work on intraocular lens assessment and ophthalmic instrumentation has produced
 new image analysis methods for assessing the stability of intraocular lenses implanted during
 cataract surgery, which have been used in clinical trials leading to FDA approval. Since 2014, UPEL
 has received £500k of contract research income involving the use of these outcome measures
 for commercially sponsored international clinical trials.

 The Empowerment of Parents in the Intensive Care (EMPATHIC) outcome measures led by Latour
 has international recognition; the EMPATHIC instruments in neonatal intensive care have been listed
 as the gold standard in the European Standards of Care in Newborn Health presented to the
 European Commission (2018). The EMPATHIC instruments have been translated and validated in
 several languages (Chinese, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek, Turkish, Arabic) and are used in
 over 40 countries where in some cases they are the national standard quality indicator in paediatric
 critical care medicine.

 UoA3 has extensive experience developing questionnaires to meet the guidelines provided by the
 FDA to allow widespread use of instruments, the most recent of which is the Severe Asthma
 Questionnaire (SAQ) developed by Rupert Jones and colleagues. The SAQ team have brought in
 5 grants totalling £487,000; the latest from the European Respiratory Society severe asthma network
 is a 10-country study of the SAQ as a measure of quality of life in leading severe asthma services
 across Europe. The SAQ is also included in the International Severe Asthma Registry which has
 over 22 countries and the registry creates a data platform that is used in a range of commercially
 sponsored studies.

 Theme 4. Dental Research
 This theme ranges from basic dental research with a focus on applied dentistry, to the
 implementation of public health approaches. Our regenerative dentistry team has a translational
 research focus on tooth stem cells and regeneration (Hu), novel dental implant surface coating
 development to retard bacteria (Tredwin), and tissue engineering and biocompatibility testing
 (Salih). Hu’s work showing novel molecular tuning mechanism for stem cell fate control has been
 globally reported by more than 100 media outlets including the Telegraph, with images selected
 for the Day by the Medical Research Council; his EMBO J (2019) paper was elected by the GE
 Reports as one of the 5 Coolest Things on Earth This Week. The team has active collaborations
 with more than 30 international institutes and has signed 6 research MoU.



                                                                                       Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our evidence-based dentistry and oral health research programmes (Nasser) are focused on
 identifying issues that are relevant to primary care dentists, e.g., how anxiety can affect decision
 making in dentistry and patient centred oral health care measurement frameworks. Three academic
 clinical fellows (ACFs) in the programme have gained PhDs (Alexander, Mills, Allen) and two ResMs
 (Plessas and Delgado). Peninsula Dental Social Enterprise (PDSE), a community Interest Company
 (CIC) wholly owned by the university, has invested £321k from donations to support UoA3 dental
 research this REF period, including to develop an evaluation framework for measuring the impact of
 an oral health service programme involving community engagement on oral health inequality and to
 support post-doctoral fellows and PGRs in basic discovery research.

 Research strategy
 Our four UoA3 themes provide structure and definition to our research portfolio. We foster a vibrant
 ecosystem of health research across the faculty, with strong mechanisms to maintain a team ethos
 to encourage cross-fertilization and sharing of best practice across the intramural landscape. Our
 strategy has seven specific objectives:

 1) Building effective collaborations. We strengthen our community of research by encouraging
 shared behaviours and maintaining responsive structures within PIHR to drive inter-disciplinary and
 cooperative working. For example, the basic dental research reported in UoA3 interlocks with the
 basic research expertise and facilities reported in our UoA1 and both benefit from a shared resource
 policy.

 2) Expanding the size and volume of awards. Increasing our research income boosts research
 volume and is delivered through enhanced collaborative working and professionalization of our
 research application processes. We have increased professional training and the award application
 cycle is actively managed with greater levels of scrutiny to improve quality. This process started in
 2018 and has contributed to a more than doubling of grant capture (~£11M in 2019-2020
 compared to a prior 4-year average of £4.1 M) across the FoH.

 3) Providing a suite of resources to facilitate research integration and excellence. The
 university has invested in infrastructure to support UoA3. The offering to researchers in the unit
 includes our £24M Intercity Place investment (opening in 2022 and housing Nursing & Midwifery
 and Allied Health Professions in dedicated research space), the Derriford Research Facility (£16.9M
 investment, opened 2018 and home to UoA3s’ Bossing, Dun, Hu, Salih, and Tredwin) and the
 Brain Research Imaging Centre (£9M opening in 2021 and home to UoA3s’ Marsden).

 4) An open-frame network of expertise in project development. This includes a fully-registered
 Clinical Trials Unit (PenCTU); NIHR South West Research Design Service (SW-RDS); NIHR
 PenARC; development of a Joint Clinical Research Office with our main NHS partner; and access
 to NHS Clinical Research Facilities such as the Lind ward (8-bed overnight research unit at
 University Hospitals Plymouth). We continually strengthen our relationships with local health and
 social care providers across the region, e.g., the UoA3 South West Clinical Schools programme has
 increased research capacity particularly in Nursing and Health Professions and has attracted NIHR
 doctoral fellowships and the awarding of the NIHR funded MClinRes programme.

 5) Full-service research support. This includes grant writing workshops, funded external review of
 applications, RDS, CTU and PenARC (previously PenCLAHRC) methodological expertise, in-school
 support through an Associate Head of School-Research and access to a university-wide support
 structure. We help staff with heavier teaching loads to develop research capacity by forging links
 with active research colleagues and seek to adjust work-load allocation to make room for research.

 6) Exploiting our intellectual property. UoA3 has an excellent record of enterprise activity and we
 have developed a FoH KE-Enterprise Committee tasked with commercializing our research with a
 £110K annual budget (2020).



                                                                                        Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 7) Supporting the development of our ECRs and junior faculty. We have built on our staff
 mentoring programme, developmental support mechanisms and training opportunities to expand the
 pipeline of excellent junior faculty coming through into more senior roles and developing larger
 research programs. This is of particular significance in newer fields of health research, such as allied
 health.

 Impact Strategy:
 The 7 objectives of our Research strategy are translated into impact through the deployment of HEIF
 funding through a Faculty KE-commercialization Committee with regular open calls for development
 projects (up to £15K each) such as proof of concept work, project development costs or marketing
 surveys. In a process managed by the Associate Dean Research (ADR), projects can subsequently
 be developed by a university Priority Bid Program offering enhanced support and project
 management. This mechanism underpinned successfully projects such as EPIC and the South-West
 Health Innovation Partnership. Clinical impact is achieved through the unit’s CTU, SW-RDS,
 Statistics group and Research Support office (described below). A wide variety of public-engagement
 activity (described in section 4) is important for delivery of societal and economic impact of our
 research; support for these activities has evolved from the structures of the Institute of Translational
 and Stratified Medicine and the Institute of Health and Community into those of the newly launched
 PIHR.

 Future Research and Impact Plan:
 Future research expansion will be achieved following the 7 objectives of our Research Strategy
 (above). We will continue to support and grow our 4 themes of research excellence in UoA3. Growth
 will be achieved through strategic recruitment into these established areas while remaining nimble
 and responsive as opportunities arise. We will continue to assist staff who have an emphasis on
 teaching to develop their research interests (see Section 2), which aligns with the University’s 2030
 strategic aim to increase the proportion of research-active staff. Opening of our new research
 facilities (BRIC, DRF, Intercity Place; see section 3) will provide a permissive environment for
 increased collaboration between UoA3 faculty, and expansion of research volume as grant capture
 accelerates (see section 1: Research Strategy and section 2: Staff development and support). These
 changes will also promote impact growth which will be coordinated through the new PIHR where our
 UoA3 submission forms the majority of the ‘PIHR: Health Across the Life course’ and ‘PIHR: Digital-
 Health’ themes, along with the dental elements of the ‘PIHR: Frontiers in Discovery Science’ theme.

 Interdisciplinary working:
 Our success in this area is evidenced by the interdisciplinary range of our UoA3 outputs, which cover
 a wide research terrain (11 main subject areas; SciVal) and in our close and productive links into
 industry (see section 4). Our research facilities such as BRIC, DRF and Intercity Place are organized
 on the principle of barrier-free shared resource allocation, with flexible group sizes and open-frame
 space allocation, an arrangement that is conducive to collaborations (section 3). PIHR is a strategic
 investment that spans all three university faculties and forges links that cross school, faculty, and
 university boundaries and with the NHS and social care; for example, the conjoined working of
 Banerjee with the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business (e.g., Radio-Me), and Ray Jones with
 the Faculty of Science and Engineering (EPIC) (see section 3).

 Research and Impact strategy delivery
 Research across the FoH is coordinated by the ADR, and research in each school is overseen by
 an Associate Head of School-Research (AHoSR). This group meets monthly and representatives of
 all research stakeholders attend a termly Research Committee which drives forward the research
 strategy and also receives reports from oversight structures (Governance, Doctoral, Ethics, Animal
 Welfare, KE-commercialisation). The ADR represents research at the bi-monthly Faculty Executive
 Group and on university bodies (Senior Leadership Forum, Senate, Doctoral College, R&I
 committee), and is responsible for monitoring and maximising award capture, managing the staff of
 the faculty research support office and for developing faculty research strategies. This arrangement
 has clear lines of responsibility to enable an open and collaborative culture and supplies the


                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 resources (see under) required for the kind of coordinated approach to impact that is highlighted in
 our four case studies (Hobart, Nasser, P. Buckhurst, Freeman). Our research strategy is
 integrated across the faculty and within the university and the new PIHR is central to this, bringing
 together groups with shared interests and skills to foster collaboration within the faculty and
 facilitating research links with regional and national partners. This coordinated delivery of strategy in
 UoA3 is underpinned through 8 key mechanisms:

 1) Study Support. This includes PenCTU (18 staff, 15.4FTE, led by Creanor/Allgar), PenARC
 (Byng, Axford), and the Southwest Research Design Service (SW-RDS: Clyne). The NIHR-funded
 SW-RDS is co-located with the PenCTU and is accessible to all staff and clinicians, with the focus
 on providing guidance for NIHR related projects. Of 56 award applications consulting SW-RDS in
 the current REF period, 32 were successful and total research funding secured in collaboration with
 teams throughout the peninsula, was £17.3M. The service runs an annual research retreat with
 immediate and ongoing access to dedicated specialists including health economists, statisticians
 and PPI experts; in addition to regular advice clinics. The effectiveness of this approach is
 demonstrated by successful NIHR grant applications, e.g., the ENGAGER program grant (Byng),
 £600k RfPB funding (Freeman) and awards ranging between £97K-250K to Endacott, Shawe,
 Hosking. Implementation scientists work alongside our local experts to ensure that research is
 implemented within health and social care settings, thereby optimising research impact. For
 example, a significant reduction in pressure injuries in the community in Cornwall following the
 implementation of continuous pressure mapping technology, which has since been rolled out to other
 regions of the South West funded by the Health Foundation’s Scaling Up Improvement programme;
 a collaboration with our regional AHSN to support their spread of innovation programme; and the
 South West Clinical School doctoral research, which has a strong implementation focus.

 2) Patient and Public Involvement (PPI). PPI underpins all stages of applied health/social care
 research in UoA3. The Peninsula Patient Involvement Group (PenPIG: embedded within PenARC)
 works alongside the PPI team to maximise the benefits and impact of our research. The PPI team
 also supports researchers in designing and developing their grant-specific PPI strategy. Further, the
 SW-RDS has a nominated PPI facilitator and provides funds for engagement activities to develop
 research proposals. This PPI engagement runs alongside numerous patient and carer-based groups
 who work in collaboration with our research leaders (e.g., ICUsteps national PPI group (Endacott);
 Maternity Voices Partnership RfPB award (Shawe)). Our Interest in addressing health inequalities
 provides extra incentive to understand how to engage with under-represented groups and
 communities. This is demonstrated in the ENGAGER and STRENGTHEN trials involving offenders
 (Byng, Taylor); our engagement with people with severe and complex disability who are often
 excluded from many research trials and clinical interventions, such as the work undertaken by
 Freeman (SUMS and BRIMS, CogEx); and the work with improving technological access in care
 homes (Ray Jones).

 3) Methodological support. UoA3 includes experts with extensive methodological expertise. For
 example, Taylor and Byng are leaders in process evaluation and assessing intervention fidelity,
 especially involving multiple health behaviour changes within large NIHR funded trials (e-coachER,
 TARS, STRENGTHEN, ENGAGER, PARTNERS); Kent sits on the JBI Advisory Committee;
 Freeman sits on UK NICE Guidelines Committee for MS, Nasser sits on the Scientific Committee
 and Methods Board of Cochrane (see section 4 for more). Access to this expertise is facilitated by a
 research methodology directory and regular methodological seminars such as the recently organised
 ‘Measurement Properties’ event. The Joanna Briggs Institute Centre of Excellence (JBI: Kent,
 Shawe) -accredited systematic review trainers and the Cochrane Priority Setting Methods Group
 (Nasser) complement this shared knowledge approach, reflecting the methodological strength of the
 unit and providing opportunities for local, national and international networking. Our JBI Centre of
 Excellence provides bi-annual, week-long systematic review training and accreditation events. The
 JBI Comprehensive Systematic Review Training Programme is a five-day programme which
 prepares researchers and clinicians to develop, conduct and report robust, high quality systematic
 reviews of different evidence types to provide the strongest possible evidence to inform decision


                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 making or clinical guideline development in healthcare. Since 2015, we have trained over 100
 health professionals in JBI systematic review research methodology.

 Our PenARC staff contribute to information science and review methodology. PenARC provides a
 full range of methodological and support services to enhance local research capacity and capability.
 Examples include monthly clinics freely accessible to all postgraduate researchers, clinicians and
 university staff in the areas of evidence synthesis for the production of systematic and scoping
 reviews; PPI, and qualitative methodology. PenCHORD (Peninsula Collaboration for Health
 Operational Research and Development: part of PenARC) assists researchers in utilising advanced
 quantitative techniques to model healthcare services and predict the impact of change
 Implementation Scientists work alongside our local experts to ensure that interventions that are
 shown to be effective are implemented within health and social care settings, thereby optimising
 research impact. Further specific qualitative research methods support has been initiated by
 contracting two professors with extensive expertise in qualitative research (Latour, Neil). The
 collaboration among schools (e.g., School of Nursing & Midwifery and School of Health Professions)
 in this field has led to successful grant applications using mixed-methods study designs such as
 NIHR CADF applications resulting in 3 PhD studentships. Additional success is the inclusion of
 qualitative research methods in the HEE £1M award to develop the MClinRes in 2015 (Marsden,
 Kent, Latour).

 4) Statistical Support. The Medical Statistics group (Allgar, Creanor, Streeter, Hosking) provides
 comprehensive support throughout the whole process of design, development and delivery of clinical
 trials and other complex clinical studies in collaboration with the SW-RDS and co-located PenCTU,
 with whom the group works seamlessly. In addition to being responsible for the programming and
 analysis of a number of large funded studies, the Medical Statistics group carries out both
 methodological and applied research in areas of interest that include risk assessment and screening
 as well as the design and analyses of clinical trials. Statistical clinics provide support monthly,
 particularly targeting ECRs and post-graduates/PGRs.

 5) Administrative and Financial Support. The FoH Development and Partnership Manager (1FTE)
 horizon-scan grant opportunities and provides support and feedback on grant applications, in
 conjunction with the ADR, the four AHoSR and University R&I. This group also work collaboratively
 with Government Knowledge Transfer Advisors, staff within the Knowledge Transfer Partnership
 Office (KTP) provide extensive guidance and access to industry partners for the development of KTP
 applications. Ongoing support is provided for researchers and KTP Associates. This includes regular
 project management group meetings and advice on development plans and training pertinent to the
 industry partner with the explicit aim of enhancing research impact. Following a successful
 application, a dedicated member of the Financial Management Team supports the financial
 management of awards, providing regular reports.

 6) Ethics and Governance. A dedicated University Sponsor representative and GDPR Officer
 (1FTE) works with FoH research governance specialists to provide training, advice and clear
 direction required to effectively implement health and social care research, overseeing applications
 to NHS Research Ethics Committees to IRAS and the Health Research Authority. non NHS post-
 graduate research approvals are via the FoH Research Ethics and Integrity Committee (FREIC)
 (UoA3 chaired by Neill, 0.4 FTE). Through audits of site files, data management plans, and Good
 Clinical Practice certification, these assure researchers adhere to the highest governance standards.
 This is strengthened by our strong links with Governance Officers within regional NHS Research,
 Design and Innovation Departments. PenCTU has a quality management system comprising a suite
 of Standard Operating Procedures, work instructions, tools and checklists to ensure regulatory,
 governance and quality standards are met in the conduct of clinical trials.

 7) Project Management. The PenCTU provides the full range of project management support for
 clinical trials including trial management, data management, randomisation, database management
 systems, data input, quality assurance and analysis. In line with good practice, all projects are


                                                                                        Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 managed through regular Trial Management Group meetings with patient representation. Trial
 Steering Committees and Independent Data Monitoring Committees are convened depending on
 size and scope of project. Researchers work closely with NIHR Clinical Research Network staff from
 the outset, for example in the calculation of NHS Support Costs and Excess Treatment Costs, raising
 study awareness, and facilitating recruitment.

 8) Mentorship and Peer Review Systems. There is a clear pathway for the review of all grants.
 This includes mentorship throughout the grant writing process, mandatory independent peer review
 and a standardised risk assessment of impact on staff workload, resources and finances.
 Applications are registered and tracked through the online Award Manager system, which alerts
 individual AHoSRs as soon as an interest is logged, allowing them to mentor and support the
 development process (section 2). There is a FoH Research Development Fund (e.g., £55K in 2020)
 used to provide external paid reviews of pre-submitted applications, in addition to the internal expert
 review system.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 UoA3 comprises 48.01 FTE academics including 15 full professors and 11 associate professors;
 over-all gender balance is 52% female: 48% male, with close parity between the sexes in
 outputs. 13.8% of UoA3 faculty identify as BME. The Schools of Medicine and Dentistry currently
 hold Athena Swan Silver awards, Health Professions and Nursing & Midwifery Bronze awards and
 are working towards Silver.

 We have built on the staffing strategy described in our UoA3 REF2014 submission. This included
 ‘To develop world-class research in dentistry, nursing, midwifery, biomedical science, and
 physiotherapy’. In this REF period 9 full professors have been recruited/promoted: 5 in theme 1:
 Developing and Evaluating Health and Social Care Interventions (Taylor, Neil, Shaw, Freeman,
 Banerjee); 2 in theme 2: E-Health and Technology (Taylor, Demain); 4 in Theme 3: Measurement
 of Health (Latour, P. Buckhurst, Shawe, Neil) and 1 in theme 4: Dental Research (Hu). Our 2014
 strategy also included ‘To support disciplines, such as optometry, that are new to the University but
 that offer future research potential’. Professorial staff have been recruited to lead both Optometry
 (Artes) and Dietetics (Hickson); in addition, two of the existing academics in Optometry have been
 promoted to Associate Professor (P Buckhurst, H Buckhurst) and one onto full Professor (P
 Buckhurst). Within nursing and midwifery, additional Professorial staff have been recruited to further
 enhance the link between clinical practice and health outcome measures (Latour, Shawe).

 This staffing strategy was implemented alongside an annual leadership training programme to
 ensure that our senior academics are empowered and appropriately skilled to support and develop
 their teams. The university has an established Future Leaders program and a cohort of prospective
 leaders within the unit have graduated (e.g., Freeman, Nasser, Pearce, etc). In addition, our local
 NHS Hospital Trusts Organisational Development Facilitator provides training for our staff on
 programmes developed for senior clinicians in UoA3.

 Staff PhD program
 A further strategy described in 2014 was to ‘develop…new academic disciplines such as
 paramedicine and occupational therapy’. The modern paramedic profession is only ~30 years old
 and ‘paramedic’ has only been a protected title since 2001. Occupational therapy has been a
 registerable degree for the past 40 years. In both professions it is difficult to recruit academics at
 post-doctoral level. Our strategy has been to upskill current staff. In this period, two paramedics
 (Henderson, Allum) and six occupational therapists (Cunningham, Whiting, Eyres, Krizaj, Raine,
 Twinley) have graduated on a part-time PhD programme that covered fees + £6k bench fees. In
 addition, all students in this program are eligible to attend two modules on our taught masters in
 clinical research. A transparent competitive process is used to assign staff to the PhD programme



                                                                                         Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 which is open to all professions and other development areas included in this program include
 Dietetics (Carrol), Physiotherapy (Hunter, Halliday, Lepesis, Gunn), Nursing/Midwifery (Carey,
 Hambridge, Henderson, North, Tobin) and Dentistry (Hanks, Nasser, Ali). The success of this
 approach is highlighted by the inclusion of graduates of this development pathway within the
 current REF submission (Gunn, Nasser).

 Staff development and support
 The University has implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 and was among the first 35 European HEIs to receive the EU HR Excellence for Researchers
 kitemark. An example of good practice is the University of Plymouth Research Leadership
 Programme. During this REF period, 5 staff from UoA3 attended the programme, which is delivered
 by the external providers Barefoot Training. It is a year-long programme consisting of an intensive
 three-day summer course, followed up by four half-day workshops, and a series of one-to-one phone
 meetings with the instructors across the year to help the staff set research objectives and find ways
 to plan for them and implement them. The School of Nursing and Midwifery have invested in building
 research capability and capacity through appointing a Full Professor (Neill 0.9 FTE) to lead on staff
 research development, introducing a system of research champions (n=5) within each disciplinary
 team and funding pre-doctoral and post-doctoral research internships.

 All new staff are enrolled in an induction process which plays an important part in settling staff into
 their roles and is supported by an overarching university Induction Policy & Procedure. As part of
 induction, staff are required to complete e-learning programmes including Unconscious Bias,
 Diversity in the Workplace, Health and Safety and GDPR and Information Security. The effectiveness
 of training is actively monitored through the staff survey feedback. The annual staff Performance
 Development Review (PDR) provides for monitoring of performance and discussion and recording
 of staff development. PDR is used to look back over training and development, to plan and support
 the next steps forward and to identify appropriate needs and linked opportunities for the future. To
 support and train the people undertaking the PDR process workshops are offered including a
 workshop on “having difficult conversations”, in addition to PDR calibration meetings to ensure a
 uniform standard is applied. We have a termly Faculty Newsletter that is circulated to all staff and
 further information disseminated by the Heads of School to ensure that everyone is aware of all
 potential training and development opportunities. The newsletter celebrates staff achievements at
 all levels, as well as achievements external to working life.

 All UoA3 members develop a personal research plan, have regular discussions with their Associate
 Head of School-Research, facilitating planning of sabbaticals and analysis of workload. Progress in
 research is monitored by their Associate Head of School-Research as well as through PDR. There
 is a peer review panel system for reviewing research papers where experienced and early career
 researchers review and debate the quality of research papers produced within the unit and in
 addition, our peer review and mentoring system supports the development of research grants.
 Changes in research responsibilities are managed through the PDR process with a flexible approach
 to FTE allocations, and successful researchers can for example reduce teaching/admin loads and
 vice versa (within a 20-80% band). Career progression requirements and progress are also
 discussed in this forum. FTE-bearing research roles that become available are publicly advertised
 with a call for expressions of interest to allow all faculty the opportunity for leadership experience.
 Leadership opportunities are offered in major university committees such as the R&I Committee,
 where there are designated places for early- and mid-career researchers. New academic starters
 are offered a negotiated start-up package that may include set-up costs, fellowships and PGRs,
 depending upon seniority. For each grant application a reviewer is assigned as early in the process
 as possible. The reviewer (from the senior research team) provides guidance and offers advice to
 improve the quality of the grant. We also run a faculty-wide research support program where UoA3
 staff can consult personally with external professionals (e.g., Parker-Derrington Ltd) to improve
 their grant writing and submission. This can involve several 1-2-1 sessions and reviews of grant
 drafts. Regular group sessions are delivered by external consultants and through the university



                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Funding Advisory service who bring in research council staff to provide tailored advice, while the
 South West Clinical School Professoriate also work closely with ECRs and other clinicians, providing
 grant support, writing workshops, and 1-1 support and advice.

 Open Research Environment
 The FoH values open access to outputs and data and has mechanisms to provide these that dovetail
 with those at University level (Open Access policy and Research Data policy). The ADR manages a
 £20K pa., budget that can support open-access publishing costs, and the Faculty research support
 office helps monitor and assist with output and data management lodging on open-access platforms
 such as PEARL.


 Early Career Researchers
 ECRs are assigned a research mentor from the senior research team who are responsible for
 helping identify and develop fundable ideas. The mentor also provides an important role in pastoral
 support, helping integrate new staff into the culture and processes of the unit. The requirements of
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers are embedded in University HR
 policies, under which our ECRs have representation at Faculty and School Research Committees.
 There is a transparent workload allocation system that enables the provision of a balanced and fair
 distribution of ECR research time. ECRs are supported for attendance at national and international
 meetings and conferences for presentations and networking through School staff development
 funds, this equates to approximately £1000 per member of staff. The University Doctoral College
 runs a range of developmental workshops for postdoctoral and ECR Researchers on all aspects of
 professional practice. In addition, PhD students and ECRs are encouraged to attend modules from
 our research masters programmes. ECR support groups encourage peer support, including an
 independent forum based in the faculty, one as part of the SW Clinical Schools in Cornwall, and
 one as part of the SW Clinical Schools in Torbay. We have extended our mentorship programme to
 help train junior researchers in other countries, for example, the Collaboratoire project training junior
 researchers in the Philippines and Asia.

 Equality and diversity
 The Faculty Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team meets every two months and reports to the
 Faculty Executive Group and monitors our equality staff survey where 93% of responders were
 aware of our equality and diversity principles and 85% of survey responders strongly agreed/agreed
 that the FoH is committed to supporting all staff and students with protected characteristics. These
 strong numbers underscore our firmly embedded equality ethos; as also evidenced by recent actions
 such as the ongoing decolonisation of our syllabus, and supportive messaging of developments
 like Black Lives Matter. To further widen the reach, we have extended our equality training to all
 Honorary Associate Lecturer contracts and we encourage all staff in the unit to undertake further
 equality and diversity training in Transgender Awareness, Mental Health Awareness, Prevent
 training, Intercultural Communication and Dementia Awareness. In 2020 we have introduced a
 Faculty-wide equality pledge programme as part of our PDR process where all staff are
 encouraged to generate a pledge for action they will take to improve equality, diversity and inclusion.
 Over 200 pledges have been registered to date. We have conducted an Equality Impact Assessment
 to identify patterns and areas for increased support to achieve equality and encourage diversity and
 have actively engaged with staff to create a programme of development and support including:
             •    University Network of Dignity and Respect Advisors (trained, confidential
             volunteers who offer a listening ear and guidance).
             •    Gender split on all recruitment panels; all panellists undergo appropriate inclusion
             training.
             •    Academic Women for Women sessions to foster collaboration and provide a safe
             environment for exploring aspects of promotion.
             •    Twenty people have received leadership training over the past three years with a
             gender split of 15F:5M. Training has ranged from the Aurora programme (for female



                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


           Associate Professors) to our University Research Leadership Programme (run by the
           Barefoot Training Company Ltd).
           •    Women’s Mentoring Scheme which aims to enable women to realise their potential
           here at the University of Plymouth and beyond. We also support a Women in STEM
           Network which celebrates the work and achievements of women.
           •    Springboard scheme for female ECR researchers which covers areas such as career
           development, building confidence, assertiveness, aspects of being a woman, identifying
           priorities.
           •    LBGT+ Staff Forum which provides network opportunities internally and externally.

 Staff welfare promotes staff retention and reduces erosion in under-represented groups. We have
 developed a progressive program of welfare activities that includes providing administration support
 for working groups (lunchtime walking, 3 free Pilates sessions a week), as well as ‘pop-up’
 mindfulness sessions and the provision of a permanent wellbeing room.

 Research students
 62 PGRs have successfully completed PhDs in this REF period, a >360% increase from the last
 REF (14). This was achieved through direct investment in University studentships and an increased
 number of senior researchers to expand the supervisor pool and increase PhD studentship awards
 such as NIHR Doctoral Research Fellowships (CDRF), in addition to increased part-time PGR
 enrolment. UoA3 PGRs are funded through a mix of program, university studentship and charitable
 sources. University-funded studentships are a significant form of institution support to the
 unit; within the FoH there were an average of 10 awards annually, representing ~£800K pa., in direct
 (bench fee, stipend) and deferred (fee) costs each year. We have also upskilled the staff in the unit,
 particularly in professions that are relatively new and where post-doctoral academics are rare. UoA3
 also attracted a growing number of self-funded PhD students from the UK, Malaysia and Dubai.

 Completion rates have remained high, achieved through a well-regulated safety net of support that
 includes a Director of Studies leading on supervision and by co-supervisors, who together act as a
 supervisory team. All teams strive for gender balance and have at least one senior academic with
 extensive supervisory experience including successful completions. Good supervisory practice
 training is mandated to all supervisors and new students benefit from induction sessions run locally,
 in addition to the mandatory induction by the University Doctoral College.

 Study progress is monitored online, with recorded supervisory meetings 3-months at the minimum.
 Students complete a Project Approval stage 3-5 months after starting (for full-time students),
 approved by their supervisory team and based upon a brief project description including a timeline,
 a data management plan and the completion of mandatory induction. 12-15 months into their studies
 students undergo a Confirmation of Route/ project transfer from MPhil to PhD status and submit a
 study report detailing progress and future work. At this stage, they also give an oral presentation to
 the Faculty and sit a ‘transfer viva’ chaired by at least one independent expert commentator
 (internal). This structured process serves to ensure that the student is supported, makes good
 progress and is well prepared for the final write-up and viva voce.

 Student welfare is of central importance and, in addition to the individual members of their
 supervisory team, students can consult a Postgraduate Research Coordinator based in each school
 as well as a suite of Well-Being services offered by the University, including one-to-one counselling
 and mental health appointments, personal and group support and development sessions. In addition,
 Disability Assistance Services help any PGR student with a disability with their study support
 requirements.

 In addition to providing pastoral support to students, school PGR Coordinators are responsible for
 monitoring and overseeing admission and supervisory team nomination, quality assurance, annual
 monitoring, etc. The PGR program within the faculty is overseen by a Faculty Doctoral Committee,



                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 which reports to the University Doctoral College Board, and is chaired by a faculty Deputy Director
 of the Doctoral College (UoA3 Kent, 0.8 FTE total). PGR students are directly represented on the
 committee, which in addition to regulatory processes monitors student welfare, training and
 satisfaction. An Annual Monitoring exercise completed by PGR students as well as Directors of
 Studies in all schools covers student experience and progress. We are proud to be a diverse learning
 community and any student in the faculty can become a member of the Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Committee, which ensures the faculty remains an inclusive and welcoming place to work
 and study.

 The student experience is enhanced by research, personal and transferable skills training
 opportunities offered by the University’s Doctoral College Researcher Development Program, which
 covers themes such as Knowledge and intellectual abilities, Personal effectiveness, Research
 governance, and Engagement, Influence and impact. A PGR Training and Career Development lead
 at the Faculty provides additional support. There is also a faculty PGR conference fund that helps
 students attend conferences, and the faculty holds an annual Research Event where students
 submit posters and give oral presentations. In addition, students benefit from a variety of seminar
 series, such as weekly research presentations in which both students and staff present, and monthly
 Research talks by external speakers in all schools. These communal events are held to foster a
 sense of community for our students who all have allocated office desk spaces and access to
 computers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities.

 Grant income
 UoA3 award income exceeded £18.5M in the current period, up 483% from the 2014 REF (£3.17M).
 Highlights include:

 The Dementia-Person Aligned Care Team (D-PACT) programme: a five-year NIHR programme
 (PGfAR, Byng, University of Plymouth = 1.7M) to develop and evaluate a system for dementia
 support based on general practice for people living with dementia.

 PRO-GROUP (ImProved): a 5-year NIHR Programme (UP lead: Pinkney, UP = £1M) to investigate
 the evidence base for Tier 3 interventions, and specifically to test the idea that a group-based
 behavioural intervention can be an effective model of care.

 E-Health Productivity and Innovation in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly (EPIC): a collaborative
 and interdisciplinary project, initially funded in 2017 with £2.7M from the European Regional
 Development Fund and the South West Academic Health Science Network, with a further £4M to
 extend the project until 2023. Led by UoA3s Centre for Health Technology (Ray Jones), EPIC is
 fuelled by input from a large number of partners, organisations and individuals across the South
 West, including healthcare trusts, charities, social enterprises, patient groups, and students.

 The Applied Research Collaboration South West Peninsula (PenARC): undertakes high-quality
 applied health research focused on the needs of patients and supports the translation of research
 evidence into practice in the NHS (Byng = £2.4M 2014 + £3.4M 2019). The ARC supports a range
 of research projects, e.g., in social prescribing (Husk, reported in UoA22), promotion of young
 people’s mental health (Axford), mental health transformation (Byng), and in police and health care
 (Callaghan). It has also contributed to the development of a range other work reported here (Ray
 Jones, Kent, Freeman) and PhD studentships.

 ENGAGER (Byng): a 6-year NIHR Programme grant (UP = £1.5M) to develop and evaluate a
 collaborative care intervention for offenders with common mental health problems delivered at the
 point of prison release.




                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Centre for Dementia Studies (CDS). UoA3 is home to a second node of the CDS that Banerjee
 established in Sussex, including his ESRC/NIHR Dementia Research Initiative funded DETERMIND
 programme (£5M), his £2.4M SYMBAD NIHR HTA RCT and his £3.7M HEE-funded Time for
 Dementia programme. Banerjee also collaborates with Miranda in the Faculty of Arts, Humanities
 and Business in a £540K Radio Me project that uses AI to customise radio choices for people with
 dementia.

 The NIHR Research Capacity in Dementia Care Programme (Kent): led In the South-West by
 PenCLARC, will increase the number of researchers active in dementia care research, including
 potential future leaders in dementia care research from nursing and allied health professional
 backgrounds. The funding (£198K) enabled four PhD studentships to be provided to nurses,
 midwives and allied health professionals.

 A multi-centred randomised controlled trial to investigate the effects of adding web-based
 coaching (e-coachER) is an NIHR HTA funded RCT of an exercise referral scheme as a way to
 increase uptake and sustained health enhancing physical activity for patients with chronic physical
 and mental health conditions (Taylor = £900k). It is a web-based coaching/exercise referral scheme
 for patients with chronic physical and mental health conditions.

 STRENGTHEN (pilot RCT) (Taylor, £500K): explored the feasibility of conducting a multi-centred
 RCT to improve well-being and healthy lifestyles with health trainer support among offenders under
 community supervision. The findings showed promising support for the client-centred theory driven
 bespoke intervention, preliminary evidence for a positive effect of the intervention on well-being, and
 support for conducting a larger trial.

 The Trial of physical Activity and Reduction of Smoking (TARS): examined the effectiveness of
 individualised health trainer support for smokers to reduce smoking and increase physical activity
 (Taylor = £1.9M). The trial recruited 915 participants across Plymouth, Nottingham, Oxford and
 London, and showed some signs of an Intervention effect on smoking behaviour and physical
 activity.

 A series of projects have investigated the patient benefit in movement disorders such as multiple
 sclerosis (2014-2020, Freeman = £1M) including the SUMS and BRIMS studies. The unit has also
 received approximately £1.25M of research income from UK charitable bodies including £172K from
 the MS Society looking at vestibular rehabilitation and £440K from the Cure Parkinson´s Trust. We
 also received smaller amounts of funding from charities and professional societies, including the
 College of Optometrists, the British Dietetic Association General and Education Trust, Fight for Sight,
 The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy and the Oral & Dental Research Trust. Awards related to
 rehabilitation research in the area of mobility and balance total £2.8M this REF period and include
 the ACCEPT study (Freeman), EMaPP study (Freeman) and the VeRMiS study (Marsden).

 There has been significant support to dental/oral research in the unit from Peninsular Dental Medical
 Social enterprise, including in 2020 the award of a block grant covering 4 PhD studentships and 2
 research fellowships largely to members of UoA3. In dental research, Tredwin and Hu have
 captured £1.4M, including ‘Role of the FoxN1 gene as a central regulator of epidermal planar cell
 polarity signalling expression and function’ (2014, 600K), a Marie Curie Career Integration Grant
 (2014:100K), Peninsula Dental Society Enterprise postdoctoral fellowships x2 (£260K), and Industry
 contract researches on biomaterials (£300K).

 The unit has captured significant enterprise income, including £1.84M for development of health
 measurement scales by Hobart (e.g., Acorda, Roche), and £338K to P. Buckhurst for research
 around optical devices (e.g., Bausch and Lomb); in addition to screening services such as DQASS
 run through Med Stats and funded by PHE (Creanor/Baker £1.45M this REF period).




                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Infrastructure
 Research work in UoA3 is conducted on 2 University campuses as well as numerous
 healthcare/NHS sites. The main campus currently hosts most of the research in Nursing as well as
 the clinical Optometry research at the new Optometry clinic within the University’s wellbeing centre.
 Research within the School of Health Professions, School of Dentistry and School of Medicine is
 located on the North Campus co-located with the 1000-bed University Hospitals Plymouth NHS
 Trust, PenCTU, PenARC and SW-RDS. UoA3 has benefited from >£50M in infrastructure
 investment during this REF period (£24M of dedicated investment) to deliver the strategic
 priorities identified following the last REF submission.

 In 2018, the £17.4M Derriford Research Facility (DRF) was opened on the north campus. This is a
 fully-equipped Biohazard II laboratory enabling us to conduct dental and translational health
 research. There is a strong collaborative interdisciplinary use of this facility with researchers from
 both UoA1 and UoA3 (Hu, Dun, Bossing, Tredwin) based here.

 In 2021 another interdisciplinary research facility will open on the north campus – the £9M Brain
 Research and Imaging Centre (BRIC). BRIC hosts seven research labs, with a 3tesla MR scanner
 forming the basis of the main laboratory. Each laboratory is led by researchers from either UoA1, 3
 or 4. The Gait lab within this facility is led by UoA3’s Marsden. The Director of the BRIC is a
 dedicated 0.5FTE academic post, all labs have a dedicated academic lead, and the centre is
 supported by a full-time onsite radiographer and emergency medical support.

 A new £24M facility (Intercity Place) is set to open in September 2022 at Plymouth railway station
 close to the main campus which will house the staff and majority of research facilities of the School
 of Health Professions and School of Nursing & Midwifery. This building will double the number of
 research laboratories available to UoA3 staff working in these disciples and will incorporate a
 bespoke applied optics laboratory and wet laboratory for human and animal tissue. In addition, the
 facility will bring together the post-graduate communities from both schools into a single office
 located adjacent to the research laboratories.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 The unit supports a number of outward-facing structures that foster research co-working and impact:

 South West Clinical Schools
 UoA3’s South West Clinical Schools (SWCS) are centres for nursing research in five local NHS
 Trusts (Royal Devon and Exeter, University Hospitals Plymouth, Royal Cornwall Hospital, Somerset,
 Torbay & South Devon). The SWCSs are led by senior UoA3 nurse clinicians (Endacott, Kent,
 Latour, Pearce, Shawe) and have engaged >80 clinicians this REF period on research or quality
 improvement projects. In 2019, the Torbay Medical Research Fund awarded £250K to the SWCSs
 to support nurses, midwives and allied health professionals to develop applied health research
 relating to their clinical service. The funding will support doctoral fellows, who will undertake a PhD
 while continuing in their clinical role, and pre-doctoral fellows, who will spend the equivalent of one
 day a week over one year preparing a PhD. application. This support resulted in 5 successful NIHR
 Clinical Doctoral Research Fellowships (Lyndon, Collings, Rapson, Ede, Logan). Further awards
 included £500K Health Foundation Scaling Up Improvement for PROMISE (Pressure Reduction
 through Continuous Monitoring In Community Settings), a collaboration between Cornwall
 Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, the University of Plymouth and the University of Southampton
 to reduce avoidable and unavoidable pressure ulcers. Internationally, the SWCS shares
 methodological expertise in clinical research projects (e.g., Fudan and Hunan Universities, China;
 University of Leuven, Netherlands; Kiang Wu Nursing College of Macau).




                                                                                        Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 South West Health Innovation Alliance
 The alliance established in 2020 is a cross-sector partnership maximising opportunities for health-
 related research, innovation, knowledge exchange and R&D to generate economic growth in the
 Plymouth region. Initiated through £160k of co-investment funding from partners, and run by a full-
 time Manager, the Alliance brings together the University, businesses, NHS, health and care
 organisations, local government and public sector bodies, providing a focal point for and gateway
 into the City’s health innovation ecosystem. Notable impacts of this collaborative partnership
 approach to date include supporting the development of the City’s Lighthouse Lab bid to the
 Department of Health and Social Care and securing £1M+ funding from the Heart of the South West
 Local Enterprise Partnership to set-up a Health Tech Innovation Hub at Plymouth Science Park
 (jointly owned by the University and Plymouth City Council).

 Plymouth Public Health Forum
 This collaboration between the University and Plymouth City Council showcases public health
 research and encourages networking between groups to promote public health research. Two or
 three public events are organised each year and 35-40 people attend from community organisations
 (e.g., Plymouth Community Homes, Well Connected), Charities/volunteer organisations (e.g., Soup
 Run); the Local Authority; University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust and the University. Meetings
 include talks on initiatives including ‘Thrive Plymouth’ the city’s 10-year plan to reduce health
 inequalities and understand chronic disease in the city.

 International/national roles
 UoA3 staff have played significant roles in the national structures that frame health related research
 in the UK, for example in the NIHR: Deputy Director, NIHR ARC for the South West Peninsula
 (Byng), NIHR Programme Grant panel (Byng), NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic (ICA) Clinical
 Doctoral Research Fellowship panel (Endacott (deputy chair), Marsden, Hickson), NIHR
 Research for Patient Benefit panel (Hickson, Kent, Pearce, Freeman), NIHR ICA Pre-doctoral
 Clinical Academic Fellowship panel (Marsden, Hickson), Management committee for NIHR ICA
 Mentorship for Health Research Training Fellows programme (Marsden, Hickson), NIHR Training
 Advocate for Dietetics (Marsden, Hickson); Neurodegeneration National Specialty Group (NIHR
 CRN) (Lead/Chair since 2017, Carroll); InterAct and Integrated Academic Training Operational
 Group (NIHR Academy member; Carroll). Senior Investigator and member HTA and RfPB panels
 (Banerjee).

 Our influence has had a major international reach, including Scientific Committee member CLEAN
 AIR Africa NIHR programme (Rupert Jones), Co-Director Global RECHARGE NIHR programme
 (Rupert Jones), Co-Director Lung Institute, Makerere University, Kampala (Rupert Jones),
 Evidence Panel for the XChange registry (Axford); Linked Clinical Trials Committee (International)
 (Carroll); Grant Committee, Research Foundation Flanders FWO – Reproductive Health (Shawe);
 Qatar Research Fund Committee member - Maternal & Reproductive Health (Shawe); Grant
 Committee member of the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (Latour); Chief
 Nursing Officer England, Leading Change Adding Value Research working group member (Kent
 2017-2019); Royal College of Nursing Research Society Steering Committee (Kent); Nordic Council
 of Ministers Nordic Health Data Research Projects on COVID-19 panel (Kent). International Family
 Nursing Association Country Liaison Coordinator and International Family Nursing Foundation Board
 member, International Network of Child and Family Centred Care Chair (Neill). Advisor on Dementia
 Research to WHO, Alzheimer’s Disease International and the EU (Banerjee).

 There are also numerous cases where we have helped to shape the direction of research at the
 National level, highlights include: BTS pulmonary rehabilitation quality improvement advisory group
 (Rupert Jones), Chair of Scientific Committee of the Salford Lung Study (Rupert Jones), National
 COPD Audit Primary care group (Rupert Jones), BTS Quality Standards group for Pulmonary
 Rehabilitation (Rupert Jones); Cure Parkinson’s Trust Research Committee (Carroll); Parkinson’s
 UK Grant Assessment Panel (Carroll); Parkinson’s Portfolio Development Group (Carroll);



                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Trustee/Director Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre (ICNARC) (Endacott);
 Trustee/Director National Confidential Enquiry into Patient Outcome and Death (NCEPOD)
 (Endacott); Invited nurse representative - National Advisory Group for Contraception in England
 (Shawe); Royal College Obstetricians & Gynaecologists Faculty SRH Clinical Studies Research
 Group (Shawe); Royal College Obstetricians & Gynaecologists Faculty SRH Training Committee
 (Shawe); NICE LARC Adherence Research Advisory Committee (Shawe); NICE Sexual Health
 Review Consultation Group (Shawe) Healthcare Safety Investigation Branch expert advisor (Neill),
 Royal College of Nursing Standards for Assessing, Measuring and Monitoring Vital Signs in Infants,
 Children and Young People (Neill)

 Our staff take leadership roles across key journals: Journal Family Practice (Byng), Journal of
 Children’s Services (Axford), Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetic (Hickson); Associate Editor
 BMC Pregnancy & Childbirth (Shawe); Associate Editor BMJ Sexual & Reproductive Health
 (Shawe); Editor Faculty of General Dental Practitioners (Tredwin); Editor Implementation Science
 (Kent 2009 -2017); Editorial Advisory Committee JBIES (Kent); Editor-in-chief International Journal
 of Geriatric Psychiatry (Banerjee).

 Covid-19
 The University through its FoH moved swiftly to respond to local and national needs as the pandemic
 evolved. Equipment was loaned from our Derriford Research Facility through the Army's Second
 Logistic Division to the Lighthouse testing centre in Northern Ireland. We also loaned equipment,
 including large bench-top centrifuges, to the local testing laboratory at the University Hospitals
 Plymouth NHS Trust. At the first peak of the epidemic, Derriford Hospital testing laboratory lacked
 sufficient trained personal and we established a live document of volunteers with PCR skill from our
 laboratories with 48 individuals on call.

 While complying fully with government measures, we put considerable support in place to maintain
 our virus research programmes. These included funded contributions to national programmes of
 vaccine development, local programmes such as clinical serology research into the virus and our
 own vaccine development programme spearheaded by our spin-out The Vaccine Group. This
 support included keeping our research faculties open for vaccine development with special safety
 measures in place. Through contingency-planning, when lock-down eased we were well prepared
 with risk-assessments and safety equipment for a rapid re-start of our research which has been fully
 operational since July 2020. Banerjee is leading the ESRC-funded DETERMIND C-19 grant which
 investigates the effects of the pandemic and responses to it on people with dementia and their family
 carers. Freeman leads a UKRI (MRC) funded grant (through the Covid scheme) with the aim of
 developing an assessment toolkit and training package to upskill practitioners to implement tele-
 rehabilitation for people with physical disability. Byng is leading the Plymouth site of the ‘Remote by
 Default’ Covid-19 project, funded through the ESRC, which will focus on the impact of remote by
 default on inequalities. Investigation of the scale-up of ‘remote-by-default’ working, where patients
 no longer automatically access face-to-face appointments, as a result of COVID-19 in Plymouth will
 help reveal any positive and negative impacts on individuals living in poverty or with complex needs.

 Lighthouse Plymouth
 The university's support of Covid-19 vaccine in combination with our unhesitating support for local
 and national testing was a strong factor in the selection of Plymouth for a 40K sample/day Lighthouse
 testing centre, based close to the DRF and operational from February 2021. The faculty ADR sits on
 the steering. group for the centre, and has worked to develop the opportunity for work and experience
 for UoA3 PGRs and alumni; similar support from the FoH has been significant to establishing
 regional LAMP testing laboratories, such as at Truro.




                                                                                        Page 17
