Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 The University submitted to UoA17 (Geography, Environmental Studies and Archaeology) in
 REF2014. At that time the subject areas for the submitting unit were grouped together
 strategically within the Institute of Science and the Environment (ISE). The submission reflected
 a dramatic improvement in the unit’s performance compared to the RAE2008 submission with
 over 35% of outputs scored 3* or higher, compared to only 10% of outputs at 3* (and none at 4*)
 in RAE2008. The best quality outputs were found in the areas of hydrology, hydroecology, and
 rural land management. The current submission provides evidence of sustained areas of
 excellence from 2014, alongside a greater level of inter-disciplinary research the result of which
 has been: a substantial increase in successful funding applications (22 awards worth >£544k),
 an increased number of research collaborations, and enhanced research capacity through
 investment in research facilities and infrastructure.

 In 2018, the University went through an academic restructure introducing Colleges and Schools
 (see REF5a 1.1.4-1.1.5). Staff in the submitting unit are based in the School of Science and the
 Environment in the College of Life, Health and Environmental Sciences, and are drawn from the
 Department of Geography, Archaeology and the Environment.

 The University Research Strategy 2014-2019 outlined the key role played by Research Groups
 in operationalising plans and ambitions for excellent research (REF5a 2.1). To support the
 overall delivery of the strategy, the University held a series of events focused on each of the
 Areas of Distinction. These events were designed to bring researchers together from across the
 University whose research aligned with the areas, with aim of highlighting existing areas of
 strength, establishing new collaborations, and developing cross- and interdisciplinary responses
 to problems. The events identified areas of strength and areas for development and led to
 development of new research groups and collaborations.
 Two of these Areas of Distinction were ‘Economic, Social and Environmental Sustainability’ and
 ‘Human Health and Wellbeing’, achievements against which are reflected in this submission. In
 2019, to further enhance the vitality and sustainability of the research environment, research
 groupings within the School of Science and the Environment were reviewed. There has been a
 long pedigree in relation to research in the areas of river science and rural research within
 Geography and emerging contributions from Archaeology and Environmental studies were
 highlighted in REF2014. The review of research groupings provided the opportunity to link
 established research fields more closely than previously, to encourage contributions from a
 wider group of staff, to support inter-disciplinary research and to encourage new areas of across
 College and University research.

 Two research groups are identified within this submission, reflecting areas of expertise and
 strategic focus:

 The Pollen and Aerobiology Research Group (PARG): The mission of this group is to
 understand the formation, release, transport, transformation and removal of bioaerosols in the
 atmosphere and how this affects the general environment. There are three areas of distinction
 evident by research underway within the group:
     • Human health and exposure: pollen forecasting and palynology
     • Plant health and food security: crop diseases and invasive species
     • Atmospheric processes and detection of bioaerosols




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Sustainable Environments Research Group (SERG): This group brings together colleagues
 to deliver excellent research that brings benefits to people and the planet. ‘Sustainable
 environments’ encapsulate any situation where there is potential for environmental impacts to be
 mitigated and for environmental benefits to be achieved. Research is underway within the group
 in 5 thematic areas which draw on expertise from across the disciplines of geography,
 environmental studies and archaeology:
     • Food security
     • Sustainable livelihoods
     • River Science
     • Conservation and management of habits and species
     • Sustainable places

 Research across the College is overseen by a College Director of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange (Professor Eleanor Bradley) who works closely with the School senior leadership
 teams and the Research School on areas of research strategy; recruitment and staff
 development; chairs a College RKE committee which oversees implementation of University
 RKE strategy; works with Research Group leads and organises College-wide research events.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 Research groupings have been utilised within the School to provide focus for research project
 activity, investment, and staff development. Group activity enables delivery against the central
 aspiration outlined within the UW Research Strategy: ‘To develop excellent research with social,
 cultural and economic impact’.

 Specific ambitions for the groups are to 1) continue to build, support and develop areas of
 research excellence in river science and geography and 2) to develop greater strength and
 depth across geography more broadly and to increase research maturity in environmental
 Studies and archaeology. The groups have developed their own research strategies and
 approaches to achieve these ambitions and work is underway to align these strategies with the
 newly approved UW Research Strategy 2020-2025.

 University research support schemes have supported the ongoing development of research
 groups within this submitting unit as follows:
    • The Research Outputs Facilitation Fund (ROFF) is a College fund awarded to
        researchers to facilitate the final stage of research projects into publication. Funding has
        been awarded to 2 projects in River Science Research and 1 Archaeological research
        project.
    • The Vacation Research Assistantship Scheme (VRAS) - staff submit a proposal for
        research to be supported by a student working as a research assistant for up to three
        months over the Summer period. Ten projects from colleagues in this submission were
        funded, including Lewis, Visser, Maddock (2), Dutton, Fyffe, Ashbrook, Milner (2)
    • Supporting Research Excellence Scheme – the scheme provides staff with full or partial
        remission from teaching and / or other duties for a period of up to two semesters (8
        months) to undertake a project with a clear set of outcomes (see REF5a 3.2.3). Staff
        from the submitting unit have successfully applied for SRES (Dixon, Maddock, Milner,
        Storey, Visser), all producing research aligned with this submission.

 The University further supported research developments over the period by creating post-
 doctoral research fellow (PDRF) posts for a 3-year fixed term period. Two PDRFs were
 appointed to support River Science research (Hill, Woodget), with a further PDRF appointment
 to support sustainable livelihoods research (Carrie).

 University funding has been utilised to support studentships in strategic areas for research as
 follows: River Science (5 studentships), rural geography (1 studentship), sustainable livelihoods

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (1 studentship), pollen and aerobiology (2 studentships). See Section 2 for full details of
 studentship support.

 Impact Strategy

 The delivery of impactful research is a core priority within the University Research Strategy. The
 two case studies selected for REF2021 are a direct result of our strategy to pursue and support
 research that makes a difference. To achieve impacts in ‘Mapping and mitigating harmful
 invasive species,’ and ‘Wetland management and Sustainable Livelihoods in Sub-Saharan
 Africa’ we have provided targeted support including the allocation of two University funded PhD
 studentships, and the appointment of an early career researcher.

 These case studies exemplify our approach to achieving impact by working directly with
 stakeholders including policy makers and relevant organisations. Pathways to dissemination
 and, therefore, impact are considered at project conception, and incorporate measures to
 frequently engage with stakeholders, culminating in enhanced outcomes. Working with
 stakeholders to develop research programmes also ensures research objectives will address the
 most pertinent issues that are of direct relevance to the end users of our research. To ensure
 our approach to achieving impact is current, we continue to adapt our dissemination plans as
 new opportunities arise. For example, during the Covid-19 Pandemic, communication with
 stakeholders took place via webinars rather than face to face on-farm events.

 Research has been further supported through the purchase of new state-of-the-art equipment
 (see Section 3). This has increased research capacity and enabled a greater depth of inquiry
 and has led to more impactful research findings.

 Workshop events to increase awareness about research impact have been held including a
 University wide event for all staff to consider research aligned with Areas of Distinction with
 potential for impact (2015); a full day workshop (2017) for academic staff to consider Research
 Impact; Presentation to UW Executive group to highlight ongoing areas of research with impact
 (2017); Half day impact workshops for UoA co-ordinators (2018). Impact Mentors were
 assigned to ICS authors to provide support with impact work through the REF period.

 Open Research


 The University is committed to developing and maintaining an Open Research environment. It
 fundamentally recognises the value of open access publication to the HE sector, to the public, to
 the University and its researchers but most vitally to the integrity and value of the research.

 All staff are required to upload outputs from research onto WRaP, the University’s research
 repository. The College is provided with monthly reports on OA compliance from a central Open
 Access Team based in library services. Information about WRaP and OA features in staff
 induction, training workshops are offered through a staff development programme, 1-1 support is
 available on request from the Open Access and Advocacy Support officer. College events with a
 focus on particular databases, including Scopus, have been held over the period for all
 academic staff.


 There is an Open Access funding application scheme available which has been accessed by
 staff from across the College, to support Gold Access publications. Colleagues have
 successfully applied for funding through this scheme over the period including Milner, Visser,
 Woodget, Grundstrom, Skjoth.

 The University will look to review and revise its Open Access Policy in 2021 in light of national
 and international developments, in particular Plan S. The University has recently signed up to



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and has established a working
 group to implement its principles.


 Research Integrity

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity & Governance Committee has oversight
 of policies and procedures to support research integrity and its Chair is the University’s
 Research Integrity Champion. The champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across
 University through developing training and support for staff but also raising its profile.

 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs and Vice Chairs are
 experienced researchers whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the College; lay
 reviewers are also recruited to the panel. Training is provided to all reviewers before they
 engage in the role. There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are fulfilling their
 role.

 The University’s Research Integrity champion works closely with the Chairs of Ethics Panels at
 College level to ensure a culture of research integrity is embedded in the wider research culture
 of the College, offering support and guidance to research students and staff and maintaining a
 high profile for the research integrity agenda.

 Future strategic aims

 Our aim is to nurture creativity and promote research excellence enabling full engagement with
 the institutional vision of being recognised through outstanding impacts for RKE. In 2020, the
 University produced a new Research and Knowledge Exchange strategy identifying five Areas of
 Challenge (see REF5a 2.3). Colleagues are already conducting impactful research in two of
 these areas (‘Human Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Sustainable Futures’) but have the potential to
 support developments across all five. To achieve this will require ongoing support for inter-
 disciplinary research and across-University collaboration. Progress against this goal will utilise
 data drawn from research income, the volume and quality of research outputs, and the reach
 and rigour of research impact. These outcomes will be reviewed at College RKE Committee,
 with SMART objectives built into Research Group strategies and forthcoming School operational
 research plans.

 The two research groups will be supported to sustain the excellent research already underway
 as well as to introduce new developments in key areas:
    • The PARG will build on its previous successes influencing policy by maintaining and
         creating new research collaborations both nationally and internationally.
    • The SERG will support members to develop research within the thematic areas of priority
         (food security, sustainable livelihoods, sustainable places, rivers science, conservation
         and management of species and habits), utilising university and College mechanisms of
         support for research, in addition to focusing bidding activity in these areas. New
         stakeholder relationships will be pursued (local, regional, national, and international) with
         a focus on policy makers. Clear routes for KE and research will be identified through a
         mapping exercise to identify new, and existing, stakeholders.
    • All new research projects underway within the groups will be required to outline clear
         impact pathways for anticipated outcomes.

 We will continue to retain and recruit excellent researchers at all career stages and will seek to
 increase the number of PGR students overall, but particularly as aligned with our research
 groups. Job descriptions will reflect research underway across the School and will be designed
 to attract colleagues who can contribute to work within the research groups. A review of plans to
 support staff on teaching, full academic and research posts will be undertaken at School level,

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with a focus on aligning staff with research group activities as appropriate. This will include the
 provision of training for Heads of Department around setting research objectives and workload
 planning for all academic staff; routine evaluation of research and KE achievements at annual
 performance reviews; identification of staff for the research mentor scheme.

 Research in new areas, not aligned with existing groups, will be identified through the regular
 College research update and School bidding reports. This information will enable colleagues to
 consider joining groups aligned to their areas of research from across the University, as well as
 the development of new research groupings within the School. Any new research groupings will
 be required to be aligned to national and international areas of research priority, notably the
 UKRI. Excellence in research from across the School will be celebrated through all-staff School
 meetings and College events.

 To support and develop our Research Leaders (Professors and Research Group leads),
 colleagues will be encouraged to engage with a renewed Research Leadership programme
 designed for new research group leads and newly appointed professors. A new programme of
 support for existing professors will be developed for delivery across the University. College and
 School events will be held on a regular basis. Research outputs will continue to be rewarded
 through the University recruitment and promotion scheme, which includes a Professorial
 Mentoring scheme.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Recruitment

 The Department of Geography, Archaeology and the Environment comprises Category A staff
 as follows: six Lecturers, three Senior Lecturers, eight Principal Lecturers, and three Professors,
 whose teaching and research is supported by nine technical staff. All School staff on standard
 academic contracts are required to be research active; and whilst those on teaching-focused or
 support contracts (e.g. technical staff) do not have this contractual requirement they still
 contribute to the overall research and scholarly environment of the department. This promotes
 diversity in our research portfolio and provides the opportunity for staff to explore and pursue
 their research aspirations within an open research environment. The College Director of RKE is
 routinely involved in new standard academic appointments, providing input to the post details,
 outlining specific areas of research experience and expertise (to align with RKE priority areas)
 as well as interview and selection processes.

 There have been a series of post-doctoral research appointments made to strengthen areas of
 research priority, to increase capacity for excellent research, but also to attract excellent
 researchers to the University: 6 post-doctoral research fellows (PDRFs) have been appointed,
 including a Marie Curie Fellow, to work in areas of aerobiology, river science and sustainable
 environments.

 The PDRFs were aligned with talented researchers in the department, to enable their ongoing
 research developments, demonstrating an ongoing determination to invest in the future of
 research. ECRs have also been targeted to join supervisory teams for the doctoral studentships
 awarded over the period. The success of these initiatives can be seen through our outputs in
 areas of research priority (river science, aerobiology, sustainable environments), as well as the
 dramatic increase in research funding (see Section 3) and in our impact case studies, but also
 by recognising that some of these individuals have since secured senior roles either within the
 University or elsewhere (e.g. Carrie).

 Through our research activities we have attracted visiting researchers. From 2016-2017, and
 2017-2018 we hosted visits from two South Korean researchers based at the National Institute
 of Forest Science (previously the Korea Forest Research Institute) to work alongside Professor

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nick Evans. In 2017, a visiting researcher from Spain and another from Finland, funded by the
 Finnish Research Council, were hosted at the university to conduct aerobiology research with
 Professor Carsten Skjoth. In 2020, a visiting research student from India was funded by the
 British Council Newton Bhabha PhD placement scheme to work with Professor Skjoth for a 3-
 month period.
 Progression and Succession Planning

 The University runs an annual reward and promotion scheme for staff and research
 achievements form a central part of this scheme. Table 1 highlights that those who have
 reached more senior positions (Professor, Principal Lecturer) are indeed making a significant
 contribution to the research outputs within this unit:

 Table 1
  Contract level                            % Eligible                 % Submitted
  F1 (Professor)                            23                         27
  I0 (Principal Lecturer)                   54                         45
  J0 (Senior Lecturer)                      15                         18
  K0 (Lecturer/ Research Fellow or          8                          10
  Assistant)

 There have been 2 successful Professorial applications in the period (Skjoth, Maddock)
 increasing the number of Professors within the Department from 1 to 3 (Skjoth, Maddock,
 Evans). This offers the potential for additional senior leadership for the mentoring of other
 academic staff keen to advance their careers through research activities.

 Staff Development


 To support a thriving and inclusive research culture we are committed to developing and
 maximising the research potential of all staff on standard academic contracts, and at all stages
 of their careers. All academic staff are expected to engage in research, appraisals are
 instrumental in providing a framework to discuss research income and output writing objectives,
 but also staff development needs, which might include attendance at relevant courses and
 workshops for which there is a budget at School level.
 Research aspirations are further supported through membership of one of the School’s research
 groups, which have outlined 12 month and 3-year research objectives. There is a School budget
 to support staff to undertake external training.
 An important resource for early career researchers and staff is the Researcher Development
 Programme which comprises a series of workshops over each academic year. Workshops are
 delivered by senior researchers and professional staff at the University but also draw on external
 presenters and utilise resources offered through Vitae and other professional development
 organisations. The programme includes a Research Leadership Programme, designed for more
 experienced research staff, including research group leads and newly appointed Professors.
 These are University-wide programmes providing colleagues with the opportunity to meet other
 research active staff outside their Departments / Schools, encouraging interdisciplinary research.

 Staff from across the University also come together on a regular basis for the School Research
 Seminar Series and the College Research Seminar series. The School seminar series has run
 throughout this REF period and draws on a scholarly mix of internal and external staff and
 postgraduate speakers throughout the academic year. The series includes an annual Lovett
 lecture which is open to members of the public as well as staff from across the University. The
 COVID-19 pandemic has escalated work to make these seminars more widely available to
 internal and external colleagues through recordings and by hosting online. Both seminar series
 moved online in 2020, attracting higher average attendance numbers, whilst providing the
 opportunity to make them widely available to relevant external organisations.

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mentoring is an important aspect of staff development. There is a University wide mentoring and
 coaching scheme which brings together senior and emerging researchers, according to
 expertise and experience. There are a range of training and resources available for mentors and
 mentees engaged with this scheme. In addition to this, there is a separate professorial
 mentoring scheme for staff preparing for the annual call for professorial applications. This
 scheme aligns existing professors from across the University with those preparing applications.
 Overall, the Department is committed to meeting its staff development demands and aims to
 provide relevant opportunities enabling all to maximise their academic potential.

 Research Students

 There has been a significant increase in research student completions within this submitting unit
 during the current assessment period, with 14 doctoral completions compared to 3 in REF2014.
 There have also been 10 MRes completions in the period.

 7 PhD students (5 full-time and 2 part-time) and 3 MRes students (2 full-time and 1 part-time)
 are currently enrolled, with 4 of the PhD students being supported by studentships. This reflects
 the commitment from the University to support PGR students in areas of strategic importance.
 There has been a total of 12 studentships supported and an additional 3 studentships co-
 supervised with a Director of Studies from UoA5. Of these, 9 were fully funded and 6 were co-
 funded. This reflects successes in winning external funding for studentships (for example, 2
 have been supported by Marie-Curie funds). The increase in numbers of MRes students has
 been supported by the creation of three new research degree programmes in areas of research
 activity (MRes River Science, MRes Ecology and Environmental Management, and MRes
 Archaeology).

 Recruitment and selection to the PhD programmes is overseen locally by a PhD course leader.
 Their role is to ensure that only excellent students are accepted onto the doctoral programme
 and that supervisory teams meet the requirements of our Research Degree Programme
 regulations. The course leader also works with academic staff, Research Group leads and the
 College Director of RKE to advertise self-funded PhD opportunities. The course leader also
 monitors progress, providing advice and support to supervisory teams and students where
 required, as well as overseeing the School’s enhancement plan for its Research Degree
 Programme.

 The University has a well-established graduate school (branded as the Research School) that is
 responsible for the management of all Research Degree Programmes from recruitment to
 examination, in partnership with the academic schools (see REF5a 3.3.2-3.3.3).

 The University has expanded the Research School team to reflect the growth in student
 numbers over the REF period. It provides a dedicated work and social space for students. The
 Research School team, co-located in the student space, provides advice and guidance for
 students on their programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing departments such
 as the Disability & Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, careers service, also offers
 pastoral and wider support. A comprehensive programme of support and guidance has been
 developed for PGR students and supervisors around mental health and wellbeing.

 All students on research degree programmes are required to undertake an associated training
 programme, run by the Research School (REF5a 3.3.4-3.3.5). The programme has been
 mapped against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of
 modules, short courses and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are
 compulsory for all doctoral students, focused on the following core areas: planning and
 managing research; academic writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and
 ethics; dissemination, engagement and impact; careers and employability.
 The University also supports students to engage with external training where this is specialist
 and not available through the University’s programmes. Students are also able to access training
 offered through the GuildHE Research network

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach and can access modules and workshops to
 develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy. The University offers research student-specific dissemination
 opportunities including an annual “Images of Research” exhibition and student-led PGR
 Conference. The University provides funding opportunities for students to attend and speak at
 external conference and events and separate funds to support students to develop inter and
 cross-disciplinary networks, seminar series, conferences and events. The University is a
 member of the Brilliant Club, a charity focused on improving access to University, which
 provides opportunities for doctoral students to go into schools and deliver tutorials in their area
 of expertise. The Research School also provides ad hoc opportunities: for example, in 2019 the
 lead for the development programme worked with a student team to deliver a University
 programme for Pint of Science.

 Office space for PhD students is provided at the Research School, but there is additional space
 available for those students who require access to specific on campus facilities (for example,
 laboratory space). Feedback is sought from doctoral students via the Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES) every 2 years (see REF5a 3.3.6) and feedback has been utilised
 over this period to encourage doctoral students to feel more embedded within the culture of the
 College. For example:
 • The School and College Research Seminar series encourage participation from doctoral
     students
 • Students have been invited to provide posters at College Research events and work is also
     displayed within the School
 • There is research student representation on the College RKE Subcommittee which ensures
     the student voice is fed into the development of research strategy at College level
 • Doctoral students are provided with opportunities to work with UG students to support the
     development of student societies (e.g. the UW Biology Society), help with specialist teaching,
     serve on committees of external organisations, and make significant contributions to STEM
     outreach and widening participation activities

 Supervision at Worcester is always by a team consisting of a DoS (who must be based at the
 university) and up to two other supervisors. The team must have relevant expertise and
 collective experience of supervision. Staff with no prior experience of supervision are supported
 to take on Director of Studies (DoS) roles with the support of a supervisory mentor. Supervisors
 are therefore selected in relation fit to the project. All supervisory teams must be approved by
 the University’s Research Degrees Board.

 The Research School maintains a register of approved supervisors which identifies the expertise
 and experience of supervisors. The register is reviewed on an annual basis. There are currently
 15 approved supervisors from the submitting unit, a significant increase from 8 in 2014.
 The Research School provides opportunities for the professional development of experienced
 and new supervisors through a supervisor development programme. This programme has been
 in place for some 20 years but was rethought and relaunched in 2018/19. The programme offers
 a wide range of support for supervisors at various career stages on themes such as: introduction
 to supervision, supervisory styles, regulations and processes, supervising international students,
 PGR mental health and wellbeing, supporting student progress. New supervisors must
 complete the whole programme but more experienced supervisors must also engage with core
 elements and all supervisors are required to engage in regular refresher training (every 3 years).

 Training is complemented by other development opportunities including: supervisor lunches that
 bring together supervisors to discuss key topics and challenges in supervision; the Share and
 Inspire series, and external professional development for supervisors provided through the UK
 Council for Graduate Education (UKCGE).




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does. Its policies and processes
 are designed to disadvantage no-one and are subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to
 ensure this is the case.

 The unit’s approach flows from this with the Head of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted. Line managers are sure staff are aware of and are
 supported to engage with, for example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave
 policies, its policies which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff
 wellbeing initiatives (see REF5a 3.1.8)

 Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working policy (REF5a
 3.1.8) with a move to part-time or compressed hours. There is no evidence that this has
 impacted on research productivity, access to funding or progression. It is notable that both at
 institutional (REF5a table 2) and unit level, part time staff are as well-represented in the
 Category A submitted as eligible category.

 Staff in the unit have taken parental leave in the assessment period. They have received active
 support to transition back to work after the leave period, through “keeping-in-touch” days,
 phased return, mentoring. It is ensured that where a staff member takes parental leave this does
 not impact on research leadership or supervisory roles. The School has a fair and flexible
 approach to working, particularly during the current lockdown period in recognition of the
 challenges of home schooling.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff were members of the University’s
 Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze Award in
 April 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years. Staff are
 also engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with the
 LGBTQ+ Allies scheme.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 There has been a significant increase in research income across the REF period, rising from
 £92K in 2013/14 to £544K in 2019/2020. Key successes include securing funding from: the
 Natural Environmental Research Committee (NERC) in collaboration with Bangor University
 (lead) and the University of Exeter to explore the use of molecular genetics in understanding
 grass species pollen deposition (Skjoth); a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship (Grundstrom);
 and a Marie-Curie Career Integration Fellowship (Skjoth). These prestigious grant awards have
 led to the delivery of high-quality research and consequently the publication of several high-
 quality outputs of significant impact.

 Colleagues have also successfully diversified income streams through strategic targeting and
 the engagement of relevant stakeholders, receiving funding from 20 sources over the current
 period. These have included:
     • Government Agencies: The Forestry Commission (Dutton); The Environment Agency
         have funded 3 river science research studies over the period (Maddock)
     • Charity: Funding has been awarded from the Priddy Charitable Trust for 3 archaeology
         research projects (Lewis) and the Somerset Archaeological and Natural History Society
         funded a further 2 archaeological studies (Lewis) since 2014.
     • Professional Societies: The British Society for Geomorphology and Quaternary Research
         Association funded 2 studies over this period (McDougall).
     • Industry: Evans and Maddock have undertaken contract research for industry partners.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure

 The University has invested significantly in research support infrastructure over the REF period
 (see REF5a section 4). The University has established robust Pre- and Post-Award processes
 for externally funded projects (approved in 2018/19 and subject to evaluation and review in
 2020/21). These processes scaffold the Research Office support systems set out above and
 ensure good governance for bids and for projects.

 Within the College, there is an RKE facilitator who disseminates information about new
 opportunities for research funding to colleagues, works closely with Research Group leads to
 develop a research funding profile (including fingerprinting for Research Professional), provides
 tailored information about specific opportunities on request and registers information about bids
 in preparation. Peer review for draft bids is encouraged for every submission, and mandated for
 larger value bids, as well as those targeting Research Council and UKRI opportunities. The peer
 review process is co-ordinated by the College Director of RKE, utilising expert feedback from
 academic colleagues across the College.

 It has been recognised that the processes need to incorporate Equality Impact Assessments at
 various stages of both pre- and post-award. In lieu of this broader development, the University
 has adopted the BBSRC EIA guidance and template for reviewing research bids. It has also
 been agreed to undertake a review of bidding over a 5-year period from an equality perspective
 and this will be completed in 2021. The review will inform the development of support
 mechanisms for bidding.

 Our strategy for generating research income is based on providing relevant support with regards
 to affording staff time to engage with research and providing internal funding to pump prime
 research leading to the development of new research programmes. This is underpinned by three
 support mechanisms:

    •   The ‘Research Support Scheme’ considers applications of up to £2.5k enabling
        colleagues to: i) undertake small scale pilot or pump priming projects; ii) analyse
        research data that has already been collected to enable dissemination/publication; iii)
        collect impact data relating to complete or ongoing research projects, and iv) facilitate the
        use of existing research and the exchange of knowledge between the University and
        external stakeholders.
    •   The ‘Facilitating International Research Collaboration Scheme’ supports the
        objectives of the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) by promoting research with
        organisations in eligible DAC countries, and considers applications up to the value of
        £2.5k.
    •   The ‘Research Outputs Facilitation Fund’ (ROFF) was established to support the
        University aim to build on the successes from REF2014. The fund (up to £1k per
        application) exists to support unfunded research which can demonstrate a high likelihood
        of leading to a return for submission in the REF (an output or evidence towards an
        impact case study), or an external funding application. Colleagues can also apply for
        contributions towards co-funded PhD studentships, especially when this involves
        engagement with industry.

 To support academics with research activity, the University established a ‘Researcher Pool’ in
 2018, enabling colleagues to readily appoint a research assistant(s) once funds have been
 received through our research support mechanisms. Colleagues can also apply for internal
 funds enabling dissemination of research findings at national and international conferences.
 These arrangements ensure that support is in place for colleagues to engage effectively with
 new and existing research collaborators, whilst increasing their capacity to publish research and
 disseminate accordingly.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facilities

 Researchers have access to a range of well-equipped laboratories for water and soil analysis,
 including spectrophotometers and an MP-AES. There is also a GIS suite with high specification
 PCs running industry standard survey and photogrammetry software. The School subscribes to
 ArcGIS and Digimap. Computer equipment for field use has also been invested in with 4x
 Panasonic Toughpads and 4x Apple iPad minis added to our existing suite of field computers.

 The field survey equipment has been updated with over £100k of new survey equipment added,
 including a Leica laser scanner, two Trimble survey grade GPS systems (Trimble R8 and 2
 Trimble R10s) with real-time RTK via an annual VRS subscription and a Noggin 500 DC/ST
 ground penetrating radar.

 The department has consistently invested in purchasing and maintaining and up to date fleet of
 both rotary and fixed wind Small Unmanned Aircraft (SUAs) alongside holding a CAA approved
 PfCO license. The fleet of rotary SUAs includes a DJI Phantom 4 PRO, Inspire 1, Matrice 600
 and three Phantom 4 RTK drones complete with Survey Grade GPS base stations. The fixed
 wing fleet of SUAs includes a C-Astral Bramor and three Bormatec drones. A range of different
 payloads has been purchased across the fleet of drones including RGB cameras and video-
 cameras, multispectral cameras, particle counters and a Sniffer 4D (for mapping Aerial
 Pollutants including VOCs, CH4, NO2, O3, CO, SO2, PM1.0, PM2.5 and PM10). The School
 has invested in camera equipment to support research and fieldwork including GoPro’s, GoPRO
 Max’s, and an Insta PRO 2.

 The School maintains two permanent river monitoring sites, the equipment in which is regularly
 replaced and updated including new YSI multiparameter Sondes and ISCO water samplers.
 Both sites have also been updated to provide telemetry accessible via an online web service and
 database storage. Additional river monitoring equipment has also been purchased including
 AquaTec Turbidity probes and Solinst conductivity, level and temperature loggers.

 There has been investment in the expansion of our airborne particulate monitoring systems,
 including over £100K on a Rapid E real-time airbourne particle identifier. We also installed
 weather stations and rainfall monitoring sites. A Nissan Navara 4x4 Truck has been purchased
 for Geography / Archaeological / Environmental fieldwork.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration

 Staff in the unit have developed national and international collaborations. For example, in 2016,
 with a Darwin Initiative Scoping Award, Dixon collaborated with the University of Belize,
 Maddock and Woodget have worked with the University of Concepcion, Chile, to investigate
 the use of UAS and SfM for rapid mapping of native fish habitat prior to the construction of
 hydroelectric power dams, and with the University of California. Maddock has also collaborated
 with the Institute of Water for the Republic of Slovenia. Visser and Woodget have collaborated
 with the University of Antwerp and Ghent University to develop and test the use of hyperspatial
 remote sensing data for water quality and flood risk model validation. In 2018, Visser
 collaborated with a global network of scientists on a drone photogrammetry project measuring
 vegetation biomass in non-forest ecosystems (part of NERC-funded DRIVING-C project,
 NE/R00062X/1).

 Colleagues have also had active involvement in EU-funded COST action networks. Skjøth has
 been part of SMARTER (2012-2016) in which he was the vice-chair and scientific co-ordinator
 and is currently the chair for ADOPT (2019-2023). Maddock was a member of SMIRES (2015-
 2020) and is currently a member of HARMONIOUS (2018-2023).



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At the national scale, through NERC grant (NE/N002431/1) Skjøth has worked closely with
 Public Health England, Asthma UK, and the Met Office. Evans has actively engaged with the
 Malvern Hills AONB Partnership and in collaboration with Keele University on a farmers TB and
 vet project. Maddock has worked with the North Worcestershire Water Management Group
 (Local Authority), and the Environment Agency. Dutton has worked with the Forestry
 Commission to investigate social aspects of feral wild boars. Lewis has worked in collaboration
 with the University of Reading and Bath Spa University. Through these collaborative endeavours
 we have successfully contributed to national and international agenda-setting research.

 Contributions to the Research Base

 Since REF2014, we have increased our long-term contribution to the research base by engaging
 extensively in collaborations internationally and nationally with other universities, research
 centres, industry, and other non-government organisations. Existing collaborations have been
 strengthened and new relationships initiated. Research has been directed towards impact at
 multiple scales, to increase its reach, and to bring about change in government policy and
 practice. Key areas of expansion have been in the fields of aerobiology (Skjøth & Smith),
 sustainable livelihoods (Dixon), and river science (Maddock, Visser & Woodget). In addition to
 what is captured in the impact case studies (Dixon) and Skjøth), during the period 2014 to 2020
 we have developed relationships with key research users, bringing about important changes to
 practice. For example, research by Maddock, Visser & Woodget has been instrumental in
 advancing the toolkit of river science practitioners for quantifying physical river habitat
 parameters at spatial scales relevant for the health and survival of instream biota. This
 contribution to the research base has benefited government agencies (e.g. Environment
 Agency), chartered institutions (e.g. Institute for Water Engineering and Management), wildlife
 trusts, charities, and commercial organisations on local to international levels.

 Staff within the submitting unit have contributed to the sustainability of the discipline through
 engagement with professional associations and learned societies. For example, Skjøth has
 been a board member of the European Aerobiological Society (EAS), and the International
 Aerobiological Society (IAS) since 2008. In 2014, Maddock was part of the International
 Organising Committee for the 10th International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Trondheim,
 Norway, and in 2016 was part of the International Scientific Committee for the 11 th International
 Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Melbourne Australia. Smith was on the Scientific Committee for
 the 11th International Congress of Aerobiology, Parma, Italy (2018).

 We have organised and hosted several important conferences specifically aligned to our
 research expertise to maximise our contribution to the discipline. For example, in 2016 we
 hosted the 4th annual Small Unmanned Aerial Systems for Environmental Research
 (UAS4Enviro) international conference, led by Maddock and Visser. Since 2014, Dixon has
 been a member of the organising committee for the Beacons Development Education Centre
 Annual Conference.

 Colleagues have attended international conferences and delivered keynote talks. For example,
 in 2018 Dixon presented his research as a keynote speaker at the United Nations World Water
 Week in Stockholm, Sweden, and at the European Geosciences Union General Assembly in
 Vienna 2015. Skjøth delivered a keynote lecture at the 10th International Congress on
 Aerobiology, Sydney, Australia 2014, and the 11th International Congress on Aerobiology,
 Parma, Italy 2018. The university will also be hosting the 12th International Congress on
 Aerobiology in 2022, chaired by Skjøth. In 2017, Skjøth gave a presentation at the Palynology,
 Aerobiology and Allergy Science (PAAS) symposium, Vienna, Austria, and in 2020 Skjøth gave
 a keynote lecture at the 7th European Symposium on Aerobiology, Cordoba, Spain. In 2017,
 Woodget gave an invited talk at the EnviroDrones Conference (Hanover, USA). Storey
 delivered a presentation at the 47th Conference of Irish Geographers (Belfast, 2015), whilst
 Evans gave an invited presentation at the 2nd Irish Rare Breeds Conference in 2018. In 2014
 Dutton delivered an invited presentation on managing wild boar at the joint British Ecological
 Society-Field Studies Council Symposium on Conservation Evidence. Lewis has given keynote

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presentations at the Mendip Hills Heritage Conference (2013, 2015), and Somerset
 Archaeological and Natural History Society Annual Symposium (2016). Lewis has also delivered
 talks as an invited speaker at the Theoretical Archaeology Group Conference (University of
 Chester, 2018), and the Prehistoric Society Conference (Woking, 2015), and at the Bronze Age
 Forum (Queens University, Belfast, 2013).

 During the census period, colleagues have made valued and important contributions through
 peer-review for a wide range of journals and publishers across the disciplines captured by this
 unit including Journal of environmental studies and sciences; Geojournal; International Journal
 of Sustainable Development and World Ecology; Journal of Environmental Management;
 Applied Geography; Geomorphology; Hydrological Sciences Journal; River Research and
 Management; Journal of Rural Studies; Landscape Research; Social and Cultural Geography;
 Progress in Human Geography.

 Staff also hold membership of editorial boards including Dixon (Wetlands), Skjøth,
 (Aerobiologia), Smith (International Journal of Biometeorology; Aerobiologia; Grana), and
 Visser (Journal of Maps).

 A further indicator of our contribution to the discipline is through our external examination of 15
 national and three international doctorate students. During the census period colleagues have
 examined at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden (Skjøth, 2015), University of Antwerp,
 Belgium (Visser, 2016), University of New England, Australia (Maddock, 2016), University of
 Aberdeen (Evans, 2014), University of Manchester (Skjøth, 2014; Lewis, 2014), Queen Mary
 University of London (Maddock, 2014, 2017), University of Birmingham (Lewis, 2013, 2014;
 Dutton, 2015), University of Huddersfield (Dixon, 2016), University of Leicester (Evans, 2017),
 Newcastle University (Visser, 2018), Royal Holloway University of London (Maddock, 2018),
 University of Wolverhampton (Dutton, 2018), Cranfield University (Maddock, 2019), and
 Loughborough University (Maddock, 2019).

 Colleagues have influenced international research priorities through panel membership of the
 Newton Fund (British Council) (Skjøth 2015+). We have also made on-going and significant
 contributions as reviewers for UK and international Research Councils, and other grant awarding
 bodies. This includes the Belgian Federal Science Policy Office (Skjøth), Science Fund of the
 Republic of Serbia (Skjøth), Swiss National Science Foundation (Skjøth, Storey), Estonian
 Research Council (Maddock), German Research Foundation (Smith & Visser), National
 Science Centre Poland (Visser), Paris Institute for Advanced Study (Storey), UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowships (Maddock), BBSRC-GCRF (Dixon), ESRC (Evans), NERC (Evans &
 Smith), Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Evans), Czech Science
 Foundation (Evans), Defra (Evans), Riksbankens Jubileumsfond, Sweden (Evans), and the
 British Council Newton Links, and Research Links programmes (Skjøth). Visser is also a
 Council Member for the Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society (RSPSoc), and is chair of
 their Education & Training committee which oversees the development, co-ordination and
 execution of the Society’s policies in promoting awareness of remote sensing and
 photogrammetry among teachers and students at all levels (2017+). In 2019, Evans participated
 in the Defra review of the Action with Communities in Rural England (ACRE) funding scheme
 which influences national and local policies. Since 2014 Lewis has been a member of the
 Somerset Archaeological & Natural History Society Heritage Grants Committee.

 Colleagues have delivered numerous talks at other universities and organisations. For example,
 Dixon gave a research seminar at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand in 2017, and the
 University of Huddersfield in 2018, whilst in 2019 Skjøth delivered an invited presentation to the
 Royal Meteorological Society (Reading). Maddock delivered a seminar at the University of
 Leeds (2019). Lewis has given research seminars at the University of Bristol (2016) and
 University of Chester (2019).




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contribution to Economy and Society

 Colleagues also frequently engage with the public through an active programme of public talks
 and lectures including the ‘Pint of Science’ programme of public events, Professorial inaugural
 lectures and Professorial talks delivered at The Hive. Our research is also disseminated via
 online media including Twitter. Dutton has delivered multiple talks at Mammal Society
 workshops. Woodget has given invited talks on UAVs at several workshops, including those run
 by the British Geological Survey (2014), Environmental Agency (2015), and Natural England
 (2017). Woodget has also presented research findings on the use of drones for river habitat
 assessment at an event organised by the Chartered Institute for Water Engineering and
 Management (2016), and the Institution of Environmental Sciences (2015). Dutton has also
 given a series of talks to local wildlife trusts.

 Dixon is a member and co-founder of Wetland Action, an international network of researchers
 and practitioners that aim to disseminate good practice in sustainable wetland management
 primarily in Africa. Dixon also provides pro bono technical advice for Self Help Africa, an
 organisation dedicated to ending hunger and poverty in rural Africa.

 Colleagues have obtained fellowships. For example, in 2017 Dixon was a visiting Erskine Fellow
 at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand. Dixon was also a Trustee of Tiyeni (Malawian
 NGO) from 2014 - 2017 and is now a member of their Technical Advisory Team (2017 +). From
 2017-2018 Smith was a Scientific Advisor for an allergen project at Uludağ University, Turkey,
 and from 2014-2020 Smith was a Scientific Advisor for a project on pollen monitoring and
 modelling, at the Technological University, Dublin, Republic of Ireland, funded by the Irish
 Environmental Protection Agency. Maddock is a Trustee for the Severn Rivers Trust, which was
 established to secure the preservation, protection, development and improvement of the rivers,
 streams, watercourses and water bodies in the Severn catchment (2019+). From 2014-2015
 Dutton was on the Mammal Society Scientific Committee providing advice on feral wild boar and
 their re-emergence in the UK. Since 2007, Lewis has been on the Advisory Committee for the
 Clwyd-Powys Archaeological Trust and is a Council Member and Grants Administrator for the
 Prehistoric Society (2018+). In 2014, Smith was a Visiting Professor at the Adam Mickiewicz
 University, Poland.




                                                                                         Page 14
