Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 21 - Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 All staff returned to UOA 21 are members of the Sociology Department at Sussex and represent
 all our Category A eligible staff (19 individuals, 18.5 FTE). The Department, which includes
 Criminology and Gender Studies, is a creative, interdisciplinary, politically and socially engaged
 environment. Our staff are sociologists, criminologists, anthropologists, political and feminist
 theorists, who collaborate within and outside the Department in the Sussex tradition of radical
 social science. Our research is clustered in six overlapping areas: (1) Criminology, Violence and
 Transgression; (2) Gender, Politics and Society; (3) Health, Medicine and Care; (4) Political
 Sociology; (5) Migration and Human Rights; and (6) Social Theory, Identity and Culture.
 However, we remain open and responsive, to the interests of incoming colleagues and
 developments in the social world.

 Since REF2014 the Department has almost doubled in size (14–26.20 total FTE). This has been
 a period of stability as we are still located in the School of Law, Politics and Sociology. School-
 level infrastructure is important to our research environment, allowing collaboration between
 cognate disciplines and providing funding and other support augmenting that offered by the
 University. Much of our growth has come from Criminology, which has expanded to form half the
 Department. Our Criminology research is politically and sociologically informed, with particular
 strengths in terrorism, hate crime and historical criminology. Criminology colleagues are also
 centrally involved with the University-wide Centre for Gender Studies (housed in the
 Department), enhancing its reputation for the study of violence. All this has further diversified the
 Department and cemented our interdisciplinary base.

 For REF2014, the Department’s objectives focused on producing high-quality research which
 engaged fully with academic audiences and benefited society at local, national and international
 levels. Our strategy was to ensure all researchers had a shared definition of ‘quality’ and were
 supported to achieve it, that staff understood how to build external partnerships and win funding,
 and that our research addressed issues of social justice. However, as the Department has
 grown, we have become more ambitious. Our current objectives are as follows:
     1. To push the boundaries of what Sociology, Criminology and Gender Studies mean and
         what they can focus on;
     2. To build on expertise in innovative methods, expanding how research can be done;
     3. To engage local communities in the co-production of knowledge;
     4. To make positive contributions to national and international policy, social and cultural
         agendas;
     5. To support staff to gain funding, and attract externally-funded researchers;
     6. To contribute positively to the discipline(s) through nurturing talented scholars who
         produce research of significance, however they define it.

 Our achievement of these objectives is evidenced throughout our REF2021 submission, and has
 been accomplished via the following strategies:
    a) Making the most of Sussex’s interdisciplinary environment and tradition, and our location
       with the School of Law, Politics and Sociology;
    b) Developing strong collaborative relationships locally, nationally and internationally;
    c) Supporting researchers throughout their careers and especially ECRs, through
       mentoring, time, resources and training;
    d) Identifying opportunities for external funding and leveraging internal support to attract it;
    e) Supporting all staff to participate in engagement activities, and to think strategically about
       research impact;
    f) Seeking out talented and creative academic staff who can help achieve our objectives.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our interdisciplinary research

 Our first two objectives are to push the boundaries of scholarship theoretically and
 methodologically: interdisciplinarity is crucial to this. In line with our strategy, we make the most
 of the Sussex environment. We provide leadership for five interdisciplinary hubs which allow our
 clusters to interact with and influence the institution as a whole. The Centre for Gender Studies,
 set up in 2003, was led or co-led by Phipps 2005-2017, and has been co-led by Mason-Bish
 since 2017. Moran-Ellis co-directs the pan-University Centre for Innovation and Research in
 Childhood and Youth, housed in the School of Education & Social Work. The University network
 for Ethnicity, Race and Diverse Societies was founded by Edmunds, Lewicki and Morosanu,
 bringing together over 50 Sussex staff. Wilson co-leads the Crime Research Centre, which
 operates across the School. There is also the Sussex Terrorism and Extremism Research
 Network, co-led by Lakhani with colleagues in Law. Morosanu has a long involvement with the
 Centre for Migration Research in the School of Global Studies, and Delanty with the Centre for
 Social and Political Thought in the School of Media, Arts and Humanities.

 We conduct a number of research projects with colleagues from Law, and network and
 collaborate across boundaries with Social Work, Anthropology, Psychology, Cultural Studies,
 Informatics, Medicine and other disciplines. There are also ongoing collaborations with the
 Sussex Humanities Lab, an interdisciplinary centre for researchers focusing on digital
 technology and computational culture, and the Science Policy Research Unit (SPRU). The
 Department hosts an interdisciplinary seminar series attended by staff and students across the
 University, with international speakers from academia, the media, think-tanks and NGOs, on
 varied topics such as the ‘dark net’, ‘left-realist’ criminology, the sociology of the microbiome,
 and the global refugee crisis. The Centre for Gender Studies also organises a programme of
 events: topics have included stigma in the sex industry, gender in higher education, female
 genital cutting, and racism after Brexit. Many of these events have been co-sponsored with other
 University centres such as the Centre for the Study of Sexual Dissidence (English), the Centre
 for Higher Education and Equity Research (Education), and the Centre for Conflict and Security
 Studies (International Relations).

 Our research draws great strength from our interdisciplinary approach. Staff in our social theory
 and criminology clusters are achieving our first objective of introducing and theorising novel
 topics: for instance, Fincham’s work on the sociology of fun, Scott’s work on the sociology of
 nothing, Scott and McDonnell’s work on asexuality and Wilson’s work on pre-emptive policing.
 Members of our political sociology cluster have developed new perspectives on contemporary
 social and political issues: for instance, Lewicki’s work on European Islamophobia and Phipps’
 work on white feminism. In pursuit of our second objective, we have made key contributions to
 the development of innovative methodologies. Fincham’s work has significantly influenced the
 development of ‘mobile methodologies’, building on his co-authored book of that name, the first
 of its kind. The Changing University Cultures (CHUCL) collective (McDonnell, Phipps) has
 created the methodology of Grounded Action Inquiry, which combines sociology and
 organisational development. Lakhani’s collaborative research with Informatics has involved
 Method 52, an innovative machine-learning system for ‘big data’ analysis. Seal recently co-
 authored the monograph Imaginative Criminology, which makes use of oral history, fiction,
 walking methodologies and arts-based research. McDonnell leads the School Research
 Methods Cluster which meets monthly to discuss topics such as mindful data collection,
 autoethnography, and psycho-social methods.

 Our interdisciplinary infrastructure has also helped us win £1,862,845 in grant awards during this
 REF period (see Section 3). For instance, in projects focused on the Criminal Cases Review
 Commission and Lewes Prison, we collaborate with colleagues from Law. With colleagues from
 the Centre for Migration Research, Morosanu has won funding for several major international
 projects focused on youth mobility, twinning, and supporting refugees (Ymobility, MirNet and
 Trafig). In 2015, the Centre for Gender Studies leveraged internal University funding to support a
 major collaborative award. A network on genders, sexualities and crime was set up to connect
 faculty from Sociology, Law, Anthropology, Education and International Relations with external

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academics from Brunel, York, Lancaster, Glasgow Caledonian, Johannes Kepler (Austria),
 Kelaniya (Sri Lanka), G.d’Annunzio (Italy), Cincinnati and Maine. It also included representatives
 of the End Violence Against Women Coalition, Galop, and the Office for Democratic Institutions
 and Human Rights. Participants went on to develop a successful bid to the European
 Commission, for the Universities Supporting Victims of Sexual Violence (USVReact) project.

 Because we are an intellectually and methodologically adventurous Department, we take our
 ethical responsibilities very seriously. Research ethics are built centrally into our curriculum, and
 our ethics expertise is sought both within and outside the University. Between 2016 and 2019,
 McDonnell was Chair of the University’s Social Sciences and Arts Research Ethics Committee
 (CREC). She has published on ethics in journals such as Qualitative Research and the
 International Journal of Social Research Methodology and has delivered training on ethics and
 research methods at Sussex, Exeter, Goldsmiths and the University of East Anglia. Seven
 additional staff members have served on the University ethics committee, and Scott and
 Edmunds served as School Research Ethics Officers 2010-14 and 2014-18 respectively.
 Lowton, who has a medical background, was recently invited to contribute a chapter to the Sage
 Handbook of Qualitative Research Ethics.

 CREC provides rigorous review of our research: all faculty and PGR research proposals
 involving human subjects are submitted, plus any PGT or UG student project deemed high-risk
 (lower risk projects are reviewed in the School). Proposals receive detailed and supportive
 feedback from two reviewers, and researchers are guided through the resubmission process.
 Ongoing advice on ethics during the conduct of projects is provided by the Chair and members
 of the Committee. We adhere to the British Sociological Association’s Statement of Ethical
 Practice and have made use of more recent BSA material on using Twitter for criminological
 research (Lakhani, Wiedlitzka) and conducting digital research more generally (Phipps).

 Engaging with the outside world

 Our third and fourth Departmental objectives focus on engaging with local communities and
 contributing positively to national and international policy, social and cultural agendas. We value
 this engagement as an end in itself: in line with our strategy, all staff are encouraged to
 undertake engagement activities and think about facilitating impact from their research, whether
 they are developing REF case studies or not. Impact is often built into our research from the
 outset as it addresses social issues such as health, migration, terrorism and sexual violence.
 However, we also create the conditions for further impact, through developing collaborative
 partnerships and exploring creative ways of translating and communicating findings. We see
 impact as a process that takes time and resources and encourage staff to leverage School and
 University funds as well as giving 0.1 FTE remission to Impact Case Study authors. Practical
 support for impact is provided by our Department Research and Impact Lead, the School
 Research Facilitator and the Impact Coordination team (see Section 2).

 Our impact case studies have been selected to exemplify our interdisciplinary and collaborative
 research. Crossing criminology, sociology and gender studies, both case studies emerge from
 collaborative relationships built both before and during research activity (including the NUS,
 Universities UK and the 1752 Group for Phipps, and the Home Office, Tech Against Terrorism,
 and the UN Counter-Terrorism Executive Directorate for Lakhani). All staff are encouraged to
 build such strong collaborative external partnerships, and have done this with organisations at
 local, national and international levels (see Section 4). The Centre for Gender Studies has an
 associate member scheme for local and national NGOs and community groups: current
 members are local women’s services Rise (domestic violence) and Survivors’ Network (sexual
 violence), and national organisations Galop (anti-LGBT hate crime) and SWARM (sex workers’
 rights). This has supported co-production: for instance, Phipps has collaborated with SWARM on
 a submission to the government’s 2016 prostitution inquiry and a number of policy briefings, and
 colleagues have benefited from the association with Galop in their research on hate crime.



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We employ creative dissemination strategies so our research can be as socially beneficial as
 possible. For instance, Fincham has presented his work on the sociology of fun at a number of
 festivals such as Latitude, Secret Garden Party, and the Obonjan festival in Croatia. Wiedlitzka
 has spoken on hate crime at the Finsbury Park Mosque and Victim Support. Colleagues have
 presented to policymaking audiences such as the Council of Europe, the Home Office and
 Universities UK, and Phipps sits on Brighton and Hove City Council’s Sexual Violence and
 Abuse Operational Group. In addition to using University platforms Sussex Research Online and
 Elements for green open access and accessing institutional arrangements for gold open access,
 we are active on Academia.edu and ResearchGate, Facebook, Twitter and other platforms. The
 Department has Twitter and Facebook accounts for Criminology, Gender Studies, and
 Sociology. CHUCL has an international email network of over 200 individuals. Staff also teach
 pro-bono for the Free University Brighton (Martell, Telling) and the Socialist Educational
 Association (Telling).

 We translate our research into accessible formats: 126 of our outputs have achieved 3083 total
 mentions on Altmetric. Delanty’s work appears in a British Academy outreach book on Brexit
 (European Union and Disunion), and Phipps has recently written a trade book (Me, Not You: the
 trouble with mainstream feminism) which has been reviewed in the Times Literary Supplement,
 the Spectator, Tribune and the New Socialist. These two colleagues also maintain personal
 blogs, and Phipps’ blog receives over 30,000 hits per year from 90 countries. Between 2012 and
 2019, Will was a member of the editorial collective for the British Sociological Association-funded
 blog Cost of Living, covering issues in the sociology of health. Staff have written for international
 media (e.g. Times Higher Education, the Guardian, the New Statesman, the Huffington Post, the
 Washington Post, DIE ZEIT and Funke Mediengruppe) and for The Conversation. They have
 been interviewed on national radio programmes such as BBC Breakfast, Thinking Allowed,
 Woman’s Hour, Archive on 4, The One Show and The World at One, and on local radio. All
 these engagement activities give us a strong public sociology presence: we are at the forefront
 of contemporary debates around issues such as migration, Brexit, hate crime and sexual
 violence, terrorism, and trans and sex workers’ rights.

 2. People

 Our staffing strategy aims to meet teaching requirements while recruiting creative colleagues
 who will help achieve our research objectives, so recruitment has been loosely based around
 our six research clusters. Five of our seven new permanent Category A appointments have been
 ECRs at the time of appointment. We have made strategic appointments in the criminology
 cluster to constitute this as a unit. These are: Wilson as professor, and Lakhani, McGuinness
 and Wiedlitzka (the latter now departed) as lecturers. We have also made a key senior
 appointment in Lowton, to strengthen our health cluster following the departure of other staff.
 Morosanu and Lewicki have built the new cluster on migration, and Telling, a sociologist of
 education, has revived a previous strength of the Department.

 We believe job security is key to a working environment in which staff can develop significant
 research. Most staff are on permanent contracts, and we aim to hire on a permanent basis, or to
 convert fixed-term to permanent contracts, wherever possible. We currently have one Category
 A staff member on a fixed-term contract (Neale), which is a three-year full-time Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship. McDonnell, who had been on successive short-term contracts at Sussex
 since 2004, was made permanent in 2016 as a Research Fellow and is now Senior Lecturer.
 Facilitating permanency is key to our strategy of supporting researchers, especially ECRs.
 Having a majority of staff on permanent contracts also means we are able to achieve good
 succession planning for key Department roles.

 In adherence to our strategy, the University’s Strategy 2025 and other frameworks such as the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, we support researchers
 throughout their careers and especially in the early stages. All new staff receive workload
 reductions and are allocated a mentor, to support them with targets and advocate for them in
 probation processes. Other staff are supported through Personal Research Planning meetings

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with our Research and Impact Lead and appraisals with the Head of Department. These focus
 on individual goals and leveraging any support and resources we can offer. Staff access training
 through mechanisms such as the research methods cluster, PhD supervisor training events and
 the Equality and Diversity Committee (see below). The School Impact Coordination Team (see
 below) have delivered bespoke workshops on topics such as knowledge exchange and
 communicating with policy audiences. Staff also access training offered by staff development at
 the University. Supporting researchers also involves attention to their wellbeing, and we have
 organised events such as a women’s/LGBT monthly lunch and weekly meditation sessions and
 encouraged staff to use University occupational health services.

 As a Department with relatively high staff-student ratios (23.1:1), supporting staff research also
 means creating time and space for them to think creatively and innovatively – this is an ongoing
 project. We have created a formal research leave rota on the basis of eligibility for one term’s
 leave every three years, for both full and part-time staff (fixed-term staff are also eligible).
 Applications require a research/publication plan and a post-leave report (although we
 acknowledge that time to think can take research in new directions). Leave has also followed
 substantial administrative roles and been awarded to support staff with heavier workloads or to
 new staff to help them achieve probation targets (in addition to their standard workload
 reduction). Although implementing our leave policy has been challenging, staff have benefited
 from this dedicated time. Key outputs produced during leaves include Fincham’s book The
 Sociology of Fun, Phipps’ book The Politics of the Body, Delanty’s book The European Heritage,
 and Scott’s book The Social Life of Nothing (all listed in REF2). Staff securing external funding
 receive workload reductions in line with award specifications, and we aspire to provide small
 reductions where no such specification exists. We have credited 0.1 FTE for Impact Case Study
 authors.

 As well as creating time, we have supported research through providing and leveraging financial
 resources. This has included a research allowance of £750 per year to fund research support,
 conference attendance, equipment and books. Staff have also had the opportunity to apply for a
 further £500 from the School. Staff with external funding receive 10% of overheads in a Personal
 Incentive Fund. Staff have also had access to four new School funds: a research development
 fund, a research cluster fund, a research methods training fund, and an impact support fund
 (these funds began in 2016/17 and were allocated £30K total per year, increased to £40K in
 2018/19). These have funded research assistance, training, travel and consumables, and
 targeted teaching relief. We have also encouraged staff to apply to University funding schemes
 (see Section 3).

 Research support is channelled through the Department Research and Impact Lead and other
 specific staff roles in the Department and School. During this REF period we have had a School
 Research Facilitator, who has advised on bids and impact strategies, and facilitated cross-
 School collaborations. The School’s Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange and the
 University’s Research Quality and Impact (RQI) team are also important resources, and we have
 participated in and contributed to initiatives such as the Sussex Impact Day. We have our own
 nominated Research Development Officer who hosts drop-in sessions, circulates funding calls,
 and delivers training. Since April 2018, the School has had an Impact Coordination Team, which
 links us with the Policy@Sussex unit and wider networks such as the Universities Policy
 Engagement Network. The team have developed tailored guidance on impact, a monthly Policy
 News Bulletin and a series of training workshops. They have worked closely with five colleagues
 (impact case study authors and three others), developing policy briefings, websites and
 brochures for projects. They have supported our impact case studies at all stages of
 development.

 Research students and postdoctoral researchers

 We take the support of early career researchers very seriously, and our definition of a research
 career begins with the PhD. The Department has a steady flow of 80–100 PhD applications per
 year, attracted via staff reputation, postgraduate open days and our website. Due to changes in

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding availability since REF2014, these are now converted into an average of 4-9 new
 starters. As an interdisciplinary Department, we are interested in talented researchers in many
 areas, and will seek co-supervision outside the School if required. Students on our Gender
 Studies (Social Sciences) programme are often supervised in cross-School teams. During the
 review period, we have awarded 34 PhDs in Sociology and Gender Studies (Social Sciences).
 Staff have also supervised successful PhDs outside the Department, for instance in Social &
 Political Thought, Migration Studies and Gender Studies (Humanities).

 The School is a founder member of the ESRC South East Network for Social Sciences (SENSS)
 Doctoral Training Partnership Consortium, and the Consortium for the Humanities and Arts
 Southeast England (CHASE) Doctoral Training Partnership. During the review period we have
 had two AHRC/CHASE and 15 ESRC/SENSS-funded students. As well as being indicators of
 the quality of our doctoral research, involvement in these consortia has provided opportunities
 for students to access research training and capacity-building on funding, publication, career
 development, and impact. The School has also had its own annual scholarship scheme offering
 fee-waiver scholarships (two Home/EU, one Overseas) with the best of these eligible for a living
 expenses stipend at RCUK rates. The high-quality applicants awarded these scholarships (four
 of whom have been based in Sociology) have made a significant contribution to our research
 community.

 Our support of PhD students is achieved through dedicated staff roles - the Director of Doctoral
 Studies in the School, and the Department Research Degrees Convenor - as well as
 supervisors. The Research Degrees Convenor works closely with supervisors and students,
 managing induction and re-induction, dealing with ongoing issues and reporting regularly to
 Department meetings and the School Research Degrees Committee. All PhD students are jointly
 supervised, with a requirement for one ‘experienced’ supervisor (with at least one completion).
 Supervisors attend termly training, and there have been half-day events on topics such as
 processing applications, trouble shooting, ethical review, and supporting students’ professional
 development. Staff are also encouraged to access supervisor training provided by the University.

 PhD students are provided with a clear framework for progress. At the end of the first year, they
 produce a research outline read by two faculty members and discussed at a formal meeting.
 They are then cleared to progress with no, minor or major corrections, or supported to resubmit.
 There is also an annual monitoring process overseen by the Director of Doctoral Studies, which
 ensures all parties are satisfied with progress and the supervisory relationship. Development
 needs are met via referral to a range of training modules on the MSc Social Research Methods
 or the University’s Researcher Development Programme. The School also organises annual
 PhD away days focused on topics including publishing, developing media profiles, presenting at
 conferences and teaching. There have been sessions on how to secure academic and non-
 academic jobs, which have involved input from specialist University services (careers, research
 administration) and former students. We are also concerned with PhD student wellbeing, and
 CHUCL has contributed to University initiatives around PhD student mental health. Recently,
 PhD students have been supported to apply to the University’s COVID-19 hardship fund.

 We see PhD students as colleagues who contribute significantly to our research culture,
 presenting at Department and research centre seminars, and sharing their work with peers in
 dedicated events. Funding is available to facilitate their attendance at international conferences,
 from Research Councils, the School and the University’s Doctoral School (the Doctoral
 Overseas Conference Grant – our students have received nine grants from this fund during this
 REF period). Three of our students have made successful applications to the University’s
 Researcher-Led Initiatives Fund, which is also open to early career researchers. Many of our
 PhD students access paid teaching opportunities in the Department: we have had 36 PhD
 students working as Associate Tutors during this REF period, 13 of whom have been from
 Sociology and Gender Studies.

 Postdoctoral researchers are also fully integrated into the Department. They are housed in
 offices in the School, are invited to all Department meetings and events, and are supported with

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their career development through the appraisal and personal research planning processes as
 well as by their Principal Investigators and mentors (who have access to training provided by the
 University). They are given assistance with publications, bids and other aspects of career
 progression, and time and funding to undertake relevant professional development. They are
 also encouraged to access training opportunities through the University’s Researcher
 Development Programme.

 Because of this support and in fulfilment of our sixth Departmental objective, many of our PhD
 students and post-doctoral researchers have progressed into other roles in the Department, or in
 other Departments and at other institutions. Two of our former PhD students (David Davies and
 Gillian Love) have become permanent teaching fellows in the Department (Love’s contract was
 approved for conversion to a lectureship in late 2020). Other PhD students have taken up
 academic positions which include lectureships at Brighton University, Southampton University,
 King Saud University, the University of Helsinki and Queen’s University Canada, and
 postdoctoral research posts at University College London and the National University of
 Singapore. Alexa Neale came to us as a research assistant from a PhD in the History
 Department and was subsequently supported to develop her three-year Leverhulme bid. Other
 colleagues employed as Research Fellows in the Department have moved on to research posts
 in the Department of Media & Film at Sussex, at York University, Brighton University, and the
 European University Institute in Florence.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

 Creating a supportive environment for researchers is not just about individuals: tackling
 structural inequalities is key. The Department makes a significant contribution to the University’s
 EDI infrastructure and the School Equality and Diversity (E&D) Committee. Our current
 Department Research and Impact Lead with primary responsibility for this REF submission
 (Phipps) chaired the School E&D committee from soon after its inception (2015) until 2018,
 developing its terms of reference and strategic plan. Following this McDonnell was Chair, and
 leadership passed to the Law Department in 2020. Seal and Mason-Bish have served as
 committee members. The committee consists of academic and professional services staff across
 the School, to cover as many protected and other relevant characteristics as possible. Its Terms
 of Reference are to:
     • recommend, monitor and actively promote the implementation of the School’s policies,
         schemes and practices for EDI across the nine protected characteristics, and the
         additional characteristics of gender identity, socio-economic background, part-time,
         hourly-paid and fixed-term working, and parental and other caring responsibilities;
     • make regular reports to the School Executive Board;
     • report annually to the University’s EDI Unit.

 This committee goes beyond adherence to the University’s EDI policies, integrating equality and
 diversity into School structures and processes. Its strategic plan is based on the SHAPE
 capacity-building model developed by CHUCL (co-led by Phipps and McDonnell), which is also
 informing policies and initiatives in other UK universities and has had a significant impact on the
 work of the Sussex EDI unit. SHAPE is an evidence-based model through which institutions and
 departments can nurture capacities suppressed in marketised higher education: self-awareness;
 honesty; action; political consciousness; and empathy. As a result, cultures can emerge in which
 policies are more useful and issues dealt with more effectively. The School equality and diversity
 strategy has three aims under SHAPE: (1) To construct a clear and transparent picture of key
 EDI issues in the School; (2) To develop effective actions such as policies, procedures and
 initiatives; and (3) To encourage staff to communicate honestly and openly, meeting issues with
 empathy and goodwill rather than defensiveness or indifference.

 Many activities have been undertaken in pursuit of these aims. For example, under (1) there
 have been School EDI and bullying & harassment surveys, two programmes of focus groups on
 staff wellbeing, and training on conduct and communication which also produced a qualitative
 dataset. Under (2) the School has introduced a dedicated HR representative, launched guidance

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on gender-inclusive language, revised the staff probation procedure, ensured that the personal
 circumstances statement is used in promotions, created a new section in appraisal forms
 recognising EDI-related work, and implemented new job advertisement wording inviting under-
 represented groups to apply. The chair of the E&D committee chairs the School promotions
 committee, reviews all personal circumstances statements and ensures the process is
 conducted in line with the University’s EDI strategy. Under (3) the School has commissioned
 training on conduct and communication, disability awareness and micro-aggressions, and
 assisted with staff requests for reasonable adjustments.

 Although much work remains, we are confident that these activities have set a process of
 cultural change in motion in the School. There are future plans for training on bullying and
 harassment, and to respond more specifically to the under-representation of BAME staff and
 students. The School also conducted an anonymous survey on staff experiences of the COVID-
 19 pandemic and lockdown and the associated changes in teaching provision and
 planning/conduct of research. The E&D committee will offer support and guidance as School
 policies are developed, which will aim to respond to the impact of the pandemic taking full
 account of intersecting inequalities.

 Another relevant EDI structure is the University’s Flexible Sussex initiative, which Department
 staff have made good use of. Part time staff have good career pathways: we have one professor
 (Phipps at 0.8, previously 0.6 FTE), one reader (Will at 0.7) and one senior lecturer (Edmunds,
 previously 0.7) currently or previously working part-time (all are being submitted to REF). Their
 promotions have all been achieved in a timely manner and Phipps has been featured as a case
 study on the University website and in the 2017 annual report of the All-Party Parliamentary
 Group on Women and Work. We convert fixed-term contracts to permanent ones when possible,
 and/or support fixed-term staff to progress to other institutions. Study leave is offered to part time
 staff on the same basis as full-time colleagues, and we aspire to more advanced arrangements
 such as study leave or lighter teaching loads for staff returning from maternity, sick leave or
 other career breaks.

 In addition to the staff research allowance, the Head of Department has discretion to authorise
 small amounts of funding for, for example, childcare support during events or research trips.
 Staff make good use of occupational health facilities and the Department makes reasonable
 adjustments where possible (for instance, providing office equipment or altering teaching
 schedules – although the latter is constrained by timetabling and space). The School has an
 ongoing relationship with a professional coach, and four colleagues have been funded to access
 coaching sessions. The Department works closely with HR to support staff members struggling
 with mental or physical health issues. During the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown we
 implemented informal flexibility with workloads and research expectations (for instance, for staff
 homeschooling children or caring for relatives), and will develop initiatives to respond to the
 effects of the pandemic in line with the School strategy.

 We have adhered closely to the University’s code of practice in preparing our REF submission,
 and Phipps as Research and Impact Lead has undertaken training with Advance HE covering
 equality and employment law, workplace diversity and unconscious bias. We have also
 implemented the SHAPE framework, for instance through ensuring assessment criteria and
 feedback on outputs are communicated honestly and transparently but with empathy around
 how feedback might be received, especially by junior or marginalised colleagues. We have
 encouraged colleagues to share any worries or concerns about REF with the Research and
 Impact Lead or Head of Department. Our review panel has been gender-balanced and we have
 sought multiple and external opinions on all outputs, to ensure we have reached our selection
 through an intersubjective process. We have adhered to the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment, ensuring that journal-based metrics are not used as a surrogate
 measure of quality. Part-time status, maternity or other leaves have had no negative impact on
 output or impact case study selection, but staff have been encouraged (though not pressured) to
 disclose any individual circumstances affecting their ability to produce research during the REF
 period.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 With assistance from the Chair and other members of the School Equality and Diversity
 Committee, we have reviewed our outputs selection against the equalities data the University
 currently collects. Staff with stated disabilities are 5.3% of REF-submitted staff compared to
 3.1% of staff on all academic grades in the Department (although both figures are very low).
 Reflecting the discipline of Sociology as a whole, women are very well represented in the
 Department (16 of 27 academic staff and four of six professors) and a greater proportion of staff
 submitted to REF (68.4%) compared to staff on all academic grades (65.6%). However, looking
 at these data intersectionally reveals that these women are all white: BAME colleagues are
 significantly under-represented in the Department, and BAME staff are a lower proportion of staff
 submitted to REF (5.3%) than of staff on all academic grades (12.5%, which is slightly lower
 than the 14.3% in UK Sociology as a whole). This is due to the fact that we only have one BAME
 Category A staff member – even though job advertisements since 2016 have explicitly invited
 BAME (and LGBT) candidates to apply.

 This is a serious problem, and it is important to be honest about it. We will launch a
 Departmental working group on BAME staff under-representation in Spring 2021, based on the
 SHAPE model and coordinating with the School E&D committee and the University’s Race
 Equality Charter team. We plan to conduct similar work on LGBT and disability under-
 representation in coming years, and although we may tackle the matters separately due to
 resource and capacity issues, we will take an intersectional approach so there will be significant
 overlap.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our fifth Departmental objective is to generate income. We have achieved this in multiple ways,
 including responding to calls and tenders, applying to Research Councils and other
 organisations, and seeking commissions. We have leveraged internal funding to support our
 projects. Although we aspire to attract more funding, we see grant capture as part of developing
 significant research, not as an end in itself. We value smaller awards alongside larger ones, not
 least because these can lead to impact, especially if linked to policy (Phipps’ impact case study
 originally springs from a £9K grant from NUS). Smaller awards can also facilitate the capture of
 larger ones as staff develop reputations for delivering outputs on time and to brief.

 During the review period, we have won £1,862,845 in grant awards to the Department from our
 leadership of and contribution to collaborative awards totalling £3,768,220 (all subsequent
 figures reflect Departmental award not total budget). Some have come from funders such as the
 ESRC, Wellcome, the European Commission, Leverhulme and the British Academy, and bodies
 such as the Home Office. However, our ability to seek out and win funding more creatively,
 which will be increasingly important due to the potential impact of Brexit on European funding, is
 reflected in awards from several other organisations. These include the Sussex Partnership NHS
 Trust, Southern Water, Medecins Sans Frontiers and Sussex Police, the Socio-Legal Studies
 Association and the Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness. CHUCL has received
 commissions from four universities (£192K in total).

 The development of our Criminology cluster has been reflected in significant grant success.
 Between 2017 and 2019 Seal was PI on the Leverhulme project Race, Racialisation and the
 Death Penalty (£118K). McDonnell and Wiedlitzka were Co-Is on an ESRC-funded project on
 the Criminal Cases Review Commission, 2019-2020 (£115K). In our health cluster, Lowton has
 been awarded funding by Medecins Sans Frontieres (£135K) to conduct a pragmatic clinical trial
 on TB treatment regimens (2017-2021). Will has been awarded a grant by Wellcome (£428K),
 on anti-microbial resistance and inequalities (2019-2022). In our theory cluster, Scott has been
 awarded a Leverhulme grant for her project ‘Narratives of Nothing: stories of the great undone’
 (2020-2024, £286K). In migration, Lewicki is the UK partner in the project ‘Reaching out to Close
 the Border: The Transnationalization of Anti-Immigration Movements in Europe’, led by the
 Peace Research Institute Oslo (2020-24, £117K).


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our leadership of and collaboration in major international projects has contributed to the
 achievement of our objectives around grant capture and international engagement. Many of
 these projects have generated resources which have endured post-completion. For instance,
 between 2015 and 2017 Delanty was co-PI for the Horizon 2020 project CulturalBase (£99K),
 with seven partners including the Central European University, the Robert Schuman Centre for
 Advanced Studies at the European University Institute and the Université de Paris 1 Panthéon-
 Sorbonne. The project’s output archive, which includes academic papers, reports and policy
 briefings, is at culturalbase.eu. Between 2016 and 2018, Phipps was Co-I for the Universities
 Supporting Victims of Sexual Violence project (£95K), funded through the European
 Commission Daphne III programme. The project brought together 24 universities and other
 organisations across six European countries. Its outputs, which include training models,
 academic papers, reports and multimedia, are at usvreact.eu.

 We have actively pursued our strategy of leveraging internal School and University funding. Four
 staff have received School funding to attend international conferences (£2191 in total), two to
 attend advanced research methods training (£670 in total), and eight to support research and
 impact activities (£8370 in total). The University’s ‘Sussex Research’ seed funding schemes
 introduced during this REF period have been particularly helpful (£14,355 in total). Phipps’
 project Universities Supporting Victims of Sexual Violence was developed partly as a result of a
 Research Opportunities Fund award (£1470). McDonnell won a Research Development Fund
 award (£11,339) for her project entitled ‘One year after the EU Referendum’ on experiences of
 Brexit, with Politics colleagues. Although the large ESRC bid produced from this project was
 unsuccessful, it generated several papers and a co-authored book by Emily Robinson and
 Jonathan Moss (An Emotional History of Brexit Britain).

 We have also benefited from the University’s ESRC impact acceleration account. Fincham was
 part of group led by colleagues in Social Work, which won £39,989 for a project co-producing a
 portfolio of outputs with sexual health charity Brook (goodsexproject.wordpress.com/). Lakhani
 and Phipps have also both won funding (£5,245 for Lakhani and £14,182 for Phipps) to facilitate
 their impact case studies. These case studies have also both emerged from funded research.
 Lakhani’s is based on work funded by the Home Office (£25K) on how terrorist groups share
 content online. Phipps’ is the result of a number of grants, beginning with a small award from the
 NUS and culminating in the pan-European Universities Supporting Victims of Sexual Violence
 project. It also draws on CHUCL’s commissioned research.

 Facilities

 The Department has excellent physical space and resources. In 2014, the School moved into a
 refurbished building with bespoke academic, administrative, and social space. This includes a
 staff common room and meeting room, PhD workspaces and social spaces, academic offices
 (single- or double-occupancy), and ‘hot-desks’ for researchers. There are also rooms which can
 be booked for research interviews and other activities. This well-equipped physical space
 promotes collaboration. Criminology colleagues have benefited particularly from physical
 proximity to Law, and CHUCL developed a fruitful relationship with the University’s EDI unit
 partly because for much of the REF period, the Deputy Pro Vice Chancellor for Equalities and
 Diversity was a Politics colleague (Professor Claire Annesley).

 The Keep, opposite the Falmer campus, is also important to the Department; the Mass
 Observation Archive (MOA), a collection of material about everyday life in Britain from 1937
 onwards, has been especially useful. McDonnell’s 2017 project on Brexit involved the
 commissioning of a MOA directive. In 2014 Seal conducted a project in Lewes Prison with
 colleagues from Education and English, selecting MOA materials to inform creative writing
 workshops with incarcerated men. This project was featured as a case study by the National
 Alliance for Arts in Criminal Justice, produced a co-authored journal article and informed Seal’s
 monograph Imaginative Criminology (listed in REF2). We also make good use of other
 University facilities. Colleagues working with the Sussex Humanities Lab benefit from their space
 for hosting meetings, academic events, performances and installations. Our PhD students are

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 co-located in Sussex’s Doctoral School and spend time in the Research Hive, the Library's
 designated area for researchers, open to all doctoral researchers and research staff. It provides
 private study areas, bookable meeting rooms and space for discussion and collaborative work.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 All our staff make significant contributions to the research base in Sociology, Criminology,
 Gender Studies and Health. We set agendas for critical scholarship by collaboratively editing
 international journals, peer reviewing papers and books, and providing expertise to grant-making
 bodies. The Department currently holds the editorship for Sociology of Health & Illness, with
 Lowton as joint editor-in-chief and Will, Fincham and Love on the editorial board along with
 Shadreck Mwale (previously a PhD student in the Department, now Senior Research Fellow at
 Brighton & Sussex Medical School). Morosanu and Lewicki are associate editors of the Journal
 of Ethnic and Migration Studies, also housed at Sussex. Delanty has been Chief Editor of the
 European Journal of Social Theory since 1998, and Wilson is Associate Editor of Surveillance
 and Society.

 We have held 18 editorial board memberships during this REF period and have peer-reviewed
 for 79 journals. We have reviewed proposals and manuscripts for 14 presses: University presses
 and others such as Polity, Sage and Routledge. We have reviewed proposals for 34 funders
 including UK and international research councils and other bodies, and hold positions with grant-
 making organisations. For example, Lowton was UK Deputy Chair of the Commissioning Panel
 for the UK Research and Innovation/National Natural Science Foundation of China call
 ‘Understanding and Addressing Health and Social Challenges for Ageing in the UK and China’.
 She is also a member of the ESRC peer review college. Will is an ESRC peer review college
 member and serves on the Social Sciences and Humanities board of the Netherlands
 Organisation for Scientific Research. Will and Phipps are peer review college members for the
 National Institutes for Health Research.

 Collaboration is key to our strategy, and we collaborate within 44 networks across the UK,
 Europe and further afield. 9 staff have played leading roles in such networks, or in some cases
 have founded them. Scott is founder of the Anglo-Nordic Network of Social Research, Fincham
 is co-founder of the International Cycling and Society Research Network, Mason-Bish is a
 founder member of the Disability Hate Crime Network, and Phipps was co-founder of the Safe
 Studies Network (now Universities Against Gender-Based Violence). Wilson is co-director and
 treasurer of the Surveillance Studies Network, Seal is secretary of the Historical Criminology
 Network, and Moran-Ellis and Lowton are both committee members for European Sociological
 Association networks (on the Sociology of Childhood and Health & Illness respectively). Many
 staff are British Sociological Association members, and some have had long-standing roles
 within it. For instance, Fincham was convenor of the Work, Employment and Economic Life
 group 2010-17, Will was on the committee of the Medical Sociology group 2007-12, and Scott
 was co-convenor of the Social Theory group 2017-2020.

 During this REF period, we have produced outputs with co-authors from 13 countries outside the
 UK. We have also raised the international profile of the Department through 175 invited talks and
 keynote speeches. These have included keynotes at academic conferences in the UK and
 abroad, showcasing our work and reflecting on key themes and challenges in our fields. We
 have also spoken at events targeted at policymakers, NGOs and the public. The variety and
 geographical spread of these events speaks to the diversity of our interests and the many
 audiences we engage with. Our practice of co-authorship and our speaking engagements have
 helped us pursue our strategy of developing strong collaborative relationships locally, nationally
 and internationally, and achieve our fourth objective of making positive contributions to policy,
 social and cultural agendas at different levels.

 Our high-profile keynotes have reached large audiences. For instance, Delanty gave a semi-
 plenary lecture on cosmopolitanism at the European Sociological Association conference in
 Prague (2015) to an audience of 300 scholars. The plenary speakers were Zygmunt Bauman

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Arlie Hochschild. Lewicki delivered a keynote at the International Colloquium ‘Islamophobia
 in Europe - Tackling an everyday challenge’, hosted by German NGO Minor Kontor and the
 German Federal Ministry for Families, Older People, Women and Youth, in Berlin in 2018. The
 talk was attended by representatives of the Ministry and Minor Kontor, policymakers, journalists,
 and academics (around 200 in attendance). Seal delivered a keynote on race and capital
 punishment at the 2019 three-day international Law, Literature and Psychoanalysis conference
 held at Sheffield University, which was attended by almost 100 academics and members of the
 public.

 As part of his ongoing collaboration with the Lego Foundation, Fincham gave a keynote entitled
 ‘How do we want children to have fun today?’ at the Lego-funded ‘Leg Er Ikke Kun for Sjov! (play
 is not just for fun!)’ conference in Copenhagen (2018), a major event on pedagogy for 200
 educational policymakers and practitioners. With Baroness Onora O’Neill, Sir Ian Kershaw and
 others, Delanty was an invited speaker at the 2016 British Academy event ‘European Union and
 Disunion’, which had a public audience of around 200 and produced an open-access edited
 book. In 2017, Wilson gave the keynote at the conference ‘Big Data: New Challenges for Law
 and Ethics’ at the Institute of Criminology in Ljubljana, Slovenia, which supported ongoing
 collaborations with colleagues at the Institute producing two edited books. Phipps delivered the
 keynote at the Sexual Harassment in Higher Education conference at Goldsmiths (2015), which
 led to the formation of the 1752 Group (the UK’s first lobby group on sexual harassment of
 students by staff). Phipps has collaborated closely with this group, including on a HEFCE
 Catalyst Fund project building on Universities Supporting Victims of Sexual Violence. She has
 also spoken alongside representatives of the 1752 group and Universities UK at various events
 including a 2017 panel at the London School of Economics and the launch of the Cambridge
 University initiative ‘Breaking the Silence’.

 We also collaborate and contribute to policy agendas through the engagement built into our
 research projects, in line with our Departmental strategy. For instance, Delanty’s CulturalBase
 project created a network of 66 stakeholders (representing organisations including the Réseau
 européen des Centres culturels de rencontre, the Africa e Mediterraneo Association and the
 Committee on Culture of United Cities and Local Governments) to guide European policy
 making on cultural heritage. Morosanu’s YMobility project involved stakeholders from the
 Romanian and Latvian Embassies, the National Youth Council of Ireland, the Institute of
 Directors, the Italian Ministry of Labour and the Home Office. Phipps’ Universities Supporting
 Victims of Sexual Violence project had 16 associate partners including the City of Turin and the
 Victimology Society of Serbia. Research has also been commissioned from the Department by
 Lewes Prison, Medecins Sans Frontiers, the Criminal Cases Review Commission, and four
 different universities with the express intention of shaping policy and practice.

 Also in keeping with our strategy, many staff (in addition to impact case study authors Lakhani
 and Phipps) have undertaken significant impact work. Building on a Leverhulme-funded
 research project, McDonnell and Scott developed lesson plans and an interactive game focused
 on helping teachers and pupils understand asexual identities. Fincham, with the cross-School
 Brook Learn project led by Social Work, created online modules in ‘Sexual Consent’ and ‘Sexual
 Pleasure’ (open access for secondary Schools in the UK and being developed for commercial
 availability). Wiedlitzka’s research led to changes in the Crown Prosecution Service guidance on
 racist and religious hate crime, after a paper she co-authored pointed out inconsistencies in this
 guidance.

 Our collaboration and contribution to the research base has been recognised in many different
 ways. Staff have been awarded 11 visiting fellowships and professorships during this REF
 period, including by the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (Will), the National
 University of Brasilia (Delanty), the University of Wuppertal and Pompeu Fabra University
 (Morosanu). We have celebrated five prizes: the Feminist and Women’s Studies Association
 book prize (Phipps, for The Politics of the Body), the Australian Sociological Association prize for
 the best article (Delanty for ‘The Prospects of Cosmopolitanism’), the Association of University
 Administrators essay competition (Telling) and the Sussex Impact Award (Lakhani and Phipps).

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our outputs have been translated into 17 languages. Taken together, our research,
 inter/disciplinary and societal contributions show that we are well on our way to achieving all our
 Departmental objectives, and provide an excellent base to move us forward as an
 interdisciplinary, collaborative, internationally engaged and socially impactful unit. We intend to
 use all the resources at our disposal to build on these strengths, support our staff, and continue
 to produce research of significance.




                                                                                             Page 13
