Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 9

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The University of Strathclyde was founded by natural philosopher John Anderson more than two
hundred years ago as “a place of useful learning” and is today a leading international technological
university. As a consequence, Physics is one of the institution’s most significant departments in
terms of research output. Physics Research is organised into four strategic divisions, all of which
address optical and electromagnetic science and technology in its broadest sense. These are
Nanoscience, Optics, Plasmas and the Institute of Photonics, with each division made up of two or
three research groups. The table below sets out the central research areas of each group, together
with the divisional academic staff FTEs and headcount. There is extensive collaboration between
groups and divisions and all groups have world-class research facilities housed in dedicated state-
of-the-art laboratories enabling a balance of theoretical and experimental research.

 Nanoscience Physics of Life Sciences (PoLS) focuses on using optical and computational
              methods to measure and understand the fundamental processes of life.
 12.8 FTE
 13 headcount
              Semiconductor Spectroscopy and Devices (SSD) combines studies of optical
              processes in advanced semiconductor materials and the realisation of practical
              optoelectronic devices.

 Optics          Computational Nonlinear and Quantum Optics (CNQO) uses theoretical,
                 analytical and computational techniques to investigate light and its interactions,
 17 FTE
                 quantum gases, many-body physics and nonlinear optical devices.
 17 headcount
                 Experimental Quantum Optics and Photonics (EQOP) explores the
                 fundamental interactions of single atoms and photons, through to spectroscopy
                 and quantum technologies.

 Plasmas         Atoms Beams and Plasmas (ABP) concentrates on topics in free electron
                 physics, accelerator science, plasma physics, atomic and molecular
 7.95 FTE
                 spectroscopy.
 9 headcount
                 Strathclyde Intense Laser Interaction Studies (SILIS) investigates radiation-
                 beam-plasma interactions at large field intensities, including the production of
                 high-energy particle beams and high brightness radiation pulses.

 Institute of    Advanced Lasers (AL) specialises in the physics and engineering of diode-
 Photonics       pumped solid-state and semiconductor lasers, taking novel laser concepts to a
                 systems-ready level.
 8.9 FTE
 9 headcount
                 Neurophotonics (NP) develops devices to interface with neural systems in
                 order to understand human neural processing.

                 Photonic Materials and Devices (PMD) fabricates and researches into gallium
                 nitride micro-LEDs and the use of these high-density arrays of micro-structured
                 light-emitters in instrumentation and scientific applications.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research and Impact Vision
Our vision for physics research at Strathclyde is one in which all researchers are enabled to deliver
world-leading discoveries, with a focus on optical and electromagnetic science and technology.
Realisation of this vision has moulded a Department whose activities span curiosity-driven research
that enhances our fundamental knowledge of the workings of the universe, through to application-
inspired research that makes a direct contribution to the UK economy via a range of knowledge
exchange and impact-related activities.

At an institutional level, the Department’s research aligns with four of the University’s strategic
research themes: Health and Wellbeing; Ocean, Air and Space; Measurement Science and Enabling
Technologies; and Energy (see Institutional Statement). Our research is central to many aspects of
these themes and four members of the Department lead University sub-themes. It is also central to
the University’s Quantum Technologies, Space and Health Tech research clusters, which are
associated with the Technology and Innovation Centre Zone.

Organisation of Research and Impact Strategy
Our research and impact strategy is led by a Research Director and a Knowledge Exchange (KE)
Director. The Research Director chairs the Departmental Research and Knowledge Exchange
Committee which meets regularly, including as members the KE Director, representatives from each
research division and the Head of Department. The committee develops and implements policy on
all research and KE matters, including appointments, funding, infrastructure and impact strategies.
It coordinates responses to initiatives both from within the University and from external agencies,
including UKRI’s Research Councils and Innovate UK, UK government departments, the Scottish
Government, European and other international funders, industry and other funding bodies. In this it
is supported by pan-University professional services departments, Research and Knowledge
Exchange Services (RKES) and Innovation and Industry Engagement Directorate (IIED). Decisions
and policies developed by the committee are communicated to the Science Faculty and University,
ensuring ongoing alignment with, and informing of, institutional research and KE strategies.

Research Strategy and Implementation
Building on the Department’s performance in REF2014, from 2014 the Department renewed its
programme portfolio to enhance the research base, making in the succeeding years substantial new
strategic investments in both people and place. This allowed us to refocus and refresh each of the
research divisions to tackle the challenges of future priorities through strategic recruitment initiatives,
including the Chancellor’s Fellowship Scheme and Global Talent Programme (section 2), and
support for both new and existing staff via improved infrastructure, such as new research labs in the
John Anderson Building and in the cross-disciplinary Technology and Innovation Centre (TIC)
(section 3). This was a continuation of a strategy that began significantly before 2014 and has
transformed the Department from one with research excellence in a number of areas to one where
all groups undertake research of the highest quality. This change in research culture has had a
transformative impact on existing staff and has helped attract appointees of the highest calibre to
the Department.

The Department has delivered on the investments in infrastructure and recruitment during this period
through increased competitively-won research funding, higher postgraduate research student (PGR)
numbers (sections 2 and 3) and growth in the number of high-quality research outputs, with more
than half the research outputs in the submission published in Science/Nature group journals or
Physical Review Letters.

Our approach has led to an agile research base able to respond to a wide range of external initiatives,
allowing the Department to take leading or significant roles in many discipline-specific and
interdisciplinary collaborations within the UK and overseas. These collaborations form a key

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
component of our on-going strategy to deliver research excellence. The following three are of
particular note:

   •   The Department was, in 2004, a founding member of the Scottish Universities Physics
       Alliance (SUPA), a strategic partnership in research and advanced training across eight
       Scottish universities. Physics staff are active across several of SUPA’s five cross-institutional
       research and impact themes (section 4) and contribute to training provided by the SUPA
       Graduate School, of which all PGRs are members (section 2).

   •   The Department has a key role in the University’s pan-institution strategic partnership with
       the National Physical Laboratory (NPL), a tripartite partnership also involving the University
       of Surrey established in 2015. Within Physics, this includes, to date, a co-funded and co-
       located joint appointment, an NPL Measurement Fellow (Rossi), and 24 studentships
       (including 4 NPL EPSRC iCASE) who are members of NPL’s cross-institutional Postgraduate
       Institute in Measurement Science (section 2).

   •   The Department has a major involvement in the National Quantum Technologies
       Programme, where the quality, reputation and broad scope of research in the Optics Division
       and the Institute of Photonics resulted in Strathclyde being the only institution with
       investigators directing research programmes in all four of the Quantum Technology Hubs, in
       both five-year phases of the Programme.

These, and the broader range of collaborations, are described further in section 4.

Impact Strategy and Implementation
The successful transfer of research knowledge from academia to industry and other societal
beneficiaries is reflected in Strathclyde’s founding ethos as ‘a place of useful learning’ and is a
fundamental objective of its mission. The Department’s strategy is aligned with the University’s
mission and has grown from a longstanding desire to see our research deliver real world benefits
through a culture that enables and encourages staff with ambitions to make that happen. Our
approach is to capitalise on both departmental and wider University expertise and investments to
maximise exploitation opportunities. Early focus on commercial spin-outs has broadened,
particularly during the current REF period, to encompass a wider range of impact opportunities,
including impact via existing companies (Diamond Photonics Impact Case Study), and engagement
with mechanisms to enhance the effectiveness of the technology pipeline between academic
research and commercial exploitation (Fraunhofer Impact Case).

The Department’s impact culture dates from academics’ 1977 founding of IBH Ltd to develop
fluorescence lifetime spectroscopy products, an example of ongoing collaboration and related impact
for over 40 years (Fluorescence Products Impact Case). Other spin-outs followed including:
    • Microlase (1992) to commercialise Ti-Sapphire laser research, which subsequently led to the
        founding of M Squared Lasers
    • Cascade Technologies (2003) to commercialise quantum cascade laser-based spectroscopy
        (Laser Spectroscopy Spin-out Impact Case)
    • mLED (2009) to enable commercial application of GaN micro-LED arrays.

Building on the success of these companies, each was subsequently bought by a larger international
organisation (respectively, HORIBA, Coherent, Emerson and Oculus, part of Facebook) with most
retaining substantial R&D and manufacturing facilities locally. Three of the companies have
contributed to Strathclyde academics (Birch, Dawson) or graduates (Nils Hempler of M Squared)
winning the Institute of Physics Dennis Gabor Medal for the application of physics to industry,
commerce or business during this REF period (section 4).

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Department’s research in GaN micro-LED arrays has had wide influence in the field, both
academic and commercial, with the sale of mLED to Oculus in 2016 the largest such financial
transaction the University had overseen. This area offers strong potential for future impact
underpinned by Strathclyde research, which we would expect to submit to a future REF.

The Department continues to create intellectual property based on its research, maintaining a
pipeline of current and future commercial impact. In the REF period, 36 invention disclosures have
been made, resulting in the filing of 19 new patents. A new spin-out, Neuro VLC, is in the process of
being launched. Two recent Innovation/Enterprise fellowship awards in the Institute of Photonics are
supporting efforts to identify additional commercial partners.

The Department’s strengths in application-inspired research and its impact track record were key
factors in attracting the UK’s first Fraunhofer Centre to the University and in the development of the
£89M TIC Technology and Innovation Centre (TIC) at Strathclyde, where several new Physics
research laboratories are housed. Established in 2012, the Fraunhofer Centre for Applied Photonics
(Fh-CAP) is an important intermediary organisation in the photonics and wider technology sectors,
creating impact by enabling partner companies to accelerate technology and product development
Fh-CAP maintains a close relationship with the Department, through Dawson’s role as its Director,
joint appointments and PGRs. This partnership is a significant differentiator in the Department’s
impact.

The Department has a prominent role in the second phase of TIC, a £150M project which is part of
the University’s wider contribution to the Glasgow City Innovation District (see institutional
statement). The Department is central to the Quantum Technology Cluster and contributes strongly
to the Health Technology and Space Technology clusters and their industry-facing research-based
technology transfer programmes.

In terms of organisation, the Physics KE Director represents the Department on the Faculty KE
Committee, influencing wider policy in this area. The Director is responsible for development and
coordination of KE and impact activities in line with University policies and provides local expertise
to enable prompt and appropriate responses to new initiatives. In order to facilitate impact and to
attract associated funding, the Department has made two appointments, a KE Associate and a
Professor of Industrial Practice (PIP), the latter a former Chief Technology Officer at major UK
technology company, QinetiQ. This was the first PIP appointment in the University. The Department
is also supported by a Commercial Business Development Manager to help capitalise fully upon
emerging opportunities and to support the growth of licence deals. These appointments quickly
delivered results, the KE Associate successfully supporting Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and
the PIP helping establish an industry-led EPSRC Prosperity Partnership involving the Department
and M Squared Lasers, which secured £2.2M funding to study Rydberg atom quantum computing.

The pipeline for future impact is supported through a broad portfolio of activity across the
Department, illustrating an embedded impact culture. This includes work in many research themes
emerging as industrially relevant, such as Quantum Technologies, Manufacturing, and Space,
underpinned by substantial EPSRC funding that has an innovation component (Quantum
Technology Hubs, Prosperity Partnerships and Manufacturing Programme Grants). We continue to
develop these themes, having already leveraged further support from the Industrial Strategy
Challenge Fund (ISCF) in four cases. In total, there were 16 Innovate UK awards to the Department
in the REF period (six of which were funded by the ISCF) with total funding of £3.7M (£2.4M of which
is from the ISCF). The Department currently holds six Innovate UK awards totalling just over £2M.
Since 2014 there have been more than 70 research and KE projects with industry worldwide,
involving more than 50 companies, supported by funding of approximately £3.61M from industry and


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
£2M from licensing, CPD and Consultancy. In the academic year 2019/20 alone, funding from
industry was nearly £410k.

Interdisciplinary Research
The Department has always had a significant focus on interdisciplinary research, particularly in the
Nanoscience Division, where researchers work at the interfaces with chemical and life sciences, and
the Institute of Photonics, which interfaces with engineering and life sciences. Such collaborations
are reflected in the output profile of the Department. Interdisciplinary research in facilitated greatly
by the University’s strategic research themes, all of which cross disciplines. As a consequence,
members of the Department lead joint projects with the Department of Pure and Applied Chemistry
and the Strathclyde Institute for Pharmaceutical and Biological Sciences (SIPBS) within the Science
Faculty and participate in multiple collaborations with the Engineering Faculty. Examples include in
novel imaging techniques that require complex signal processing and in the development of a
National Nuclear User Facility (NNUF) at the Scottish Centre for the Application of Plasma-based
Accelerators (SCAPA), which was commissioned to serve both as state-of-the-art Physics
infrastructure and to provide beams for applications.

Open Access and Research Integrity
The Department is fully-compliant with Open Access (OA) requirements, facilitated by the
University’s Open Access Service, which provides support, advice, advocacy and training on
research publishing using compliant Green and Gold OA routes, together with general advice on the
issues surrounding open scholarly communication. The Service also administers the Research
Councils UK (RCUK) Gold fund, provided by RCUK for the payment of Gold article processing
charges and the Charity Open Access Fund. The Open Access Service supplies advice on
compliance with the Green HEFCE policy on OA for REF2021, as well as other funder-specific OA
mandates. Within Physics, a senior academic has responsibility for OA compliance and liaison with
the central service. The main mechanism for OA compliance under the above scheme is the
depositing of articles on the University’s publicly-available institutional repository. These are linked
to publicly-available datasets where appropriate. Training on both OA and Research Data
Management is regularly provided within the Department and is an integral part of the induction for
any new member of staff in Physics. Every new PGR student must complete a research data
management plan which is held on the University’s central PGR management system.

Both the Department and the University are committed to the highest standards of research integrity
and the University Research Code of Practice fully supports the principles of the Universities UK
Concordat. As subscribers to the UK Research Integrity Office, the University delivers training and
support on research integrity, augmented by the Department during staff induction. Academic
policies and procedures within the University are designed to encourage research integrity and
examples include the Research Code of Practice, Policy and Code of Practice for Postgraduate
Research Study and the Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

2.1 Staff

In order to deliver and enhance our vision for internationally-leading research in optical and
electromagnetic science and technology, Physics at Strathclyde has grown significantly, from 27
FTE submitted to REF2014 to 46.65 FTE (headcount of 48) at 31 July 2020, an increase of 73%.
Alongside growth via recruitment, the Institute of Photonics became part of the Department in 2014
(staff submitted to UOA13 at REF2014). Academic staff are distributed across the four divisions as
follows (headcounts in brackets):
     • Nanoscience: 12.8 FTE (13)
     • Optics: 17 FTE (17)
     • Plasma: 7.95 FTE (9)
     • Institute of Photonics: 8.90 FTE (9).
Research staff are integral to the Department’s success; with 75 employed at 31 July 2020, including
Senior Fellows, Fellows, Associates and Assistants, compared with 66 in 2015.

Academic Employment Strategy
Our academic employment strategy is based around attracting talented researchers at all levels,
based on strategic cases made to the Science Faculty and University. The Department does not
look simply to replace vacated posts, but examines the newest, most exciting directions in the
relevant areas of physical science across the divisions and then seeks out exceptional individuals in
these areas. Prior to 2014, this strategy focussed on the appointment of new senior professorial staff
to fill research leadership roles, but since then the main focus has been on expanding the research
base by appointing talented junior academics with significant potential. On this basis the Department
has attracted 17 new academics since 2014 using the University’s Chancellor’s Fellowship and wider
Global Talent Programme. This has enabled each division to invigorate its research, not only to
include new areas but also to consolidate existing capabilities and enable linkages between areas
of existing strength.

The University’s Chancellor’s Fellowship Scheme, directed towards early career research leaders,
has enabled the Department to be especially successful in expanding an already strong research
base by the international recruitment of 15 junior academics across all divisions (Caspani, Cippiccia,
Gray, Griffin, Henrich, Herrnsdorf, Hurtado, Kirton, Massabuau, Patton, Piani, Pritchard, Rossi,
Tagliacozzo, van de Linde). This five-year development programme fast-tracks from young research
stars to mid-career skilled academics and nurtures the Department’s future leaders. The quality of
these new academics is underpinned by four having already been promoted to senior lecturer.
Furthermore, four have won prestigious external fellowships, two of which (Patton, Cameron) were
Royal Society University Research Fellowships (RSURF).

At a more senior level, the Department made a Readership appointment in Lagoudakis (from
Stanford) via the Global Talent Programme, who is setting up a new research stream of Experimental
Quantum Nanoscience as part of the Nanoscience Division. This was a very targeted recruitment in
an area identified as important not only for Nanoscience Division but also in terms of providing, along
with the appointment of Rossi as Chancellor’s Fellow, strong potential in an area bridging between
Nanoscience and Optics divisions.

Key to the attraction of the above researchers has been both investment in the physical research
infrastructure, via expansion of the John Anderson Building and the new laboratories in the TIC, and
the changed culture in the Department.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The inherent flexibility of our recruitment strategy facilitates joint appointments and exchanges with
industry and other bodies, and enables the appointment of staff who work at facilities outside the
Department for part of their duties. Examples include Rossi, a joint appointment with NPL; Caspani,
joint with Fh-CAP; Bingham, joint with the Central Laser Facility at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
(RAL); Sheng, a joint appointment with Shanghai Jiao Tong University; and Oi, Researcher in
Residence with the Satellite Applications Catapult at Harwell.

These new appointments, together with the incorporation of the Institute of Photonics into the
Department in 2014, have complemented the Physics research base, both by enhancing existing
activities and broadening its scope, and have contributed to the increase in submitted FTE to the
UoA. The Science Faculty’s strategic plan includes a further expansion of staff for Physics and the
Department will continue to appoint the highest quality researchers in the coming years.

In addition to the academic staff detailed above, as already discussed, the Department has
appointed two KE posts, a Professor of Industrial Practice and a KE Associate with a photonics
background. These colleagues have been instrumental in developing the significant external impact
of Physics research at Strathclyde.

Early Career Researcher Support and Staff Development
The internal culture of the Department is one that strives to enable all research-active staff to produce
research of the highest quality and to maximise the societal impact of their research. Senior staff
mentor junior academics to help nurture the best research ideas, advising on fellowship and research
grant applications, and research publication strategies. The Department operates an internal review
process for all local funding applications over £50k before final approval in order to maximise the
chances of success. Particularly helpful for ECRs, this is has resulted in an overall 38% success rate
for funding applications in the period 2014-2019.

The Department provides all new junior academics with a research support package, averaging
around £100k. This includes a guaranteed a PhD studentship once an appropriate project and
candidate are identified, and can also be used to fund, for example, a piece of lab equipment,
computational resources or conference travel. Their research time is protected through significantly
reduced teaching commitments. For example, a newly-appointed Chancellor’s Fellow will start by
typically working in tutorial classes or a laboratory for two years before gradually taking on more
responsibility, progressing to a full teaching load only towards the end of their 5-year fellowship
period, by which time their research should have become fully established.

As a research-led department, Physics has a large community of ECR RAs/Fellows (currently 75)
who make a vital contribution to the output and success of the Department. They are encouraged to
develop research independence within the framework of their particular research project. This is a
significant aspect of their career development, and more generally, is vital to the attractiveness of
Strathclyde as a research environment. Together with the training programmes described below and
local mentoring, the Department aims to provide and environment that allows research staff to
produce high quality research and to develop their career skills.

Departmental support and mentoring are complemented by a range of University development
programmes designed to support staff at all stages of research and academic careers. Part of the
University’s Researcher Development Strategy and Plan, the Researcher Development Programme
(RDP) is comprehensive set of discipline-specific and generic skills courses which forms part of the
University’s approach to implementing the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. The programme is primarily for ECRs, both RAs and junior academics, and PGRs, but
the flexible programme includes courses suitable for staff at all levels, including senior research
leaders. All new early career academics undertake the Strathclyde Programme for Academic

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Practice, Researcher development, and Knowledge exchange (SPARK). The Strathclyde
Programme in Research and Leadership (SPIRAL) aims to develop and strengthen leadership skills
across research and KE.

The positive impact of the Physics’ strategy for staff development is demonstrated by continued
growth in research awards (section 3), high quality outputs and international interactions (section 4).

Staff Management, Support and Promotion
All staff participate in the University’s annual Accountability and Development Review (ADR)
process. The ADR meeting enables discussion of the previous year’s activities and future objectives
for research, impact and other aspects of academic development. Outside the formal ADR process,
customised management and development support is available for staff at all career stages. This
may include informal quarterly or six-monthly discussions as appropriate.

ADR also informs the biannual academic promotion cycle. Sustained achievement in terms of the
volume and quality of research outputs, and in obtaining significant research or KE funding are
regularly recognised by promotion. A similar set of criteria apply at each level, but with increased
expectations at higher levels. Professors are grouped into four zones and progression to the next
zone is achieved by a sustained increase in the level of performance. Promotion cases are reviewed
internally by the Professorial Advisory Group, which convenes specifically to advise the Head of
Department on the promotion-readiness of all staff and to review applications that could be forwarded
for consideration by Faculty and University promotion panels. Since 2014, there have been 20
academic promotions involving 18 academic staff, including 6 to Reader, 4 to Professor, and 5
Professors promoted through rezoning. In addition, a vibrant research staff community has seen
promotions to Senior and Principal Research Fellow. There are also internal mechanisms to allow
career flexibility by transferring between job families, for example from research to teaching and vice
versa. Significant contributions by staff at all levels can also be rewarded by salary increases.

Procedures for Exchanges and External Links
The Department strongly encourages exchanges with a wide range of industry and other bodies,
facilitated via University-wide and external mechanisms. The University initiative “Engage with
Strathclyde” provides a framework for initial contacts between academics and external organisations
to develop partnerships. The Department has many such partnerships with e.g. Fraunhofer-CAP
(Fh-CAP), the Cockcroft Institute, the International Max Planck Partnership (IMPP) and NPL. There
are several joint studentships with NPL and one ECR is based there. The Department also has
researchers based at RAL and at Culham. Links with partners are often facilitated by competitively
won funding and the team at RKES typically assists with this process. There are also University
resources that can be used such as the Impact Acceleration Account, specifically for projects more
associated with research impact and KE.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.2 Postgraduate Research Training and Supervision

Recruitment
The number of enrolled PGRs is
one of the University’s Key
Performance       Indicators.    The
Physics       Department          has
increased the number almost year
on year since 2000. Recruitment
events are held in the Department
every year and, coupled with an
increase in PGR funding from
various external sources, the PGR
population has grown. As shown in
the chart, right, 2019/20 enrolled
PGRs numbered 163 (151 PhD, 9
EngD, 3 MPhil), up from 118 in
2014/15, an increase of 38%. We
expect this level of growth to continue in line with new academic appointments until the Department
reaches around 200 PGRs within a few years.
We successfully work with University central administration on the recruitment of PGR students. A
Departmental administrator coordinates local procedures under the guidance of the Postgraduate
Tutor, who has overall responsibility for offers of student support. Applicants apply for advertised
projects linked to particular supervisors and the Department engages promptly with applicants to
explore their interest in joining the Department.

Studentships
Studentships are funded via a variety of mechanisms. The University provides partial support from
funding allocated to Strathclyde by EPSRC and other UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) agencies
(totalling £630K for 2019/2020). The Science Faculty usually also provides partial support, matching
that from the supervisor or Department. The remainder of the funding comes from a variety of
sources, external companies or other bodies, and from departmental or research group funds.
Different funding mechanisms result in varying funding periods for PGRs from 36 to 48 months, with
42 months typical in Physics.
Many studentships are associated with a range of Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and
equivalent groupings, both national centres and local equivalents established by the University, and
with the Quantum Technology Hubs, each of which provide studentship funding. During the REF
period, this includes:
•   As a partner in RCUK CDT programmes (hosts in brackets)
    o 2013 round: Applied Photonics (Heriot-Watt); Diamond Science & Technology (Warwick);
       EPSRC/MRC CDT in Optical Medical Imaging (OPTIMA) (Edinburgh/ Strathclyde)
    o 2018 round: Industry-Inspired Photonic Imaging, Sensing and Analysis (Heriot-Watt)
•   As the leader of an EPSRC CDT-Lite on Application of Next Generation Accelerators
•   Recognising its strength in the area, as the initiator of a new Scottish Graduate School in
    Quantum Technologies in 2019 (jointly with Heriot-Watt and Glasgow Universities), which
    received significant financial support from companies and organisations including M Squared
    Lasers, AWE and NPL
•   As the leader of local Strathclyde CDTs in laser-driven plasma and fusion science; plasma-based
    particle and light sources; and industrial quantum technologies

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   As a partner in the NPL Postgraduate Institute for Measurement Science.
In addition, in 2019, Physics obtained six studentships from the Defence Science and Technology
Laboratory (DSTL). Students enrolled on CDT and equivalent programmes benefit from specially
designed taught material which broadens their training experience.

PGR Monitoring, Support and Progress
The Department monitors and supports PGRs in line with the University’s Policy and Code of
Practice for Postgraduate Research. Specifically, PGRs have two research supervisors, nominally a
first and second supervisor, although the extent to which both are involved in the day-to-day research
varies. PGRs may also choose another academic as Counsellor, to provide independent advice if
required.

A PGR student’s progress is monitored via 3-monthly reports throughout their studies. At the end of
their first year, PGRs submit a report/literature review of their area of research, together with any
initial research results. They present their work orally at the Department’s annual postgraduate
conference, followed by an hour-long end-of-year viva with their supervisors, chaired by an
independent senior academic, at which progress is assessed. Recommendations are made based
on the outcome of this process and, if all is satisfactory, the student continues to second year. At the
end of second year, students present their research via a poster and also submit a thesis plan and
a research paper, either in draft or published form. The end-of-year viva focuses on the thesis plan
and the timeline to ensure that the student completes their research and writes the thesis within their
funding period. The PhD process concludes with the final viva examination, conducted by External
and Internal Examiners, both of whom write reports on both the thesis and the examination and make
a recommendation on the award. The examination committee is chaired by an independent
convener.

Training and Skills Development
All PGR students are enrolled in the Strathclyde Doctoral School (see institutional statement) and
attend courses offered by the University Researcher Development Programme (section 2.1), by the
SUPA Graduate School and by the Department, as well as CDT or equivalent training as appropriate.
This provides comprehensive training enabling our PGRs to master the competencies necessary for
both academic research and future technical leadership in industry or elsewhere. PGRs attend
training across four categories, obtaining a postgraduate certificate in the process.

SUPA, as the largest Physics graduate school in the UK, offers over 60 advanced technical courses
(over 800 hours of lectures) for physics PGR students and RAs across Scotland, as well as
professional development training tailored to a physics background. Courses, accessing the
knowledge and skills of world leading researchers drawn from across the partner universities are
mostly delivered by live video links using SUPA's e-learning portal with dedicated state-of-the-art
video classrooms. There are also tutorials, lab classes, workshops, careers workshops and
international summer schools. Each SUPA PGR student must take at least 40 contact hours of
Advanced Physics courses (with formal assessment) and 20 hours of Professional Development
(skills) courses in their first two years. The SUPA Graduate School has grown substantially over the
REF period from 90 graduations to 149 in 2019/20. In 2019/20 Strathclyde hosted 163/849 (19%) of
SUPA's student population, and 23 staff have provided teaching on around 10 courses per annum.

Within the Department, students design and complete their own Data Management Plan and are
trained in Cybersecurity. They also attend regular Departmental Colloquia and more specialised
Research Division talks given by invited external speakers.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3 Staff and Postgraduate Student Wellbeing
The following policies and procedures ensure that an ambitious research culture prospers in Physics
at Strathclyde, that staff at all levels thrive in their careers and that the Department remains one of
the most attractive environments for physics research in the UK.

Equality and Diversity
The University implements a range of equality and diversity policies and associated procedures (see
institutional statement), with all protected characteristics covered in line with the Equalities Act 2010.
The Physics Department values diversity and is committed to achieving and promoting equality of
opportunity in its teaching, research and working environments. We ensure these environments
support positive relations between people and instil a culture of respect. The Department’s reputation
for excellence in teaching, research and KE is enhanced by a collegiate, inclusive environment in
which staff and students are supported to achieve their full potential. The University has extensive
policies on flexible working including the recently lunched Agile Working Toolkit, in particular to
support families, carers, and people with disabilities or those working in other challenging personal
environments. Staff make use of many of these policies, including both permanent part-time working
and flexible reduced hours arrangements, to support work-life balance either on an on-going basis
or short-term to meet specific family commitments.

The Department has held an Athena SWAN Bronze Award since 2013 (renewed 2019). In 2019, the
Department introduced a new action plan to increase the diversity of its workforce and advance
equality across recruitment, promotion and career progression. It strengthened the role of the
Equality and Diversity Committee, chaired by the Head of Department, and added two new support
groups whose members include undergraduate and postgraduate students and staff from all
categories and levels in the Department: the Women in Strathclyde Physics Association (WiSPA)
and the Equality, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion group (EDEI). Leadership in this important area has
been fostered by senior members of the Department attending the University’s unconscious bias
course. The John Anderson Building, the Department’s main base, has ‘parent and baby’ spaces
used by staff and students, as well as spaces devoted to those with particular protected
characteristics.

Health and Wellbeing
The Department recognises its duty of care to all staff and postgraduate students. The Head of
Department has overall responsibility for Health and Safety, with regulatory compliance and best
practice overseen by the Department’s Health and Safety Convener. Staff wellbeing more generally
comes under the auspices of Occupational Health, Safety and Wellbeing, and is facilitated by
ancillary services such as the University’s new Centre for Sport and Recreation.

Applications for leave are managed on a case-by-case basis by the Head of Department in line with
University Policies and Procedures set out by the University’s Human Resources Department,
keeping in mind the potential benefits to the Department and employee and the requirements of the
Department. Applications for long term study leave are normally underpinned by a funded sabbatical,
or are granted after a period of service in a senior Departmental management/administrative role.
University policies are adhered to concerning leave of absence for staff suffering from ill-health or
for those with caring responsibilities. Since 2016, 27 staff in Physics have benefitted from flexible
working or periods of temporary leave.

Part-time staff have the same rights and expectations as their full-time colleagues and assessment
of their contributions and development needs are considered equally, but with expectation reduced
pro-rata. This also applies to fixed-term staff, who can progress to an open contract after four years
of continuous service. Eight of our staff have made this transition during the REF period.



                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Income
Strathclyde is typically in the top 10 of EPSRC’s most highly funded physics departments and has
significant research funding profiles with other government and industrial bodies. The Department’s
2019/20 income of £9.5M comprises 50% of Science Faculty funding (for 25% of the academic staff)
and more than 10% of the University portfolio as a whole. Annual research income has increased
from £6M in 2013-14 to around £10M and is the highest per academic FTE in the University. This
excludes Research Council in-kind income which totalled £4.65M over the REF period. This increase
is set to continue with an award total in 2019/20 of £16M. Each of our research divisions has attracted
extensive funding in the REF2021 period.




The Department is unique within the University in having a funding portfolio at five of the UK
Research Councils, complemented by other government and charitable bodies. Funders include
EPSRC, the National Environmental Research Council (NERC), the Science and Technology
Facilities Council (STFC), Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), the
Medical Research Council (MRC), Innovate UK, the UK Space Agency (UKSA), the Scottish Funding
Council (SFC), the EU, The Royal Society, the Leverhulme Trust and the Carnegie Trust. Both the
breadth and size of the portfolio have been accomplished via a clear funding strategy, based on
senior members of the Department taking a leading role or being involved in large consortium grants,
and holding platform and programme grants at the major funding bodies. This has led to a diversified
funding portfolio that provides sustainability and resilience in the Department’s research and KE
funding.

In the first round of funding for the National Quantum Technologies Programme, Strathclyde was the
only institution included as a partner in all four Quantum Technology (QT) Hubs – a consequence of
the University’s significant investment in Physics over many years in a broad spectrum of optical-
based quantum science and technology. The Department is also a participant in all four Hubs in the


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
second round. This investment in the University’s QT portfolio is entirely in Physics, involves three
of our four divisions, and supports research that underpins both current and future impact.

3.2 Infrastructure Overview
During the REF period, the Department’s success in winning research funding alongside the
University’s commitment to large, sustained investments in infrastructure in support of its
commitment to its overarching research themes, has enabled the Department to create a set of well-
founded laboratories in each division to support internationally-leading research and the generation
of a high impact KE portfolio.

The Department is mainly housed in the John Anderson Building, which has undergone major
refurbishment in the last decade. The University spent £12M on building a new wing to house
research laboratories for Experimental Quantum Optics and Photonics (EQOP) and for the unique
Scottish Centre for the Application of Plasma-Based Accelerators (SCAPA). Together with other
laboratory refurbishments for new members of academic staff, the University has spent an additional
£6.5M on the upgrade and maintenance of the John Anderson Building.

The £89M Technology and Innovation Centre (TIC), opened in 2015, houses modern labs for the
Atoms Beams and Plasmas (ABP) group and the electron microscope facilities operated by the
Semiconductor Spectroscopy and Devices (SSD) group. TIC also serves as the base for the Institute
of Photonics, whose facilities include 12 photonics labs and a clean room microfabrication facility,
totalling over 1000m2. Support for Physics activities will be maintained as the University continues
to expand into two new buildings similar to TIC, a £150M project with six research clusters, one of
which is Quantum Technology. Other unique Strathclyde facilities include our quantum gas
microscope and the high-resolution optical microscopy labs. Furthermore, the Department is one of
the biggest users of high-power laser facilities at the national Central Laser Facility and also uses
the Diamond Light Source Synchrotron and the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source, all located at RAL,
the CLARA accelerator facility at the Daresbury laboratory and a number of international laser,
accelerator and other research facilities.

The Department has access to shared University facilities such as ARCHIE-WeSt, a regional
supercomputing centre for the West of Scotland set up in 2012, which supports both research
excellence and economic growth. The main computer was upgraded in 2018, with EPSRC core
equipment funding of £858k, and comprises more than 2500 INTEL Skylake 6138 cores for
distributed parallel computing, two 3TB RAM large memory nodes and 210TB of high performance
GPFS storage. Several of the Department’s research groups make extensive use of this £2.4M
facility. Other cross-divisional facilities include the Centre for Space Science Applications, which
brings together a diverse set of researchers in Nanoscience, Plasmas and Optics to work on a broad
range of physics-based problems including ocean colour remote sensing, rocket propulsion, space
radiation hardness testing and space-based quantum technologies.

Technical support staff, comprising a pool of 17 specialist mechanical and electrical technicians,
coordinated by two technical managers, make a vital contribution to the Department’s research.
Some technicians are attached to specific research groups while others are deployed across the
Department. There are 12 local professional services staff, including project managers and
administrators, a high-performance computing manager, a team of local IT staff, and an overall
departmental manager who supports both teaching and research.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

3.3 Divisional Research Funding and Facilities
The investments described enable the Department’s research groups to develop and maintain well-
staffed and funded state-of-the-art research laboratories. These are outlined below, together with
description of division-specific research funding.

Nanoscience
The Department has traditionally had a strong research base in the interdisciplinary area of
nanoscience, and this has grown considerably over the review period. Facilities include: four
scanning electron microscopes for analysis of hard and soft matter; the Centre for Nanometrology
established in 2005 by the Physics and Chemistry Departments; and the Mesolens Lab, a high-
resolution optical microscopy facility. Also, a suite of laboratories for high-resolution optical
microscopy has been created to grow research aligned to the University’s strategic themes of
Measurement Science & Enabling Technologies and Health & Wellbeing. The consolidation of our
internationally-leading optical microscopic imaging equipment from several laboratories has already
created new collaboration opportunities and helped to attract several new internationally leading
researchers to the Department (Patton, van de Linde, Massabuau).

The division currently holds in excess of £10M in research grants funded by EPSRC, NERC, BBSRC,
MRC, SFC, the EU, The Royal Society and the Leverhulme Trust. In the Physics of Life Sciences
(PoLS) group, Chancellor’s Fellow van de Linde joined in 2016, securing research funding from the
Academy of Medical Sciences and Wellcome Trust to underpin work in super-resolution microscopy,
a new income stream to the Department. Patton, also appointed in 2016, brought a Royal Society
URF to set up a lab on super-resolution microscopy and adaptive optics with nanodiamonds. Funding
from the MRC and BBSRC (£1.53M, £150k) allowed McConnell’s laboratories to devise, produce
and apply the mesolens, which can image the internal details of every cell in a 100 mm3 sample.

The SSD group has expanded considerably in the REF period, holding a research funding portfolio
in excess of £3M. Staff have been Co-Is in two EPSRC Programme Grants (with Strathclyde partners
including the Institute of Photonics and Chemistry), a Platform grant (also with the Institute of
Photonics), and have led a £2.7M Strategic Equipment grant, that funded nanoscale analysis
equipment, in collaboration with Chemistry and the Centre for Continuous Manufacturing and
Crystallisation. Hourahine leads an EPSRC-funded programme (£846k) on the characterisation of
advanced materials using electron channelling contrast imaging. Lagoudakis, recruited in 2018 from
Stanford, is leading work to develop hybrid quantum technologies. Rossi, recruited to a Chancellor’s
Fellowship in 2019 as a joint appointment with NPL, is developing a research programme in quantum
metrology. Both Lagoudakis and Rossi have set up new laboratories with initial University funding
and will strengthen interdisciplinary research activity with the Optics Division.

Optics
The Department is a leading centre in quantum optics and quantum technologies, represented by
both the CNQO (theory) and EQOP (experiment) groups, with 22 researchers working in quantum
technology. Division members are currently investigators in all four of the QT Hubs of Phase II of the
UK National Programme [QuantIC (Jeffers), QComm (Oi), NQIT (Daley, Kuhr) and Sensors and
Metrology (Riis, Griffin, Arnold)]. The total quantum technology funding portfolio of the Department
since the start of the QT Hubs Phase I in December 2014 is in excess of £25M, most of this being
in Optics. Highlights include Pritchard, who won an EPSRC Quantum Technology Fellowship to
develop hybrid quantum technologies exploiting Rydberg atoms coupled to superconducting circuits,
and whose laboratories have now begun producing world leading outputs. Pritchard also led a
successful EPSRC Prosperity Partnership bid in this area (£4.4M) together with M Squared Lasers.
Other successes by more junior researchers include Cameron, working as a theorist on the
interaction of chiral molecules with light exhibiting orbital angular momentum, who won a Royal


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Society URF from October 2019 (£620k). Large Strathclyde-led collaborative grants secured during
the review period include the EPSRC Programme Grant “DesOEQ” (Daley, £5.8M total, with £2.7M
for Strathclyde), the H2020 ETN “ColOpt” project (Ackemann, €3.9M total, £802k for Strathclyde)
and the “CMSIN-II” project to develop a satellite-based multispectral imager, funded by the UKSA
Centre for Earth Observation Instrumentation (Oi, £899k). In 2019, the Department won six four-year
quantum technology studentships from the DSTL, five of these in the Optics Division (£750k).

Both research groups have excellent facilities commensurate with their funding success. EQOP
laboratories are housed in the new wing of the John Anderson Building, with several laboratories
dedicated to quantum gases, such as that for the quantum gas microscope and others for cold atoms,
atomic magnetometry and timing, Rydberg atoms and imaging. The CNQO theory group has a
dedicated suite of offices surrounding a group hub for students and RAs, consisting of local
discussion rooms, with a computer facility housing its own fast servers and terminals.

Plasmas
The Strathclyde Intense Laser Interaction Studies (SILIS) group commissioned the SCAPA facility
during the REF period. Directed by Jaroszynski, this is a flagship SUPA II project, jointly funded by
the Scottish Funding Council, the University and EPSRC. The group has an internationally-leading
track record in the development of laser-driven radiation sources, with part of SCAPA’s purpose to
develop these potentially transformative sources for wide-ranging applications. SCAPA’s newly
constructed, state-of-the-art suite of laboratories and facilities include 350TW and 40TW lasers, and
the first electron beam was generated in 2019. An EPSRC Strategic Equipment grant (£1.7M; PI:
McKenna) was secured in 2017 to establish three beamlines at SCAPA and funding was committed
via our partnership in the Cockcroft Institute to purchase a kHz laser. Hidding also secured an ERC
Consolidator grant (€2M) for a project to develop next-generation plasma-based electron beam
sources. Other significant new grants secured during the review period include: responsive-mode
EPSRC grants: Lab in a Bubble (PI: Jaroszynski; £4.4M); Relativistically Transparent Plasmas (PI:
McKenna; £1.1M) and an STFC grant on Wakefield acceleration (PI: Hidding; £600k); EPSRC/BEIS
funding for Plasma Accelerators for Nuclear Applications and Materials Analysis (PANAMA) a
National Nuclear User Facility based at SCAPA (£3.2M; led by Civil and Environmental Engineering
with Physics Co-Is: Jaroszynski and McKenna). The group also secured substantial indirect funding
via access time on national and international, laser and accelerator research facilities.

The ABP group transferred their research laboratories to the TIC building during the review period.
Significant EPSRC grant funding was secured for research into multi-wave interactions in plasmas
(Ronald; £762k), high power THz radiation (Cross; £361k), and tokamak plasma science via a
Programme Grant led by the University of York (Co-Is: Ronald and Phelps). Other significant grants
include a US Air Force Office for Scientific Research programme linking dispersive pulse
compressors with fast wave amplifiers (Ronald, $625k). The group also secured significant KE
funding, including €450k from ESA (Ronald). They have also contributed significantly to the
international STFC Muon Ionisation Cooling Experiment (MICE) that demonstrated in 2020 a key
technique required for future lepton accelerators and neutrino factories. The group also have multiple
research interests relevant to magnetically confined plasma environments, including development
and maintenance of the ADAS atomic database, used at fusion facilities worldwide.

In April 2017, the University became a full member of the Cockcroft Institute of Accelerator Science
and Technology (a research pooling partnership between the Universities of Lancaster, Liverpool,
Manchester, Strathclyde and STFC). Academics within both groups and one from CNQO are now
members of the Cockcroft Institute and were co-investigators on a Cockcroft STFC grant running
during the REF period (£10.7M total, £1.5M to Strathclyde).




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institute of Photonics
The Institute of Photonics research activities are strategically focused to ensure academic excellence
is combined with strong industrial engagement. Its key objective is to bridge the gap between
academic research and industrial applications and development in photonics. An impact-related
highlight from the REF period was the 2017 sale of spin-out company mLED Ltd. to Oculus, part of
Facebook. Members of the Institute helped form the Fraunhofer Centre for Applied Photonics (Fh-
CAP), led by Dawson and also based in the TIC building (see impact case). The Institute has a
principal investigator cohort of 9.6 FTE with and total of 60 staff and PGR students. Based in the TIC
building, its facilities include twelve photonics labs and in-house semiconductor microfabrication
facilities within a 500m2 cleanroom suite.

The Institute currently holds around 20 competitively-won research grants totalling £10.4M, including
a significant portion of the Department’s Quantum Technology portfolio (Dawson, Strain, Hastie).
Notably, in 2019 Mathieson was awarded a prestigious Royal Academy of Engineering Research
(RAEng) Chair in Emerging Technologies to work on neural interfaces for the understanding and
treatment of neurodegenerative conditions (£2.69M, 2019-2029). Recently, Laurand was awarded a
5-year Leverhulme Trust Research Leadership award (£840k) to work on self-assembled optically-
active resonators. Hastie was local PI on the Phase I QT Hub in Sensors and Metrology (£3.98M).
In 2014 Kemp was awarded a Fraunhofer UK / RAEng Research Chair in Laser Engineering (£200k)
and in 2016 was awarded £730k by EPSRC to investigate applications of Fibre-Laser Pumped
Diamond Raman Laser applications. Dawson was awarded £1.43M in 2018 to investigate transfer-
printing for heterogeneous integration in manufacturing.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Collaboration
Physics, as with all sciences, functions best via sustained cross-seeding of ideas between
researchers. Strathclyde Physics is no different in this regard, but what is noteworthy is the breadth
of its collaborations. These are on multiple scales: locally within the city of Glasgow; in Scotland via,
for example, the Scottish Universities Physics Alliance (SUPA) and other SFC research pooling
initiatives; across the UK via large national collaborations such as the Cockcroft Institute; and
internationally via EU projects and the International Max Planck Partnership (IMPP). The University
actively supports staff involvement in such collaborations, and along with Faculty and Department,
provides financial support via a variety of mechanisms, such as allocation of studentships or
leveraged funding deployed from central or local strategic resources. Further, the University has
around 35 Partner Universities around the world; academics from Physics have been funded by the
University to visit many of these partners, for example the University of Waterloo in Canada and
Nanyang University in Singapore, to explore research linkages, in particular via setting up joint PGR
studentships.

The University has provided support for the pan-Scotland SUPA collaboration which, under the
SUPA-II agreement with SFC, the university partners provide one third of the funding for the initiative.
With Strathclyde the largest beneficiary of SUPA-II funding (£12M out of a £48M total), it was also
the largest academic contributor of funds to the collaboration. Staff are active in theme leadership
roles within SUPA including: Physics & Life Sciences (McConnell), Nuclear & Plasma Physics
(Jaroszynski, until 2018), Photonics (Hastie) and Energy (McKenna, until 2018).

The Department participates in several other research pooling initiatives including the Scottish
Universities Life Sciences Alliance (SULSA) and the Marine Alliance for Science and Technology for
Scotland (MASTS) which is supported at University level via the institutional Ocean Air and Space
research theme. MASTS also links to other University initiatives such as the Marine Enterprise

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Innovation and Research studentships, for which the University matches any company financial
contribution.

As part of our strategic partnership with NPL, jointly with the University of Surrey, the University has
contributed during the REF period to 24 studentships in Physics in the joint Postgraduate Institute
for Measurement Science, as well as to the funding of a joint appointment via a Chancellor’s
Fellowship (Rossi). Collaborations between Strathclyde, Surrey and NPL combine the three
institutions’ complementary academic strengths in precision measurement, which contributes to the
Strathclyde research theme in Measurement Science and Enabling Technologies.

The University, Science Faculty and Physics Department have an intrinsically positive culture
towards engaging with outside initiatives. The most visible example of this is the response to the UK
quantum technology initiative. Strathclyde has for many years had a highly respected but deliberately
diverse portfolio in quantum optics and atomic physics research which precluded it from bidding to
lead a Quantum Technology hub devoted to a single topic. However, the portfolio was recognised
internally and externally as a strength and so Strathclyde Physics researchers were investigators in
many of the original Hub proposals and were members of all of the successful bids. The University
has ensured that the Department makes pivotal contributions to the QT Hubs by providing financial
support (extra RA salary and equipment purchase), studentships (7) and other contributions for the
whole programme.

The IMPP in Measurement and Observation at the Quantum Limit was the first partnership of its kind
entered into by the Max Planck Society. Strathclyde was a founding member, together with four other
Scottish institutions and five Max Planck Institutes in Germany. It began in December 2013, securing
initial funding of £10M over 5 years, with the aim of fostering new scientific collaborations at the
highest level in quantum technology, specifically in gravity-wave interferometry, quantum optics and
quantum information.

SU2P is an innovative Strathclyde-led initiative, a partnership between the photonics groupings of
five Scottish universities and Stanford University in California, USA. SU2P sponsors fellowships,
projects, staff and student exchanges, workshops and an annual symposium. Notable benefits and
successes include the recruitment of Mathieson, who before appointment and subsequent promotion
was an SU2P Fellow at Stanford. Several UK-based photonics companies are partners in SU2P
(e.g. Coherent, M Squared, Optos and Kaiam).

Members of both the Plasmas and Optics divisions worked collaboratively with the Cockcroft Institute
while the University was an associate member. The success of Strathclyde’s contributions and the
international reputation of the Physics Department in the field led to the University becoming a full
member in 2016. This allowed the Plasma division to help drive the Institute’s laser-plasma
accelerator science and technology research, keeping the UK at the forefront of the development of
future tools for physics, the broader scientific community and society. Furthermore, academics and
researchers from Plasmas are members of the laboratory for Laser and Beam-driven Plasma
Acceleration at the Deutsche Elektronen-Synchrotron Hamburg (DESY) and participate in projects
at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC). Division members are also contributing to several
pan-European projects such as the large Extreme Light Infrastructure (ELI) project which aims to
perform science at ultrahigh laser intensities, and the EU COST network on Inertial Fusion Science.
The Department is a member of the LaserLab-Europe consortium and is part of the Muon Ionisation
Cooling Experiment collaboration. It is also a partner in the multinational International Thermonuclear
Experimental Reactor (ITER) Fusion project, via the Department developing and hosting the Atomic
Data and Analysis Structure (ADAS) codes used by the project for its detailed modelling.




                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Members of the Nanoscience division and the Institute of Photonics are active in the UK Nitrides
Consortium (chaired by Martin since late 2017) the UK research community on group III-nitride
semiconductors, which has around 200 UK and Irish academic and industrial members. The PoLS
group’s research in fluorescence lifetime imaging has underpinned impact in a wide range of
pharmaceutical and biomedical research applications worldwide via commercial exploitation by
HORIBA (Fluorescence Products ICS). This resulted in the company being awarded an Institute of
Physics Business Innovation Award in 2019. This same award was won by M Squared Lasers in
2017, established by the founders of Microlase, which contributed to one of our impact cases in
REF2014. M Squared Lasers still works closely with the Department, for example in the previously
mentioned Prosperity Partnership and in the International Doctoral School in Quantum Technology.
In another part of the Nanoscience division, the Mesolab is currently transforming bioimaging for
medical research, interacting with biomedical scientists and providing them with access to this
transformative next-generation imaging technique.

All of these examples clearly demonstrate that membership of such collaborations helps to drive our
research. In turn, our own researchers provide innovation and direction to the collaborations.

4.2 Societal contribution and outreach
The Department’s societal contribution spans economic activity and wealth creation via the impact
built on our underpinning research (see impact strategy and case studies), the provision of skilled
staff for a wide range of employers and a variety of outreach activities engaging with young people
and the general public.

In photonics and quantum technology in particular, Strathclyde provides an underpinning set of
researchers, trained PhDs and undergraduates for employers locally in the central belt of Scotland,
an important centre for the photonics industry, and in the UK and beyond. Alongside the user-
informed research of the Institute of Photonics, this was an important driver behind the decision to
locate the first UK Fraunhofer centre, Fh-CAP, in the TIC building at Strathclyde. Established with
financial support from Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, the Scottish Government, Scottish Funding Council,
Scottish Enterprise and the University, Fh-CAP focusses on commercial applied research, with its
Director and some other staff joint appointments with the Institute. The centre is an important
intermediary organisation in the technology sector, enabling its partner companies to accelerate
technology and product development, with associated business strategy and economic benefits.

The Department has an Outreach Coordinator and undertakes a range of outreach activities in local
schools, as well as hosting public lectures which included a 2017 lecture by Nobel Laureate, Bill Phill
ips. The David Elder Lecture series, which we have run in partnership with Glasgow Science Centre
since 2015, provides talks by a wide range of speakers including scientists, science writers and
broadcasters, mostly with a space theme. Aimed at teenagers and adults, these run monthly during
most of the year.

Most members of the Department involved in quantum technology participate in outreach events
organised by the QT Hubs. In 2019 and online in 2020, Strathclyde took a unified approach to the
annual Quantum Technology Showcase in London and presented its full research portfolio to
delegates at a dedicated stand. More locally, academics regularly contribute research talks to the
student Physics Society.

4.3 Contribution to the research base
Members of the Department make many and varied contributions to the wellbeing of Physics as a
discipline and as a community. All academics are active in peer review for journals and for funding
bodies, with several on the peer review colleges of UKRI. Staff make strong contributions to UKRI
strategic groups, panels and committees and to the development of science policy. Several

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
academics serve as journal editorial board members and editors. These are all detailed in the tables
below.

As noted previously, several academics have served as SUPA theme leaders, supporting advances
in their area in Scottish physics. The Department supports the Scottish Universities Summer Schools
in Physics (SUSSP), a Scottish charity that has held 75 International PGR level Summer Schools
since 1960. Jeffers was Director of SUSSP71, Frontiers in Quantum Dynamics and Quantum Optics,
hosted at Strathclyde in 2015, and is the current Chairman of SUSSP and its board of trustees.

A number of Physics Department academics have been recognised for their contributions to the
discipline during the REF Period. Amongst the most notable were two awards presented to Dawson
for outstanding contributions in two areas, the Dennis Gabor Medal of the Institute of Physics “For
his vision and leadership in applied photonics, including pioneering contributions to optically pumped
semiconductor lasers, diamond photonics and gallium nitride optical microsystems.” and the Aron
Kressel Award of the IEEE Photonics Society for important contributions to opto-electronic device
technology. The Institute of Physics Dennis Gabor Medal was awarded to Birch in 2020 “For
pioneering the UK fluorescence lifetime industry through research publications and the market-
leading company IBH, which he cofounded.” Furthermore, ex-Strathclyde Physics PhD graduate
Hempler, now at M Squared Lasers, also won the Dennis Gabor Medal in 2018.

Lockerbie shared in the 2016 Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) President’s Medal and two
academics were elected as RSE Fellows during the REF period (Jaroszynski, McConnell) bringing
the total to nine (also Birch, Dawson, Ferguson, Firth, Ledingham, Oppo, Phelps).
The tables below detail contributions during the REF period including:
    • Further details of the research leadership, policy and editorial roles summarised above
    • Information on additional awards and prizes not already mentioned
    • Summary of prestigious research chairs and fellowships won

UKRI leadership roles
 McKenna              STFC Science Board
                      EPSRC Capital and Equipment Strategic Advisory Team
                      STFC Future Light Source Strategy Group
 Dawson               EPSRC Quantum Technology SAT/SAN working group
                      EPSRC Advisory Groups on Quantum Technologies and the National
                      Quantum Computing Centre
 Martin                  Chair of Steering Panel of EPSRC National Epitaxy Facility
 Hidding                 STFC Accelerator Strategy Board
 Jaroszynski to 2015
 Hidding                 Member of STFC High Power Laser Facility Access Panel
 McKenna to 2016
                         Coordinators for STFC 2017 Accelerator Strategic Review
 McNeil                  Light Source
 Hidding                 Novel Accelerators

Other leadership roles
 McKenna, until 2018      Energy Technology Partnership Directorate
 Martin (chair) and       UK Nitrides Consortium Committee
 Massabuau (member)




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
National Reviews
 Riis, Dawson       2018 House of Commons Select Committee report on Quantum Technology
 McKenna            2017 BEIS Review of National Large Facilities at Harwell
 Dawson             UK Government BEIS Member, Quantum Computing Expert Group

Example Scientific Journal Editorships and Board Memberships
 Birch          Editor in Chief, Measurement Science and Technology (until 2016)
                co-founding Editor in Chief, Methods and Applications in Fluorescence
                Board, Journal of Biomedical Optics
 Dawson         Editor, now Editor-in-Chief, Progress in Quantum Electronics
 Oppo           Editorial Board, Physical Review Letters
 Robb           Board, Optics Express and Atoms
 Kuhr           Editorial Board, Physical Review X
                Associate Editor of Science Advances
 Papoff         Editorial Board, Scientific Reports
 McConnell Board, Journal of Microscopy

Awards:
 Phelps         2017 IEEE Plasma Science and Applications Award
 Ferguson       Optical Society (OSA) 2019 Robert E Hopkins Leadership Award
 Birch          2017 HORIBA Lifetime Achievement Award
 McConnell      2019 Royal Microscopy Society Mid-Career Scientific Achievement Award

Learned Societies:
                    Institute of Physics
 McNeil             Chair, Particle Accelerators and Beams Group
 McKenna            Large Facilities Forum
 Robb               Quantum Electronics and Photonics Committee
 Badnell            Chair, Atomic and Molecular Interactions Group
 Dawson             Royal Society: International Networks Committee, Commonwealth Science
                    Conference Grants Committee
                    IEEE Photonics Society: Elected Member of Board of Governors; Vice
                    President Conferences; Technical Affairs Committee; Joint Awards Committee
 Birch              Royal Society, International Exchanges Panel
 Ackemann           European Physical Society, Board Member, Quantum Electronics and Optics
                    Division
 McConnell          Royal Microscopical Society, Chair, Light Microscopy Committee

Advisory Committees for international facilities
 McKenna            APOLLON 10-Petawatt laser, France
 Jaroszynski,       Extreme Light Infrastructure facility, Europe
 McKenna
 McKenna            HIBEF project at the European XFEL, Germany




                                                                                        Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Prestigious Research Chairs and Fellowships
Won during the period:

 Mathieson     RAEng Chair in Emerging Technologies (2019)
 Cameron       Royal Society University Research Fellowship (2019)
 Herrnsdorf    EPSRC UKRI Innovation Fellowship (2018)
 Pritchard     EPSRC Quantum Technology Fellowship (2015)
 Laurand       Leverhulme Trust five year Research Leadership Award (2020)
 Tagliacozzo   Ramon y Cajal Fellowship from the Spanish Ministry of Science (2018)
Held during the period:
 Kemp          RAEng Research Chair (2014-19)
 McKenna       EPSRC (Senior) Leadership Fellow (2012-17)
 Patton        Royal Society University Research Fellowship (2013-)
 Henrich       EPSRC Research Software Engineer Fellowship (2016-21)
 Capdessus     EPSRC (Postdoctoral) Fellowship (2017-20)

The above evidence demonstrates our commitment to the discipline in terms of producing, directing
and contributing to the management of research of the highest quality. This commitment extends to
translating that research into useful technologies for the benefit of Physics, science in general and
wider society, and to explaining the purpose and meaning of its research to the public, in alignment
with the founding principles of John Anderson’s institution as “A place of useful learning”.




                                                                                            Page 21
