Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: Queen Mary University of London

Unit of Assessment: 028 History

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The School of History’s mission is to advance the historical understanding of the world in
academia and outside of it. To achieve this aim, the School supports its members in creating
world-leading, innovative research and encourages them to use their work to inform and transform
other spheres of public life. The School’s creative research environment reflects practices
developed over the past two decades to promote ambitious research that is enriched through
intellectual stimulation and international contacts, and which underpins impact beyond the
academic world. Research staff are cultivated as individuals and as members of Research
Clusters across the stages of their academic careers. This supportive environment is widely
recognised; the School is now a pre-eminent centre that nurtures a large number of Early Career
Researchers (ECRs), the future leaders of the profession.

The 45.3 FTE members of academic staff eligible for REF2021 have expertise in histories since
1000 CE, with research interests in African, American, British, European, South Asian, and Middle
Eastern History. Their research is supported and enhanced through the School’s three Research
Clusters:
   • Society, Culture and Belief
   • History of Thought, Emotion and Knowledge
   • National and International Society and Governance

Each cluster promotes productive interchange between researchers with shared interests, while
stimulating the emergence of sub-specialisms. This research environment has proved to be robust
during the COVID-19 crisis, as it manifested the strength of our ties of intellectual solidarity and
organisational agility. Research groups, organised under the leadership of the Director of Research
(DoR) (Rubin), and with support from our Research Manager (RM) (Trenery), produced 52
research seminars, delivered by and for members of the School, and held online between late
March and late July 2020. These seminars reflected the range of School expertise, and took
various formats – work in progress, discussion of pre-circulated papers, joint reading of formative
articles, guest appearances by colleagues outside QM – and were particularly concerned to
provide a framework for intellectual growth and companionship for our Postgraduate Researchers
(PGRs) and Postdoctoral Researchers (PDRs).

In 2018, under the leadership of Vice-Principal Hilton, the Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS)
Faculty created 20 Strategic Lectureships, and this vision resulted in three appointments of early
career staff in History. These ECRs (Lee, Williams, Willimott) benefit from three years with
substantially reduced teaching duties. The HSS Faculty also fosters the interdisciplinarity that
enriches the School’s research environment through its Institute for the Humanities and Social
Sciences (IHSS) [REF5a 2.I.5], led by Director Reid-Henry (Geography). The HSS Faculty
regularly contributes financial support for the School’s international research collaborations and to
exchanges with universities abroad. Members of the School have provided leadership for cross-
Faculty endeavours, like those of the Mile End Institute.

Inspired by QM’s Research Strategy, the IHSS enables the School of History’s strong relations with
other Schools of the HSS Faculty. Contacts are also facilitated by the presence of excellent
historians in other Schools: Ogborn and Owens in Geography; Brotton, Schwartz and Watt-Smith
in English; Hicks in Modern Languages; and Legon in Business and Management. These links are
reflected in the cross-disciplinary character of our Research Centres and in the formation of cross-
Faculty research forums and funded research projects, as well as in joint supervision of
PGRs, including the holders of 6 Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs) and 2 Leverhulme
Doctoral Scholarships. Beyond QM, the School has maintained and extended strong external
networks through its broad representation in Institute of Historical Research (IHR) seminars, its

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sponsorship of European Research Council (ERC)-supported scholars, and its maintenance of
regular research exchanges with four leading universities abroad (Basel, Freiburg, Delaware,
Northwestern). In late 2020, we secured a relationship with Australian Catholic University’s Institute
for Religion and Critical Inquiry, towards doctoral training and research collaboration from 2022.

Research Management enables our research activities and operates within a QM-wide structure,
comprising a Vice-Principal (since 2015, Hilton, an historian), and a Dean responsible for research
in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS), who oversees the work of a DoR in
each School. The DoR in the School of History is assisted by a Director of Public Engagement and
Impact (DPEI) (Ellison), Directors of Research Funding (DRFs) (Cohen and Mendelsohn), a
Coordinator of Postdoctoral Research (Mendelsohn), and a Director of Graduate Studies (DGS)
(Wagner). All five report to the Research Committee, chaired by the DoR and attended by the
Head of School (HoS) (Todman). Faculty support is provided by a Research Manager (Boneham),
who supervises the School’s RM (Trenery). HSS Research Managers meet regularly to share good
practices across the Faculty.

Within this structure, research is planned through individual research mentoring and annual
assessment. The connection between the QM Research Strategy and the work of individual
researchers is enhanced by Research Mentors [REF5a 3.I], established in the School after
REF2014, to provide personalised support for individual researchers; Mentors read work-in-
progress, advise on publications, and guide on research planning and development. Such Mentors
help disseminate good practices, generate collegiality, and promote exchange of knowledge within
the School.

Research Strategy 2014-2020
In 2014, the School set the following strategic research objectives:
    a) to encourage and achieve excellent research;
    b) to develop new strengths, responsive to global intellectual concerns, attuned to visual and
       material histories, and to the possibilities offered by digital technologies;
    c) to sustain and enhance our external research funding;
    d) to continue developing our Research Centres;
    e) to recruit and support excellent PGRs and attract funding in their support;
    f) to continue the development of support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs), Postdoctoral
       Research Fellows (PDRFs), and Postdoctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs);
    g) to intensify our commitment to public engagement and impact.

Our work towards these objectives has enabled us to be a beacon of excellence across the fields
of history, and in the practice of academic life within and beyond academia between 2014 and
2020.

a) Encouraging and Achieving Excellent Research
       Research Clusters, and their associated sub-specialisms, provide a supportive environment
       for personal and collective enterprise within the School. They differ in approach, period, and
       geographical scope, and have stimulated remarkable creativity across the School, including
       in our PGRs and PDRs.

       Society, Culture and Belief
              Identities in Religious Cultures: Asbridge, Corens, Edgington (-August 2019),
              Lowe, Poleg, Questier (-August 2017), Rapoport, Rubin

               Material and Visual Culture: Cohen, Glancy, Jones, Lowe, Poleg, Rubin, Vickery,
               Walker, Ward, Williams

       History of Thought, Emotion and Knowledge
               History of Political Thought: Ashcroft, Bourke (-December 2018), Fitzmaurice,
               Forrester (-August 2017), Isabella, Manent (-June 2018), Siegelberg (-August
               2019), Skinner, Stedman Jones, Varouxakis, Yaqoob

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             History of Science, Medicine and the Emotions: Bangham, Dixon, Hayward,
             Jones, Mendelsohn, Ramsden, Taylor

      National and International Society and Governance
             Political Cultures (including the new History of Capitalism): Cohen, Ellison, Foster,
             Hennessy, Hilton, Jackson, Jones, McCarthy (-August 2018), Maggor, Peart,
             Saunders, Smele, Todman, von Hodenberg (on secondment 2018-23), White,
             Willimott

             War, Peace and Internationalism: Ellison, Frampton, Hennessy, Hilton,
             McCarthy (-August 2018), Todman

             Global Histories of Domination and Resistance: Dubow (-December 2016),
             Fitzmaurice, Frampton, James, Layton, Lee, Loffman, Moffat, Rapoport,
             Wagner, Waters

      Over the period of assessment, we have expanded by 19%, from 38 to 45.3 FTE, and our
      research power has grown even more; we have selected for REF2021 56 research-based
      books (including edited ones). Our research reflects several types of historical practice:

         •   developing and applying innovative methods: Dixon’s history of the emotions in
             Britain; Jones’s visual and medical history of the smile; ECR Moffat’s use of
             ethnography to explore postcolonial legacies; Poleg’s material history of the Bible;
             Skinner’s study of Shakespeare’s plays through early modern rhetoric; and von
             Hodenberg’s social history of TV comedy;
         •   writing major historical biographies where rich contextualisation is combined with
             new research and distinctive interpretations: Bourke on Edmund Burke; Jackson on
             de Gaulle; James on George Padmore; Stedman Jones on Karl Marx;
         •   offering re-evaluations of major historical phenomena: ECR Corens of the
             Reformation through the fate of religious minorities; Foster of the Easter Uprising
             through trails of memory; Loffman of Belgian rule in the Congo through the
             operation of the Catholic church; Wagner of the Amritsar Massacre as a touchstone
             for imperial violence; and ECR Willimott of the Russian Revolution as an event in
             the history of utopianism;
         •   preparing scholarly translations and editions of primary sources accompanied
             by interpretative essays: Rapoport of the oldest surviving Mameluk land-registry to
             study medieval Egyptian peasant life and Rubin of the first ritual murder accusation
             against Jews from the sole twelfth-century manuscript;
         •   producing innovative studies of political economy, and formative contributions to
             the new history of capitalism, by Cohen, Maggor, and Peart;
         •   bringing global and transnational perspectives to the history of political
             thought: Fitzmaurice on the legal-intellectual underpinnings of colonial settlement;
             Isabella on democracy in the Mediterranean after 1815; and ECR Siegelberg on the
             concept of genocide;
         •   writing historical studies of scientific (including medical) ideas and practices
             that span periods and disciplinary vantage points: ECR Bangham on the emergence
             of genetic research out of the development of blood transfusion; Hayward on
             psychiatry and the British state; Mendelsohn on the rise of physicians as civic
             functionaries in early modern Europe; and Ramsden on the effects of urban
             planning on wellbeing in British and American twentieth-century cities;
         •   pioneering interpretations of modern British history: Hennessy’s research on
             the UK’s nuclear submarine programme and his re-assessment of the early 1960s;
             McCarthy’s study of women in the diplomatic service; Saunders’s book on the 1975
             EEC referendum; Todman’s two-volume history of World War II as a people’s
             experience; and ECR Waters on Black British history through migration and
             diversity.


                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Such efforts have extended the School’s reputation for rigorous yet accessible histories that
       respond to contemporary concerns.

b) Developing New Strengths
       Our expansion into global and transnational history, material and visual history, and digital
       humanities (DH) has realised our expectations, as expressed in REF2014, to grow
       research that is world-leading in originality, significance and rigour. The Global Histories
       sub-cluster has produced works that break new ground and use neglected sources: ECR
       James on journalism and anti-colonial resistance; ECR Layton on piracy in the Indian
       Ocean; Loffman on governance in colonial Congo; and ECR Moffat on the afterlives of anti-
       colonial resistance.

       Material and Visual Culture expertise has been strengthened with ECRs Walker (early
       modern architecture), Ward (modern art and activism), and Williams (eighteenth-century
       French art and religion). We also benefit from association with our Honorary Professor
       Charles Saumarez Smith (Secretary and Chief Executive the Royal Academy of Arts), and
       Honorary Research Fellow Tristram Hunt (Director, Victoria and Albert Museum), who help
       mentor members of staff, and advise our PGRs.

       The School’s commitment to material and visual history has resulted in collaborative
       activities like: Cohen’s conference ‘Coming to Terms: Confronting War and Peace through
       Visual and Material Culture in the Atlantic World’ at the McNeil Center at the University of
       Philadelphia (2018); Jones’s co-curation of the exhibition ‘Witnessing Terror: French
       Revolutionary Prints, 1792-4’ at the UCL Art Gallery (2020); ECR Layton’s exhibition at the
       Greenwich Maritime Museum on Captain Cook’s clothes (2018); Lowe’s exhibition in
       Lisbon, based on research into two newly discovered paintings (2017); Rubin’s colloquium
       at QM ‘Visualising the Political in Medieval Italy’ (2018); and Vickery’s BBC2 programmes
       on women artists (2014).

       The School’s research has benefited from QM’s advances in Digital Humanities since
       REF2014. In 2013, we created the Digital Initiative Network (DIN) across HSS, led by then-
       ECR Poleg, and Sparks. A grant of 258,000 euros (PI Poleg with European partners) from
       Erasmus+ supported a training collaboration – Digital Editing of Medieval Manuscripts
       (DEMM) – between 2014 and 2017. PGRs and PDRs participated and worked with
       developers to create and publish their own editions. A subsequent endeavour, SCUSI
       (Soutien aux coopérations universitaires et scientifiques internationales), is an international
       programme of eight partners across Europe, Asia and the U.S. With funding from the
       French Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, it has supported state-of-the-art training in DH to
       PGRs. The School also spreads DH expertise: in the keynote lecture delivered by Todman
       at the German Historical Institute in Paris (2019) on ‘Teaching History in the Digital Age’;
       and through an initiative combining Visual Culture and DH – Artists in Paris: Mapping the
       18th-Century Art World – developed by ECR Williams and supported by Sparks, and
       extended across the HSS Faculty through training workshops.

       Digital projects are in development at the Centre for the History of the Emotions’ Living with
       Feeling project, and by Pathologies of Solitude project, led by Taylor. The new Living with
       Machines project in the English Department and the Alan Turing Institute (with AHRC
       funding of £8.8m) and led by Ahnert, re-orients data science research towards cultural
       archives and artefacts through Humanities-oriented questions. The School of History offers
       an intellectual home to the project’s 3 PDRAs (Beleen, McDonough, Wilson), who are
       mentored within our postdoctoral cohort by Mendelsohn.

c) Sustaining and Enhancing Research Funding
       The School’s DRFs work with its RM and with QM’s Joint Research Management Office
       (JRMO) on History’s grant capture. The DRFs advise individuals and Research Centres on
       funding opportunities. They assist all colleagues – Teaching Associates and Fellows (TAs
       and TFs), PGRs, PDRs, ECRs, and senior staff – in writing grant applications. The School’s

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       RM provides advisory seminars and assembles a Research Funding Newsletter, which is
       sent out monthly to all researchers with information about funding calls, training
       opportunities, and updates on the research funding landscape.

       Our ambition to extend research funding success from the REF2014 level through
       encouragement, support and management has been realised in growth from £5.2m in
       REF2014, to £9.9m – 97% rise – in this REF cycle. The School is able to support the
       development of research activities and resources for all researchers by encouraging
       through the Faculty Flexible Research Funds scheme, which enables grant-holders to
       recover 20% of their overheads. Just between the 2016/17 and 2019/20 financial years,
       research cost recovery has risen from £93,261.59 to £303,1140.04. The School has also
       promoted the recruitment of full-time administrative staff to support research, through the
       strategic use of research income. For example, the Wellcome-funded Living with Feeling
       project recruited a 0.75FTE Engagement and Impact Manager (Brown), and the School
       then provided funding to make this a full-time post, with 25% of the holder’s time spent
       supporting research impact across the School.

d) Research Centres
       Our researchers coordinate eight specialist Research Centres. The purpose of our
       Centres is to integrate researchers at all career stages, advance interdisciplinary research,
       promote cross-Faculty and international cooperation, engage public interest, and have
       impact beyond academia:
          • Centre for the History of Emotions
          • Centre for the Study of the History of Political Thought
          • Mile End Institute – co-directed with the School of Political and International
              Relations (SPIR)
          • Centre for Studies of Home – co-directed with the School of Geography
          • Centre for Eighteenth Century Studies – co-directed with Geography and the School
              of English and Drama (SED)
          • Centre for Medieval, Renaissance and Early Modern Studies – co-directed with
              SED and the School of Languages, Linguistics and Film (SLLF)
          • Raphael Samuel Centre for Public and Creative Histories – co-directed with
              Birkbeck
          • Leo Baeck Institute for the Study of German Jewish History.

       The Centre for the History of the Emotions is a world-leader, funded mainly by a £1.7m
       Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award (2015-22). Our other Centres receive funding of £3K
       annually from the HSS Faculty, and generate income from their own research grants.

       ECRs are active in our Centres: ECR Waters co-directs the Raphael Samuel Centre for
       Public and Creative Histories; ECR Corens co-directs the QM Centre for Religion and
       Literature with a colleague from SED. The Visual and Material Forum, co-founded by
       ECR Ward in 2017 (with Emilie Evans in SLLF), and now co-led by ECRs Walker and
       Williams, with Ward, is being considered for development into a Research Centre.

e) Recruitment and Support of PGRs
       While the School did not receive AHRC consortium funding between 2014 and 2019, QM
       enhanced its own commitment (£1m per annum) to PGRs with its Principal’s Studentships.
       In September 2019, we became a full member of the AHRC-funded London Arts and
       Humanities Partnership (LAHP), and 6 of our PGRs benefit from LAHP support. PGRs are
       also funded by the Leverhulme (2) and Wellcome (6) Trusts.

       As will be detailed in section 2, our PGRs receive continuous training for creative and
       resilient academic and non-academic careers. Many have progressed to postdoctoral
       academic positions, and several – especially CDA holders – have joined museums,
       archives and other cultural institutions. We have also developed a training programme in
       pedagogy for our PGRs, who can teach undergraduates classes from their second year.

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       We seek to integrate our PGRs into research networks: all PGRs are introduced to a
       research cluster; all participate in a research seminar at the IHR; and our international
       exchanges offer them further opportunities.

f) Support for ECRs, PDRFs and PDRAs
       The School’s post-REF2014 strategic ambition to enhance support for ECRs and PDRs,
       has been fully realised. The Coordinator of Postdoctoral Research (a role held by a senior
       academic) applies our distinctive approach to PDRFs and PDRAs, with timely integration
       into the School’s research environment, and introduction to a Research Mentor, who offers
       advice on research. PDRs are incorporated into the work of our Research Clusters and
       Centres, and are introduced to opportunities offered by the HSS Faculty, like funding for
       research-based initiatives. Our support for PDRs extends to those on fixed-term
       Lectureships too; they enjoy a research allowance, mentoring, and participation in research
       exchange schemes.

       Regular postdoctoral colloquia allow PDRs to present research, and training sessions
       advise them on career development. Another important forum is the HSS Faculty’s
       interdisciplinary ECR Network where History PDRs have been particularly active.

       PDRs in our Centres have organised public events: in 2016, PDRF Sutton organised ‘The
       Museum of the Normal’, an immersive public event about normality and health; in 2017,
       PDRF Hunter led a day-long workshop 'Unravelled: The History of Drugs and Sleep
       Disorders’; and PDRF Chaney conceived the exhibition ‘Emotional Objects’ in 2017 and
       ‘Who Cares?’ in 2019, both at the Royal College of Nursing.

       We have taken up enthusiastically schemes targeted at ECRs: as ECR Cohen became an
       AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinker in 2014 and erstwhile PGR Richardson in 2018
       (transferred to the University of Strathclyde); ECR Ward applied successfully for an AHRC
       Leadership Fellowship, Early Career Strand; and ECR Willimott submitted an AHRC
       Research, Development and Engagement Fellowship application in autumn 2020.

g) Public Engagement, Impact and Open Access
       The School has achieved its strategic objective to intensify public engagement and impact
       through innovations in leadership and support, activities by centres and individuals, and
       through future planning. After REF2014, a Director of Public Engagement and Impact
       (DPEI) was appointed to work with the DoR and report to the School’s Research
       Committee. The DPEI nurtures the School’s tradition of disseminating high-quality research
       to non-academic audiences by supporting centres and individuals to identify and support
       public engagement and research impact. The DPEI is assisted by the RM (Trenery) and by
       the Engagement and Impact Manager from the Centre for the History of the Emotions
       (Brown). The School also receives Faculty guidance from HSS Deputy Dean for Impact
       (Welton), the HSS Impact Officer (Ahmed), and the QM Research Impact Manager (Wall).
       QMUL’s Centre for Public Engagement provides incentives and resources [REF5a 2.II].
       Organisational funding for individuals and events that disseminate research includes small
       grants (up to £1000) and large grants (up to £10,000). The IHSS Collaboration Fund and
       the HSS Faculty Impact Funding also enable Impact initiatives [REF5a 2.II, 4]. School,
       Faculty and University training in public engagement and impact is offered to all, including
       PGRs. Within the School, significant public engagement and research impact initiatives are
       recognised in colleagues’ workloads; those involved in impact case studies are given
       teaching relief.

       The School facilitates the activities of its Research Centres in making connections beyond
       QMUL. The Centre for the History of the Emotions, the Leo Baeck Institute, the Mile End
       Institute (MEI), and the Raphael Samuel Centre have dynamic programmes of events and
       notable public profiles. For example, from the Centre for the History of the Emotions, the
       Living with Feeling project has engaged with charities, the NHS and schools; Pathologies of
       Solitude has held public events and produced podcasts, as has The Emotions Lab. The

                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      MEI holds public events on matters of public and political significance, which are also
      available online. The Leo Baeck Institute promotes German-Jewish history through public
      events, and the Raphael Samuel History Centre has become a hub for interaction between
      historians and activists, with regular events – History Acts – in response to current debates,
      including Black History Matters, Prisons in Lockdown, Fighting with Data, Recording a
      Crisis, and Doing Public History in Lockdown. The online resources of the School’s History
      of Biomedicine Research Group (2010-2017) remain the most significant repository of
      interdisciplinary witness testimony in this field.

      Public engagement is also pursued by individuals. Vickery has written and presented two
      major BBC television series (The Story of Women and Art, 2014; Suffragettes Forever: The
      Story of Women and Power, 2015). Hennessy has advised government, the Civil Services
      and Parliament on constitutional matters and remains a regular contributor on radio and
      television. Colleagues from across the School have also featured in print, radio and
      television on subjects ranging from anti-Semitism (Rubin), to politics, society and war
      (Ellison, Jackson, Lee, Saunders, Todman), social movements (von Hodenberg) and
      empire (Loffman, Wagner). Furthermore, as part of its research strategy, the School
      promotes publications for a public audience: like Asbridge’s The Greatest Knight; Foster’s
      On Seamus Heaney; Jones’s Versailles; Lee’s The SS Officer’s Armchair; Rubin’s Very
      Short Introduction: Middle Ages; and Skinner’s Very Short Introduction: Machiavelli. Several
      of our books have reached beyond English-reading publics and, since 2014, have been
      translated into 11 languages.

      The School also reaches wide audiences through its four annual public lectures (the
      Hennessy Lecture in Modern British History; the Annual Lecture in the History of the
      Emotions; the Annual Philip Ogden Lecture at our partner institution in Paris ULIP; and
      the Rubinstein Lecture in the History of Political Thought); and through its two biennial
      public lectures (the Biennial Eric Foner Lecture and conference in American History, with
      Foner as participant; and the Biennial Leo Baeck Institute Lecture). Annual lectures are
      a made available through the School’s YouTube channel and our Centres’ websites.

      The pursuit of research impact after REF2014 focussed on impact case studies in the
      areas of creativity, culture and society, and public policy, law and services. Centres and
      individuals have worked with archives and museums, nationally and internationally (the
      Centre for the History of the Emotions with the Royal College of Nursing; Asbridge with the
      National Archives, the Lincoln Collection Museum, Lincoln Castle, and the Morgan Library,
      New York; Lowe with the Museu Nacional de Arte Antiga in Lisbon and Museu Nacional de
      Soares dos Reisin in Porto). They have given testimony to UK Parliamentary committees
      and influenced public debate about government policies (Frampton on extremism and
      counter-terrorism; Hennessy on constitution and government), and written, presented or
      appeared on film, radio and television (Asbridge’s BBC television series; Dixon’s Radio 4
      series; Vickery’s BBC Radio 4 and BBC television series). As part of its post-REF2021
      research strategy, the School has identified centres and individuals whose research will
      generate impact in both new (visual culture) and established (British History) areas of
      expertise across its research clusters and from individuals at different stages in their
      careers.

      The School disseminates its research widely and openly. In collaboration with the QM
      Library, members of academic staff upload articles onto Queen Mary Research Online
      (QMRO). In keeping with QMUL’s guidelines (REF5a 2.IV), and UKRI’s Open Access
      policy, we train academic staff and offer clear guidance in our School Handbook. Hence,
      we have achieved 100% compliance in our REF2021 submissions. Gold Access costs for
      publications are planned as outcomes of funded research. QM funds are available to
      support Gold Access for outputs with potential for considerable academic or non-academic
      impact.



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

Promotion of People and Resilient Careers
In line with our Research Strategy objectives – especially (a) excellent research and (f) support for
ECRs and PDRs – we have, since REF2014, sought to make appointments that broaden our
research expertise, and mentor colleagues in their careers and towards promotion.

In pursuit of diversification in our research and curriculum, we have recruited ECRs in five areas:
early modern history (Corens); global history and the history of race (James, Layton, Moffat and
Waters); the history of political and legal thought (Manent, Siegelberg and Yaqoob); the history of
science (Bangham and Ramsden); and the history of visual and material cultures (Walker, Ward
and Williams). We have also recruited established scholars to two Research Clusters: History of
Thought, Emotion and Knowledge (Fitzmaurice); and National and International Society and
Governance (Foster and Hilton).

We encourage career development through effective mentoring of PDRs and ECRs in accordance
with the Concordat for Researcher Development. Sabbatical leave is available to all research staff
by application that is approved at Faculty level: six months for every three years served. The
School has worked flexibly within this structure, awarding leave or teaching reduction at points
critical for the completion of major projects or research funding applications.

Our Research Strategy strives to incorporate new colleagues, permanent or fixed-term, into the
School’s research culture and networks, and these are supported in applications to become
Fellows of the Royal Historical Society. New academic staff are trained in doctoral supervision and
allocated to a PGR supervisory team as Second Supervisors, where they gain experience
alongside Primary Supervisors.

We encourage ECRs to seek research funding and connections with non-academic institutions for
the realisation of research impact. In his first year at QM, ECR Layton secured the Sackler-Caird
Fellowship to co-lead researchers and artists in the ‘Cook’s New Clothes’ project at Greenwich
Maritime Museum. In her first year, ECR James co-authored a manifesto for radical global history
and secured a BA Visiting Fellowship for a scholar from Nigeria (Muritala). In his second year at
QM, ECR Moffat launched a South Asian Studies Forum, with support from the IHSS Early Career
Workshop Funding Scheme. In their respective first years at QM: ECRs James and Moffat – with
colleagues from SED – founded the QM Postcolonial Seminar; ECR Ward founded the Visual and
Material Forum with colleagues across the HSS Faculty, and has since been joined by ECRs
Walker and Williams. Staff on fixed-term contracts receive mentoring and research expenses;
those of more than 2 years’ standing are also eligible for sabbatical leave. When Fixed-Term
Lecturer Briggs was appointed thanks to Leverhulme research funding generated by a colleague’s
research, she was mentored towards an Erasmus+ mobility award for 2020 at the University of
Utrecht (now postponed to 2021 because of COVID).

Research performance is central to promotion. Since 2014, all probationers completed their terms
successfully (Cohen, James, Layton, Maggor, Moffat, Peart, Poleg, Saunders, Ward), and all
applications for promotion have been successful. Formative comment on emergent research is
offered to academic staff when they develop funding applications. Hence, since 2014, the following
colleagues – ranging from lecturers to professors – have secured externally-funded leave from
diverse funders: Bourke (Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin), ECR Corens (British Academy
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship), Dixon (Wellcome Trust Fellowship), Frampton (AHRC Early
Career Fellowship), Hayward (Wellcome Trust Fellowship), Isabella (Madrid Institute of Advanced
Study, European University Institute, Max Weber Centre for Cultural and Social Studies, University
of Erfurt), Jackson (Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship), Jones (AHRC Standard Grant,
Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship, National Humanities Center, University of Richmond
Virginia), Lowe (Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship), McCarthy (British Academy Mid-Career
Fellowship), Mendelsohn (European Research Council and Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences
Sociales, Paris), ECR Moffat (British Academy Postdoctoral Research Fellowship), Questier
(Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship), Rapoport (Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship),

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Taylor (Leverhulme Research Fellowship and Wellcome Trust Investigator Award), Varouxakis
(Lichtenberg-Kolleg, Georg-August University Göttingen); von Hodenberg (Humboldt Foundation,
DFG [German Research Council], Volkswagen Foundation), Wagner (Marie Skłodowska-Curie
Global Fellowship), ECR Ward (AHRC Leadership Fellowship).

The HSS Faculty’s Distinguished Visiting Fellowship (DVF) scheme has brought to the School
world-renowned scholars who enhance and challenge us [REF5a 2.I.5]. HSS Schools collaborate
in applications, and our School has led several successful bids: Lauren Benton (Vanderbilt,
international history and colonial law), Sara Lipton (Stony Brook, SUNY, medieval visual culture),
Stephanie McCurry (Columbia, nineteenth-century political economy), Patricia Seed (University of
California, Irvine, Renaissance cartography), and Dan Smail (Harvard, material culture and slavery,
postponed to 2022 because of COVID-19). Each visitor delivers lectures and seminars, interacts
with colleagues, and advises PGRs and PDRs. Our Centres also host distinguished visitors: the
Centre for the History of the Emotions sponsored Jean-Jacques Courtine (University of Auckland)
as a Leverhulme Visiting Professor in 2018; the Centre also supported three Artists in Residence
(Millar 2016/17, Newson 2013/14, Whistler 2013/14), who added visual, sonic and performative
dimensions to our research. The Centre for the Study of the History of Political Thought has
welcomed 45 visitors in this cycle, including 5 senior scholars, from John Hopkins, German
Historical Institute Paris, University of Leuven, Notre Dame University, and the University of Fudan.

Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
The School is committed to enhancing equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) throughout its
research activities. We are keen to promote EDI in a School whose undergraduates in 2018/19
included 32% who identified as BAME. The School has accepted the recommendations of two of
the recent reports by the Royal Historical Society, on Gender and Race in the profession, following
discussion at School Away Days; the 2020 LBGTQ+ report is currently being analysed and
discussed. These reports have led us to develop guidelines for reflective practice on teaching. We
re-committed ourselves in the light of the killing of George Floyd, and inspired by the Black Lives
Matter movement, at a School meeting in July 2020. The HSS Faculty has allocated two fully-
funded PhD studentships for UK applicants from a BAME background.

EDI plays an essential role in our recruitment practices. We strive to develop the diversity of our
academic staff. We ensure that interview panels are always gender-mixed. All staff involved in
recruitment of academic staff, PDRs and PGRs, and those involved in REF preparation, are trained
in fair selection and interview practice by the QM Academy.

Since REF2014, the School has enhanced its EDI policies on staffing and research through these
actions:
    1. The appointment of a Diversity Officer in 2014 (Denley, ECR James, Hayward, ECR
       Moffat), who, since 2019, is also member of the School Management Committee, and
       whose agenda items are given priority to allow ample time for discussion;
    2. The exercise of the staff workload model to ensure parity;
    3. The promotion of QM’s parental leave and flexible working policies, with uptake from men
       and women with caring responsibilities, taken up by 8 women and 10 men during this REF
       cycle;
    4. The use of robust statements when advertising posts and in further particulars to signal our
       interest in receiving applications from members of underrepresented groups;
    5. The encouragement of diversity in postgraduate research through the Faculty provision for
       2 PGT, and, from 2019/20, 2 PGR scholarships for BAME students;
    6. The commitment to implementing all 34 recommendations of the Royal Historical Society’s
       Race, Ethnicity and Equality in UK History Report. The implementation will be intersectional
       and is attached to existing priorities on gender associated with our application to the Athena
       Swan scheme. We are fortunate in benefitting from ECR Waters’s guidance, as he is a
       member of the Society’s working group;
    7. The introduction of Inclusion training to all staff, and Fair Selection training (with refresher
       sessions) for those acting on selection panels;


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   8. The provision of EDI training for appraisers and mentors/mentees by the Centre for
       Academic and Professional Development (CAPD);
   9. The requirement that assessors for REF2021 undergo REF-specific EDI training;
   10. In spring 2020, the School introduced a formal light-load policy for those returning from
       parental or family leave – taken over a semester with significantly reduced teaching and
       administration and within the two years following such leave – in order to enhance their
       research careers;
   11. In Lockdown, during winter 2021, those undertaking home schooling have been relieved of
       their administrative duties, following consultation with the HoS.

The School promotes EDI in the face of structural challenges in the discipline and beyond it. Since
REF2014, we have enhanced our commitment to working towards gender equality in staffing and
in allocation of responsibilities. During the current period of assessment, 7 of our 16 new
appointments have been of women (Bangham, Corens, James, Manent, Siegelberg, Ward,
Williams); and 5.5 of our 11 professorial FTEs are women. Senior academic leadership roles have
also been filled by women: 1 of the 3 Heads of School since 2014 is female (Rubin). Other senior
academic positions – DoR, DRF, DGS, DPEI, Director of Student Support – have been held by
women (respectively Rubin, Cohen, Taylor, von Hodenberg and Davis).

The principles of equality have permeated the preparation of our REF2021 submission. All those
involved in (internal) assessment have attended QM training designed for REF2021. The School’s
Head (Todman), DoR (Rubin), RM (Trenery) have undergone REF EDI Training too.

Postdoctoral Researchers (PDRs)
The School’s commitment to postdoctoral career development has made it a magnet for excellent
applicants, hence 10 PDRFs form part of our REF2021 submission (7 in REF2014). Since
REF2014, we have also supported some 12 PDRAs employed on funded research projects. In
2020/21, we are home to 18 funded PDRs, supported by the Leverhulme Trust, the British
Academy, the Wellcome Trust and other funders. We have benefitted from the Leverhulme Early
Career Fellowship scheme thanks to the willingness of the HSS Faculty to invest in the salaries of
successful candidates. We have also had 8 Wellcome Trust Postdoctoral Fellows in the School.
Since the census date in 2020, we have been joined by 2 new PDRs and 1 PDRA.

Our Coordinator of Postdoctoral Research (Mendelsohn) organises a colloquium series of
thematically paired papers by PDRs, as well as training sessions on facets of a thriving academic
career. These sessions also attract PGRs and ECR academic staff, thus creating an arc of
sociability across the early stages of the academic lifecycle. Since 2018, PDRs have benefitted
from the HSS Early Career Researcher Network, led by the HSS Research Managers Team, which
offers peer-review of funding applications, and opportunities for co-organisation of interdisciplinary
workshops. Our Academic Development Mentors offer PDRs training as they begin to teach; they
are also encouraged to develop a module based on their research.

Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs)
Our research strategy involves the training, mentoring and integration of PGRs. Amid high
competition, the School has sustained PGR recruitment by:
• securing PGR studentships in the annual QM HSS Faculty competition, funded by £1m of
   recurrent annual funding;
• winning 6 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs), with museums (History of the
   Home [Geffrye Museum], Imperial War Museum, Museum of London, V&A), the British Library,
   the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and the Institut Français. The School has also secured
   6 PGR studentships funded by the Wellcome Trust, and 2 from the Leverhulme Trust;
• developing a collaborative PGR Scholarship with the German Historical Institute, funded by
   the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research;
• securing 6 AHRC LAHP studentships (since QM became a full member in 2019/20) and
   access to the training for all PGRs that it offers.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Prospective PGRs receive advice from our DGS and prospective supervisors. Applications are
scrutinised by experienced scholars in a process overseen by the DGS, a role held by colleagues
experienced in doctoral supervision.

The School strives towards EDI in PGR recruitment and supervision; in 2019/20, our 69 PGRs
included 34 females and 35 males. The DGS (Wagner) ensures that selection and funding
allocation accord with EDI guidelines, and reports to the Faculty on the process. In consultation
with PGR representatives, we develop rigorous supervision practices to ensure equity across the
student body in accordance with QM’s Code of Practice for Research Degree Programmes. A PGR
representative is member of our EDI Committee.

PGR Supervision and Training
Each History PGR is supervised by a Primary Supervisor and guided by a Second Supervisor;
when the subject requires, other experts from the School or from other HSS Schools join the
supervisory team. Since 2015, the School has enhanced the role of Second Supervisors
(previously called Mentors) to support PGRs from induction through progression to completion.
Second Supervisors read drafts and advise on publications and career development. Such
guidance is coordinated with Primary Supervisors; both Supervisors’ efforts are recognised in our
workload model.

History’s PGRs receive School and Faculty/QM training. The DGS coordinates sessions on time
management, career planning, grant applications, conference participation, academic writing, and
preparation for the viva. Effective supervision and training have resulted in sustained success in
timely submission rates; 100% of the full-time cohorts in this REF period, taking into account
permitted interruptions and extensions, have completed on time. Our growth has also been
remarkable, from 39.2 PhD awards in REF2014 to 92.9 awards in REF2021. PGRs have
expressed satisfaction through the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES): between
2017 and 2019, satisfaction with ‘supervision’ (points 2.1 and 2.2) rose from 85% to 96.8%, and
from 70% to 87.1%.

The School finances its PGRs’ training in languages, research techniques, DH, palaeography, and
oral history. DH training is also offered by the School’s E-Strategy Manager (Sparks), and other
skills are acquired at the IHR and at specialist language centres. The Erasmus+ digital training
project DEMM (2014-17), mentioned above, gave PGRs training in editing manuscripts, digital
publication, and international collaboration. The School has also developed a partnership with
Cambridge University Library (Hands:on, 2018-), where, every summer, our PGRs join European
peers to work with developers in creating interfaces for digital presentation of manuscripts.

Beyond supervision and training, we enhance the prospects of our PGRs in employment in
academia and beyond. We offer workshops on application for postdoctoral awards and mock-
interviews. PGRs are encouraged to hone public engagement and academic communication skills
through QM’s Academic Development programme. They are able to accumulate credits for skills
training towards The Queen Mary Diploma of Researcher Development. History PGRs have been
celebrated by QMUL’s Rising Star award for excellence in public engagement, most recently PGR
Mawdsley. We also hold workshops on careers in the Civil Service, in the cultural and heritage
industries, and in media and journalism.

A substantial number of PGRs have gone on to postdoctoral positions in the UK and abroad, and
many have secured permanent posts at leading HEIs: in the UK at the universities of Birkbeck,
Bristol, Cambridge, Chichester, Edinburgh, Exeter, Imperial College, King’s College London,
Manchester, Oxford, Portsmouth, Strathclyde, Sussex, Swansea, Westminster, and York; and
abroad, at Charles University Prague, and the universities of Groningen, Nijmegen, NYU Paris,
and Pennsylvania; another - a five-year post at the European University Institute. PGRs have
secured posts in leading museums (Ella Kilgallon, V&A; Hannah Lee, National Portrait Gallery).
PGR holders of CDAs are particularly successful in entering cultural and heritage institutions (Katie
McElvanney, Slavonic Librarian at the British Library; Mia Jackson, curator of Waddesdon Manor;


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Lee as mentioned above; Hannah Mawdsley, Imperial War Museum, and subsequently, Ham
House).

PGR Research Culture
Our PGRs are responsible for the History Research Forum, a fortnightly research discussion
group, and they organise the School’s Spring PGR Colloquium, where first-year PGRs present
their research a month before their Progression interviews (when doctoral status is confirmed).

PGRs are active members of our Research Centres: those at the Centre for the Study of the
History of Political Thought run an IHR seminar, a Reading Group, and an annual international
conference; PGRs in modern British History assist the Mile End Institute in work on public policy
and contemporary politics; PGRs in the Centre for the History of the Emotions organise workshops,
write research-based blogs, and animate seminars; PGRs in Medieval and Early Modern history
enjoy a programme of international visitors through the interdisciplinary Centre for Renaissance
and Early Modern Studies (CREMS). Some of our PGRs are co-conveners of IHR seminars: the
seminar in colonial/postcolonial history (Smith); the ECR Seminar in the History of Political Thought
(Grieco, Halo, Lim, Mair, Steinhauer); the IHR British History Reading Group (Murphy); and the Life
Cycle Seminar (Vine). In 2020, PGR Wilson founded a New Generation group of PGRs/ECRs in
Jewish History, with support from the School and from the Jewish Historical Society of England;
and PGR Langley co-founded the Mysticism and Lived Experience International Network. Some of
our PGRs created, in 2019, the Women in History Forum for mutual support, and for the mentoring
of undergraduates. During the COVID-19 Lockdown, our PGRs organised three ‘Shut Up and
Write’ days for mutual encouragement and support in writing, and helped co-organise many of the
52 research webinars during that challenging period. PGRs also contributed to an American
Presidency research group, sharing advice on online archives and research progress.

All PGRs can benefit from the School’s doctoral exchanges, to which they travel with members of
staff, and where they present research to local peers and established scholars. Exchanges are
geared towards particular fields of history: with the University of Basel, global, modern European
and material History; with Northwestern University, medieval/early, global, and modern British and
European history; with the University of Cambridge, medieval history and manuscript studies; with
the University of Delaware, material culture in U.S. history; with the University of Freiburg, cultural
history. These exchanges enhance intellectual sophistication and historiographical awareness, and
offer PGRs opportunities to create networks of peers, and receive responses to their research.
PGRs also compete individually for international schemes. In 2017, PGR Vanessa Lim won a
Fellowship of the International Society for the History of Rhetoric; in 2020, PGR Hillary Burlock
secured a Fellowship at the Lewis Walpole Library at Yale University, and another at the
Huntington Library in California, and PGR Carmel Heeley won a grant from the Foundation pour la
Mémoire de la Shoah.

PGRs have access to dedicated postgraduate work-space in the ArtsTwo Building, a space that
will be described below, and they regularly work in the QM Mile End Library, and the new Graduate
Centre. PGRs can apply for financial support through the School’s PGR Fund (with a budget of
£5000 per annum) and to the QM Doctoral College’s PGR Fund (with up to £2000 per person)
and to the Doctoral College Initiative Fund for research travel, events organisation and
attendance at conferences. PGRs are also involved in the School’s research management through
the Staff-Student Liaison Committee.

PGR Teaching Opportunities
All History PGRs are offered paid undergraduate teaching as part of their career training. Since
2016/17, HR practices related to TAs and Associate Lecturers have been harmonised with those
for permanent staff, with job profiles, a grade, and a reference point on the pay spine. From their
second year, in accordance with AHRC guidelines, PGRs can teach up to six hours a week. They
receive close and continuous training throughout the academic year from the Academic
Development Mentor, on class teaching, assessment, and student support. PGRs are also able to
qualify as Associate Teaching Fellows of the Higher Education Academy (HEA) through QM’s fully-


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
funded ADEPT training system. In 2016/17, the School introduced a prize for excellence in
teaching by Teaching Associates, and a prize for a PGR in the first year of teaching.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income
We are proud of our achievements in generating research funding as a measure of the vibrancy of
our historical research. Such success allows the School to grow in scale and impact, and enables
larger, collaborative research projects. Research grant expenditure in RAE2008 was £966k; in
REF2014, it climbed to £5.23m. In this period of assessment, we have generated £9.8m – a 87%
increase, and at £215,895 per FTE. Our grants have ranged from £18K to £1.7m, reflecting the
School’s strategy towards success at all levels of funding, with special attention to ECRs and their
first funding applications. The School continues to maintain a healthy submission rate
with 4 applications currently awaiting funder responses, and 7 other bids in development.

The School has been successful not only in the growth of research income, but also in its goal
since 2014 to diversify the sources of funding. Of the 56 awards in this cycle, those over £20k were
received from the AHRC, the British Academy, the ERC, the Humboldt Foundation, the
Leverhulme Trust, the Wellcome Trust, Georg-August University Göttingen, the Max Planck
Institute for the History of Science, and the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin. We have also attracted
ERC funding applications, with five Marie Curie Fellows joining the School (Finland, France,
Ireland, Italy, Spain) in the REF2021 cycle. This success has been achieved through investment of
expertise in the scrutiny of applications, a process overseen by our DRFs, assisted by experienced
colleagues and the RM. In research grant design and costings, the School is assisted by QM’s
Joint Research Management Office (JRMO) and the HSS Faculty RM.

Infrastructure in Support of Research
We endeavour to benefit from our location by using London’s institutions and contributing to them.
We regularly use the printed and manuscript resources of the British Library, the collections at
Senate House Library and other University of London (UoL) libraries. We also regularly research at
the Warburg Institute, the Wellcome Collection, the collections of the British Museum, the National
Archives, and the Imperial War Museum, The Maritime Museum, Lambeth Palace, and the Dr
Williams Library. The UoL School of Advanced Study is essential to our work, with the IHR a
platform for many of our activities (more than half of our staff convene seminars there). The QM
Library offers high quality electronic research tools to all researchers (such as Connected
Histories, British History Sources 1500-1900, British Newspapers 1600-1900, JISC Historic Books,
JISC MediaHub, JStor, Project MUSE, EEBO, etc.). It also supports Open Access to publications,
research theses, and other data through its institutional repository (“green” access) and by advising
on publisher options and managing the central budget for Gold access.

QM historians are located in the ArtsTwo Building, completed in 2012 at a cost of £24m. ArtsTwo
contains generous teaching spaces, a common room, three floors of academics’ offices, and an
open-plan Professional Services suite. This proximity enhances the School’s cohesion and
operational efficiency. ArtsTwo also houses the Centre for the Study of the History of Political
Thought and the Leo Baeck Institute. Like other Schools of our Faculty, our activities have been
facilitated by the new £39.5m Graduate Centre, opened in January 2017, with its Lecture Theatre,
seventeen seminar rooms, and extensive workspace for PGRs and PDRs. The Graduate Centre is
home to the Centre for the History of Emotions, with ideal spaces for workshops, conferences and
research seminars that we regularly use.

Operational Infrastructure
The School Operating Manager (Yates) is responsible for the operational features of our Research
Strategy, delivered by our RM; they are assisted by a Resource and Operations Manager (R.
Frampton), who administers funding applications and grants. Our E-Strategy Manager (Sparks)
supports research staff in digital technologies for research and research impact. The School’s
Professional Staff assist with the organisation of research-associated events, working closely with


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
academic staff on workshops, conferences, and Annual Lectures. The Centre for the History of the
Emotions, the Mile End Institute, and the Leo Baeck Institute each has its own administrative staff.

Resilience in Excellence
The School is aware of the effort required to maintain high levels of research activity, and ensures
through its workload model that staff contributions are recognised. The HoS and the DoR aim to
strike a balance between scholarly, organisational, and operational elements of research. They do
so through the Management, Research, and Graduate Studies Committees on which PGRs and
staff at all stages are represented, and where EDI considerations are always prominent. Priorities
are set by our Research Strategy, which was extensively revised following REF2014. That
Strategy, budgets, and planning for research investments are governed and monitored by the HSS
Faculty, and informed by the QM Research Strategy and planning procedures.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The School of History sees historical research as essentially collaborative and contributory to
academic and public life. Hence, it strives in all its activities to contribute to the research base and,
where possible, to the economy and society. It pursues these ambitions through public
engagement and research impact, through collaboration within QMUL and in London, by leading in
research and by sustaining and developing the historical profession.

•   Public engagement and research impact
    o Our public engagement through Research Centres and individuals has enhanced public
       access to issues of cultural, social and political significance to modern life through in-
       person and online events with national and international reach (as explained in section 1).
    o Our research impact activities provide archives and museums with opportunities to present
       new, high profile exhibitions (Asbridge: TNA and Lincoln; Emotions: Royal College of
       Nursing; Lowe: Lisbon and Porto). They also enable independent television production
       companies to win commissions from BBC television to produce major television series
       (Asbridge: 360Productions; Vickery: Matchlight). Moreover, they enable QMUL’s historians
       to participate in debates about public policy (Frampton, Hennessy, Saunders).

•   Collaboration across the Faculty
    o through co-supervision of PGRs – among them 6 holders of CDAs – with colleagues in
        SED, SPIR, Law, Geography and SLLF;
    o through applications for QM research schemes, such as the Distinguished Visiting
        Fellowship (whose activities range from public lectures to research-based workshops), and
        for external research funding for interdisciplinary projects.

•   Collaboration across the University of London and London Institutions
    o The School leads in the management, research mentoring, and teaching of the University
        of London Institute in Paris (ULIP);
    o Members of the School are involved in co-convening 37 IHR research seminars, and, in the
        current REF cycle, founded new IHR seminars: Poleg on the history of liturgy; ECR Walker
        on the history of architecture; ECR Waters on Black Britain; White on the U.S. Presidency;
        and ECR Yaqoob on Enlightenment research;
    o Colleagues in the History of Political Thought run an MA in collaboration with UCL,
        considered one of the finest in the world;
    o Since 2019, the School plays a full part in the LAHP consortium for supervision and training
        of PGRs;
    o The School is developing a relationship with Historic Royal Palaces (HRP), primarily for the
        supervision of PGRs.




                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Through Leadership in Research
       The School’s notable success in research funding is associated with its collaborative
       orientation in research, and its ability to deliver research impact:
        o The Centre for the History of the Emotions, the world leader in this field, interacts
           regularly through workshops and conferences, through the co-training of PGRs,
           support for PDRs and ECRs, and the exchange of established scholars with the
           Australian Research Council’s Centre for Excellence in the History of the Emotions;
        o The Centre for the Study of the History of Political Thought and CREMS regularly
           host visiting scholars (PGRs to senior scholars) and organise international workshops
           and conferences;
        o Members of the School have led long-term collaborative research during the current
           REF cycle. For example, as Co-I on a five-year ERC-funded project on archival
           practices in the sciences from antiquity to the present, with a core team of ten scholars
           and three international working groups, Mendelsohn has forged links for the School
           with world-leading research at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science in
           Berlin; similarly, Lee has secured joint AHRC and German Research Council (DFG)
           funding for a research project spread across Germany, Brazil and the UK.
        o The School has been home to five Marie Curie Fellows. During their time at the
           School, such Fellows organised international workshops and conferences associated
           with their research: Paolo Gervasi’s Mis-Shapings. The Art of Deformation and the
           History of Emotions (2018) and Elsa Marmursztejn’s Thinking With and Against the
           Jews: Christian Understandings and the Old Law (2019).

•   Sustaining and developing the historical profession:
       Collaboration and contribution to the research base also arise from the School’s role in
       national and international networks of scholarship. Our activities within the profession and
       in the public sphere are many and varied. The invitations to communicate our research or
       serve, listed below, are marks of esteem from our peers:
       o Members of the School have acted as Examiners of 134 PhD dissertations, of which
           23 were conducted for universities outside the UK.
       o They have delivered prestigious Lecture Series: Rubin (2017) and Vickery (2019) the
           Wiles Lectures at Queen’s University Belfast (each series published as a book, Rubin’s
           submitted for REF2021); Jones Douglas Southall Freeman Lectures, Richmond
           University, Virginia, USA, 2014; Lowe Gombrich Lectures 2019; Rubin Sherman
           Lectures, University of Manchester, 2014; Skinner Spinoza Lectures, University of
           Amsterdam, 2014, and the Agnes Cuming Lectures at University College Dublin, 2015.
       o Members of the School have been invited to deliver 83 Keynotes and Plenary Lectures.
       o Members of the School have delivered 38 Named Lectures: the H. G. Wells Science
           and Society Annual Lecture, University of Kent; C. L. Oakley Lecture in Medicine and
           the Arts, University of Leeds; Weinrebe Lecture, Wolfson College, Oxford; Theodore
           Bestermann Lecture, Modern Languages Faculty, Oxford; Gerald Aylmer Lecture,
           University of York; Sybil Campbell Lecture, British Federation of Women Graduates;
           Ann Hale Robbins Lecture, University of Rochester; James Field Willard Lecture,
           University of Colorado at Boulder; Creighton Lecture, IHR, London; John Burrow
           Memorial Lecture, University of Sussex; Director of the Neubauer Collegium’s Lecture,
           University of Chicago; Camps Lecture, Stanford; Weber Lecture, European University
           Institute; Balzan Lecture, Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei; Carl Schmitt Lecture,
           Humboldt University, Berlin; Annual David Clark Memorial Lecture, Cambridge; Mudd
           Center for Ethics Lecture, Washington and Lee University; Indian Economic and Social
           History Review Distinguished Lecture, University of Delhi; Master-Mind Lecture, British
           Academy; LSE Miliband Lecture, Grimm Lecture, University of Waterloo, Canada;
           Kossmans Lecture, University of Groningen; Annual Lecture, Jane Austen Society of
           North America, Louisville (KY); Wittreich Lecture, University of Louisville, Kentucky
           Patrons Lecture, British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies, Newcastle University;
           Jane Austen Society Annual Lecture, Chawton; Annual Lecture Jane Austen Society of
           Ireland; Ramsay Murray Annual Lecture, Selwyn College, Cambridge; Autcliffe Lecture
           in Cambridge; Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute Landmark Lecture; Avineri

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Lecture at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem; Royal Danish Academy Annual Lecture
           in the Humanities; the E. H. H. Green Lecture in Oxford, the Bristol Festival of Ideas
           Coleridge Lecture; the Istvan Hont Lecture, Cambridge; Lansdowne Lecture, University
           of Victoria. We are particularly proud of our ECRs: ECR Tisdall the Jacob Brunowski
           Science Award Lecture in London 2019; ECR Waters the Wiley Lecture (2019); and
           ECR Williams the Haydn Mason Lecture (2020), and the Françoise and Georges Seitz
           Lecture (2020).

•   Collaboration through presentation of research and agenda-setting lectures:
    o All members of the School regularly present their research at seminars and conferences. In
        particular, we encourage our ECRs to do so: 13 ECRs delivered 56 invited papers at
        research seminars outside London in this REF period.
    o Members of the School of have received prestigious competitive fellowships: Bourke
        Fellow of the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin 2014/15; Cohen Huntington Library Fellowship,
        2020, Newberry Library Fellowship 2020; Foster Parnell Fellow, Magdalene College,
        Cambridge, 2015/16, Hon. D. Litt. University College Dublin 2016, and Hon. D. Litt.
        University of the South, Sewanee (TN), 2019; Isabella Leverhulme Research Fellowship
        2013/14, Visiting Fellow, Instituto Ciencias Sociais, Lisbon, 2015, Visiting Professor,
        University of Calabria, 2015, Chercheur Résident, Casa Velasquez, Madrid, 2016, EURIAS
        Senior Fellowship, Madrid Institute for Advanced Studies, 2017–18; Jones Leverhulme
        Trust Major Research Fellowship, 2012–15, Douglas Southall Freeman Professor,
        University of Richmond, Virginia, 2014, Carl & Lily Pforzheimer Fellow, National Humanities
        Center, North Carolina, USA, 2015, Commander of the British Empire, 2014, Fellow, Institut
        d’études avancées, Paris, 2020-21; Lee AHRC-DFG Major Research Grant 2020-2023;
        Lowe Fernand Braudel Senior Research Fellow, European University Institute; McCarthy:
        British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship, 2017–18; Peart Society Fellowship at the Library
        Company of Philadelphia, 2014, Hugh Davis Graham Travel Award, Institute for Political
        History 2014, Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship, Virginia Historical Society 2015; Poleg Visiting
        Fellowship at the Stanford Humanities Center 2020/21; Rubin Fellow of the Academia
        Europaea 2019-, President of the Jewish Historical Society of England, 2020-; Saunders
        Visiting Researcher, St. John's College, Oxford, 2016–17, Academic Visitor, Oxford Centre
        for European History, 2017; Skinner Fellowship of the Neubauer Institute, University of
        Chicago, 2017, C Allan and Marjorie Braun Fellowship, 2017, Honorary Doctorate from the
        University of Copenhagen (2014), the University of Kent (2017), Global Fellow, University
        of Beijing (2017), and Uppsala University (2018), Weinstein Fellowship, University of
        California, Berkeley (2019); Vickery Fellowship at the Huntington Library, 2016–17 and
        2019, V Eleanor Searle Visiting Professorship, Caltech and Huntington Library, California,
        2017; Varouxakis Senior Research Fellow at the Lichtenberg-Kolleg, Georg-August-
        Universität Göttingen, 2017-2018; Von Hodenberg Humboldt Research Award, University of
        Halle, 2014/15; Wagner Marie Curie Global Fellowship, 2015/18; Ward AHRC Leadership
        Fellow 2019, Visiting Professor at the University of Nanterre, 2020.
    o Members of the School are editors and co-editors of historical journals: Ellison of Journal
        of Cold War History; Hayward of History of the Human Sciences; Hilton of Past and
        Present; McCarthy and Saunders of Twentieth-Century British History; Von Hodenberg of
        Journal of Modern History and German History. ECR Williams has co-founded, with
        colleagues from New York and Berne, with the School’s support, an online journal on
        eighteenth-century studies, which received the Association of Research Institutes in Art
        History (ARIAH) Digital Development Award for Art History Publishing in 2017;
    o Members of the School lend their expertise to research publications by serving on editorial
        boards of 52 journals;
    o Colleagues are active on editorial boards for book series: these include Oxford
        University Press’s Emotions in History, Palgrave Studies in Democratic Culture series, I
        Tatti monograph series on Italian Renaissance History for Harvard University Pres, IB
        Tauris’ Early and Medieval World, CUP’s Texts in the History of Political Thought, OUP’s
        Clarendon Edition of the Works of Thomas Hobbes, MacMillan Studies in European History
        series, Mill Marginalia Online, Brepols’ Medieval Women - Texts and Contexts, Prague
        Medieval Studies (PRAMS), Brill’s Clio Medica;

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   o   QM historians have served on Research Councils, International Committees, University
       Advisory Boards, Prize Panels, and National Professional Bodies, as members,
       judges and chairs: these include British International History Group; the Ewart-Biggs
       Memorial Prize; the Yeats Summer School Academic Board; the Board of the Humanities
       Festival of Chicago; the Elizabeth Longford Prize for Historical Biography; the Advisory
       Board of Institute of Irish Studies, the Intellectual History panel of the Finnish Academy; the
       University of Liverpool; the British Psychological Society; the AHRC Advisory Board; as
       Honorary Vice-President, Royal Historical Society; Investigator’s Committee, Wellcome
       Trust; Conseil Scientifique of the Fondation Charles de Gaulle; Conseil Scientifique des
       Archives de la Fondation nationale des Sciences Politiques; Comité des Archives Ministère
       de la Défense; Comité pour les Archives de la Deuxième Guerre Mondiale, Archives
       Nationales; the British Association of Nineteenth Century Historians (BRANCH); History
       Today/Longmans Prize in History, the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton; Zentrum für
       Zeitgeschichtliche Forschung; Fraenkel Prize Jury, Wiener Library, H-Soz-u-Kult Book Jury;
       the Bentham Committee, University College London, and the International Advisory Board
       of Palacky University, Olomouc.
   o   Members of the School have become Fellows and Corresponding Members of learned
       societies in the UK and abroad: British Academy, Royal Historical Society, Geographic
       Society, Irish Academy, Society of Antiquaries, Ecclesiastical History Society, London
       Society of Medieval Studies, American Association for the History of Medicine, the History
       of Science Society, Society for the Social History of Medicine, American Political Science
       Association, American Historical Association, Accademia Senese degli Intronati, Society for
       Renaissance Studies, the African Studies Association of the United Kingdom,the
       Bibliographical Society, German Studies Association, Verband Deutscher Historiker und
       Historikerinnen, Royal Society of Literature, Association for the Study of Modern Italy,
       Società Italiana per lo Studio della Storia Contemporanea, Society for the History of
       Emotions, the International Society for Utilitarian Studies.
   o   Research by members of the School has inspired dedicated events: Colloquium on
       Bourke’s Empire & Revolution at Yale (2015); roundtables on Isabella’s Mediterranean
       Diasporas at the Paris Institute of Advanced Studies, the University of Pavia, and the
       University of Athens, and a Workshop at the Università Ca’ Foscari, Venice (2016). A
       Conference took place in Oxford to mark the 20th anniversary of publication of Jones’s co-
       authored The Medical World of Early Modern France (2017); in 2020 ECR Maggor’s
       research was the subject of a seminar at the Paris School of Economics in Paris, led by
       Thomas Piketty; a Colloquium on Skinner’s Forensic Shakespeare took place at the
       Institute for Advanced Legal Studies, London (2015), and on Liberty before Liberalism at
       the Netherlandish Institute of Advanced Study (2017); Symposium on Stedman Jones’s
       Karl Marx at the University of Cambridge (2017) and at QM (2017); a panel about his work
       at the North Atlantic Conference on British Studies, at Denver in 2017.
   o   Research produced by colleagues has been awarded prizes: Bourke Joint Winner of the
       István Hont Memorial Book Prize in Intellectual History for Empire & Revolution, 2016;
       Cohen Grier Prize for best article published in Winterthur Portfolio 2015; Dixon British
       Podcast Award in two categories for Sound of Anger 2020; Foster British Academy Medal
       for Transforming of an Area of Knowledge 2015 (for Vivid Faces), and the American
       Historical Association Forkosch Prize 2016 (for Vivid Faces); Jackson Duff Cooper Prize for
       Non Fiction 2018, American Library in Paris Prize for Best Book in English about France
       2018, Prix du Jury du Prix Géopolitique, 2020; Lowe Almirante Teixiera da Mota Prize from
       the Academia de Marinha (Naval Academy), Lisbon 2016, for The Global City; and
       honourable mention by the Eleanor Tufts Award panel 2017; ECR Maggor Cromwell Prize
       for best article published by an ECR in U.S. Legal History 2019; Rapoport Bi-annual Middle
       East Medievalists book prize; Saunders American Historical Association Forkosch Prize
       2019; Vickery BAFTA Shortlist for History Programme of the Year for “A Story of Women
       and Art” 2014; EMMY Shortlist for ‘Messiah at the Foundling Hospital’ 2015; ECR Williams
       British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies (BSECS) Digital Resources Award 2021;
       ECR Willimott honourable mention by the panel of the W. Bruce Lincoln Prize of the
       Association of Slavic, Eastern European and Eurasian Studies, 2018.


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   o   Colleagues have remained active during this cycle in the following Academies to which
       they were elected before 2014: Academia Europaea (Foster, Skinner), Accademia
       Nazionale dei Lincei (Skinner), American Academy of Arts and Sciences (Skinner),
       American Philosophical Society (Skinner); British Academy (Foster, Hennessy, Jackson,
       Jones, Skinner, Stedman Jones); Learned Society of Wales (Jones); Medieval Academy of
       America (Rubin), Ordre des Palmes Académiques (Jones, Officier, Skinner, Officier);
       Jackson Commandeur; Royal Irish Academy (Skinner), Österreichische Akademie der
       Wissenschaften (Skinner), The Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters (Skinner).




                                                                                    Page 18
