Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: B-08 Chemistry


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


The goal of the Department of Chemistry in Sheffield is to discover new chemistry for a
better life and a sustainable future. Our research addresses fundamental problems, and our
outward-facing ethos ensures that we tackle important challenges at the interfaces of chemistry
with biology, healthcare, physics, and engineering. The University of Sheffield provides an
outstanding environment for such interdisciplinary research, and much of our research work is
closely aligned with the Faculty of Science priorities in ‘Nanoscience and Nanotechnology’, ‘The
Process of Life’, and ‘A Sustainable World’.

We aim to:

   •   Conduct world-class research at the forefront of chemical knowledge.

   •   Build strong collaborations at the boundaries between chemistry and other disciplines,
       locally, nationally, and internationally.

   •   Achieve impact through translation of knowledge into industrial applications, improvements
       in healthcare, quality of life, and public understanding of science.

   •   Embrace equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) and hence enable every member of the
       department to fulfil their potential.

In the assessment period, we have built on our strong performance in REF2014:

   •   World-class research: Since 2014, Armes has been elected FRS and various staff have
       won RSC prizes and awards, e.g. Armes: Interdisciplinary Prize, Harrity: Bader Award,
       Staniland: Harrison-Meldola Medal, and Weinstein: Chemical Dynamics Award. Our staff
       have contributed as PI or Co-I to 26 grants with award values of >£1M e.g. Leggett £7.3M
       ‘Molecular Photonic Breadboards’ (EPSRC).

   •   Strong collaborations: The Polymer Centre led by Armes remains a powerhouse for
       interdisciplinary work involving >50 individual research groups in Sheffield. Additionally,
       Ryan has established the philanthropically funded Grantham Centre for Sustainable
       Futures, (£8.7M). Weinstein established the Porter Lab as a global force in ultra-fast
       spectroscopy, with partners across four continents, including the USA, Germany,
       Switzerland, Japan, Australia and India. Craggs played a leading role in an international
       consortium of 20 groups that defined data standards for single-molecule FRET
       measurements. Leggett led an EPSRC Grand Challenge Network that drafted a ‘Roadmap
       for Biological Physics’ which EPSRC used as the foundation for its strategy in soft matter
       research.

   •   Impact: The Grantham Centre drives work with international impact ranging from the
       manufacture of sustainable plastics to developing hydroponic farming systems within
       refugee camps in the Middle East. Ryan has served on the science advisory boards of
       Unilever and SCJohnson; the appointment of Slark on an EPSRC Manufacturing



                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Fellowship expands our industry-facing activities; and the award of a prestigious DSM
        Materials Science Award to Armes reflects his sustained world-class impact.

    •   Embracing EDI: In 2015 we were awarded an Athena SWAN Silver Award, which was
        retained in 2020. Six staff have been promoted to personal chairs since 2014, and half of
        our female staff are now professors, reflecting our continuing determination to foster EDI
        among staff at all levels.

We have appointed 10 new staff in the assessment period to realise our research goals and
to lay the foundation for sustained excellence and growth beyond 2021. The University has
invested to develop our staff profile, and also to replace Hunter and Ward (now at Cambridge and
Warwick, respectively) and retiring staff (e.g. Pickup). Two appointments (Foster and Slark) were
made following award of competitive fellowships. Our recent appointees have published
outstanding papers and achieved substantial success in grant capture. The combined
achievements of these new staff, together with the continued success of established staff, provide
a strong foundation for continued strength in Chemistry at Sheffield.

We have made multi-million-pound investments in major infrastructure to facilitate world-
class research, including the Porter Lab (£2.2M), new equipment to support chemical analysis
(£2.2M), and state-of-the-art instrumentation for small-angle X-ray scattering and surface analysis
(total £2.5M). These developments will enhance an already vibrant, forward-looking department,
and provide a foundation for future success.




1.1 Research structure

Since REF2014, we have refocussed our research organisation. The five new research groups
(details §1.2) provide support and mentoring for staff with cognate research expertise. However,
many staff collaborate widely within the Department, with academic partners in Sheffield and
external to the University, with industry and with other external organisations (see §4).
Consequently, the Department also supports four strong cross-cutting research themes (§1.4):
‘nanomaterials’, ‘the chemistry-biology interface’, ‘light-matter interactions’ and ‘sustainability’ (for

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
examples, see Box 1), reflecting the success of our 2014 strategy for interdisciplinary research.
For example, work at the chemistry/biology interface (previously focussed on a single group) has
now expanded to involve all research groups.

Each group has a head, assisted by a junior member of staff as deputy head, to facilitate
succession planning. While the group heads are appointed for their research leadership, they also
provide line management to group members across all areas of their work (including teaching and
leadership) as part of the Department’s new matrix management strategy. Group heads form part
of the Research Committee, which advises the Departmental Executive on the strategic direction of
research in the Department and also ensures that research conforms to the University's Policy on
Good Research and Innovation Principles.

1.2 Research objectives

Our research groups reflect our core areas of disciplinary excellence and underpin our four cross-
cutting interdisciplinary themes (§1.4). The strategic recruitment of 10 staff since REF2014 has
both deepened our core expertise and further enhanced our strong cross-cutting interdisciplinary
themes.

Following REF2014, we prioritised research at the chemistry-biology interface. Consequently,
biological problems now motivate an increasing proportion of our activities across all research
groups. In particular, we have created two foci of research excellence by differentiating between
biophysical chemistry (including spectroscopy, biophysics and energy transfer in biological
systems) and classical chemical biology (which is combined with organic chemistry to create a
more tightly focused unit).

Biophysical and Photophysical Chemistry (Head: Weinstein)

To drive success in this new group we established the Porter Lab (§1.4) under the leadership of
Weinstein, who uses ultra-fast methods to investigate the dynamics of electron and energy transfer
processes (Science 2014). To further build strength we appointed Chauvet, a spectroscopist with
broad interests in ultra-fast techniques (Science 2017) and their application to biological systems
(NE/T010924/1, NERC, £794k with Martsinovich), complementing the work of Hippler. Chauvet's
work on energy transfer in photosynthesis (EPSRC EP/R045305/1) complements that of Leggett
(Nano Lett. 2016, programme grant EP/I012060). Craggs was appointed to establish expertise in
single-molecule Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) methods for single-molecule analysis.
He has played a leading role in a major international multi-laboratory study (Nat. Methods 2018,
§1.4). In the next five years, we will build on this critical mass by developing new programmes in
polaritonics (with JClark, Lidzey and Tartakovskii, Physics) and quantum optics (programme grant
EP/T012455 2020-25, Leggett).

Organic Chemistry and Chemical Biology (Head: D.Williams)

This aim of this group is to drive work at the interface between organic synthesis and biological
chemistry. Partridge was appointed to build strength in catalysis and to complement existing
strength in synthetic chemistry (Coldham, Harrity). Harrity drives the application of synthetic
methodology to the design of cancer drugs with Skerry, Oncology (Wellcome, £2.95M; £2M follow-
up grant), while Chen (Nat. Chem. Bio. 2014) focuses on drug discovery, and Jones collaborates
with Foster (Biology) on anti-microbial resistance (e.g. £1M MRC grant). N.Williams leads in
physical organic chemistry, exploring the fundamentals of non-covalent interactions (Nat. Chem.
2016 and a £2.2m EPSRC grant with Hunter, Cambridge and Leggett), and signal transduction in
membrane systems (Nat. Chem. 2017 and JACS 2017). D.Williams studies nucleic acid chemistry,

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including a particularly fruitful collaboration with Patel (LMB, Cambridge) on alcohol-induced cross-
link repair (Nature 2020). In the next five years we will expand work on drug discovery (e.g. spin-
out Modulus Oncology, Harrity §1.4) while continuing to invest in the fundamentals of synthetic and
biological chemistry.

Polymers (Head: Ryan)

This established area of international excellence was further strengthened by the appointment of
Spain (drug delivery, biomaterials), complementing the work of Parnell (biologically-inspired
materials). To build on Ryan's leadership in sustainability (§1.4) we appointed Dawson
(microporous polymers for energy applications) and Slark (EPSRC Industry Fellow, £1.5M). Armes'
continued leadership in polymer chemistry has been recognised by his election to FRS (2014), his
ERC Advanced Investigator grant (2013-2018), and his current EPSRC Particle Technology
Fellowship. Over this assessment period he has established polymerisation-induced self-assembly
(PISA) as an important field within polymer science (e.g. JACS 2017, 2019). This work, in
collaboration with Mykhaylyk and Ryan, has been underpinned by major investment in SAXS
instrumentation (§3.2). The Polymer Centre (Director Armes), is central to our strategy to maintain
strength in interdisciplinary research, with >50 members across the Faculties of Science,
Engineering, Medicine, Dentistry & Health, and the Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre, and
research ranging from the development of new chemistry, theories and measurement techniques
through to applications in healthcare, energy, transport and consumer goods. The Polymer Centre
remains important in our planning for the next five years, when we will prioritise further expansion
of work on sustainability and continued enhancement of links with manufacturing.

Supramolecular Chemistry and Materials (Head: Thomas)

We appointed Foster to work on metal-organic nanosheets (MONs), broadening cross-cutting work
in nanomaterials (§1.4) and complementing existing strength in metal-organic framework materials
(MOFs), e.g. Brammer, who studies the fundamental chemistry of MOFs (Nat. Chem. 2017) and
intermolecular interactions (Chem. Sci. 2017). Staniland was appointed to further strengthen work
on nanomaterials, bringing expertise in biologically-inspired design (PNAS 2014) and synthetic
biology (Nat. Commun. 2019). Thomas designs functional molecular architectures that bind to
biomolecules, with wide-ranging applications from cell biology (JACS 2017) to treating
antimicrobial resistance (ACS Nano 2019). Work on inorganic materials is focussed on applications
in catalysis (Conte and Haynes, Angew. Chem. 2018) and energetic materials (Portius). In the next
five years, we will expand work on nanomaterials and the fundamental chemistry of MOFs (multi-
centre EPSRC grant 2020-23, Brammer), and develop translational pathways for Thomas's work
on antimicrobial resistance with recent seed-funding for a spin-out.

Theory (Head: Meijer)

Following the retirement of Pickup, we expanded the group by appointing Martsinovich and Hill.
Martsinovich studies materials and interfaces and enhances interdisciplinary work on sustainability
and light-matter interactions (§1.4); with Chauvet and colleagues in bioscience she recently
received a £794k NERC grant to investigate the dynamics of phosphates in soil. Hill addresses the
fundamentals of chemical theory, particularly electronic structure. Currently, he is developing
machine-learning methods for basis set development for many-atom systems (EPSRC
EP/T027134). Fowler also focuses on fundamental problems, in particular graph theoretical
approaches to conductivity and aromaticity (JCP 2015). Clarke uses theory to study polymer
materials. Meijer studies chemical dynamics (JACS 2017), develops theory to support ultra-fast
spectroscopy with Weinstein (Nat. Chem. 2017) and studies light-matter interactions. In the next


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
five years we aim to expand theory further to exploit opportunities for new work at the chemistry-
biology interface.

1.3 Impact

Strategy: Building on our REF2014 strategy to maximise societal relevance, we aim to embed
non-academic impact in our projects. At the project formulation stage, the Departmental Impact
Lead and the Faculty knowledge exchange (KE) team support academic staff in identifying
partners, to ensure that an impact strategy is embedded from the start. Key stakeholders are
consulted to maximise explicit relevance to non-academic agendas. Once potentially impactful
research has been completed, we support staff to disseminate results to non-academic audiences
to enhance its impact. For example, we host dissemination events, and support staff involvement
as advisors to SMEs, and secondment to companies (e.g. Coldham, Liverpool Chirochem). The
departmental Workload Allocation Model is used to relieve staff of teaching and administrative
commitments to pursue impact-related activities (e.g. Ryan has a 50% appointment to Grantham
Centre).

Industrial impact: Central to this strategy is the Polymer Centre (§1.4). Both Armes and Ryan
have extensive portfolios of industrial collaborations and long track records of driving policy change
more broadly. For example, Ryan has served on the Science Advisory boards of Unilever,
SCJohnson and STFC. Moreover, his EPSRC Prosperity Partnership with AkzoNobel is an
excellent example of translating fundamental research into economic impact (detail §3.1(b)).
Armes was awarded the biennial €50,000 DSM Materials Science Award in 2016, the only UK
scientist to have received this prize. He is involved in two of our three impact case studies. Our
Chemistry with a Year in Industry degree has further enhanced interactions with industrial partners,
evidenced by our Inkjet Pigments impact case study, which was initiated following an
undergraduate student placement. The student was shortlisted for a 2015 National Undergraduate
Employability award after nomination by her company employer.

Since 2014, our work with industrial partners has grown significantly. In addition to major joint
research grants, CASE-type PhD studentships are a particularly important means to build and
maintain strong industrial links. For example, Armes leads the Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT)
in ‘Polymers, Soft Matter and Colloids’ that supports 50 CASE-type research projects, each with at
least £40k of industrial cash per studentship. The CDT has facilitated ECR engagement with
multiple industrial partners, including Dawson, Mykhaylyk, Spain, Foster, and Partridge.
Furthermore, the Faculty provides up to 50% of the cost of joint studentships with an industrial
partner.

SMEs: We work with a wide range of external partners and we strategically target different types of
stakeholder as projects develop along an impact pipeline. The Faculty has a team dedicated to
supporting technology transfer, including business development, and supports development of
collaborative academic research through KE grants co-funded by industry. For example, Craggs
acted as a project partner for Thorlabs and Cairn Research; Iraqi worked with local SME Ossila on
a KE project focused on the scale-up of nanomaterials production; Thomas has worked with
Lumicks plc to develop probes for single-molecule imaging of nucleic acids; and Weinstein has
worked with StoliCatalysts as part of a KE project funded by the University. Additionally, staff are
encouraged to exploit opportunities to spin companies out and to work with SMEs. Redbrick
Molecular was established by Jones with a University investment of £225k. It provides compound
libraries for the drug discovery industry. Redbrick has sponsored two PhD studentships and two
EPSRC grants, and has provided placements for three Sheffield PhD students and one PDRA in
the assessment period. Coldham has commercialised his compounds with Liverpool Chirochem,

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Harrity is spinning out a company based on his collaboration with Skerry (§4.2). During this
assessment period we have received 20 Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) awards worth £486k,
providing a foundation for maximising impact over the next five years.




                                                           Kirsty Smitten PhD 2016 – 2020
                                                         Forbes 30 under 30 Europe list 2020
                                                        Nova Prize winner for Chemistry 2018


                                                 Smitten et al, ACS Nano 2019, 13, 5, 5133.
        Box 2. Work by Kirsty Smitten, supervised by Jim Thomas, yielded potent new
        antimicrobial leads. With University knowledge exchange funding, a patent has been
        filed (PCT/GB2020/050875) and Kirsty is now establishing a start-up company to
        commercialise the work.

Impact on society: Important societal challenges motivate much of our research, and in some
cases have led to international impact. For example, Thomas led a joint project with Foster
(Molecular Biology and Biotechnology department, Sheffield) that uncovered promising new
antimicrobial agents. The work received widespread media coverage (Box 2), with a CBS camera
crew visiting Sheffield to make a short film (broadcast 05/07/19).

Through his Grantham Centre work, Ryan has had widespread impact both locally and
                                                   66
internationally (see §4.2). He is a regular guest on   words
                                                     BBC  radio and has collaborated extensively on
environmental issues with artists of national renown, such as Helen Storey and Simon Armitage.
His collaboration with Armitage ‘In Praise of Air’ was widely reported in the national media.

1.4. Interdisciplinary research

Strategy: Much of the most exciting research in chemistry now lies at the intersection with other
disciplines. Our research groups (§1.2) provide the foundation that underpins our four cross-
cutting interdisciplinary themes, all of which have been supported strategically by recent
appointments. Our recruitment strategy has targeted the appointment of early-career researchers
(ECRs) who are expected to lead our expansion of interdisciplinary research (§1.2). The following
are examples of particularly impactful activities in the assessment period:

   •   Nanomaterials was identified as a key theme in 2014; Staniland (biologically-inspired
       nanomaterials) and Foster (2D materials) were appointed to complement the expertise of
       Armes and Leggett (Faculty research theme lead in nanomaterials), and have established

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       well-funded research programmes. Additionally, we have significantly expanded work in two
       areas (chemistry-biology interface and light-matter interactions) and developed a new
       cross-cutting priority in sustainability.

   •   The Chemistry-Biology Interface: Many members of the department enjoy fruitful
       collaborations with bioscientists. Craggs, Thomas and D.Williams are active in the Sheffield
       Institute for Nucleic Acids, which investigates the role of nucleic acids in health and
       disease. Similarly, Jones, Weinstein, Thomas and Craggs make important contributions to
       the £7M Imagine:Life initiative, led by Hobbs (Physics) which focuses on the development
       of imaging technologies in the life sciences. Leggett established (with Hobbs) and led
       (2013-2016) the EPSRC Grand Challenge Network on Understanding the Physics of Life.
       He drafted a ‘Roadmap for Biological Physics’ for EPSRC that shaped its priorities in
       biological physics and soft matter.

   •   Light-Matter Interactions: The Porter Lab was established with a £1.36M EPSRC grant
       plus £0.8M institutional investment to create a world-class facility for interdisciplinary
       research in light-matter interactions. The appointments of Chauvet (ultra-fast spectroscopy
       of biomolecules) and Craggs (single-molecule measurements on biomolecules) significantly
       broadened our activities at the chemistry-biology interface, complementing Leggett’s work
       on nanophotonics and nanofabrication and the theory work of Martsinovich (materials and
       interfaces) and Meijer (dynamics). We have built strong collaborations with other Sheffield
       departments including Physics (e.g. Cadby, J. Clark, Hobbs, Tartakovski), Biology (Foster,
       Hunter, Kelly, Smyth, Williamson) and Medicine (Bryant, Lambert).

   •   Sustainability: The return of Ryan to academic research after serving as Faculty Vice-
       President was the catalyst for a major new initiative in sustainability. This underpinning
       theme now runs through every research group. He directs the Grantham Centre, which
       supports doctoral training (§1.4) and is an important nexus for interdisciplinary collaboration
       across the University in sustainability. He has received multiple large research grants
       focused on the sustainable production of polymeric materials (§4.2). Ryan’s ‘Circular
       Economy’ EPSRC grant (Plastics: Redefining Single-Use; £1.01M) combines the skills and
       capabilities of 37 social scientists, scientists, engineers, medics, and arts and humanities
       academics (including Armes, Slark, Spain and Mykhaylyk in Chemistry) and stakeholders
       drawn from industry, policy and the third sector, to address specific needs for the plastics
       supply chain. The appointment of Slark via a £1.5M EPSRC Professorial Fellowship further
       boosts our activity in sustainability, which also includes recent appointees Chauvet, Conte,
       Dawson, Foster, Martsinovich, Spain, and Staniland.

Interdisciplinary research training is greatly enhanced by our leading roles in interdisciplinary
CDTs. Armes leads the £7.1M EPSRC CDT in Polymers, Soft Matter and Colloids, CDT-PSC
(§2.2). Its 50 PhD students are spread across 27 research groups and are co-supervised by 19
supervisors. Every student spends six months on secondment working on-site with their industrial
sponsor: this enriches the interdisciplinary nature of their scientific training while providing real-
world work experience. Leggett was the Sheffield lead academic for the CDT in Molecular-Scale
Engineering (2011-2018), which embedded interdisciplinary research training by requiring every
PhD student to have at least two supervisors from different disciplines. The Grantham Centre
trains its student cohorts using the same CDT model. Four staff have also been involved in the
Sheffield E-Futures CDT. Numerical data on PGR students are provided in §2.2.

Large awards for interdisciplinary research: Various large grants awarded to members of the
Department have supported our interdisciplinary research. For example, Chauvet and Martsinovich


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
were awarded £794k (NE/T010924/1, NERC) for an ambitious collaborative project with Cameron
(Animal and Plant Sciences) and NSF-funded US collaborators (Kansas, Texas and Alabama)
which aims to develop new methods for measuring and modelling the distribution of phosphate in
soils. Leggett has led two EPSRC Programme Grants (Low-Dimensional Chemistry, £4M, 2011-16
and Molecular Photonic Breadboards, £7.3M, 2020-25), each involving collaboration at the
biology/chemistry/physics interface. Meijer collaborated with Blakey (Mechanical Engineering, now
at Birmingham) on three EU grants (CleanSKY2 programme) focused on auto-oxidation of jet fuels
(total £1.7M) with Rolls-Royce as an industrial partner.

During the next five years we will:

   •   prioritise developing proposals for large interdisciplinary collaborative projects;

   •   consolidate strong work at the chemistry/biology interface by maintaining strong
       collaborations with life scientists;

   •   enhance work on nanomaterials and light-matter interactions by building new collaborations
       with the Department of Physics in photonics and nanomaterials (e.g. £1.7M near-field
       spectroscopy award with Tartakovskii, 2020-24; Leggett Programme Grant 2020-25) and by
       expanding the international reach of the Porter Lab.

   •   build on our strong portfolio of research on sustainability, by adding work on inorganic
       materials and solar energy capture;

   •   expand theory work on molecular modelling of biological and polymeric materials.

1.5. Open research

Consistent with best practice in the chemical sciences, metadata are typically published as
extensive supporting information files accompanying every publication. Staff are encouraged to
archive data using ORDA, the University’s data repository. Structural data are submitted to
crystallographic (e.g. Cambridge Structural Database) and NMR structural databases. To ensure
maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose Research Online,
our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). This is our preferred route, ensuring
equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish outputs in fully
OA journals or hybrid where required for funder compliance. In addition, staff increasingly submit
papers to preprint services such as ChemRxiv, bioRxiv or arXiv.

We have contributed to driving forward the open research agenda. For example, Jones
participated in an RSC initiative to define standards for metadata in synthetic chemistry. Hill has
created an open repository for the basis sets he has developed, which are used in high-accuracy
calculations on heavy elements in many types of quantum chemical calculations. This repository
gets 2,000-4,000 hits per month.

Members of the department are also extending the open research ethos to experimental studies.
For example, Craggs has developed an open-source single-molecule FRET (smFRET) resource
that aims to democratise measurements, by providing designs, software and a list of all the
components for a fully-functional, low-cost system. A key challenge in smFRET has been to
establish data standards to enable the effective sharing of data between different laboratories.
Craggs played a leading role in a consortium of 20 partners from Europe and North America that
developed a unified, straightforward method to solve this problem (Nature Methods). The
consortium proposed experimental and computational procedures for converting FRET efficiencies


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
into accurate distances and provided a quantitative assessment of the reproducibility of intensity-
based smFRET measurements.

1.6 Research integrity

The University’s Good Research and Innovation Practices (GRIP) policy governs research in the
Department. All staff and all postgraduate research students (PGRs) receive mandatory training in
research ethics and integrity. Maintaining strong integrity underpins our aim to conduct impactful
research that is both transparent and reproducible.

Compliance is overseen by our Research Committee. All staff and PGRs are provided with training
via away-days, staff meetings and targeted training for specific staff groups. As well as formal
training, we aim to create an open and honest environment in which researchers feel confident to
challenge inappropriate research approaches. Our Research Groups organise seminars that
provide opportunities to debate and challenge research. Although most research in chemistry does
not require prior ethical approval, the Department has an Ethics Lead (Burnham) who organises
proposal reviews as required by trained ethics reviewers.




 2. People


Our staffing and recruitment strategy aims to ensure that we have the breadth, depth and diversity
of research excellence needed to achieve our research goals (§1).

2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development

Staff development strategy

An important goal in the current REF cycle was to develop a succession plan to maintain a well-
balanced department with a sustainable future. To achieve this we appointed nine ECRs across all
research groups. All have made excellent starts towards establishing their independent research
programmes. Additionally, we appointed EPSRC Industry Fellow Slark to enhance our
engagement with industry.

To enable these promising researchers to develop fully as research leaders, we implemented
various measures, including a mentoring scheme and the creation of the role of Deputy Research
Group Head to provide them with experience of leadership. To further balance our age profile, we
will recruit mid-career staff across our research groups during the next five years to retain strong
research leadership and bridge the gap between established senior staff and emerging ECR
leaders.

All staff undertake an annual review with their line manager (research group head) in which they
discuss their contribution over the preceding year and set agreed objectives for the following year,
identifying training and development needs where applicable. The result is a portfolio of
achievements that align with both Departmental and personal goals, enabling staff to maximise
opportunities for promotion under the University’s new Academic Career Pathways framework (see
REF5a). In addition, staff have longer-term individual research planning meetings with their
research group heads that enable them to discuss their three-year plans for funding, writing, and
impact activities that can be signposted for relevant institutional and external support.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Department supports study leave to allow staff relief from teaching and other responsibilities
for one semester. For example, Fowler used study leave in 2019 to research ‘Coulson’s lost
theorem’ in The Bodleian Library. In 2019, the Faculty introduced an enhanced study leave
programme, under which staff are eligible for study leave every seventh semester.

Support for ECRs

We strive to uphold the principles and implement the responsibilities of the 2019 Researcher
Development Concordat.

Postdoctoral researchers are supported by the extensive and outstanding (Times Higher
Education Awards 2014) training and development programme, Think Ahead, which offers
workshops, seminars, mentoring, networking opportunities, online resources, and job preparation
sessions. Researchers benefit from a bespoke annual review tailored to their specific needs and
receive peer support through the Chemistry Researchers Society (CRS, established in 2013, run
by PDRAs and funded by the Department), which organises monthly coffee mornings and
lunchtime or evening seminars and provides representation on departmental committees.

Transition to tenured posts. We recognise that precarity is a concern for our postdoctoral
researchers, and aim to appoint them on open-ended contracts wherever possible. For example,
Mykhaylyk (Box 3) was promoted to Senior Research Fellow following his successful EPSRC
grant application for a world-class SAXS facility with Armes. We also support ECRs applying for
independent research fellowships. The
Departmental Executive, in consultation with the
Research Committee, evaluates their fit to
departmental research strategy and EDI
considerations, based on CV, research plans
and a departmental visit and seminar. Where
reviews are positive, candidates receive support
and advice from relevant senior staff in
preparing their fellowship application.

Successful applicants are promised a               Box 3. Supporting researcher development:
permanent post, subject to satisfactory            Sasha Mykhaylyk
progress. For example, Foster was initially        2004 - 2011 Research Associate
appointed as a Ramsay Memorial Fellow during       2012 – 2016 Research Fellow (permanent)
the assessment period before transferring to a     2017 – 2020 Senior Research Fellow
Vice-Chancellor’s Fellowship via a highly          (equivalent to Senior Lecturer)
competitive cross-institutional process. He took   Sasha currently manages the £2M Soft
up a lectureship in 2019 and is making excellent   Matter Analytical Lab (§3.2).
progress towards completion of probation.

Academic staff appointed at lecturer level complete a three-year probationary period. In this
supportive process, the probationer is assigned a mentor, who they meet monthly to review
progress. Probationers have reduced teaching loads to enable them to establish independent
research programmes. Each is provided with a start-up grant and a PhD studentship, and the CDT-
PSC and the Grantham Centre have both supported additional studentships for ECR staff in the
                                                                           48 Words
Department. Two years ago, we introduced an additional mentoring programme to support ECR
staff after completion of probation. This will be extended to all staff from 2021.




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2. Research students

PGRs are a vital part of a research-active chemistry department. Thus, we made support for PGRs
a strategic priority for the current assessment period. Relative to the REF2014 period (average
103.8 FTE), our PGR annual enrolment for REF2021 (average 119.4 FTE) has increased by 15%.

Our PGRs are supported by a diversity of sources. In the assessment period, the CDT-PSC has
had the single largest impact on student numbers (50, with 36 in Chemistry), although we have
additionally benefitted from students funded by the Grantham Centre and by enhanced success in
securing studentships funded by overseas organisations and governments. Studentships have also
been funded by EPSRC, BBSRC, EU, industry, and overseas governments (including 155 students
from 29 different countries in the REF period). The University’s partnership with the A*STAR
institutes in Singapore has created further additional studentships, and has facilitated international
collaboration with these prestigious research institutes.

Diversity among PGRs: In this assessment period we have implemented various methods to
recruit a more diverse PGR cohort. We made a concerted effort to review and improve our
recruitment materials and methods (e.g. using Textio to debias the wording of advertisements).
Mandatory training is provided for all staff who chair interview panels, while all staff must complete
unconscious bias training to ensure they are aware of the potential for bias and discrimination in
selection processes. Illustrating the impact of these measures, the fraction of female PGR students
has increased steadily from 33% in 2012/13 to 43% in 2018/19.

Quality of training and supervision: Our goal is to provide students with a broad training in
relevant transferable skills in addition to the in-depth training that they receive in their research
specialism. New academic staff receive training in PGR supervision and support through
mentoring. Students receive compulsory training covering e.g. health and safety, research ethics,
information technology, and take a range of advanced courses tailored to meet their needs as
determined through an annual training needs analysis undertaken with their supervisor. All PGRs
are assigned an independent advisor, who checks their progress annually, provides pastoral
support and discusses career progression with them.

During the assessment period, 57 PGR students have additionally benefited from the
comprehensive advanced skills training provided by the CDT in Molecular-Scale Engineering, the
CDT-PSC and the Grantham Centre.

A number of our students have won external prizes (e.g. Kirsty Smitten, Box 2). The Department
celebrates the achievements of its PGR students through the award of our annual Turner Prizes:
up to four prizes are awarded in recognition of students whose theses are judged to be outstanding
by their examiners.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




          Box 4. Some of the attendees at our 2020 Global Women’s Breakfast.

2.3. Equality, diversity, and inclusion

Over this assessment period a central goal has been to create a more diverse department by
providing more effective support for under-represented groups. Our EDI Director is a member of
                                             12 words
the Executive, thus putting EDI considerations at the heart of departmental decision-making and
driving policies and activities to support engagement by diverse groups of staff and students (e.g.
Box 4). The success of our strategy is exemplified by Athena SWAN Silver Awards in 2015 and
2020, which built on the Bronze Award in 2013. Sheffield’s commitment to eliminating
discrimination and promoting diversity includes strong and active support for our LGBTQ+ staff and
students, as evidenced by our ranking of 23 in the Stonewall Top 100 Employers 2019 survey. The
University has launched an action plan with the aim of effecting transformational change targeting
under-representation, progression, and attainment of Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) staff
and students with the aim to create a University community that is diverse and inclusive.

Flexible working: We encourage staff to organise their work flexibly to balance family and other
commitments, minimise stress and increase their personal effectiveness. Our Flexible Working
Strategy includes many measures designed to support staff with non-standard working patterns,
e.g. the identification of ‘core hours’ within which all departmental meetings occur and scheduling
of staff meetings to ensure that no part-time staff are regularly excluded because of their working
pattern.

We recognise that staff need to balance a wide range of responsibilities, which may vary over time.
Thus, we endeavour to accommodate changes in working pattern. During the assessment period,
eight staff (both female and male) have adopted part-time working for various reasons. Two of
them have subsequently returned to full-time working. Thus far, all requests for changes to working
pattern within the Department have been granted (e.g. Box 5).

Support for EDI in the promotion process: We have taken action to address the gender pay and
promotion gap. The Department has an inclusive approach to academic staff promotion: all staff

                                                                                            Page 12
         Box 5. Supporting flexible career pathways: Julia Weinstein
         I joined the Chemistry Department in Sheffield as a lecturer in 2005.
         On return from maternity leave in 2007, I received support WARP, which allowed
Unit-level
        meenvironment      template
           to retain a highly          (REF5b)
                              skilled postdoc in my group, easing the transition enormously.
are automatically   considered
         I worked part-time          for promotion
                                for several          annually,
                                             years and          a policy
                                                       was promoted    to that avoids
                                                                          Senior      disadvantaging
                                                                                 Lecturer in 2010,      anyone
reticent about
         whilst Iputting
                  was stillthemselves     forward for promotion (a group that is thought to include a
                             working part-time.
disproportionately
         Subsequently,highI returned
                             fraction of  female staff).
                                       to full-time       The
                                                    working andpositive  impact to
                                                                was promoted     ofReader
                                                                                   this approach
                                                                                           in 2015 is evidenced
by our high
         and success
             Professorrate     of promotions, particularly for female applicants: of 15 academic staff
                          in 2016.
promoted, 6 were female (40%) (one part-time), significantly more than the proportion of female
teaching-specialist and T&R staff (20%). In addition, 50% of female T&R staff are now professors.

    Box 5. Supporting flexible career pathways: Julia Weinstein
    I joined the Chemistry Department as a Lecturer in 2005.
    On return from maternity leave in 2007, I received support
    from WARP, which allowed me to retain a highly skilled
    postdoc in my group, easing the transition enormously.
    I worked part-time for several years and was pomoted to
    Senior Lecturer in 2010, whilst I was still working part-time.
    Subsequently, I returned to full-time working and was
    promoted to Reader in 2015 and Professor in 2016.




Support for EDI in recruitment for leadership roles: Recognising that direct appointment to
roles by the Head are susceptible to influence by unconscious bias, a new approach was
introduced in 2018. Thus, for substantive roles within the Department, an invitation is issued for
expressions of interest which are discussed by the Executive. Subsequently, eligible staff are
interviewed. Posts are normally held for a three-year term.

Support for parental leave: In addition to statutory support, female academics are strongly
encouraged and supported to apply to the Women Academic Returners Programme (WARP). This
scheme provides up to £10k funding for research staff costs, or to kick-start research on return to
work by providing reduced teaching loads or funding conference attendance. Two Chemistry staff
have used this scheme since 2014. Staff may also choose to work part-time after return from
parental leave, with a guaranteed opportunity to return to full-time work in the future. One staff
member changed to part-time and then back to full-time during the assessment period; her
probation period was also extended to reflect the period of part-time working.

Supporting the wellbeing of staff and students: The Faculty recently established a network of
trained wellbeing advocates that includes staff from every department, whose role is to assist
anyone needing information or support to identify appropriate sources of specialist support within
the University. Those in Chemistry are members of the EDI Committee, thus placing wellbeing at
the heart of our thinking. Extensive work has been conducted to prevent bullying and harassment
in the workplace. In 2019 the University rolled out the ‘Report and Support’ system for staff and
students who have experienced bullying, harassment, verbal or physical abuse.



                                                                                                       Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
EDI issues in the preparation of this REF submission: In accordance with the University code
of practice, four principles were applied throughout all stages of our submission: transparency,
consistency, accountability and inclusivity. All staff with a leading role in our REF submission have
undertaken REF-specific EDI training, and 2/7 of these staff were female. Selection of outputs was
guided by anonymous internal and external reviewers.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1. Research income

We maintain a large, balanced portfolio of funding from many sources, including research councils,
industry, government agencies and charities, which is essential for our long-term sustainability in
an uncertain funding climate. Over the assessment period, our goals have been:

   a) To prioritise interdisciplinary research by making targeted appointments to further
      strengthen our diverse activities at the chemistry-biology interface, and in light-matter
      interactions, nanomaterials, and sustainability.

   b) To increase income from industrial partners and from other sources outside the
      research councils, primarily by developing new activities focused on sustainability.

   c) To update core equipment and to invest strategically in new capability to drive forward
      our research strategy.

Our successes in (a) and (b) are illustrated below, while (c) is addressed in §3.2.

We have supported staff to win research funding through various measures, including compulsory
peer review of research proposals organised by research group heads, who also provide advice on
research strategy and the preparation of proposals, in addition to longer-term planning through
research review meetings (§2). We have an internal database of successful applications and
ongoing proposals to provide examples of best practice.

   a) Interdisciplinary research and collaboration has been a central focus of many larger
      grants. Our staff have contributed as PI or Co-I to 26 active grants with award values of at
      least £1M during the assessment period. Highlights in EU funding include two £2.0M ERC
      Advanced Investigator grants for polymerisation-induced self-assembly (Armes) and
      synthetic biology (Hunter) respectively, three Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN grants (€6M) in
      organic synthesis, and Horizon 2020 Future Emerging Technologies OPEN project “FLow
      Induced Phase Transitions (FLIPT)” for environmentally friendly plastics processing (€3.7M,
      €600k to Sheffield). Leggett has led two EPSRC programme grants on low-dimensional
      chemistry (£4.0M) and molecular photonic breadboards (£7.3M, ongoing). Armes and Slark
      hold EPSRC fellowships (each >£1.5M) and Ryan leads an interdisciplinary EPSRC
      programme on redefining single-use plastics (£1.01M). Eight other staff have been PI or
      Co-I in separate multi-investigator projects from EPSRC, MRC, EU and Wellcome
      Foundation. The research and impact contribution of selected major collaborations are
      described in §4.

       All nine ECR staff appointed to support our strategy have secured PDRA funding
       from EPSRC, BBSRC, NERC or the Leverhulme Trust, a direct result of the support and
       mentoring highlighted in §2. Highlights include construction and commercialisation of the

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       world’s first low-cost (FRET) microscope for single-molecule detection (Craggs), novel
       computationally efficient high-accuracy models for intermolecular interaction and
       applications of AI in chemistry (Hill), novel dispersible porous polymers (Dawson), a high-
       profile in the emerging field of tunable 2D metal-organic nanosheets (Foster), development
       of spectroscopic tools for measuring phosphate depletion in soil (Chauvet, Martsinovich).
       Our grant spend per FTE has remained consistent despite several senior staff retiring or
       moving to other UK universities, providing good evidence of the success of our strategy to
       focus on the recruitment of talented ECRs.

   b) Collaboration with industry has grown: Portius has received funding from QinetiQ, DSTL
      and The Home Office on energetic materials. Ryan is the lead Sheffield academic on a
      Sustainable Coatings by Rational Design (SusCoRD) AkzoNobel-EPSRC Prosperity
      Partnership grant (£1.53M to Sheffield over five years). This collaborative project involves
      the Universities of Liverpool and Manchester, Airbus, Crown Packaging and Tata Steel. To
      further strengthen industry-facing activities, Slark was appointed as a professorial fellow in
      2018 to capitalise on his 20 years of experience working in industry. He works closely with
      the University’s Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC) on metal-composite
      adhesion and collaborates with Ryan and Rothman (Chemical and Biological Engineering)
      on single-use plastics in research funded by The Welding Institute.

       Knowledge transfer activities: Staff have carried out research projects co-funded by 46
       companies spanning a range of commercial sectors including commodity chemicals (e.g.
       BASF), speciality chemicals (e.g. Lubrizol), custom synthesis (e.g. Peakdale Molecular),
       pharmaceuticals (e.g. Astra-Zeneca), agrochemicals (e.g. Syngenta), oil and gas (e.g. BP),
       defence technology (e.g. DSTL), coatings (e.g. AkzoNobel), cosmetics (e.g. L’Oreal),
       household & personal care products (e.g. Unilever, P&G), diagnostics (e.g. QuantuMDx)
       and materials (e.g. Scott Bader).

       New income streams: The Grantham Centre was established with a large philanthropic
       donation (£8.7M). It has funded a CDT focused on sustainability, which has involved seven
       staff and nine PGR in Chemistry, and has provided a nucleus for important new initiatives
       (§4).

The next five years: To complement our research strategy of important cross-cutting
interdisciplinary research themes we will:

   •   Prioritise the development of proposals for large interdisciplinary collaborative projects.

   •   Build on our strong portfolio of research on sustainability, by adding work on inorganic
       materials and solar energy capture.

   •   Target enhanced funding for PGR training, through applications for CDT funding.

   •   Build on the established excellence of the Polymer Centre, by using our recent expansion
       of KE activities as a platform to construct a broader portfolio of industrial partnerships, and
       by taking advantage of opportunities offered by the sector-leading AMRC.

3.2. Organisational infrastructure supporting research and Impact

After REF2014, we identified the need to renew and expand our core instrumentation, and to
develop strategic plans to ensure that all our research was supported by world-leading
infrastructure. Therefore, we developed a strategy to secure funds to support these aims.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Core facilities: include NMR (five spectrometers), X-ray crystallography (five diffractometers), the
Faculty of Science Mass Spectrometry Centre (FoSMSC, five mass spectrometers for chemical
and biological analysis), and an expanded computer cluster. These facilities are run by specialists,
usually PhD scientists, who make significant contributions to our research output and provide vital
training to our PGRs and PDRAs. The Department has many smaller items of equipment, which
are available to all researchers and underpin our broad portfolio of research programmes, and
shares access to imaging facilities housed elsewhere in the Faculty.

Enhancing core instrumentation: We received £1.3M (EPSRC plus University funds) to support
instruments underpinning a wide range of research in chemistry, including upgrades of NMR
instruments; addition of single-crystal and powder X-ray diffraction instruments; addition/upgrades
of three instruments in the FoSMSC; and upgrading and expansion of instrumentation for atomic
force microscopy.

Specialist facilities: The Polymer Centre provides state-of-the-art facilities for the comprehensive
characterisation of polymeric materials, while the Centre for Chemical Biology provides extensive
facilities for cell culture work, protein production and purification, biomolecular synthesis and
biophysical characterisation. Our theoretical and computational capabilities have been enhanced
by a new £63k computer cluster for artificial intelligence and molecular simulation, awarded to Hill.

Large investments in equipment to support research in chemistry

The Porter Lab, directed by Weinstein, opened in 2018. It hosts multiple ultra-fast (fs) electronic
and vibrational techniques under one roof (transient absorption, infrared, 2DIR, fluorescence
upconversion, diverse photoluminescence methods, at variable temperature and magnetic fields)
that is unique within the UK. Ultra-fast spectroscopy was identified in REF2014 as a departmental
strength and also offered the opportunity to develop interactions with other departments, e.g.
Biological Sciences (photosynthesis), Medicine, Dentistry and Health (photodynamic therapy) and
Physics (photonic materials and nanophotonics). The Porter Lab has been central to the
successful pursuit of this strategy. It is managed by a dedicated facility scientist. Collaborations
with 8 UK universities (to date), national facilities (RC@H,CLF, Diamond) and research groups in 6
countries spread across 4 continents have led to over 30 publications and have contributed to
>£13M grant income.

The Soft Matter AnalyticaL Laboratory (SMALL) was established in 2016 by Armes and
Mykhaylyk with the aid of a £874k EPSRC equipment grant and an £800k institutional investment
to refurbish unused space. Its centrepiece is a world-leading laboratory SAXS instrument based on
a liquid gallium MetalJet X-ray source which provides a viable alternative to synchrotron radiation
for many studies (e.g. Armes, EPSRC Fellowship; Mykhaylyk JACS 2014, 2015, Nat. Commun.
2020). This facility serves research communities across the Northern Universities (N8) consortium.

The Sheffield Surface Analysis Centre (SSAC), directed by Leggett, houses an extensive suite
of equipment for X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), secondary ion mass spectrometry and
scanning probe microscopy (AFM and SNOM). It supports various research groups across the
Faculties of Science and Engineering and provides contract services to large and small
companies. SSAC was awarded £737k from an EPSRC capital equipment grant in 2015 to procure
a new, state-of-the-art XPS instrument with the capability for non-destructive depth-profiling and
enhanced imaging capability.

Impact: Our world-class facilities underpin a wide range of impact-generating activities, including
collaborative research programmes with industry; provision of specialist technical support to
industrial partners; consultancy; and the provision of contract research services including

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sophisticated problem-solving for commercial customers. Farapack Polymers and Sheffield
Synthesis Solutions are spin-out companies that were established to facilitate KE activities. They
have each facilitated engagement with a wide range of companies in the pharmaceutical, polymer
and speciality chemicals sectors. Several members of staff have acted (and continue to act) as
expert witnesses in legal cases.

Cross-HEI sharing of research infrastructure: We provide essential services (surface science
analysis, polymer analysis, SAXS/WAXS analysis, NMR and mass spectrometry) throughout the
University and also for our industrial partners. The University is a member of the N8 Group of
universities, and has agreed equipment-sharing arrangements with these partners.

Major facilities: Ryan is a member of STFC Council and was non-executive director of Diamond
Light Source (DLS). Brammer (DLS, 2015-18) and Clarke (Institut Laue Langevin, 2014-16)
chaired facility access panels, Clarke chairs the EPSRC e-infrastructure SAT, and Brammer was a
member of 5-year review panel for DLS crystallography beamlines. A number of staff are
substantial users of national and international facilities through competitive awards. (£5.15M in-
kind income, REF4c), leading to major grants and high-impact papers. Examples include: Central
Laser Facility (CLF) (Weinstein, £178k, Science + 2x Nat. Chem.); DLS (Brammer, £1.45M, Nat.
Chem. leading to £1.3M EPSRC); multiple facilities (Mykhaylyk, £556k; Parnell £1.47M, Ryan
£590k). Collaborative interactions with these facilities include four co-funded and co-supervised
PhD students (Weinstein, Brammer, Mykaylyk) and involvement in major new equipment initiatives
(STFC PORTO and UK XFEL, Weinstein)

The next five years: We plan to refurbish half of our research laboratories and to rationalise the
estate to create a physical environment able to sustain us for the next two decades. To achieve
this we will exploit and benefit from the recently announced £150M Science Estate Development
Framework, a major new initiative that provides an exciting opportunity for significant investment in
the Department.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1. Support for research collaboration

During the assessment period we prioritised collaborative research in the design of our new
research group structure. Our aims were:

   •   to develop strong interdisciplinary research programmes (§1);

   •   to maintain internationally excellent standards of research through collaboration with
       leaders in the field;

   •   to achieve impact by working with end-users in the co-creation of new knowledge and in
       knowledge exchange.

Since 2014, many staff have led substantial UK-based collaborative projects. Collaborative
projects led by Brammer have attracted >£2M in EPSRC funding to study fundamentals of
intermolecular interactions and dynamic behaviour in MOFs with collaborators in Chemistry,
Chemical Engineering and Pharmacy at Cambridge, York, Bath and Strathclyde Universities.
Brammer was a Co-I of the UK Catalysis Hub (EPSRC, £3M), which funded work with Haynes and
collaborators from Liverpool, Oxford, and Imperial on organometallic catalysis in confined spaces

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(MOFs). Thomas and Weinstein led a collaboration (EPSRC, £860k) with our Chemical and
Biological Engineering department, Imperial College, U. Jena and the Central Laser Facility on the
development of metal complexes as imaging probes, which led to the identification of new
theranostic leads for photodynamic cancer treatment.

International collaboration: International best-with-best collaborative projects facilitate world-
leading research. Armes published 50 papers in the assessment period involving overseas co-
authors in academia and industry spread across 11 countries including Ober (Cornell), Klein
(Weizman Institute), Wanless (U. Newcastle, Australia) and Tuinier (TU Eindhoven). Armes has
had long-term collaborations with US scientists de Yoreo (PNNL) and Estroff (Cornell) on the
efficient occlusion of nanoparticles within calcite crystals (Nat. Commun. and JACS, respectively).
As part of a £663k EPSRC grant with Moore (Biology) on the long-term storage of pluripotent stem
cells, Armes published joint papers with Whitesides (Harvard) and Wang (Louisville, Kentucky).
Clarke collaborated with colleagues at U. Pennsylvania with funding from the NSF/EPSRC
Materials World Network Program, leading to 14 jointly authored publications in the assessment
period.

D.Williams collaborated with Sturla (ETH Zurich) to characterise DNA alkylation damage. Chen
collaborated with teams in The Netherlands, Spain, and Australia on broad-spectrum disease
protection for enhanced plant growth in agriculture (Nat. Chem. Biol.). Thomas has two long-term
collaborations with Das (CSMCRI, Bhavnagar and IISER Kolkata) and Felix (Aveiro) that have
produced a series of publications including work on cell probes and therapeutic leads; with
Williamson (MBB, Sheffield) he has collaborated with Keene (Adelaide) to determine the NMR
structure of metal complexes threaded into duplex DNA.

Leggett’s EPSRC low-dimensional chemistry programme grant yielded 60 publications, including
joint papers with seven international authors, including Törmä (Aalto), Dutton (U. Pennsylvania),
Schulten (Illinois) and Holten (Washington, St Louis). Leggett’s new programme grant on molecular
photonic breadboards involves international collaborations with Spano (Temple, New York) and
Ogilvie (Michigan).

PGR training building research critical mass: Harrity has led three Marie Skłodowska-Curie
ITNs (total €6M) on synthetic chemistry of bioactive molecules, involving academic collaborations
and exchange/training of PhD students across six European countries and companies in UK,
Sweden, Netherlands, France, and Germany. We have led CDTs on polymers, soft matter and
colloids and molecular-scale engineering (detail §1.4). Chemistry staff have been active in six other
interdisciplinary CDTs either based or partially based in Sheffield. Moreover, 22 staff have
supervised collaborative PhD projects with financial support from industry or national facilities such
as Diamond Light Source (Brammer) and Rutherford Appleton Lab (Weinstein). Such studentships,
which involve substantial (>6 months) placements at sponsor/collaborator sites, have been
designed to significantly benefit the sponsor.

4.2. Engagement with key research users and beneficiaries

Over this assessment period our goal has been to expand our interactions with end-users in
healthcare and to add new streams of activity aimed at generating humanitarian benefits and
advances in sustainable manufacturing to our research portfolio.

Industrial engagement: Our staff have worked with 46 companies (§3.1b) leading to commercial
impact and co-authorship of papers (e.g. Mykhaylyk, two papers on instrument development with
co-authors at Anton Paar; Coldham and Harrity papers with co-authors at AstraZeneca). The
Polymer Centre continues to play an important role in supporting and developing collaborations

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with industrial partners. In addition, the Faculty has appointed two business development
managers, who work closely with academic staff to develop relationships with prospective
industrial partners. The CDT-PSC and the Faculty scheme to co-fund PhD studentships with
external partners have further increased the number of academic-industrial collaborative projects.
Finally, Ryan and Craggs have each acted as expert witnesses in separate patent litigation cases.

Departmental instrumentation underpins contract research with many companies, often brokered
by our (wholly owned) spin-out company Farapack Polymers. For example, a wide range of
companies and organisations, ranging from multinationals such as BP, L'Oreal and Unilever to
local SMEs) have purchased analytical services from SSAC, and our SAXS and XPS instruments
have also been used by companies and by academics working at Oxford, Leeds, Manchester,
Huddersfield and Sheffield-Hallam Universities.

Healthcare challenges: With Skerry (Medical School), Harrity is a key member of an academic
team that has developed a new first-in-class cancer therapeutic agent based on inhibition of the
adrenomedullin-2 receptor. This team worked with a range of industrial scientists and consultants
across the UK and China (e.g. Sandexis, Peakdale Molecular and Wuxi) to develop their academic
ideas into a successful drug discovery programme. A Wellcome Trust Seeding Drug Discovery
award (£2.95M; 2014-17) enabled them (i) to generate new, highly potent lead compounds and (ii)
to demonstrate their efficacy both in vitro and in vivo (using simple models for pancreatic cancer).
Follow-on Wellcome Trust funding (£2.0M, 2017-19) was secured for late-stage development of
lead compounds for clinical development, leading to two patent applications and an associated
publication in ACS Pharmacology & Translational Science. The team is currently spinning out a
company Modulus Oncology to develop the IP on their proprietary compounds for clinical cancer
therapies.

Humanitarian challenges: Portius received funding from QinetiQ, DSTL and the Home Office
while Hippler received a two-year £186k grant from the ‘Find a Better Way’ charity for
spectroscopic studies aimed at humanitarian demining of former war zones.

The Za’atari camp in Jordan is recognised by the UNHCR (the UN Refugee Agency) to be a safe
haven for 80,000 refugees from the Syrian war. In the harsh, arid conditions in the camp it is
difficult for refugees to grow their own food. With GCRF funding, Ryan has developed soil-free,
hydroponic food production systems by repurposing discarded, unrecyclable polyurethane foam
mattresses as growing media, thus enabling refugees to grow fresh produce, leading to better
nutrition and improving mental health (Box 6). The Za'atari project is now self-sustaining, and
Ryan is implementing similar schemes elsewhere in Jordan and Syria. With UNHCR’s support, it is
planned to take this humanitarian solution to refugees all over the world.




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                           Box 6. A team of Grantham
                           Centre researchers led by Tony
                           Ryan has repurposed
                           discarded polyurethane foam
                           as a growing medium for
                           hydroponic agriculture in the
                           Za’atari refugee camp in
                           Jordan.




Environmental Challenges: Ryan is the lead Sheffield academic on a Sustainable Coatings by
Rational Design (SusCoRD) AkzoNobel-EPSRC Prosperity Partnership grant (§3.1(b)). He leads a
‘Circular Economy’’ EPSRC grant (Plastics: Redefining Single-Use; £1.01 M) and presented
findings from this programme at the House of Lords and to a Commons Parliamentary Inquiry (May
2019), and provided evidence to four policy consultations with HM Treasury and DEFRA. Our local
MP, Paul Blomfield, highlighted this research project during a debate in parliament on
unsustainable packaging and this project has also featured on the BBC’s Inside Out programme
and ITV’s Calendar local/regional news programme.

4.3. Engagement with diverse communities

We have a vigorous and well-organised strategy to engage with diverse communities, especially in
the Sheffield area. During the assessment period we have run sessions for local school students in
our dedicated Kroto Schools Laboratory which have reached >7,000 school students from largely
POLAR4 schools. CDT outreach activities, run by PGRs and sponsored by RSC and industrial
partners, have reached >3,000 school students in the local area. Exploring STEM for Girls targets
schools in the Sheffield region where there is a need for widening participation. Events have run
annually since 2014. The most recent event in March 2020 welcomed 350 Y9-11 girls from 18 local
schools. Our Taster Days, aimed at sixth formers considering pursuing a career in science, reach
students from all over the country, with 27% coming from post-code areas with the lowest rates of
engagement in higher education. Members of staff also go out into the community. For example,
Craggs gave the annual RSC Christmas lecture for >200 Sheffield-area school children and Ciani
presented at the Lowry Museum and at the LightNight Festival in Leeds. In addition, Craggs has
been working with Channel Talent to deliver lectures to >100 schools around the country.



                                                                                         Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.4. Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline and indicators of wider influence

Armes was elected FRS in 2014 and received a number of prizes over the assessment period.
Highlights include the 2014 RSC Interdisciplinary Prize for his development of synthetic mimics for
micrometeorites, in an international collaboration with space scientists, and the 2018 Royal Society
Armourers and Braziers' Company Prize for his work on colloidal nanocomposite particles, which
led to the development of successful commercial products by BASF, Cabot and DSM. He has been
awarded the 2021 Sir Eric Rideal Lectureship, a lifetime achievement award in colloid science. His
fruitful decade-long collaboration with Lubrizol was recognised by the Society for Chemical Industry
with its 2020 SCI Innovation in Formulation award.

Staniland was awarded the 2016 RSC Harrison-Meldola Memorial prize for her exploitation of
biomineralisation to produce magnetic nanoparticles via biomimetic syntheses; the Suffrage
Science award, which recognises the achievements of women in science (2017); and the Wain
Medal for research in biochemistry (2017). Harrity received the 2018 RSC Bader award in
recognition of his outstanding contribution to synthetic organic chemistry. He also worked closely
with Peakdale Molecular in 2014 and 2015 under the auspices of a Royal Society Industry
Fellowship. Weinstein was awarded the 2017 RSC Chemical Dynamics Award for her seminal
work in advancing the fundamental understanding of photoinduced charge transfer and the
development of a new IR-laser induced control approach. Ward (now HoD, Warwick) received the
2016 RSC Supramolecular Chemistry prize for his leading contributions to the synthesis,
characterisation, host-guest chemistry and functional properties of self-assembled coordination
cages.

Brammer was elected President of the 700-member British Crystallographic Association (2015-18).
Leggett led the EPSRC Grand Challenge Network on Understanding the Physics of Life “From
Molecules to Systems” (2013-16), establishing a thriving community of 200 UK academics
distributed across the physical and life sciences. Its “Roadmap for Biological Physics” was used by
EPSRC and UKRI to guide the expansion of funding for this field. The network has been refunded
twice and the network management group was awarded the 2020 IoP Rosalind Franklin Medal.

Staff have delivered plenary/keynote lectures on four continents (e.g. Brammer 10 lectures; Armes
5 lectures). During the assessment period, staff have been members of 18 journal editorial or
advisory boards, including Chemical Science (Weinstein); J. Mat. Chem. B (Staniland); ACS Nano
(Leggett); Langmuir (Armes, Leggett). Wider engagement with overseas institutions includes a
visiting professorship at Cornell (Ryan); 5-year departmental review panels for Universities of Cape
Town and Witwatersrand, SA (Brammer); German and Swedish Research Council panels
(Weinstein); major facility access panels or science committee in France, Germany, USA
(Mykhaylyk, Ryan, Brammer).




                                                                                           Page 21
