Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Aston University

 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 Aston University was founded in 1895 to support business, local industry and the community, with
 science and engineering at its core (Institutional Level Environment Statement, ILES1.1). Inclusion
 and impact are two strong themes running within Aston’s strategy and our success in these areas
 was recognised in 2020 by several national awards including the “University of the Year”
 accolade from The Guardian and the “Entrepreneurial University of the Year” award from The
 Times Higher Education (ILES1.2).
 Within Aston, the College of Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS) maintains a high-quality
 collaborative research environment with focused investment in areas where we can demonstrate
 internationally leading research with significant impact. The College is submitting research to
 UoA11 and UoA12. Since 2014, we have enhanced our agile and supportive environment to
 enable staff to win international, national and regional funding leading to impactful research.
 Reflecting this, most of our publications involve international co-authors (significantly above
 sector-average for UoA11) and the majority of our impact case studies are international in scale.
 For example, Bastin’s development of biodiversity tools at the European Commission’s Joint
 Research Centre (JRC) has had world-wide impact.
 The EPS structure (Figure 1) results from the wider re-organization within the University in 2020
 (ILES2.1). EPS comprises three Schools, each of cognate disciplines: Engineering and
 Technology; Informatics and Digital Engineering; and Infrastructure and Sustainable Engineering.
 ASTUTE, EBRI and AIPT, described below, are our overarching Research Institutes. This
 structure supports an interdisciplinary approach to research and impact, as well as addressing a
 growing requirement for multi-disciplinary skills for scientists and engineers at all levels (ILES2.9).
 Aston’s submission to UoA11 comprises Computer Scientists and Mathematicians who sit within
 the School of Informatics and Digital Engineering and ASTUTE.




                     Figure 1: College structure showing Schools, Departments
                    and Research Institutes and related impact case study areas


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knowledge Exchange (KE), underpinned by our research expertise, is fundamental to the College
 ethos and aligns with Aston’s strategy that emphasises the importance of impact by structuring
 thinking directly around Aston’s three beneficiary groups: (i) its students, (ii) business, professions
 and the public sector and (iii) the region and society (ILES1.1). Our research contributes
 significantly to the regional economy where we have strong collaborations with large companies
 and SMEs (ILES1.4). Aston is a leading UK university for consultancy and Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (KTPs) – reflecting our strong links with SMEs – and this enables us to identify trends
 within sectors and opportunities for more in-depth interactions and value-added partnerships.
 Aston has the largest current KTP portfolio (27) of Midlands Universities, and the 8th largest
 portfolio in the UK. ASTUTE staff won awards at Innovate UK’s ‘Best of the Best’ KTP Awards in
 consecutive years: in 2020, The Most Effective KTP initiative, for their work developing the
 Computer Science Industry Club (Section 4.5) to support KE, and in 2019 in The Best Future
 Innovator category for a collaboration with Sarissa Biomedical. Industry Club member, Majestic (a
 Birmingham-based independent technology company providing the largest commercial link
 database in the world) won the Princess Royal Award for Training in 2018 for their work in a
 partnership with Aston University to develop a placement year for gifted students. Additionally,
 one of our ERDF funded innovation projects – Think Beyond Data – will on completion have
 contributed over £4m GVA to the regional economy.

 Research Institutes
 Following REF2014, our priority has been to develop more cohesion between subject-specific
 research areas. To address this, we have three multi-faceted, collaborative Research Institutes.
 The Aston Institute of Photonic Technologies (AIPT) and the Energy and Bioproducts Research
 Institute (EBRI) were two of the four initial University Research Institutes (URIs) created in 2019
 (ILES2.5). Each URI represents an area of critical mass undertaking excellent research with
 impact. The Aston Institute for Urban Technologies and the Environment (ASTUTE) was
 established as a third College Institute in 2018. ASTUTE consolidates interdisciplinary research
 activities in informatics, materials and logistics to respond to the strategic research challenges in
 developing low-carbon and sustainable urban environments. Our aspiration is for ASTUTE to
 obtain URI status in the next REF period. Category A staff submitted to UoA11 are all members
 of ASTUTE. In addition, reflecting the interdisciplinarity and collaborative nature of our research
 across the College, 55 Category A staff returned to UoA12 are also members of ASTUTE.
 The research areas of each of the Institutes are:
    •   ASTUTE brings together technologies and capabilities that are key to enabling sustainable
        living in the city of the future. At the heart of the Institute’s vision is the idea that
        technologies should be developed for the benefit of the urban citizen, contributing to an
        improved quality of life by enhancing mobility, creating a greener, more sustainable
        environment and extracting the maximum benefit from the vast quantities of data
        generated by modern pervasive computing systems. ASTUTE enhances the relationship
        between researchers from different but complementary fields such as logistics and data
        analytics or machine learning, enabling them to tackle the major interdisciplinary
        challenges facing the modern city under the pillars of Digital Engineering, Mobility, Health
        and Energy.
    •   AIPT focuses on the science and technology of light, integrating both blue-sky and applied
        research with education and industrial collaboration. Areas of research excellence include
        optical communications, fibre devices, biophotonics and free-space optics.
    •   EBRI carries out world-leading research into new and innovative ways of converting
        biomass into sources of sustainable energy, using thermochemical, biological and catalytic
        processes. EBRI members engage with colleagues nationally and internationally on supply
        chains, business models, policy, regulation and system performance.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Research Strategy
 Aston’s Research Strategy (ILES2.3) is to prioritise impactful, collaborative, excellent and
 financially sustainable research. Since 2014, EPS strategy has evolved to align with the UK
 Government’s Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges and UN Sustainable Development Goals to
 enable us to tackle some of the big societal challenges in an impactful way. Examples involving
 ASTUTE members are showcased in our impact case studies (ICS):
      •   Sustainable cities and communities – where Clark’s (UoA11) ICS “Digital Twins for
          Complex System Engineering” demonstrates the impact of his work with Tata Consultancy
          Services (TCS) Research. He developed a new agent programming technology for
          simulating and analysing complex enterprise systems using digital twin principles. The
          results have been used in the field by TCS to improve their ability to provide client
          demonstrators and commercial solutions, and the technology has been productized by
          TCS as TwinX™.
      •   Good health and wellbeing - Buckingham’s (UoA11) ICS “The Galatean Risk and Safety
          Technology, GRiST: a web-based system for collaborative mental-health assessment and
          management” describes a mental-health clinical decision support system that is delivered
          by Aston as a cloud-computing service. It is used around the clock by NHS, charity and
          private hospital practitioners to assess and manage risks associated with mental-health
          problems. A second ICS, “ECG-derived biosignals for improved healthcare outcomes and
          a Real-time Adaptive Predictive Indicator of Deterioration (RAPID)” describes how
          research by Herzallah (UoA12) and Lowe (UoA11) led to product improvements in adult
          and paediatric healthcare after novel algorithms were implemented into a commercial
          system developed by world-leading digital healthcare company, Isansys.
      •   Life on Land – where Bastin’s (UoA11) ICS “Development and application of the Digital
          Observatory for Protected Areas” stemmed from a research collaboration with the
          European Commission’s Joint Research Centre that ultimately saw Bastin as lead
          developer of the Digital Observatory for Protected Areas (DOPA). DOPA’s suite of tools
          and services are a reliable, transparent and evidence-based source of policy-relevant data
          for government departments, agencies and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs)
          worldwide, including the UN’s Convention on Biological Diversity and the European
          Commission.
 The strategic aims of EPS are:

 Excellence – Strengthening our research environment
 This strategic strand is led by the Executive Dean (PVC-ED) and the Heads of Institutes (HoIs).
 The key areas of priority are:
  •       Strengthen the interaction between related research activities in informatics,
          logistics and materials. This has been achieved by aligning existing areas of activity to
          strategic research priorities on infrastructure and urban systems. This led to the formation
          of ASTUTE, supported by some strategic appointments in Civil Engineering. By grouping
          staff thematically, we have created a more supportive and effective research environment
          with growing interdisciplinary research (IDR) links e.g., Saad (ASTUTE) is an investigator
          on the £6m TRANSNET programme grant, where he is applying machine learning
          techniques to optical communications with AIPT.
  •       Strengthen our Institutes as centres of excellence by investing in their facilities and
          infrastructure. This led to investment for AIPT of £7.7m in estates, £1.4m in equipment
          and £500k in research funding to ensure state of the art facilities. Similarly, for EBRI it
          resulted in £1.5m investment in estates, £1m in equipment and £1.5m in research funding.
          For Computer Science and Mathematics, we have implemented a £4.5m programme of
          office refurbishment to bring staff and PhD students into higher grade spaces with
          communal areas to encourage team support and cross fertilisation of ideas.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •     Create a vibrant research community. To address this, we have built on the IDR
        approach to capitalise on connected staff (ILES2.9 and 2.10). To increase research
        networking, various IDR activities have been instigated such as “show-and-tell” and
        workshop events for researchers and external visitors in areas such as Digital Engineering,
        Photonics and Sustainable Engineering. We also pump prime the development of
        international collaborations using Aston’s International Collaboration Fund, e.g., the
        hosting of Professor Takeshi Akinaga (Akita University) by Generalis in 2019 led to the
        subsequent award of an EU RISE project (824022).
 We will continue to support the development of the Institutes, for example, by further strengthening
 the high-quality research environment (increased peer mentoring and reviewing for papers and
 grants), impact (newly launched innovation weeks), business development activities and
 increasing support for KE activities (ILES4.12). We continue to horizon-scan and nurture emerging
 areas, e.g., we are currently developing activities in circular economy and health engineering. In
 addition, we will increase the involvement of social scientists, whose expertise will contribute to
 the early social acceptability of rapidly developing technologies, such as driverless electric cars
 and artificial intelligence. These issues align closely with the Living with Technology and Data and
 Infrastructure focus of ESRC’s plan.

 Excellence - Strengthening our people
 This strategic strand is led by the PVC-ED, Associate Dean (Research) (ADR) and HoIs. The key
 areas of priority are:
  •     Grow the number of active researchers in the College and increase the numbers of
        researchers working within the Institutes. The number of REF Category A staff has
        grown to 34FTE in UoA11 (from 18.20FTE in REF2014). This growth is due to recruitment
        of new staff on Teaching and Research contracts, plus the change to submission of 100%
        eligible staff. In addition, we have used strategic senior appointments to strengthen and
        consolidate specific research areas, e.g., Sawyer in Digital Health and Clark in Multi-agent
        Systems. Future growth areas for EPS are sustainable engineering and digital engineering,
        the latter encompassed by UoA11.
  •     Develop our future research leaders. Mentoring (ILES3.9) and training have proven to
        be effective, e.g., Xu came to Aston as Senior Lecturer in Manufacturing Engineering in
        2017. Strong support led to a rapid development in his research leadership skills. He was
        promoted to a personal chair in 2020 and is now leading the Digital Engineering initiative
        within ASTUTE.
  •     Strengthen the diversity and inclusivity of our research community. We are making
        significant progress in this ongoing project (see Section 2). EPS has moved from Athena
        Swan Bronze to Silver in this REF period and will apply for Gold in 2021.
  •     Improve the PhD experience. Alongside the work of the Aston Graduate School
        (ILES3.15-3.19), we developed a comprehensive PGR training programme with an annual
        cohort of 15-30 PhD students (typically 7-8 in UoA11). Funding secured from the EPSRC
        Doctoral Training Programme as well as University investments is underpinning this
        initiative. For PGRs currently registered in UoA11, 33% are female and 48% are BAME
        indicating that we are on track to meet our 2025 diversity targets (see Section 2).

 Impact Strategy
 This strategic strand is led by the Deputy Dean (Enterprise and International) (DDEI) working
 closely with the HoIs. The key areas of priority are:
  •     To increase the amount of industry driven research and commercial activity. Support
        from professional services colleagues in Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE)
        (ILES1.3, 3.10, 4.5) has facilitated a threefold increase in the annual awards from Industry
        sources over the REF period with a further twofold increase in annual awards from ERDF
        projects focused on KE.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •     Promoting links to regional companies. ERDF funding has been used to work directly
        across all Institutes to support over 500 SMEs over the REF period. For example, ASTUTE
        has supported ERDF projects in data analytics, machine learning, supply chain
        management, low carbon industry, additive manufacturing and smart materials. In addition,
        a series of seminars has been established in ASTUTE to bring together companies in a
        particular sector with relevant academics along with Business Development Managers in
        RKE (ILES4.4), who proactively seek out opportunities for KTP projects (ILES2.6) (e.g., a
        workshop on Digital Engineering (10/2019) had speakers from MTC, Rolls-Royce and
        Arcadis).
  •     Supporting impact through investment and flexible contracts. We have used
        secondments and investment in equipment to support academics in accelerating impact
        For example, Cornford worked part time at Aston to 2018, during which time he was able
        to use his research in machine learning and statistical methods to grow the Birmingham
        software development base of IGI Ltd, a company that specialises in geochemistry & basin
        modelling consultancy. Bastin’s work with the JRC was also enable by two secondments.
 Through our Institutes and related business development support activities (ILES4.13) we robustly
 monitor our impact pipeline and support activities at different stages of maturity with financial
 support, appropriate networking and marketing. An annual programme of ‘Innovation Weeks’ is
 being used for team building and to train staff and PhD students who can move technology further
 along the technology readiness levels and address some of the skills gaps we see in SMEs. To
 encourage staff in this area, impact has been made a key element of Aston’s Research Strategy
 and is explicitly considered in promotion applications (ILES3.3).

 Collaboration Strategy
 This strategic strand is led by the ADR with the HoIs and DDEI. The key areas of priority are:
  •     Increase international collaborations for staff and students using both internal funding
        (e.g., the International Collaboration Fund (ILES2.9)) and applications to organisations,
        including the Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society, the Daiwa Foundation and the EU RISE
        scheme. Of all outputs published by staff in UoA11 during the REF period, 65% of
        publications have overseas co-authors, 5% ahead of the sector average for the disciplines.
  •     Continue to build and support our industry collaborations. Over the REF period we
        have developed a portfolio of regional projects to support SMEs (see examples in Section
        3.2) and increased our KTP portfolio (Section 4.5). We also launched the award-winning
        Industry Club in computer science and then rolled out the model across EPS (Section 4.5).
  •     Helping to cement Aston’s position as a Civic University. We are positioning ASTUTE
        as the go-to place for regional bodies seeking solutions to the challenges that lie in the way
        of Birmingham transitioning to a zero-carbon future. This has required us to establish good
        relationships with the West Midlands Combined Authority, the Local Enterprise
        Partnerships and Transport for West Midlands and we are planning knowledge sharing
        sessions (learning-lunches) with the Digital team within Birmingham City
        Council. ASTUTE is a member of the Birmingham Smart City Alliance. As leaders of the
        Greater Birmingham and Solihull Institute of Technology (GBSIoT) Applied Research
        stream we are organising joint industry-academia hot-topic-based workshops and case
        studies to encourage increased collaborative funding applications.

 Sustainability Strategy
 This strategic strand is led by the ADR with the HoIs. The key areas of priority are:
  •     Broaden the portfolio of funders and increase the amount of UKRI and commercial
        funding. We work with professional services departments to ensure the financial
        sustainability of EPS research. Colleagues from the funding teams of RKE and Finance
        (ILES4.4) work closely with the ADR, HoIs and Departmental Research Directors to share
        intelligence about the funding landscape and strategically plan our response, pooling

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        resources and contacts appropriately. The core professional services team meet monthly
        to ensure that information about funding opportunities is shared effectively, and that the
        necessary resources are put in place to support the pipeline of bidding activity. The
        Strategic Funding Manager and International Funding Manager work with individuals and
        Research Institutes to plan grant capture strategies and refine grant applications. EPS has
        increasingly adopted a cohort-based approach to support groups of individuals who are
        preparing bids to the same type of call, for example, the EPSRC New Horizons call where
        we had two successful awards, one from an ECR. Similarly, colleagues in RKE run an
        annual Grant Writing Programme to support a group of researchers who are applying for
        their first Research Council grants (ILES4.5). All bids go through the University’s internal
        Peer Review process prior to submission, with the objective of supporting researchers to
        improve the quality of bids submitted. Due diligence checks, match-funding decisions and
        sign-off of bids also go through a clearly defined process designed to improve the
        University’s management of our institutional commitments and to ensure financial probity
        and sustainability (ILES2.8).
  •     Increase the proportion of staff actively seeking and winning funding by improving
        support for early-stage researchers. All ECRs now complete a Career Development
        Plan and it is one of the ways we operationalise the Concordat to Support the Career
        Development of Researchers (ILES3.13). The Career Development Plan is a framework
        that brings together all the help available internally supporting ECRs to plot their own
        professional development pathway. At Aston, the ECRs participate in the “ECR Forum”
        (ILES3.14) to enhance their ability to work across disciplines, build effective networks and
        provide focused developmental opportunities.
 The success of our College strategy is reflected in EPS being in a much stronger position than in
 2014, with our combined research income and income-in-kind for this REF period being £58m, up
 from £23m in REF2014 (£6.2m, up from £4.1m in UoA11). EPS has contributed just over half of
 the University’s annual research awards over the REF period. The Research Institutes are
 providing support for staff and students with the critical mass needed to further strengthen external
 recognition and momentum.


 2. People

 2.1 Overview
 The leadership and governance of EPS has been strengthened significantly since REF2014.
 Changes include the appointment in 2017 of Professor Sarah Hainsworth OBE FREng, as Pro-
 Vice-Chancellor and Executive Dean, and the appointment of Professors Tony Clark and Kate
 Sugden as Deputy Deans in 2018. All three have strong track records in impactful research and
 understand the challenges of balancing teaching and research commitments. Professor Patricia
 Thornley took over the Associate Dean (Research) role from Professor David Webb in 2019,
 ensuring a continuation of strong and effective research leadership. The ADR works with the
 Director of Research Degree Programmes (Dr Aniko Ekart) and PGR Tutor (Professor Wen Cao).
 These two roles exist to specifically support research students within the College and share the
 administrative load, a move that has turned out to be highly beneficial in the pandemic. Our
 Research Institutes are headed by Professors Webb (ASTUTE), Sergei Turitsyn (AIPT) and
 Thornley (EBRI).

 2.2 Staffing Strategy
 Significant work has been undertaken over the REF period to ensure that EPS operates in an
 efficient, cohesive and inclusive manner, allowing people to develop their research careers in a
 supportive environment. The EPS staffing strategy places equal value on (a) the appointment of
 external staff in areas that need stronger leadership or to build critical mass, and (b) the
 development and support of the existing team to create future research leaders.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since REF2014 we have increased the number of staff in the College to reduce a high student
 staff ratio and ensure that the staff have time for research (Figure 2). For this REF return, Aston
 committed to a 100% submission of eligible staff. In UoA11, this has resulted in almost double the
 number of staff being submitted to REF2021 (34.0FTE, all of whom are on Teaching and
 Research contracts (6 ECR)) compared to REF2014 (18.2FTE). At the same time, the research
 only staff population in EPS has also seen significant growth of 47% from 62 to 91FTE, providing
 a vibrant community of early career researchers.




                         Figure 2: Staffing Levels for EPS (UoA11 and 12)
 New academic appointments are made where there is clear alignment between the appointees’
 expertise, our existing research activity and our beneficiaries-led research strategy. This has
 enabled us to build a genuinely collaborative and interdisciplinary research environment. For
 example, the recent appointment of Alexakis in Civil Engineering not only brings research
 expertise in structural monitoring to that Department, but he also contributes to optical sensing in
 AIPT and machine learning in ASTUTE.

 2.3 Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Strategy
 Aston is committed to EDI in recruitment, promotion and access to education (ILES3.4-3.6). EPS
 (UoA11 and 12) has been a leader within the University in this area (for example, it was the first
 College to achieve Athena Swan Bronze and Silver awards) with significant activity across gender,
 race and inclusion. The driving philosophy behind our work in this area is that the creation of an
 inclusive environment is a pre-requisite for the promotion of EDI, and this requires activity against
 different strands:
  •     Diversity in Leadership – The EPS Senior Management team (July 2020) was 43.5%
        female and 56.5% male which is exceptional for an engineering-and-science-focused
        College. In terms of ethnicity the split is 77.3% white, 22.7% BAME – this is above the
        sector average but would benefit from further improvement to reflect our region and student
        population. We have just appointed our first female Head of Computer Science – Professor
        Lumsden.
  •     EPS has been at the forefront of Aston’s Athena Swan initiatives obtaining Silver in
        2014 – Prior to the COVID pandemic we were planning to submit a Gold application in
        autumn 2020 but this is now delayed until 2021. Our Athena Swan activity in EPS has led
        to an improvement in EDI data analytics across the University. Actions put in place in EPS
        in the REF period include selected training, mentoring and wide advertising of vacant roles
        within the College to allow staff to build experience. As part of the Athena Swan initiative,
        we have developed a teaching load model that looks more broadly at the time contribution
        for teaching-related activities as well as standard lecturing time to reach a more equitable
        distribution of load and ensure all T&R staff have time for research.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •    Race Equality – EPS’s Director of Operations (Gill-Knobbs) leads on Aston’s Race
       Equality Charter, which Aston signed up to in 2019, supported by the Associate PVC for
       EDI. The University-wide Group (ILES3.5, Figure 4) is currently working through the results
       of the Race Equality Charter Survey and this will generate targeted activities to support
       staff and students. The Group also instigated the process for Aston to join the BBSTEM
       Alliance (Black British Professions in STEM) to support our Black research students where
       numbers are low. The motivation for this came from a working group set up specifically for
       Black staff and students following the BLM movement early in 2020. BBSTEM was founded
       by EPS graduate Kayisha Payne and provides support in terms of industrial mentors and
       corporate insight days which students can access for free. There is also support for PhD
       students through an online community. A BAME staff network has been established and
       includes research staff. The network will be running research focused events and providing
       support for researchers.
  •    LGBT+ – EPS Deputy Dean Kate Sugden chairs Aston’s Working Group on LGBT+ staff
       (2019-20) (ILES3.5, Figure 4). This also contributes to the open and inclusive culture of
       the College and wider University.
  •    Gender Pay Gap – The University aims to eliminate its Gender Pay Gap of 19.5% (2017)
       by 2025 by focusing on consistency of starting salary and pay parity on promotion and
       within professorial bands (ILES3.6). EPS has a significantly smaller pay gap than
       elsewhere in the University; over the REF period, EPS has decreased its pay gap from
       5.5% (2013) to 2.4% (2020). This has resulted from more consistent mentoring around
       promotions and more openness in advertising available roles and responsibilities and
       training programmes - changes brought in as part of Athena Swan.
  •    External Diversity Activities – EPS staff have also shown significant contribution in this
       area. For example, Hainsworth is Chair of the RAEng Diversity and Inclusion Committee
       (09/2019-present) and was Deputy Chair for 2 years before that. Through this Committee,
       she has made a significant contribution to the development of the RAEng Fellowship Fit
       for the Future campaign and the delivery of the new Diversity and Inclusion Framework.
       Sugden was elected the Diversity Champion for IET Council (2018-19) and is currently on
       the Board of Trustees for Foothold https://www.myfoothold.org/, a charity supporting
       engineers and their families with unexpected life challenges. RAEng Visiting Professor
       Dawn Bonfield's work supported the addition of “inclusive engineering design” into
       accreditation by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) as well as similar revision of the
       Engineering Accreditation guidelines, AHEP.
  •    Widening Participation – Mindful of the development of our future researchers we have
       twice hosted the transformative RAEng Graduate Engineering Engagement Programme at
       Aston to increase the transition of engineering graduates from diverse backgrounds into
       the engineering sector. We have also encouraged Research Institutes to provide paid
       internships for students to experience working in a research environment. We supported
       the formation of the WEST (Women in Engineering, Science and Technology) society in
       2017, and Bonfield pro-actively mentored these students, who rapidly gained confidence
       and experience. In 2020, WEST progressed from a student affiliated group to a newly
       formed social enterprise, and engaged in a funded project in Nigeria, all with the help and
       advice of Bonfield. Through WEST we have sponsored students to attend the annual
       Women’s Engineering Society. Finally, Aston contributes to the Widening Participation
       strand of the Institute of Coding.




                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4 Support for Staff

 Research Culture
 In EPS we promote a positive research culture to support our academics and researchers
 throughout the research lifecycle, including:
    •   Opportunities to discuss and formulate ideas for research proposals through mentoring;
        staff networks and line management; an active seminar series led by the Research
        Institutes; and publicising of relevant upcoming funding opportunities by RKE.
    •   Research proposal development, in particular for ECRs (including coaching, writing
        cohorts and formative peer review), with strong support from EPS staff and RKE (ILES4.4-
        4.5).
    •   Support for all aspects of research integrity and ethics including support for ethical approval
        (ILES2.11-2.12).
    •   Support for the dissemination of outcomes of research that transcends traditional
        publication routes (Aston Open Data Policy (ILES2.14) and Open Access Policy
        (ILES2.15)) and includes dedicated staff in RKE proactively providing links to potential
        partners in business, government and industry to translate the outcomes of research into
        impact (ILES4.12).
    •   To highlight the importance of research in our strategy, EPS introduced protected weeks
        within the annual timetable when staff can focus exclusively on research activities.

 Training and support for ECRs and postdoctoral researchers (PDRs)
 We are fully committed to implementing the key principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and indeed Aston has held the “HR Excellence in Research Award”
 since 2010 (ILES3.13). The University-wide ECR Forum includes the ECR Development
 Programme (ILES3.14), which includes a range of training courses and workshops run by two
 specialist members of staff. New research staff receive a Welcome Pack that gathers in one place
 all the information and documents they will need relating to university services and career
 development. The activities run by the ECR Forum, including the Annual ECR Interdisciplinary
 Conference, provide an opportunity for PDRs and ECRs to meet potential collaborators and
 friends from across the University and develop a mutually supportive network.
 As part of their induction, academic ECRs are assigned a dedicated research mentor: a colleague
 who sits outside their line management structure, has a strong research track record, and who
 acts as a confidential, independent, critical friend. New female appointments are given the option
 of a female mentor. Additionally, the University facilitates cross-College mentoring relationships
 (ILES3.9).
 The Institutes provide vibrant "homes" for new researchers, so that they can experience
 interdisciplinary interactions beyond their departmental affiliation, engage in constructive research
 development and knowledge exchange, and meet with research users in the industrial, business
 and policy communities, via our regular seminars and workshops.

 Staff Training
 In addition to University-wide training provision (ILES1.5iv, 2.10, 2.12, 3.10, 3.14, 3.16, 4.13) we
 have introduced a series of initiatives within EPS, which we continue to adapt as the research
 landscape changes. Recent examples are set out in Table 1.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                Table 1: EPS Staff Training Provision

  Training for PhD          Alongside the extensive Graduate School introductory programme
  students and PDRs         there is also: An Introduction to Research in EPS; Support for
                            Fellowship applications

  Training for ECRs         Introduction to Research in EPS; Building a Track Record; Working
                            with EPSRC; Working with Industry; Working with the EU, Research
                            Support; Introduction to REF; Supervising Postdocs and PGRs;
                            Impact and How to Generate It; Publishing Considerations, Planning
                            for Future Promotion based on Research; Early Career Fellowships

  Training for all staff    Health and Safety Awareness; Equality and Diversity*; GDPR*; Cyber
                            Security*; Research Student Supervision*; Introduction to
                            Unconscious Bias*, Recruitment within the Equalities Framework –
                            *courses compulsory for all EPS staff

 Staff Grades and Promotions
 The annually monitored data shown in Figure 3 gives the distribution of staff in EPS split by gender.
 Grade 7 is Teaching Assistant level. Grades 8 and 9 are Lecturers. Grade 10+ are Senior
 Lecturers and above.




                              Figure 3: Gender split of T&R and R staff

 EPS manages promotions in a fair and equitable way. Over the REF period, 130 applications
 for promotion were received by the College. Of these, 15 were promoted directly (to grade 8 or 9)
 and 63 (for higher grades) went forward to the University Promotions Board. The overall success
 rate there was 85.7%, 89% for female staff and 90% for BAME staff compared to 84% for male

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff and 83.3% for white staff. Overall, there is no significant statistical difference in success rates
 between the protected groups observed.

 Selection of Outputs
 Section D of our Code of Practice sets out the process for selecting outputs, with the peer review
 process for outputs set out in Appendix 6. Two workshops were run for EPS staff to explain these
 processes, and those involved in selecting outputs also participated in a comprehensive EDI
 training session which was developed in conjunction with Advance HE. A further workshop was
 run for ECR staff to introduce them to the REF process.
 Our REF Individual Circumstances process (Code of Practice, Appendices 7 and 8) was run
 independently by RKE. In line with our commitment to an inclusive return, all employees who
 submitted a declaration of individual circumstances were invited to indicate if they would be like to
 be contacted by an HR Business Partner to discuss their circumstances, and any support that they
 may have required.
 As part of our REF preparation, we have conducted three Equality Impact Assessments of output
 attributions. Colleagues in RKE and HR have compared outputs attributed to all Category A staff
 (using FTE, not headcount) with those outputs attributed to those with protected characteristics
 (gender, age, disability and ethnicity). The inclusive nature of our return is reflected in our final
 Equality Impact Assessment (conducted 01/2021).
 UoA11 proposed 234 outputs in total, of which 71 are attributed against an FTE of 34 Category A
 staff against an attribution target of 85. The UoA11 selection displays a consistent percentage of
 attributions (mean 37%) across all protected characteristics (Figure 4). Small sample sizes explain
 any differences.




                       Figure 4: Alignment of %FTE and output attributions by
                                 protected characteristics for UoA11



                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.5 Strategy for Training and Supervision of PGR Students
 Aston’s Graduate School (AGS) was established in 2010 to provide a supportive environment for
 all research students across the University (ILES3.15-3.18). Integrated with this central provision
 is subject-specific postgraduate training and development provided within EPS, providing a strong
 local research environment, where PhD students are supported in their development towards
 becoming independent researchers.
 Since 2014, the following significant changes have been made in terms of how we recruit and
 manage PhD students, in order to achieve and develop a vibrant research environment:
 Recruitment – A rigorous student recruitment process is in place to ensure that PGRs have the
 best possible chance of successfully completing their PhD on time. All interview teams must
 include an independent senior academic with a track record of successful PhD supervision who is
 able to advise on the suitability of the candidate. English Language training is offered to students
 for whom English is not their first language (ILES3.19). Typically, 15-30 fully-funded studentships
 are allocated annually via a highly competitive call, in which both the quality and strategic fit of the
 project and the suitability of the proposed student are assessed by an experienced panel. Students
 are increasingly recruited to related cohorts to provide peer support. Strategic priority for these
 studentships has shifted from an initial focus on co-funding studentships with industry (aligned
 with our industry-focused research strategy) to concentrating on pump-priming the research
 careers of our new lecturers, following a significant expansion of new academic staff in EPS. All
 staff with supervision responsibility are required to complete mandatory supervision training, which
 must be updated every three years, regardless of career stage (ILES3.16).
 Arrival – Following each quarterly start date, there is a comprehensive welcome and induction
 session provided by the Director of Research Degree Programmes, where students are guided
 through all the relevant documentation, development opportunities and the expectations placed
 on them. In consultation with the supervisor, the student undertakes a training needs analysis to
 identify the development needed to support both their PhD work and their future career goals.
 During the PhD – AGS provides comprehensive PGR support for all students (ILES3.15-3.19). A
 formal quarterly and annual monitoring process is in place to ensure students are making sufficient
 progress and are well supported by their academic supervisors. In addition, international students
 are invited to networking events for international students and staff, to help them feel included in
 the research community and make links with others who may have similar experiences.
 In response to data from the 2017 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), several
 new initiatives were instigated including:
    •   Increased contribution of up to £1500 towards attending a conference to present a paper
        or poster. This is available to all students who have completed their qualifying examination.
    •   A Postgraduate Student-Staff Liaison Committee to provide a direct link between PGR
        students and senior management via the AGS Management Committee (ILES3.15). In
        addition, student representatives meet with the ADR and Director of Research Degree
        Programmes to discuss any College-level issues they may be having. As an example,
        reports of issues with aging computers led to a College policy whereby all incoming PGRs
        are given a new PC on arrival.
    •   We introduced an EPS PGR Conference in 2018, organised by postgraduate student
        representatives of the Liaison Committee. This was much appreciated by the students and
        the idea has been taken up by AGS, which now also facilitates University-wide weekly
        events such the Interdisciplinary Seminar Series (ILES2.10).
 Student networks – Our PhD students are integrated into the research community and relevant
 networks to provide peer support. Our office spaces have been redeveloped to ensure that
 students sit within the academic groups and share communal spaces. The Women in Science and
 Technology group provides networking support across all student groups and regularly hosts
 visiting speakers from industry. ASTUTE holds monthly research seminars for all its staff; these
 have an interdisciplinary focus and help create links between different research specialisms.

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These are organised by an ECR to help develop management and organisational skills and raise
 their profile.
 Graduate Outcomes – The most recent (2017/18) Graduate Outcomes survey available for the
 assessment period (27 EPS responses) showed that 96% of EPS PGR graduates found graduate
 level positions. 30% took up Postdoctoral Research Assistant positions, 15% secured academic
 positions, 18% continued in further education, and the remaining 33% went into professional-level
 work in industry.
 Diversity of PGR student body – EPS has prioritised diversification of our PGR population by
 ensuring fair recruitment processes. The Home BAME PGR student population has risen from
 39% (2015/16) to 43% (2019/20). In terms of gender, our objective is 40% female PGR by 2025
 and we have improved steadily from 29% female PhD students in 2015/16 to 38% female in
 2019/20. Our current intake across the College is 50% female and 64% BME, indicating we are
 on track to meet our diversity targets. This improvement stems from targeted interventions, such
 as: (a) involving our own UG students more in projects related to research, (b) supporting student
 networks that cross over the PG/UG divide so that there are appropriate role models, (c) more
 widespread advertising of opportunities (d) interview practices including mixed panels.
 Figure 5 shows diversity data covering the REF period for the Computer Science and Mathematics
 Departments, which map closely to UoA11.




                         Figure 5: Diversity data for Computer Science and
                         Mathematics PGR students - over the REF period


 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities
 The overall aim of EPS in this REF period has been to build the strength of our teams,
 infrastructure and facilities in areas where we can deliver impact on an international scale and use
 this to drive growth in research activity.
 The move towards Institutes, and the increasing focus of our research into related disciplines,
 allowed us to invest in infrastructure to benefit large groups of individual researchers. Through this
 approach, we have brought together research teams to create a more dynamic, interactive and
 supportive environment. This has included £4.5m investment in new, clustered staff workspaces
 which co-locate Computer Science and Mathematics academic staff, researchers and research
 students. Where appropriate, researchers are encouraged to belong to, and access, more than
 one Research Institute to encourage interdisciplinary interactions, for example, there are Civil and
 Biomedical engineers from ASTUTE who have AIPT laboratory space and Mechanical Engineers
 working in EBRI and ASTUTE. The total capital expenditure over the REF period on EPS research
 was £16.6m.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.1 Research Income and Awards
 The UoA11 Income has grown from £4.1m in REF 2014 to £6.2m in REF2021, the annual
 breakdown for which is shown in Figure 6.




                                 Figure 6: UoA11 Research Income

 UoA11’s annual research awards have grown from less than £750k in 2013/14 to over £2m in
 2019/20 (Figure 7). At College level, EPS has grown its annual research awards substantially from
 £8.4m in 2013/14 to an average of £15.7m/year in the last three years of this REF period. This
 growth will drive an increase in research income in the next REF period.




                                 Figure 7: UoA11 Research Awards

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities Pertaining to Research
 Our investment in infrastructure and facilities has underpinned the growth in income and awards.
 For UoA11, it is important to note that these activities take place within a larger support framework
 at both College and University level. Specialist centralised research support is led by the PVC
 Research and the Executive Director of Business Engagement (ILES4.4). EPS benefits from a
 high-performing team who generate fruitful industrial connections, support large collaborative
 grant applications and project manage large projects. This has resulted in the College’s strong
 position in KTP grants where we are a sector leader and have substantial EU research funding
 (16 of the University’s 19 current KTP projects are in UoA11). Furthermore, there exists a critical
 mass of colleagues with experience in successful knowledge exchange, who act as impact
 champions and mentors. All our Institutes have embedded business engagement teams that use
 ERDF funding to provide the infrastructure and support collaboration with regional businesses,
 which is matched by an equal funding contribution from the University. The facilities and
 infrastructure for each of the Research Institutes is summarised below.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Aston Institute for Urban Technologies and the Environment
 In addition to having access to the AIPT and EBRI facilities described below, ASTUTE also has
 facilities that support the variety of research activities in the Institute, including:
    •   The Aston Laboratory for Immersive Virtual Environments, resulting from a £3.9m
        investment in 2015, provides motion capture, room-scale virtual reality and EEG recording
        equipment, enabling research into visual perception, social cognition, and social vision.
        This is complemented by the Aston Interactive Media Lab, which is dedicated to human-
        computer interaction, primarily applied to mobile technologies.
    •   The Aston Robotics, Vision and Intelligent Systems lab houses a variety of predominantly
        social robots and aims to improve mankind’s quality of life by enabling intelligent robots,
        virtual agents and autonomous systems with perceptual and cognitive capabilities.
    •   Investment of £80k from GBS Institute of Technology has enabled a laboratory dedicated
        to Cyber Security. Vulnerable network systems can be simulated, attacked and defended
        within an isolated environment.
    •   Our significant activity around data analytics and AI is supported by a range of computing
        options. Researchers can access individual GPU-based workstations, a new shared server
        (8GPU, 20 core, 512 GB, £50k), cloud-based processing (e.g., Amazon Web Services)
        and the Tier 2 HPC facility of Midlands Innovation (ILES1.5).
    •   We have a wide range of facilities supporting our research on future transport including
        equipment to test high-performance electrical machines, power converters and EV
        batteries to enable bespoke design as well as the ability to assess the performance of
        engines running on biofuels
    •   Researchers investigating functional materials have accessed £2.4m of beam time during
        this REF period.
 Since the formation of ASTUTE in 2018, the number of KTP projects in the Institute has increased
 from 5 to 17. In terms of fundamental research, Aston’s two successes in the recent EPSRC New
 Horizons call were both from ASTUTE members (one an ECR) and 2020 saw the submission of
 a successful EU FET proposal in collaboration with colleagues in Health and Life Sciences plus
 international partners.
 ERDF projects continue to deliver measurable benefit to our regional beneficiaries. The Think
 Beyond Data project aimed at enabling SMEs to make better use of their data, to develop new
 services and products, to leverage large public datasets, and to develop a workforce that is highly
 skilled in leading-edge analytical techniques. An evaluation report by Hatch Regeneris
 (2020) noted that the team supported 60 companies, with estimated additional GVA expected to
 reach almost £4m, providing £6.45 GVA for every £1 ERDF funding invested. This excellent value
 for money is reflected in the subsequent extension of the project.
 A second project, Smarterials - Promoting Functional Materials, in SMEs, sits between ASTUTE
 and EBRI. This project commenced in 09/2018 and will run until 08/2021. It is designed to help 66
 SMEs develop their use of functional materials and grow their business through a partnership with
 Aston University built on research, testing and expertise in material science. The collaborations
 with industry have been diverse: from working with a fuel additive manufacturer to verify the
 efficiency gains that it brings to an engine, to working with a wind turbine developer to create
 prototype designs from optimum materials.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aston Institute of Photonic Technologies
 AIPT has outstanding facilities and infrastructure enhanced by recent major strategic investment
 by Aston University. This includes a £7.3m investment in 2017 into a new, 1200 square metre,
 state-of-the-art suite of 30 laboratories for the Institute, including optical communication, fibre
 device fabrication, laser, medical and biophotonics laboratories. In parallel, Aston invested around
 £5m into equipment, with a further £3m invested in equipment after AIPT was awarded University
 Research Institute status in 2019. The breadth of these facilities makes AIPT a partner of choice
 for many businesses and universities giving AIPT an impressive reach. This includes a portfolio
 of ~60 industrial and international collaborations, 60 patents, and five spin-out companies.
 AIPT’s global status is further confirmed by the coordination (as a single beneficiary) of a major
 €3m Marie S. Curie COFUND MULTIPLY Photonics Training Programme, with 50 world leading
 partners, from MIT to the Max Plank institute for the Science of Light.

 Energy and Bioproducts Research Institute
 EBRI’s dedicated building incorporates unique, state-of-the-art laboratories, collaborative office
 space, dedicated meeting/engagement rooms, and social facilities to support its academic and
 industry facing teams in accelerating the commercial development of low-carbon energy and
 products. The facilities are the result of a £20m investment to support the development of a
 regional bioenergy supply chain and to promote the adoption of innovative new bioenergy
 technologies across the West Midlands region. EBRI’s research extends from fundamental
 science through engineering challenges, social responses to technologies, economic context and
 policy development. It leads the £6m national flagship EPSRC/BBSRC-funded Supergen
 Bioenergy Hub research centre of excellence which works with academia, industry, government
 and societal stakeholders to develop sustainable bioenergy systems that support the UK’s
 transition to an affordable, resilient, low-carbon energy future.


 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 4.1 Introduction
 EPS values collaboration with academic, industry and policy partners, both nationally and
 internationally. In addition, wide-ranging activities in Knowledge Exchange such as KTP and
 business focused ERDF funding have generated strong links to industry – especially the technical
 SME community.

 4.2 International Collaboration and Networks
 Our Research Institutes collaborate with high-performing institutions and industry partners around
 the world, allowing regular exchange of people and ideas. This has in turn enabled our research
 to create impact on an international scale. For example:
    •   In our UoA11 ICSs: “Development and Application of the Digital Observatory for Protected
        Areas”, which resulted in tools that have been used globally, and “Digital Twins”, which
        arose from a longstanding collaboration of Clark with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS)
        Research in India. The first ICS arose from time spent working at the European
        Commission’s Joint Research Centre and the second from an ongoing research
        collaboration that involves annual research visits to the company, where Clark is funded
        as a Research Advisor. In 2019, Clark’s work won a TCS Innovation Award in competition
        with over 6000 entries.
    •   Buckingham’s collaboration with Johns Hopkins University investigated racial bias during
        clinical diagnosis in the UK and the US; a Race Equality Foundation report used the
        findings to recommend improvements for Black people’s healthcare.
    •   Little, Arora and Raykov worked with a number of international partners including MIT,
        Johns Hopkins University and the Michael J Fox Foundation on ground-breaking work on

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          the use of smartphones for detecting and monitoring the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease
          and the large-scale deployment of wearable sensor to monitor Parkinson’s Patients for the
          Parkinson@Home study. The end goal of this work is to establish a better platform for the
          long-term management of Parkinson’s disease and improved drug efficacy tests.
      •   Several staff have longstanding international collaborations: Lumsden and Campelo both
          hold Adjunct Professorships at Canadian universities (University of New Brunswick and
          Dalhousie University); Nerukh holds a Visiting Scientist position at RIKEN in Japan and
          supervises PhD students at Kiev University, supported by funding from the EU Research
          and Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE) scheme.
      •   Since 2014, EPS has received funding for 18 international networking RISE projects, as
          lead and partner, providing £9m to support collaborative research, networking and training
          with industry and academia across the world. They have enabled collaboration with
          academics from 40 countries on applied and theoretical projects; examples from UoA11
          range from “Computing with Infinite Data” to “Fractures Across Scales, Materials,
          Processes and Disciplines”.
      •   Aston is within the top ten UK recipients for the highly competitive FET programme and
          the projects that Aston leads are excellent examples of IDR, e.g., the recently successful
          application for the £4m NeuChip project with Aston Principal Investigator (PI) Dr Rhein
          Parri (Institute of Neurodevelopment), Co-PI Prof David Saad (ASTUTE, Mathematics). The
          project partners are the University of Barcelona, 3Brain (industry), Technion (Israel), CNRS
          Paris (France) and Loughborough University (UK).
      •   In addition to the International Collaboration Fund (ILES2.9), UoA11 academics exploit a
          range of other funding mechanisms including Royal Society International Exchange,
          RIKEN Japan, Japan Society for the Promotion of Science Bridge Fellowship, EU
          Twinning, Erasmus+, Leverhulme Trust Distinguished Visiting Professorship, Erasmus+
          and British Council. Furthermore, our policy of recruiting from the widest possible field
          brings staff members from across the globe with ready-made international links e.g., from
          Computer Science, Campelo has strong links to Brazil (particularly the power industry
          there), while in Mathematics, Nerukh has ongoing collaborations in Ukraine, and
          Chattopadhyay with India.

 4.3 Academic Outputs (UoA11)
 Our networking strategy has produced a significant impact on international collaborative outputs.
 Of the 1908 published outputs by UoA11 Category A staff in this REF period, 65% were the result
 of international collaboration vs a sector average of about 60% for the disciplines (SciVal,
 December 2020). Of the internationally collaborative papers, 53% were from partners within
 Europe 26% from Asia Pacific and 11% from North America.

 4.4 Research Community
 In addition to our funded networks, EPS strongly encourages colleagues to contribute to the wider
 research community. This includes:
  •       Journal editing: Associate Editor (2019-present) of IEEE Transactions on Software
          Engineering (Bencomo); Editorial Board Member (2019-present) of the Journal of Software
          and Systems Modeling (Bencomo); Frontiers Research Topic Editor (2020, Bernardet);
          Editorial Board Member (2019- present) of the Journal of Software and Systems Modeling
          (Bencomo); Editor (2019) of a special issue of the International Journal of Computer
          Integrated Manufacturing, Volume 32, Issue 4-5 (Ekart); Editor in Chief (2008-present) of
          the International Journal of Mobile Human Computer Interaction (Lumsden); Guest Editor
          (2016–2017) of Science & Justice (Morrison); Guest Editor (2016–2019) of Speech
          Communication (Morrison); Editorial Board Member (2012-present) of Scientific Reports
          (Saad); and Associate Editor (2006-present) of IEEE Intelligent Systems (Zhuge).


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •    Contribution to conference organisation: Member (2020-present) of the IEEE Technical
       Council on Software Engineering (Bencomo); Program Committee Member (2020) for the
       International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (Bernardet),
       Program Committee Member for 2020 CHI (Human Factors in Computing Systems)
       (Bernardet); Programme Committee Member (2013-present) of the KES International
       Conference on Innovation in Medicine and Healthcare (Buckingham); Programme
       Committee Co-Chair for ISEC 2021 (Clark); Publication Chair (2018), Chair (2019), Co-
       Chair (2020) for the 7th, 8th and 9th EvoMUSART, the International Conference on
       Computational Intelligence in Music, Sound, Art and Design (Ekart); Chair (2017), Co-Chair
       (2018) of the Digital Entertainment Technologies and Arts track at the Genetic and
       Evolutionary Computation Conference (Ekart); Programme and Steering Committee
       Member for the European Conference on Genetic Programming throughout the period
       (Ekart); Conference Chair (2015) for the IMA (Institute of Mathematics and its Applications)
       Conference on Mathematics of Robotics (Holderbaum); Committee Member, Mobile HCI
       2015 2nd Workshop on Designing with Older Adults: Towards a Complete Methodology
       Workshop (Lumsden); Associate Chair (Papers), Interaction Design & Children 2016
       Doctoral Consortium Chair (Lumsden); Associate Chair (Papers) NordiCHI'2020
       (Lumsden); Committee Member (2014-2020) for the European Symposium on Artificial
       Neural Networks ESANN (Saad); and Co-organiser (2015) of the Royal Society meeting
       on Communication Networks Beyond the Capacity Crunch (Ellis, Saad and Payne
       (Southampton)).

 4.5 Knowledge Exchange
 Within EPS we have a variety of platforms to engage with industrial partners, government and
 Professional Engineering Institutions, which work together to support knowledge exchange and
 present a coherent pathway for company–university interactions. These include:
  •    European Regional Development Funding (ERDF) - This allows each Research Institute
       a platform for regional knowledge exchange with six projects associated with ASTUTE
       running on the REF census date (AgriTech, Smarterials, UK Centric Supply Chains, Low
       Carbon SMEs, Think Beyond Data, ETICC). In 2020 alone, 200 enterprises were
       supported by EPS through these projects. All ERDF-funded business support programmes
       are independently evaluated upon completion. Analysis from these evaluations show
       participating companies benefit from faster growth, sustainable job creation, graduates
       retained in the region and increased GVA; for an example, see the description of Think
       Beyond Data in Section 3.2.
  •    Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) - We have grown our KTP activity, with strong
       centralised support and referrals from the ERDF projects and the Industry Clubs. Aston’s
       portfolio is dominated by EPS projects; there have been 32 KTP projects over the REF
       period, totalling £6,374,896 in funding, and 19 of these have been from UoA11. In terms
       of outputs, analysis of KTP reports showed Aston generated on average 1107% return-on-
       investment (ILES1.4). We host a high profile annual KTP poster event, which allows our
       beneficiaries and research teams to network and understand the benefits of knowledge
       exchange and promote wider KE opportunities. In UoA11, recent KTP success includes
       the 2019 Future Innovators Award for KTP associate Gallo working with Sarissa
       Biomedical.
  •    Industry Clubs (ICs) - The award-winning EPS model of ICs, which originated in
       Computer Science (CS), has since been rolled out across the College and has generated
       significant benefit to both students and researchers. The objective is to harness cutting-
       edge industry expertise to generate high-level graduate opportunities, enhance the skills
       of students and develop new research opportunities. The CS IC brings together students,
       academic members of staff and around 15 local technology businesses who provide both
       financial and in-kind support. It has supported >80 placements and graduate roles, guest
       lectures, company input into student projects, Insight days and curriculum input. Within
       UoA11, the ICs have provided the basis for 15 KTP projects worth> £3m, joint funding for

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          4 PhD studentships (Geospatial Insight, Beazley and Arcadis) and a £590k EPSRC project
          (EP/T017627/1).
  •       Collaborative Research Grants – In UoA11 we have also had success with collaborative
          Innovate UK research projects, including Lumsden’s “Mapmydiabetes”, a collaboration
          with Mapmyhealth Ltd providing mobile diabetes education and self-management support,
          and He’s “Big Data Content Analytics with particular reference to Probabilistic Neural Topic
          Models”, which involved the development of a content analytics toolset with Foldingspace.
  •       Informing policy Buckingham’s research applying computer science in the health sector
          has had significant impact (ICS ‘The Galatean Risk and Safety Technology – Grist’); his
          work on clinical bias due to race has prompted the Race Equality Foundation to
          recommend improvements for Black people's health care. The international scale of the
          policy impact of Bastin's development of the Digital Observatory for Protected Areas is
          highlighted in Section 1.2.

 4.6 Wider Contribution to Society
 The Aston Strategy 2018-23 has our beneficiaries approach at its core (ILES1.1), and EPS has a
 strong history of outreach and masterclasses to engage the wider community with our research
 activities, driving our student diversity and our strong links to business and the region; indeed
 outreach is explicitly written into many of our grant applications. Examples of our higher profile
 events where a strong link between science and arts boosts accessibility include:
      •   Lightfest (2015) was a flagship UK initiative for the UNESCO International Year of Light
          celebrations. Held at the newly opened Library of Birmingham, it was funded as a
          European Commission Researchers Night activity, attracted 12,500 visitors and involved
          100 researchers and 33 additional Aston volunteers. A follow-up event Cityfest, focused
          on Smart Cities was due to run at the Birmingham Museum in 2020 but was delayed due
          to Covid (re-scheduled for July 2022).
      •   EPS was invited to participate in a high-profile event in Hong Kong SPARK: The Science
          and Art of Creativity (2019) which was organised by the British Council. The ASTUTE-
          focused Aston stand concentrated on Smart Cities and how technology, data and logistics
          linked together. The event was featured in China Daily Hong Kong.
      •   EPS has been an active contributor to The Big Bang Fair with our STEM Superhero
          exhibits and research volunteers translating science and engineering into superpowers.
          Colleagues have also regularly contributed to activities such as Pint of Science and Cafe
          Scientifique, e.g., “Artificial Intelligence” (Lewis).
 Broader Public Engagement - EPS have encouraged (and trained) staff to write for the
 Conversation (https://theconversation.com/uk) to engage the wider public with STEM. Media
 training and marketing support has also been offered as part of our public engagement strategy
 and ASTUTE coverage in the period 2018-2020 included:
  •       2018 saw the launch of ‘Vegetable Maths Masters’, a smartphone app to encourage
          children to consume more vegetables by integrating different methods known to increase
          interest in, and eagerness to try them. It was developed by researchers at Aston (Farrow
          (Psychology, UoA3) and Lumsden (UoA11)), Loughborough and De Montfort Universities,
          in association with the British Psychological Society. Coverage of this appeared in the Daily
          Mail, The Mirror, HeartFM and various global online news channels.
  •       2018 also saw research from Lewis on how smartphone battery life can be significantly
          extended by moving processing to the cloud widely covered (BBC World Service (starts at
          19 minutes), The Daily Mail, The News International (Pakistan), and Xinhua News Agency).
  •       One project from the Think Beyond Data ERDF project on route-optimisation for transport
          was picked up by 25 websites including The Engineer (2020). The research suggested



                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        commercial vehicle fleets operating in large towns and cities could halve their emissions
        and better meet clean air targets using technology inspired by the behaviour of ants.
  •     PhD student, Salawu (supervised by Lumsden), had his work on a new app widely shared.
        The app uses novel artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms to combat trolling and bullying
        online. Bullstop, is the only anti-cyberbullying app that integrates directly to social media
        platforms to protect users from bullies and trolls messaging them directly. The App has 4.7
        stars on Google Play.
  •     Following on from a Nature Communications paper, Chattopadhyay’s proposal of a new
        way to use machine learning to define what poverty really means in different contexts was
        featured in ZME Science (2020).
 Looking to the future - Aston's College of Engineering and Physical Sciences will build on
 existing partnerships and forge new links at local, national and international level. By investing in
 our research infrastructures and the staff and doctoral students who make up our research
 community, EPS will continue to produce excellent, impactful and sustainable research for the
 benefit of society throughout the lifespan, and the advancement of science and engineering.




                                                                                              Page 20
