Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 26: Modern Languages and Linguistics

    1. Unit Context and Structure; Research and Impact strategy

 1a. Research Context and Structure

 As a Unit of Assessment, the Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures at Royal
 Holloway has an international reputation for research in four language areas (French,
 German, Italian and Spanish) as well as Comparative Literature and Culture. From 2020 our
 range has expanded to include World Literatures. The Department’s research staff comprises
 seven Professors, four Readers, four Senior Lecturers, one Lecturer and one Leverhulme post-
 doctoral Fellow.

 Our research culture emerges from our language-specific research interests and shared
 strengths across a range of research specialisms: literature from the Early Modern to the
 present; film, television and digital media studies; visual cultures; critical and cultural
 studies; philosophy and critical theory; gender and sexuality studies; colonial and
 postcolonial studies; historical and political studies. In both our teaching and research
 cultures we aim to foster interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary work, creativity, and co-
 operation.

 We refreshed our research strategy in 2015, taking an innovative approach to a challenging
 period for Modern Languages in the UK. We have championed the College’s international
 aspirations, and in response to Royal Holloway’s strategic research priorities, we aim to
 cultivate research that is responsive to the contemporary world, in Britain and beyond. This
 includes:

    ●   a commitment to engaging with and enhancing social, economic and political agendas;
    ●   encouraging a culture of social responsibility;
    ●   developing digital and other innovative approaches to democratising cultural participation.

 Our ambitious research objectives identified the following as growth areas and as strategic
 priorities for our research:

    ●   The facilitation of co-operative and participatory research in visual cultures;
    ●   The continued development of comparative literature and world literatures;
    ●   Facilitating regional impact through the encouragement of collaborative and outward-
        facing projects involving research-led practice and curation;
    ●   Facilitating international impact through partnerships and projects that attend to global
        challenges such as sustainable development and disability;
    ●   The cultivation of interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary research.

 To implement this strategy, we have played a leading role in the Humanities and Arts
 Research Institute, which provides a platform for interdisciplinary initiatives and cross-
 institutional collaboration. In 2016 we strengthened our research by establishing a cross-
 disciplinary Centre for Visual Cultures, which reflects our research expertise in art,
 photography and film. The Centre provides an intellectual focus for staff and PGR students in
 the Department. The activities of the Centre have been central to fostering an emerging


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specialism in research-led practice and curation and a commitment to public engagement with
 the visual arts, as demonstrated in our two Impact Case Studies.

 In August 2019, as part of Royal Holloway’s transition into a six-School structure, we were
 integrated into the new School of Humanities. The School is facilitating closer interdisciplinary
 collaborations with the Departments of English, History and Classics. Structurally, the
 Department now benefits from overarching structures and strategies to support research.
 These include cross-departmental directors of Research and Postgraduate Studies, and a
 School Research Committee that co-ordinates and maintains oversight over grant applications,
 sabbaticals, and matters such as applications to the Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships
 scheme.

 1b. Review of Research Objectives 2014-20

 Our research aims for the assessment period, as outlined in REF2014, have been met. As
 planned, we have consolidated research excellence in the fields of comparative literature and the
 visual arts.

 Objective 1: Supporting Individual Researchers
 Until the establishment of the School of Humanities, structural support for individual researchers
 was maintained via the work of the Departmental Research and Postgraduate Committee. The
 functions of this committee have now been taken over by the School Research Committee,
 which has preserved and developed our best practice in research matters. Full details of the
 work of the Committee are provided in Section 2 below.

 Objective 2: Supporting Interdisciplinary research
 Multi- and interdisciplinary research remains a priority of the Department. This is especially
 supported by the Humanities and Arts Research Institute and the Centre for Visual
 Cultures. The Institute is central to Royal Holloway’s vibrant interdisciplinary research culture.
 Its two most recent Directors (Thompson 2018-20 and Hemus 2021-) and Associate Director
 (Kent 2018-20) are included in the current REF submission. It stimulates and supports research
 of the highest quality beyond disciplinary and institutional boundaries and promotes the
 exchange of knowledge and expertise with diverse public organisations, the creative industries,
 the performing arts and festivals. Its collaborations and established partnerships with visual
 culture organisations, including the British Film Institute and Tate Exchange, support our
 intellectual engagement with visual cultures whilst also enabling the public dissemination of our
 research. Holders of Fellowship and Project grants from the Institute included in the current
 submission are Robertson, Pieri, Williams, Harris, Sands, Jossa and De Donno.

 Our commitment to the promotion of interdisciplinarity, visual cultures, curation and public
 engagement is most clearly demonstrated by the Centre for Visual Cultures, a major platform for
 exploring interdisciplinary manifestations of visual art and digital culture, as well as redefining
 and contesting accepted notions of visuality. It draws on the full range of research expertise in
 visual cultures within the Department and provides a forum for scholars, students, practitioners,
 media and arts historians and curators (including the College’s own) to share ideas and
 collaborate. The Steering Committee of the Centre consists of members of Departmental staff.
 The Centre’s director (currently Williams) co-ordinates regular meetings to plan research
 projects, colloquia, public events and research seminars, training workshops, exhibitions, as well

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as informal dialogues and knowledge exchange, notably with Tate Modern (several members
 are actively involved with its learning centre, Tate Exchange.) Many events are recorded and
 made available through the Centre’s web pages that also feature research articles and
 commissioned blogs. Members of the Centre for Visual Cultures have a strong track record in
 collaborative research and grant capture (e.g. Pieri; Wright). The Centre bid successfully in 2016
 and 2017 for funding from the Humanities and Arts Research Institute for the ‘Making Space for
 Art’ research project, and in 2018 and 2019 for Humanities and Arts Research Institute
 Research Centre funding.

 Objective 3: Encouraging Applications for Research Funding from External Sources
 During the assessment period, we have improved the quality of funding and grant applications
 and diversified the range of funding bodies to which applications are made. The mechanisms
 through which we have done this include:

    ●   the establishment of a clear structure, via the School’s Director of Research, for the
        dissemination of information about funding calls and deadlines;
    ●   peer advice and mentoring, facilitated by the Departmental (now School) research
        committee and the Research and Innovation Department;
    ●   departmental peer review of all applications at the planning stage;
    ●   workshops and support programmes tailored for the needs of Early Career Researchers,
        arranged at Departmental level, via the Humanities and Arts Research Institute, and at
        Institutional level - in 2018-19 Kent and Sands participated in a series of grant-writing
        events organised by the Humanities and Arts Research Institute, and Thompson and
        Pieri provided mentorship and peer review support to the ECRs on the programme;
    ●   a series of Departmental seminars and away days designed to showcase successful
        funding applications and to share knowledge and best practice via input from
        experienced colleagues.

 1c. Approaches for Enabling Impact

 The Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures actively supports the creation of
 research impact. REF3 gives details of our two headline impact case studies that reflect
 strengths in visual cultures, curatorial work and knowledge exchange that are mirrored in many
 of the other activities of researchers in the Department. During the assessment period we have
 implemented a strategy with the following ambitions:

    ●   to create diverse and consistent impact through expanding the body of staff engaged in
        it;
    ●   to capitalise on our track record of educational and cultural impact through growing our
        collaborations and partnerships with museums and galleries;
    ●   in line with the College’s strategic goals, to encourage research relevant to under-
        represented or disadvantaged communities, and to foster social impact with global reach;
    ●   to put in place resources and long-term planning mechanisms to identify and allow the
        full development of major impact-generating activities;
    ●   to encourage the development of pathways to impact via public engagement activities.

 In 2016 we appointed a Director of Impact (currently Hemus), who works with Research and
 Innovation to support colleagues within the Department. We have sought to deliver our strategy
 for impact in the following ways:

 Training and professional development. The Department works closely with Research and
 Innovation to publicise relevant opportunities, and to share best practice. For example, at

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departmental Research Away Days (held annually from 2015), the experience of developing
 impact case studies for REF 2014 has been reflected on, and colleagues developing work with
 museums, galleries and other public institutions have shared experiences. The College’s
 programme of Impact training events is well attended by members of staff.

 Financial and workload support for impact development. The Department, and now the
 School of Humanities, seek to recognize the demands of impact development by offering
 financial support and workload relief wherever possible. Our two Impact Case Studies (Hemus
 and Robertson) have been supported through teaching relief and/or additional sabbaticals, so
 that they have had the time to capitalise upon impact opportunities and to continue to produce
 excellent research.

 Identifying and communicating opportunities for partnerships with other sectors. The
 establishment of a dedicated Director of Impact has embedded impact management in workload,
 and allowed for a channel of communication about both internal events and impact development
 training, and opportunities to liaise with the non-academic sector. Since 2017, Departmental
 researchers (Pieri, Hemus, Thompson) have made practical use of research in a series of
 annual educational workshops held at the Tate Exchange London and initiated by Royal
 Holloway’s Faculty of Arts. A photograph of Hemus’ 2017 workshop ‘Dada’s Women’ was
 commended in the annual photography competition held by the National Co-ordinating Centre
 for Public Engagement.

 Recognising and publicising impact. The Department’s Research and Impact Leads work
 alongside Research and Innovation to facilitate opportunities that engage with a wider audience,
 and to advise on planning and pathways for impact (including as part of grant applications).
 Departmental researchers have collectively engaged in a wider range of public engagement
 activities than ever before, including:

    •   the curation of public exhibitions;
    •   advising on policy making and widening access to sport;
    •   participating in radio and television interviews in the UK and internationally;
    •   participating in and/or creating educational podcasts and videos;
    •   conducting educational workshops, participating in panel discussions and delivering
        lectures at public institutions such as the British Film Institute;
    •   judging international translation prizes;
    •   communicating research findings accessibly in the national press and via online
        platforms such as The Conversation.

 The Department seeks to promote the effective dissemination of our research findings, to help
 colleagues to develop a public profile, and to maximise the impact potential of the events
 organised by colleagues. It does this by using both Departmental and College web pages and
 social media platforms including Twitter, YouTube and Instagram.

 Producing research that benefits under-represented or disadvantaged communities, or
 that has the potential to reach beyond academia. By providing sabbatical leave, funding
 conferences, organising research seminars and making online platforms available, the
 Department has supported research into representations of disability that has led to action on
 accessibility (Thompson), into documentary photography in post-Castro Cuba (Kent), and into
 the history of sport and media (Hughes).

 Encouraging collaboration and interdisciplinary work through involvement in Research
 Centres. The Department can point to an environment that facilitates interdisciplinary and
 collaborative research with strong impact potential. It has made this approach to research a

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic priority, particularly through the work of the Centre for Visual Cultures. The Centre ran
 a series of collaborative research events under the banner ‘Making Space for Art’, co-funded by
 the Department and the Humanities and Arts Research Institute, which facilitated fruitful
 partnerships with arts practitioners and curators. The Centre has also supported educational and
 other public events that realise the impact potential of scholarship – these have included, as well
 academic events and lectures, artist-led workshops co-ordinated by Hemus and Robertson, and
 the creation of research-led public exhibitions.

 1d. Research Objectives 2021-26

 The Department’s research and impact strategy for the next five years (and beyond) has
 been refined in tandem with the College’s Future Directions for Research. With the support of the
 School of Humanities, the Department will remain committed to cross-disciplinary, individual and
 collaborative research, in particular through the Centre for Visual Cultures, and through staff
 collaboration with the other Centres and Institutes at Royal Holloway: Humanities and Arts
 Research Institute, the Holocaust Research Institute, the Centre for GeoHumanities (of
 which Cruickshank, De Donno, Kent, Pieri, Sands and Wright are members), and the Gender
 Institute, founded in 2020 (of which Hemus and Pieri are members).

 We will continue to value and support individual research and impact across our core research
 areas in languages and comparative literature, but will also encourage conversations across
 disciplinary boundaries through key areas of shared interest in the Department. We have
 identified the following intersecting themes that speak to institutional priorities and key
 challenges for society:

    •   Visual Cultures (including film studies, the history of art and the avant garde,
        digital humanities, curation and practice, popular culture);
    •   Gender, Sexuality and the Body;
    •   Literature from the Middle Ages to the Present, Critical Theory and Ethical
        Challenges in the 21st-Century;
    •   Transnationalism, Migration and the Postcolonial;
    •   Theory and Practice of Translation.

 The conversations and collaborations around these themes will respond, in different ways, to two
 of Royal Holloway’s four new institution-wide Research Catalysts (2021-24): [1] ‘Digital futures
 in the Creative and Cultural industries’; and [2] ‘Living Sustainably’, building on our
 emerging strengths in areas such as practice-based research and in areas such as
 environmental and medical humanities. The continued engagement of our researchers with the
 College’s facilities and infrastructure will likewise form an essential part of our planning, for
 example through collaboration in the organisation of public exhibitions.

 1e. Sustaining an Open Research Environment and Reproducibility of Research

 The Department’s strong commitment to the principles of Open Access has been encouraged
 through staff membership of executive committees of learned societies, through which we have
 been engaged in discussion and wider consultation of how to progress towards a full Open
 Access environment. We are fully compliant with the Open Access requirements of REF2021
 and aim to go further in making research feely available. To this end, Thompson chose to edit
 special editions of Disability Studies Quarterly (2018) and Revue Canadienne des études sur le
 handicap (2020) specifically because both are peer-reviewed, free open access, online journals.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The most recent monographs of Davis and Sands are freely available through Knowledge
 Unlatched.

 2. People
 2a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Staffing and Recruitment Policies
 Departmental recruitment policies have been shaped by the inter-related needs of our core
 undergraduate programmes in Modern Languages and Comparative Literature and Culture, and
 areas of growing research strength. We have strengthened our research in Visual Cultures,
 Comparative and World Literature, Postcolonial Studies and Critical Theory with recent
 permanent appointments of ECR lecturers (Kent and Sands, 2015; Scott, 2020). Although the
 staffing demographic is presently weighted towards mid-career and senior research staff, our
 strategy is to ensure appropriate succession and sustainability across our subject areas by
 making new appointments at ECR level. Our recruitment policy is also informed by the strongest
 support for equality and diversity (see 2c). The Department does not make use of short-term
 contracts for Category A-eligible staff, apart from in the case of staff whose positions are funded
 by external bodies (this applies to Phillips and Duffy).

 The appointment of Sands was the first dedicated appointment we have made in comparative
 literature. Other existing staff (including Cruickshank, De Donno, Hughes, Jeremiah, Davis,
 Williams) have played a major role in defining new agendas in this area, which forms an
 increasingly vital part of our teaching, research, and PGR recruitment. The appointment of Scott
 in World Literatures reflects our commitment to the strategic expansion of our literary and cultural
 coverage.

 Staff Development Strategy / Supporting Early Career Researchers
 Structured support for researchers is delivered via the School Research Committee, which
 conducts an Annual Review of Research, in which staff report on research achievements and
 reflect on future plans for outputs, impact and funding applications. The Annual Review informs
 arrangements for research mentoring, available to all staff regardless of career stage. The
 School Research Committee also oversees a sabbatical leave rota, ensuring that all research
 staff have equal opportunities for research. It also oversees the allocation of internal research
 funding on an equitable basis, while probationary staff benefit from reduced administrative and
 teaching duties during their probationary period.

 Staff have benefited from Equal Opportunities initiatives, including the Women’s Enhancement
 Programme designed to support female colleagues in their career progression. Seven members
 of staff (Cruickshank, Haddu, Hemus, Jeremiah, Pieri, Thompson, Wright) have participated in
 this programme, which was recognised by the THES for its excellence, with four promoted to
 Professor during the assessment period. Participation in the Springboard Women’s Development
 Programme and Aurora, the leadership programme offered by Advance HE, is also encouraged,
 with the costs shared by the Department and Human Resources.

 Three ECR appointments were made: one in Hispanic Studies, which also served to strengthen
 our research excellence in visual cultures (Kent); in the strategically important area of
 Comparative Literature and Culture (Sands, a specialist in Contemporary Literature and Critical
 Theory); and the third in World Literatures (Scott), who took up post in June 2020.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In line with policy across Royal Holloway, the Department has well-established and robust
 practices to support the development of staff at all stages of their careers. ECRs serve a
 three-year probationary period during which they have a reduced teaching load and are not
 expected to undertake major administrative roles. During this period, they are assigned a
 Probation Adviser with whom they meet at least four times a year. They also undertake the
 Certificate in Academic Practice in Teaching and Learning (CAPITAL), which is available to all
 academic staff. CAPITAL is accredited by the Higher Education Academy, and is supplemented
 by a scheme (TALENT) designed to support staff in their continued professional development,
 and through which they can eventually apply for a Senior Fellowship of the HEA (Kent is a
 successful example of this). Other staff who become SFHEA via the TALENT scheme during the
 assessment period include Harris, Hughes, Jeremiah, Jossa, Mayo, Pieri, Thompson, and
 Wright.

 In addition, the College runs an established research development programme (‘Advance’) for
 staff. This comprises a scheme whereby ECRs are mentored by a senior researcher in another
 Department, and a series of 15 workshops open to researchers at any stage in their careers.
 Workshops are led by both external facilitators and internal experts, and are often tailored
 specifically to Humanities scholars, offering useful networking opportunities. Since 2014, all staff
 on probation have been required to complete modules which develop their research and
 professional skills.

 The Department’s Leverhulme Early Research Fellow (Philipps) was recruited after an internal
 competition through which he gained institutional support for his application. Staff (Davis and
 Cruickshank) advised on the development of his research project, and he has a mentor
 (Cruickshank) with whom he meets regularly to discuss research and career development
 issues. He undertakes a small amount of research-based teaching and benefits from the same
 training and research resources as permanent staff. He participates in all departmental activities,
 especially its research events.

 All non-probationary, non-professorial staff are ordinarily considered annually for promotion, with
 the process now within the full remit of the School of Humanities. Promotion is not quota-based,
 but rather it is awarded entirely and solely on merit. In the assessment period, 11 colleagues
 benefitted from our promotion policy. For professorial staff, a system of professorial banding
 ensures fairness and equality. Professors’ research, teaching, impact and leadership are now
 assessed every two years to ensure that they are at an appropriate point on the banding scale.

 Policies for Departmental Funding / Sabbatical Leave
 All research staff and PGRs can apply for departmental funding for research-related activities
 or for impact projects. In addition, departmental funding has been used to support a number of
 major conferences, such as the annual conference of the Society for French Studies that was
 hosted by Royal Holloway in 2019. Since the establishment of the School of Humanities,
 research staff can automatically claim up to £600 a year for suitable activities, and they can
 apply to the School Research Committee for further funding up to £1000.

 Until 2019, the Department maintained a scheme for sabbatical leave (normally one term in
 nine), allocated on a transparent and equitable basis. The School of Humanities has now
 introduced, through a more effective distribution of teaching and administrative roles, a scheme

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that allows for staff to apply for leave of two terms in twelve, so that major research projects,
 funding applications and impact activities can be given the maximum chance of success.
 Allocation of leave is subject to satisfactory research plans, which are reviewed by the School
 Research Committee. Plans for funding bids are a requirement for sabbatical leave, so that a
 planned, foreseeable programme of applications is maintained. Outcomes are reviewed through
 reports submitted within three months of the end of the sabbatical. Over the assessment period,
 all staff have been allocated periods of research leave. Staff returning from maternity leave are
 entitled to apply for supplementary sabbatical leave, and in some cases (Hemus, Mayo) extra
 periods of leave covered by departmental resources have been granted to facilitate the
 completion of major outputs. Some staff have also been given reduced examining roles to
 support specific research during the Summer term.

 2b. Supporting PGR Students

 Recruiting Doctoral Students
 Our recruitment of Doctoral Students (PGRs) is in large part driven by the annual cycle of
 advertising and competition for studentships provided by the Technē AHRC Doctoral Training
 Partnership. The process is overseen by the School Director of Graduate Studies (currently
 Sands). Applicants are given the chance to consult potential supervisors who offer feedback and
 advice prior to the deadline for applications in January. Applications undergo a round of internal
 selection, and are given further targeted feedback before submission to the inter-institutional
 Technē selection process. Royal Holloway is the lead member of the Technē Partnership, which
 has twice been successful in funding bids, in 2014 and 2018, to support PGR research and
 training in the Arts and Humanities. The Partnership competitively awards around 45
 studentships per year, and between 2014 and 2020 ten awards were made to students
 supervised by Departmental staff, involving funding of over £250k. This is supplemented by
 further funding from institutional and departmental sources.

 Support and Monitoring
 We value excellence not only in scholarly supervision but also in the support and training
 offered to PGRs so that they are prepared for an increasingly competitive job market, both
 within and outside academia. Partly due to our growing focus on interdisciplinary projects,
 especially in comparative literature and visual cultures, we have had more doctoral
 completions during the assessment period than last time around: there were 27 completions in
 REF2014, compared with 39 between 2014 and 2020.

 Within the Department, all students have a supervisory team, usually consisting of a primary and
 secondary supervisor and an advisor, whose work is overseen by the School Director of
 Graduate Studies. Potential PhD students are initially admitted with MPhil status, upgraded
 within two years of study, and progress is monitored both through regular supervisory meetings
 and a formal annual review. After every meeting with their supervisors, students complete and
 submit a form briefly outlining matters that have been discussed and future work to be
 undertaken. Support for supervisors is offered in the form of regular PGR progress meetings in
 which colleagues discuss supervisory strategies and challenges, and through a newly launched
 institutional supervisory support scheme.

 Provision for support and monitoring at institutional level has also been reviewed and improved.
 The Royal Holloway Doctoral School was established in 2014 with the explicit aim of

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 integrating more than 1000 research students into the College’s research community, and
 providing funding, support and training. Its wide range of activities and facilities, including
 funding opportunities, mentoring and an annual conference, are detailed on its website. The
 School additionally allows PGRs apply for up to £300 annually to help with the costs of training
 and conference participation.

 We have taken steps to integrate PGRs into the Department’s research culture. We run 6
 events per term designed to involve PGR students in the research community, including: Glossa,
 a student-led open reading group; research forum sessions taking the format of 'A Conversation
 on....', with invited speakers; and work-in-progress sessions, in which PGRS present in a friendly
 environment. The topics for these sessions address the range of research interests within the
 Department and they are frequently chaired by PGRs.

 A committee made up of PGRs organises the annual Departmental Postgraduate Colloquium,
 a one-day event in which all PGRs are encouraged to give presentations (including shorter,
 'flash presentations' by MA by Research students) before an evening keynote lecture. Speakers
 over the assessment period have included distinguished scholars such as Laura Mulvey,
 Griselda Pollock, and Sofia Psarra.

 Skills Development and Careers
 Professional training is fully integrated into the PhD programme, with all research students
 required to participate in at least five days of training each year, this being monitored at the
 annual review. The Department co-runs 'Ways of Working', a cross-School training programme
 that enables PGRs to engage with their wider cohort and to participate in a series of skill-specific
 training sessions. These are focused on developing the skills necessary within the PhD (such as
 'Preparing for Upgrade' and 'Working with your Supervisor'), in academia more broadly ('Sharing
 Research: Public Engagement' and 'Publishing a Journal Article'), and preparing for careers both
 inside and outside academia ('The Job Market: Thinking Internationally'). Recent destinations
 and careers for doctoral graduates have included postdoctoral positions in Finland and
 Germany, a Lectureship in French Film at Bristol, and a Lectureship in Spanish, also at Bristol.

 Increased awareness of the mental health challenges faced by students has resulted in the
 addition of a session on 'Taking Care of Self in the PhD Process' and the Department is
 participating in the Doctoral School’s PGR Mental Health Working Group to develop ways of
 offering further support to PGRs. The Department’s commitment to excellence in both research
 and teaching has seen us develop a stepped programme for PGR students, established in 2016,
 which sees them gain practical experience and complete the College’s postgraduate teaching
 certificate (INSTIL), and also benefit from shadowing staff in the Department.

 These initiatives complement the Researcher Development Programme, an initiative led by the
 Doctoral School consisting of both online training sessions and events run at both Royal
 Holloway campuses. Each year our PGR students also participate in the long-running
 Postgraduate Research Training Programme run by the IMLR in central London.

 2c. Equality and Diversity

 Supporting Career Pathways



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Royal Holloway actively endorses the seven principles outlined in the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and has policies and practices at both institutional and
 departmental level designed to facilitate full implementation of these principles. These include:
 mandatory equal opportunities training for all members of selection panels, equitable treatment
 for part-time and fixed-term staff, and an equitable promotions process. Extensive staff
 development opportunities are offered to all research staff and there is a comprehensive annual
 equality and diversity data-monitoring and review exercise. The College Equality and Diversity
 Committee reports to Council and has two sub-groups; an Equal Opportunities Adviser is
 responsible for coordinating the development of EO matters. Moreover, Royal Holloway
 publishes a bi-annual equality monitoring report that analyses employment patterns in terms of
 gender, disability, ethnicity, nationality and age. Additional evidence of our commitment to EDI
 and supporting staff professionally and in their career development:

    •   We have thriving staff diversity networks in which Departmental colleagues play an active
        role - LGBT+ Network; Women’s Network; Staff Disability Forum; Cultural Diversity
        Network.
    •   The School steering group’s meetings are attended by the central E&D team who
        support the networks in terms of action planning and implementation.
    •   A range of further EDI training opportunities including Active Bystander Training, Bullying
        and Harassment training for Managers, Disability Awareness, Introduction to Trans
        Awareness, Safe Zone training.
    •   The aforementioned Women’s Enhancement Programme has seen tangible benefits for
        the gender balance among the numbers of professors in the Department (there are four
        female and four male professors in the REF2021 submission).
    •   Colleagues on part-time contracts have full access to the promotions pathway, with
        appropriately adjusted expectations and criteria.

 The Department is committed to providing a flexible, supportive structure and atmosphere,
 allowing full parity and ensuring that staff work productively regardless of circumstances or
 characteristics. Royal Holloway offers all staff the option of applying for flexible working
 arrangements – for example for colleagues with childcare or other caring responsibilities; health
 issues or disabilities; educational or training commitments. The Head of Department (currently
 Wright) oversees this process in close consultation with Human Resources, and there are
 currently 6 members of Category A staff with such arrangements in place. Likewise, staff who
 choose or are forced to take periods of leave, for example parental or sick leave, are not
 required to return to a full work load – through a process of consultation such colleagues usually
 return with an agreed, reduced load and only gradually resume full duties.

 Enabling Equal Opportunities for Promotion and Enhancement
 Equality and diversity are also embedded into internal processes relevant to Research:
 applications for both promotion and sabbatical leave are submitted anonymously and considered
 impartially by appropriate, balanced panels (Promotions Committee / School Research
 Committee); Staff with disabilities or other protected criteria may apply for appropriate support
 for research, including but not limited to software packages and IT hardware, and financial
 support for research and conference travel and/or accommodation above the usual maximum
 guaranteed to all staff.

 Recruitment to senior research-leadership roles takes place via an open process and is
 conducted with the above principles of equality and diversity in mind. Many of these roles are,
 for example, currently held by female staff members (including Head of School, Head of

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department, School Research Lead, School Director of Graduate Studies, Departmental Impact
 Lead) at various career stages (from Senior Lecturer to Professor). Colleagues occupying senior
 roles are diverse in terms of their national and linguistic backgrounds, working arrangements
 and personal characteristics.

 Our commitment to equality and diversity extends to all aspects of teaching and research. We
 actively encourage and help develop research projects involving diversity and related ethical and
 political questions. Race, gender, sexuality, disability, animal rights, environmental catastrophe
 and colonial and postcolonial issues figure in the research of staff and research students. For
 example, current PGR Renee Landell’s work examining racist stereotypes and responses to
 them in Caribbean literature is complemented by her activism and a public profile that has seen
 her emerge as a distinctive commentator on the Black Lives Matter movement.

 Equality and Diversity in our REF2021 submission

 We have followed Royal Holloway’s REF2021 code of practice and worked with staff to identify
 relevant special circumstances. Our processes have ensured that EDI imperatives have been
 met in the REF outputs selection process, which has involved blind reading by an external
 reviewer and a gender-balanced internal selection panel. All staff involved in the REF2021
 documentation and decision-making have taken mandatory training on unconscious bias.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 3a. Strategies for Generating Research Income and Funding

 Our policy is to encourage innovative and ambitious research grant applications of all types and
 sizes, from staff at all career stages. We have seen this approach secure funding for
 groundbreaking projects that are redefining research agendas in areas such as world cinema,
 contemporary art and photography, and critical theory. Our strategy to achieve this includes the
 following stages:

    •   Staff use the annual review of research to plan and reflect on plans for funding
        applications;
    •   They take advantage in the planning stage of a process of peer-review and feedback,
        with all applications submitted in draft to Research Committee;
    •   They receive structured support from Research and Innovation, including at the pre-
        Award stage, who co-ordinate further relevant training and knowledge-sharing.

 This approach has led to success in a very competitive environment, with awards from funders
 including the AHRC, British Academy and the Leverhulme Trust made to both senior colleagues
 and ECRs. Many of these projects received support in the planning stages from the College’s
 Research Strategy Fund, which awards funding of up to £5k, a quarter of which is paid by the
 Department, as start-up funding for research and impact projects. Over the assessment period
 Department awards totalling more than £14k from this source have been made to staff including
 Thompson (successful in her application for an AHRC Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Fellowship starting in 2021), Hemus, Robertson, and Pieri.

 During the assessment period significant grants, both large and small, have been awarded. Pieri
 is PI on the major international project, ‘Interdisciplinary Italy 1900-2020: Interart/Intermedia’,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for which the total award is £700,000 (£250k to Royal Holloway when Pieri took over as PI in
 September 2017). Wright was PI on the Leverhulme-funded international network project
 ‘Childhood and Nation in World Cinema: Borders and Encounters since 1980’, which was
 awarded over £100k and ran from 2014 and 2017. Wright’s co-edited volume, Childhood and
 Nation in Contemporary World Cinema: Borders and Encounters (Bloomsbury 2018), was one
 output of the project.

 A particular feature of the period has been the success of ECRs in gaining external funding. Kent
 successfully applied to the funding stream made available through the interdisciplinary research
 project ‘Multilingualism: Empowering Individuals, Transforming Societies’ (led by the University
 of Cambridge as part of the AHRC’s flagship Open World Research Initiative) to support his work
 on ‘“¡Yo soy Fidel!”: Post-Castro Cuba and the Cult of Personality’. Sands received a British
 Academy Rising Star award for ‘Posthumanities: Redefining Humanities for the Fourth Industrial
 Age’, and from 2020-22 Sands is Co-Investigator for the AHRC network 'The Philosophical Life
 of Plants'. Phillips’s Leverhulme ECR Fellowship covers 50% (approximately £50k) of his full-
 time salary over three years. Among our individual, researcher-led projects, Wilson received a
 Small Research Grant from the British Academy/Leverhulme Foundation (worth over £4k) to
 cover the cost of archival research for his book on the history of the Goethe Society (Goethe-
 Gesellschaft in Weimar) in the Weimar Republic and 'Third Reich', which was published by the
 trade press DTV (Munich) in August 2018.

 The research is also supported by sources not reported in HESA returns. In 2019 Thompson and
 Kent led a photography and Creative Audio Description workshop in Havana, Cuba internally
 funded by Royal Holloway’s Global Challenges Research Fund scheme. The workshop was part
 of an ongoing project which addresses United Nations sustainable development goals. Wilson
 was awarded the Reimar Lust Award of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation for International
 Scholarly and Cultural Exchange, worth €60,000. Davis was part of the ‘Narrative and Memory:
 Ethics, Aesthetics, Politics’ study circle, funded by the Nordic Council of Ministers (2016-2019);
 and he is a member of two other research networks funded respectively by the Academy of
 Finland, and the research councils of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. He was
 Visiting Professor at the University of Turku, Finland (2018-2019). Cruickshank was PI for a
 project (‘Food with Feeling’) which received £2k seed funding from Royal Holloway’s allocation
 from the Higher Education Innovation Fund; and Thompson was PI on a project, ‘Multisensory
 Museums’, which was awarded £5k from the same fund. Robertson was awarded an Arp
 International Research Fellowship to the value of €3,600 for archival research in Berlin. In 2019-
 20, Harris was the recipient of a Marie Curie/ Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies award
 worth €40,000. Jossa has held visiting positions at the ETH (Polytechnic of Zurich, 2017), the
 University of Parma (2017) and the University of Roma Tre (2018).

 3b. Organisational, Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure / Impact activities

 As detailed in REF 5a, Royal Holloway has invested heavily in infrastructure and services during
 the current assessment period, with ambitious new buildings and facilities and a recently
 restructured Research and Innovation Department. The new library, housed in the Emily Wilding
 Davison Building, opened in 2017 and is designed to support research at all levels. The Building
 is also home to Royal Holloway’s Exhibition Space and the College’s archives. The former has
 hosted two exhibitions co-curated by departmental staff to date (Mayo, 2017; Kent, 2019), while
 in 2020 Jossa was awarded a British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grant to study

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Royal Holloway’s Ridolfi Collection, held in the archives and one of the most important
 collections of letters from the Italian Renaissance owned by a British university library.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 4a. Research Collaborations

 Networking and collaboration, both nationally and internationally, play an increasingly important
 role in our research practice. These partnerships are to responding to ethical challenges,
 redefining traditional boundaries between the arts and sciences, and enabling conversations
 that speak to global agendas and break down some of the perceived differences between
 ‘Eastern’ and ‘Western’ perspectives.

 The AHRC network 'The Philosophical Life of Plants', for which Sands is Co-I, takes inspiration
 from Goethe’s Die Metamorphose der Pflanzen and is making a strikingly original contribution to
 the research agenda in the environmental humanities. The network involves a groundbreaking,
 original collaboration between academic investigators, the Goethe-Archiv and the Royal Botanic
 Gardens at Kew. Phillips was postdoctoral collaborator on ‘Affective Dynamics and Aesthetic
 Emotions’ at the Swiss Center for Affective Sciences, Geneva. Thompson was a member of the
 CNRS-funded research consortium TETMOST (Toucher et Êre Touché. Musées, Oeuvres et
 Sensibilité Tactile) with partners in Lyon, Paris and Rouen (20017-19) and is currently associate
 researcher on a French National Research Agency project 'Inclusive Museum Guide’. Wright’s
 Leverhulme-funded international network involved Co-Is in Australia and China. Pieri’s AHRC
 project also involves broad international collaboration, with individuals and institutions in Ireland,
 Italy, USA.

 Our research culture is further enhanced by formal connections with international researchers
 who have visited and presented in the Department, and with whom we have co-published, co-
 organised and collaborated in a range of activities: Dr Harriet O’Neil, currently Assistant Director
 at the British School at Rome, is an Honorary Research Associate; Dr Helena Duffy was a
 Marie Curie Research Fellow attached to the Holocaust Research Institute, working on French
 Holocaust fiction (August 2016-July 2018); Dr Federico Di Santo, a Marie Curie Research
 Fellow at the Freie Universität in Berlin, was a Visiting Scholar in 2018; Professor Hanna
 Meretoja, from the University of Turku, became a Visiting Research Fellow. Professor
 Emanuela Piga Bruni (University of Bologna) was a Visiting Research Professor in Comparative
 Literature, delivering the inaugural research seminar in the School of Humanities in October
 2019.

 4b. Research Beneficiaries and Contributions to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Many of our research collaborations have integral elements of public engagement and
 knowledge exchange, and aim to benefit society beyond the academic framework of the
 projects. Pieri’s AHRC-funded project emerged from a smaller AHRC networking grant
 (‘Interdisciplinary Italy 1900-2015: art, music, text’) which ran from 2012 to 2014. The ambitious
 project has reassessed 20th-century Italian cultural history through an inter-artistic and
 interdisciplinary lens. It has had an educational impact through collaboration with a cluster of UK
 schools and secondary school teachers, leading to the production of new teaching resources
 and a range of cross-curricular activities. As part of the project, Pieri curated an exhibition at the


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art, London: ‘The Making of Modern Italy: Art and Design in
 the Early 1960s’ (Jan-April 2019). This is a further example, alongside the comparable work of
 Hemus and Robertson (see REF 3), of our interdisciplinary research facilitating engagement with
 a wider, non-academic audience and creating an impact on cultural life.

 Thompson’s expertise in Critical Disability Studies has led to the ‘Describing Diversity’ project
 (April 2019-June 2020) which produced open-access guidelines for the audio description of
 human characteristics such as age, gender, disability, race and ethnicity. The work, sponsored
 by VocalEyes and Shakespeare’s Globe, and further supported by an institutional Research
 Strategy Fund award, has generated tangible impacts – it has been cited as a key influence in
 the development of ITV’s Audio-Description policy. It was a direct result of the conference
 Thompson organised, ‘Blind Creations’ (2015) (funded by Royal Holloway, the Wellcome Trust
 and the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council) which enabled a series of
 dialogues between blind and non-blind participants, including audio describers, access
 professionals, allies, artists and advocates as well as academics. She has developed this
 interest further in her activism-centred research which led to the creation of a pioneering project
 to enhance accessibility to the College’s art collection through ‘crowdsourced’ audio-
 descriptions, as well as significant consultancies to public institutions, including the Centre for
 Access to Football in Europe (CAFE) and the Donmar Warehouse Theatre, which produced an
 accessible and socially distanced audio installation of Saramago’s Blindness in August 2020.

 Kent’s co-curated 2019 exhibition at Royal Holloway, ‘This is Cuba: Documentary Photography
 after Fidel’ showcased work by world-renowned photographers such as Raúl Cañibano and
 Michael Christopher Brown. It was accompanied by a series of talks and workshops including:
 masterclasses with Cañibano, curator’s talks, and workshops with other academics, practitioners
 and specialists. It led to a follow-up exhibition at the Photographers’ Gallery London, one of the
 most important forums for photography in the UK. ‘Raúl Cañibano: Chronicles of an Island’, for
 which Kent acted as Exhibition Liaison, ran September-November 2019.

 Jossa’s book, La più bella del mondo (Turin: Einaudi 2018), was written for a general audience
 to celebrate the Italian language. The book has been widely reviewed in press and media, and
 presented across Europe at a remarkable range of public, academic and other institutions (for
 example, the Italian Cultural Institute in London, Brussels and Dublin, the Casa delle letterature
 in Rome, the Festival of Italian Language in Siena). The book also reached a very different
 audience via a presentation at one of Italy’s major prisons, the Istituto Penitenziario di
 Secondigliano (Naples).

 Wilson’s work on Goethe and the Goethe Society has reached a broad audience and been
 instrumental in challenging and changing public understanding of Germany’s most celebrated
 author. His most recent book on the Goethe Society in the Nazi years, Der faustische Pakt:
 Goethe und die Goethe-Gesellschaft im Dritten Reich (2018), was widely and positively
 reviewed in major German national newspapers such as the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung,
 where Christoph Perels remarked that the book ‘forces’ the Goethe Society to face its past (28
 September 2018). In response to Wilson’s work, the Goethe Society revised the account of its
 own history published on its website with explicit reference to the book.

 In the summer of 2020, in an initiative supported by the Centre for Visual Cultures as part of its
 response to the challenge posed by the global pandemic, Haddu collaborated with the Mexican

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic and photographer Francisco Mata Rosas (Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana,
 Mexico) to create ‘Covida’, an expansive, interactive online exhibition responding to the global
 impact of COVID-19. A launch event for the exhibition was held on 31 July 2020 and the
 exhibition continues to attract widespread, global attention and responses.

 These major interventions go together with a wide range of smaller but no less important public
 engagement and impact activities, many of which have a particular focus on the promotion of
 the study of Modern Languages in UK schools and sixth-form colleges. This is true, for
 example, of the Wright’s co-ordination of annual series of study days focused on Spanish
 cinema at the BFI Southbank, an initiative to be followed by Hughes with an equivalent day for
 German cinema in 2021. In 2019 Wright was a panellist for BBC Radio 4’s ‘In Our Time’, a
 popular programme with reach into school curricula. Likewise Cruickshank’s work as judge for
 the Scott Moncrieff Prize for Translation (2019-2019) and plenary lectures at the Prince’s
 Teaching Institute Newly-Qualified Teachers Day (2014, 2015); De Donno’s co-organisation of
 a screening of the documentary film Io sto con la sposa (Gabriele Del Grande, 2014) at the
 Bertha Dochouse (Curzon Bloomsbury, London), followed by a Q&A with the filmmaker (2016),
 and Haddu’s organisation of a Mexican Film Evening at the National Museum of Mexican Visual
 Culture (2014) have all given diverse audiences access to our research. Harris’s research on
 the transgender spy the Chevalier d'Eon has inspired a play, Chevalier d'Eon, by a Sony-
 Award-winning playwright that has been performed in Cambridge and Oxford, whilst Hughes’
 interdisciplinary work on sport and culture has seen him interviewed for a podcast, and he has
 disseminated his work via articles in online publications such as The Conversation and Playing
 Pasts. Jeremiah’s works as translator and co-translator, one of which was long-listed for the
 Man Booker International Prize 2016, have attracted attention in the press and public media; in
 2017 Mayo co-curated a public exhibition of the work of the Spanish photographer Manuel G.
 Vicente, ‘Hospitality on the Pilgrim Road to Santiago de Compostela’, in Royal Holloway’s
 Exhibition Space, part-funded by the Xacobeo Foundation (Spain); Sands’ contribution to the
 Nuffield Council on Bioethics consultation on genome editing, as well as her organisation of ten
 public engagements annually for the Forum of Philosophy at the LSE, demonstrate how our
 public-engagement work crosses disciplinary boundaries. This is by no means a comprehensive
 list but is intended to give a sense of the extent and range of outward-facing activities in which
 our staff are playing a leading role.

 4c. Contributions to the Research Base

 We have contributed to the research base by engaging in dialogue with researchers across the
 world who share our interests in, for example, visual cultures, comparative literature, world
 literature and film, and critical disability studies. Our research has strengthened understanding of
 the relationship between language and visual cultures, and of comparative literature and world
 cinema, leading to invitations to give keynote and plenary papers at international conferences in
 Glasgow (Robertson, 2014), London (Pieri 2014), Nancy (Robertson, 2014), Dublin (Jossa,
 2015), Copenhagen (Jossa, 2016), Liverpool (Hemus, 2016), Dallas (2018), Lisbon (Wright,
 2019). Thompson’s groundbreaking work in critical disability studies has seen her give keynotes
 in Belfast (2014), Paris-Sorbonne (2015), Winnipeg (2015) and St Andrews (2019).

 Our staff have examined doctorates around the UK and in the US, France, Belgium, Norway,
 Finland, Italy, and Australia; they have played leading roles in the organisation of conferences,
 panels and seminars, and have assessed for numerous journals, publishers and funding bodies,

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with several member of staff serving, for example, on the AHRC peer review college (Davis,
 Harris, Pieri, Robertson, Williams, Wright).

 Journal editorship and involvement with learned societies have featured strongly in our activities.
 Cruickshank was Honorary Treasurer of the Society for French Studies (2015-2018) and is on
 the editorial board of French Cultural Studies. Davis was Chair of Legenda until 2016; and he is
 on the advisory board of French Studies. Harris is Co-editor of French Studies. Jeremiah serves
 on the advisory board of Women: A Cultural Review, the editorial Board of Studies in
 Contemporary Women’s Writing, and the Advisory Committee of Avain. Jossa is on the editorial
 board of the Journal for Romance Studies and Studi giraldiani. Leesix is on the editorial board of
 the Journal for Romance Studies and the advisory board of Hispanic Research Journal. Pieri is
 senior co-editor of Italian Studies and is commissioning editor for two series published by
 University of Wales Press (Studies in Visual Culture and International Crime Fictions). She has
 served on the UCML executive committee (2016-2019), on the executive committee of the
 Association for the Study of Modern Italy (2016-2019) and the Society of Italian Studies (2013-
 2021). Robertson is a member of the international advisory board of The Wenshan Review of
 Literature and Culture and a member of the editorial board of Helvetica, and was a member of
 the executive committee of the Society for French Studies (2014-2017). Sands is on the editorial
 board of New Comparative Criticism and the executive committee of the Society for European
 Philosophy. Thompson has edited issues of Disability Studies Quarterly and Revue Canadienne
 des études sur le handicap. Williams is General Editor of Studies in French Cinema and
 contributing editor to Film Quarterly. Wilson is editor of Publications of the English Goethe
 Society and Honorary Secretary of the English Goethe Society. Wright is Associate Editor of
 Bulletin of Spanish Studies and Bulletin of Spanish Visual Studies, and is on the editorial board
 of Journal of Gender Studies. Wright was also Association Secretary of the Association of
 Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland from 2012-2017. This collective commitment to
 scholarship demonstrates how we work to sustain and develop our discipline.




                                                                                            Page 16
