Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 33 – Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure
 UoA 33 comprises 7 FTE submitted staff, all of whom sit within the School of Arts and Creative
 Industries (SACI). All staff are members of the Humanities and Cultures subject area, one of
 three subject areas within the School. This subject area incorporates staff from the fields of
 English, publishing, acting, and music and includes staff submitted to three Units of Assessment
 (27, 33, 34). All submitted UoA 33 staff are members of the Applied Music Research Centre
 (AMRC), one of five research centres in the School, which also includes a researcher who
 although not significantly responsible for research, contributes to the research culture of the
 centre (Dempster). Until his retirement in June 2020, Paul Ferguson, was a significant figure
 within the Centre, and his contributions are mentioned in this narrative.

 The Head of Subject Area (Medbøe, UoA 34) and the Centre Director (Hails) work together to
 provide leadership to the AMRC. They balance the priorities of the School and researchers, and
 oversee strategic support for individual projects and staff. Responsibilities include; the allocation
 of appropriate research time for agreed objectives, financial support for conference attendance
 and training, alignment of teaching and research, and an integrated approach to line
 management.

 Music research is carried out by a focused group of staff and students in AMRC. The principal
 strands of the grouping are in composition and in popular music education, but technology,
 performance, and community building are also important areas. Most researchers are active as
 performers, and come from industry rather than from traditional academic routes. As such, the
 emphasis tends to be on applied and practical research.

 Unit Strategy 2014-2021
 Edinburgh Napier University (ENU) did not submit staff to UoA 35 in REF 2014. As a result, this
 period has been one where the primary focus has been building critical mass and areas of
 research excellence. Since 2014, the broad focus has been to invest in developmental support
 and time allowances for staff to enable them to undertake high quality research, publish high
 quality outputs, build networks and collaborations in their fields, and improve their research
 toolkits.

 Existing strengths in composition have been consolidated through peer-sharing of practice and
 engagement with wider networks. For example, members (Hails, Moir) have participated in the
 RMA Music and/as Process study group (2018 annual conference held at ENU), and the 21st
 Century Music Practice Research Network.

 This engagement with external audiences has been nurtured for composers and creatives
 through strategic partnerships. Researchers have been supported to build new, and contribute to
 existing, communities of audiences and communities of practice. This reflects an emerging
 theme across SACI, and in the emerging Communities and Culture research theme of the
 University.

 Partners have included; the Scottish Book Trust, the Doors Open Edinburgh festival, the Scottish
 Book Festival, Diabetes UK, and the Alba New Music festival. A key partnership in the period
 has emerged via the establishment of a concert series titled Old Town/New Music (Harris,
 Hails, Moir, Medbøe). This concert series is one element of a sustained engagement with the
 Culture and Heritage department of St Giles’ Cathedral Edinburgh, to bring new music into the
 building of the High Kirk.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Popular music pedagogy has been a vital emerging theme in the period, and as a result the Unit
 recruited a researcher with both the drive and the experience to lead this forward (Moir). The
 growth of this areas has led to a number of collaborations and networking opportunities which
 have resulted in a close working relationship with the APME (Association for Popular Music
 Education). The APME have scheduled their 2021(rescheduled from 2020) international
 conference at our Merchiston campus.

 To improve the quality of research outputs in the period, experienced senior researchers in SACI
 have mentored members of the Unit in the development of publications and conference papers.
 To support this aim, staff were encouraged and empowered to present their research in a series
 of internal seminars which were then shared in video form on our website.

 The Unit has built capacity for postgraduate supervision by strategic management of supervisory
 teams, collaboration across HEIs, and strategic recruitment. In 2014 only one staff member in
 AMRC had the necessary experience to act as director of studies. In 2020, six out of seven
 members of staff submitted in this unit are engaged in supervising research degree students.
 This increased capacity has been enhanced with the announcement of the first Ian Tomlin PhD
 Scholarship in October 2020, which will be an annual fee waiver awarded to a student for the
 duration of their studies. AMRC staff are currently supervising three MRes students, and seven
 PhD students, which demonstrates a significant growth in PGR supervision from 2014.

 Technical support has been provided to researchers by a team of experienced specialist staff,
 who assist and inform engagement with resources for installations, live performance, and media
 dissemination. The implementation of multi-site telematic performance and rehearsal software
 and hardware has been developed by close collaboration between academic and technical staff.
 This has resulted in a range of applications for research, including the outputs linked to the LoLa
 impact case study, and the Making Connections project involving Burton and Dempster.

 Unit Strategy 2021-2026
 The School and Unit are committed to the University’s overarching research strategy as outlined
 in the REF5a. Future school strategies are informed by the institutions five-year focus on staff
 development, increasing innovation, and developing international research partnerships, and
 aim to feed into the broad strategic aims of the University.

 In the next five years, we aim to significantly improve the quality and number of our outputs. The
 2021 APME conference at ENU will help to cement the Unit’s role in leading popular music
 pedagogy in the UK and internationally. In alignment with the Internationalisation pillar of the
 University research strategy, we will also establish at least one strategic international partnership
 to ensure that future work is truly global in its outlook and impact.

 Under the new University theme of Culture and Communities, Unit staff will support the
 academic discourse around non-commercial and experimental composition and creativity with
 the launch of a hybrid journal and record label called Unpopular Music. This will be available as
 online content and print dissemination. Proposals for online seminars to supplement existing
 conference activities will be submitted to practice-based networks starting with those with whom
 staff already have existing links. Reciprocal relationships with other experimental practitioners in
 academic institutions will be formalised to engender an active year-round programme of
 activities in multiple sites. Again, in alignment with the REF5a strategy, at least one strategic
 international partnership will be formed to ensure that dissemination and future collaborations
 can embrace global narratives and discourse around creative practice in music.

 External relationships and collaborations have been key to many projects in the period. Where
 possible, these relationships will be furthered through joint funding applications in the next five
 years, to foster closer connectivity and a collaborative approach to reaching relevant
 stakeholders. Exciting work in partnership with the Scottish Book Trust and the Edinburgh Book
 Festival, which has taken one of our researchers into schools and prisons, will be further


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported by bringing together strands of interdisciplinary research across the School in more
 informal research units.

 During the 2014-2020 period, significant innovation and testing in low latency connectivity for
 music performance using LoLa and Visimeet, in collaboration with twelve UK and international
 Universities and Conservatoires, has resulted in a specialist research infrastructure that provides
 high performance unrestricted access to worldwide research and education networks. Staff will
 be supported and encouraged to make use of this infrastructure to extend the reach and
 significance of activity, particularly in a post-pandemic environment in which the drive to reduce
 academics’ carbon footprints remains as vital as ever. The Unit will seek to utilise the new
 University Innovation Hub for opportunities to increase external engagement with collaborating
 partners.

 In alignment with the University commitment to supporting people, continuing to build the AMRC
 research population will remain high on the agenda. Colleagues will be encouraged to include
 support for new PhD students, postdoctoral students, and research assistants in funding
 applications wherever possible, to both build critical mass and to embed collaboration and
 connectivity at the heart of all research projects. This is supported by the SACI plan to build
 postgraduate research numbers. The new MA Music, launched in September 2020, will also act
 as an important feeder for PGR admissions.

 Enabling Impact
 Engaging a wider public and engaging with partners beyond the academy is a significant part of
 much of the research that is carried out in the Centre. Partnerships with the Cockburn Trust’s
 Edinburgh and East Lothian Doors Open Days, the Heritage and Culture department of St Giles’
 Cathedral Edinburgh, the Alba New Music Festival, Diabetes UK, and Unique Event’s Burns &
 Beyond festival have allowed researchers to bring compositions and installations to a public far
 beyond the confines of the University.

 Research around access to music education and the gap between high school and university
 (Stillie) has been underpinned by a close relationship with high school educators. This has been
 enabled through the development of research, public engagement, and CPD projects with
 schools, local educational authorities, the National Museum of Scotland, and Newbattle Abbey
 College. These projects have formed a part of staff development and objective setting, and will
 continue to form an important part of our remit in the years to come. Moving forward, we aim to
 extend our range of connections to include English schools and LEAs, and to use our technical
 resources to further explore the potential for educational research by using video and audio low
 latency connections.

 Close professional ties with industry leaders in the world of software and hardware such as Avid
 and Roland are integrated into both our teaching and learning and research strategies. This
 ensures that our facilities and staff are prepared in the latest versions of industry-standard
 production and performance equipment, and enables our staff to input into the R&D process for
 these firms. All staff are also encouraged and supported to make use of low latency video and
 audio software such as Visimeet and LoLa, and to engage with existing communities as well as
 developing frameworks for new ones.

 Both submitted impact case studies are a direct result of the Unit's approach to supporting
 impact. Harris’ Church Music case study has arisen from a close collaboration with St Giles’
 Cathedral Edinburgh, made possible by a long-standing partnership with the Church of Scotland.
 As well as leading to financial, reputational and commercial benefit to the Cathedral and Church,
 this relationship has also enabled us to develop a number of the relationships mentioned above.

 The second impact case study grows directly out of Ferguson’s industry experience in sound
 production and networked audio. Through collaboration with other users of LOLA and industry
 partners, Ferguson has been able to improve the use of the software for a number of high-
 profile virtual live music events, particularly relevant in the COVID-19 crisis.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Supporting Interdisciplinarity
 SACI’s five research centres are situated on the same (Merchiston) campus, which has allowed
 for close dialogues between staff across arts disciplines. Staff are supported to develop projects
 with colleagues in areas including; design, film, acting, and lighting. These projects have
 resulted in exciting public engagement events and artefacts, and collaborative funding bids to
 extend these relationships to create tangible research outputs are underway. In 2018, Dempster
 led a small group of musicians as part of an AHRC-funded research project entitled ‘A Night at
 Stobs’ to recreate a First World War Lustspielabend held in 1918 at the internment camp in
 Hawick. This was a collaboration with colleagues in our Centre for Literature and Writing (UoA
 27) and Aston University. Burton’s collaboration with staff from the Art and Design Research
 Centre (UoA 32) in 2018 resulted in limited edition 3D printed models and digitally printed
 badges incorporating elements of the composition written for St Gabriel’s Chapel, Edinburgh.
 Hails is currently working on a collaboration with Holmes (UoA32) that will result in a sound/film
 installation.

 Restructuring of subject areas within the School will enable and empower staff to engage in new
 partnerships which will enliven and inspire our research and teaching experiences. The new
 subject area of Screen and Performing Arts will no doubt shape our submissions to any future
 research framework, as well as informing the directions that our interdisciplinary and
 collaborative research will take. Research infrastructure is periodically reviewed within the
 School and University structures, and we are currently developing proposals that enhance
 research collaborations and the sharing of good practice.

 The establishment of small research groups within the School research infrastructure to enable
 interdisciplinary work will be especially valuable. This will support the existing collaborations with
 our computing colleagues around the LoLa project, and allow researchers to develop work with
 colleagues in English, in particular around poetry composition and analysis within the context of
 hip-hop performance and production, and creative engagements with prison inmates. These new
 structures will support these interdisciplinary collaborations in a more dynamic and agile fashion
 than is currently possible.

 The campus is also the home of the School of Computing (SoC), and Unit staff are encouraged
 and supported to collaborate with colleagues in the School. The Creative Informatics centre
 resides in SACI, and is a space for collaboration between the two disciplines. A result of such
 collaborations was the AHRC funded project ‘ENSEMBLE Performing Together Apart:
 Enhancing Immersive Multi-Location Co-Performance in Real Time’ in 2018 (Ferguson, Hook,
 and Mival, Helgason from UoA11).

 Supporting an Open Research Environment
 Much of the research in the last seven years has culminated in chapters within edited volumes,
 which makes open access particularly difficult without circumventing contracts with publishers.
 Staff have been encouraged to write up conference papers and make them available for public
 access wherever possible, to ensure that research findings are accessible.

 Other research outputs involve performances of music that either depend upon commercial
 sales or upon professional non-academic performers. This restricts the open dissemination of
 such outputs due to intellectual property (IP) rights, but staff in the Unit have made composed
 scores available using the University repository, and have recently been moving towards open
 access of the underpinning research and sketch material using the Mahara e-portfolio platform.

 Value is added to conference papers by the incorporation of supporting research, plans, and
 multimedia. This process of archiving a developing research narrative through successive
 conference presentations, and their role in leading to a final published book chapter, may result
 in these two modes of dissemination coming together. In the next five years, we will aim to adopt
 this as common practice for all music academic staff, and to integrate this into our research


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 management system, allowing us to share this good practice across the sector through our
 existing networks.

 Supporting Research Integrity
 The School Research Integrity committee considers and advises on specific ethical frameworks,
 obligations, and standards as they apply to research within the Unit. The School lead for
 Research Integrity frequently supplements the University Research Innovation and Enterprise
 team’s training and support. Important developments within the field are also cascaded down
 through the School Research and Innovation Committee.

 Within music, research integrity has become a fundamental aspect of much undergraduate
 teaching. It is a core aspect of a compulsory module at an early stage, ensuring that staff and
 students are all fully familiar with the importance of consent, discrimination, and accessibility.
 This is reinforced throughout undergraduate programmes up to and including the final major
 project module, and is a fundamental principle of the MA Music programme launched in
 September 2020. The centrality of research integrity and ethics to our taught provision underpins
 the unit’s application of these tenets and values to our research supervision and activities.

 Legal ramifications of IP and licensing are discussed in industry-centred teaching to train
 undergraduate students to responsibly and entrepreneurially negotiate professional careers after
 graduation. The professional experience of Unit staff also forms a core framework of knowledge
 and advice which is shared in peer-to-peer review and support.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 All Category A eligible staff in the unit are permanent staff members, and they come from two
 different disciplinary teams; music and acting. Eight staff members are at grade 6 (lecturer role;
 67% of population), and four staff members are at grade 7 (senior lecturer/associate professor
 role; 33% of population). Two members of staff fall into the definition of early career researchers
 as defined by the REF (17% of population).

 Seven members (58%) of the Category A pool of staff are submitted to the Unit. Four members
 of staff are at grade 6 (lecturer role; 57% of submitted staff) and three members of staff are at
 grade 7 (senior lecturer/associate professor role; 43% of submitted staff).

 Staff turn-over in UoA33 is relatively modest and only one staff appointment was made during
 the census period. Research was a key part of this appointment (Moir), and expertise in the
 developing theme of popular music pedagogy was identified as a key requirement. Since his
 appointment, he has co-authored book chapters and journal articles with a significant number of
 his Centre colleagues, many of which are submitted as part of this Unit’s submission.

 Short-term appointments within the Unit tend to be teaching-only roles due to the necessity of
 covering particular areas of teaching specialism, or unexpected staff illness or secondment.
 Where these roles are taken up by staff developing as researchers, the opportunity is taken (as
 noted above) to mentor and develop them as part of the line management process. Research is
 very firmly linked to teaching in the Unit, and a recent review and rewrite of undergraduate
 provision for Music has resulted in even tighter links, as has the launch of a Master’s
 programme.

 Staff Development
 Within the Unit there is a range of experience, encompassing staff members with strong
 teaching careers, and strong careers as creative practitioners. The increasing focus on research
 in the last seven years means many have engaged with research for the first time. Centre
 strategy has supported frameworks and methodologies that reveal the research implied by
 teaching and creative practice, rather than imposing new angles of activity on staff members.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Career development in the allocation of time, resources, and training for research is regarded as
 important across all career stages, with different forms of support viewed as critical at different
 points in each researcher’s journey. This has included coaching and mentoring, co-authoring
 approaches, and targeted support for covering teaching responsibilities in order to free up time
 for research.

 Informal coaching and mentoring relationships have been established to develop research
 capacity, and to unlock the research potential in staff who considered themselves restricted to
 teaching alone. One member of staff (Hails) has received SEDA accredited mentoring and
 coaching training, and has worked particularly with line managers to ensure that good practice is
 cascaded and mirrored wherever possible.

 Some of these relationships have been short-term and linked to specific projects, but others
 have been longer-term and have taken a more holistic view of the researcher. Members of staff
 on fixed term contracts during the course of the assessment period have benefited from close
 mentoring relationships, which have led to postdoctoral employment (Orpheus Institute, Ghent)
 or academic positions (Northumbria University, Royal Conservatoire of Scotland). Moir has
 taken a proactive role in collaborating with colleagues working towards their first publication, and
 first conference presentations which has led to the strong representation of the Centre at the
 APME conference in New York, as well as in the Bloomsbury Handbook of Popular Music
 Education. This relationship has also reinforced the establishment of strategic network
 development for individual members of staff and for the centre as a whole.

 The integration of experienced members of the School professoriate into the staff development
 process has been particularly useful. A very experienced member of the School professoriate
 has worked closely with individual staff members writing for publication for the first time such as
 Hook, offering advice on methodology, and reviewing successive drafts. Another member of the
 professoriate offers a regular surgery to discuss publication strategies and career development.

 Staff all take part in annual My Contribution progress reviews as outlined in the REF5a, and
 through these researcher development and funded research time are managed appropriately. All
 line managers and researchers are also encouraged to engage with the Vitae Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers in order to best focus staff development time.
 Managing research development time is particularly valuable for new researchers, to ensure that
 protected time is devoted to the development of research skills before committing to objective-
 linked research time.

 Budget for research activity is handled by the AMRC, with a set sum released to the director at
 the start of each academic year. Conference attendance is prioritised to the most effective
 sharing of research insights within the academic community, but public engagement and links
 with industry are also supported. Conference attendance by staff beginning research journeys
 are particularly targeted with this funding, with emphasis placed on the importance of
 researchers finding ‘their people’, and experiencing conferences among peers in their area of
 expertise.

 As with most performance-based disciplines, many of our researchers create outputs that are
 not usually limited to a strictly academic audience but include engagement with a wider public as
 part of the dissemination strategy and, in some instances, as part of the research process itself.
 Concerts, recordings, and video documentation are all supported by the research budget and
 have led to many of the creative work documented in this submission.

 Due to the emerging nature of the Unit, research remains critically led by the interests and
 passions of the individual researcher. However, this is balanced wherever possible by strategies
 that support a sustainable culture. Towards the end of the assessment period, Ferguson who
 has developed innovative applications of telematic resources for music, has taken early

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 retirement, but has spent the last eight years training academic and technical colleagues to
 ensure that these applications can continue, and that international contacts and partnerships
 have been firmly established with the institution.

 Supporting and Recognising Impactful Research
 Staff research achievements are recognised and celebrated in a number of ways. Publications
 and performances are shared and discussed both informally and more formally at staff meetings.
 Staff are also encouraged to share ideas and seek feedback, which has led to collaborative
 projects with colleagues active in other disciplines such as those mentioned above, and with
 staff not currently significantly responsible for research, such as the involvement of Dempster in
 the ‘Making Connections’ project with Burton and Ferguson.

 Staff are encouraged to share their achievements with the wider University body through School
 Research Newsletters, by reporting outputs and events to the Communications team through the
 Research Management System, and by participation in School Research events such as the
 annual conference. These conversations have frequently led to suggestions not just for future
 work, but also for opportunities to exploit future potential for impact and public engagement. The
 strong connections between academics and industry throughout the School makes for a
 powerful resource for the sharing of research and the engagement of external partners.

 In order to capitalise on impact activities, staff are resourced to engage with industry and
 community contacts with both travel funding and time allocation. Historically this enabled a
 strong link with Avid, which has led to CPD delivery on our campus as well as development
 opportunities for staff members. In recent years similar resourcing has resulted in a developing
 partnership with Abbey Road Studios, London, and a commission for a staff member (Burton) to
 write for the Fondation Le Corbusier which will be completed in 2022.

 Research leave is currently administered at a School level. Until recently, this was dependent
 upon individual centre’s budgets, but from academic year 2020/21 onwards the School will
 consider applications for research leave (more than 0.25 FTE University funded time) in the
 context of the overall staffing projection for the year. Research leave is intended to support
 significant projects or development for an individual staff member, and a proposal for how the
 time will support this will be developed by a researcher in consultation with their line manager.

 Supporting Research Students
 Postgraduate research student recruitment is an important goal for the unit and a strong driver in
 the school plan for research. The last two years have seen a significant growth of research
 student numbers on PhD, MPhil, and MRes programmes. UoA 33 currently has seven research
 students (two MRes, one MPhil, and four PhD), and four have completed study in the period. Six
 out of seven submitted staff are engaged in supervision. Compared to 2014 when only one staff
 member was an active supervisor, this demonstrates a significant growth.

 The new MA Music programme will function as a stepping-stone for graduates at the beginning
 of their research journey, with a part-time PGCert route designed to prepare experienced
 creative practitioners to enter into a research degree after years in industry or practice. Targeted
 adverts for research students through findaphd.com have also driven recruitment, with three
 research students being enrolled in October 2020 as a result.

 All staff are encouraged to include provision for PhD funding in significant funding bids wherever
 possible, and we work with colleagues across the School to prepare collaborative proposals for
 funding bodies to support PGR provision.

 A shared workspace for the school’s research students and a collegiate approach adopted
 between staff and students makes AMRC an increasingly attractive environment in which to
 study. An annual research student conference is organised by a steering committee made up of
 PGR students and is chaired by the school programme leader for research degrees. PGR


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students are also involved in the annual school research conference, in both steering committee
 and dedicated sessions. This ensures that students are seen as members of the school
 research committee, and empowers them to develop their own structures and networks.

 Flexible working arrangements, including remote supervision, are supported by the supervisory
 team, and research students in the last seven years have been based in Malta and Athens with
 regular visits to the UK for specific workshops and training. Particular care is taken to support
 students with caring responsibilities and commitments, and the bespoke supervisory agreements
 made between supervisory team and student help to allow for the individual’s requirements to be
 taken into consideration. Students with disabilities are supported by centralised resources, and
 in UoA 33 members of staff with particular experience of working with students with autism and
 hearing loss provide specialised support. An emphasis is always placed on encouraging the
 student to determine and share their requirements, rather than these being imposed.

 Each student is assigned an Independent Panel Chair (IPC), normally from the school, who acts
 as a non-supervisory contact throughout the course of study, and who usually acts as the exam
 panel chair. The IPC also oversees the student’s training and development programme, and
 their supports the student in engaging with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework
 (RDF) and university and school level training. Good practice in this biannual monitoring process
 and regarding the role of the IPC is shared across the school.

 At present, the Unit does not participate in the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership for Scotland,
 although the School does benefit from partnership with the Scottish Graduate School of Arts &
 Humanities (SGSAH). This means the Unit can draw on workshops, the summer school,
 Discipline+ Catalyst events, Knowledge Exchange Hubs, and internships. The partnership with
 SGSAH also allows us to participate in quality benchmarking and supervisory workshops, as
 well as learning from good practice from developments in equality, diversity, and inclusivity.

 University mechanisms support monitoring processes for research students, and each student is
 assigned an Independent Panel Chair (IPC) normally from the School, who acts as a non-
 supervisory contact throughout the course of study, and who usually acts as the exam panel
 chair. The IPC also oversees the student’s training and development programme and their
 understanding of how the student’s needs interface with the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework (RDF), and with both University and School level training is a vital part of their
 relationship. Good practice in this biannual monitoring process and regarding the role of the IPC
 is shared across the School.

 Career planning for research students is normally led by the director of studies, but this is
 supported by input from other academics in the Unit, and by the IPC. Whenever possible, our
 research students are supported in gaining teaching experience through postgraduate student
 experience contracts. All research students who take on teaching must undertake the
 University’s ‘Teaching at University for PGR Students’ course, and their teaching hours are
 limited to a maximum of six hours of teaching, preparation, and marking per week to balance
 these commitments with their ongoing programme.

 Looking beyond traditional academic careers is probably more relevant than ever, so preparing
 research students to be flexible is crucial. The Student Futures team at the University are a
 valuable resource for the supervisory teams and supervisory teams signpost students to use
 their resources throughout the process of career development, as well as ensuring that they are
 aware of the training resources they have access to through our partnership in SGSAH.

 Equality and Diversity
 In the Category A pool of staff 17% identify as female and 83% as male. 92% identify as white,
 and 8% as unknown ethnicity. 25% identify as having a disability, 58% identify as having no
 disability, 17% are unknown.



                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Of submitted staff, 29% are identify as female, and 71% as male. 100% identify as white. 43%
 identify as having a disability, 43% identify as having no disability, and 14% are unknown. 100%
 of our staff members who are female, have registered a disability, and who are early career
 researchers are submitted.

 No staff have been awarded internally funded research leave during the assessment period due
 to budgetary restrictions, however Hook was funded to undertake a substantial project by the
 University of the West of Scotland, which has resulted in him conducting writing workshops in
 prisons and acting as a consultant to the Vox Liminis project team.

 Staff wellbeing is particularly important and colleagues are encouraged and empowered to work
 with our occupational health partners in order to discuss reasonable adjustments that will
 facilitate research activities. Recently, AMRC assigned funding to support a colleague to video a
 conference presentation where a pre-existing condition would have otherwise made participation
 in the conference impossible. Individual difference is celebrated and researchers frequently
 discuss the interaction between disability and their creative practice (for example this includes
 hearing loss and diabetes), with autoethnographic methods forming a significant part of at least
 one researcher’s work (Hook).

 Most importantly, support for the submission of funding applications, use of internal funds, staff
 development plans, training, and conference attendance are all regarded as individual to each
 member of staff, with particular attention paid to protected characteristics. Line managers are
 supported to understand and mitigate against constraining factors that might prevent
 researchers from accessing the appropriate level of research, and this is monitored by the
 Centre Director (Hails). The School’s Inclusion Monitoring Group is charged with reporting to the
 School Leadership Team on a range of equality and diversity issues including workloads, school
 promotion processes, and sabbaticals. Equality impact assessments are commissioned and
 scrutinised by this group, and reports from this group are also received by the University’s
 Research, Innovation, and Enterprise office.

 Phased returns for staff members after periods of leave are carefully considered in plans for
 research. In one instance, a colleague returning from a short period of sick leave was supported
 in reducing their research commitments in order to focus on teaching because they felt this was
 the most appropriate use of their time. In another instance, the phased return of another
 colleague from parental leave incorporated clear plans for a return to work on publishing
 research, which was tied into mentoring support. Although staff are supported and encouraged
 to carry out research, we are committed to supporting our colleagues to follow the career paths
 that are most appropriate for their skill set and desired outcomes, which do not always include
 research.

 Staff are encouraged to explore different flexible and remote working patterns to best support
 their research in both ad hoc and permanent arrangements. This is usually handled through line
 management relationships, but is strongly encouraged by the Research Centre Director (Hails)
 and within the research culture as a whole. The necessity for alternative work spaces is
 particularly valued by colleagues engaging in creative work, but there is also an important link to
 staff with caring responsibilities and disabilities. As an example, the Unit leader has an
 agreement to work from home for three mornings a week as a reasonable adjustment. The
 establishment of office hours for student enquiries and the inclusion of research time into the
 timetabling process has enabled staff to ring-fence their time and to feel supported in their efforts
 in what is often a lonely aspect of academic life.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 In the period the unit has brought in £85,550. Annual average income is £12,221. Average
 annual income by funder is 77% from BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British
 Academy and The Royal Society of Edinburgh, and 23% from EU sources.

 Funding has largely been awarded for activities involving the LoLa project (Burton, Ferguson,
 Hook, Moir), in collaboration with SoC, with John Moores University Liverpool, and with Nova
 Southeastern University Florida. Collaborative work on applications across disciplines (e.g. the
 AHRC funded project ‘ENSEMBLE Performing Together Apart: Enhancing Immersive Multi-
 Location Co-Performance in Real Time’, which was written in collaboration with SoC) and across
 HEIs (e.g. the JANET-funded project ‘Making Connections Through the Fifth Wall: A New
 Creative Place for Performing Arts and Pedagogy in Higher Education’ in collaboration with
 Dance departments at Liverpool John Moores University and Nova Southeastern University, Fort
 Lauderdale, Florida). Centre and School strategy have facilitated strong central support from the
 University’s Research, Innovation, and Enterprise office, which has enabled smooth
 collaborations but has also empowered academics to submit stronger funding applications.

 All music staff are empowered to include at least one funding application in their MyContribution
 objectives for each year. Applications by individuals as practitioners have resulted in Creative
 Scotland funding for collaborative performances (with the Lung Ha’s Theatre Company)
 (Dempster), a CD recording (All of these people are me) and a Scottish Book Trust funded tour
 (The Odd Story) (Hook). Funding of composition, performance, and recordings is seen as vital
 to the professional development of our researchers and we have encouraged a strong practice
 of peer-to-peer support for applications.

 In the period, researchers in the Unit have been supported in seeking funding via collaboration
 with industry and charity partners. For example, AMRC has a strong collaborative relationship
 with St. Giles’ Cathedral Edinburgh. Fundraising by the Friends of the Music of St Giles’
 Cathedral has raised £15,100 for Harris to commission work and recordings, and an additional
 £1,500 was raised by the Friends and the Edinburgh Society of Organists for a new work for solo
 organ. This has led to excellent musical outputs, which have in turn greatly benefitted the
 Church of Scotland, as outlined in one of the Unit’s impact case studies.

 Internal distribution of REG funding is targeted to support conference attendance, particularly for
 ECRs, the purchase of equipment (to support projects such as research using LoLa and the Old
 Town/New Music concert series), and towards engaging professional musicians as consultants
 and collaborators in compositional work (including the ensemble apartment house, the trumpeter
 Stephen Altoft, and the cellist Justyna Jablonska). Strategic allotments of funding have included
 providing support for three members of the unit (Moir, Stefanie, Stillie) to attend the Association
 for Popular Music Education (APME) conference in New York City in June 2019 which resulted
 in them presenting eight different sessions, including the launch of the Bloomsbury Handbook of
 Popular Music Education, edited by Moir and including submissions by a number of the Unit
 team (Hails, Moir, Stefanie, Stillie).

 An annual bequest (£40,000 per year) by Dr Ian Tomlin provided significant additional support
 for music activities, until his death in 2016, which included specific research projects where this
 was appropriate such as supporting an annual residency by the Edinburgh Quartet (which
 supported the development of research students), and the purchase of instruments used in the
 performance of staff work (Burton, Hails). From October 2020, an annual scholarship in his
 name was awarded for the first time covering fees for PhD students at the University, funded by
 a significant bequest made in his will.

 Where members of the team have required additional funding for support due to disability, this
 has been facilitated to ensure that they have equal access to the opportunity to carry out

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. This is carried out primarily through confidential discussions with the Research Centre
 Director (Hails) and the School Head of Research (Dryden, UoA 27).

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Music at ENU is supported by a dedicated technical team comprising a 1FTE senior technician
 and a 0.5FTE technician. Under the guidance of Ferguson (until June 2020) and Hook (2020
 onwards), and leadership at School level, this team ensures that the studio facilities are
 functioning efficiently and according to industry benchmarks, and that the technological needs of
 the team are met. This ensures that off-site performances such as installations by Hails and
 Moir, and concerts in the Old Town/New Music series (Hails, Moir, Burton) are thoroughly
 supported. Close collaboration between this team and the University’s IT department has
 enabled the smooth running of the tests, demonstrations, and concerts that have formed the
 elements presented in the LoLa impact case study.

 We maintain a professional-level recording studio which has played a fundamental role in the
 research and development process underpinning compositional work (Burton, Hails, Hook) and
 fulfilled the role of the technical hub of our low latency audio-visual collaborations (Hook, Stillie,
 Moir, Ferguson). Strategic funding to maintain and enhance these facilities has remained a
 School priority throughout the 2014-2020 period in order to support the integrated teaching-
 research-CPD approach. We are Scotland’s largest AVID Learning Partner with instructors
 qualified to deliver professional training. In addition to commercial training we provide support for
 the recording industry in return for in-kind student placements and masterclasses.

 In the seven years since we began our research into the use of high-speed academic and
 research networks, we have set up a specialist research infrastructure that provides high
 performance unrestricted access to the worldwide research and education networks. During this
 time, we have become a testbed for manufacturers of real-time audio and video technologies for
 music and dance performance. As an established research group in this field we have been able
 to use this infrastructure to allow twelve UK and international universities and conservatoires to
 do their initial tests in this field, and continue to support the continued spread of telematic
 rehearsal, pedagogy, and performance (see impact case study).

 We are working with regional internet infrastructure providers to stimulate the use of ‘Gigabit
 City’ fibre-optic for real-time performance. This is for educational and commercial applications
 with ENU’s network research infrastructure acting as a bridge between the city-wide and global
 networks.

 Through the AHRC-funded collaboration with SoC, we are able to add a strong User Experience
 (UX) component to our research environment. As an outcome of this, we have the ability to act
 as an “always on” remote site for conferences taking place elsewhere in the world. For example,
 delegates were able to present and perform in the 2019 NowNet Arts New York conference from
 our real-time remote conference site in ENU.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Members of the Unit are encouraged to join relevant academic and professional networks, and
 have forged particularly close links with the Association for Popular Music Education (APME),
 the Audio Engineering Society (AES), and the Royal Musicological Association’s Music and/as
 Process Study Group. We hosted, delivered, and live-streamed the 2015 AES Scotland
 Christmas Lecture, and the 2018 annual conference of the Music and/as Process study was
 hosted by the Centre at our Merchiston campus. The 2020 annual APME conference was
 postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic but will be hosted by the Centre as soon as
 restrictions allow.

 As part of our collaborative agreement with St Giles’ Cathedral and the Church of Scotland, one
 of our researchers (Harris) is contracted to fill the role of Master of the Music at the High Kirk on
 a 0.5FTE basis and, as part of this role, engages in practice that fulfils the research needs of his

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University and Church of Scotland roles. Through this unique collaboration, Harris has
 commissioned works for solo organ and choir in order to enrich the liturgical repertoire of the
 Church of Scotland, and has championed music by Scottish composers to ensure that this
 repertoire is not simply an ephemeral tradition. His extensive touring activities with the choir of
 the High Kirk and as a solo organist ensure that this influence is extended to an international
 audience. This has led to a number of beneficial impacts to both the church and the public, as
 outlined in his submitted impact case study.

 As part of our connection to the High Kirk, a series of performances entitled Old Town New
 Music brings music by the team to the historic environment as part of our commitment to public
 exposure of our work. This has also included sound-art contributions to the Burns and Beyond
 festival’s activities at the High Kirk in 2019 and 2020 (clair de lune and MANDALA respectively)
 that have been mutually beneficial for all parties. The relationship with the Church of Scotland
 will be maintained through the involvement of Centre composers (Dempster, Hails, Burton,
 Hook, Moir) in the composition of works for choir and for organ, and the ongoing involvement
 with the Culture and Heritage team in submitting joint funding bids to support ongoing creative
 activities.

 Collaborative practice is strongly supported within and without the Unit. Given that many of our
 researchers have not been recruited from traditional academic routes, collaboration has enabled
 a powerful sharing of practice, particularly methodological, and unlocked the potential of
 colleagues. This experience has prepared staff to collaborate externally and has led to exciting
 projects with a number of partners including Liverpool John Moores University and Nova
 Southeastern University, Bergen Community College, Aberdeen University, Durham Brass
 Festival, the Burns and Beyond Festival, Edinburgh Jazz & Blues Festival, and the Royal
 Conservatoire of Scotland.

 In 2017 and 2018, the Centre supported the Alba New Music Festival which included
 performances of rarely heard music by internationally renowned performers of contemporary
 repertoire. This relationship also enabled Hails and Ferguson to present multi-speaker music in
 unlikely places in collaboration with the SYN festivals in 2016 and 2017.

 Burton established a relationship with the Cockburn Association in 2018 to place new music by
 Centre composers Burton, Dempster, and Hails in the programme of the Doors Open Days run
 in Edinburgh to celebrate the historic architectural heritage of the city. This has played a strong
 part in engaging audiences with Burton’s site-specific compositions and enhanced the Centre’s
 visibility within the city. When restrictions are eased, this programme will recommence.

 Hails is on the steering committee of the Music and/as Process study group of the RMA, and a
 grant reviewer for the Carnegie Trust. He is a reviewer for the Journal of Arts and Communities.
 He has chaired sessions at the International Conference on Music Since 1900, the Music and/as
 Process annual conferences, and at the two Continental Drift conferences. He was keynote
 speaker at the 2018 Wintersound Festival at Christ Church Canterbury.

 Hook’s career as hip-hop artist and poet Solareye as both soloist and as the frontman of the
 group Stanley Odd engages a wide range of audiences including as a regular speaker at the
 Edinburgh International Book Festival, running writing workshops for the Scottish Book Trust in
 schools, as well as releasing music for international audiences and performing at major Scottish
 festivals. In interviews, he introduces the themes of his research into identity and hip-hop culture
 to a wider audience.

 Moir is an editorial board member of the Journal of Popular Music Education, and an elected
 member of the Board of Directors for the Association for Popular Music Education. He is a
 reviewer for the Journal of the Art of Record Production, the Journal of Popular Music Education,
 the Journal of Music, Technology & Education, and Arts and Humanities in Higher Education. He
 has chaired sessions at the annual Art of Record Production, APME and Continental Drift


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conferences. He has been an invited key-note speaker at the University of West of London’s
 research lecture series, and at Ithaca College, NY.

 In 2015, joint research by Ferguson and Gill Davies (MRes student), was shortlisted in the
 Times Higher Education Awards in the Outstanding Digital Innovation in Teaching or Research
 category.




                                                                                        Page 13
