Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Glasgow Caledonian University

 Unit of Assessment:
 28 - History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context

 The inter-REF period has seen a consolidation of History’s research strategy at GCU, and the
 subject group has built upon the strengths identified in REF2014. These areas are the histories
 of Health and Healthcare, Scottish History, War and Society, Sports History, and Gender
 History. The five historians at GCU offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate research-
 led teaching modules, based (at levels 3 and 4 in particular) on the group’s research themes.
 These are also closely aligned with the University’s commitment to increase the Common Good,
 and with five of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Goals. Goals 3 (Health and Well-Being); 4 (Quality
 Education); 5 (Gender Equality); 10 (Reduced Inequalities), and 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong
 Institutions) are addressed through the group’s focus on research themes with contemporary
 relevance, and high levels of engagement with policy makers as well as NGOs. The group
 undertakes research that addresses the historic origins of societal inequalities and provides
 empirical evidence for potential approaches to remedying such inequalities. History is part of the
 Department of Social Sciences at GCU and offers a History pathway in the B.A. Social Sciences
 degree programme. Our historians work closely with colleagues in Sociology, Politics and
 Criminology to provide students with research-led interdisciplinary teaching that engages with
 real-world problems. An understanding of the historic roots of gender, racial, and economic
 inequalities is a core element throughout the degree, enhancing student understanding of the
 contemporary world.

 The History group at GCU are formally associated with the key research centres in the
 University, especially the Wise Centre for Economic Justice, the Yunus Centre for Social
 Business and Health, and, externally, with the Centre for the Social History of Health and
 Healthcare (CSHHH) at the University of Strathclyde. This is a joint research initiative with health
 humanities colleagues at Strathclyde and GCU and is a key component of our research strategy.
 The three research centres allow the relatively small History group to be part of a much larger
 critical mass of researchers at GCU, and Glasgow more broadly, encouraging interdisciplinary
 projects and offering considerable research support. All the History group are associate
 members of the centres and are formally employed by the Department of Social Science with
 responsibilities for teaching and research. Murray is an exception and is a full-time member of
 the Yunus Centre with exclusive responsibility for research.

 The Wise Centre is focused on research from a gendered perspective, with particular strengths
 in gender budgeting, and gender inequalities in migration and human rights. The Centre was
 formally approved in 2017 and now has 10 staff across three departments, 15 affiliated doctoral
 students, and two post-docs. It has secured over £2 million in research funding since its
 formation from funders that include EU Horizon 2020, AHRC, ESRC, and Scottish Government.
 History staff are active members of the Centre, with Skillen and Walsh part of the Wise-based
 EU VOLPOWER project. Skillen is a joint principal investigator of the GCU element of this
 Horizon 2020 project, exploring sports volunteering amongst refugee communities. This project
 has European partners in the Netherlands, Italy, Austria, Hungry, Slovenia and Croatia, and
 Skillen has led several of the training elements for young volunteers in Slovenia as well as
 continental Europe. She also co-supervises one of the project’s doctoral students, and the
 project supports dedicated research time for her development of further externally funded
 projects. Walsh sits on the Advisory Committee for VOLPOWER, offering guidance on the ethics
 elements of the project’s work packages. Walsh’s research for the Government of Ireland - a
 commissioned report on the practice of symphysiotomy in twentieth century Ireland - was
 completed with the support of Wise Centre facilities.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Yunus Centre for Social Business and Health conducts world-leading research to
 conceptualise and evidence ways that the lives of individuals and communities can be improved
 through a better understanding of various community-based and health-focused initiatives. This
 interdisciplinary Centre, with associate staff members from each of GCU’s three Schools, was
 established in 2010 and has grown dramatically since REF 2014. It has secured over £5 million
 during this REF period including several large research grants, one of which led to the
 appointment of Murray as a full-time member of staff in the Centre. Research focuses on how
 civil society activity might impact on ‘upstream’ social determinants of health, and the potential
 for social enterprise to act as a public health intervention. Murray leads two key research strands
 in the Yunus Centre, focusing on the historic roots of social inequalities at local and national
 levels, and the histories of social enterprise in Scotland and beyond. Murray is also a principal
 driver of a project to collect and preserve an archive on social enterprise, working in
 collaboration with third sector bodies. Greenlees was part of the Centre’s CommonHealth: Social
 Enterprise as a Public Health Intervention, 2014-18 project. Funded by the Medical Research
 Council and ESRC, it was a substantial grant (£500,000) that saw Greenlees lead a team in
 collaboration with the Centre’s Head on the History of Social Enterprise and Public Health in
 Scotland, with Murray. This large-scale, multi-disciplinary project funded teaching buy-out for
 Greenlees to both conduct research in the history of social enterprise and to mentor an ECR in
 the Centre. She has developed this research focus into a further collaboration with the Maternity
 Care Coalition (MCC) in Philadelphia, and is working with a colleague at Drexel University,
 Philadelphia, on a prenatal and poverty project. She is currently collaborating with the NHS
 Scotland on an archival project focusing on public health records, which is part of a large-scale
 project on the provision of high quality and locally appropriate midwifery care in Scotland.

 The Centre for the Social History of Health and Healthcare is a joint initiative between GCU and
 the University of Strathclyde. Founded in 2005, the Centre received a substantial grant from the
 Wellcome Trust to fund research activities in a wide range of Health History projects. It has
 enjoyed significant success in securing an extension to the original grant which funded activities
 including conferences, seminar series, annual lectures, as well as staff research travel and
 conference attendance costs. The CSHHH offers an MSc in Health History, and all of the History
 staff at GCU (apart from Murray, who is employed on a 100% research contract) contribute a
 range of modules on psychiatric, obstetric, and public health histories. The Centre was awarded
 a grant (‘Health Histories Futures: The MSc in Health History at CSHHH Glasgow, £76,000) to
 fund master’s students in 2019. The Wellcome Trust invited the CSHHH to renew this grant in
 2021: this was a direct invitation to the Centre, and not part of an open-call funding round. In the
 same year, the Centre was awarded £938,000 for the ‘Building Shared Futures: Co-developing
 Medical Humanities in China and the UK (MHCUK)’ project, which funds staff and student
 exchanges between the CSHHH and the University of Shanghai. Walsh and Greenlees were the
 Centre’s representatives in 2015 and 2019 respectively, and Skillen’s planned 2020 visit had to
 be postponed due to Covid travel restrictions. The Centre has offered support to individual GCU
 staff members for career development, through funding for archival visits, research travel, and
 conference attendance. It is also central to GCU’s history group postgraduate strategy. GCU
 graduates have taken the MSc at CSHHH as the first step towards doctoral study in health
 history, with one student awarded a GCU doctoral studentship following her MSc to study
 Scottish War Hospitals, and another securing Wellcome Trust funding for her PhD at GCU on
 the basis of her MSc work on epilepsy colonies in England. Two of our 2019-20 graduates are
 currently taking the MSc, and both are applicants to the Carnegie Trust and Wellcome Trust for
 doctoral funding. The Centre offers support and guidance on external funding applications, to
 develop the next generation of History academics. GCU (and Strathclyde University) graduates
 receive a generous discount on the registration fee for the MSc.

 Through the research centres above, mentoring and support is provided to postgraduate
 students, ECRs and staff, and assistance in the development of external grant applications,
 research training, seminars and conferences is offered. While the centres allow for the
 development of specific thematic interests, the GCU historians form a self-motivated and
 enthusiastic research team with ambitious development plans.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Strategy

 Health History, Gender History, and Military History are the three main research foci at GCU,
 with Sports History an integral element of the first two strands. Health history remains a major
 institutional research priority and is a core component in GCU’s long-term commitment as a
 health research institution. Health history is supported institutionally through strategic staff
 appointments (the transfer of Skillen to the Department of Social Sciences to replace history
 staff retirements, and the inclusion of Murray in the research group), sabbatical leave, seminar
 funding, PhD studentships, and support for research trips and conference attendance. Our core
 goal is to undertake world-leading historical research that not merely interrogates the past but
 informs the present. GCU is the University for the Common Good, and our research seeks to
 impact positively on the population that surrounds us, as well as contributing to a global
 academic community. History research at GCU sits within a broader academic community that is
 focused on bridging town and gown, making a demonstrable impact on health and wellbeing at a
 local as well as an international academic level. History staff work within a community of
 scholars in the Department of Social Science, and the University as a whole, whose animating
 purpose is societal improvement: the group’s new research strand in health and heritage offers
 significant potential for extra-academic impacts.

 2. People

 GCU is a post-92 University, and many academic staff teach rather than research for the most
 part. All staff are on the same academic contract, with support offered through mentoring,
 training and a Workload Allocation Model to encourage the development of research careers. All
 History staff are Sigres - staff with significant responsibility for research - and UoA 28 is returning
 100% of staff in REF2021, an improvement from 2014’s 88% return of total History staff. This
 compares with 35% in the University as a whole, confirming the strong research culture within
 the group. The gender ratio in the group in 2021 is 4:1 female to male (80%) which is consistent
 with 2014’s 81% female return, and the group includes an ECR, two Readers, one Senior
 Lecturer, and a Professor.

 Although History has suffered some staff losses in recent years as a result of early retirement
 and appointments to other universities, the group remains cohesive and strong in research and
 research-led teaching. The History pathway of the B.A. Social Sciences degree is one of the
 most popular of all the disciplinary pathways, and several of our History graduates go on to train
 as History teachers or lecturers. The inclusion of Murray from the Yunus Centre and Skillen from
 the Tourism Group has consolidated History’s research agenda, strengthening the group’s
 expertise in Health Histories and Scottish History, and developing the new area of interest in
 Dark Heritage. The return for the History group at GCU is 100% and the outputs since the last
 REF period include two monographs, nine peer-reviewed journal articles, and nine peer-
 reviewed academic book chapters, a major peer-reviewed government report, as well as non-
 peer-reviewed publications in journals and magazines. The University’s commitment to the
 History group is seen in the promotion of the group’s staff. Skillen was promoted to Senior
 Lecturer in 2018; Greenlees to Reader in 2017, and Murray made a permanent staff member in
 2019.

 There are a number of development opportunities for research staff in History. GSBS operates a
 sabbatical leave scheme open to all full-time permanent academics with more than three years’
 service. Staff are encouraged to apply for external awards that fund teaching buy-out to support
 specific research projects, with Greenlees and Skillen utilising funds from CommonHealth and
 VOLPOWER respectively to support their research. Staff are also encouraged to front and back-
 load teaching where appropriate, allowing individual historians to devote a large proportion of
 time to research planning, and article completion, during the teaching terms. Shepherd and
 Walsh respectively front and back loaded teaching in the academic year 2019-20, facilitating the
 preparation of a new research monograph in Shepherd’s case, and the exploration of a large
 international funding bid by Walsh. The group work closely together to plan the teaching delivery
 of History modules in order to support individual research commitments and enjoy particular

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 flexibility in allocating responsibilities on the team-taught modules at levels 1 and 2. This has
 supported the completion of specific research outputs. Research projects are facilitated in the
 planning stages by the Department of Social Science as well as the School as a whole. Funds
 are available via the Associate Dean (Research) to support conference travel and research
 presentations, and each staff member may also apply to the Department, and the School, for
 research-related support.

 The research achievements of staff are monitored and supported by our Performance and
 Development Annual Review (PDAR) programme, which seeks to identify and support key
 individual research objectives, and to identify support and research training needs.


 Research Students

 The training needs of PGR students are individually assessed, with funds allocated to support
 their learning and development needs as required and provision organised around the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. The University also offers training for PGR students
 through the Graduate School and as part of our MRes programme (which is ESRC accredited
 for 1+3 training). The Graduate School offers an extensive range of workshops, training
 opportunities and events which are aimed and structured around the developmental needs of
 doctoral researchers and there are significant opportunities for seminar and conference
 attendance as well as academic citizenship participation (see institutional environment statement
 for a description of the PhD journey). The Graduate School also leads online writing retreats for
 PGR students, which have proven particularly popular during lockdown. Relatedly, the University
 has ensured that workspace is available to PGR students living in Glasgow during lockdown. All
 PhD students have been given an automatic extension due to the effects of COVID. GCU has
 allocated funds (in addition to ESRC funding for SGSSS funded students) to provide PGR
 students with financial support to extend their studies where COVID has had a detrimental
 effect.

 Our historians have maintained the profile of PhD recruitment and completion from the last REF
 cycle, proportionate to staff numbers. We have seen four successful completions, ‘The
 Rehabilitation of Disabled Ex-Servicemen in Interwar Scotland’, ‘Epileptic Colonies in England’,
 ’Scottish War Hospitals in WWI’, and ‘The Border Towers of Scotland’. Current doctorates
 ‘Stress, Starvation, and Epigenetic Change: the historic origins of chronic ill-health amongst the
 Irish Diaspora’, ‘The wartime functioning and role of Glasgow's cityscape, 1939-1945’), ‘Roots,
 Revivals and Reinventions: a Regional History of Community Business in Britain, c. 1979-2010’,
 ‘The Development of NHS Health Improvement Services and their relationship to Health
 Inequalities in Urban Scotland, 1948-1998’, and ‘Disability and Degeneracy 1850-1914: Able
 ideology as moral critique’. A collaborative three-year PhD studentship was obtained with the
 British Golf Museum and the Sports Heritage Network to the value of £71,000 in 2019. The
 studentship examines the development of women’s golf at a grassroots and club level from the
 mid-twentieth century onwards in Scotland, and another student has been appointed as the
 doctoral candidate on the project. In addition, the five historians are second and third
 supervisors on doctoral teams where the student’s principal methodological focus is not history.
 These include topics in Politics, Public Health, and Social Enterprise. In this way, the group has
 built important and supportive research networks for both staff and students and facilitated
 access to additional research resources for students through affiliation with research centres and
 research-active staff in other departments.

 All of our doctoral students complete a formal research skills programme which includes
 workshops on research skills and methods. Through the School, and in particular through the
 three research centres with which we are most closely aligned, the students are part of a
 postgraduate research community in which they can mix across disciplinary boundaries, leading
 to an enriched research experience. All students have dedicated office space, a laptop, and
 equipment necessary for their research, as well as access to financial support for research trips
 and conference attendance. The Graduate School’s workshop training programme is aligned

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, providing guidance to students in
 developing their research careers. Doctoral students are normally supervised by a team of three
 staff and interdisciplinary supervision across schools and centres is encouraged. Staff new to
 supervision are expected to attend a series of internal training workshops run by the Graduate
 School, whilst more experienced doctoral supervisors are offered professional development in
 the form of a series of workshops - ‘Developments in Doctoral Supervision’. In addition,
 Greenlees organised two PG and ECR workshops in 2014 and 2015 for health history students;
 the ‘Health History in Action’ postgraduate career development workshop at conference, under
 the auspices of the Society for the Social History of Medicine, and the ‘Early Career Workshop
 for Health Historians’ at the University of Oxford.

 PGR students are encouraged to publish as sole or first author during their PhD to prepare them
 for academic life and position them favourably in the labour market. They are supported in this
 through writing groups and mentoring schemes, with students further advanced in their doctoral
 studies offering structured advice to new students. Students are part of a broader
 interdisciplinary research community through participation in seminars and research symposia
 offered by the three research centres to which we are affiliated, and here they give presentations
 on their research to Unit staff and other PhD students, and receive constructive and supportive
 feedback.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 History research income for the REF2021 cycle amounted to £391,720. This bears favourable
 comparison with 2014 (£447,111, which included a substantial grant from the Wellcome trust to
 the CSHHH), despite the group’s reduced numbers. The number of funding bodies supporting
 History research at GCU is greater than in the last cycle, with successful applications made to
 the Heritage Lottery Fund, the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the British Golf Museum
 and Sports Heritage Network, and the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Historians also received
 grants from the Wellcome Trust, including projects funded under the Trust’s Seed Award, and
 Small Grants schemes.

 The success of GCU’s strategy of offering seed funding for exploratory research may be seen in
 the History group. Greenlees received a GCU Research Excellence Grant of £1400 in 2018 to
 undertake preliminary archival research, and build contacts in the health sector, for a larger
 project on ‘Poverty, Maternity, and Environment’. Her early work led to a commission from the
 Irish Government to contribute a survey essay on ‘Scottish Mother and Baby Homes’ as part of
 the context section of the Mother and Baby Homes Commission, in 2015 (£5170). This work
 helped to place the operation of the Irish Homes within a broader international context, and the
 research led to further work in poverty impacts on maternity in Scotland. Greenlees was
 subsequently the recipient of a Wellcome Trust Seed Award (2016) amounting to £28,147, for a
 project entitled ‘Failing Babies: Poverty, Maternity and Healthcare in the Twentieth Century’.
 From this research, she was awarded a Wellcome Trust Small Grant to build on the work in
 ‘Failing Babies’. Skillen was awarded a £1,000 grant from GCU’s REG fund, to undertake a
 scoping project on women’s golf in Scotland. This laid the foundation for her subsequent,
 successful, application to the AHRC for a £71,000 doctoral studentship on Scottish women’s
 golf.

 GCU’s Research Innovation Office (RIO) was formed after REF2014 in order to consolidate
 research support in a single unit, to more effectively serve research activity across the
 University. Operating from a dedicated space at the heart of the Glasgow campus, RIO provides
 technical support for research activity, and advice on grant applications from costing to
 submission. RIO has amassed considerable expertise and resources in relation to GCU’s
 research activities which are available to staff and PGRs preparing external research bids. With
 support from RIO, our Library Information Service manages the PURE research information
 system, the University’s research portal. Research activity is managed through the system,
 monitoring individual as well as University-wide research activity by capturing publications,
 impact, funding applications, awards and projects. RIO is the key provider of information on

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research funding opportunities, sending a fortnightly email alert to all staff regarding new funding
 calls, including Knowledge Transfer Partnership opportunities, defined projects for NGOs and
 Third-Sector organisations, as well as UKRI, EU, and other national and international funding
 schemes.

 RIO has a proactive strategy to develop a vigorous research culture at GCU, shaped by the
 University’s organisational principles of Common Good, and a commitment to addressing the
 Global Challenges through Sustainable Development. Thus, research proposals seeking
 University or external funding support must align with the United Nations Sustainable
 Development Goals, and demonstrate not merely a general good intention, but address societal
 problems and inequalities. Projects must also show consideration of potential research impact,
 which has ensured that individual researchers as well as subject and centre proposals make a
 demonstrable difference to broader society as well as the academic community. This approach
 has had a significant and beneficial impact on projects and outputs in the History group (see
 section 4 below for full details), leading to several important public engagement opportunities as
 well as academic outputs. The History group have developed a strong relationship with the
 Archives Centre at GCU, which holds a wide range of records relating to Scottish politics,
 economy, and cultural life, with particular strengths in collections relating to Glasgow city and its
 environs. In addition to using the resources for individual staff research projects, the group have
 built in the Archives Centre at every level of the History pathway of the Social Sciences degree,
 requiring undergraduate students to engage with primary sources from year one of their
 University careers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 History has built upon major international links since the last REF period to strengthen research
 quality and impact. Staff at GCU are members of University validated Research Centres - the
 Wise Centre for Economic Justice, The Centre for the Social History of Health and Healthcare,
 and the Yunus Centre, in particular - and take an active role in supporting the work of SPIRU
 (Scottish Poverty Information Research Unit), and the Gender Research Group, both of which
 are located within the Department of Social Science. The CSHHH remains a core inter-
 University Research Centre that facilitates and develops History research at GCU, offering
 research support through grants, research seminars, postgraduate supervision, international
 academic exchanges, and visiting Professorship lectures and exchanges. It also facilitates
 access to an international network of support, information, and resources for the specific
 discipline of Health History, which is the research thread that links each of the five historians,
 and their students, at GCU.

 The group have made disciplinary contributions with substantive extra-academic impact since
 the REF 2014. Walsh submitted the final research report commissioned by the Irish government
 on the practice of symphysiotomy in twentieth century Ireland. The Report’s key
 recommendation - a Redress Scheme - was accepted by government and led to 399 women
 receiving compensation for injury under the ‘Symphysiotomy Redress Scheme’ which disbursed
 €34 million by 2017. Greenlees was contracted by the Irish Mother and Baby Homes
 Commission of Enquiry to produce a summary of the treatment of Scottish unmarried mothers as
 one of the comparators for the Irish experience. The Commission’s report has recently been
 published (January 2021) and a decision will be made by the government this year as to how the
 mother and baby inmates of the homes will be compensated.


 Contributions to Society

 As part of her research on social enterprise in Scotland, Murray has organised a travelling
 exhibition, in collaboration with the GCU Archive Centre, which has been viewed by over 700
 people to date at over 11 stops across Scotland. The events, workshops and installations have
 been supported by the social enterprise sector and have engaged practitioners with the history
 of the movement, providing insight into the historical value of their work and encouraging

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 donations of material to the Social Enterprise Collection (Scotland), as well as participation in an
 oral history project.

 Murray has also led six Knowledge Exchange Forums across Scotland between 2014 and 2018,
 involving hundreds of participants. As part of the CommonHealth programme, she has built on
 collaborations that link research scholars with social enterprise practitioners to organise events
 focused on the role of social enterprise in public health. From this project, Murray has co-
 produced set of ten briefing papers, making the research findings both free and easily
 accessible. This has been well received by both the social enterprise sector, and the broader
 community.


 Plenary and Keynote Lectures

 Skillen has delivered one keynote, and four plenaries, during the REF period. In 2015, she
 spoke on ‘Women, Sport History and the Archives’, (the Maurice Bond Plenary Lecture), at the
 British Records Association Annual Conference, London. In April 2017 she delivered the Plenary
 address at the Leisure Studies Association Annual Conference in Bolton, on ‘“Pah! The papers
 are full of tennis snap-shots again. Mark my words, Joan, if those women put into housework the
 energy they put into tennis, there would be more sense in it.” Women, Sport and the Press in
 interwar Britain.’ In November of the same year she addressed the Golf Society of Korea’s
 annual conference in Seoul, South Korea, giving the Plenary talk on ‘The early development of
 women’s golf in Scotland 1850-1939’. In 2020, Skillen gave the Keynote address at ‘Red de
 Investigación sobre Historia de las Mujeres y el Deporte’ Conference in Barcelona, Spain,
 speaking on ‘“The gift of the gab”: the importance of oral history to British women’s sport history'.
 Walsh delivered the plenary at Science Week, at Trinity College, Dublin in 2017, on the topic of
 ‘Stress, Starvation, and Epigenetic Change’. She also delivered the keynote at the ‘Architecture
 at the Edge’ weekend in Galway, on ‘The District Asylums: relics and their re-use’ in 2019.
 Greenlees delivered the plenary lecture on ‘To develop the “habit”: Nurses and prenatal care for
 poor women in the United States and Great Britain, c. 1880-1939’ at the Canadian Association
 for the History of Nursing, Halifax, Nova Scotia in 2018.


 Talks to non-academic audiences

 The history group at GCU makes a contribution to scholarly research at a level above its modest
 size. It also regards the obligation to make that research available to a wider audience as a key
 element in our academic research strategy, and in tandem with the REF exercise’s central
 purpose to measure research activity, the History staff undertake a wide range of lectures and
 talks that offer their research findings to a wide, non-specialist audience.

 Shepherd has given talks at the following venues and used a variety of non-academic fora. His
 public lectures include; a 2019 lecture at the Italian Cultural Institute, Toronto; while he held the
 Fred Alexander Research Fellow in the Department of History at the University of Western
 Australia in 2016, he delivered an open lecture on ‘The German Army in World War Two’ at the
 University of Western Australia; a talk for the Scottish Association for the Teaching of History
 annual conference, at the High School of Glasgow (2017); a public lecture for the Kilmarnock
 and District History Group (2017), and he has been a co-presenter in lecture days for the Centre
 for Open Studies at the University of Glasgow, 2014-16. Skillen has spoken at community
 engagement events on ‘Women, War and the Westend’ at Hillhead Library and Cottier’s Theatre
 in 2018, and contributed to associated public exhibitions at Hillhead, the Glasgow Building Trust,
 and the Tenement House Museum. She also established the Scottish Women in Sport Hall of
 Fame, in collaboration with Scottish Women in Sport (2019). The group have also contributed
 articles to magazines and journals aimed at a general readership rather than their academic
 peers, ensuring a wider reach for their research. Skillen has published on aspects of her
 research in the Sunday Post; Telegraph Women’s Sport Supplement: Herald; History Scotland


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and BBC History Extra (attracting the attention of, and a retweet by, the First Minister, Nicola
 Sturgeon), and is a regular contributor of profiles for the Oxford National Biographical Dictionary.

 Walsh has published in History Ireland, co-produced a discussion paper on the future of Medical
 Humanities in Ireland, and given talks annually at the Ada English Summer School in Co.
 Galway between 2014 and 2017. Shepherd contributed to the BBC History Magazine for the 75th
 anniversary of VE Day. Greenlees has been a contributor on the ‘John Beattie Show’, ‘Good
 Morning Scotland’, and ‘Radio Scotland’, discussing American history and current events, as
 well as the histories of women’s work, and childbirth, and delivered a public lecture for Glasgow
 City Council and Strathclyde University on ‘Memories of Slave Resistance’ during Black History
 Month in 2016. Greenlees was also part of a Heritage Lottery Fund Award for a project entitled
 ‘Pits, Ponies, People and Stories’ (2014-16). Working in collaboration with South Lanarkshire
 Council, she contributed to the creation of a teaching pack for schools, and a public exhibition in
 Lanarkshire.

 Skillen is particularly active in disseminating research to a broader audience through her regular
 contributions on television and radio. In 2014, she was selected from over 3,500 applicants to
 undertake media training at the BBC Academy, and was chosen on the quality and relevance of
 her research. This opportunity has led to her involvement in a number of TV and Radio
 programmes, which have attracted a huge audience for her work. They include appearances on
 the People’s History Show on STV (average viewing figure is 248,000), as a presenter in 2018,
 and an interviewee for six appearances between 2014 and 2018. As one of the BBC’s Women
 Experts, she has featured as an interviewee on BBC Radio Scotland’s ‘John Beattie Show’,
 ‘Breakfast Drive’, ‘Call Kaye’, ‘McAulay and Co’. the ‘Sanjeev Singh Khali Show’, ‘Good Morning
 Scotland’ and ‘Victoria Derbyshire’ on BBC Radio Five Live. She has most recently (January
 2021) appeared on the BBC’s ‘Iron Women’ documentary on early women golfers, for which her
 PhD student Lauren Beatty was the academic researcher. Skillen has almost 3,500 followers on
 Twitter, which she uses to tweet about her research, and that of her History colleagues. She has
 spoken on GCU’s Common Good Podcast on the history of women and sport and was in the top
 5 most listened to episodes. Walsh contributed an episode on women and lunatic asylums for
 the Irish national broadcaster’s (RTE) TV series on ‘No Country for Women’ in 2018, and was
 twice interviewed on RTE radio’s ‘God Slot’ (2014 and ’15) on her work on Anglican women
 activists. Shepherd has given talks on radio on a variety of historical topics, being a guest on
 ‘Tinderbox - Sparking Ideas in the Community’ on Sunny Govan Community Radio (Glasgow) in
 2019, as well as presenting his own popular GCU-broadcast radio show ‘The Music of Time’. His
 monthly show ran for four series (the final series was broadcast in 2018), exploring major
 historical events and eras - WWI and WWII; the Vietnam War; opposition to Apartheid in South
 Africa, the American Civil Rights movement, and Crime and the Law through the Ages - through
 the music it produced and reflected. Most of the shows included a talk with an internationally
 recognised expert, and the complete series is currently being prepared for uploading to
 Mixcloud, where it will be widely available.

 The group have contributed to several community and extra-academic organisations and
 initiatives. Walsh works with the Ballinasloe Area Community Development Ltd to preserve the
 nineteenth-century Connaught District Lunatic Asylum buildings and repurpose them as tourism
 and heritage facilities that will result in a substantial rural regeneration initiative in Co. Galway.
 Having published widely on the history of this institution, Walsh’s role is to support preservation
 and adaption strategies that places the socio-historical importance of the institution at the heart
 of national and EU funding development applications. This project is part of the History group’s
 new research and research-led teaching focus on History and Heritage, especially in the area of
 Dark Tourism, and Health Tourism. Skillen and Shepherd will offer a new module as part of the
 Health History MSc (in 2021-22) that focuses on the commodification of historical sites,
 especially those now being marketed as ‘dark tourism’ sites. The group are also currently laying
 the foundations for a new project, through GCU’s ‘living lab’ which will establish a Common
 Good Hub in partnership with Milton Community Centre (located in an area of multiple
 deprivation) in north Glasgow. The Hub, led by colleagues in the School of Health and Life
 Sciences, will receive £1,600,000 from the Scottish Government and Glasgow City Council to

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enable innovative approaches to community engagement and mutually beneficial partnerships
 with the local community for research-based learning, student learning and local research
 teams. These will focus on youth unemployment, drug use and crime and family support groups,
 and the History group will develop an oral history of the area, building a community archive that
 will preserve the history of the area and contextualise its development, facilitating the creation of
 a ‘history from within’ as well as a ‘history from below’.


 Subject research infrastructure contribution in the UK and Internationally

 History staff have contributed to external reviews of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees
 nationally and internationally, as well as providing expert reviews of funding applications for
 bodies at home and abroad. Skillen was an External Panel Member on the validation event for
 the MA Sport History, Media and Culture, at the University of Bangor, Wales. She also served as
 an external assessor for the internal review of the International Masters in Management, Law
 and Humanities of Sport for De Montfort University in Leicester (England), SDA Bocconi School
 of Management in Milan (Italy) and the University of Neuchâtel (Switzerland) and Fédération
 Internationale de Football Association (FIFA). Walsh has served as a reviewer on the Carnegie
 Research Incentive Grant scheme in 2019 and 2020, and Trinity College Dublin’s ‘Trinity Long
 Room Hub MSCA Cofund Fellowship Programme (2017-20)’. She was one of the external
 assessors on the University of Limerick’s promotions committee (2019), and the National
 University of Ireland’s (Maynooth) History Department Review (2021). Walsh and Greenlees
 have reviewed grant applications for the Wellcome Trust, and Greenlees has been a member of
 the ESRC Social Science Peer Review College since 2017, and a reviewer on the Carnegie
 Research Incentive Grant Scheme (2020). She is also Advisor to Population Health, ISD and
 Health Protection Scotland, on a history preservation project for new Public Health Scotland.
 Shepherd was appointed the external examiner for the War Studies MSc at Glasgow University
 in 2020.


 Peer Reviewing

 Between 2014-20, our historians have refereed article submissions, and scholarly manuscripts,
 to a variety of health, sports, gender and military history journals, and academic presses.
 Journals include Social History of Medicine, Technology and Culture, Labour History Review,
 Scottish Archives, Medical History, English Historical Review, German History, Journal of
 Genocide Research, Journal of Slavic Military Studies, War in History, Oral History Journal, Irish
 Economic and Social History, Medical Humanities, Journal of Women’s History, Gender &
 History, European Journal of Women’s Studies, Women’s History Review, Social Enterprise
 Journal and Feminist Media Histories: An International Journal.

 Group members have refereed full manuscript proposals for the University of Illinois Press, Yale
 University Press, Indiana University Press, Manchester University Press, Routledge Press,
 Nevada University Press, Palgrave Press, Edinburgh University Press, and Oxford University
 Press.


 External Committee Membership

 Murray is the current Chair of the Social Enterprise Collection (Scotland) Committee. The
 committee consists of academics, archivists, social enterprise practitioners, and Scottish
 Government representatives. This committee is dedicated to the development of this archival
 collection, comprised of academics, archivists, social enterprise practitioners and Scottish
 Government representatives - Murray led a successful bid to government for the collections
 support and further development. Walsh was Secretary to the Society for the Study of
 Nineteenth Century Ireland, Secretary to the Association for Medical Humanities, co-founder of
 the Irish Association for Medical Humanities, and on the Advisory Board for the National Library

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Ireland. Greenlees was a member of the Program Committee for the American Association for
 the History of Medicine (2018) and sits on the History Advisory Board of the Queen’s Nursing
 Institute Scotland. She is a member of the Steering Group of the Glasgow Medical Humanities
 Network and has held several roles in the Society for the Social History of Medicine, including
 membership of the undergraduate and postgraduate Research Prize Committees, and
 Postgraduate Co-ordinator on the Executive Committee until 2015. Skillen was a Board Member
 for Scottish Women in Sport from 2014 to 2018, and is currently on the Board of the Scottish
 Sporting Heritage Consortium (since 2018). Shepherd is an academic Board Member for a two-
 year multimedia project, ‘Massacres in Occupied Italy (1943-5) in the Memory of the
 Perpetrators’, based at the University of Cologne and financed by the Foreign Ministry of the
 German Federal Republic.


 External Examining

 Skillen was external examiner for the University of Chichester’s BA (Hons) Sport, Business &
 Management; BA (Hons) Sport, Lifestyle & Culture; BA (Hons) Sport Studies, and BA (Hons)
 Sport, Development & Coaching, 2014-2018. Walsh was external examiner for the M.A. Medical
 Humanities at Birkbeck University, 2014-17; for the B.A. (Hons) in Irish Studies at Trinity
 College, Dublin (2015-19), and the M.A. in Family History at the University of Limerick, 2017-
 2020. Greenlees served as the external examiner for the MA in the Social and Cultural History of
 Medicine at University College, Dublin, 2013-17. The History staff have also acted as external
 examiners for doctoral candidates at Glasgow University, the University of Limerick, the
 University of Ulster, Stirling University, Aberdeen University, University College, Cork, and the
 University of Dundee.


 Conference Organisation and Contributions to Learned Societies

 Greenlees was co-organiser of ‘Health History in Action’, a conference held under the aegis of
 the Society for the Social History of Medicine in 2015 and also organised the Postgraduate
 Career Development Workshop and Conference for SHM in August of that year. She had
 organised the ‘Caring for the Poor in Twentieth-Century Britain’ workshop at GCU the previous
 year, in collaboration with the Queen’s Nursing Institute Scotland, and led a team of ECRs in the
 organisation of an Early Career Workshop for Health Historians at Oxford University. Skillen was
 Chair of the British Society for Sports History (2014-17), elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical
 Society (2015) and is a Committee Member of Women’s History Scotland (2017-present).
 Murray co-organises the annual John Pearce Memorial Lecture (since 2015), attracting
 substantial non-academic, third-sector audiences, and Walsh was an Organising Committee
 member of the 28th International Association for Feminist Economics at GCU, with an attendance
 of over 400 international academics and ECRs.




                                                                                            Page 10
