Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment:UoA6

 1.Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1.Unit context and structure
Since REF2014, we have realigned our internal structure in a way that maximises our ability to deliver
world-leading research and impact through an innovative integration of veterinary science and
biosciences. Specifically, we have placed the highly interdisciplinary Institute of Biodiversity, Animal
Health and Comparative Medicine (BAHCM, 51.05FTE) at the centre of our work in agricultural,
veterinary and food sciences. BAHCM is one of seven Research Institutes, along with three Schools,
within the College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Science (MVLS). Complementary strengths, e.g.
in clinically oriented research and molecular virology, come from other Schools and Institutes,
including the School of Veterinary Medicine (SVM, 9.0FTE) and the MRC University of Glasgow
Centre for Virus Research (CVR, 2.8FTE) within the Institute of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation
(III).
Critical inter-disciplinary expertise has been brought in through new collaborations with other units
within the University of Glasgow (UofG), involving researchers in public health and social sciences
e.g. Institute of Health and Wellbeing (IHW); School of Social and Political Sciences (SSPS), and in
natural sciences and engineering e.g. School of Chemistry (SoC); Institute of Molecular, Cell and
Systems Biology (MCSB); School of Engineering (SoE); School of Geographical and Earth Sciences
(SGES). More broadly, an essential component of our research strategy is the wide range of internal
and external partners in the UK and abroad, especially in Africa.
The number of staff within UoA6 has remained stable across the period (61.7 to 64.9FTE) while our
annual research funding per FTE has increased by ~26% from £7.27M (2013/14) to an average of
£9.11M pa (2014/15 - 2019/20). Due to retirals as well as internal and external moves, we have had
the opportunity to significantly refresh our staffing and to align it with our strategic objectives, through
20 new appointments, 18 of which have been at a junior research level (Section 2.1). Many of these
appointments have been proleptic, reflecting an exceptionally high number of successful research
fellowship applications (23 awards >£100k, average £465k) during the current review period.
Strategic investment and appointments in areas that complemented our existing strengths in animal,
human and ecosystem health - and bringing in technical expertise that cuts across these, such as in
mathematical modelling, statistics, machine learning, and bioinformatics - has opened up new
research areas and resulted in significant achievements during the review period. Key examples
include:
    •   Strengthening of vector biology with recruitment of three new lecturer positions and
        investment in insectary facilities leading to innovative collaboration with SoC on vector
        surveillance using spectroscopy, new vector control methods with IP licensing, and award
        success (MRC, Wellcome Trust (WT) fellowships; ERC, £5.56M).
    •   A strategic initiative in developing bacteriology including a new £500K investment (Royal
        Society Wolfson award plus UofG matched funding) in laboratory infrastructure, creating the
        One Health Research into Bacterial Infectious Diseases (OHRBID) lab, five new
        lecturer/senior lecturer positions and links to economics and social sciences (SSPS),
        resulting in new income generation (e.g. MRC-funded “Supporting the National Action Plan
        for Antimicrobial Resistance in Tanzania”, SNAP-AMR, £1.77M; fellowships totalling
        >£500k).
    •   Recruitment of a chair (Hanley) in One Health and Environmental Economics – thereby
        bridging into established expertise in health economics at UofG and adding an important new
        dimension to multi-disciplinary funding applications (e.g. MRC, ESRC/NERC, EC, total value
        >£2.9M).


                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Appointment of a chair (Corr) in Small Animal Orthopaedic Surgery leading to new
       interdisciplinary work (with MCSB and SoE) in biomechanics and bone stem-cell research,
       to enable repair of large-scale bone defects in animal and human patients (Cheng 2019, Adv
       Sci) which received high media and public interest.

1.2.Research and impact strategy
The ‘One Health’ concept recognises that animal and human health and the functioning of natural
ecosystems are intimately linked. The distinctive strength of UofG’s UoA6 and its approach to
agricultural, veterinary and food sciences is our focus on moving ‘One Health’ from a slogan to
practical implementation, by focusing on fundamental research questions in study systems where
our work can generate demonstrable impact on accelerated time scales (Sections 1.3, 4).
Interdisciplinarity arises naturally from this strategy due to the complexity of biological systems once
they are viewed in their actual environmental, social, and economic contexts. We attract strong early
career scientists, who are often at the forefront of introducing novel and innovative ways of
addressing long-standing research problems. It is these three elements - taking the research to
where it is most immediately relevant, nurturing interdisciplinary thinking, and investing in the next
generation of researchers – that defines our unit and approach to One Health and that underlies our
success in terms of research income, outputs, and translation.
Much of our work in One Health is taking place in an international context and aimed at improving
human and animal health in ways that contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development
Goals. A unifying theme is the realisation that the complex problems underlying health and economic
inequalities can only be overcome by taking into account their biological, social, economic, political
and environmental dimensions. UoA6 researchers are at the forefront of this approach by
collaborating with social, physical and life scientists and by building long-term partnerships with
governments, academic institutions, and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in the Global
South, in particular East Africa. Thus, developing new links to social sciences (SSPS, IHW) have
been important strategic steps in extending the reach and impact of our work (e.g. SNAP-AMR).
Success is evident from the ability to attract significant amounts of research funding: in terms of
Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) alone, UoA6 researchers have led successful bids with
the total value of awards close to £6.7M.
Our integrative One Health approach also allows us to address global challenges with respect to
health and sustainable food production more broadly and within a UK context. We have world leading
strengths in animal physiology that underpin our search for novel scientific solutions in research
challenges ranging from fisheries management and animal welfare to healthy ageing and coping
with environmental change. Continued investment in unique research infrastructure (Section 3.2),
new strategic recruitment (four new appointments in animal physiology) and engagement with
industries (e.g. livestock, aquaculture, and energy sector) have enabled the establishment of new
research foci. This has been particularly successful with respect to studying the effects of
environmental stressors (e.g. rising temperatures, light pollution, harmful compounds, harvesting)
on animal performance, productivity and wellbeing. By connecting fundamental research in
physiology to urgent applied problems, this strategy has attracted substantial awards across a broad
range of funders (EC/ER, NERC, BBSRC, NIH, Leverhulme, total >£8.7M) and generated notable
outputs (e.g. Auer 2018, Nature Commun; Hindell 2020, Nature) and impact (Section 4).

Across our research portfolio, we have taken deliberate steps to ensure that the delivery of impact
is firmly embedded within our activities, including:
   •   Building partnerships with end users and stakeholders early with the aim of fostering those
       relationships long term. This is evident in our work in Africa but serves as a wider model and
       our approach is often recognised as exemplary (e.g. 2017 BBSRC’s Innovator of the Year
       Award, 2016 Guardian University Award).
   •   Leveraging institutional and external funds (e.g. UofG’s knowledge exchange (KE) awards
       totalling £128k, BBSRC-Impact Accelerator (IAA), MRC-Confidence in Concept, and GCRF-
       Translational Awards; total £405k), to ensure that research findings translate into concrete


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       action on the ground, including the policy level (e.g. EU, national governments, Sections 1.3
       and 4.).
   •   Securing the long-term sustainability of partnerships and research engagement through staff
       exchanges, studentships, industry secondments and capacity building (e.g. funding from
       GCRF, Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, industry partners; Sections 1.3 and 4).

1.3.Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact
In our REF2014 submission we outlined four strategic objectives (SO) for UoA6 which are listed
below, along with brief summaries of how they have and are being achieved (new
appointments/fellows indicated with asterisk*) and how they are leading to impact (highlighted in
blue):

SO1.Advance the understanding of the ecology of disease within ecosystems, developing
novel methods of analysis of biodiversity and quantification of health in ecosystems
Controlling vector-borne/parasitic diseases. Our strategy has been to form interdisciplinary
teams of researchers that engage with low- and middle-income country (LMIC) partners directly and
that combine expertise in vector ecology and parasitology (Ferguson, Ranford-Cartwright,
MacLeod, Gilbert*, Baldini*, Auty*, Howick*) with skills in mathematical modelling (new
MRC/ERC-funded fellow Viana*, Matthiopoulos), statistics (Johnson*) and machine learning
(Babayan*). The range of expertise has generated significant outputs (e.g. Viana 2016, PNAS) and
allowed the team to build new effective collaborations e.g. with physical chemists (Wynne - SoC),
applying mid-infrared spectroscopy to determine age and infection status of mosquitos. The work
has led to substantial funding (MRC £589k) and impact activity, for example, a training workshop on
machine learning in Tanzania and awards to Tanzanian partners (e.g. £750k MRC African Research
Leaders Award to Ifakara Health Institute, Ferguson is UK PI). A flourishing collaboration with
UofG’s Bio-Electronics Unit has resulted in a novel method for mosquito surveillance, supported by
KE funding (patent application pending). Upgrading our insectaries and adding new strategic
partnerships in West Africa and Latin America has been instrumental in securing new PhD
studentships and generating new funding (fellowship/awards to Viana*, Howick*, MacLeod;
£4.97M). New recruit Lamberton* focusses on neglected zoonotic parasites, combining molecular,
epidemiological, social science and economic aspects in innovative ways (e.g. ERC-funded
SCHISTO-PERSIST £1.1M; Crellen 2016, Clin Inf Dis). Her arrival has already had synergistic
effects e.g. new collaborative funding on parasitic worm control (Drugs for Neglected Diseases
Initiative award to Lamberton*, Devaney, Ranford-Cartwright, £699k).

Adding expertise in bacteriology/antimicrobial resistance (AMR). To complement our existing
strengths in parasitic and viral diseases, we identified bacteriology and AMR as important research
areas to invest in. A successful application to the Wolfson Laboratory Refurbishment scheme from
the Royal Society resulted in a new £500K investment in laboratory infrastructure, creating the new
OHRBID lab. In parallel, we created five new positions in bacteriology (Forde*, Lembo*, Halliday*,
Oravcova*, Llewellyn*) to complement existing expertise in field/molecular epidemiology
(Cleaveland, Zadoks, Biek, Weir) and population modelling (Matthews, Haydon). These
investments, combined with easy access to sequencing and bioinformatics support (e.g. Glasgow
Polyomics; GP) and strong collaborative ties with social scientists (e.g. newly appointed lecturer
Davis, SSPS), have created powerful new partnerships. This has enabled us to secure significant
new income (MRC -£2M; BBSRC -£3.3M) and fellowships (Lembo*, Forde*) totalling >£500k and
led to important publications (Subbiah 2020, Nature Commun; Caudell 2018, Lancet Planet Health).
Follow-on achievements include award-winning engagement with government and other
stakeholders in Tanzania (SO2) and the development of new diagnostic tests to support livestock-
owning communities (SO3).

Rabies elimination. UoA6 are world leaders in delivering the science that underpins the control and
elimination of rabies worldwide. Pioneering work (Cleaveland, Haydon, Hampson, Lembo) has
helped to shape the World Health Organisation (WHO)’s strategy for eliminating canine rabies
through mass dog vaccination. Recent work has focused on innovative approaches and new

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
technologies e.g. mobile phones as surveillance tools, the integration of social science data, and
genomic epidemiology (e.g. Mtema 2016, PLOS Med). While maintaining a focus on sub-Saharan
Africa, current work has extended its global reach with additional projects in the Americas (Streicker,
Biek, Hampson) and the Philippines (Hampson) and stronger links to public health, underpinned
by substantial awards (total £5.35M; WT fellowships – Hampson, Streicker; MRC-funding with
IHWs Wyke, Craig). Strong partnerships with governments and non-governmental stakeholders (e.g.
WHO, Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization - GAVI) have further ensured the delivery of
significant impact for example by influencing global policy and resource allocation with respect to
rabies control (Hampson 2019, Lancet Inf Dis; Impact Case Study – ICS, Section 4). As testimony
to its strong impact and excellence, this work won the 2016 Guardian University Award for best
international project.

Biodiversity and ecosystem health. Our partnerships with natural resource managers are enabling
us to provide guidance on how to maintain the health of multi-use ecosystem. Reeve uses
computational approaches to examine biodiversity changes (NERC/BBSRC; £150k), while new EC-
funded research (African BioServices – Hopcraft*, £756k, with Tanzanian National Parks, Zoos, and
philanthropist donors) is assessing how local communities are benefitting from protected areas but
also how human land use is changing these ecosystems in profound ways (Veldhuis 2019, Science).
Often, such research naturally leads to high level impact: Bailey’s study demonstrating the negative
effect of trawling on vulnerable deep-sea ecosystems (Clarke 2015, Curr Biol) has since triggered a
EU policy change (ICS, Section 4). The appointments of Hanley* (environmental economics) and
Welden* (marine pollution), now allow us to study these types of problems in their broader
interdisciplinary context (e.g. ESRC/NERC-funded award on marine plastics, £739k). The
appointment of four new lecturers working at the interface of environmental change and physiology
(Boonekamp*, Dominoni*, Hill*, Stevenson*) has facilitated the creation of new research
programmes (with Monaghan and others), most notably the role of light pollution and other
environmental stressors in disrupting biological rhythms and the consequences for animal and
human health. This work, also bridging into immunology (collaboration with new appointment
Babayan*) is underwritten by substantial funding from NERC (two Highlight Topic grants, £3M),
Leverhulme (£950k) and BBSRC (£600k).

SO2.Conduct clinically oriented research in livestock contributing to food security, food
safety and carbon-efficient production, aligned with MVLS areas of strength in ecosystem
health, population biology, infection, immunity and inflammation.

Animal health and international development. Within the One Health agenda, our research
examines the compounding effects of livestock diseases on livelihoods, food security and economic
growth in LMIC. Maintaining a geographic focus on East Africa (Tanzania, Kenya), where research
and stakeholder partnerships are well established, recent work has expanded in scope. Specifically,
new research strands in animal health, with implications for food security and food safety, have been
developed (e.g. Halliday 2020, Lancet Inf Dis; Bryers-Casey 2018, Nature Ecol Evol) as a direct
consequence of recent infrastructure investment and staff appointments (Auty*, Lembo*, Forde*,
Halliday*, Oravcova*). Major funding for this comes from UKRI e.g. three BBSRC Zoonoses and
Emerging Livestock Systems grants (£3.3M) and follow-on awards (BBSRC - £448k; Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation -£941k). Sound structures are in place for ensuring the translation of this work
through strong links to governments and other stakeholders: two BBSRC IAAs (£230k), UKRI
translation awards (~£300k) and flexible UofG KE funding (£22k), enabled workshops and
engagement events with partners in Tanzania, which led to significant impact at the national policy
level (ICS, Section 4). In recognition of its excellence and outstanding achievements in this area, the
UofG team (led by Cleaveland) won a BBSRC’s ‘Innovators of the Year’ award in 2017.

Supporting the UK livestock sector. UoA6 staff are making recognised contributions to the control
of livestock pathogens and outbreak preparedness in the UK (awards to Matthews, Mellor, Biek
totalling >£2.4M; DEFRA, BBSRC, EC e.g. Pascall 2020, PLOS Biol). The Centre of Expertise in
Animal Disease Outbreaks Livestock disease in Scotland (EPIC), funded by the Scottish
Government, provides strategic policy guidance on all aspects of animal disease management and
control. EPIC has about 40 research and support staff members, of whom 7 have been based at

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UofG (including Gilbert* and Auty*). UoA6’s Mellor is the current director of EPIC (2016-2021,
£1.3M to UofG). Work on viral livestock pathogens also involves collaborations with CVR scientists
(Murcia, Willett, Hosie, e.g. Zhu 2019, PLOS Pathog), supported by MRC’s £26.3M Quinquennial
Core Funds Award to CVR, which was recently designated an OIE (World Organisation for Animal
Health) Collaborating Centre in Viral Genomics and Bioinformatics. Adding to the research base for
livestock health is SVM’s Centre for Production Animal Health & Food Safety (Jonsson and Mellor
are members).

Building on UofG’s global reputation in parasitology, researchers in our unit have been at the
forefront of identifying new ways to reduce parasite burdens and to overcome the widespread
problems of drug treatment failure. Devaney leads a UK-wide consortium (with Mable, Britton,
Matthews, Laing*) that aims to identify the genetic changes underlying anthelmintic drug resistance
by bundling expertise in parasitology, evolutionary genomics, mathematical modelling, climate
change and agricultural economics (BBSRC strategic LoLa award: BUG consortium, £1.36M). Early
achievements include contribution to the first comparative genomic analysis of major parasitic worms
(International Helminth Genomes Consortium 2019, Nature Genet) and a WT clinical research
fellowship (Laing*, £934k). Complementary BBSRC-funded work examines mechanisms of
resistance using an experimental worm model (A Page, £386k).

SO3.Invent new approaches to diagnosis, prophylaxis, and therapy for animal health
problems in all species and develop technology that links advances in sensor systems,
imaging, and bioengineering with recent advances in animal biology in health and disease.

New data and technologies. The digitisation of large-scale animal health data is creating powerful
opportunities for epidemiological evaluations of risk factors and interventions. Parkin is a world
leader in equine health and leverages large data sets provided by the horse racing industry to identify
risk factor for racing injuries and how they could be prevented. Strong buy-in from the industry and
charities has provided significant funding (£638k in total e.g. Horserace Betting Levy Board, The
Horse Trust, The Jockey Club) and resulted in fundamental change in horse racing practices (ICS,
Section 4). State-of-the-art remote sensing technologies are used to develop and assess sustainable
approaches for livestock production by Jonsson (with industry partner Harbro and SGES; BBSRC,
£329k). McKeegan and Bain are internationally recognised experts for improving food safety and
animal welfare in poultry, Hill* and Jonsson have complementary expertise for cattle production.
McKeegan’s research led to new technology for slaughter (commercialised by LiveTec) and her use
of low atmospheric pressure stunning (Humane Slaughter Association Award 2019) was the first
new method for poultry slaughter to be approved by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA,
Section 4).

Diagnostics, surveillance, and vaccines. Improving animal health requires reliable diagnostic
tools and safe vaccines. Our work has brought about significant advances in field-based diagnostics,
which are a major limiting factor to livestock disease control, especially in low resource settings
(Halliday 2017, Science). Long-standing collaborations with The Pirbright Institute address this for
foot-and-mouth-disease virus (FMDV; Section 4). For anthrax, a new staining technique, validated
by PCR and culture methods, has meant a step change for rapid identification of cases (Aminu 2020,
PLOS Neglect Trop Dis; Forde*, Lembo*). This method has revealed the true extent of anthrax
mortality and morbidly in Tanzania and played a major role in anthrax now being listed among the
top five priority zoonotic diseases by the Tanzanian government (BBSRC/GCRF IAA, see ICS,
Section 4). Documenting the extent of neglect regarding endemic anthrax has been a critical factor
for securing subsequent funding by Forde* and Lembo* (BBSRC, Academy of Medical Sciences,
£505k). Willett and Hosie have a successful track record of working closely with biomedical
companies (e.g. Merial), which led to improved safety and reliability of pet vaccines and diagnostic
tests by changing industry practices and EU legislation (Section 4).




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
SO4.Conduct high-quality basic laboratory science that defines molecular and cellular
mechanisms in normal physiology, and that subsequently underpin the development of
animal diseases.

Animal models of ageing. We are using state-of-the art tools to gain fundamental insights in animal
physiology and function that are critical for understanding the conditions leading to non-
communicable disease. UofG has a strong reputation for its work on aging and senescence in non-
model organisms. Ground-breaking research by Monaghan on telomeres as markers of ageing and
Selman and Metcalfe on mitochondrial function and ageing (e.g. Saline 2015, Biol Lett) has
attracted substantial funding (e.g. three ERC Advanced Grants, BBSRC, MRC, NERC, the
Leverhulme Trust, AXA Foundation, EC, total >£8M) and established UofG as a world leader in this
field. Building on this reputation, we recently recruited Boonekamp*, who will add complementary
expertise in experimental field systems to study senescence in animal models including
invertebrates. Corr* examines biological markers of healthy ageing in the highly topical context of
animal cloning (Sinclair 2016, Nature Comm; AltMetric Score in top 1st percentile).

Animal physiology underpinning health. UoA6 hosts a critical mass of research groups interested
in the mechanistic basis of organismal variation in animals, including the role of metabolism,
development, and endocrine function. These groups combine a broad range of complementary
technical expertise that facilitates high profile interdisciplinary projects and industry partnerships
(e.g. Eckersall on acute phase proteins) and benefits from the access to state-of-the art technology
through GP. For example, recent work on sheep examined how reproductive hormone exposure
during puberty can change development and behaviour later in life or across generations (Evans -
BBSRC, £559k, with AstraZeneca; NIH, £1.13M). The former project produced a new method for
steroid profiling from biological materials using mass spectrometry (developed with GP), which found
subsequent application to study hormones over time in free ranging ungulates (Hopcraft*) and for
quantifying steroids in human foetuses exposed to maternal smoking (O’Shaughnessy 2019, PLoS
Biol). Similar synergistic effects are expected from the recent appointment of Stevenson* who adds
expertise in studying biological rhythms using molecular and experimental approaches (e.g. Bao et
al. 2019, PNAS), and Boonekamp*, Dominoni*, and Hill* who have overlapping interests with other
groups but add complementary expertise in animal ecology and welfare.

Fish biology and physiology. Our strength in fish biology, including its relation to aquaculture and
fisheries, stems from a critical mass of researchers with complementary expertise (Adams, Bailey,
Elmer, Killen, Llewellyn*, Metcalfe, Parsons), creating an interdisciplinary perspective integrating
ecology, physiology, behaviour, evolution, disease, and food production. The group further benefits
from state-of-the-art aquaria and research facilities (Section 3.2). Current projects are not only
notable for their broad funding base (awards since 2014 totalling >£7M; BBSRC, NERC, EC, two
ERC Advanced and one ERC Starting Grants) and outputs (e.g. Jacobs 2018, Nature Ecol Evol;
McLean 2018, Curr Biol) but also for their strong track record of attracting industry awards (£499k,
e.g. in the energy sector (SSE), fish health (BioMar Ltd, Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre) and
environmental protection (Zero Waste Scotland)). An important step has been the appointment of
Llewellyn*, who has added complementary expertise in fish microbiota and disease, which has
already led to new collaborative awards (e.g. £588k BBSRC-funded award with Metcalfe and SoE;
EU-funded ‘Beyond 2020’ consortium, £2M). Expertise in respiratory physiology brought in by Killen
(permanently recruited in 2017 after two consecutive NERC fellowships) has led to extensive
collaborations (with Metcalfe, Parsons, Lindstrom) on fish metabolic phenotypes and evolution
induced by harvesting and climate change (e.g. multiple NERC awards, value >£1.7M; ERC Starting
Grant PHYSFISH, £1.15M).

1.4.Future strategic aims for research and impact (2021-2026)
Our recruitment strategy has strengthened and extended our interdisciplinary research potential,
including a strong cohort of promising early career scientists, while strong ties to non-academic
partners have enabled immediate impact with end users and beneficiaries. Combined, these steps
put us in a strong position to advance our future research agenda in agricultural, veterinary and food
sciences. Specifically, our strategic recruitment will facilitate creation of agile and fluid

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
interdisciplinary research teams that are well positioned to successfully address current research
challenges at the UK and global scale (e.g. combining disease control, social science and
economics). We have further identified areas of international excellence and reputation where we
have had demonstrable success in terms of funding, outputs and impact that puts us ahead of most
UK competitors: Population & Ecosystem Health, Food Security and Production, Diagnostics and
Disease Prevention and Basic Function & Physiology of Animals. Within these four themes, our
specific aims are to:

1)Population & Ecosystem Health
   •   enhance the understanding of the ecology of infectious diseases and how zoonotic and
       vector-borne pathogens affect biological systems, from individuals to species communities,
       in the context of environmental change
   •   contribute to science underpinning disease elimination and resistance management using
       interdisciplinary approaches including evolutionary biology, modelling, qualitative social
       science, and economics
   •   support the development of new ways to maintain the health and functioning of ecosystems
       in the face of increased anthropogenic pressure

2)Food Security & Production
   •   provide the science base for sustainable production of food in the UK and abroad
   •   develop better tools for disease outbreak response and forecasting through integration of
       environmental, biological, and social science data
   •   help to achieve major development goals in the global South by breaking the feedback loops
       between poverty and neglect for animal and zoonotic diseases and engage in international
       capacity strengthening

3)Diagnostics & Disease Prevention
   •   develop new approaches for enhancing animal health and welfare through better diagnostic
       and assessment tools, leveraging continued advances in omics technologies, imaging, and
       computation
   •   identify novel ways to treat and prevent non-communicable diseases of farm and companion
       animals

4)Basic Function & Physiology of Animals
   •   increase our understanding of the natural variation in physiological processes and
       phenotypes and their response to anthropogenic selection pressures (e.g. environmental
       toxins, light pollution, global warming, over-fishing)
   •   develop markers of ageing in animal populations to uncover the environmental factors
       influencing ageing processes and their ecological and physiological consequences
   •   understand how physiological and immunological processes unfold in the wild through model
       systems that combine work in free-ranging populations, semi-wild settings, and laboratory
       experiments
   •   understand how physiological processes can be programmed by conditions experienced
       during earlier life stages

1.5.Research Integrity
UofG has engrained the importance of research integrity aspiration at an institutional level and our
approach is now showcased as exemplary by the UK Research Integrity Office and Royal Society.
Open access (OA) publishing for example is promoted through Enlighten (UofG’s repository service
for published research material), which allows to continuously track OA compliance. Where OA has

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
not been addressed, individual PIs are contacted and requested to confirm when action has been
taken. New staff are encouraged to attend briefing sessions on OA for publications and research
data management. The success of this strategy is particularly evident for UoA6: the percentage of
our outputs that are fully OA has risen from 40% to 97% (2014-2019) and staff web pages directly
link not only to publications but also open data sets. All staff within UoA6 have ORCID numbers,
allowing unambiguous assignment of research outputs to individuals.

All PIs and postgraduate students are required to undertake research integrity training and adhere
to the University’s code of practice in research. Likewise, The University’s Postgraduate Research
(PGR) Code of Practice sets out guidelines to students and staff for each stage in a postgraduate
student’s life (Section 2.3).

Strict guidelines and review mechanisms ensure that ethical approval is in place before any research
involving animal or human subjects is carried out. The SVM Ethics and Welfare Committee considers
applications for prospective studies and retrospective analyses/clinical audit concerning all
veterinary species. The College Ethics Committee oversees projects involving questionnaires, which
ask personal questions of the owner/human subject. For projects that fall under the Animal Scientific
Procedures Act 1986, the Animal Welfare and Ethics Research Committee considers ethical
approval.

Strong emphasis is placed on providing resources and training to facilitate KE and impact (Section
2.2) and on effective sharing and management of research data. To facilitate the latter,
biostatisticians and bioinformaticians are embedded within Institutes/Schools. There is a strong
ethos of supporting open-data and open-software through public repositories (e.g. Dryad, Zenodo,
Figshare, GitHub), or dedicated web interfaces e.g. Scottish COVID-19 Response Consortium
(Reeve/Mathews lead the RAMP modelling initiative); CVR’s RABV-GLUE (rabies virus genome
analysis tool; Biek, Hampson, Streicker).

 2.People


2.1.Staffing strategy
We aim to provide an environment to support a positive and vibrant interdisciplinary research culture
with a strong emphasis on the provision of early career development. The total number of staff (67
representing 64.9FTEs) being returned comprises 28 professors, 8 readers, 10 senior lecturers, 12
lecturers, 2 veterinary clinicians, and 7 independently funded research fellows, of which a high
proportion meet the REF-definition of early career researchers (ECRs), increasing from 8% in
REF2014 to 19% in 2020.

Recruitment. Our staffing strategy over the past review period has focussed on filling identified gaps
in skills and expertise (e.g. bacteriology, economics) and on expanding areas of strength (e.g. vector
biology, physiology). This has facilitated the creation of broader research teams that are able to
address the complex, interdisciplinary research questions that typify One Health. Another major
focus for recruitment has been to enhance our capabilities in computational biology and novel
technologies (e.g. mathematical modelling, statistics, machine learning, bioinformatics), which are
themes that cut across many research systems and are thus strengthening our research base more
generally. Filling these positions involved a roughly even combination of targeted recruitment and
open searches.
Key new appointments during the past review period include chairs in One Health and Environmental
Economics (Hanley), and Small Animal Orthopaedic Surgery (Corr). In addition, we have made
numerous new early career appointments: Forde, Oravcova (bacteriology), Lembo, Halliday
(bacteriology/epidemiology), Llewellyn (fish microbiome/disease), Welden (marine pollution),
Lamberton (parasitology), Johnson, Viana (modelling/statistics), Hopcraft (tropical ecology),
Baldini, Auty (vector biology), Dominoni (urban ecology/physiology), Stevenson, Hill,
Boonekamp (physiology), Babayan (immunology/bioinformatics), and Weir (infectious disease/
bioinformatics).

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Fellowships. We have a vigorous programme to assist the development of Fellowship applications
including writing support, internal review of applications, connecting applicants with previous award
holders, and practice interviews. The UofG Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) Leadership Fellowships
provide up to £100k of additional support to fellowship applicants, and a further one-year salary
support for 3- and 4-year fellowships. The success of this programme is indicated by the 23
fellowship awards >£100k made to UoA6 over the REF period. Examples of prestigious fellowship
awards include
   •   WT Sir Henry Dale to Streicker (2015), Howick (2020), Fornace (starts 2021)
   •   WT Senior Fellowships to Hampson (2018), MacLeod (2018), Streicker (2020)
   •   WT Sir Henry Wellcome to Quintana (starts 2021)
   •   WT Clinical Research Career Development Fellowship to Laing (2019)
   •   BBSRC Future Leader Fellowship to Forde (2018)
   •   Leverhulme Leadership Award to Stevenson (2019); Early Career Fellowship to Jacobs
       (2020)
   •   Nine EC Marie Curie Fellowships awarded to ECRs
Our retention of fellows is excellent: over the past decade, we have made permanent commitments
to seven senior fellowship holders (4F: 3M) and only two fellowship holders (1F: 1M) have left.

Internal links. Many of our staff have joint appointments between BAHCM and SVM or links with
other units and centres within UofG, e.g.
   •   The Wellcome Centre for Integrative Parasitology (WCIP) (Cleaveland, Haydon,
       Lamberton, Howick)
   •   The MRC-UofG Centre for Virus Research (CVR) (Hosie, Murcia, Willett are based there,
       Streicker is joint appointment, Biek, Cleaveland, Reeve are affiliated)
   •   Scottish Centre for Production Animal Health & Food Safety (Jonsson is Programme
       Director, Mellor)
   •   Glasgow Centre for International Development (Haydon is Director)
   •   The Boyd Orr Centre for Population and Ecosystem Health (Reeve, Lembo, Matthews share
       directorship)

2.2.Staff development
Mentoring. All staff and postdocs are strongly encouraged to take advantage of the mentoring
schemes available both locally within Schools and Institutes and at the College level. This variety
provides a choice regarding the gender, seniority, and discipline of their mentor. New appointments
are provided with a ‘mentoring toolkit’ as part of their induction to help them navigate this process.
Particular emphasis is placed on providing strong mentorship to ECRs (see below).

Communication. Issues relating to staffing and support can be raised locally (e.g. Institute
Management Group, School Executive Committee; 1:1 surgeries with Institute and School Directors
or at College Management Group meetings). Staff surveys are conducted within Institutes and
Schools, and in the main indicate a high level of staff satisfaction (Section 2.4). Quality control for of
research outputs and grant proposals is supported through several initiatives (details below).

Shared Interest Groups (SIGs). Staff members are strongly encouraged to form and contribute to
SIGs, which bring together researchers from within the unit as well as other parts of the university
on specific themes (‘e.g. ‘Vector Biology and Disease’; ‘Physiology and Welfare’). SIGs are run
according to the needs and ideas of their members; most have their own budgets and seminars and
invite speakers and organise workshops or annual meetings. SIGs also play a critical role in

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
providing support structures for PhD students, postdocs and ECRs by creating opportunities for
practice talks or internal reviews of manuscripts and funding applications.

Seminars. Seminars are arranged at SIG, Institute/School and College levels, providing staff and
students with regular opportunities to discuss ongoing and proposed research; external speakers
are invited where appropriate to enhance discussions. Sponsored events and award lectures (e.g.
Blodwyn Lloyd Bins, Darwin Day, Sir William Weipers, Richard M Elliot Memorial Award, Sir Michael
Stoker Award) also provide staff and students with an opportunity to nominate and invite external
speakers who are leaders in their field.

Training courses. The University’s Researcher Development Initiative runs a number of bespoke
courses that are available to staff and PGRs on research governance and organization – staff are
encouraged through the Performance and Development Review (P&DR) process to enrol for these
courses as part of their personal development.

Research outputs. Continuing emphasis is placed on quality rather than quantity of outputs. Staff
are encouraged to be realistically ambitious and reassured at P&DR that the time required to develop
the highest quality of research is understood, and pressure to deliver publications on a short-term
basis is minimised. Support mechanisms to facilitate this include:
   •   workshops and hold writing retreats on how to write a 4* paper; option to have abstracts
       reviewed by our Research Abstract Review committee before submission
   •   internal peer-review of full papers (particularly encouraged for the highest quality
       submissions); similar support is available in the preparation of cover letters and in potential
       handling of reviewer’s comments and appeals
   •   access to statisticians and bioinformaticians to assist in all aspects of study design and in the
       publication of results
   •   our Institute communications team ensuring that any new publications and newsworthy items
       relating to our research are publicised via social media (e.g. Twitter, Facebook)
   •   line managers tracking the quality of outputs annually through the P&DR process and provide
       advice on how yet unattained aims regarding high-quality outputs could be achieved
   •   representation on the MVLS Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, which ensures
       that policy decisions regarding outputs are communicated to all staff within the unit
Supported by these measures, our research has resulted in high-quality and highly-cited outputs
over the past review period:
   •   publications in major general science journals (e.g. Science, Nature, Nature
       Communications, PNAS, PLoS Biology, eLife) make up >1/3 of our submitted REF outputs
   •   our >1600 outputs have received on average 16.25 citations per output (excluding self
       citations) and 10% (including reviews) are in the top 5% cited papers worldwide based on
       Field Weighted Citation Impact (FWCI) scores
   •   our overall FWCI values are above the Russell Group average in 8 out of 9 applicable subject
       areas

Promotion. P&DR is used to ensure that all staff are fully aware of the promotions policy and that
they are mentored and supported towards producing competitive applications. The need to put
stronger emphasis on promotion mentoring was recognised by the Athena Swan Self-Assessment-
Team (SAT, Section 2.4), initially to address gender inequalities, but ultimately to benefit all staff.
Within the current REF period we have promoted 9 staff to Professor (6F:3M), 8 to Reader (4F:4M)
and 11 to Grade 9 roles (e.g. Senior Lecturer; 3F:8M); with an overall success rate for promotion
applications of 85% (F:83%, M:87%).




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Early Career Researchers (ECRs). The high rate of early career recruitment necessitates a strong
emphasis on providing career development opportunities. All new earlier career academic staff
participate in UofG’s Early Career Development Programme which includes the provision of training
and support in research leadership. The scheme involves pairing ECRs with senior mentors matched
to the ECR’s needs and preferences. Some ECRs (e.g. Lembo, Elmer, Lamberton) have also won
places on the prestigious Scottish Crucible programme. The support structures in place have
contributed to many ECRs securing competitive research awards e.g. ERC Starting Grants to Killen,
Lamberton, Viana (total >£3.3M).

Training and advice on generating impact. In REF2014, 3/4 of our impact cases were judged to
be world-leading (4*). Following on from this success, an Impact Champion (IC; Zadoks, succeeded
by Biek) was appointed. The IC works with the College’s Impact Strategy Working Group and
Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee to support the identification, generation, evidencing
and publicising of impact and to advise staff members on these issues.

Staff are further encouraged and supported in the development of impact through:
   •   University-run KE and impact events for staff (e.g. One Health engagement days with non-
       academic partners, Impact Evaluation Workshop led by external expert, opportunity audits)
   •   UofG offering guidance and resources on collecting research impact evidence and providing
       advice and a centrally managed KE and impact repository
   •   our STEM ambassadors and the INSPIRE Research Ambassador Network (a UK-wide
       initiative designed to engage veterinary undergraduates with research)
   •   Incentivising impact-generating activities through internal KE flexible funding (14 staff have
       been awarded a total of £128.5K)

2.3.Postgraduate research students (PGRs)
We have increased our number of doctoral degree students from 79.2 (2013/14) to 86.0 (2019/20)
and of doctoral awards per annum from 17.8 to 30.6. Per year, this corresponds to an average
supervisory load of 1.67 students and of 0.47 degrees awarded per staff FTE.

PGR funding. We have been particularly successful in generating increased opportunities for
international postgraduate students, including:
   •   Bill and Melinda Gates - Enhancing the Health and Productivity of Livestock (2 awards)
   •   BBSRC-DFID - ‘Zoonoses and Emerging Livestock Systems’ associated studentship
       programme (3 programme awards)
   •   EC - European ITN Joint Doctorate programme in Molecular Animal Nutrition
   •   a joint PhD programme in One Health created by the Universities of Glasgow and Edinburgh
       in 2019 (4 awards) and the Lord Kelvin Adam Smith studentship scheme (6 awards), both of
       which are open to international students
   •   Commonwealth PhD scholarships (3 awards)
Due to these initiatives, the number of international doctoral students proportioned to UoA6 has
nearly doubled from 25.3 (2013/14) to 47.5 (2019/20).

Additional studentships are provided through participation in Doctoral Training Programs (DTPs, e.g.
MRC – Precision Medicine; NERC – IAPETUS, WT – Integrative Infection Biology). However,
funding remains challenging at a national level particularly in veterinary research, so we have
recognised the need to identify new alternative sources of PGR support. Our strategy has been to
develop strong links with a diverse base of non-academic partners (NGOs, innovation centres,
charities, and industry) that facilitate sharing of studentships costs (usually 50:50). This has led to
>10 co-funded studentships over the past review period. We have further exploited our
interdisciplinary reach that enables us to work across boundaries in new ways (e.g. successful

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
applications for NERC and BBSRC CASE studentships). Finally, we have been successful in
securing PhD positions funded internally by UofG, including scholarships at the CVR (MRC-funded
and Dost-Newton), the Vet Fund (8 awarded since 2014) and internal College-funded studentships.

This broad funding strategy is working: our high number of PGR students per staff FTE (1.67) puts
us third overall in the UK (HESA data, Veterinary Sciences) since REF2014.

PGR recruitment. Our PGR recruitment strategy is predicated on:
   •   Broad advertising and close liaison with MVLS Graduate School to attract high quality
       applicants from diverse backgrounds, including protected characteristics
   •   The establishment of five high-quality Masters programmes (~80 PGT students per year) that
       act as a ‘feeder’ for our PhD programme
   •   Actively encouraging staff to engage with undergraduate students in research studies,
       including intercalated programmes, honours and PGT students, to engage not only the best
       students but also attracting more veterinary students into research, and onto clinical
       academic pathways

PGR training, supervision and completion. Once PGR students are in post, thorough support and
quality assurance mechanisms are put in place, including:
   •   A comprehensive one-week induction programme, including a two-day retreat at our field
       station at Loch Lomond
   •   A minimum of two supervisors per student to ensure breadth and continuity in supervision
       throughout the project. All supervisors have to undergo regular training by attending PGR
       supervisor workshops organised by the College
   •   Appointing two PGR assessors to each student, who are not part of the supervisor team and
       who oversee the induction process and progress through annual progress meetings. This
       enables early identification of issues affecting a student’s progress, and ensuring appropriate
       training is provided in a timely manner
   •   Sound administrative support structures provided by the College’s Graduate School and local
       PGR convenors, including a dedicated online system for tracking student progress and
       assessor reviews
   •   Mechanisms for gathering PGR feedback by working closely with PGR student
       representatives and PGR representation on our Athena Swan SAT
   •   Pastoral support to PGR students that link into the Student Representative Council and other
       support agencies across the University
   •   Organising library support/training, writing support and research integrity workshops. PGR
       students also have access to a wide range of technical training courses through our Masters
       programmes (e.g. statistics, mathematical modelling, bioinformatics, data science)
   •   Student-led organisation of social events and provision of a network for academic support
       (including writing groups and retreats)
   •   Weekly seminars, where each student gives a research talk/ project update at least once a
       year. In addition to receiving important academic feedback, this allows the students to
       develop and practice their presentation skills
   •   Travel scholarships provided by UofG, allowing PGR students to attend and present data at
       national/international conferences (e.g. CVR travel awards)
These structures and mechanisms are highly effective: our four-year (pro-rata) completion rate for
PhD students has remained consistently high (>95%) over the past review period.
The COVID19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown has created specific problems for our PGR
students. Where the lockdown or personal circumstances caused a significant delay in studies, we

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enabled affected students to apply for a fully funded extension to their studies. Since the scheme
was implemented, four students have secured funded extensions with a further twelve receiving
additional time ranging from 3-6 months.

2.4.Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Consistent with the UofG’s policies on improving Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I), all within
UoA6 are firmly committed to this goal, and hold Silver Athena Swan Accreditation.
More broadly, there are common initiatives and actions in place across UoA6 aimed at ensuring that
strategies for improving ED&I benefit all staff. This includes subgroups focusing on particular actions
ranging from staff consultation, promotions, induction, workload, mentoring, policies, information and
training, sharing best practice, wellbeing at work, to culture and communications. Events to promote
equality and diversity within our research community include networking lunches and coffee
mornings, dealing with harassment at work, resilience and mental health training and seminars,
female researchers network, LGBT days, and equality and diversity training (all new and existing
staff need to complete this, including unconscious bias training). Guidelines and activities aimed at
furthering equality and diversity have been established: committee memberships are rotated and
take account of gender balance, timings of social gatherings are planned so that they are inclusive
of those with caring responsibilities; meetings are limited to 90 minutes and scheduled during core
hours, and the provision of social space is prioritised at all sites across the campus. A community
garden has been set up and enthusiastically staffed by volunteers at the University Farm at Cochno
to provide a family-friendly environment to meet and interact.
Some key examples of recent actions include:
   •   Monitoring progress through annual collection of baseline data and supporting evidence from
       staff (questionnaires and focus group meetings)
   •   Annual collection of data on post-graduate applications, retention, and the experience and
       views of our post-graduate community
   •   Promoting key career transition points, appointments and promotions: embedding promotion
       mentoring into P&DR process; annual workshops on promotion, recognition and reward; job
       descriptions using language that is gender sensitive; supporting flexible working; fair and
       transparent allocation of workload across all domains and genders (workload modelling)
   •   Celebrating and raising awareness about LGBT scientists by establishing an annual LGBT
       in STEMM day (held since 2018, money raised for local LGBT charities)
   •   Increase representation by inviting staff from minority groups (LGBT, BME & disabilities,
       including hidden disabilities) and promote diverse role models in science

Recent examples of success for UoA6 arising from action plans include:
   •   6 out of 9 promotions to professor since 2014 have been female
   •   At the professorial level, 40% of staff are currently female, exceeding UK average (23%,
       HESA 2017/18 for Veterinary Sciences) and gender ratios across all grades are approaching
       50:50
   •   Our ability to attract and retain top female scientists is illustrated by UoA6 female researchers
       consistently outperforming male researchers with regards to annual research income
To assess outcomes, staff surveys are conducted about every two years. Using the latest BAHCM
survey as an example (response rate >90%), this reveals significant progress with respect to equality
and diversity outcomes:
   •   91% of females and 94% of males agreed that “The Institute is a great place to work/ I enjoy
       working in the Institute”
   •   93% of females and 94% of males agreed that “The atmosphere in the Institute is inclusive
       for both women and men”

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   98% of women and 98% of men answered yes to “Do you feel you have been treated fairly
       regardless of your gender in respect to day-to-day treatment at work?”
All staff involved in REF processes (including output review and selection) within the UoA undertook
mandatory training including ED&I principles, unconscious bias, and sensitive data handling. In
accordance with the University’s Code of Practice, outputs were selected and allocated to authors
to maximise the UoA’s GPA. An interim equality impact assessment of our methodology indicated
no significant bias against any protected characteristic.

 3.Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1.Income
Funding portfolio. Our annual research income has grown by ~26%, from £7.27M (2013/14) to an
average of £9.11M (2014/15 - 2019/20). Over the REF period, UoA6 has secured >£64M in external
research funding as a proportioned part of a portfolio of >£100M of awards. Over 40% of our funding
was provided by UK research councils, for which annual income has increased by >40% (from £2.6M
to £3.8M pa). However, our funding base is broad, reflecting our reach into other research disciplines
and strong links to UK government, international partners, and funders. Successful applications from
the EU have increased more than two-fold from £0.72M to £1.69M pa and similarly UK Government
awards have increased by 70% from £0.77M to £1.34M pa. Average annual income from Overseas
sources has doubled since 2013/14 and now provides 7% of all income. Income from UK Charities
is steady, averaging £1.57M pa.

Across the Unit, 100% of submitted staff have held research grant funding over the review period.
Annual research income per FTE has increased from £118K in 2013/14 to an average of £142K pa
in the years since then, which would place us 3rd in the Russell Group (HESA cost centre 109,
Veterinary Sciences).

Looking at our new grant awards (since REF2014), our top 10 funders are:
BBSRC: £13.07M; MRC: £7.22M; WT: £7.47M; EC: £5.96M; ERC: £3.34M; NERC: £4.49M; Scottish
Government: £3.70M; Leverhulme Trust: £2.08M; Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation: £1.52M;
DEFRA: £1.47M.

Examples of notable awards >£1M include (*indicates new staff/fellows):
   •   Social, economic and environmental drivers of zoonoses in Tanzania (SEEDZ). Cleaveland,
       Matthews. BBSRC, £2.26M
   •   Counting the cost of living: mitochondrial efficiency, environmental conditions, and
       performance in the wild (MitoWild). Metcalfe. ERC, £2.15M
   •   Supporting the National Action Plan for Antimicrobial Resistance in Tanzania (SNAP-AMR).
       Matthews, Hanley*, Zadoks, Oravcova*, Lembo*. MRC, £1.77M
   •   Building Upon the Genome: using H. contortus genomic resources to develop novel
       interventions to control endemic GI parasites (BUG consortium). Devanay, Mable, Laing*,
       Matthews. BBSCR, £1.36M
   •   Novel low-cost diagnostic tools and their impact in Africa. Lamberton*. EPSRC, £1.33M
   •   The Role of Physiology in the Causes and Consequences of Fisheries-Induced Evolution
       (PHYSFISH). Killen. ERC, £1.15M
   •   Transgenerational consequences of pre-conceptional and in utero exposure to real-life
       chemical mixtures on fertility and metabolic health. Evans. NIH, £1.13M
   •   New approaches to characterise Schistosoma mansoni infections persisting despite mass
       drug administration (SCHISTO-PERSIST). Lamberton*. ERC, £1.11M



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Circadian disruption by light pollution: extent, health consequences and mitigation in
       songbirds. Dominoni*, Monaghan, Babayan*. NERC, £1.10M
   •   Modelling to Optimize Vector Elimination: Destabilising mosquito populations (MOVE).
       Viana*. ERC, £1.1M
In addition, we had notable success with specific programmes, including:
   •   BBSRC-DFID funded 'Zoonoses and Emerging Livestock Systems' – awarded 3 out of 11
       funded UK-wide (Cleaveland and others, total £3.3M)
   •   NSF-NIH-UKRI co-funded ‘Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Disease’– in 2019/20, 3 of 5
       US-UK awards went to UoA6 (Murcia, Streicker, Hopcraft*/Devaney; total £2.2M)
   •   UKRI-funded GCRF – UoA6 members secured >£6.6M in funding
   •   WT fellowships with a total value of >£8.5M (Section 2.1)
   •   ‘Strategies to Prevent Spillover’ (STOP Spillover) a five-year, $100 million project funded by
       US Agency for International Development (USAID) – UofG’s UoA6 is only UK participant,
       receiving £1.5M (from 2021)
Supporting funding acquisition. Since REF2014, we have continued to optimise the acquisition
and management of our research funding through a series of measures including:
   •   A new research management support structure for assisting with grants from conception to
       completion. Members of this team are physically embedded within our local research
       environments and support new applications (including organisation of internal review),
       manage existing grants, and prepare lists of funding opportunities for staff on a fortnightly
       basis
   •   Research Committees embedded within BAHCM (Researcher Support and Development
       Fund) and SVM (Vet Fund) award pump-priming funds and contribute to PhD studentships
       in order to catalyse larger grant applications, (particularly if interdisciplinary or ECR-led)
   •   The University provides training courses on writing grant applications and research
       leadership for ECRs and PIs

3.2.Infrastructure and facilities
New investments. We have made significant investments in infrastructure since REF2014 that have
enabled us to expand our research base, provide access to novel resources and collaborations
internally and externally, and to generate new funding and impact. Further details are provided in
Section 1, but notable examples of such investments include:
   •   A strategic initiative in developing bacteriology, including a new £500K investment in
       laboratory infrastructure (OHRBID lab) along with five new staff positions, resulting in major
       funding success and award recognition (Section 1.3)
   •   A new £5M investment in the Scottish Centre for Macromolecular Imaging, new insectaries
       (£545K funded by MRC), and a new bioinformatic hub (all within the CVR) that supports
       collaborative research with CVR staff members on viral pathogens including morbilliviruses -
       Cleaveland/Lembo/Auty/Willet (e.g. Viana 2015, PNAS), zoonotic viruses – Streicker (e.g.
       Babayan 2018, Science; Mollentze 2020, PNAS) and arboviruses – Biek (e.g. Pascall 2020,
       PLOS Biol)
   •   SVM’s purpose built £15M Small Animal Hospital provides excellent opportunities to evaluate
       new approaches in companion animal health. Enabled by this, the newly appointed chair for
       orthopaedic surgery (Corr) has been collaborating cross-College (SoE, MCSB) on a ground-
       breaking method for bone-regeneration (Cheng 2019, Adv Sci) which received much media
       interest and has paved the way for novel therapies in human land mine victims (led by SoE,
       £2.8M charity funding)



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Refurbishments of eight temperature-controlled aquarium rooms (with both seawater and
       freshwater supply) and new animal procedures room to support four new staff appointments
       and to strengthen research in fish biology and physiology, an area in which we secured
       awards totalling >£8M (Section 1.3)
   •   Lab and insectaries refurbishment plus technician appointment, supporting three new staff
       appointments, to expand our research in vector-borne and parasitic diseases, associated
       with substantial awards/fellowships (total close to £5M, Section 1.3) and high profile outputs
       (e.g. Howick 2019, Science; Alam 2019, Science)
   •   A new space for a mathematical biology and modelling hub (accommodating Reeve,
       Matthews, Johnson and their groups)
   •   Investment of £5.3M into The Mary Stewart Building, a new social and teaching space on the
       Garscube estate, where SVM, CVR, and parts of BAHCM are based, encouraging research
       and teaching interactions across unit boundaries
   •   A £113M Advanced Research Centre part of UofG’s ambitious £1Bn campus redevelopment
       plan, to be completed in 2021. ‘International Development’ (including One Health) will be one
       of five research themes to be hosted at this interdisciplinary centre and several UoA6 PIs
       and their groups will be based there
Existing facilities and infrastructure. We continue to benefit from access to first class research
facilities and services including
   •   Our award-winning field station (Scottish Centre for Ecology and the Natural Environment –
       SCENE) on the shores of Loch Lomond that supports research in fish biology, limnology, and
       terrestrial ecology. Consisting of state-of-the-art teaching and research labs completed in
       2014, SCENE also facilitates critical links to external partners such as Loch Lomond National
       Park, The Loughs Agency and NatureScot, to address applied issues (e.g. conservation and
       management of marine and freshwater fish stocks). The partnerships and the exceptional
       research facilities available at SCENE have resulted in additional income, including a new
       EU-funded award (SeaMonitor, £390k, Adams), and new awards to Metcalfe, Killen, Elmer
       (NERC, ERC, total >£7).
   •   UofG’s Cochno Farm and Research Centre, which operates as a commercial farm and
       supports a range of teaching and research activities. Appointment of a research farm
       manager has facilitated wider interaction and use of the facilities (e.g. NERC - stress and
       light pollution, £1.10M; NIH – sewage exposure, £1.13M).
   •   A Bioelectronics facility embedded in the College to create bespoke electronic hardware and
       supporting software for research. This has been instrumental in finding new and innovative
       technical solutions e.g. mosquito electrocuting trap to provide safe sampling of human biting
       activity (UofG KE award to Ferguson’s team, patent pending) and automated systems for
       tracking fish movement in the wild (supporting work by Adams, Killen, Metcalfe, Parsons).
   •   Access to state-of-the-art high-throughput sequencing, metabolomics, proteomics and
       transcriptomics through GP. This has facilitated new research breakthroughs (Section 1.3)
       and has enabled UoA6 researchers to be at the forefront of using whole genome data for
       pathogen surveillance. Facilitated by a WT-funded pump prime funding scheme (ISSF)
       administered by GP, pathogen genomics has been an important platform for UofG
       researchers, especially ECRs establishing themselves as coming leaders in the field:
       Hampson’s group used an ISSF award to develop a novel ‘lab-in-a-suitcase’ approach for
       genomic surveillance of rabies virus in LMIC and to deliver in-country workshops (which
       provided an opportunity to pivot to SARS-Cov-2 sequencing with a recent MRC award,
       £601k); Forde secured a BBSRC Future Leader Fellowship with a focus on bacterial
       genomics; Llewellyn acquired internal KE and IAA funding to validate a field-based test kit
       for pathogen detection from environmental DNA using a metagenomic approach; Mable is
       extending genomic tools to the control of bacterial pathogens in crops as part of a broader
       consortium (BBSRC, £2M).


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Support from UofGs dedicated Communications & Public Affairs team that helps to promote
       our research (e.g. One Health is featured as one of six UofG’s research ‘beacons’), and
       assists with all forms of media relations.

  4.Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

A key feature of our research strategy, and thus our approach to One Health, is to establish ‘research
platforms’ (comprising networks of closely interwoven relationships with stakeholders outwith the
university) and an evidence-base (founded on secure partnerships), which we use to generate a
productive track record, and then expand the disciplinary scope of the platform. Often this expansion
is to different scales e.g. ‘down’ to more molecular understanding, or ‘up’ to considering the
economics or qualitative social science surrounding a research question. This has proven a
successful model, most demonstrable with our work in Africa (see below), early work in Latin America
(Streicker - control of vampire bat rabies, Llewellyn/Ferguson – vector-borne disease control) and
South East Asia (Hampson – control of canine rabies), but evident also in our conservation work in
both marine (Bailey - EU legislation defining a lower limit to trawl fisheries) and terrestrial
environments (Hopcraft - fencing policies for dryland ecosystems), and in parasitology (Devaney –
control of helminths in livestock). This strategy is underpinned by a new Chair in Environmental and
One Health Economics (Hanley), the appointment of a strong cohort of interdisciplinary researchers
(see 2.1), and a process of continual outreach between population and community-level researchers,
UofG social scientists (SSPS), basic scientists within the Unit (virology; CVR), and affiliated centres
(e.g. molecular parasitology; WCIP) and, for example, non-communicable disease researchers
outside the Unit (IHW).

Partnerships in Africa. Specific attention is drawn to research platforms in Tanzania – where we
have a close working relationship with the Nelson Mandela African Institute of Science and
Technology (research and training supported by BBSRC, BMGF, a Leverhulme Africa Award, a joint
MSc programme that is philanthropically funded), with Tanzanian conservation bodies (TAWIRI,
TANAPA, TAWA), with Ifakara Health Institute (research and training supported by MRC and BMGF
funding), and newer initiatives in Uganda and Burkina Faso (ERC grants to Lamberton, Viana).
Links with this area, and with West Africa, are facilitated through our participation in major initiatives
like the WT funded DELTAS award Afrique-One ASPIRE and TRYPANOGEN and their research
and capacity strengthening activities. All of this activity underwrites much staff movement, with visits
and exchanges now being routine. A major academic collaborator in our work in Africa is the Paul
G. Allen School for Global Animal Health, at Washington State University (USA). Our research and
capacity-strengthening activities in conservation and ecosystem management in Tanzania receive
support from the Tudor Family Foundation, Zurich Zoo, and the Karimjee Jivanjee Foundation.

Members of our unit have founded and are major contributors to the Boyd Orr Centre for Population
and Ecosystem Health. The Boyd Orr Centre coordinates interdisciplinary research particularly in
One Health, exploiting our strengths in infectious diseases and mathematical modelling, and linking
it with social science, pure mathematics, and developing impact. This linking and development has
been supported by successive GCRF-IAA and translational awards (total £538k to Reeve,
Cleaveland, Lembo, and others), which has allowed us to strategically support projects that were
close to delivering impact. A key example is our One Health work in Tanzania, where this has led to
impact at the government policy level (ICS: “From grassroots to policy: raising awareness and
improving capacity to control livestock diseases of poverty in East Africa”) and to high-level
recognition (BBSRC’s Innovators of the Year Award in 2017).

UK research partners. We maintain research collaborations across a large network of UK research
institutions including many non-academic partners. Two notable examples of strategic importance
for our work on animal health are:
   •   The Pirbright Institute: long-term collaborations are maintained through shared grants,
       research students, and staff appointments (Reeve). Our long-standing joint work on FMDV
       is a prime example – in recent work, Cleaveland and Lembo helped in the evaluation of a
       new field-ready PCR test developed at Pirbright (Howson 2018, Transb Emerg Dis) that

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       would enable targeted, serotype-specific vaccination as a feasible FMDV control strategy
       (Bryers-Casey 2018, Nature Ecol Evol).
   •   Moredun Research Institute: range of joint projects and studentships, most notably new work
       on parasitic nematodes (Britton, Devaney; WT Collaborative award, £1M), bovine mastitis
       (Eckersall, Zadoks; Innovate UK, £234k) and tick-borne pathogens (Biek, Gilbert; Scottish
       Government/EPIC funding, BBSRC studentship). Zadoks (left 2019) was a joint
       appointment.
Other important partners in terms of sustained interaction and joints projects over the past review
period include the James Hutton Institute, Animal and Plant Health Agency, NatureScot, NERC
Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, and the Marine Alliance for Science and Technology for Scotland
(MASTS).
Influencing policy. Members of our unit are interacting with policy makers across all levels, from
global organisations to local governments (Also see ‘Partnerships in Africa’ above):
   •   Hampson and Cleaveland have long-standing connections to the WHO, Food and
       Agriculture Organisation, and OIE, in relation to their work on zoonotic disease control,
       particularly canine rabies. In 2017, Hampson was commissioned by the WHO to conduct a
       quantitative assessment of the benefits and costs of different rabies treatment options that
       led to a revision of WHO policy on rabies post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). Her work also
       resulted in Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, to add rabies PEP to their 2021-2025 investment
       strategy, which provides access across 46 developing countries (see ICS: “Driving change
       and investment to international policy on rabies post-exposure prophylaxis”).
   •   Cleaveland is a member of WHO’s International Commission for the Certification of
       Dracunculiasis Eradication (chairs working group on animal certification) and of the UKRI
       advisory group on Zoonoses and One Health
   •   Ferguson co-chairs the WHO's Vector Control Advisory Group, which advises WHO on new
       tools, technologies and approaches for the control of vectors of disease
   •   Hopcraft convenes the annual international stakeholder meeting at the iconic Serengeti
       National Park
   •   Current director of EPIC, Mellor, together with other EPIC members (Matthews, Gilbert,
       Auty), provides strategic advice to Scottish Government on policy decisions aimed at
       managing and controlling animal diseases. Mellor’s position is split between UofG and
       Health Protection Scotland, where he provides expertise on zoonotic disease prevention and
       control
   •   Haydon and Metcalfe are members of the Scientific Advisory Committee for NatureScot
       (formerly Scottish Natural Heritage), which advises the Scottish Government on the
       management and protection of the natural environment
   •   Reeve and Matthews lead the ‘Rapid Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic’ (RAMP)
       initiative as part of the Scottish COVID-19 Response Consortium
   •   Reeve serves as advisor on predicted seasonal influenza vaccine efficacy to WHO
       Consultation on the Composition of Influenza Virus Vaccines
   •   Shiels serves as expert consultant on the EC-funded DisConTools advisory group on animal
       diseases
   •   McKeegan is an appointed member of the UK Government expert committee on Animal
       Welfare
We have achieved international recognition for high-quality outputs with impact leading to policy
change, including:
   •   EU legislation changes for a new lower limit on deep-sea trawling (Bailey, ICS: “Development
       of EU legislation that protects vulnerable deep-sea species and ecosystems by defining a
       lower limit to trawl fisheries”)

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Research by McKeegan led the EFSA to approve low atmospheric pressure stunning as a
       new method to use for poultry slaughter in the EU, and to rank it as the stunning technology
       with the lowest welfare hazard
   •   changes to US Jockey Club / Fédération Equestre Internationale rules resulting in worldwide
       reductions in injury risk and consequent improvements in equine welfare for race and
       endurance horses (Parkin, ICS: “Raising the standard of equine welfare to reduce injuries
       across race and endurance sports worldwide”)
   •   Willet and Hosie’s discovery of endogenous retroviruses in widely used feline cell lines
       implied the potential presence of fully replication competent viruses in any commercial
       product derived from these cell lines. Collaboration with industry partners (Merial co-funded
       award), facilitated by Innovate UK and Defra funding, enabled development of a
       biotechnological solution. This has resulted in new EU legislation and allowed commercial
       partners to produce safer and more reliable pet vaccines and diagnostic tests
   •   changes to management plans for internationally endangered freshwater mussels across
       multiple UK stakeholders (NatureScot, SEPA, energy companies; Adams)
Engagement with Industry and Commercial Partners. Members of our unit are working closely
with industrial partners in animal health and production, with partners contribution close to £700k to
our research income. Examples include:
   •   consultancy and advisory roles (e.g. McKeegan, Bain - poultry production/welfare, Reeve -
       FMDV vaccination with MSD/Merck Animal Health, AgResults); secondments within
       commercial companies (e.g. Jonsson with Harbro Ltd, rumen health)
   •   joining up with industry to generate research and training networks (Eckersall leading
       European ITN in Molecular Animal Nutrition MANNA)
   •   leveraging joint grant funding (e.g. Willet/Hosie with Merial on Defra-funded project on
       animal vaccine safety)
   •   co-developing new products (e.g. Eckersall, Llewellyn with aquaculture industry companies
       BioMar Ltd and Marine Harvest (Scotland) Ltd on fish parasite/disease diagnostics; Evans,
       Hastie with Ferring Controlled Therapeutics on drug delivery systems, McKeegan with
       LiveTec on humane slaughter technology)

Outreach and public engagement. Staff and students are actively encouraged to get involved in
outreach and public engagement activates to maximise the impact of their work. Such activities are
recognised and rewarded through the P&DR process and have included:
   •   Social media – active Twitter, Facebook, Instagram accounts and contribution to online
       platforms (e.g. Reddit Ask a Scientist, Storify.com, VetGems, MVLS ScienceDen)
   •   Podcasts – two highly successful podcast formats and associated online blogs (Naturally
       speaking, >70 episodes; Contagious Thinking, >20 episodes)
   •   Public science events – exhibits and activities at Glasgow Science Festival, Pint of Science,
       Royal Highland Show, MRC Festival of Science

Media coverage. Our work is regularly covered by the general media. Notable recent examples
include:
   •   Hopcraft contributing to Channel 5 series 'The Great African Migration' with Ben Fogle
   •   Biek/Gilbert/Mellor being interviewed for two 30min features on Lyme disease in the UK
       (BBC ALBA, BBC Scotland)
   •   Evans’ research into effect of music genres on stress levels of kennelled dogs
       (https://youtu.be/kGKK3Bqtioo)



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Corr’s work on bone healing, which was covered extensively in the media (incl. extended
       BBC news piece), after saving the leg of Eva the dog in the first clinical test
   •   Streicker being interviewed by BBC’s Good Morning Scotland on bats as zoonotic reservoirs
Funding panels. Members of our unit are shaping decisions about science funding and strategy
through membership on panels of major funders e.g. UKRI-FLF (Mable chairs panel), BBSRC
(Britton, Cleaveland, Devaney, Ferguson, Matthews, McKeegan, Selman), NERC (Mable,
Matthiopoulos), MRC (Haydon), WT (Cleaveland, Hampson, Selman), Leverhulme (Ranford-
Cartwright), Royal Society (Cleaveland, Ranford-Cartwright), EC/ERC (Monaghan, Ranford-
Cartwright).

Peer-review and publishing. We contribute as editors or editorial board members across leading
scientific journals in our field e.g. Animal Conservation (Hanley), Biology Letters (Matthiopoulos),
BMC Veterinary Research (Cleaveland), British Poultry Science (McKeegan), EcoHealth
(Streicker), Ecology of Freshwater Fish (Adams), Epidemics (Haydon, Matthews), Equine
Veterinary Journal (Murcia), Evolutionary Biology (Parsons), Experimental Gerontology (Selman),
Heredity (Mable), Journal of Animal Ecology (Dominoni), International Journal for Parasitology
(Britton), Methods in Ecology & Evolution (Matthiopoulos), Molecular Ecology (Biek), Molecular
and Biochemical Parasitology (A Page), Parasitology (Ranford-Cartwright), Parasites & Vectors
(Ferguson, Lamberton), PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases (Lamberton, Ranford-Cartwright,
Streicker), PLOS Pathogens (Lamberton), Proceedings Royal Society London B (Llewellyn),
Resource and Energy Economics (Hanley).

Conference organisation. We hosted the 18th ‘Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Disease’
conference in 2018 (first time outside of US), which was attended by >350 delegates (Streicker,
Hampson, Biek). We also hosted the 2020 conference of The Association for Veterinary Teaching
and Research Work as a virtual event (Cameron). We regularly host shorter workshops and
international symposia on specific topics e.g. ‘bovine tuberculosis’ (2017), ‘FMDV in East Africa’
(2019) or organise symposia at major scientific conferences.

Recognition and awards. There has been a great deal of recognition of the achievements of both
individuals and teams, with prestigious awards including:
   •   Appointment as Fellow of the Royal Society, the Academy of Medical Sciences, US National
       Academy of Medicine, Royal Society Leeuwenhoek medal, the RSTMH George Macdonald
       medal and the Zoological Society of London Frink medal (Cleaveland)
   •   Guardian University award 2016 Best International Project; Fellow of the Royal Society
       Edinburgh (Hampson)
   •   BBSRC Innovator of Year award 2017 (International Impact) (led by Cleaveland)
   •   joint first prize in the 2018 Ebbe Nielsen Challenge, an annual innovation competition run by
       the Global Biodiversity Informatics Facility (R Page)
   •   Humane Slaughter Award 2019 from the Humane Slaughter Association (McKeegan)
   •   Zoological Society of London Science medal (Ferguson, Hampson)
   •   Royal Society of Edinburgh Patrick Neill Medal (Lembo)
   •   Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour and Zoological Society of London Frink medal
       (Monaghan)
   •   President’s medal from Society for Experimental Biology (Killen)
   •   Fisheries Society of the British Isles Science medal (Elmer, Killen) and Beverton medal
       (Metcalfe)
   •   Philip Leverhulme Prize, National Geographic Emerging Explorer, and Wellcome-Beit Prize
       (Streicker)


                                                                                           Page 20
