Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: NEWCASTLE UNIVERSITY

 Unit of Assessment: GEOGRAPHY

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview: Since REF2014, Geography at Newcastle University (NU) has advanced as a world-
 leading centre of geographical research, impact, and capacity-building through: major
 investments in staff (additional 29FTE: 85% early-career, 50% female); increased female
 research leadership (7 women Professors cf. 4 REF2014); 36 promotions based on outstanding
 research profiles; extensive publication of high quality research (1054 total outputs); increased
 external grant income (£6.22M representing a 52% increase cf. REF2014); major success in
 Global Challenges Research Funding (GCRF) including establishment of the £17.5M UKRI
 GCRF Living Deltas Hub; widespread and varied research engagement and impact with
 diverse stakeholders; and £63M NU investment in our School research facilities, laboratories
 and building infrastructure.

 Geography at Newcastle celebrated its 90 th anniversary in 2018, and is the largest Unit within the
 School of Geography, Politics and Sociology (GPS). GPS sits within the Faculty of Humanities
 and Social Sciences (HASS), the largest of NU’s three faculties. Research in Geography is
 organised around four established clusters – Physical Geography, Geographies of Social Change,
 Economic Geographies, and Power, Space and Politics – plus the internationally-renowned
 Centre for Urban and Regional Development Studies (CURDS, 40 th anniversary 2017). Since
 2014, Geography has also received significant internal research investment (£4.03M) through NU
 interdisciplinary research initiatives, including: the Spatial Analytics and Modelling (SAM) Lab
 (£2M, NU Research Investment Fund); NU Research Excellence Academy (REA, 5FTE PDRFs, 2
 yrs., £530k); NU Academic Track (NUAcT) Research Fellowship Scheme (three 5-year tenure-
 track fellows, £500k each with PhD and training attached); and has co-led the establishment of
 four interdisciplinary NU Centres of Research Excellence (in Data, Energy, Cities, Climate &
 Environmental Resilience). Underpinning these achievements, NU Geography has prioritised a
 collegial, supportive, and inclusive research culture that celebrates colleagues’ diverse skills,
 interests, funding strategies and impact practices.

 Research agenda: to advance world-leading geographical research and scholarship,
 through productive mutual engagement with diverse stakeholders, to create new
 knowledge that has societal benefits. This sits at the heart of the GPS School Research
 Strategy, and is closely aligned with NU’s renewed Vision and Strategy (2019) ‘to nurture
 excellent research that expands fundamental knowledge and addresses societal and global
 needs’.

 In REF2014 our research objectives were to: (1) advance original research that is conceptually
 fresh, empirically rigorous and world-leading; (2) advance research that has significant impact and
 reach; (3) increase external grant income; (4) extend our international collaborative networks; and
 (5) make strategic staff appointments, including ECRs, in priority research areas. Additional
 priorities in the School’s successful Athena SWAN Bronze submission (2017), led by Geography,
 were to: (6) develop an inclusive research environment; and (7) enable all colleagues and
 students to realise their full research potential free from bias or discrimination. In fulfilment of
 these objectives, achievements include:

 (1) Substantial increase in research capacity through 107% growth in Unit size (56.3FTE
     41% female cf. 27.2FTE 40% female REF2014) consequent from our success in REF2014 as
     one of the strongest performing Units in UK Geography and NU. Strategic investment in
     22 new open-ended posts (plus 7 replacement posts) has enabled a step-change in research
     capacity, and furthered our development of an ambitious, innovative, and sustainable
     research programme going into the next REF period and beyond.
 (2) Extensive publication of high quality research (673 papers in international journals, 35
     monographs, 176 chapters in edited collections). Our submitted outputs portfolio (n=128)

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      evidences gender-inclusive research teams (65% female authored); and extensive research
      collaboration in the UK (53%), across disciplines (48% including: geology, engineering,
      oceanography, geochemistry, ecology, mathematics, computing, economics, anthropology,
      archaeology, management, planning, politics, international relations, education), and
      internationally (35%).
 (3) Widespread engagement and impact via existing and new research partnerships,
      evidenced through 5 Impact Case Studies and wider collaboration with over 270
      stakeholders, spanning: international NGOs, national governments, charities, environmental
      groups, civic groups, industry, labour collectives, and not-for-profits.
 (4) Success in Global Challenges Research Funding through collaboration with overseas
      academics and non-HEIs, including establishment of a UKRI GCRF interdisciplinary research
      hub Living Deltas (£17.5M, PI Large, £2.1M to Newcastle; 1 of 12 Hubs, £200M UKRI
      investment), plus 5 other GCRF projects (40% female-led).
 (5) Increased external research grant funding: £6.22M income cf. £4.1M REF2014, across
      144 total awards (by 84% of staff).
 (6) Increased total research grant expenditure from UKRI sources (£3.97M equivalent to 64%
      total spend cf. £2.4M 56% REF2014).
 (7) Nurturing Early-Career Researchers to enhance our long-term research vitality. Since 2014
      we have appointed 23 new lecturers and 13 Postdoctoral Fellows (NuACT, REA, Leverhulme,
      ESRC; 38% female).
 (8) Growth of the Graduate School with 59 PGRs average registered per annum (cf. 49.6
      REF2014) from diverse geographical and social backgrounds; a 40% increase in successful
      PhD completions (66 cf. 47 REF2014); and UKRI PhD funding through multiple DTPs (ESRC
      NINE, NERC IAPETUS 1&2, NERC One Planet).
 (9) New research-intensive Masters MRes Environmental Geoscience to recruit UG students
      across multiple disciplines into postgraduate research in physical geography (average 15
      registered p.a. 2019-).
 (10) Substantial infrastructure and resources investment to enhance our research facilities,
      including £3M Drummond laboratories refurbishment, and new accommodation in the £60M
      Henry Daysh Building refurbishment, to provide state-of-the-art facilities to meet our growth
      and evolving research needs.

 Research ecosystem: Geographical research at Newcastle is organised through four research
 clusters: Physical Geography (PhG), Geographies of Social Change (GoSC), Economic
 Geographies (EG), Power Space and Politics (PSP); and one research centre, the Centre for
 Urban and Regional Development Studies (CURDS) whose members sit primarily within the EG
 cluster. Each cluster is mixed gender and includes PGRs, PDRFs, staff and research technicians
 (PhG) at all career stages in broad communities of interest. The clusters provide intellectual
 stimulus and mutual support and have evolved since REF2014 with new staff and colleagues’
 research trajectories.
    All staff belong to a cluster, many active across several, supported by our recruitment strategy
 to develop cross-cluster global challenges themes: sustainable livelihoods, environmental
 change, resilient communities, human health, inclusive growth, social and economic justice and
 digital futures. Advancing these themes, we have won multiple GCRF projects: Living Deltas
 Interdisciplinary Research Hub to safeguard deltas and build resilient communities (GCRF-UKRI
 £2.1M Large); tackling drug-resistant infections in food systems (GCRF-AHRC £40k Hughes);
 climate change and El Niño fishing and farming systems (GCRF-AHRC Henderson £39k);
 migrant mothers and maternal health care in refugee camps (GCRF-EPSRC £16k Bagelman,
 Pain); rural community response to wildfire hazards (GCRF-AHRC £53k Johnston); monitoring
 hydro-geomorphological risk in Patagonia (GCRF-NERC £100k Russell, Perks); and social
 reproduction in conflict zones (BA International Challenges Griffiths £45k).
    NU Geographers also contribute to and benefit from cross-faculty research networks that
 respond to multidimensional research problems, shifting funding structures, and diverse research
 beneficiary needs. These include NU’s interdisciplinary Research Institutes (Population and


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health Sciences, Social Science, Humanities, Digital, Creative Arts Practice) and newly
 established Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs). Geographers provide research
 leadership in the: Centre for Data built on £100M of cross-faculty research income to transform
 methods for data-rich applications to smart cities, spatial analytics, and data visualisation; and
 Centre for Energy to catalyse new interdisciplinary thinking about energy systems across scales.
 Geographers also led the establishment of the Centre for Research on Cities (MacKinnon, Pike)
 and Centre for Climate & Environmental Resilience (Henderson).
    This research ecosystem (Figure 1) provides colleagues with the intellectual and material
 resources to advance individual and collective research; address fundamental societal, economic,
 environmental and ecological challenges; and define geographical research priorities within the
 UK and internationally.

                       Figure 1: Research Ecosystem, Newcastle Geography




 (1) PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY (PhG): is a world-leading group of scientists at the forefront of
 research on earth surface processes, environmental change, and shifting human-environment
 relationships. Work blends cutting-edge field and lab-based science, remote sensing and GIS,
 with expertise in mathematical and statistical modelling, to make fundamental advances in
 geomorphology, glaciology, environmental change and geohazards. Since REF2014 the group
 has expanded (from 9 to 15.3FTE, plus 4 technicians 3.5FTE), carrying out research in Antarctica,

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Iceland, Patagonia, Peru, Turkey, USA, Tibet, Japan, Alaska, Greenland, Australia, China, and
 Europe. Staff also play leading roles in multiple international networks (DIMA, SCAR, MOXXII,
 IODP, ICDP). Work has advanced through 5 streams:
    (a) Water science: has analysed catchment dynamics and impacts of intense rainfall-induced
 floods (NERC SINATRA consortium £1.2M Russell, Large 2013-19), advanced citizen science-
 led approaches to validate flood risk models (Large) and developed novel non-contact flow
 monitoring of peak floods using particle image velocity (PIV) (Perks). This PIV technology is now
 embedded in national environment agencies (NERC £1M Russell, Large, Perks 2016-19) and
 deployed in South America to reduce hydro-geomorphological risk (GCRF NERC £100k Russell,
 Perks 2017-19). The UKRI GCRF Living Deltas interdisciplinary research hub led by Large
 (Director) and Henderson (£17.5M, £2.1M to NU Geography, 2019-24) brings together a world-
 leading team to assess and communicate the status of ecosystem health and safeguard delta
 futures through more resilient communities and sustainable development across the Red River
 and Mekong (Vietnam), and Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna (Bangladesh, India). A crucial
 component of this work analyses the Mekong’s sediment pathway dynamics and bank stability,
 essential for maintaining delta systems undermined by sand mining and shifting cyclone activity
 (NUAcT £490k Hackney 2020-25).
    (b) Past environments: advances research on Holocene climate change, human-environment
 interactions and long-term climate evolution. A major focus has been the El Niño Southern
 Oscillation (ENSO), to develop and apply stable isotope proxies for rainfall to reconstruct ENSO-
 driven rainfall variability in NE Australia (Henderson), and fingerprinting the sedimentary
 signature of ENSO events in lake sediments in northern Peru (NERC £53k Henderson, Ross
 2017-18). New work on Arctic Holocene climate shows that ice sheet retreat during the latter half
 of the Younger Dryas triggered warming over Baffin Bay (Juggins), and has been extended to
 understand Holocene environments in Siberia and the Russian Far East, a major data gap (NERC
 £77k; Foreign & Commonwealth Office £31k, van Hardenbroek, Henderson 2018-20). Work on
 human-environment interactions has exploited innovations in sedimentary DNA and biomarkers of
 humans (Henderson, van Hardenbroek), to analyse the impacts of human-made islands
 (cránnogs) on lakes (AHRC £182k Henderson 2015-18). Work has also documented human
 colonisation responses to environmental stresses in small island communities (AHRC £205k
 Henderson, van Hardenbroek 2018-21), and used faecal sterols and wax leaf isotopes in lake
 sediments to delineate a new, earlier date of colonisation for East Polynesia (Henderson,
 Pearson). Research on long-term climate change has helped establish the climate controls and
 context for human migration out of East Africa (NERC £67k, Pearson 2013-19) and reconstructed
 East Asian monsoon history, spanning the last 0.5m years based on cores collected on IODP
 Expedition 346 (Henderson).
    (c) Glaciology: work advances international debates on ice sheet dynamics and valley glacier
 responses to climate change. Research has analysed modern ice sheet behaviour in East
 Greenland (Carr, Ross), implications of ice fracturing and iceberg generation from Greenland for
 Arctic oceanography (Dunning), and implemented portable ice radar to investigate ice sheet
 hydrology and response to climate change (Royal Society £15k Ross 2014-15). In Antarctica,
 work has identified extensive subglacial lakes and canyons, with crucial implications for ice sheet
 hydrology (Ross). Research also suggests that the West Antarctic ice sheet has been stable for
 the last 1.4 million years (Dunning), and has established the role of glacial erosion in mountain
 uplift in East Antarctica (Ross) and importance of sediment supply to erosion rates based on
 cosmogenic-nuclide chronometers (Dunning). Beyond the modern polar ice sheets, work on the
 British-Irish Ice Sheet (BIIS) collapse, as part of the BRITICECHRONO consortium, identified the
 initial trigger for ice sheet retreat as relative sea level rise over marine-anchored ice sheets
 (Callard).
    (d) Ecosystems: work on global soil biodiversity connects below-ground biodiversity changes to
 above-ground ecosystem succession within and across biomes (Cutler) and has advanced a new
 taphomic model of vegetation response to tephra transformations following volcanic eruptions
 (Carnegie Trust £10k Cutler). Our Arctic research has demonstrated how climate change has
 driven rapid ecosystem responses in West Greenland (Juggins), how catchment vegetation
 mediates productivity in Arctic lakes (van Hardenbroek), and how penguin colonies on the
 Antarctica peninsula were decimated by volcanic eruptions over the last 7000 years (Juggins,

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pearson). Extending our development of ecological monitoring tools for water quality, new work
 has established diatom-based metrics for Water Framework Directive monitoring (Juggins) and
 strong seasonality in diatoms for improved monitoring (Large).
   (e) Geomorphology and geohazards: advances global agendas on hillslope processes,
 landslides, earthquake risk and tectonic- and fluvial-induced landscape changes. Research has
 analysed the impacts of hillslope failure on road transport infrastructures and developed
 innovative solutions to forecast, detect, and warn about imminent landslides (NERC £46k; NERC
 £120k; Transport Research Laboratory £55k; Scottish Roads Research Board £85k, Dunning
 2016-19). Vital work has also analysed destructive mudflow dynamics following volcanic eruptions
 in Chile (NERC £52k Russell 2015-16). Earthquake research has modelled co-seismic landslide
 intensities to provide ensemble scenario analysis of seismic risk in vulnerable countries
 (Robinson). Ongoing work examines landscape geomorphology as a result of fault activity
 (Meriaux) and river terrace formations linked to climate change, volcanism and neotectonics
 (Maddy).
     Joint research with external organisations includes: the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust,
 Ouseburn Catchment Partnership, Newcastle City Council, UK Met Office, British Antarctic
 Survey, British Geological Survey and the Cabinet Office’s Natural Hazards Partnership.
 Innovative engagement activities have involved training sessions on flood risk management for
 chief scientists and engineers from the UK Environment Agency; training environmental scientists
 in Siberia and the Russian Far East; and large-scale earthquake simulations for governments,
 militaries, and humanitarian organisations to guide emergency response and reduce disaster risk.
 International stakeholders in the Living Deltas Hub include: the Vietnamese Center for Water
 Resources Conservation and Development, International Union for Conservation of Nature, and
 Wetlands International. PhG’s research agenda 2021-28 will explore: river delta sustainability,
 earthquake-generated landslide hazard and risk, glacial response to climate change, new
 methods for palaeoenvironmental reconstruction, and histories of methane production using lake
 sediments and novel isotope proxies.

 (2) GEOGRAPHIES OF SOCIAL CHANGE (GoSC): one of the largest and most dynamic groups
 of social geographers in the world, with strong interdisciplinary links within and beyond NU. This
 group is known for agenda-setting research on spatial and social inequalities, justice, and
 everyday life. Work examines disparities in wealth, health, violence, living conditions and life-
 chances; and analyses the many sites, scales and dimensions of disadvantage and discrimination
 that undermine the social and ethical fabric of human well-being. This work spans global North
 and South; from the intimacy of the body to the global; and examines connectivities across these
 realms. Since REF2014, this group has expanded from 10 to 22FTE, and advanced research on:
    (a) Race, ethnicity and migration: has developed novel theorisations of whiteness and anti-
 racism (Bonnett, Nayak); analysed the evolution of youth identities in relation to globalisation,
 diaspora and displacement (Blazek, Finlay, Johnston); and created new understanding of
 collective religious rituals for healing during post-traumatic adaptation amongst refugees
 (Leverhulme ECF £83k Ghaffari 2019-22). Vital EU-funded work on Islamophobia identifies
 everyday consequences of bigotry and prejudice connected to terrorist events and Brexit (£118k
 Hopkins 2016-18).
    (b) Rethinking gender and sexualities: analyses place-based variations in representations
 and lived experiences of gender and sexuality, and how private relations are fundamental to the
 expression and enactment of social and political power in public sites. Work examines the
 relationship practices of young British Pakistanis (AHRC £42k Hopkins, Pande 2016-19),
 changing family lives in different urban welfare regimes (Jarvis, Stenning) and contested spaces
 of diversity (REA PDRF £106k Mearns 2017-19). Other work has analysed shifting masculinities
 (Nayak, Hopkins, Richardson), everyday sexism and intimate violence (Pande, Pain, Nayak)
 and the spatial-political implications of gender non-conformity (Hopkins).
    (c) Spaces of youth and childhood: examines youth engagement with national identity and
 geopolitics in South America (Benwell) and Scotland (Hopkins, Richardson); education and
 aspirations among black and minority ethnic youth (Hopkins, Nayak); and youth experiences of
 belonging in post-industrial UK cities (REA PDRF £106k Finlay 2017-19). New research explores

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 playing out in neighbourhood streets (Leverhulme SRF £54k Stenning 2019-21), and children’s
 agency (Blazek).
    (d) Domestic-global spaces: unsettles scale as a hierarchical organising principle, and
 challenges assumptions about domestic spaces by examining: new forms of family, intimate
 relations and politics stretched across the globe (Johnston); birthing across borders in migrant
 refugee camps (GCRF £109k Bagelman 2020-21); family and community life in austerity
 (Stenning, Ormerod); displacement of low-income homes and households (Pain, Ormerod); and
 viable alternative modes of living, co-housing and community-building (Jarvis).
    (e) Justice, wellbeing and community: explores recession and mental health in Scotland
 (ESRC £129k Cunningham); uneven geographies of healthcare and wellbeing (Copeland,
 Jones, Johnston); geographies of loneliness (Stenning, Jarvis); and social housing disposal as
 chronic urban trauma (Pain). Work has also explored possibilities for change through: intentional
 communities and degrowth initiatives (Jarvis); citizen participation and civil society organising
 (Lin, Pugh, Jarvis); environmental justice and green activism (Powells, Jarvis).
    The group’s commitment to creating knowledge that has material benefits to the wider
 community, voluntary sector and policy sphere is evidenced through engagement and co-
 production with diverse local and international organisations including: Tyne and Wear Citizens,
 Islamic Diversity Centre, Muslim Engagement and Development, Tyneside Women’s Health,
 Northumberland Trans Equality Network, Canadian Filipino Association of Yukon, UNHRC, and
 Dadaab Refugee Training Centre Kenya. Since 2014 the cluster has also advanced influential
 participatory and arts-based methodologies: participatory action research (Blazek, Johnston,
 Pain, Pugh), participatory GIS (Lin), and community-based volunteering (Jarvis). GoSC’s
 research agenda 2021-28 advances this vital body of work, alongside new engagements with:
 urban masculinity in ‘modern’ India, geographies of youth work, geographical ethics, potential
 space and playing out in neighbourhoods and streets, and shifting care networks amongst
 refugees and asylum seekers during Covid-19 (ESRC £323k Hopkins, Benwell 2020-22).

 (3) ECONOMIC GEOGRAPHIES (EG): Since REF2014, this has become the UK’s largest
 Economic Geography research cluster. Enlarged and diversified through 6 strategic appointments
 (to 17.5FTE) it encompasses the Centre for Urban and Regional Development Studies (CURDS).
 Research challenges economic and policy orthodoxies, and explores viable possibilities for
 progressive change amongst economically marginalised people and places. Extending our long-
 standing engagement with local communities in the UK’s NE region, new work has interrogated
 socioeconomic (dis)advantage and sustainability challenges across India, Kenya, Malawi, China,
 Singapore, Brazil and South Africa. Our interdisciplinary intellectual partnerships span
 development studies, political economy, evolutionary economics, spatial analytics, critical urban
 studies and planning. NU’s distinctive brand of EG is advanced through 5 major work streams:
    (a) Governing unequal economies: interrogates how institutions differently organise and
 regulate economies, and identifies governance possibilities for socially and spatially inclusive
 development. Work has advanced new conceptual understandings of economic evolution,
 institutional adaptation and path creation (Dawley, MacKinnon, Pike), decentralised governance
 and place-based industrial policies (European Commission £44k Vallance, Kempton 2016-18).
 This includes ESRC-funded work on city economic evolution and adaptive pathways (£27k Pike
 2015-18), manufacturing renaissance in ‘old’ industrial regions (ESRC Pike £27k 2017-20;
 EPSRC £51k Pike 2015-17), and the future of declining cities in the UK (Joseph Rowntree £82k
 Coombes 2014-15; £50k MacKinnon, Pike 2016-17)). Our research has also re-imagined
 economies beyond ‘capitalism-as-usual’ through work on Chinese state governance (Lim) and
 ethical procurement in global commodity chains (ESRC £205k Hughes 2018-21).
    (b) Geographies of money and finance: has interrogated the geographical evolution of
 financial systems, structures and institutions (Coombes, Dawley, Pike, Pollard) and uneven
 geographies of financial crisis and debt in the wake of austerity (Coombes, Pollard); and
 identified socially responsible possibilities for financial innovation (Pollard, Coombes, Loomis),
 including the role of faith-based charity in protecting vulnerable migrant communities (Pollard,
 James). It also includes high-profile work on financialisation of city statecraft and urban



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure funding (EPSRC-ESRC Pike £250k) as part of the NU-led £3.5M iBUILD Research
 Centre.
    (c) Precarious economic lives: advances new understanding of people’s everyday lives in
 economically vulnerable communities, and strategies for coping. ESRC-funded work explores
 uneven geographies of the UK housing crisis (£81k Ormerod 2018-19) and collaborative housing
 for community resilience (£27k Jarvis 2014-16). Work in labour geographies demonstrates the
 employer benefits of family-friendly working (James), feminizes ‘digital labour’ in the gig economy
 (BA £104k James 2017-18), and explores youth (un)employment and labour market agency in the
 global South (REA PDRF £53k Pettit 2019-20; James).
    (d) Sustaining economies: pioneering work on energy transitions has analysed: the
 management of affordable energy systems to tackle fuel poverty and promote energy justice
 (Affordable Warmth Solutions £240k Powells 2019-22; EPSRC £98k Powells 2016-21) as part of
 the £1.8M Centre for Energy Systems Integration (CESI); and regional development through
 renewable energy transitions (Research Council of Norway £98k Dawley, MacKinnon 2016-20).
 ESRC-funded work has demonstrated new possibilities for sustainable consumption and agri-food
 ethics in the global South (£205k Hughes 2018-20), and for tackling the global health challenge of
 antimicrobial resistance in food supply chains (ESRC £105k Hughes 2017-19; AHRC/GCRF
 £187k Hughes 2019-21). Work also identifies innovations in sustainable urban transport in the
 global South (Wood).
    (e) Analysing economies: combines established quantitative methods with cutting-edge
 spatial modelling applications and data visualization to analyse the role of individual, place-
 characteristics and demographic change in shaping unequal economic and wellbeing outcomes.
 This work is supported by the Alan Turing Institute on digitally-mediated spatial inequalities in
 smart cities (£268k Franklin 2018-21) and by the ONS on defining travel-to work areas for labour
 market analysis (£24k Coombes 2014-15). Ongoing research analyses geographical variations in
 people’s life chances (Coombes, Champion) and the profound implications of depopulation
 across cities and regions in the USA (Franklin).
    This distinctive work has been advanced through diverse engagement with varied
 stakeholders including: ILO, UN, UK Food Standards Agency, Citibank, Northern Gas Networks,
 Northern PowerGrid, Malawi Ministry of Health, Kenya Institute for Livestock Research, and UK
 Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. We also seek to advance local
 communities within our region, challenging characterisations of the NE as ‘peripheral’ and helping
 refine policy responses as part of the UK government’s ‘levelling up’ agenda. EG’s research
 agenda 2021-28 examines: post-Brexit and lockdown economies, debt and indebtedness,
 financialising local statecraft, digital labour, entrepreneurial state housing, global food supply
 networks, hydrogen energy transitions, technologies for urban social justice, and new forms of
 inclusive development in ‘left behind’ places (ESRC £563k MacKinnon, Pike, Franklin 2020-23).

 (4) POWER, SPACE, POLITICS (PSP): is a world-class group of critical geopolitical and
 international development geographers whose influential research examines the spatially uneven
 expressions, operation, and outcomes of political power, politics and the political. Enlarged
 through multiple strategic appointments to 14FTE, this research agenda is multi-scalar and spans
 multiple sites of contemporary and historical political change including: the contemporary Middle
 East, post-Soviet Europe, Latin America, Antarctica, Falkland Islands, South Africa, and North
 Africa. Extending this group’s established work on geopolitical theory and practice, military
 geographies, and peace, new research since 2014 explores: conflict and displacement, military
 occupation, civil-military relationships, healthcare in war zones, and geographies of international
 law. Advancing interactional, ethnographic, participatory, and creative arts research methods this
 work spans four key streams:
    (a) Borders, bordering and boundaries: examines the re-emergence of geographical
 boundaries that separate states, as sources of disagreement, instability and conflict, including
 critical analyses of: military occupation and the territorial politics of bordering (NUAcT £490k
 Griffiths 2019-24); how Israel’s visa restrictions are reconfiguring social reproduction in Palestine
 (BA £45k Griffiths 2019-21); and geographies of war, conflict medicine and forced displacement
 in the Middle East (Independent Social Research Foundation Fellowship £50k Jones 2019-21).

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ongoing work explores nationalism and borders in modern Central Asia (Megoran) and shifting
 oceanic geographies, maritime borders and islands in the Anthropocene (Pugh).
    (b) Militarism: NU is a leading centre for analysis of the effects of military activities on space,
 places, landscapes and people. Agenda-setting work on military geographies has analysed:
 involvement of military lawyers in planning and lethal and non-lethal US military operations in Iraq
 and Afghanistan (Jones) and geographical dynamics of university-military relations (Williams).
 ESRC-funded work has also analysed gendered military experience (£77k Cree 2018-19; £299k
 Cree 2020-22); and negotiation of military identities amongst reservist soldiers employed in
 civilian workplaces (£204k Woodward, Jenkings 2014-18).
    (c) Critical geopolitics: analyses the interface between international and intimate violence
 (Jones, Hopkins, Pain); the making of geopolitical citizens (Leverhulme Early-Career Fellowship
 £37k Benwell 2014-16) and geopolitics of renewable energy (Manzo). New work analyses the
 everyday micro-politics of young refugees and asylum seekers in public spaces (HERA £223k
 Hopkins, Benwell 2019-21); and how former European states endure in the public consciousness
 (NUAcT £490k Riding 2019-24).
    (d) Resistance, justice and peace: explores new geopolitical possibilities for resistance,
 conflict resolution, justice and peace, by analysing peacebuilding and political strategies of
 resistance (Megoran), and protest exercised by young people and survivors of violence
 (Hopkins, Pain).
   This work has been developed through diverse engagement with organisations including:
 International Committee of the Red Cross, Médicines Sans Frontières, British Army, Royal Air
 Force, Ministry of Defence, English Heritage, OSCE, World Bank, DFID, FCO, European Centre
 for Minority Issues, and War Childhood Museum Sarajevo. PSP’s research agenda 2021-28
 examines: low-wage cross-border labour in occupied Palestine, cross-border casualty evacuation
 and medical care systems in the Middle East, Anthropocene island relations, and shifting public
 understanding of UK nuclear deterrence and space monitoring facilities (AHRC £946k
 Woodward, Jenkings 2020-23).

 Impact strategy: NU Geography has a long-standing tradition of engaged research with
 benefits for the economy, society and environment, through innovative projects co-
 designed with and for beneficiary communities. This is exemplified through our development
 of the ‘Civic University’ agenda (Goddard et al. 2016) to foster ‘research with a purpose that
 benefits society’ – and now includes 56 UK universities. Extending this ambition since REF2014
 our impact activity has diversified through staff recruitment, and into wider areas of public and
 policy concern, many driven by Global Challenges. Our impact ambition is three-fold:
  (1) Co-produce robust research findings that improve evidence-based decision-making, risk-
      management and resource allocation by research partner organisations.
  (2) Use original geographical research to improve the everyday lives of vulnerable people.
  (3) Develop better research through new methodological, participatory, and dissemination
      techniques that raise public understanding and inform the impact practices of other
      researchers.
 Within this framework our 5 Impact Case Studies demonstrate research impact across all four
 research clusters and CURDS, with contributions spanning government, commercial, and
 voluntary sectors in the global North and South. These result from established work alongside
 more recent research, enabled by a varied range of funders, resources, and pathways (including:
 NERC, ESRC Knowledge Exchange, ESRC IAAs, NU Faculty Impact Fund, and NU ‘Pitch-In’
 supported by Research England’s Connecting Capability Fund). They also evidence impact
 activity across early-career, mid-career and senior staff. Beyond the ICSs, all Geography staff are
 supported to engage in this vital research activity. Our School Impact Manifesto:
   (a) Responds to urgent societal and environmental challenges. The diversity of challenges
 reflects our Unit growth since REF2014, ranging from: supporting disadvantaged and vulnerable
 communities in austerity and COVID-19 lockdown, to improving access to affordable housing, to
 developing early warning systems to predict and mitigate natural hazards, to building justice in war


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 zones, to improving commercial state and third sector responses to health challenges, to
 advancing low carbon economies.
    (b) Engages with research beneficiaries in diverse places. This includes groups locally in the
 UK NE (e.g. Jarvis’s work with Tyne and Wear Citizens to implement living wages, reduce racial
 hate crime and improve mental health; Richardson’s work with the North East Young Dads and
 Lads Project supporting vulnerable young men; and Nayak’s work with the Southwick
 Neighbourhood Youth Project (Sunderland) to promote youth community inclusion through
 austerity). It also engages organisations overseas (e.g. Griffiths’ work with Jerusalem Legal Aid
 with communities vulnerable to house demolitions; and Megoran’s collaboration with Saferworld
 on conflict prevention working with policy makers in The Hague (OSCE High Commission on
 National Minorities), Bishkek (Kyrgyz Prime Minister’s Office, KGB) and Washington DC (US State
 Department)).
     (c) Builds pathways to impact through innovative co-production methods, also shaping
 research practice beyond NU (see section 4). Important examples include Pain’s novel
 participatory research on chronic trauma, Pande’s use of animation and film to narrate young
 British Pakistanis’ relationships of love, and Perks’ collaboration with the Environment Agency to
 train technicians in non-contact monitoring of river channel flows.
     (d) Moves beyond end-of-project dissemination-based approaches. Engagement with
 research stakeholders is commonly embedded across multiple stages of the research process in a
 ‘virtuous circle’ of engagement from project proposal, pilot work, initial research design, to data
 collection, analysis and theory-building, write-up and communication. We work with decision-
 makers and grassroots members at multiple levels to understand how our research has generated
 impacts within beneficiary organisations, identify barriers to change, and co-design follow-on
 research proposals, through long-term commitment to user-led research.
    (e) Develops interdisciplinary forms of engagement and impact with NU geographers also
 leading international teams of researchers and stakeholders to develop novel strategies for
 improvement and change. This approach is epitomised through the UKRI GCRF Living Deltas
 Hub which combines participatory capacity-building frameworks from multiple disciplinary
 perspectives to: support vulnerable groups; advance low cost, stakeholder-driven, data-collection
 systems; produce a Delta Health Index for improved environmental planning; and advance delta-
 level policy interventions to achieve sustainable coastal systems. Support structures for enabling
 our Unit impact strategy are described in Section 3.

 NU Geography’s research culture: is defined by collective values, codified through successive
 research away days. These give our work a distinctive identity and integrity, underpin our research
 strategy and ethics, steer our recruitment and resource allocation, and embed equality of research
 opportunity:
 (1) We value diverse forms of research and are committed to creative work that is socially and
     politically engaged, theoretically and empirically rich, and ethically sound.
 (2) We value research that is interdisciplinary and located within and across geography.
 (3) We value research that is locally-embedded and that is global in scope and outlook.
 (4) We are committed to critical research that has a societal impact, is openly accessible to all,
     engages with diverse communities and audiences, and promotes socio-economic and
     environmental justice.
 (5) We value and nurture all talent so that we can all fulfil our productive potential, and all
     researchers (including UGs, PGRs, ECRs, technicians and academic staff) are integral
     members of our research environment.
 (6) We integrate our research into our cutting-edge teaching.

 Strategic objectives for research and impact 2021-28:
 (1) Support all colleagues to advance original and ambitious research that is critical, conceptually
     innovative, empirically rigorous and yields societal and environmental benefit.
 (2) Develop high-profile research that connects human and physical geography and responds to
     global societal and environmental challenges.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3) Equip all colleagues with the skills and equality of opportunity to attract external research
     grant income.
 (4) Provide targeted support for PGRs, early- and mid-career staff to reinforce the long-term
     sustainability of our research.
 (5) Invest in and extend our research networks with collaborators and stakeholders in the UK and
     internationally.
 (6) Enhance Newcastle’s position as a world-leading centre of excellence in geographical
     research, engagement and impact, and capacity-building.

 These strategic objectives are written into the School Research Strategy 2021-28. Capacities in
 place to meet those goals include: expanded bid collaborations between ECR colleagues and
 senior academics to foster ‘research apprenticeship’; Unit-wide peer research mentoring; bid
 development workshops to develop flagship NU Geography projects, including those bridging
 physical and human geography; open access and research data management training; and
 targeted PhD-supervisor co-publishing, CV development, and job interview training to position our
 PGRs more effectively in a tight labour market (with NU Careers Service).

 Our strategy for developing new ICSs rests on deepening recently-established impact work,
 further development of long-standing co-production partnerships, continued NU investment in
 high-risk/high-reward research ideas, and colleagues’ commitment to developing imaginative
 solutions to societal and global needs. UKRI project funding is already being used to develop
 major impact pathways including: improving the lives of young refugees and asylum seekers
 (HERA Hopkins, Benwell); tackling drug-resistant infections in food systems (GCRF-AHRC
 Hughes); improving maternal health care in refugee camps (GCRF-EPSRC Bagelman, Pain); and
 building Palestinian youth agency in communities vulnerable to house demolitions (BA Griffiths).
 Sustainable impact activity is also strengthened through CURDS, founded on a commitment to
 policy engagement and research impact over the long-term.


 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development: Since REF2014 NU Geography has embarked on an
 ambitious growth strategy through strategic investment in outstanding new staff across physical
 and human geography. Combined with strong retention, this success has more than doubled our
 Unit size (56.3FTE cf. 27.2 REF2014), to add new capacity, continuity and ‘homegrown’
 leadership across all 4 research clusters and CURDS. Geography has seen only 4 staff
 departures to other HEIs (Laurie, Vallance, Nakagawa, Yamazaki). Replacement of former staff
 plus succession planning for 4 retired staff means that our research programme has not been
 disrupted. Alongside 7 replacement posts, substantial NU investment in 22 new open-ended
 posts (with 3 more to start Summer 2021), has enabled appointment of a mix of in-house, UK and
 international talent to broaden and enhance our research capacity.

 Two new Chairs have been appointed, both women: Pain (2017 Durham) provides leadership in
 the GoSC Cluster; and Franklin (2018 Brown USA, funded through the NU Research Investment
 Fund) provides new leadership in CURDS and NU Spatial Analytics and Modelling Lab.

 Another 27 open-ended appointments (one third women) have infused all 4 clusters and CURDS
 with best practice from other leading Geography departments in the UK and internationally:
 • PhG Cluster: Callard (2019 Durham) ice sheets; Carr (2014 Aberystwyth) glaciology; Cutler
   (2017 Cambridge) ecosystem science, biogeography; Dunning (2015 Northumbria) hillslope
   processes, avalanches; Perks (2017 Durham) fluvial geomorphology; Robinson (2019
   Durham) earthquakes, landslides; and van Hardenbroek (2017 Southampton) aquatic
   ecosystems.
 • GoSC Cluster: Blazek (2017 Loughborough) childhood and migration; Copeland (2014
   Durham) health inequalities; Cunningham (2019 Durham) urban inequalities; Johnston (2017


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Edinburgh) transnational social reproduction; Lawshaw (2015 Durham) urban social
    geographies; Richardson (2014 Newcastle) gender and masculinities.
 • EG Cluster: James (2016 QMUL) labour geography; Loomis (2020 Clark) feminist political
   economy; Powells (2014 Durham) energy and infrastructures; Wood (2016 Cardiff) transport,
   urbanisms. CURDS: Lim (2018 Nottingham) Chinese political economy; Ormerod (2020
   Newcastle) urban economy.
 • PSP Cluster: Benwell (2016 Newcastle) everyday geopolitics; Bagelman (2019 Exeter)
   migration, sanctuary, anticolonial justice; Jones (2017 UBC) war, conflict, displacement;
   Pande (2015 Durham) postcolonial feminism; Pugh (2014 Newcastle) island studies.
 • Three NU Academic Track Fellows (3FTE, 2019-2024) have also been appointed, from a
   global field of 750 applicants: Griffiths (2019 Northumbria) critical geopolitics of development,
   Riding (2019 Tampere) cultural geographies of trauma and nostalgia, Hackney (2020 Hull)
   fluvial geomorphology and deltaic systems. Each fellowship transitions to an open-ended
   lectureship after 5 years, and accelerates research development through 100% dedicated
   research time, mentorship, an allocated PhD studentship, and £50k research budget.
   Geography secured the largest allocation of all NU Units (3 of 22 Fellows year 1), further
   evidencing our world-class research profile and ambition.
 Collectively, these posts represent a major investment in early-career staff, to enable new
 research activity, increased interdisciplinary reach, and cluster succession into the next review
 period. They include targeted recruitment in EG in response to a UK trend of economic
 geographers moving into Business and Management Schools over successive RAE/REFs since
 2000, against which NU’s growing EG cluster is distinctive, leading and vital to the discipline
 internationally. Additional investment in postdoctoral researchers includes: 5 Newcastle
 Research Excellence Academy Postdoctoral Fellows (2 years, 4FTE) in: human geography (Pani
 (QMUL (1 year), Pettit (Oxford (1 year)), Finlay (Newcastle), Mearns (Newcastle)) and physical
 geography (Brough (Keele), Bainbridge (Northumbria)); 3 ESRC Postdoctoral Fellows (all
 women: Ormerod, Cree Durham; Mason Newcastle); 2 Leverhulme Early-Career Fellows
 (Benwell Keele, Ghaffari Newcastle); and one AHRC Senior Research Associate (Jenkings).

 These appointments have enabled staff representation at all levels of experience, from early-
 career (45%), to mid-career (20%), to professor (35%, 16 Chairs in the UoA, 7 women).
 Promotions since 2014 (36, 80% female success rate) have rewarded exceptional research
 performance, impact and leadership, including: Hughes, James, Jarvis, Juggins, Large, and
 Megoran to Chairs; Dawley, Dunning, Henderson, Pugh and Williams to Readerships;
 Benwell, Blazek, Carr, Johnston, Lawshaw, Lim, Lin, Pande, Powells and Ross to SL; and
 Pearson to Principal Research Associate. Geographers are also leading the university research
 and engagement agenda: University Dean of Social Justice (Hopkins); Associate Dean for
 Research and Innovation HASS (Kempton); Chair NU NERC Demand Management Panel
 (Large); Director ESRC NINE DTP (Marshall, Hopkins, Pain); NERC One Planet DTP
 management group (Large); Co-Director Centre for Researching Cities (MacKinnon); Co-Lead
 Centre for Climate & Environmental Resilience (Henderson); Spatial Analytics lead Centre for
 Data (Franklin); and NU Martin Luther King Peace Committee (Megoran founder, co-lead).

 Our School has taken action to reduce the number of staff on fixed-term contracts (21%
 REF2014 cf. 12% REF2021). Staff secondments to Faculty and University leadership roles, ICS
 development, PT working in support of family care, and completion of externally-funded research
 fellowships have been supported through fixed-term lectureships (8 since 2014). This has enabled
 6 PhD students to secure their first academic post, mentored as below.

 Supporting our researchers: Newcastle geographers benefit from an established and
 comprehensive support network to develop their research practice. Particular effort is directed
 towards ECRs to develop independent research profiles:
   (1) Research mentoring and planning: is offered to all colleagues. Mentoring pairs are
 matched on research interest, mentor experience, and mentee needs, and mentors receive

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workload allowance. Staff also undergo comprehensive research induction (Unit, School, Faculty),
 thereafter annual Personal Research Planning meetings and Performance Development Review
 with rotating senior leads. Staff review the past year, connect research to promotion plans, receive
 constructive feedback, and agree future objectives and support.
   (2) Full sabbatical scheme: is open to all staff by annual application, and builds research
 capacity through opportunities for extended fieldwork, concentrated writing time, and funding bid
 development. Staff are entitled to fully-funded research leave (1 in 7 teaching semesters),
 conditional upon a clear research plan, teaching cover and end-of-leave report. Since REF2014,
 41 staff have benefitted from 50 semesters of sabbatical leave. We provide year-long leave for
 staff following major management roles. Research leave in NU Geography has been
 maintained in full through COVID-19.
   (3) Sustainable administrative and teaching workloads: are agreed between Head of
 Geography, School Manager and colleagues to support their research activity with realistic
 citizenship goals and a good work-life balance. Space for research and impact activity is provided
 through a transparent workload allocation model (WAM) that protects 40% of staff time for
 research, provides reduced and graduated teaching and administrative loads for ECRs in their first
 2 years, and is emulated as best practice by other NU Units.

 Postgraduate researchers: our graduate community continues to be a benchmark of the
 quality, vitality and sustainability of our research culture and practice. NU Geography has
 attracted high quality PhD students (average 59 students registered p.a., 42% women), of whom
 85% have won competitive external studentships or prestigious NU scholarships. We have
 supervised 66 PhD students to completion (49.07FTE cf. 36.61FTE REF2014). And as our PGR
 numbers continue to grow, our cohort remains diverse in terms of gender, social background and
 geographical origin (from 26 countries). Colleagues have co-supervised 45 PGR students in 20
 other Geography departments (UK and internationally), contributing to the global sustainability of
 our discipline. Evidencing our commitment to interdisciplinarity, we have also co-supervised 23
 PGRs at NU outside Geography (Business, Civil Engineering, Fine Art, Heritage, Planning,
 Education, Maths, Computing).
 PGR support and training: selection, induction, research skills development, and employability
 training are overseen by a Geography PGR Director (supported by 0.8FTE PGR Manager) and
 School Postgraduate Studies Committee. Newcastle’s HASS Faculty’s PGR researcher training
 and development programme is interdisciplinary, multicultural, and develops epistemological and
 methodological research skills for successful PhD completion. NU’s code of practice requires joint
 PhD supervision and involves the majority of Geography staff in PGR research mentoring, pairing
 ECRs with experienced supervisors. Students complete an Annual Progress Review with 2 staff
 outside their supervisory team. All PGRs belong to one or more research clusters, and are
 encouraged to present in cluster reading groups, lunchtime seminars, workshops and writing
 groups. All PGRs benefit from desk space and computing facilities access in dedicated offices,
 and full access to School research facilities. Geography also offers PGRs paid RA work to
 develop their research skills further. PGRs are supported £1.8k p.a. (training, workshops and
 international conference attendance) to showcase their research and build international networks.
 Our excellence and leadership in PGR training is also evidenced through membership of
 multiple UKRI Doctoral Training Partnerships: ESRC 2011-, AHRC 2013-, NERC 2014-:

 • ESRC Northern Ireland and North East (NINE) DTP (2014-2021, £14M).16 training
   pathways are offered, with NU Geography successful through the Children Youth and Families,
   Conflict Security and Justice, and Health Well-Being and Society interdisciplinary pathways,
   and Human Geography pathway, securing 39 PhD studentships (and 3 PDRFs) in this review
   period. Since REF2014 the NINE DTP has been directed by NU Geographers Marshall (2014),
   Hopkins (2015-16), and Pain (2019-). Under Hopkins it achieved ESRC reaccreditation,
   expanded from 2 to 7 universities, and introduced new interdisciplinary pathways.
 • NERC IAPETUS DTP (2014-2022, £5.3M) and IAPETUS2 DTP (2019-2024, £7.3M) train the
   next generation of environmental scientists through interdisciplinary clusters of internationally-
   recognised excellence: global environmental change; geodynamics and Earth resources;
   carbon and nutrient cycling; hazards, risks and resilience, and biodiversity and ecosystem

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   resources. NU Geography has secured 5 IAPETUS and 3 IAPETUS2 studentships in this
   period.
 • NERC One Planet DTP (2019-2024, £5.5M) integrates natural and social sciences to establish
   transdisciplinary responses to global environmental challenges (climate change, earth system
   processes, Anthropocene and environmental informatics). Students follow a common 6-month
   training programme and then spend 6 months developing discipline-specific and
   interdisciplinary research skills. Training involves frequent interaction with international
   scientists and end-users around: rigorous design and conduct of experiments, socially
   responsible research, and effective communication. NU Geography has secured 3 One Planet
   studentships (est. 2019).
 • NU Geography is also part of the AHRC Northern Bridge DTP, which offers up to 67
   studentships annually. Geography has yet to recruit through this DTP and we will target this in
   the next review period by working with talented UG students in cultural geography. Additional
   mechanisms for PGR recruitment are the MA in Human Geography and MA in Local and
   Regional Development (Research) (both ESRC-recognised), MA in Regional Development and
   Spatial Planning and new MRes Environmental Geoscience - all offered on a FT/PT basis.

 PGR research excellence: NU Geography continues to play a vital role in sustaining our
 discipline. Since REF2014, 9 PGR students have moved to university lectureships and 14 to
 postdoctoral research positions. Our PGRs have published their outstanding PhD research in
 major international journals (including TIBG, JEG, EPA, JQS, Jnl. Glaciology) and have won
 awards including: 3 UKRI-Mitacs global citizen research placements in Canadian universities;
 European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling Outstanding Young Scientists Award 2016;
 Urban Studies best paper 2018; and scholarships to the 2016 and 2018 Summer Institutes in
 Economic Geography and 2018 Degrowth International Summer School. Building research
 impact, our PGRs have collaborated with public, private and charitable organisations across the
 region and beyond, including: ESRC CDAs with the UN, Investing in Children, Twin Trading, North
 East Refugee Service, Tech Nation, Newcastle City Council, Newcastle Gateshead Initiative,
 Yorkshire Trans Support Network; and NERC-CASE studentships with the Wildfowl and Wetlands
 Trust and AOC Archaeology. Post-graduation,15 PGRs have moved to senior research, impact
 and policy roles nationally and internationally.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion: NU Geography has a long history of promoting equal
 opportunity, also evident through our research on gender politics, inclusive economies, work/life
 balance, racial equality, LGBTQ+ support and intersectionality. Colleagues benefit from a
 welcoming and inclusive research environment, recognised through the School’s 2019 Athena
 SWAN bronze award for promoting women in academia, led by Geography (Jarvis). Women
 comprise 41% of Geography’s 56.3FTE (23 women, doubled from REF2014, stable at 41%). All
 our research clusters and CURDS are mixed gender, and our female Professorial leadership is
 more than double the UK average for Geography: 7 women hold Chairs (44% cf. UK 21%).
 Our returned outputs (128) include 52% female co-authored and 36% female-first authored
 outputs. Research funding success is also evenly distributed: 84% of staff have been awarded
 external income since 2014, with gender rates of application consistent with Unit gender
 composition, and female award success rates marginally higher. Our PGR cohort is 52% female,
 with no gender inequality evident in PhD completion rates nor PGR attrition. UG/PGT/PGR
 transitions also reveal very low female attrition. Continued inclusion of 4 emeritus colleagues
 furthers our EDI commitment across all career stages.

 Underpinning this inclusive research environment, EDI is promoted through multiple initiatives
 at Unit, School, and Faculty level:
   (1) Inclusive hiring process: all staff are invited to advertise posts widely and participate in pre-
 interview group discussions with short-listed candidates. Job descriptions and adverts are
 checked for subtle gender, racial, heteronormative codes that would undermine applicant
 diversity. EO policies are followed throughout, with gender-balanced selection and interview
 panels, and mandatory unconscious bias training for all panellists.


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   (2) Flexible working: Geography has a strong track record of support for staff switching to
 reduced hours (16 academic staff during this review period). Alongside parents and carers this
 includes colleagues taking phased retirement, and with other personal-life commitments. A
 positive ‘demonstration effect’ is evident, supported by fair adjustments in the Workload Allocation
 Model. Research meetings, training events, reading groups and seminars are majority scheduled
 within core hours (10am – 4pm) to accommodate caring.
   (3) Supporting parents through leave: Geography encourages all staff to make full use of:
 maternity, paternity and parental leave (22% staff in this review period), full holiday entitlement,
 and NU Parents Network. Maternity leave is counted as part of semesters accumulated for
 research leave. The full annual entitlement of Independent Research Staff Allowance funds
 (Section 3) is made available for staff on maternity/adoption leave to ensure colleagues are
 equally treated and well supported on their return. Promotion applications can be made on
 maternity leave with guidance provided at the annual School Equality Day. Geography maintains a
 100% maternity return rate.
   (4) Making diverse role models visible: through our external seminar series, with 45 women
 presenting across a programme of 103 seminars in Geography and CURDS since REF2014. GPS
 funding is also promoted for Visiting Researchers, to provide accessible role models (61 visitors
 hosted since REF2014). We have encouraged repeat short visits to facilitate visitors with caring
 responsibilities. Female representation on School Research Committee has increased since
 REF2014, with research leadership roles held by women in Geography including: School
 Research Director, Geography PGR Director, Director of NINE DTP, Geography Research Impact
 Coordinator, and Associate Dean for Business and Innovation HASS Faculty. Geography also
 leads through Jarvis as School Director of EDI.
   (5) Enhancing EDI through Estates Planning: the £60M Henry Daysh Building refurbishment
 included equality analysis in its design to address longstanding accessibility issues, increase
 availability of inclusive toilets for transgender students and staff, and provide baby changing
 facilities and ‘NU well-being rooms’ for expressing milk and breastfeeding.

 Advancing EDI 2014-28: Geography submitted 45 applications for promotion in this review
 period: 80% of women were successful, but only 22% of applicants were women. Over the next 7
 years we will work with NUWomen and the Women in Higher Education Network and seek
 enlarged access to Aurora Programmes and coaching to develop female research leadership,
 increase female-led UKRI bids, and offer tailored mentoring for promotion, as our ECR female
 cohort moves through. We will continue to ensure that equal gender representation on research
 committees does not create an EDI-driven administrative overload for some colleagues. Beyond
 gender inclusion, we remain a predominantly white group of staff of UK origin (14% international,
 8% BAME). We will work with the HASS Faculty Director of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion to
 widen our job search networks, target graduate schools with racially diverse PGR communities,
 and ensure candidates from the global South are properly resourced during recruitment. We will
 continue to work with NU, through School Executive Board (SEB), to reduce casualization, and
 monitor EDI in recruitment and promotion, outreach and engagement.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income: Since 2014, NU Geography has increased external grant income in support of
 intellectually-rigorous, world-leading research with positive academic, societal and environmental
 impact. Total research income is £6.22M (cf. £4.1M REF2014) across 144 awards (40% include
 female investigators from NU Geography). UKRI spend represents £3.97M or 64% of total spend
 (cf. £2.42M 56% REF2014). We have also diversified our funding portfolio: alongside UKRI and
 EU monies, income spans 56 different funding providers (UK and international). This also
 reflects our strategy for developing partnership models of research, including: Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation, VSO, TUC, HM Government Department for Innovation and Skills, UK Office for
 National Statistics, Environment Agency, National Trust, Historic Environment Scotland, British
 Antarctic Survey and The Royal Society. Evidencing strategic development of new staff, UKRI
 grants led by ECRs as PI include: Van Hardenbroek (NERC, £654k); Cree (ESRC New
 Investigator, £299k); and Bagelman (GCRF UKRI £150k).

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research infrastructure: NU Geography is supported at School level by a full-time professional
 services research support team of 5FTE (Research Manager, Research Officer, Pre-Award
 Officer, and 2 Post-Award Officers). CURDS also has a research centre manager (0.5FTE) and
 administrator (0.5FTE). This team disseminates diverse funding opportunities, develops costings
 and contracts, administers award spends and co-ordinates research-related events and visitors.
 School Research Committee (SRC) meets monthly to develop and implement the School’s
 research strategy, distribute seed-funding, and support and monitor research activity. Geography
 has its own Research Directors for Human and Physical Geography who are members of SRC
 and work with the Head of Geography, Geography Impact Coordinator, Research Cluster leads
 and PGR Director to enable Geography research and impact and monitor progress on strategic
 research objectives, with oversight from the School Research Director.

 Additional Faculty research support structures include a team of 10.3FTE (including Faculty
 Research Manager, 3 Impact Officers, 2 Business Development Managers in support of
 partnerships with non-HEIs, 2 Research Support Officers, Media Relations Officer). The Faculty
 Research and Innovation Committee (FRIC) and Faculty Impact Forum (FIF) monitor and promote
 research activity throughout the Faculty and report to the University Research and Innovation
 Committee (URIC). URIC develops cross-faculty research policy and strategy and is chaired by
 NU’s PVC Research Strategy and Resources. The development of the GCRF UKRI Living Deltas
 Hub bid saw Geography catalyse enhanced NU grant finance support structures for international
 consortium bid development.

 Support for project proposal development: is provided for all staff through one-on-one support,
 monthly drop-in sessions, ‘best practice’ workshops, bespoke training, peer review, and sharing
 successful bids. Expert pre-award input covers multiple bid elements: strategic alignment to
 funder priorities, case for support development, costings, staffing needs, data management, non-
 HEI collaboration, response to reviewers, mock interview training, project management and media
 engagement. Additional input is provided to physical geographers through the NERC Demand
 Management Panel. Early-career academics gain additional peer support from the NU Early-
 Career Network. Successful award holders undertake NU’s PI Development Course.

 Research support funds: enable staff to pump-prime their research activities at different stages.
 These include: (i) School Research Fund (£1k per project); (ii) Faculty Research Fund,
 supporting ECRs beginning new research projects (up to £4k); (iii) Faculty Bid Preparation Fund
 (£5k for bids up to £200k, £10k for bids over £200k); and (iv) Open Access Publication Support
 Fund (up to £5k). All staff receive an annual Independent Research Allowance (IRSA) of £2.3k
 p.a. (increased from £1.3k 2014) in support of research activity (pump-priming, fieldwork,
 conferences, research travel, accommodation, equipment), across all academic and research staff
 regardless of contract or career stage. In this review period, PIs and CoIs have accrued 70% of
 their FEC Directly Allocated time to their personal Research Support Fund – alongside consulting
 fees - to enable strategic buyout from teaching to support research activities (additional to the
 40% staff research time automatically allocated in the WAM, and maintained during COVID-19).
 Additional Geography research funds (£10k p.a.) support cluster initiatives.

 Support for research engagement and impact is provided by the Geography Impact
 Coordinator (new role since 2014), Geography Research Director, School Research Director,
 HASS Impact Manager and ESRC IAA Officer. Since REF2014, research impact in Geography
 has been enabled through: (1) Internal impact funding comprising Faculty Impact Fund (FIF)
 (£76k total) and Geography Impact Fund (GIF) (£138k total) to reinforce ESRC IAA Awards
 (£134k total) and UKRI funded pathways to impact; (2) Impact pathway development support
 for colleagues at all career stages is part of internal peer review of all grant applications; (3)
 Impact mentoring / apprenticeship for ECRs as CoIs on funded impact pathways guided by
 senior PIs; alongside new staff research induction, and PhD supervision and training; (4) Sharing
 best practice through Geography impact development workshops, including training in methods
 of co-production and engagement, impact seminars, and learning across human and physical



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 geography; and (5) Protected staff time for research engagement activities in the Geography
 Workload Allocation Model, with additional provision for staff leading ICSs.

 Research Facilities: Since REF2014, Geography has benefitted from a £60M refurbishment of
 the Henry Daysh Building, to house all colleagues on one floor for the first time (phase 1
 completed 2020, phase II 2021). This new accommodation brings facilities benefits in support of
 Geography’s research ambition going into the next REF with: enhanced everyday learning
 interactions, physical integration of staff and PGR offices, new seminar rooms, high-end
 computing suite, and videoconferencing. In addition, NU provides high-quality IT and library
 resources: 3 year rolling computer upgrades; specialist software for advanced quantitative
 research and GIS (including field and remote sensing data processing, numerical modelling,
 visualisation); online repository to facilitate immediate and total public access to staff
 outputs (OA green route) with additional HASS funding for gold access in pay-to-publish
 journals in physical geography. Geography has also benefitted from a £2M investment from the
 NU Research Infrastructure Fund, to develop the transdisciplinary Spatial Analytics and Modelling
 Lab, including four new Chairs (one in CURDS) connecting computational, digital, engineering,
 physical and social sciences.

 Supporting lab and field research in physical geography: Since 2014, research capacity in
 physical geography has been enhanced through new world-class laboratory facilities (Drummond
 labs, Houston lab, Sedimentology labs: combined £3M investment), supported by 3 technicians
 (2.5FTE), plus 1 technician (1FTE) on Living Deltas. Our laboratories offer outstanding facilities for
 analysis of sediment geochemistry, paleoecology, physical characteristics of sediments,
 cosmogenic isotope and organic geochemistry. Key equipment in the new labs includes: a Jena
 sediment carbon analyser, and GCMS gas chromatography mass spectrometer (chemical trace
 fossil analysis for climate change work). Additional lab equipment purchased since REF2014
 (£640k investment) includes: new ball mill for faster sediment processing; a portable XRF for rapid
 analytical processing of metals in cores and other sediments; new freeze dryer that has doubled
 freeze drying capacity; and new mastersizer for more efficient analysis of sediment particle size.
 Additional strategic investment (£500k) in state-of-the-art fieldwork equipment includes: 4km
 terrestrial laser scanner, ground- and ice-penetrating radar, Leica dGPS, seismic reflection sub-
 sediment profiler, sidescan sonar for lakebed mapping, bespoke equipment for non-contaminated
 DNA analysis of cores, a UWITECH coring platform, dedicated departmental 4x4 vehicle for
 remote fieldwork, plus new Living Deltas equipment for field water quality analysis. This has been
 coupled with new investment in sample refrigerated storage (cores, sediments, water samples)
 tripling our capacity.

 Research income plans 2021-28: we have already secured over £3.7M in UKRI monies for
 spend in the next review period, underpinning the viability of our future research plans.
 Research mentoring of our new ECR cohort combined with strategic use of NU bid development
 and pilot project funds will help these colleagues expand their research programmes and move to
 larger collaborative submissions and mid-career fellowships, to increase our per capita research
 income. A funding environment shifting towards interdisciplinary, challenge-led and
 internationalised research also puts NU Geography in a strong position to compete and succeed
 in the next review period.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Since REF2014, NU Geography has built successful research partnerships with other academics;
 advanced the global research base in Geography; and engaged with non-HEIs to develop new
 research with positive economic, societal and environmental impacts for diverse stakeholders:

 Disciplinary service and research leadership (UK and international): continuing our Unit’s
 long-standing practice of leading international research agendas and contributing to the academy,
 staff hold key leadership roles in learned societies and professional associations. Staff and PGRs
 have advanced the work of the RGS-IBG research groups through key developmental and


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 advocacy roles: Economic Geography RG (Hughes Chair; James, Lim, Pettit); Geographies of
 Children, Youth and Families RG (Blazek, Benwell); Geographies of Justice RG (Hopkins Founder
 and Chair), Political Geography RG (Williams, Benwell, Mason); Participatory Geographies RG
 (Blazek); Developing Areas RG (Pande). Staff have also advanced the work of AAG specialty
 groups through leadership and advocacy roles: Population SG (Franklin President), Economic
 Geography SG (Lim), Digital Geographies SG (Lin), Urban Geography SG (Wood). Staff have
 also advanced the work of international research organisations providing research
 leadership, advocacy, and capacity-building: Western Regional Science Association (Franklin),
 Regional Studies Association (Dawley), International Glaciological Society (Carr), IGU Islands
 Commission (Pugh), International Society for Diatom Research (Juggins), International Society for
 River Science (Large) and International Paleolimnology Association (Henderson).

 Newcastle Geographers have also played important roles in shaping research agendas by
 representing our discipline on multiple major funding bodies. Within UKRI, staff have served on
 key committees for NERC, ESRC, AHRC, EPSRC and NIHR. Human geographers have: chaired
 AHRC Grant Panel C; and served on ESRC DTC assessment panels, Wellcome Trust Scientific
 Advisory Group, ESRC strategic review of social science, AHRC Strategic Reviewers’ Group and
 ESRC Strategic Advisory Network to define research priorities for grant funding bodies. Physical
 geographers have provided research leadership through NERC Panel A, NERC Isotope
 Geoscience Facilities Committee, and Geology and Environment Panel of the National
 Environmental Isotope Facility. Three-quarters of staff have engaged in grant peer review to
 shape the allocation of the UKRI research budget through ESRC, AHRC and NERC, with one
 third also completing peer review for international funders, including European Research Council,
 US National Science Foundation, and 15 national research councils overseas.

 Our international research leadership also extends to professional service roles through: the
 European Research Executive Agency, Marie Curie, US National Science Foundation, NERC
 British Ocean Sediment Core Research Facility and Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research.
 Staff have also provided reviews on senior academic promotions in the UK and overseas
 throughout the review period.

 Disciplinary leadership and service is evidenced through editorship of international journals
 including Economic Geography (Pollard), Gender, Place and Culture (Hopkins), Progress in
 Human Geography (Hughes), Journal of War and Cultures Studies (Woodward), Children’s
 Geographies (Benwell), Geographical Analysis (Franklin), Journal of Glaciology (Carr), Frontiers
 in Earth Sciences (Carr). Staff have served on the editorial boards of 40 major journals in physical
 and human geography (plus 15 interdisciplinary journals); and editorial boards of high-profile
 international book series, including: RGS-IBG, Gender Space and Society, RSA Policy Impact and
 Spaces of Peace, Security and Development Series.

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships: are central to our strategy and the
 influence of our research. This is evidenced through our submitted outputs portfolio (n=128): 81%
 co-authored with UK collaborators; and 46% co-authored with international collaborators.
 Illustrative international research partnerships in physical geography include: the Russian
 Academy of Sciences Tomsk (Van Hardenbroek EU Horizon 2020) and University of Tokyo,
 University of Melbourne, Yunnan University, University of Kanazawa, and Chinese Academy of
 Science (Henderson NERC). International research partnerships in human geography include:
 Federal University Rio De Janeiro and Sun Yat-sen University China (Hughes ESRC); Tampere
 Finland and Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Griffiths BA); Kenyatta University, Kenya (Bagelman
 GCRF / Leverhulme); University of Malawi (Hughes AHRC); UBC Canada (Johnston ESRC,
 SSRC); and Gakushuin University and Sophia University Japan (Cunningham ESRC). The UKRI
 GCRF Living Deltas Hub exemplifies this commitment, through a global network of 55 Co-Is from
 34 partner institutions (UK, Europe, US, South and SE Asia).

 Closer to home, successful collaborative research within NU Geography is evidenced through 31
 externally-funded projects (total £4.55M income) and co-authorship of 25% of returned outputs.
 Interdisciplinary collaboration at NU is also evident through leadership of NUCoREs (Data,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Energy, Cities, Climate & Environmental Resilience); and Spatial Analytics and Modelling Lab
 (see section 1). Our location in the School of Geography, Politics and Sociology further supports
 our interdisciplinary strategy.

 Our commitment to research collaboration, networking and partnership is also evidenced through
 our contributions to international conferences, workshops, symposia: since REF2014 NU
 Geography staff have delivered over 620 research papers (including 85 invited keynotes), and
 organised over 120 conference sessions. Building on REF2014, we continue to host international
 visiting academics (61 total). These visitors act as conduits for collaboration and impact and
 have also supported career development, through sessions on journal paper submission for
 ECRs, research mentoring, and cross-departmental benchmarking. Returning the favour, NU
 Geography staff have held visiting positions at 15 universities overseas. Geography and
 CURDS run high-profile external seminar programmes (103 seminars since 2014) to foster
 cross-institutional dialogue, learning, and engagement. Colleagues have delivered 167 invited
 seminars in the UK and overseas. Extending our international role in disciplinary reproduction, NU
 Geography will host the 2022 RGS-IBG Annual Conference with significant NU investment, the
 largest conference that NU has ever hosted (1800 delegates).

 Building research capacity through advancement of PGRs and ECRs: Collaborative PGR
 training is central to our research strategy and disciplinary role. In addition to our internal cohort,
 staff have co-supervised 23 students in other NU Units, and 45 PhD students registered at 20
 other universities. This includes successive cohorts of PGRs through the ESRC NINE DTP and
 NERC IAPETUS(2) DTP, based on our long-established partnership with Durham University.
 Externally-funded projects have also enabled research apprenticeship of 31 ECR research
 assistants in NU Geography. The NU-led Living Deltas Hub alone employs over 40 postdoctoral
 researchers at 26 institutions worldwide.

 Diverse engagement and co-production with non-HEIs and publics: NU Geography’s
 longstanding reputation for engaged research and co-production is rooted in our collective
 commitment to applied work. Since 2014 colleagues have engaged with over 270 non-HEI
 research users and beneficiary organisations locally, nationally and internationally. NU
 Geography research has benefitted: government agencies through provision of robust evidence
 and scientific models for evidence-based policy making; NGOs and charities by enabling more
 effective decision-making and resource allocation; and environmental groups, labour collectives,
 and development organisations by improving knowledge and understanding amongst practitioners
 in response to human and environmental needs, and generating new capacities for improving the
 everyday lives of vulnerable people.

 Extending across all staff, and beyond our submitted ICSs, this breadth of research
 engagement spans: pioneering work in CURDS to establish and deliver a civic role for UK
 universities within their respective cities to meet challenges of sustainability, health and cultural
 development (55 UK universities are now committed through the UK Civic University
 Commission); ESRC-funded research with the UN’s Codex Alimentarius, UK Food Standards
 Agency and UK corporate retailers to develop strategies for tackling antimicrobial resistance in
 food systems; and community engagement through Tyne and Wear Citizens listening campaigns
 that led to NU becoming the first university in the North East to accredit as a Living Wage
 Employer. It also includes: EPSRC research on hydrogen as an affordable home energy source
 with energy providers (Northern Powergrid, Northern Gas Networks) and stakeholders (Affordable
 Warmth Solutions, National Energy Action); and NERC/WFP earthquake modelling and landslide
 simulation research to improve national earthquake contingency planning (UN Office for
 Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs) and to target key trail routes in Nepal for landslide mitigation
 to maintain critical access routes following earthquakes (World Food Programme). Pioneering
 work to deliver the UK's COP26 climate change adaptation strategic programme in South and SE
 Asia is being developed through UKRI GCRF Living Deltas Hub with the UK Foreign,
 Commonwealth and Development Office at Ambassadorial and High Commissioner level in
 Vietnam, Bangladesh and West Bengal, India. These partnerships enrich our research
 environment by providing diverse critical feedback, access to valuable datasets and hard-to-

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reach participant groups, innovative co-production of engagement ethics and locally-appropriate
 codes of conduct, collaborative PhDs, and dissemination of research that matters.

 Our research expertise has also been called on extensively by UK Government with colleagues
 providing expert guidance to: the Department of Business Innovation and Skills, Department for
 International Development, Treasury, Department for Education, Ministry of Defence, House of
 Commons Committees (Business Energy and Industrial Strategy, Communities and Local
 Government Committee), House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee, Welsh Government,
 Northern Ireland Executive, Scottish Parliament Local Government and Communities Committee,
 and UK All Party Parliamentary Group on the Polar Regions; alongside the UK National Audit
 Office, UK Office for National Statistics (2021 Census Advisory Group), UK National Infrastructure
 Commission, NHS, Environment Agency, and Forestry Commission. We also maintain strong and
 longstanding input into the European Commission and Organisation for Economic Cooperation
 and Development (e.g. EUROSTAT Labour Market Areas Taskforce).

 We use a range of media and venues to extend public understandings of our research and
 build diverse pathways to impact, through targeted events and enduring relationships with local
 schools, employers, galleries, theatres, museums, cinemas and community enterprise. Innovative
 public engagement activities use visual art, including Nayak’s research workshops with
 Barnardo’s and local primary schools to produce and exhibit 150 artworks featured in the ‘Boys To
 Men’ 2018 exhibition (Great North Museum) in which children questioned assumptions about
 masculinity and gender stereotypes. We have also hosted two Leverhulme Artists in Residency
 (Woodward: Mulvihill 2014, Turner 2017) using movement, dance and play to explore
 connections between people and space with cleaning staff, local schools, and an elders dance
 group. Innovative engagement through theatre and stage includes Cree’s use of participatory
 theatre to raise public understanding of gendered military experience; Johnston’s documentary
 theatre play performing the ethics of outsourced dementia care; and Richardson’s live theatre
 performances at Sage Gateshead through the North East Dads and Lads Project on male
 childcare. Our research has also been shared through TV and film, including BBC Scotland’s
 documentary on domestic violence showcasing Pain’s research on everyday terrorism with
 Scottish Women’s Aid. Staff have featured prominently in NU’s Public Insights Lectures,
 successive ESRC Festivals of Social Science, and continue to host the prestigious Tyneside
 Geographical Lectures. We are routinely approached to contribute to public debate through
 commercial media, further evidencing the quality, international profile and urgency of our
 research.

 Research recognition and influence: The research excellence of staff has achieved prestigious
 recognition in this review period, evidencing the reach and significance of our work and intellectual
 contribution to the research base:
 • Learned Fellowships: Academy of Social Science (Hopkins, Hughes, MacKinnon, Pollard,
    Pain, Pike), Royal Society of Arts (James), Alan Turing Institute (Franklin).
 • Research Fellowships: BA Mid-Career (James 2017-18); Independent Social Research
    Foundation Early-Career (Jones 2019-20), Leverhulme (Stenning 2019-20); Leverhulme Early-
    Career (Ghaffari 2019-2022, Benwell 2013-16, Riding 2013-16).
 • Prizes and awards in physical geography: President’s Medal of the Royal Scottish
    Geographical Society (Ross 2014); Outstanding Service Award International Palaeoliminology
    Association (Juggins 2014); highest cited paper Journal of Palaeoliminology (Juggins 2015)
    and Progress in Earth & Planetary Science (Henderson 2020).
 • Prizes and awards in human geography include: RSA Routledge Early-Career Researcher
    Award (Lim 2019); Boyce Award Distinguished Service to Regional Science (Franklin 2015);
    Environment and Planning A Ashby Prize Best Paper (Hughes 2016, James 2018); Urban
    Studies Best Article (Pain 2020); AAG Cultural Geography Best Paper (Loomis 2018); AAG
    Socialist and Critical Geography Solidarity Award (Hopkins 2018); Local Economy Best Paper
    (Champion 2014); Winner ITB Book Awards Germany 2016 (Bonnett); Journal of Flood Risk
    Management outstanding paper (Lin 2018).


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 NU Geography is proud of these multiple research, impact, engagement, and EDI
 achievements since REF2014, and our creation of a world-class research environment that
 enhances the abilities of all our researchers to fulfil their potential. Moving into the next
 REF period our ambition is to extend our position at the forefront of global research
 agendas in Geography, and to work closely with colleagues in the UK and internationally to
 train the next generation of Geography research leaders, as part of an inclusive global
 interdisciplinary research community.




                                                                                      Page 20
