Institution: Middlesex University

Unit of Assessment: 3, Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing & Pharmacy

1. Overview and mission
Our mission is to use cutting-edge technology and population research to solve important
health problems. In order to achieve this our unit draws on expertise from the Biomedical
Science, Public Health, together with experts from the areas of Nursing practice and
Computer Science.
In order to realise this mission, researchers are aligned to four strategic research themes
- Biophysics and Bioengineering, Biomarkers and Molecular Biology, Global Public Health
Policy and Nursing Practice. Such diverse expertise within the unit enables us to address
research problems from a unique integrative perspective. As a result of this approach we
had significant impact on important and diverse health issues:

   •   Developed new technologies to monitor impaired neonatal lung function and to
       detect and treat cancers
   •   Identified novel molecules to diagnose and treat early stage cancers and
       hypertensive disorders
   •   Led the development of the World Health Organisation metabolic risk factor for non-
       communicable diseases database.
   •   Instrumental in the inclusion of no vitamin K anticoagulants for the treatment of non-
       valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) into the latest WHO Model List of Essential
       Medicines (EML)

In our REF2014 submission all aspects of our research environment were judged to be
conducive to producing internationally excellent and internationally recognized research
and 67% of our submission met the requirements for 3* or 4* research. In particular, our
research strategy and people section, together with our strong links within the NHS and
considerable infrastructure investment were considered as providing a strong focus for
building capacity and sustainability. Middlesex University prioritised the development of
STEM subjects including the creation of a new Faculty of Science and Technology. Within
this, research capacity was built within defined research themes by substantial investment
in infrastructure, facilities and staff. As a result, the University jumped 15 places from 2008
in the power rankings and became the best modern university in London for research power.

We have addressed important health issues through active engagement with institutions,
healthcare providers, and a range of government bodies as well as industrial, public and
voluntary organisations. For example, in our work on the application of electrical impedance
technology for monitoring neonatal lung function we are working closely with The Royal
Hospital for Children, Glasgow, Oulu University Hospital, Finland and Amsterdam UMC,
Netherlands as well as several industrial partners. Our epidemiological research aimed at
reducing the global burden of metabolic disease and obesity involves collaboration with key
international agencies, but notably the World Health Organisation.

These actions together with a continuous research engagement, have led to significant
improvements in our performance across several metrics. For example, we have greatly
increased the number of research active staff. Yearly doctoral completions have increased
by over 40% and our strong level of external research income has increased in this REF
period from £1.96M in REF2014 to £4.9M submitted for REF2021. This income is from a
diverse range of organisations that includes European Union's Horizon 2020 research and
innovation programme, UK Research Councils (EPSRC), overseas governments and seven
UK-based charities including the Academy of Medical Sciences. We have also received
research income from several industrial partnerships including VWR and Pharmidex. This
wide variety of funding sources will provide a more sustainable income stream into the
future. The journal titles included in our outputs reflect the wide breadth and scope of our
research. Examples include Nature, New England Journal of Medicine, Journal of
Biomechanics, Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Journal of Physical Chemistry, The
Journal of Environmental Chemical Engineering, The Lancet, Biosensors and
Bioelectronics; and Disability, Journal and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology

Our unit has an equal gender balance and a diverse community comprised of 31% from
Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) backgrounds, thus bringing a breadth of expertise
and experience. This is higher than the University average and significantly higher than the
UK HEI average (9.8%). Several members of our unit have participated in the women’s
leadership programme Aurora and so far, approximately 20% of UoA3 have completed the
programme and benefitted from this opportunity and are now engaged in leadership roles
(e.g., Research group leadership, programme leadership, chairing internal committees).
The University has recently submitted an application for an Athena Swan Bronze award and
is currently preparing a submission for the Race Equality Charter. Our gender pay gap is
one of the smallest in the higher education sector at 7.6% (March 2019). The sustainability
of this growth has been cemented by embedding research leadership within our unit and
throughout the Science and Technology faculty.

1.1 Research structure
Our unit’s research governance and leadership structures reflect the strategic importance
of promoting research, building capacity, and enhancing its leadership and management. It
is led by the Natural Sciences Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee which
comprises the head of department, research co-ordinators, student co-ordinator,
representatives across the four research areas and the head of the departmental ethics
committee. This committee has a key role in integrating our research within the wider
Faculty and University strategy; overseeing research and knowledge exchange (RKE)
activities, disseminating information arising at Faculty and University level, and supporting
research needs to underpin research sustainability. Progress towards reaching our targets
is informed by income and student data supplied by the University’s Research and
Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO) and by detailed annual research plans completed by all
academic staff and in consultation with postgraduate students. Where appropriate our
research is also organised through the Centre for Investigative and Diagnostic Oncology.
Research clusters promote interdisciplinary and cross Department/Faculty working focused
on societally relevant research areas. These organisational groupings are fluid and any
individual academic might be a member of multiple groups.
Table 1: Research group membership Unit of Assessment 3. Bold italics denotes
group leaders
    Biophysics and        Biomarkers and        Global Public     Nursing Practice
    Bioengineering           Molecular             Health
                              Biology
          Bayford              Dilworth            Di Cesare            Traynor
           Hua                   Hills              Aceijas             Bayford
          Appiah                 Shah               Stordal            Di Cesare
           Bardill              Appiah                Tobi                Liu
     Gomes de Almeida           Bayford            Van Wyck               Hills
            Hills                 Bell                                 Van Wyck
           D. Li              Burczynska
            J. Li               Casimir
           Mutter                Ghali
           Roitt           Gomes de Almeida
           Shah                  D. Li
         Stefanov               Loizidou
           Wen                 Magoulas
                                 Mutter
                              Novoselova
                                Outram
                                Roberts
                                 Roitt
                               Pachenari
                                 Ring
                                Stordal
                               Van Wyck
                                 Wen
                                Yagnik

The word-cloud below shows the 50 most frequently occurring words in the abstracts of
publications in our output submission (excluding words such as study, research, findings).
It clearly evidences our strong embeddedness and demonstrates our emerging strengths in
innovation and strategy and emerging interdisciplinary research.
Figure 1. Word cloud derived from top 50 words appearing in abstracts from
research outputs submitted to REF2021

1.2 Research strategy

Realising our 2014 strategic aims
The chief aims of the REF2014 strategy were to increase staff research capability and
enhance collaborative research both internally and externally to strengthen and expand our
core research activity. Since our highly successful REF 2014 submission we have used and
increased this investment to achieve these objectives. Using focussed investment, we have
achieved each of these aims in the following ways:

Investment in core research activity
Since 2014 the University has invested £2.4M on research-related funding specifically for
research within our unit. This incorporates investment in new laboratory facilities which
focus on our core research activities, including new fully equipped cell culture and
microbiology laboratories and a new molecular biology suite (Section 3). These enable us
to strengthen our core activities to support our growing need for in vitro models of
understanding cell behaviour, biomarker characterisation and biochemical synthesis for
drug targeting. Further investment has also been made to existing infrastructure. For
example, over £700K has been invested to extend the analytical instrumentation supporting
our core research. All laboratory facilities in our £36M Hatchcroft building are fully
maintained by a technical team overseen by a Technical Manager. The team includes five
dedicated technical tutors assigned exclusively to support our research facilities. Laboratory
technology evolves rapidly and our technical team undertakes an annual programme of
equipment assessment so that it may be upgraded or replaced, as necessary.
£18M has been invested within the Faculty on shared infrastructure heavily utilized by
researchers within our unit of assessment. This includes the Ritterman Building – an
innovative space for the Faculty of Science and Technology and the Faculty of Arts and
Creative Industries. The facilities are extensively used by our researchers. For example, the
new 3D printing, laser and water jet cutting technologies have enabled us to construct
complex 3D models for hip implantation (Prof Hua). Alongside this, the Ritterman
laboratories are equipped with blade servers which have enabled us to carry out high-end
computations required for a £3M project to develop an imaging device for continuous non-
invasive bedside monitoring of infant's lung function (CRADL). Our researchers have also
made extensive use of Redloop, our faculty-run innovation and design collaboration centre.
This facility has enabled us to receive prototyping assistance, through our internal
innovation centre; a method that ensures focussed, efficient and timely production of the
devices through the iterative phases of the project.

Our research strategy is closely allied to that of the University. Middlesex University’s
‘enabling plan’ for research (2017) required that institutions ‘Create learning resources
informed by our academics’ research and practice that can be used to enhance student
learning’. Within our unit synergies between research and teaching have been exploited
and developed to enhance research capacity. New programmes have been developed at
both BSc and MSc level that utilise our research expertise. This has enabled us to expand
research capacity by investing in £2.24 M of new equipment central to our research. This
includes next-generation sequencing technology, NanoPore devices and an Illumina
sequencer, Agilent TapeStation, Qubit fluorometer and NanoDrop spectrophotometer.
Furthermore, staff within our unit have access to a high-performance LightCycler real-time
PCR system. These new programmes provide experienced students for future post
graduate work, continuing a virtuous teaching research cycle to increase sustainability.
Several of our graduates have completed PhDs because of this cooperation and are now
embarked on successful careers in the academic and commercial sectors. The success of
this initiative is also reflected in our 40% increase in doctoral completions from our previous
REF submission.

Increase our staffing capability
We have greatly increased the number of research active staff from 14 in REF 2014 to 33
in the current submission. The total staff number within the Department of Natural Sciences
has increased substantially since 2014 to 53.9 FTE currently. Hiring of research active staff
has been fundamental in increasing research capability and is also supported by several
initiatives from the University. In 2015 the department launched a Research Initiative Fund
to directly provide seed-corn funding for pilot research projects within our core research
areas. This funding was available to all staff within the unit up to £5,000 per FTE per year.
This has directly led to staff securing active collaborations and external research funding.
For example, Dr Appiah has used this money to establish a research group investigating
photochemical-modulated signalling pathways supporting four PhD students, one of whom
has now successfully completed. This group is also actively collaborating with researchers
at the Department of Biochemistry, Genetics, and Microbiology at the University of Pretoria,
South Africa. In addition, staff have attended a series of research support workshops by the
University Impact Officer to identify impact and focussing research to achieve it.

To maximise staff research potential, we ensure that these initiatives are undertaken in a
way that reinforces equality, diversity and inclusivity. These are core values across the
University. Indeed, they are enshrined within our values; ‘we act fairly, with integrity, respect
and purpose’. Staff members in our UoA play leading roles in the four university-wide
equalities forums (LGBT+, Race Religion and Belief, Disability and Gender) and several
networks (e.g., The Race Network) which provide a supportive and safe environment for all
staff. For example, staff in our unit of assessment are members of the University- Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion working group, the steering group of the University Race forum and
the University Race Charter Self-Assessment team. In addition, a grassroots group,
HAREDIN (Healthcare Academic Race Equality and Diversity Inclusivity Network) emerged
as a staff response to the need to improve diversity within the University, along with a sister
group for students, SHAREDIN. These groups have organised a series of seminars aimed
at staff and nursing undergraduate students, a significant proportion of whom are from
BAME backgrounds. The University’s Equality and Diversity Policy is monitored at the
highest level and overseen by the Academic Board and Board of Governors. In relation to
research, the University REF Equality and Diversity Panel ensures this policy is followed in
all matters relating to the REF. All staff involved in our unit submission have completed
mandatory training in equality, diversity and unconscious bias.

Strengthening collaborative links (internal and external)
We have made numerous collaborative links with institutions within the UK and Worldwide.
This is ably demonstrated in our research outputs where 88% of our published peer-
reviewed research articles include authors from collaborating institutions and there are over
120 collaborating institutions named. However, our external collaborations extend
significantly beyond publication of research articles. Significant research income has been
secured through collaborations with our external partners in academia, industry,
government and international policy makers. These are detailed in section 3 (Collaboration
and contribution to the research base, economy and society).

Our drive to strengthen collaborative links also applies to connections within the University.
These have focussed on the development of collaborations with colleagues within the
faculty (Engineering and Computer Science) and elsewhere. The strength of research
collaborations between different faculties within the University is well demonstrated by the
range of impact case studies that make up our REF submission. In each case the impact
has been achieved following strong and sustained collaborations from different research
areas - most notably between Biomedical Science and Computer Science (Electrical
Impedance Tomography and nanoparticle imaging). Our work on design and advanced
manufacture of patient specific medical implants fits in well with the robotics group within
Computer Science, making use of group expertise in finite element models. Algorithmic
support from Computer Science colleagues has been vital in our development of biosensors
utilising electrical impedance tomography for biomarker detection in developing imaging
devices for targeted drug delivery. Collaborations between Biomedical and Sports Science
have spawned a series of collaborations with external institutions including Saracens
Rugby, British Olympic Fencing and GlaxoSmithKline. Internal collaborations between our
public health and nursing practice have enabled us to assess knowledge of healthcare
support for care workers. This work has been funded jointly by the Burdett Trust for Nursing
and the faculty research initiative fund and our work in this area has resulted in coalescing
of internal and external collaborative links. In pursuing these aims, our strategy was to
significantly increase research funding overall and expand the range of funding sources
(see section 1.1).

1.3 Open Science
Throughout this REF period awareness of the issues surrounding Open Research, including
open access and research data management have increased significantly within the Faculty
of Science and Technology.
Our commitment to Open Science is evidenced from outputs submitted. Within our unit of
assessment 43% of our outputs submitted for REF are published in online open access
journals. The remainder are self-archived within the University Eprints Research Repository.
The Faculty has strongly supported Open Science initiatives including ORCID (Open
Researcher and Contributor ID) registration with all submitted staff registered, and actively
supports open access publication for all 3* and 4* journal publications. This scheme was
highly popular with staff and contributed to our strong citation performance.
We work closely with the Research Support Services team based in the Sheppard Library,
to ensure REF compliance and aid with Open Access publishing via the repository, and in
advocating various issues in open research. The Middlesex University Figshare Repository
for research data is increasingly used by researchers in our unit, demonstrating awareness
of the need to improve research data management practice and make research published
online findable and citable. This repository supports discovery of digital research outputs
beyond traditional research output types and ensures works are discoverable and citable
using digital object identifiers (DOIs).

1.4 Research integrity
The University has a well-established and comprehensive Code of Practice for Research,
enshrining the highest standards of research conduct and integrity. Its principles and
practices are based on the Research Councils’ Statement on Safeguarding Good Scientific
Practice (2000) and the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2012).

Within our Faculty, research integrity is overseen by the RKTE committee and governed
through a departmental Research Ethics Committee (REC) structure. This is chaired by a
senior colleague and supported by a team of trained reviewers. REC approvals are audited
on an annual basis and Chairs report to the University REC which is chaired by a Deputy
Dean. All research projects, including those conducted as assignments within taught
undergraduate and postgraduate modules, must attain approval from a local REC before
commencement of work. All applications are reviewed by up to three reviewers and
researchers must provide evidence of REC approval for assessment of their work. The
governance function of the RECs is underpinned by a secondary educative function to
support integrity in research practice. Students, supervisors and staff who are active in
research all receive access to a wide range of training resources, including bespoke forms
to support applications related to consent and participant information and ‘flipped-
classroom’ training in REC applications supported by tailored training videos on application
processes and ‘key application mistakes - and how to avoid them’. This training is also
embedded within our teaching at undergrauate and all postgraduate levels as well as at
PhD level and includes external presentations from the UK Health Research Authority.
There is a continuing dialogue between the REC, researchers and research students
focussed on streamlining the ethics application process. Applications requiring
resubmission receive detailed written comments from reviewers on the changes needed to
support the reapplication process and develop applicants’ understanding of the
requirements of ethical research practice

1.5 Advancing our research strategy
Under the leadership of our new Vice-Chancellor and British Academy of Management
President, Nic Beech, Middlesex University is currently formulating its ambitious 2031
research strategy with the intention of becoming world leading in Technological Innovation.
The research and impact in this unit will aim to contribute strongly to that mission. In the
next seven years, the foremost goal for our unit will be to build on recent achievements and
current dynamism. We will seek to consolidate and sustain our performance on our key
objectives of further strengthening of our four main research areas, developing even
stronger international collaboration and strengthening our pathways to impact. With the
appointment of the new Academic Dean of the Faculty reflecting a greater focus on research
more broadly within the University, there are plans to use future research income to support
funded PhD studentships and Research Fellows. Our long-term strategy also involves
further development of our multi-disciplinary expertise and profile nationally and
internationally, enabling us to develop innovative proposals for MRC, EPSRC and BBSRC
funding. A feature of our research strategy to date has been our growing and successful
collaboration with numerous industrial partners. We plan to build on this and make more
use of funding streams that support these partnerships, including Innovate UK.

We have identified new areas of research growth that fit well within our existing expertise
including Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Neuroscience. Much of our research fits well with
an interdisciplinary context and therefore suits submission for joint projects between
councils, a development indicative of many recent research calls. This will be achieved
through sustaining our strong leadership and staff development.
Specific indicators to benchmark our progress in achieving these objectives over the next 3
years include:

     •   Continue to increase and diversify sources of external funding, contract research
         funding: target 20% increase in both of amount of funding secured and number of
         funding sources

     •   Attract and inspire new research active staff that complement research aims

     •   Investment in infrastructure to significantly expand existing research facilities, new
         research areas identified and new interdisciplinary collaborations

     •   Increase postgraduate research student recruitment and enhance completion rate by
         increased focus on funding applications that incorporate studentships into funding
         applications and further developing support services for postgraduate students:
         target increase postgraduate student numbers by 20%

     •   Providing leadership and advice on further raising the quality of publication outputs
         and achieve further impact through identification of IP and patents

     •   Setting up a new working group to further improve external research collaboration
         across our unit by actively engaging, monitoring, and sharing and supporting best
         practice

     •   Further promote our research through increased engagement at national and
         international levels by participating and hosting international symposia and
         conferences.
 .

2. People: Staffing strategy and staff development
Staffing strategy
The key objectives of our staffing strategy are to improve the balance of our staff profile, to
develop junior researchers, reinforce our current research groupings, and lay the
foundations for developing new areas. These have been pursued through a combination of
external recruitment and a strong emphasis upon staff development. This strategy is
informed by the basic principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers: to promote an inclusive approach to staff development which enhances
individual and collective research capacities to attract and retain research leaders and junior
staff with high potential; and to promote equality and diversity. Our future strategic
development will be pursued in line with the University’s current formulation of its people
strategy to 2030, entitled “Changing lives – A world class community in a world class
University”.

The strategy for the unit recognises the importance of building research capacity through
investment in both new and existing staff. Since REF 2014 the total number of staff in our
unit has more than doubled from 16 to 33 staff, demonstrating a growth of research-active
staff. In the previous REF period, we made a key appointment in Oncology with Prof Roitt
leading the Centre for Investigative and Diagnostic Oncology. This has led to significant
growth in our research and impact within this area. To sustain and build on this we have
made several new appointments for REF2021 in oncology bringing expertise in ovarian
cancer (Dr Stordal), osteosarcoma (Dr Roberts) and immuno-oncology (Dr Outram).
Additionally, new appointments have been made in neuroscience and in pharmaceutical
chemistry and molecular modelling (Drs Loizidou and Mutter) to build on our collaborative
research within the unit, with colleagues in Computer Science and externally. Since
REF2014 we have also greatly enhanced our research in Public Health as demonstrated by
the recruitment of three new appointments in this area (Drs Di Cesare, Tobi and Aceijas).
This has strengthened our impact in this area as can be seen in our impact case studies.
Our Faculty Director of Research is a member of key academic selection panels and
contributes to all staff promotion applications. This helps to ensure that our people and
development strategy is closely aligned with that of the University.

Staff Development
This strategy is informed by the objectives of enhancing research leadership, retaining and
developing early career researchers (ECRs) and other junior staff. Promotion of equality
and diversity is core to all our activities. We have numerous initiatives that promote these
values and objectives:

(i) Junior Staff and Early Career Researchers
We have strong peer support mechanisms with junior staff and early career researchers
working alongside and being mentored by senior colleagues. All new staff members have a
full induction programme and our unit’s new researchers are allocated a research-active
mentor who supports them with their research development within our existing framework.
This is supported financially through the Faculty Research Initiative Fund (section 1.3). All
staff are embedded within research groups with a designated lead who provides mentoring
and research support. Existing academic staff who wish to further develop as researchers
can take advantage of a University wide mentoring scheme. Through this scheme senior,
experienced researchers provide guidance and advice to less experienced academics
engaged in activities such as grant writing and building collaborative partnerships. New
researchers are also provided with generous time allowances for their research to support
their career development.

(ii) Laboratory Access
Our unit has a strong and passionate commitment to provide ready access to all laboratory
equipment to researchers from a diverse range of disciplines and expertise. For example,
costs of common consumables within each laboratory are met centrally from within the
Faculty. This means that novel studies can be piloted easily. The diversity of access also
prevents equipment being siloed within a specific discipline. For example, cell culture and
mass spectrometry facilities are used by researchers in pharmaceutical chemistry,
environmental science, sports science and biophysics as well as the traditional areas of cell
biology and cancer research. A full programme of hardware and software induction, training
and technical support is provided to facilitate this commitment. In addition, most of the staff’s
class contact is limited to approximately half a calendar year and Heads of Department are
encouraged to configure teaching commitments appropriately to create concentrated time
for research. Our technical staff support the laboratories in specialist areas such as
analytical instrumentation, microbiology, histology and tissue culture, with that number set
to grow as facilities continue to develop. In addition, biomedical science staff have call on
technical staff to support areas such as high-performance computing facilities.

(iii) Career Progression and development
Annual appraisal provides a vehicle for staff to report on research activity and to plan future
research alongside other responsibilities for the coming year. Staff development needs are
considered as part of this, and promotions are made where merited. Our current submission
reflects improved career progression for existing junior staff composed of 9% Lecturers (was
31%), 56% Senior Lecturers (was 31%) and 16% Associate Professors (was 13%) and 12%
Professors (was 25%).

The University and Faculty offer a range of development opportunities for all staff, many of
which are also available to PhD students, including a commitment to support conference
attendance which includes at least one international conference per year. In addition, our
research development programme provides regular training events on all aspects of
research including writing for publication, doctoral supervision, preparing funding
applications, managing research and knowledge transfer projects, and ensuring that
research has impact beyond academia.

To foster an environment that enhances individual and collective research capacities and
career prospects, we also ensure careful management of workloads. All staff in our unit
have permanent academic contracts and academic staff have a 40:40:20 workload ratio of
teaching: research: administration. We aim to ensure that staff get blocks of time for
research where needed. One of the ways this has been achieved is through the creation of
junior posts of graduate academic assistants, technical tutors and student learning
assistants. These posts support staff in their teaching across areas such as laboratory
supervision and providing workshops for support with assignments, but also to act as
research assistants providing ad hoc support. These staff are typically registered for
research degrees, and the University has implemented a new staffing structure that ensures
a career path for them. Within our unit, several of these have advanced their careers through
to Associate Lecturer and full Lectureships.
Our technical team is central to our staffing strategy and new positions of technical tutors
have been established to provide progression opportunities for the technical team and
recruiting new talent. The technical tutor role comprises technical and academic aspects
with the technical tutors also having supporting roles in research.

Research students
Research students are integral to our research community and vital for our research
sustainability. The number of students on PhD and Professional Doctorate programmes has
increased through the current REF period with 22 doctorates awarded compared to 17 for
the REF2014 period. The PhD student body is highly diverse. 51% of our 47 current post
graduate research students are female, and 60% are from Black, Asian and minority ethnic
groups.

Applications for doctoral research programmes are reviewed by the Departmental Research
Degrees Co-ordinator and allocated to match with potential supervisors to subject speciality.
Applications are then reviewed within each speciality and candidates selected based on the
merits of the research proposal and the potential of the applicant to undertake doctoral
research. Doctoral students only undertake research programmes which match current
research strengths and where the quality of supervision can be assured. Supervisors
receive training in candidate selection to ensure fairness to protected characteristics and
undergo a formal training course. The supervisory teams contain those with experience of
successful supervision to completion along with ECRs. This policy of collective supervision
permits the development of supervisory capacities post initial training, broadens the skills
and knowledge available to students, and provides continuity of supervision in cases of
absence or movement of supervisors to other institutions. The Faculty enforces strict limits
on the numbers of students supervised (6) and takes into consideration a supervisor’s
record of accomplishment on time to completion.

The Research degree Co-ordinator and Research Degrees Committee are responsible for
overseeing the quality of the student experience and monitoring progress in six-monthly
formal doctoral progression boards, as well as supervisor/academic advisor selection.
Professional Doctorate students have an academic adviser and may choose to have
additional support from an external consultant, usually from the professional context within
which the student works.

Progression boards are managed by the Faculty Research Degrees Committee (RDC),
alongside more informal monitoring of progress by supervisory teams, ensuring that
problems are identified at an early stage. Students' progress through an early registration
process and then transfer before entering their final year of PhD studies. This provides an
effective channel for communication between students and staff. The University has
procedures to avoid research students being disadvantaged because of ill health or other
circumstances disruptive of their studies. Students can request an interruption to their
studies of up to 12 months.
Postdoctoral completions have increased steadily through the REF period (Table 2).

Table 2: Postdoctoral completions by academic year
 Academic
 year           2014-15     2015-16     2016-17      2017-18 2018-19 2019 -20          Total
 PhD
 completed      1           2           4            2         5          4            18

Our PhD students participate fully in the Faculty’s research culture and are supported in
this. Students are aligned to departments by virtue of the departmental affiliation of their
Director of Studies. Additionally, Middlesex University’s Work and Learning Research
Centre provides additional expertise and support to our Professional Doctorate students.
Our students are accommodated in high quality, dedicated office accommodation shared
on a hot-desking basis, with good computing facilities. These are located close to the
laboratories where they carry out their work and alongside the academic staff who are
supervising them, ensuring close supervision and support. During the recent COVID-19
pandemic the University has provided software permitting remote access to instrument
controlling PCs. This allows students to access, process and analyse research data
remotely when laboratory access is not possible. We endeavour to continue this practice in
the future.

The University runs a research student training programme conforming to the Vitae
framework which promotes researchers’ skills and prepares students for the academic and
professional world. The Faculty runs a tailored Researcher Development Programme for
our doctoral students including a programme of induction for new students and a range of
courses and workshops on topics including learning, teaching and assessment,
employability, research design and integrity, and presentation skills. Attendance at core and
specialist MSc taught masters modules is encouraged. Core elements here are research
design and statistical analysis, literature search and review, research ethics, advanced
bioanalytical techniques and scientific communication. This training enhances their
knowledge and specific skills related to their project and provides wider transferable skills.

All research students attend and contribute to the weekly Departmental research seminars
and weekly journal club and are also present their results at the annual University Research
Student Summer Conference. These provide opportunities to present their research in a
supportive environment and enables students to become familiar with the extensive range
and interdisciplinary nature of research across the University. PhD students from our unit
have been highly successful at our Summer conference with several winning Best
presentation awards. Students are also encouraged to present their research at national
and international conferences to help prepare them for defence of their thesis and to
introduce them to academic networks. Internal funding is available to enable them to attend
up to two external conferences during their PhD studies.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
Equality, diversity and inclusion are core Middlesex values, both in the University and in our
unit. Middlesex was the first UK university to receive Corporate Gold/Embedded Charter
Mark from UK Investor in Equality & Diversity. We have robust arrangements to ensure
equality of opportunity. Maternity and paternity leave, flexible working to accommodate
family, health or other circumstances, and a commitment to reintegrate staff on their return
to work, are all supported by policies. Staff benefit from the University’s sabbatical policy,
entitling them to be considered for a 12-month break for every seven years of service,
although the Faculty usually facilitates breaks less formally through careful workload
management. The University has high retention rates after maternity, paternity and adoption
leave. In our unit, three of our academics have been on paternity or maternity leave. Family-
friendly policies with initiatives supporting remote and flexible working are reflected in our
staff development programme. Staff often worked from home several days per week and
key meetings are being held between 10am-4pm to allow staff with children to drop off and
collect from childcare. This support has been critical during the COVID-19 pandemic where
all staff were working from home and many had caring and home-schooling responsibilities
for children.
We have a fully transparent processes for research funding applications, access to internal
funds, conference attendance, sabbaticals and training. We operate with standard workload
models in which research and practice allowances are allocated transparently on a yearly
basis, based on past performance and credible work plans. All staff can view the annual
work programmes of colleagues within the unit.
Staff within our unit are engaged in promoting diversity at a high level within the University.
Dr Bell is a key member of the University Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Committee which
shapes, informs, develops and implements planning and policy on equality, diversity and
inclusion for the University. Dr Bell also played a key role in organising Middlesex University
International Women’s Day. This annual event showcases the huge contribution made by
women across the University and encourages staff and students to make their pledge for
gender parity. Dr Stordal is a member of the University Athena SWAN self-assessment
team (SAT) which identifies and implements necessary actions to improve gender equality
at Middlesex. Dr Appiah is a member of the University Race forum steering group and the
Race Charter Self-Assessment Team. Our academics participate in the various Staff
Equalities Fora. These fora have been reviewed and are now constituted as Equalities
Networks, including Race, Interfaith, LGBT+, Gender, Disability, and Carers.

Equality, diversity and inclusion in the REF submission
Our commitment to equality and diversity which informs our extensive programme of staff
development is reflected in our REF submission. 53% of our submitted staff are female and
31% of academics within our unit have a BAME background. This is fully represented in our
outputs for REF2021. The selection of publication outputs was conducted by a REF UoA
Panel composed of five members. It included two professorial members, three mid-career
researchers and one early career researcher. Three of the five members were female and
two were from a BAME background. The selection process for outputs was fully transparent
whereby staff were asked to nominate their top-5 publications based on REF quality criteria.
Staff could draw on other criteria to evidence the quality of their outputs and were explicitly
encouraged to do so.
To encourage transparency and inclusivity, staff in the unit were asked to identify and rank
their best outputs and supply a short statement of justification. Their assessment was based
on the originality, significance and rigour of each output. Staff with relevant expertise within
the unit reviewed outputs and provided a score against criteria above. Significant
divergence was discussed with staff individually. The numerous resources and strategies
(outlined above) that we have put in place to support our research illustrates that most staff
had many high-quality outputs to choose from.
3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Income over the census period has been £4.5m received from EU, UK government bodies,
health authorities, hospital authorities, charities and industrial partners. The consistent
funding received from these bodies is a testament to the success of our approach and our
focus on areas of research that are important to them and their beneficiaries. This
represents an income of £123K for each FTE in this unit of assessment. Prof Bayford and
Dr Bardill have been highly successful in securing funding for several projects; in 2016
Prof Bayford was awarded £898K from the EU for Continuous Regional Analysis Device
for neonate Lung (CRADL) to develop the use of Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT)
to monitor lung function to reduce morbidity and mortality in pre-term neonates due to lung
failure. In 2020, Prof Bayford and Dr Bardill received a £773 K from EPSRC for Preterm
Neonatal Embedded Universal Microelectronic Wearable Acquisition for Cardiorespiratory
Intensive Therapy (PNEUMACRIT). This was a continuation of the CRADL project. In 2018
Prof Bayford was a recipient of £250,000 award for the Bright Ideas call by EPSRC to
develop the use of EIT and nanoparticles to track drugs in the body. Prof Shah was
awarded £60K in 2019 to develop a strategy for enhanced analysis of the glycoprotein from
Partnership for Clean Competition. Prof Shah also received an in-kind donation of £250K
from Applied Surface Technologies Analytics in 2017 to support development of MALDI-
TOF MS (Mass Spectrometer) hardware and software. The instrument was accessible to
groups at Royal Free, Kings College London and University of East London. In addition,
Prof Shah and Dr Hills received £10K income from contract research work over the
assessment period. Dr Roberts was awarded £10K in 2017 by the Bone Cancer Research
Trust for project MicroRNA regulation of autophagy-induced chemoresistance in
osteosarcoma, £9K from the PetPlan Charitable Trust in 2018 to investigate
chemoresistance in canine osteosarcoma, and has recently been awarded £87K from the
osteosarcoma charity Hannah’s Willberry Wonder Pony to investigate the role of the bone
microenvironment in metastasis. In 2017 Dr Di Cesare was awarded £49K by The Academy
of Medical Sciences Springboard - Health of the Public 2040 Award. She also received £28K
in funding in 2018 from Imperial College London for Inter-institutional collaboration
Inequalities in cardiovascular risk factors. Recently, Dr Di Cesare was awarded £2.8M for
a study to detect SARS-CoV-2 virus in the wastewater of schools to provide a useful early
warning system of infection levels and 'Healthcare assistants’ knowledge, attitudes and
experiences of preventing pressure ulcers: a mixed method study'. Funder: Burdett Trust
for Nursing Grant. PI, (£8,540). Dr. Li was awarded £22K from the British Council to work
on Design and advanced manufacturing of patient-specific implant. The diversity of income
sources demonstrates the range of domestic and international collaborative links with
industrial, academic, charities, health, and public policy bodies.

Infrastructure and Facilities
The interdisciplinary Natural Science Research Facility comprises of laboratories that are
devoted to cell culture, microbiology, bioengineering, general biomedical, analytical,
synthetic chemistry, and a core mass spectrometry laboratory.
In addition to the investment in laboratories resulting from shared facilities (section 1.3) the
University has made a significant investment during the current REF period in expanding
the infrastructure and facilities that specifically support our research. Several new
laboratories have been built to support expanding research in several areas. The University
has invested in a fully equipped additional cell culture laboratory to support the growing
need for in vitro studies for several fields of research. A new microbiology research
laboratory has been built to support and facilitate the growing number of projects in this
area. The laboratory is fully equipped for culturing, preparing, and storing microorganisms.
Investment has also been made in building a purpose built molecular biology suite. In
addition to these new facilities an existing laboratory has been expanded to provide space
for synthetic and preparative chemistry. This now provides the infrastructure to synthesise,
purify, and carry out structural characterisation work. Existing space has been converted to
house a confocal microscope. All projects within our multidisciplinary research environment
can access resources available within our laboratories. Specialist facilities purchased within
the current REF period include a recently purchased confocal microscope (£177K), a
Biosciences Cell Analyser (£52K), bench top nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer
(£60K) and Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (£30K). The University has also
invested in its health science research unit and purchased a material testing unit (£50K)
and cardio-pulmonary exercise testing – gas exchange analysis system (£45K). In the
previous assessment period, the University has made considerable investment in mass
spectrometry equipment including purchasing an LC-MS (£125K) and MALDI-TOF-MS
(£335K). These core resources have been utilised for many existing and new projects. This
includes the development and application of methods for qualitative and quantitative
analysis of biomolecules in a diverse range of sample types. The MALDI-TOF instrument
has also been used for characterisation of clinical and environmental strains of
microorganisms and for detection of antibiotic resistance both in house and by our
collaborators from Kings College London, Public Health England, University of East London
and Tokyo Women's Medical University. To complement the existing chromatography and
spectroscopy facilities further investment has been made to extend the analytical
instrumentation which include a capillary HPLC with Q Exactive high resolution mass
spectrometer (£300K). This instrument has been used in numerous proteomics studies to
investigate protein expression, regulation, function and post-translational modifications
such as glycosylation. This has also led to collaborative work with the Institute of Neurology,
University of London, Kings College London and University of East London. Recently a
HPLC with triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (£200K), HPLC with diode array detection
(£30K) was added to the suite of mass spectrometers. Investment has also been made to
replace equipment that was damaged or past its useful date (£230K). These investments
have provided support for a wide range of internal and collaborative projects. They have
also provided opportunity to embark on new projects, foster new collaborations and apply
to more funding calls.
Our close collaboration with the London Sports Institute and Saracens Rugby has allowed
some of our research facilities to be accommodated at the Allianz Park stadium as part of
the £22.9 million development of the West Stand. This investment will facilitate further and
closer collaborations.
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

In the current REF period we have extended and increased research collaboration within
the University and externally, with academic, industrial and health care partners, including
the NHS, which forms a central tenet of our research strategy. Our researchers now have
a well-established partnership with colleagues in Computer Science which has been
fundamental in developing algorithms for the medical imaging technology that we have
developed. From this, we have established effective collaborative research with partners
at University College London and Dartmouth College in the USA for the application of this
technology. We have also established collaborative links with several industrial partners
based on this research. This includes Printed Electronics Ltd and Emergex Ltd. Similarly,
internal collaboration underpins work to investigate the use of nanoparticles as targeted
treatment/delivery agents with the team working with Midatech, a biotechnology company
translating its proprietary gold nanoparticle drug delivery platform into nanomedicines. As a
result of this work, a bioimpedance device has been developed which produces real-time
data of clinical relevance. Pilot data suggests that it is able to discriminate between benign
and malignant tissue and clinical trials are planned.

Our collaborations also extend to other applications including virus detection. Currently we
are engaged in a research project supported by the Royal Society UK in collaboration with
Leicester University and Nanjing University of Science & Technology for Human
papillomavirus virus detection using super-resolution microscopy and deep learning. This
collaboration aims to develop and launch a novel, rapid and non-invasive method for
screening and monitoring specific virus-related diseases for early diagnosis and
management.
We are working with several hospital departments to identify novel glycan biomarkers for
the prediction of pre-eclampsia. Our partners here include Kings College London, University
of Auckland and Iduron Ltd. As a result of this collaboration we have identified a series of
candidate biomarkers which show good specificity and sensitivity (PPV>60%). We are
currently filing patents for these and arranging large scale studies to validate these
promising results. We are also utilising our expertise in glycan research in a collaboration
with the University of East Anglia and University of Oxford to identify the role of specific
glycans in immunomodulation. Our glycan research also extends to examining potential
glycan biomarkers to identify cancers at an early stage which we do in partnership with the
University of Poznan and Maria Sklodowska-Curie Institute – Oncology Center. Indeed, we
collaborate widely on a range of cancer projects. Our researchers are working with Imperial
College, the University of Glasgow, The University of Adelaide and University of Dublin on
a project aimed at discovering novel biomarkers that will identify patients who later will
develop resistance to first line chemotherapy drugs for ovarian cancer treatment. As a result
of this work we have characterised a resistance profile for ovarian cancer tissue from over
250 patients and identified candidate biomarkers that show unique expression in
chemoresistant cancers. This ongoing exchange means that we are now a centre of
excellence in several research areas including models of chemoresistance in cancer and
clinical applications of mass spectrometry and electrical impedance tomography.
Our unit also leads two projects with Queen Mary University of London and the London
Spinal Cord Injury Centre, Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital aimed at identifying early
detection and intervention methods for pressure ulcer prevention in people living with spinal
cord injury. Researchers in our unit are also engaged extensively in work with Public Health
England in several key areas. These include identification of mechanisms of antibiotic
resistance, novel methods for detection of norovirus in clinical samples and variation in
bacterial species from different clinical units across the UK. As a result of the work on
antibiotic resistance we have identified a means of rapidly detecting peptide produced
MRSA that can be used to identify strains of Staphylococcus aureus that are methicillin
resistant.

Other ongoing cancer research collaborations include work with the 1st Affiliated Hospital
of Harbin Medical School (China) on arsenic trioxide as a treatment for HPV-correlated
cancers (Drs Wen and Ghali). New collaborations between Middlesex and two
pharmaceutical companies (Life Science Group and Proxima Concepts) were established
based on developing a patented orally delivered HPV vaccine (Roitt and Wen). Further
collaborations with University Rey Juan Carlos of Madrid and the Institute of Odontology at
Goteborg University and in association with Proxima Concepts also extended to projects on
synthesizing biomolecules to target hCG secreting cancers and HPV associated cancers
(Prof Bayford, Drs Outram and Wen).

Within the area of Global Public Health we collaborate extensively and widely. Researchers
in our unit are members of the NCD Risk Factors Collaboration and the Global
Environmental Health Centre and have worked with the International Agency for Cancer
Research Working Group (IARC-WHO) to evaluate links between diet and cancer, the
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean – United Nations to investigate
regional trends in adolescent fertility. Dr Di Cesare is also a member of the Global Nutrition
Report’s Independent Expert Group which works to hold national stakeholders to account
on their commitments towards tackling malnutrition worldwide and a member of the World
Heart Federation Emerging Leaders 2018 Programme. As a result of this work, Di Cesare
and colleagues presented their Global Nutrition Report to the United Nations-supported
2019 Scaling Up Nutrition Global Gathering and this report is now used by WHO to monitor
progress for the global nutrition targets 2025. In addition, Dr Di Cesare has also coordinated
a collaboration of partners worldwide to improve the availability of treatments for atrial
fibrillation. This collaboration has led directly to the successful inclusion of non-vitamin K
anticoagulants (NOACs) for the treatment of non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), into the
2019 WHO Model List of Essential Medicines (EML).

Support for our collaborations
The faculty supports research collaborations, partnerships and public engagement with
research across the different layers. Overall leadership for research and collaboration
comes from our Research Director Prof Richard Comley and is supported by our Deputy
Dean for Research Prof Balbir Barn. Between them they have many years of research
leadership experience at a high level. At a unit level, senior researchers provide dedicated
support in relation to our research themes. Within each research theme senior and mid-
career researchers provide leadership to develop collaborative, interdisciplinary and
relevant research areas. Research groups hold regular meetings to discuss their research
and exchange research ideas. Staff increasingly work across these themes in the pursuit
of interdisciplinary research. A staffing strategy that combines expanded research activity
by existing staff combined with the arrival of new highly research active staff has led to
significant strengthening of all these thematic groups.

Open data
Middlesex University is committed to an open data environment. This is evident from
activities in our unit of assessment. As part of our bioimaging research we contributed to
the largest freely available data store for EIT clinical data (>50TBytes), the Electrical
Impedance Tomography and Diffuse Optical Tomography Reconstruction Software
(EIDORS public domain tool, eidors3d.sourceforge.net/). This has been utilised
internationally in the development of imaging solutions to clinical problems including for
neonatal lung function analysis as detailed in one of our impact case studies.
We have led the development of the freely available World Health Organisation metabolic
risk factor database for non-communicable diseases. This is part of the WHO Global Health
Observatory used by governments and other international organisations for health policy
development in assessing the effectiveness of disease prevention worldwide. In addition,
we regularly use our research data to update publically available gene databases including
GenBank.

Engagement with society
Each year we work with thousands of school students across the country, delivering
activities, talks and events designed to increase understanding of higher education study,
research and career opportunities. We do this in many ways. Every year Middlesex
University hosts the MDXSTEM festival. This event welcomes school children and the local
community to the exciting world of science at our University. In 2018, staff and PhD students
attended Thorpe Park for its first ever Middlesex Science Week with over 20 STEM activities
for school children from across London. We have also been leading a yearly event called
“Mayor of Enfield Science Award 201X - Biology Challenge” since 2016 in collaborating with
schools from Enfield borough.

Each year, our researchers are involved in New Scientist Live, an event which introduces
children and adults to the wonders of University science. We are passionate about
promoting Women into Science within our local community and are involved in many
activities in this area. For example, in May 2019 staff presented at the Women in Science
Careers Event at Queen Elizabeth’s School Barnet. In the same year we hosted an
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry Women’s breakfast events to engage
and expand their networks. In March 2020 we hosted our Biomedical Science International
Week. We hosted 30 staff and students from 4 Universities across Europe. The aim was to
facilitate short-term student mobility between partner institutions to improve the students’
teamwork as well as language and cross cultural and communication skills.

Professional Engagement
External Engagement
The University is supportive of staff engaging with the wider scientific community, and
facilitates such engagement with resources, viewing this as a strategic priority for staff at all
levels. Several members of submitted staff hold Visiting Lecturer positions at other
institutions, including University College London (Prof Roitt - Emeritus Professor, Prof
Bayford – honorary Senior Lecturer, Dr Outram – honorary Associate Professor), Imperial
College (Prof Dilworth - Honorary Reader, Dr Hills and Dr Casimir, Honorary Senior
Lecturer) and Prof Shah-King’s College London-Honorary Associate Professor). Staff also
regularly examine PhDs at other institutions within the UK and overseas including Imperial
College, University College London, City University of London, Kingston University, the
University of Leeds, University of Sheffield, and Queens’s University of Belfast amongst
others.

Unit members have been invited to deliver key presentations at international conferences
and symposia. These include keynote lectures at the University of Cambridge, Nanjing
University of Science & Technology and the European Conference of Paediatric & Neonatal
Mechanical Ventilation and at the Shanghai International Congress on Orthopaedic
Advanced Techniques and Clinical Translational Research. We have also given television
interviews about our research. For example, Prof Bayford was interviewed by a German
National Science TV programme to talk about the impacts from our nanotechnology projects
by using novel imaging detection system on international industrial and research
communities. In addition, Dr Di Cesare has given many interviews on national and
international radio and television about our work fighting childhood and adult obesity. For
example, on BBC World, BBC Radio 5 live, CTV news and La Republica (2017).

Staff in our unit (Prof Shah) have co-hosted, in partnership with Public Health England,
several international conferences and workshops held at Middlesex University on
Proteomics and Genomics. In addition, we have organized a China-UK joint workshop with
Dalian University and Southwest Jiaotong University in China on design surgical implants.

Internal engagement
Our research environment is strengthened through regular seminars to allow our staff to
engage with students to exchange and develop ideas. A Biomedical Science Journal club
runs weekly allowing the staff of UoA3 and their PhD students to share knowledge on a
recent journal article. Our weekly departmental seminar series features regular contributions
from our staff and from outside institutions. Recent key collaborators who have presented
include Dr. Tammaryn Lashley from University College London, Andy West, Head of
Imaging at GlaxoSmithKine (Prof Shah) and Prof Janice Aldrich-Wright from the University
of Western Sydney (Dr Stordall). We have integrated these activities into our teaching
timetable to enable staff and MSc students to attend. A strategic aim of the unit has been
to develop collaborations through the exchange of research students. Through the Erasmus
programme we have developed exchange partnerships with Uppsala University (Dr Hills),
the University of Lund (Sweden) and the University of Kiel (Dr Ring).

Engagement with Professional bodies
Submitted staff also make recognised contributions to the discipline through learned
societies, professional associations and other bodies. These include: Prof Roitt - elected
Fellow of the Royal Society and a Fellow of Balliol College, Oxford; Prof Bayford – Fellow
of the Institute of Physics, Institute of Physics, Engineering and Medicine, and the Society
of Biology; Dr Appiah – Fellow of Royal Society of Chemistry; a member of Royal society
of Biology; Prof Dilworth – member of the European Association for Cancer Research,
British Cell Biology Society and American Society for Microbiology (ASM); Prof Shah –
Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry and the Chromatographic Society, Drs Wen and
D.Li – member of the European Association for Cancer Research ; Dr Casimir - member
of the British Society for Gene Therapy; Dr Hills Member of the Biochemical Society.

Journal Editorships
Professor Bayford is Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Physiological Measurements, and co-
Editor of Physiological Measurements special editions on EIT, as well as being a member
of the Editorial Board of the International Journal of Biomedical Imaging. Prof Roitt is on
the Editorial Board of Current Opinion in Immunology, Dr Wen for the Journal of Fertilization:
In vitro. Dr Di Cesare is associate editor of the International Journal of Public Health, Notas
de Poblacion and Revista Economía de la Salud-Chile.
Grant review
Staff also contribute regularly to peer-review of funding applications submitted to UK
research funding agencies (e.g. EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC, STFC, NIHR), UK charities (e.g.
Wellcome Trust, Action Medical Research) or other funding bodies throughout Europe and
beyond. In addition, a member of our unit (Prof Bayford) is an ESPRC College member.
Others are grant reviewers for Research Executive Agency (EU) for Academy of Medical
Sciences (Prof Dilworth) as well as for MRC, Children with Cancer UK, and the Bone
Cancer Research Trust (Dr Roberts).

In summary, by utilising our diverse research base we have had an enormous impact. Our
strategy moving forward focusses on our unique strengths and will certainly ensure a
sustainable future for our unit and its capacity to solve important global problems. We have
evidence of this already. After our submission to the current REF our unit (Drs Di Cesare
and Burczynska) has been awarded funding for a £2.8M multi-centre study to detect
SARS-CoV-2 virus in the wastewater of schools to provide an early warning system of
infection levels. This endeavour involves many UK partners including Test and Trace’s Joint
Biosecurity Centre, University of Bath, Imperial College London, and The London Assembly
Health Committee. The study has begun collecting evidence on the safety of schools
reopening and additional insights on transmission of coronavirus from children-to-children
and children-to-adults. As part of the same project we are leading a pilot study with Her
Majesty’s Prison & Probation Service (HMPPS) of this approach in prisons, to improve
health outcomes of prisoners, staff and the public. We have currently provided evidence of
the feasibility of this approach in schools and based on our work the DHSC is currently
embedding wastewater surveillance in schools into the national wastewater surveillance.
Data collected and analysed in prisons are currently used by HMPPS to identify outbreaks
and trigger mass testing in UK prisons.
