Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  1.1 Overview
  We have delivered fully on our 2014-2021 Research and Impact strategy, with notable
  achievements including:
  ●   A positive shift in working culture, underpinned by our values-led Research Strategy (§1.2)
      and indicated, for example, by an increased proportion of international staff (37% now,
      versus 18% during REF2014) and an Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2017;
  ●   Increasing the number and gender balance of our post-doctoral (104 in total since 2014, of
      whom 44% are women) and post-graduate (63 at July 2020, of whom 63% are women)
      researchers. Doctorate awards also grew substantially, from 34.4 (REF2014) to 75.45
      during REF2021 (§2.3);
  ●   Strong growth in our research income (£5.0M/yr in 2019/20 cf. £2.6M/yr in 2013/14). With
      a total income of £27.4M during REF2021, we now rank within the top 5 UK geography
      departments on this measure (§3.1);
  ●   With significant charitable funding (>£10M of awards from the Bill and Melinda Gates
      Foundation alone), the WorldPop Project has developed into a major initiative that
      develops and applies innovative methods for improving the spatial demographic evidence
      base in low- and middle-income countries;
  ●   The publication of influential outputs with a global reach. Across 942 outputs during the
      period 2014-2019, 65% have international collaborators (cf. 53% during REF2014) and
      28% fall within the top 10th citation percentile (Scopus, August 2020);
  ●   The expansion of the reach of our impactful research, with new work in the Global South
      now complementing our ongoing work elsewhere across the globe, as reflected in our
      Impact Case Studies and the breadth and quality of our societal engagement more
      generally (§4.3).
  As part of a 2018 institutional restructure (see REF5a, p2) we sought and succeeded in
  bringing in Environmental Sciences staff formerly based in the Faculty of Engineering (see
  §2.1), strengthening our work on sustainability. This merger created the School of Geography
  and Environmental Science (SoGES) in place of the former Department of Geography. At the
  census date, SoGES now comprises 40.42 FTE (headcount 44; 13F 31M) Category A staff, 37
  (18F 19M) post-doctoral researchers (PDRAs) and 63 (40F 23M) research students (PGRs).
  Our submission includes four Independent Researchers (IRs): Holland, Shengjie Lai, Lazar
  and Utazi; two others (Ruktanonchai and Sorichetta) transitioned to permanent lecturer roles
  during the assessment period (§2.1.2, §2.2).
  A Director of Research coordinates the activities of our Research Clusters, GeoData, and the
  Graduate School. Each Cluster (Figure 1) is aligned with specialisations that connect to global
  research agendas (§1.2.1), as well as with the University Strategic Research Groups (USRGs)
  and multi-disciplinary Institutes (REF5a, p2; §1.2.2). All staff belong to one Cluster; many are
  members of more, reflecting their cross-cutting interests.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 1. (a) SoGES Research Clusters. Italicised text indicates staff associated with multiple
  Clusters. IR = Independent Researcher; (b) SoGES interactions (based on joint awards since
  2014) across University of Southampton.



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
  The outcomes of our 2014-2021 Research and Impact Strategy are listed below as a set of
  achievements, but in §1.2.2 we also frame them as a set of values about how we do research.
  It is enacting these values that provides a sustainable enabling context for our successes;
  consequently, we return to certain themes throughout. For example, our commitment to a
  culture of care is reflected in: supportive mentoring, collegiality, and equality of opportunity (§2);
  the ways we co-produce work with collaborators and engage with research participants,
  stakeholders and end-users; and our commitments to the broader discipline (§3 and §4).
  Indeed, this positive culture afforded some resilience during the challenging latter months of the
  review period. During this time our priority was, and remains, to support colleagues’ (especially
  postdoctoral staff and PGRs) wellbeing while refocusing some research to aid the response to
  the Covid-19 pandemic (§2.2, §3.1 and §4.3).
  1.2.1 Achievement of Strategic Aims
  Economy, Society and Governance (ESG) focuses on economic geography; politics and the
  state; migration; feminist geography; and entrepreneurship and creative labour. The
  appointments of Hracs, Reuschke and Vullnetari enabled ESG to deepen its economic
  geography expertise while expanding its interests to include the creative economy and
  migration. Awards from the ERC and ESRC supported new projects on Anti-Politics (Clarke),
  advanced manufacturing and spatial rebalancing (Sunley), home-working, entrepreneurship
  and self-employment (Reuschke), alongside ongoing research on gender, care and migration
  in post-communist societies (Vullnetari), gendered labour and creative work (Reimer), and
  curation in creative industries (Hracs).
  Environmental Change and Sustainability (ECaS) works on global environmental change, its
  impacts on ecosystem services, biodiversity, food security, and associated human responses.
  The appointments of Sheffield and Eigenbrod enabled ECaS to deepen its work on the
  ‘nexus’ of energy, food and water insecurity, encompassing ecosystem services, environmental
  sustainability, and poverty alleviation. Significant projects include Eigenbrod’s ERC Starting
  grant on ecosystem services, Sheffield’s (with Dash and Wright) GCRF-GROW BRECcIA
  project on water and food security in sub-Saharan Africa, and Tompkins’ (with Hutton) IDRC-
  funded Deltas, Vulnerability and Change: Migration and Adaptation project. ECaS has also
  continued its Newton-funded work on vegetation phenology and climate-smart agriculture
  (Dash).
  Landscape Dynamics and Ecology (LDE) focuses on palaeo-environmental reconstruction
  and global change, geomorphology, and the relationships between climate, ecosystem
  dynamics and land surface systems. With the appointment of Lazarus, LDE extended its scope
  to coastal systems, delivering on a long-held strategic goal. Awards from NERC (BLUEcoast
  Highlight Topic) and the Leverhulme Trust are supporting work on inter-tidal zone biogenic
  roughness (Leyland) and over-wash deposits (Lazarus). This coastal focus complements
  LDE’s long-standing research on fluvial systems with, for example, NERC and BBSRC-GCRF
  projects supporting Darby and Leyland’s work on sediment fluxes in Asian mega-rivers.
  Supported by a new facility (§3.3), LDE also developed its environmental sensing capability,
  with major papers on cryospheric environments by Hart based on a NERC Internet of Things
  sensing project, and Leyland’s pioneering use of mobile laser scanning to discriminate
  roughness. A NERC/NSF project (Nield) is investigating aeolian dunes using laser scanning
  and innovative refractive index matching. The appointment of Nogué further developed LDE’s


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  molecular work on palaeo-environmental change, with the creation of the UK’s first sedimentary
  ancient DNA (sedaDNA) laboratory (§3.3) also supporting a major AHRC project (Brown and
  Langdon) and Edwards’ work on past ecosystems. LDE further benefited from a new tephra
  extraction laboratory, resulting in papers identifying new tephras (Hughes, Langdon), and
  enhanced its socio-ecological systems research with key outputs (Dearing and Langdon)
  developing the concept of regional safe operating spaces.
  Population, Health and Wellbeing (PHeW) specialises in spatial analysis of census and
  population data, geographies of care and wellbeing, and human and planetary health
  geography. PHeW recorded major successes in its work on time-space population geographies
  and future population estimation, through Martin’s deputy directorship of the £13.7M ESRC
  Administrative Data Research Centre for England (ADRC-E) and Martin and Cockings’
  ESRC-funded Pop24/7 project. Major charitable funding has enabled the WorldPop Project
  (Tatem, Shengjie Lai, Ruktanonchai, Sorichetta and Utazi) to develop innovative spatial
  demographic datasets and apply them to support global development and health applications.
  PHeW also developed its work on care and wellbeing, with the appointment of Wilkinson,
  whose ESRC Future Research Leaders Fellowship supported research on young adults and
  housing benefit reform, complementing Power’s ESRC- and NIHR-funded research on welfare
  and disabilities, and Roe’s Wellcome Collaborative Award to investigate farm and laboratory
  animal welfare. The group’s health-related work also continues to excel, with Smith’s
  appointment driving significant support from Public Health England (with Moon) and NIHR for
  spatial health inequalities work, Roe’s EPSRC-funded infection prevention research, Wright’s
  MRC-funded water-borne and zoonotic disease work in sub-Saharan Africa, and Roe’s AHRC-
  funded work on protein diets addressing planetary health.
  Alongside the four Clusters, GeoData is an applied research and enterprise group that
  addresses social and environmental challenges, focusing on food and water security, poverty
  alleviation and climate change adaptation (e.g., GeoData supported the UN FAO in delivering a
  Turkish Ministry of Agriculture programme on climate smart agriculture). GeoData has
  particular expertise in capacity development and Open Research (§1.2.2) and contributed to
  two (ICS-1 and ICS-2) of our Impact Case Studies (ICS).

  1.2.2 Research and Impact Environment and Culture
  Below we outline the six values (intellectual achievement; thinking space; collaboration; impact;
  open research; research integrity) of our Research and Impact Strategy; although introduced in
  discrete sub-sections, in reality these strongly interweave.
  i. Prioritising Intellectual Achievement
  We encourage staff to: extend their ambitions; take the risks necessary to pursue agenda-
  shaping work; and prioritise intellectual achievement. These emphases are reflected in
  changes to appraisal processes (§2.1.1) that now prioritise quality over quantity of work and
  strategic objective setting over longer (3+ years) timescales than the annual objectives used
  before. The success of this approach is evidenced in: (i) the growing visibility and reach of our
  outputs, as indicated by the numbers of articles in interdisciplinary journals (e.g., 23% of our
  selected outputs are in PNAS, Science or Nature group journals; cf. 6% at REF2014); (ii)
  winning larger awards (mean value >£121k, cf. £64k in REF2014; §3.1); and (iii) the quality of
  postgraduate research, as reflected in improved completion times and career destinations
  (§2.3).



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  ii. Space for Thinking
  We promote equitable workload management and offer generous sabbatical provision (§2.1.1),
  ensuring all colleagues have time to think and write. Intellectual exchange is fostered by
  discourse within and between Research Clusters (e.g., through research away days and writing
  retreats, cross-cluster seminars and reading groups). The Clusters also foster connections
  between visitors, established and early career staff and research students, as well as
  promoting exchanges, mentoring and collaborations (see below and §4.1).
  iii. Encouraging Collaboration
  We work with other leading individuals and institutions, to enhance our visibility and
  internationalise the intellectual content and impact of our work. This is reflected in the number
  and quality of collaborations with researchers (§4.1) and end-users (§4.3), and the international
  reach of our publications (§1.1) and ICS. We promote collaboration by:
  Engaging with the University Strategic Research Groups (USRGs) and University Strategic
  Interdisciplinary Institutes (USIRIs) (REF5a, pp7-8), which enable interdisciplinary synergies for
  tackling global challenges. SoGES staff play leading roles in the Autonomous Systems
  (Leyland) and Network for Anti-Microbial Resistance and Infection Prevention (Roe) USRGs.
  These have enabled successes including the NERC BLUEcoast project (with 5 UK Universities,
  plus BGS, NOC and HR Wallingford), the EPSRC/NERC NEXUSS CDT (with UEA, Heriot-
  Watt, BAS and NOC), the EPSRC ‘Bridging the Gap’ AMR network, and the Wellcome-funded
  Animal Research Nexus network.
  Building on our intellectual strengths (§1.2.1), and facilitated by targeted hires (e.g.,
  Schaafsma, Sheffield), we have leveraged opportunities afforded by the Global Challenges
  Research Fund. Together with our overseas partners we have won GCRF awards worth
  >£3.4M (§3.1), working with 30 overseas universities in 16 nations and with partners including
  Chatham House, UN FAO, UNDP, and the Stockholm Environment Institute. We are careful to
  ensure all our ODA work is co-designed and co-produced in equitable partnerships driven by
  real end-user needs (see vi. Research Integrity, below), providing a significant and sustainable
  means of delivering our aspirations around internationalisation and societal impact.
  Promoting capacity building via GeoData and WorldPop’s CPD programmes, and GCRF
  projects. For example, WorldPop delivered training on data use at UNFPA headquarters in
  New York; via UN regional workshops for heads of statistical offices; and by means of in-
  country sessions, with cohorts trained to deliver future training to governments. Importantly, we
  view our capacity building activities as a long-term investment in our research ecosystem,
  intersecting with other dimensions of our strategy, notably Impact and Open Research.
  GeoData have developed a global network of clients (>650 since 2014, including OECD, UN
  FAO, IUCN) who often subsequently become co-producers, funders and end-users of our
  research. For example, following geospatial data training, the Ghana Statistical Service funded
  the development of GIS tools to aid enumeration area design for the 2021 Ghana national
  census; these tools are also now supporting census planning by the World Bank in Zambia.
  iv. Societal Impact
  SoGES’ Impact Champion coordinates impact activity, supports funding bids, and shares good
  practice. We also engage with institutional units (Public Policy|Southampton and the Public
  Engagement with Research unit (PERu); REF5a, pp9-10) that support impact delivery and the
  production and dissemination of policy briefs.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  We make extensive use of Southampton’s Impact Acceleration Accounts, with 16 (10F 6M PIs)
  awards since 2014, for activities including work with the Food Standards Agency on anti-
  microbial resistance in food supply chains, and on using GIS to optimise aid disbursement in
  Nepal. Seven other impact-enabling awards (2F 5M) were made through Southampton’s GCRF
  Strategic Development Fund.
  Two groups within SoGES have considerable expertise in developing impact, and these act as
  ‘beacons of excellence’ to share best-practice (e.g., through staff development seminars).
  WorldPop partners with the non-profit Flowminder Foundation (Tatem is a Director and their
  staff share office space) to facilitate the scale-up and implementation of WorldPop’s research
  findings (e.g., ICS-2 and ICS-3). GeoData has a large client base (discussed above), with
  many years’ experience of engaging with end-users, and actively contributed to two ICS (ICS-1
  and ICS-2). Our ICS reflect the most mature relationships between SoGES and end-users, but
  numerous other such relationships exist (§4.3), across all career levels, affording a well-
  developed pipeline that assures the future sustainability of our societal impact.
  v. Open Research
  Institutional support for open access publishing is provided (REF5a, p7). Since 2014 we have
  increased the volume of Open Research tools and data, explicitly to promote end-user uptake
  and advance academic and societal impact. Of our submitted outputs, 60% are available via
  ‘Gold’ open access; we also published 23 open data/software papers (of these 7 are in the top
  5% globally in terms of citations for documents in the same publication year and field; Scopus,
  August 2020). All our ICS are underpinned by Open Research. For example, the geospatial
  data products produced by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) using Martin, Cockings
  and Harfoot’s automated zone design methods (ICS-1) are available under the Open
  Government Licence (OGL) via ONS’ GeoPortal (>73,000 downloads since 2014). Similarly,
  WorldPop’s global demographic data (www.worldpop.org; >110,000 downloads since 2014)
  are fully open access, using transparent, documented and shareable methods (ICS-2 and ICS-
  3). The European Space Agency funded vegetation product OLCI Terrestrial Chlorophyll Index
  (OTCI) developed by Dash is used within the Copernicus Sentinel-3 programme (ICS-4); 2.44
  pebibytes of such OTCI data were downloaded during 2017 alone.
  GeoData has expertise in the development and application of Open Spatial Data Infrastructure,
  and promotes Open Research across SoGES. Examples of GeoData-led work include the
  ‘Delta Portal’ (www.delta-portal.net) for sharing data across delta-focused research projects
  (Darby, Hutton, Lazar, Tompkins), and Smith’s work on local area data
  (www.mylocalmap.org.uk/iaahealth). Dissemination of Open Research expertise forms an
  explicit component of our capacity building (discussed above) and extends into research
  training more generally; all research students are trained in, and required to develop, Open
  Data Management Plans (§2.3.4).
  vi. Research Integrity
  The culture of research integrity is embedded throughout the Research Clusters, alongside a
  staff mentoring and appraisal process which has a focus on excellence, accountability, equity,
  and transparency (§2.1.1). Training in research integrity is provided to all PGR students
  through the University’s Doctoral College (§2.3.3). All staff complete an annual register of
  interests return in accordance with Southampton’s Conflict of Interests Policy. All research
  involving human subjects, including research using social media and secondary data, is
  reviewed by the Faculty Ethics Committee, which applies University Ethics procedures (REF5a,


                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  p9). Particular attention is paid to the development of equitable partnerships, especially in
  relation to our portfolio of research in the Global South. Health research, where required,
  adheres to national NHS Research Ethics Committee requirements. The SoGES Ethics
  Coordinator contributes to ethics policy development by means of their membership of the
  Faculty Ethics Committee. Formal mentoring on publication and co-authorship is given to
  PDRAs and PGRs, with the clear expectation that they will lead-author their work, per the
  Vancouver Protocol.
  1.3 Future Aims and Goals
  Over the next five years the School will work across and within our Research Clusters to tackle
  major global challenges. We will focus on building hubs around our research on: risk and
  resilience in social and physical systems; planetary health challenges; embedding nature-
  based solutions in environmental management; and capacity building to steer sustainable
  transformations through future crises. We will also develop sub-disciplinary areas as follows:
  ECaS will develop its excellence in geospatial analysis and understanding of environmental
  change. It will strengthen its remote sensing and computational modelling research to deliver
  innovations in monitoring and prediction of change and its drivers, addressing environmental
  challenges such as microplastics, water and food security, and climate adaptation.
  ESG will extend its expertise at the intersection of economic and social-cultural geographies. It
  will strengthen its research on feminist economic geographies and post-colonial geographies,
  with work on inequality, housing, migration and austerity. It will deploy its expertise on
  governance and citizenship to investigate new political and ethical understandings and
  practices emerging in response to Brexit and environmental crises, including evolving socio-
  spatial inequalities across and within different segments of society. It will continue to investigate
  changing working practices, gendered labour, value creation and their relations to spaces of
  creativity and innovation.
  LDE will investigate the response of natural environments to climate change and other human
  pressures and explore the implications of these changes for society. It will develop new work
  on the interaction between biological and geomorphic systems while continuing to pursue
  innovative molecular approaches (e.g., sedimentary DNA) to studies of environmental change,
  and will research past and present ecological dynamics to better understand the role of
  biodiversity in multi-use landscapes.
  PHeW will continue its research on time-space population geographies and its leadership in
  population health and behaviours through its international and UK population and disease
  mapping and transmission projects. It will expand its work on the cultures, spaces and
  practices of care, with cutting-edge work on inequality, planetary health challenges, and
  human/more-than-human care relations. It will produce innovative community-engaged work
  with marginalised groups, alongside an examination of how science, corporate, and state
  governance systems shape contemporary caringscapes.
  Staffing: We will expand staff numbers (to ~45 FTE by 2025), to develop the research
  opportunities identified above, through a combination of: (i) strategic hires (focusing on areas
  that cut across the Research Clusters’ goals, e.g. planetary health challenges and socio-
  environmental justice/governance), as permitted by healthy School finances, alongside (ii)
  continued transitioning of outstanding post-doctoral staff to permanent academic roles, and (iii)
  attracting externally-funded fellowships.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Funding Streams: We will attract substantial research income (remaining in the top 5 UK
  Geography departments during the next REF). We will build on the >£9M of awards already
  secured to the end of 2022 (§3.1) by: (i) focusing on larger bids; (ii) targeting UKRI Fellowships
  (see Staffing, above); (iii) targeting the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund; and (iv)
  consolidating our charitable income.
  Postgraduate Research: The Graduate School will continue to grow (with the aim of lying
  among the top 10 UK Geography departments by awards), resourced by leadership of
  CDTs/ITNs alongside an increased proportion of international students, the latter drawing on
  collaborations with our partners in the Global South. We will continue to focus on the quality of
  outcomes, with further improved completion rates, career destinations, and influential PGR-led
  publications.
  Facilities and Infrastructure: We will invest in: (i) High Performance Computing (HPC) and
  data infrastructure to provide continued support for our geospatial, computational and
  environmental sensing research and (ii) our facilities supporting molecular approaches to
  palaeo-environmental reconstruction. We will also use the new Boldrewood Innovation
  Campus, which houses the £48M (of which £26M from EPSRC) National Infrastructure
  Laboratory (NIL) (REF5a, pp16-17), to deploy state-of-the-art fluid dynamics laboratories in our
  work on earth surface processes.

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Our values-led Research and Impact Strategy (§1) has driven our staffing strategy in this REF
 cycle, with recruitment activity seeking to maintain a balance between early and later career
 staff, while enhancing overall diversity and focusing on staff development. Growth in staff
 numbers has been possible through: (i) strategic hires filling defined capability gaps; and (ii)
 natural turnover aiding reinvestment in early career staff. Note that recruitment detailed below
 was completed by 2016; new staff have, therefore, had the opportunity to become embedded,
 be nurtured, and develop their careers, with many subsequently being promoted (§2.1.1).
 Our strategic hires comprised one Professorial (1M) and two (1F 1M) Associate Professor
 appointments in 2015-2016. Eigenbrod’s expertise in spatial ecology and ecosystem services
 strengthens our Environmental Change and Sustainability (ECaS) and Landscape Dynamics
 and Ecology (LDE) Clusters, while Reuschke’s research on home-working and wellbeing
 complements Economy, Society and Governance (ESG) and Population, Health and Wellbeing
 (PHeW). At Professorial level Sheffield (recruited with a Royal Society Wolfson Merit award)
 brings expertise in hydrological extremes, strengthening both ECaS and LDE.
 Departures of Professorial staff (Atkinson took up a Deanship at Lancaster, Petts a Vice-
 Chancellorship at Plymouth, while Carling, Moon and Wrigley retired) allowed reinvestment in
 early career staff: Garrett (moved to Sydney; 2017), Hracs, Kemeny (moved to QMUL; 2017),
 Vullnetari and Wilkinson were all appointed in 2014, with Lewis (moved to US Center for
 Disease Control; 2019) and Smith following in 2015, strengthening ESG and PHeW. Ogutu and
 Nogué (appointed 2015) extend our expertise in Earth Observation and molecular approaches
 to palaeo-environments, respectively, while Lazarus (2016) added coastal systems expertise.
 Finally, an important development was the movement of talented research staff from fixed-term
 to secure academic (lecturer) contracts (§2.1.2).



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As a result of these changes we have maintained a staff profile (53% are <45 and 16% >56) that
 we regard as optimal for the sustainability and vitality of SoGES and our contributions to the
 discipline. These changes had also increased the number of female staff (in 2017 37% were
 female, cf. 33% at REF2014). However, the moves from Engineering of Hudson, Osborne,
 Shaw, and Snaddon (all male) in the 2018 institutional re-structure (see §1.1) then slightly
 reduced our proportion of female staff (30%). Nevertheless, SoGES has diversified through
 increased international (37% non-UK cf. 18% in REF2014) and BAME (11% cf. 3% in REF2014)
 staff. All Category A staff are in permanent roles, with 8 (4F 4M) on fractional contracts,
 reflecting our commitment to providing flexible working opportunities to support caring
 commitments, transitions towards retirements, adjustments following serious illness, or to help
 manage disabilities or mental health.
 2.1.1 Career Development and Support of Established Staff
 Since 2016 appraisals have been undertaken by specially trained individuals to ensure
 consistency in the process. This change is a direct result of our Athena SWAN action plan
 (working towards Silver) that itself was driven by staff feedback to give primacy to career
 development and future aspirations as opposed to a prior focus on past performance and
 achievements. In our new system, PIs still appraise researchers working on their grants, but a
 pool of 5 (1F 4M) ‘super-appraisers’ (SAs) now appraise staff within defined career levels, rather
 than Research Cluster leads appraising staff within their groups. SAs help appraisees develop
 their research plans and agree expectations around research and impact activity that align with
 Cluster and School strategies. Full allowance is made for special circumstances, and all
 appraisals include a discussion on any issues affecting wellbeing and work-life balance. A key
 responsibility of the SA is to focus on career development, nurturing staff to their next promotion,
 liaising closely with the School Promotions Panel (see below). There are two (one physical and
 one human geographer for each level) SAs for Lecturers and Associate Professors; the Head of
 School appraises Professorial staff.
 Our Athena SWAN action plan also led to reforms of promotions processes. Our new
 Promotions and Regrading Advisory Group (PRAG) is more gender-balanced (4F 5M) than the
 panel it replaced and ensures active support for staff with protected characteristics. In direct
 response to concerns that some staff, especially women, are reluctant to put themselves forward
 for promotion, PRAG pro-actively reviews the progress of all staff annually, not just those who
 indicate they are seeking promotion or those recommended by appraisers. PRAG identifies
 individuals ready for promotion, then mentors them through the process. These changes have
 proven successful in enabling career progression. Since 2014, 8 (1F 7M) colleagues have been
 promoted to Professor: Dash, Eigenbrod, Hughes, Hutton, Langdon, Tatem, Tompkins and
 Wright, with one (M) unsuccessful application. A further 11 staff (3F 8M) (14 applied; 5F 9M)
 were promoted to Associate Professor: Clarke, Cockings, Hracs, Hudson, Lazarus, Leyland,
 Nield, Power, Roe, Sorichetta and Wilkinson. All three (1F 2M) applicants (Nogué, Ogutu
 and Snaddon) for promotion from Level 4 (equivalent to Lecturer A) to Level 5 (Lecturer B) were
 successful. PRAG has also focused on rewarding research staff, including those on short-term
 contracts, with 12 (4F 8M) PDRAs being promoted (from Level 4 to 5).
 SoGES ensures staff have the support they need to flourish, paying attention to issues of equity
 when allocating resources:
    ● Annual Research Budgets based on staff grade are provided to all Category A staff
      (including Independent Researchers), replacing a ‘points-based’ algorithm (used during
      REF2014) that favoured Professorial staff. This ensures gender parity within grades and

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      gives primacy to less established staff (in 2019/20 Lecturers received £1250, Associate
      Professors £1200 and Professors £900). Staff also retain a proportion (10%) of grant
      overheads which, together with consultancy funds, can be carried over from year to year.
      These mechanisms enable activities such as conference attendance or seed-corn funding
      of new work.
   ● Workload Management is based on time (not credits) and includes teaching, research,
     impact, and administrative duties. Our workload model (WLM) includes research student
     supervision (§2.3.4), Directly Allocated hours linked to external grants, and assigns
     teaching and administrative duties in a way that assures staff have a substantial baseline
     (>40% of working time) for research. This baseline excludes research leave (discussed
     below) and can be adjusted upwards, by reducing teaching and/or administration, for staff
     with special circumstances (e.g., following illness or parental leave); 4 (2F 2M) such
     adjustments have been made since 2014. Workload levels and allocation processes are
     fully transparent; a spreadsheet detailing all assigned tasks and their loadings is shared
     with all staff. For the most recent academic year (2019/20), female and male staff who
     were not on research leave spent on average 51% and 44% of their time on research,
     respectively.
   ● Research Leave is available to all (part-time and full-time) Category A staff, with one
     semester awarded (contingent on an application detailing a strategic research plan) for
     every eight served. Eligibility is unaffected by timing, but sabbaticals may be scheduled to
     accommodate staff circumstances and some have been brought forward to enable
     transitions back following parental leave (e.g., Roe, Tompkins). Since 2014, 48 semesters
     of research leave have been taken (38% by women), with 35 (80%) of our 44 staff having
     taken at least one semester (the other 9 have not yet accrued sufficient service to be
     eligible). Additional opportunities are afforded by securing external funding to 'buy-out'
     from other duties; there have been five (all men) such instances since 2014, including
     Brown’s Advanced Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship. Staff with Directly Allocated
     hours on external grants that exceed the baseline research allocation (see ‘Workload
     Management’) also receive an equivalent reduction in teaching/administration; 6 staff (2F
     4M) have benefitted from such reductions.
   ● Impact is supported by the Faculty Impact Officer who coordinates impact activity and
     funding opportunities, including support for research staff secondments to non-academic
     organisations. Recent examples of such secondments include Floyd’s placement to
     support her work on mobile phone records at the Vodafone Foundation, Harfoot’s
     secondment to ONS to transfer zone design techniques, and Domecka’s placement with
     the OECD Centre for Entrepreneurship, SMEs and Local Development (LEED) team.

 2.1.2 Career Development of ECRs
 SoGES supports PDRAs through initiatives led by the ECR Mentoring and Faculty Concordat
 Champions. All PDRAs have assigned mentors to guide them through probation and develop
 career plans. Changes to appraisals (§2.1.1) have benefited PDRAs by recognising that
 appraisals and probation need to balance the needs of the project(s) that hired them with their
 longer-term career development needs. Indeed, since 2016 all PDRA job specifications were
 revised to explicitly include a time allocation (5%) for their career development. Consequently,
 for those PDRAs who aspire to lecturing positions, growing numbers are voluntarily being
 mentored through Higher Education Academy (HEA) teaching qualifications. PDRAs also


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contribute to the running of the University, by sitting on the School Management Group (SMG; 1
 M representative currently) and Faculty boards (two (1F 1M) representatives currently).
 The Head of School and Director of Research meet PDRAs monthly, to promote discussion,
 offer advice and respond to emerging needs, resulting in various development opportunities
 having been offered, including promotions workshops, interviewing skills sessions, and
 fellowship bidding ‘masterclasses’. Technical skills are developed within Research Cluster fora.
 In 2019, in response to ECR feedback, we introduced processes, supported by internal peer-
 review of applications (including applications for fellowships to be held at other institutions), that
 now allow ECRs to act as P/CIs on their own grant applications, making progression towards
 research leadership easier; 23 such bids have since been made, with 6 (26%; total value
 £0.35M) funded.
 We have also made concerted efforts to move researchers from fixed-term contracts to secure
 roles. For example, a NERC ESPA Fellowship was explicitly constructed to allow transition to a
 permanent academic post, enabling Schaafsma (F) to join in 2014 (transition completed 2018).
 Sorichetta and Ruktanonchai (previously Independent Researchers, both M) moved from
 fixed-term research to permanent lecturing posts in January 2020. Two other post-doctoral
 researchers (both F) moved from fixed-term to open-ended research contracts, in 2016 and
 2018 respectively.
 We are proud of the contributions that our ECRs make to the School, and their achievements
 are reflected in the numbers attaining promotion (§2.1) and their destinations after leaving us. Of
 the 67 (30F 37M) (who are additional to the 37 currently employed) PDRAs who left SoGES
 since 2014, 85% (of whom 52% are female) remain in academia. The majority (78%) are PDRAs
 (including two NERC Independent Fellows), with the rest permanent academics (e.g., at
 Edinburgh, Glasgow, Montpellier, Oxford). Those who left academia (15%) are all in teaching or
 government employment (e.g., NASA, National Health Scotland, ONS).
 2.2 Equality, Diversity, Inclusion, Wellbeing
 SoGES’ EDI group coordinates activities to improve engagement, wellbeing, workplace culture,
 and work-life balance. Our Athena Swan Team is part of this group and during the assessment
 period much of our action plan for working to Silver has been delivered (e.g., new appraisal and
 promotion systems, advertising administrative roles, transparent workload model, meetings
 within core hours, and an email policy to curtail usage outside working hours). Power and
 Snaddon have qualified as Mental Health First Aiders to assist with mental health concerns.
 Other areas (not discussed previously) include work to increase the visibility of female role
 models (see §4.1 on the Gregory Lecture), efforts to address the research career pipeline for
 BAME PGRs and ECRS, and embedding Athena SWAN processes across our organisational
 structures.
 As discussed above, a notable development has been the transition of fixed-term research staff
 to permanent roles (§2.1.2). We follow the University’s parental leave policies (REF5a, p13), and
 Southampton’s staff policies apply equally to full-time and part-time staff. Consequently, SoGES
 makes no distinction between full and part-time staff when allocating resources (§2.1.1). SoGES
 supported all flexible working requests made since 2014.
 Since March 2020, our response (see REF5a Annex for institutional context) to the Covid-19
 pandemic has centred on ensuring the wellbeing and safety of staff and students. We
 implemented regular ‘no agenda’ all staff meetings, with the Head of School also leading
 focused group (e.g., with PDRAs, PGRs, carers, and technicians) meetings, to support

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues and ensure concerns were addressed swiftly. Additionally, we surveyed all
 colleagues to determine impact and support required. In response to feedback, we re-opened
 our laboratories (6th July 2020) immediately after detailed Health and Safety protocols had been
 developed, and prioritised the partial re-opening of offices to those, particularly PGRs and
 PDRAs, who had felt isolated during lockdown. Regular (bi-weekly) fora have continued to allow
 us to consider wellbeing issues holistically across the School.
 Full regard to EDI issues has been paid while constructing our submission. All staff provided
 input to this REF5b and throughout key facets (e.g., research income, PGR supervision, external
 roles) are reported using gender breakdowns of supporting data. We have followed
 Southampton’s REF Code of Practice and the profile of our submitted outputs is representative
 of SoGES’ demographics (Table 1).
 Table 1. Profile of submitted outputs.
  Staff Characteristic                    Proportion of Outputs in     Proportion of Staff by
                                              Submission (%)              Headcount (%)
  Female staff                                      30                            30
  BAME staff                                        10                            11

 2.3 Research students
 SoGES’ Graduate School (SoGES-GS) is led by a Director supported by an administrator and
 Graduate School committee (comprising the Director, Research Cluster Leaders and a PGR
 representative) who oversee recruitment, training, supervision and progression. After a
 disappointing REF2014 (25th in our Unit of Assessment on doctoral awards), we set the objective
 of sustainably (see §2.3.4) growing the Graduate School to increase the number of graduating
 PGRs. Successes in attracting UKRI studentships, coupled with an ongoing programme of
 internal investment (>£2.3M since 2014) into co-funded studentships (this co-funding intersects
 with our impact strategy; §2.3.2), and supportive mentorship (§2.3.4), have enabled us to
 achieve this goal. SoGES-GS now spans the full range of our research interests, with virtually all
 (95%, including IRs) staff actively supervising our 63 (40F 23M) PGRs. Some 75.45 doctorates
 have been awarded (Table 2), at a substantially enhanced rate (10.8 per year) compared to
 REF14 (6.9 per year); we now rank 11th out of 49 UK Geography departments (HESA data for
 2013/14 to 2018/19) on this measure. Gender balance has also improved markedly: 42% of
 graduates in the review period were female compared to 33% in 2013/14.
 2.3.1 Working Environment
 PGRs are housed in the ‘Hub’, which offers individual workstations, open plan space for Year 1
 students, and shared offices for Years 2+. The inclusion of students in a single space promotes
 collaboration and creative thinking within and across Research Clusters.
 Table 2. Doctoral degrees awarded. Note: no research-based professional doctorates were
 awarded in the review period.

                                                   Academic Year

                 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20                   Total

  Doctoral         9.5        8.3          7.6      14.35     14.1     11.15     10.45     75.45
  degrees
  awarded


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3.2 Recruitment and Financial Support
 Applicants are assessed by two trained academics at a recruitment day where they present
 previous research and undertake an interview. Funding comes from four main sources, with just
 2 students (3%) self-funding:
  (i)   UKRI Studentships. Numbers (23: 16F 7M) of UKRI-funded students have increased
        substantially since REF2014, comprising 37% of PGRs (cf. 20% in 2013). We participate
        in 4 of the 21 active doctoral training centres hosted at, or partnered with, the University
        (REF5a, pp13-14), playing leading roles in two of them. Moon led the ESRC South Coast
        DTP bid writing team, our staff co-ordinate two of its training pathways (in Population
        Change, Health and Wellbeing and Sustainability, Environment and Resilience) and we
        established a 1+3 Human Geography pathway for our Masters in Social Research
        Methods, transforming the pipeline into doctoral study within the PHeW and ESG Clusters.
        We are also a key partner in the NERC INSPIRE DTP2 (2019-2028, successor to
        SPITFIRE), with responsibility for designing its training programme which promotes
        employability, work experience and networking links to industry and government.
        Additional pipelines to doctoral research in the ECaS and LDE clusters include an EPSRC
        CDT (in Web Science) and the NERC/EPSRC NEXUSS CDT in Smart and Autonomous
        Observing Systems, the latter linking to our new Environmental Sensing facility (§3.3).

  (ii) Other Funders and Match-Funding (21: 14F 7M, representing 33% of PGRs). Other
       external funders include the European Research Council, Leverhulme and Wellcome.
       SoGES also provides matched funding (typically equivalent to 4 new studentships at UKRI
       rates each year, totalling £2.38M invested since 2014) to incentivise external partners
       (e.g., Environment Agency, European Space Agency, Natural Resources Wales) to jointly
       conceive, fund and, where appropriate, supervise studentships. These projects often
       address policy-relevant work, offering a notable contribution to our impact strategy.

  (iii) Overseas Students. Overseas (i.e., non-UK/EU) students (12: 6F 6M, 19% of PGRs) are
        supported largely by the China Scholarship Council as well as the governments of five
        other nations.

  (iv) Institutional Schemes. Competitive awards are allocated via the University’s Strategic
       Research Groups and Multi-Disciplinary Institutes. Our roles in the USRGs (§1.2.2) have
       left us well placed to target such schemes, with 5 (3F 2M) students (8% of total) currently
       funded either through Vice Chancellor’s Studentships or the Southampton Marine and
       Maritime Institute.

 2.3.3 Training and Support
 All PGRs receive UKRI level stipends; non-UKRI students also receive support grants (£1000/yr)
 to fund conference attendance/fieldwork. At the outset, PGRs follow a School Induction
 Programme and work with their supervisory teams to identify and address their training,
 equipment, and fieldwork needs; this Academic Needs Analysis (ANA) is subsequently reviewed
 annually. All PGRs take general skills/research training courses, including on Research Integrity,
 Impact and Open Research (§1.2.2), with numerous other training opportunities made available
 through the University Doctoral College’s (UDC) GradBook online booking system; all courses
 are mapped to the UKRI sponsored Vitae Researcher Development Framework.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All PGRs are allocated to a Research Cluster (many join more than one) where they participate
 in reading groups, away days and meetings that often have PGR focused themes such as
 ‘publishing your first journal article’. PGRs also attend the School’s seminar programme (all final
 year PGRs are invited to speak in this series), promoting interaction with external speakers. All
 PGRs also present at the annual SoGES-GS Conference, while the UDC’s annual Festival of
 Research facilitates broader inter-disciplinary engagement. Together with a peer-mentoring
 scheme established in 2015, in which PGRs are allocated a mentor from the year above
 (finalists are mentored by a postdoctoral researcher), these activities sustain a supportive
 intellectual environment in which our PGRs thrive and develop (§2.3.4). Any issues that do arise
 can be raised through a Senior Tutor (who provides pastoral care) and/or the staff-PGR liaison
 committee whose representatives (currently 3F and 1M) also sit on the Faculty boards that deal
 with the Graduate School, teaching and research.
 2.3.4 Supervision and Progression
 PGRs have a primary supervisor leading a supervisory team approved by the Graduate School.
 Early career lecturing staff and Independent Researchers co-supervise with more established
 academics, and all staff must complete supervisor training before they can supervise. To ensure
 sustainable workloads and quality input, supervisory loads are capped (at a maximum 5.0 FTE)
 and included in the School’s workload model (§2.1.1). At the end of Year 1 progress is reviewed
 by a single assessor to decide progression to Year 2 (FTE). For progression to Year 3 (FTE)
 students undertake a ‘Confirmation’ examination, comprising a presentation followed by a
 rigorous viva voce conducted by two independent internal assessors, based on the assessment
 of (at least) two draft chapters, a work plan, and an Open Data Management Plan. This structure
 for progression reviews means that PGRs receive detailed feedback from staff beyond their
 supervisory team. The web-based ‘PGR Tracker’ provides an online record of training courses
 attended, supervisory meetings, progress reviews and outcomes.
 Overall, our PGR students play a vital role in our research culture. We celebrate their
 achievements, which provide evidence of the quality and effectiveness of supervision practices
 and provision of skills for career development:
  (i)   PGR completion rates (UKRI definition: mean time to submit), which have improved from
        4.66 (2013) to 4.34 years on average since 2014 (note data includes full and part time
        students);
  (ii) Strong destinations data, with 51% (34%F, 66%M) of our post-2014 graduates remaining
       in academia (of whom 63% are PDRAs, 32% lecturers and 5% technicians; destinations
       include the Universities of Bern, Birmingham, Manchester, Royal Holloway, SOAS and
       Utrecht). A further 15% (75%F, 25%M) are employed in the private sector (e.g., Jacobs
       Global, Ordnance Survey), and 13% (30%F, 70%M) in government employment (e.g.,
       FCDO, Environment Agency); the remainder work for NGOs (8%; e.g., IUCN), or are
       teachers or self-employed;
  (iii) High quality publications, with 16% of our selected outputs for REF2021 having been first-
        authored by PGRs, highlighting the quality of our PGR cohorts.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Funding
 (NB: awards/income data are current at 31/7/2020; comparative rankings are from 2018/19
 HESA data, the most recent available)
 We support staff at all career levels in their efforts to attract external research income, through a
 coherent approach involving:
    (i) targeted use of internal funding schemes (including the Faculty Strategic Interdisciplinary
    Research Fund, as well as re-investment of overheads; §2.1.1) to allow concept-proofing of
    ideas and the development of subsequent bids;
    (ii) supportive internal peer-review and mentoring (e.g., through Research Cluster workshops
    and away days);
    (iii) supporting mid- and later career staff to bid for larger value awards (as per our strategy of
    encouraging ambition; §1.2.2).
 Since 2014 95% (85%F, 100%M) of our staff (including all four IRs) have secured external
 awards, with a total portfolio of 262 grants worth £31.74M. Mean award size has increased
 substantially (>£121k now, cf. £64k in 2014) while maintaining very high overall success rates
 (42%, cf. 41% during REF2014) in the face of heightened competition. Indeed, our total income
 (i.e., research spend) of £27.4M now places us among the top 5 UK Geography Departments.
 During REF2021 mean annual income (£3.91 M/yr) has doubled compared to REF2014 (£1.89
 M/yr), rising to £5.0M in 2019/20 (Figure 2a, next page). During April to July 2020, bidding
 activity declined somewhat (30% by value compared to April-July 2019), as our response to the
 Covid-19 crisis sought to balance staff wellbeing (§2.2) with pivoting, where appropriate and
 possible, some research towards aiding the response to the pandemic (examples below and in
 §4.3). Nevertheless, as of August 2020 we already hold £9.1M of awards secured to the end of
 2021/2022, indicating the sustainability of our pipeline of funded research.
 Our 2014-2021 research strategy explicitly sought to diversify income sources (Figure 2b) to
 afford resilience to shocks. UKRI and Academies income (£8.88M) comprises 32% of our
 portfolio, with awards from all 7 UKRI councils and balanced splits between ESRC and NERC.
 For ESRC, we have a key leadership role in the National Centre for Research Methods (Martin)
 and led the ADRC-E (Martin, Moon; 2013-2018). SoGES has also enjoyed success within the
 Global Challenges Research Fund (£3.4M awarded), with leadership of the GCRF-GROW
 BRECcIA project (Sheffield, Wright, Dash), and awards from: AHRC-GCRF for anti-microbial
 resistance (Roe); ESRC-GCRF for tele-connected Sargassum risks across the Atlantic
 (Tompkins, Dash) and for water and waste management in Africa (Wright, Shaw); MRC-GCRF
 on microbial contamination of drinking water (Wright); and BBSRC-GCRF and NERC Newton
 Fund for work on Asian deltas (Darby, Hutton). Schaafsma is also a CI on the GCRF Trade,
 Development and the Environment Hub. During spring 2020, we secured awards for Covid-19
 related work from the British Academy (Clarke: investigating how people interpret demands to
 act responsibly), GCRF (Leyland: investigating illegal sand-mining during ‘lockdown’ in
 Vietnam), and ESRC (Reuschke: researching impacts on the UK’s self-employed). WorldPop
 also secured three awards (two from the Gates Foundation and one from ONS) to research the
 influence of mobility on Covid-19 transmission in LMICs and the UK, contributing in part to two
 Impact Case Studies (ICS-2 and ICS-3).




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2. (a) Temporal trend and (b) sources of SoGES research income.

 In our REF2014 submission we signalled our intention to target EU funding. ERC Starting Grants
 were awarded to Reuschke and Eigenbrod and an ERC Advanced Grant to Brown. These and
 other awards have driven growth in EU income (£2.63M, cf. £928k during REF2014), albeit this
 is sufficiently measured (10% of our portfolio) to remain resilient to any potential post-Brexit
 isolation from EU funding. We have also had considerable success with Charitable, Government
 and Industrial funding (£12.2M, 45% of our portfolio), with government funding including grants
 from Defra (e.g., Sear’s work on fine sediments in aquatic ecosystems) and Public Health
 England (Moon and Smith), all with a strong applied focus. A key development has been to
 secure significant charitable income (>£10M of awards from the Bill and Melinda Gates
 Foundation alone) to support WorldPop’s research on high-resolution gridded population
 surfaces. This, along with GCRF awards, means that the Global South is now a major focus of
 our research, enabling us to draw upon synergies between researchers and projects, share best
 practice in ODA research and impact activity (§2.1.1) and, through equitable partnerships, build
 strong collaborations with our partners in LMICs (§4.1).
 Most awards entail collaboration with other leading institutions within the UK and internationally.
 With respect to larger-scale collaborations, we already highlighted Martin’s roles in the ESRC
 NCRM and ADRC-E; he also serves as Deputy Director of ESRC’s UK Data Service. These
 involve(d) collaboration with 5 UK Universities and the Office for National Statistics (ONS).


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sheffield leads the BRECcIA consortium which includes the Universities of Ghana, Kenyatta,
 Malawi, Nairobi, the Technical University of Kenya, as well as the African Institute for
 Development Policy, UNESCO, and 2 UK institutes. Tompkins and Hutton’s Deltas,
 Vulnerability and Climate Change: Migration and Adaptation project partnered with the
 Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology and the Universities of Dhaka, Ghana,
 and Jadavpur, as well as 5 UK institutes, including the Met Office. Moon’s NIHR-funded work
 had partners at Portsmouth, QMUL, Newcastle, Sheffield and Warwick. Roe’s Wellcome-funded
 Animal Research Nexus involves collaboration with Exeter, Nottingham, Manchester and Oxford.

 3.2 Research Infrastructure
 WorldPop has seen major growth (from 1 to 28 research and technical staff since 2014). To
 accommodate this, the University invested £187k to enable the team to be housed together in
 refurbished facilities that are now shared with the non-profit Flowminder Foundation, as part of
 our strategy to aid translation of research findings to end-users (§1.2.2).

 3.3 Research Facilities
 Since 2014 we have invested over £0.5M in our laboratories, equipment and facilities, which are
 supported by 3.8 FTE technical staff, including an electronics technician and cartographic
 support, with two new strategic initiatives:
    1.   Environmental Sensing at Southampton (£275k): Created in 2015/16 by procuring a
         fleet of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), an Autonomous Surface water Vehicle (ASV),
         and associated sensors (including laser scanners), Environmental Sensing at
         Southampton (ES@S, www.esas.soton.ac.uk) represents a state-of-the-art autonomous
         sensing facility supporting research within SoGES and across the University (e.g., NERC
         BLUEcoast consortium, supporting Lazarus, Leyland and colleagues from Ocean
         Science), with links to the institution’s Autonomous Systems Research Group and the
         EPSRC/NERC NEXUSS CDT (§2.3). With three Terrestrial Laser Scanners (TLS), dGPS
         systems, and a dual-head MultiBeam Echo Sounding (MBES) system, ES@S provides
         Mobile Laser Scanning (MLS) capabilities, allowing simultaneous above- and below-
         water survey. This capability supports the Landscape Dynamics and Ecology Cluster’s
         work on rivers, resulting in major papers by Leyland and Darby. We also made new
         equipment purchases to support: (i) our earth-surface process work (sonic anemometers,
         Acoustic Doppler Current Profilers, and a LISST suspended sediment profiler), and (ii)
         the work of staff in the Environmental Change and Sustainability Cluster in developing
         protocols for assessing measurement uncertainty and ensuring traceability in satellite
         data validation (LI-COR canopy analysis to monitor leaf area indices in situ).
    2.   Palaeo-Environmental and Earth surface laboratories (£250k): In 2015 we created
         the UK’s first sedaDNA facility, allowing the extraction of sedaDNA samples for
         processing at the School of Biological Sciences sequencing facilities. This new capability
         has supported work using molecular approaches to reconstruct palaeo-environments,
         with key publications from Brown, Edwards, and Nogué. In addition, we upgraded our
         microscopy capabilities to support Hudson’s micro-plastics research and purchased a
         hand-held XRF analyser for geochemical analyses of sediment cores.
 We also work closely with other laboratories in the University (REF5a, pp16-17):




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (i)   We are major users of Itrax core-scanning (e.g., Brown, Dearing, Langdon, Sear),
          inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) (Hughes), flux-gate
          magnetometer and DNA sequencing facilities at the National Oceanography Centre;
    (ii) We employ the University’s £3M µVis system (X-ray CT), for example to support
         Leyland and Sear’s NERC-funded research on river-bed sediment structure;
    (iii) Southampton’s High Performance Computing facilities were upgraded in 2017; Iridis 5
          now ranks amongst the top 500 supercomputers globally. Iridis is freely available to staff
          and PGRs, and is used widely (e.g., Darby’s global modelling of future changes in
          sediment delivery to deltas, as well as point cloud processing for Leyland’s analyses of
          river bank erosion, and Nield’s work on aeolian processes and surface change).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Collaborations (NB: Collaborations via funded projects are discussed in §3)
 During 2014-2019, 65% (cf. 51% in 2014) of our publications were with colleagues at
 international institutions, reaching 69% in 2019 (Scopus, August 2020). Our co-authorships are
 drawn from 692 academic (including 76 of the top 100 Universities in the 2019 QS World
 University Rankings) and, as an indicator of our commitment to co-producing research with end-
 users, 232 non-academic institutes from 78 nations (Figure 3; next page).

 We encourage disciplinary leaders to visit, having hosted 47 (19F 28M) visiting academics (from
 17 countries) since 2014. Additionally, formal Visiting Professorships include: Jim Best (Illinois),
 Adrian Collins (ADAS) and Maarten Kleinhans (Utrecht), who contribute to the LDE cluster;
 while Vanessa Lawrence (former Chief Executive of Ordnance Survey) and Paul Curran (City
 University) contribute to ECaS. SoGES staff also hold Visiting Professorships: Brown (Kyoto),
 Darby (East China Normal University), Hracs (Leibniz Institute), Nield (Texas A&M).
 SoGES hosts the annual Gregory Lecture series and since 2014 we have expanded its scope to
 include an associated seminar, specifically for ECRs and PGRs, that focuses on providing
 career advice and raising aspirations. Since 2014 the series has included a more diverse (5F,
 2M, 1BAME) set of speakers (Running, Montana, 2014; Brigham-Grette, Massachusetts, 2015;
 Subramanian, Harvard, 2016; Bell, Lamont-Doherty, 2017; Robinson, UCL, 2018; Rosenzweig,
 NASA Goddard/Columbia, 2019; Pain, Newcastle, 2020).
 SoGES promotes interactions between staff, students and key research users, utilising our close
 links with industrial (Dr Neil McCourt, UK Director at Telefónica UK, is a Visiting Professor),
 government and supranational organisations including Food Standards Agency, Office for
 National Statistics, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 3. SoGES’ collaborations as indicated by co-publications with institutions of varying
 types. Data from Scopus, August 2020.

 4.2 Contributions to the Research Base (NB: current as of July 2020 unless stated)
 4.2.1 Research Councils
 Twenty-four colleagues (55% of submitted staff; 7F, 17M) have contributed (i.e., advisory roles,
 Panel memberships, etc.) to the work of research councils. The breadth of our expertise is
 reflected in 5 of the 7 UKRI councils, along with other UK and international funding bodies, being
 represented below:
   ● AHRC: Brown (Panel C Thematic Large Projects; Strategic Review Panel).
   ● BBSRC: Dash (Peer Review College (PRC)).
   ● British Council: Dash (Newton Programme PRC).
   ● Commonwealth Scholarship Commission: Snaddon (Academic Adviser Panel).
   ● ESRC: Martin (ESRC Council and ESRC Audit Committee, both 2014-2016; Chair,
     Commissioning Panels for the 2015 What Works Wellbeing Centre and 2017 National
     Centre for Research Methods Phase II Research Projects programmes; Chair,
     ESRC/MRC Life Study Transition Board, 2015-2016; Member, UK Census Longitudinal
     Studies research support units commissioning panel, 2020); Moon (ESRC-Turing
     Fellowship Panel, 2017; Mental Health Leader Fellowship Panel, 2016-2017); Reuschke
     (ESRC Grants Assessment Panel D); Sunley (NPIF Fellowship Panel, 2019). Clarke,
     Cockings, Moon, Power, Reuschke, Sunley, Tompkins, Wilkinson and Wright are
     PRC members.
   ● EPSRC: Sear (PRC).
   ● European Research Council: Edwards (Advanced Grants panel PE-10, 2014-2017), Hart
     (CHIST-ERA co-chair, 2020).


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ● European Economic Area Grants: Dearing (collaborative projects panels, 2018-2019).
    ● GCRF: Sheffield (GCRF Future Leaders African Independent Research appointments
      panel, 2018-2020; GCRF-GROW programme panel); Wright (NERC/ESRC/AHRC GCRF
      resilience programme review panel, 2016).
    ● Irish Research Council: Clarke, Hart, Langdon, Power (all Outer International
      Assessment Board).
    ● Luxembourg Ministry for Higher Education and Research: Sheffield (peer review panel,
      Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology).
    ● NERC: Hart (Technology Proof of Concept panel, 2016; Digital Environment Expert
      Network, 2019-); Hudson (Towards a Sustainable Earth panel, 2018); Langdon (Large
      Grants panel, 2018); Lazarus (Strategic Programmes Advisory Group, 2014-2015);
      Leyland (Constructing a Digital Environment panel, 2020); Sheffield (SHEAR programme
      grants panel, 2018). Darby, Langdon and Sear are PRC members.
    ● Norwegian Research Council: Hart (Geoscience grants, 2014; Antarctica grants, 2015).
    ● Royal Society: Darby (University Research Fellowships panels, 2018-2019).
    ● Strategic Priorities Fund: Sheffield (UK Climate Resilience Programme panel, 2020)
    ● Swedish Research Council: Roe (Animal Health and Welfare panel, 2019).
    ● Swiss National Science Foundation: Reuschke (Spark scheme panel).

 4.2.2 Journal Editorships
 Twenty-five (57%) colleagues (7F 18M) serve(d) as Editors, Associate Editors, or on the
 Editorial Boards of 34 journals (e.g., Area, Earth Surface Processes and Landforms, Frontiers in
 Ecology and Evolution, Social and Cultural Geography). In addition, SoGES hosts/hosted
 Editors-in-Chief at: Health and Place (Moon, 2014-2016), J. Wetland Archaeology (Brown,
 2014-2017), Applied Spatial Analysis and Policy (Smith), and Remote Sensing (Dash).

 4.2.3 Learned Societies and Other Professional Organisations
 Staff of all levels offer disciplinary leadership through their contributions to learned societies and
 other organisations:
   ●   American Geophysical Union: Hart (Chair, Earth and Space Sciences Informatics Section
       Fall Meeting Programme Committee, 2018).
   ●   British Society for Geomorphology: Brown (Co-Chair, Anthropocene Working Group,
       2014-2017); Leyland (Treasurer, 2015-2018); Nield (Research Committee, 2017-2019);
       Darby (Trustee, 2014-2018; Chair, 2017-2018).
    ● Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System: Lazarus (Co-Chair, Coastal Working
      Group, 2016-2020).
    ● European Geosciences Union: Hart (Deputy President, Earth and Space Sciences
      Informatics Division); Nield (Science Officer, Geomorphology Division, 2018-2020);
      Sheffield (Plinius Medal Committee).
    ● Freshwater Biological Association: Shaw (Council, 2014-2016).




                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ● IMISCOE (International Migration, Integration and Social Cohesion in Europe) Research
     Network: Vullnetari (Maria Bagahna Dissertation award jury, 2019-).
   ● Institution of Environmental Sciences: Shaw (Council, 2014-2016; Chair, Grants
     Committee, 2014-2016).
   ● International Arctic Science Committee: Edwards (UK representative, Terrestrial Science
     Group, 2017-2020).
   ● International Biogeography Society: Nogué (Vice President, Communications and Public
     Affairs, 2019-).
   ● International Union for Quaternary Research: Langdon (Vice President, INQUA sub-
     commission on Humans and the Biosphere)
   ● Quaternary Research Association: Hart (Vice President).
   ● Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society: Dash (Council, 2014-2018).
   ● Regional Studies Association: Sunley (Research Committee)
   ● Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute for British Geographers): Darby (Council,
     2020-); Langdon (2016 Gilchrist panel); Martin (Policy Advisory Group, 2015-2017); Nield
     (Co-author, 2017 Benchmark Review of the State of Physical Geography in the UK);
     Power (Chair, Geographies of Health and Wellbeing Research Group, 2016-2019);
     Wilkinson (Treasurer, Feminist Geography Research Group).
    ● UK Polar Partnership Steering Committee: Edwards (Member).

 4.2.4 Conferences and Seminar Series
 We collectively delivered >165 invited/keynote lectures or seminars for major conferences,
 Universities, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organisations, and learned societies (e.g.,
 Darby and Tatem gave ‘Monday night lectures’ at RGS-IBG in London) both in the UK and
 overseas (>45 countries). We convened 62 special sessions at major meetings (e.g., AAG,
 AGU, EGU, IAG, INQUA, RGS-IBG) and hosted 3 meetings at Southampton: British Society for
 Geomorphology (2015), Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society (2015) and the British
 Animal Studies Network (2017).

 4.2.5 Academic Recognition
 Major honours bestowed on staff include Dearing’s appointment as Visiting Professor to the
 Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2014-2015 and his receipt of the 2014 Royal Geographical
 Society (RGS) Murchison Award. Martin received the 2015 RGS Back Award, and Nield the
 2016 RGS Gill Memorial Award. Sheffield received a Royal Society Wolfson Award and the
 2019 American Meteorological Society Robert E. Horton Award; he was also on the Clarivate
 Analytics Highly Cited Researchers lists in 2017 to 2019. In 2018 Ogutu won the Remote
 Sensing and Photogrammetry Society Len Curtis Award for best paper in remote sensing, and
 Utazi won the Taylor and Francis Commonwealth Scholar Best Journal Article Prize. In 2019
 Martin was awarded an OBE in the Queen’s New Year’s Honours list, for services to
 Geography and Population Studies, while Tatem was elected as a Fellow of the Academy of
 Social Sciences. Tatem was also awarded the 2016 Global Mobile Award from the Mobile World
 Congress and the 2020 RGS Back Award. Hill (GeoData) received the 2020 RGS Cuthbert
 Peek Award for his provision of geospatial expertise to aid understanding of human impact on
 the environment.

                                                                                      Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.3 Broader Contributions to the Economy and Society
 4.3.1 Economic and Societal Benefits
 In addition to our ICS, which focus on: improved methods for the collection of official statistics
 (ICS-1); using demographic data to aid disease elimination in LMICs (ICS-2); the use of mobile
 network data in disaster relief, disease and development applications (ICS-3); and (iv)
 strengthening the European Space Agency’s terrestrial vegetation monitoring capability to
 support biodiversity monitoring and drought surveillance (ICS-4), societal impact is derived
 across a broad base of SoGES research. Examples include Wilkinson’s ESRC-funded Hitting
 Home project (co-produced with the Young Women’s Trust), which addressed the equalities
 impacts of welfare reform on young people and which was presented at a policy event at the
 House of Commons. Reuschke’s ERC Starting Grant WORKANDHOME research was taken up
 by the OECD and the Scottish Government to develop policy guides advising governments on
 inclusive entrepreneurship. Evidence from Clarke’s ESRC project Popular Understandings of
 Politics was provided to the House of Lords Select Committee on Citizenship and Civic
 Engagement. Darby, drawing on BBSRC-funded research, advised Vietnam’s Ministry of
 Agriculture and Rural Development on flood resilient agriculture in the Mekong delta. Hutton’s
 work within the NERC/ESRC/DfID-funded ESPA Deltas project informed the Bangladesh
 Government’s Delta Plan. An ESPA Impact Acceleration grant allowed Schaafsma to advise the
 Government of Malawi on integrating environment into poverty measures for the UNEP PEI
 Africa Programme. Sunley is a member of the ESRC/Innovate UK Innovation Caucus.
 ECRs are also very active in developing impact. Independent Researcher Shengjie Lai led a
 series of Covid-19 studies (published in Nature and Science) using mobility and epidemiological
 data to assess the risk of Covid-19 spread and to quantify the effects of non-pharmaceutical
 interventions, with results used by the WHO and other national and international organisations to
 tailor strategies during the pandemic. Meanwhile IR Holland’s work on biodiversity loss
 (published in PNAS) was adopted by the IUCN (see §4.3.2). PhD work supervised by Hudson
 and Eigenbrod documented the importance of charcoal to Malawi’s poor and is cited in national
 forestry and energy policy documents arguing for easing sanctions on the charcoal industry.
 PhD work supervised by Hughes informed Welsh Government policy on farm management of
 upland peat for carbon sequestration.
 4.3.2 Shaping Policy and Practice: Agenda-Setting Roles
 Staff (13 total, 4F 9M) sit on bodies that assist in shaping public policy and/or practice, in the UK
 and overseas. Specifically: Brown served (2014-2017) on the Home Office Forensic Sciences
 Advisory Group; Cockings is a Member of the Office for National Statistics (ONS) Census and
 Statistical Geographies Advisory Group; Dash is Vice Chair of the Committee on Space
 Research (COSPAR) Sub-commission on Land Process Morphology. He also co-chairs the
 Committee on Earth Observation Satellite (CEOS) Land Product Validation sub-group on Land
 Surface Phenology, and sits on the European Space Agency expert group for the Sentinel 3
 mission; Edwards presented findings from NERC’s first Arctic Programme to the All Party
 Parliamentary Group (AAPG) on the Polar Regions; Eigenbrod co-organised the Isaac Newton
 Institute workshop on Evidence-Based Decision Making for UK Landscapes; Holland sat on the
 IUCN World Commission on Protected Areas and Species Survival and the IUCN Red List
 standards group; Martin is a Member of the National Statistics Population Theme Advisory
 Board and the UK Statistics Authority Methodological Assurance Review Panel - Census; Moon
 is Honorary Consultant to Public Health England; Roberts co-chairs the Committee on Earth


                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Observation Satellite (CEOS) Land Product Validation sub-group on Fire Disturbance;
 Schaafsma lead-authored the 2019 Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity
 and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) assessment on valuing biodiversity and ecosystem services;
 Sear sits on the Environment Agency/Defra Technical Advisory Group on Flood and Erosion
 Risk Management Policy and the Flood Management Strategy Working Group. Tatem sits on
 the World Health Organisation (WHO) Expert Review Group on Assessment of Malariogenic
 Potential and the WHO International Consultation on risk mapping of the spread of vector-borne
 diseases via air travel. Vullnetari serves on the Independent Advisory Group for Country
 Information (IAGCI), which advises the Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration.

 4.3.3 Public Engagement
 Our public engagement work involves close liaison with the University’s Public Engagement with
 Research unit (PERu) and includes a range of outreach activities. Notable examples include the
 GCRF-GROW project BRECcIA (Sheffield, Dash, Wright), which hosted an event in Malawi
 (July 2019, 500 participants) to raise awareness of water and food security. In the UK we have a
 strong presence in the Southampton Science and Engineering Festival (SOTSEF), the
 University’s award-winning annual science festival. The Microbe Masquerade ran at Bestival
 (2016, 40,000 attendees), communicating findings from Roe’s EPSRC-funded work on AMR.
 Clarke’s ESRC work on The Rise of Anti-Politics in Britain was presented at an event hosted by
 Tristram Hunt MP at Portcullis House (attended by 72 MPs, think tank representatives and
 journalists). Roe’s Wellcome-funded The Mouse Exchange (3 science and humanities fairs since
 2018), one of 4 winners at the 2020 Openness Awards (held and judged by Understanding
 Animal Research), engages participants in using craft techniques to explore the laboratory
 mouse as a scientific tool and living animal. Looking forward, we will pursue the collaborative
 opportunities afforded by Southampton’s bid to become UK City of Culture in 2025.
 We increased our visibility in national and international news media through close liaison with
 the University’s media teams. For example, Edwards wrote and presented a BBC R4
 programme on Arctic Alaska in the series Climate Change and Me (aired May 2018). Clarke’s
 work on popular understanding of politics featured on BBC R4 (MPs’ Expenses, aired May
 2019). Darby’s work on the Mekong was featured by BBC News at Ten ahead of the IPCC
 SR15 meeting in October 2018, and by BBC World in December 2019. Roe’s AHRC Man Food
 project was covered by >30 outlets (including BBC R4’s The World Tonight), while Smith’s work
 on food poverty was covered by the BBC and national newspapers. Tatem was featured on a
 BBC1 Panorama (aired July 2020) programme on Covid-19. Eigenbrod’s work on global losses
 of mammal and bird ecological strategies was covered by 95 outlets, ranging from CNN to the
 Clacton Gazette. Hudson was interviewed on microplastics research and policy for BBC News,
 Sky News, and Al-Jazeera, and Langdon is a scientific advisor for CBeebies’ environment-
 related programming.
 The significant extent to which the public engage with our work is evidenced by Altmetric data
 (analysed September 2020; these data cover online engagement). Specifically, our outputs
 authored during 2014-2020 have been referenced by: (i) >2170 mainstream online news outlets;
 (ii) 93 Wikipedia entries; (iii) 168 policy citations; and (iv) >29000 shares or posts on social
 media. A total of 176 (17.4%) of our publications have Altmetric Attention Scores (AAS) in
 excess of 33, placing them within the top 5% of all research outputs tracked by Altmetric.




                                                                                          Page 23
