Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University
 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 a. Overview
 Over the current REF cycle, the research culture and environment in Durham University
 Business School (DUBS) has been (and continues to be) focussed on the overarching aim of
 becoming a leading European Business School by 2027. The School has set the following two
 overarching ambitious research aims:
    (i)     “… all academic research and teaching staff are achieving international recognition of
            their research and a majority can demonstrate international leadership in their field”;
    (ii)    “To increase the extent to which our research is recognized, used and referenced by
            practitioners, policy makers, regionally, nationally, and internationally for its positive
            social and environmental impact”.
 Thus, DUBS has worked to have in place the culture and available resources where a diverse
 range of outstanding researchers can achieve their full potential in pursuit of their research
 interests, in an innovative and transformative environment.
 We operate within a high quality infrastructure, currently based at Mill Hill Lane just outside of
 Durham City, which is set to improve further with a major University investment (delayed by
 COVID-19 but without any diminution of commitment) to rehouse DUBS into a new, purpose-
 build £60m+ building in the city centre. This will contain state-of-the-art research facilities (such
 as a dedicated experimental laboratory and SME incubator space); and an overall requisite high
 quality research environment that supports and enables world class research, and continues to
 attract high quality PhD students.
 The Business School is (since 2019) the 4th Faculty in the University, comprising 124.7 FTE
 research and teaching staff eligible for the REF, covering all core disciplines (including
 economics and econometrics). A very significant proportion of our research is published in
 leading journals, and much of it is concentrated in 11 research centres mandated by the Faculty
 to become internationally renowned centres of excellence:
 (1) Banking, Institutions and Development (CBID – 9 core members);
 (2) Durham Research in Economic Analysis and Mechanisms (DREAM – 6 core members);
 (3) Centre for Macroeconomic Policy (CEMAP – 12 core members);
 (4) Environmental and Energy Economics (CE3 – 4 core members);
 (5) Ethical Finance, Accountability and Governance (EFAG – 12 core members);
 (6) Experimental Methods in Business Research (CEMBR – 7 core members);
 (7) Innovation and Technology Management (CITM – 10 core members);
 (8) Leadership and Followership (CLF – 9 core members);
 (9) Marketing & International Business (CMIB – 11 core members);
 (10) Quantitative Research in Finance and Economics (CQRFE – 11 core members);
 (11) Organisations and Society (COS – 15 core members).
 Research Centres are not limited to departmental boundaries (indeed they sit within the Faculty
 of Business and not administratively within the 3 departments making up the Business School
 and Faculty), and in addition to core staff each has associated (and outside affiliated) members.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our policy for creating research centres has been to set each of them the target of being world-
 leading, and CLF has already reached this standard; some 14% of the 278 papers submitted
 under REF2 come from this centre and most of the publications have been rated by external
 reviewers as world leading. Lord, Braun, Deng, Epitropaki, Guan, Hall and Lam are all publishing
 in top journals (e.g., Journal of Management, Academy of Management Journal, Organisational
 Science, The Leadership Quarterly) with many of these articles focusing directly on leadership
 issues. In addition, the centre accounts for some 27% of the £5.9m awarded to the School
 during the current REF period (including funding for the impact work of the centre). It’s Impact
 Case Study (ICS) on leadership in the area of policing is an excellent example of how research
 has achieved substantial and deep impact. Other research centres are learning from CLF
 (particularly via discussions among centre leads) on what constitutes best practice in developing
 stronger outcomes.
 All centres have produced strong sets of research outputs over the REF period, in high ranking
 journals, and half have a submitted ICS associated with their research. Significant grant income
 has also accrued via collaborative efforts, in some instances this having been a major factor in
 demonstrating their success (e.g. CE3 through the efforts of Aftab, Scarpa and Jamasb was
 awarded over £736k).
 Some 7.5% of the research outputs DUBS has selected for this REF are for Category B staff
 (e.g., Clark, Hannan, Li S, Pendleton and Wu C-H), who had significant roles in contributing to
 our research centres and research in general; they are included to provide a fuller account of the
 quality of our environment over this REF period. Some 9% of outputs are associated with staff
 who do not directly belong to any specific research centre (e.g., Guo, Harris, Polos and Saeed).
 All PhD students are members of a research centre. Each centre receives a specific share of an
 annual £200k budget allocated by the Faculty (and subject to a review process to ensure KPIs
 are being met) which is spent on: (in normal times) attracting world-renowned visitors to come
 and present workshops and give seminars (in addition we have a DUBS Global Fellowship
 Programme – see below); supporting internal seminars and workshops (nearly every centre has
 a weekly seminar during term-time, which went online after March 2020, and that is in addition to
 departmental seminars that also take place); and generally facilitating research activities (note
 conference attendance and study leave are organised separately through departments as set
 out below when discussing research strategy).
 In addition to these activities and outcomes, faculty increasingly engage across the disciplinary
 activities of the University’s Research Institutes (see Figure 1 in the Institutional Environment
 Statement). For example, over this REF cycle, Jamasb (Category B since January 2020) has
 been Deputy-Director of the Durham Energy Institute and Williams , J. Deputy- (and during
 2019-20 Acting) Director of the Institute of Hazard, Risk and Resilience. Internal data collected–
 May 2017 – shows that nearly two-thirds of research staff in the Business School were engaged
 in publishing cross-disciplinary research outside their own subject area, with over 43% seeking
 multi-disciplinary publications.
 b. Research strategy
 In REF 2014, research was organised around 18 research clusters, and these were significant
 for DUBS in attracting world-class staff, including their role in making our research relevant to
 various stakeholders in industry and wider afield. An initial five year plan was therefore
 articulated for the recruitment of 25 FTE staff (at all levels), especially in clusters with critical
 mass; improving the management of the clusters monitored on an annual basis (including
 external advisory boards, responsibility for PhD recruitment, ECR mentoring, and impact case
 development); and for expansion of opportunities for interdisciplinary research. New initiatives
 were based around greater use of the (then) new Experimental laboratory (based at what was
 then our Stockton-on-Tees campus); the establishment of a new cluster in international

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 business; and greater development and expansion in the areas of operations management, the
 energy industry, and the Leadership & Followership cluster.
 Over the period since 2013, DUBS has hired 84 (80.5 FTE) new teaching & research staff (all of
 whom are expected to make 3-4* contributions to the REF) while 46 (41.7 FTE) have left. In
 2016, with the appointment of a new Dean, the School reorganised the 18+ clusters into 10
 research centres (mostly those listed above, with some realignments taking place in 2018) to
 focus their potential on achieving greater global research excellence and create more critical
 mass in (and support for those) delivering high quality research and impact. Directors of
 research centres receive 100 hours of workload allowance to recognise their contributions and
 provide an incentive to be effective leaders. The centres now play an even stronger role through
 their strengthened support and networks, bringing staff to Durham to present and interact with
 existing staff (see more below in section 2); as mentioned above all centres are subject to a
 rigorous annual process to ensure they meet their KPIs (upon which investment depends); all
 PhD recruitment (supported by up to 8-10 studentships, of which around 2-4 are from ESRC
 funding) includes membership and active involvement in a research centre; centres are
 especially tasked with mentoring and fostering the careers of their ECR members (as well as
 achieving equality and diversity goals); and centres are a foci for interdisciplinary research. In
 2017-18, the University decided to repurpose the Stockton campus and all DUBS staff were
 consolidated on a single site (Mill Hill Lane) which had undergone substantial refurbishment in
 2012-13. The Experimental lab continued to be used up until 2017 (when it was transferred to
 Mill Hill Lane), but now much of this type of research (especially by our economists) shares the
 facilities at Newcastle University via the Behavioural Economics Northeast Cluster (BENC), a
 collaborative effort with Newcastle University Business School (a new state-of-the-art
 Experimental lab will be based in Durham when the new building is available – see above).
 The new and expanded clusters set out in the 2014 research plan have all been supported, with
 Leadership and Followership being especially successful – e.g., with a £1.3m grant involving
 substantial international collaboration to train leaders in the US army, and major impact via
 engagement with nearly all of the UK’s police services in the development of their leadership
 capabilities. In addition, several initiatives to foster excellent research, and strengthen our
 processes, have been introduced post-2014 REF. These include:
       An increase in the research component of the workload model for research from 40 to
        50% of total workload, ensuring staff have adequate time to produce outputs, impacts,
        and engage in writing grant proposals.
       Incentives to encourage and reward grant capture: 10% of grant overheads (whether
        explicitly part of a grant award – such as ESRC – or not – such as Leverhulme) are
        returned to PIs who secure income and a further 10% is returned to DUBS for
        reinvestment; in addition, the DUBS workload model add the extra time commitment
        made for such grants to workload allowances, over and above the 50% allocation all
        research staff receive.
       Seedcorn funding from DUBS of up to £2,000 to support the development of grant
        proposals and/or impact case studies (the University operates a similar, more generous
        scheme, to which DUBS staff are eligible); in addition a DUBS scheme whereby (mostly
        revise and resubmit) papers targeted at highly ranked journals can receive up to an extra
        £2,000 in resource (to cover visiting collaborators, extra data collection, etc.).
       For those developing impact case studies, in addition to research leave (detailed below),
        DUBS offers additional leave (usually up to one term) for the development of impact,
        especially focused on collecting evidence of impact.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The overall success of this strategy – of building on the 2014 research plan, to deepen existing
 areas of excellence and strengthen in new areas – is demonstrated in a number of ways, most
 particularly by an increase in world-leading research associated with the (new) research centres,
 increasing grant capture and PG research degree completions, and the development after 2014
 of some 20 impact case studies (9 of which have been submitted for the REF). Some examples
 of this research include:
       in Banking, Institutions and Development: Philip published a paper in Review of
        Finance on financial literacy, which influenced the starting up of new collaborative
        research with high-level policy makers of India (NISM, NCFE) and Republic of Cyprus
        (Central Bank of Cyprus) on financial literacy and education, leading to cases of impact;
        Nicolae’s research into international trade and productivity with the Bank of England
        significantly impacts the policy debate on UK Brexit; centre staff published multiple
        papers in top tier journals (e.g. Review of Finance, British J of Management, J Corp
        Finance, Business History Review);
       In Durham Research in Economic Analysis and Mechanisms Saha published in the
        Economic Journal on illegal betting while Anbarci had a paper in Management Science
        reporting experimental evidence on pricing information and fairness perceptions;
       In the Centre for Macroeconomic Policy Chen published a paper in the Journal of
        Monetary Economics on the optimality of US monetary policy, while Chivers looked at
        employment-based health insurance and misallocation issues (Review of Economic
        Dynamics)
       In Environmental and Energy Economics Scarpa considered choice set formation for
        outdoor destinations in his Journal of Environmental Economics and Management paper;
       In Ethical Finance, Accountability and Governance a paper by Ferry in Public
        Administration Review considers the issues involved in the corporatisation of the public
        sector, while Mclean considers how to cost for strategic development in an emerging
        industry (British Accounting Review);
       In Experimental Methods in Business Research Kamei uses game theory to consider
        building reputations for cooperation (the Economic Journal) while Shachat in his
        Management Science article conducts experiments link to auctions and bargaining in
        procurement;
       In Innovation and Technology Management the role of entrepreneurship in family-
        owned firms is investigated by Kraus (British Journal of Management) and the
        Organization Studies paper by Pitsis considers role patterns and hierarchic positioning of
        client and agent in the temporary organization of the Panama Canal Expansion Program;
       In Leadership and Followership Braun considers female leadership issues contrasting
        Asia and America (The Leadership Quarterly), Epitropaki considers causality in
        leadership training research (The Leadership Quarterly), while in his Journal of
        Management article Lord provides a network analysis of leadership theory; and lastly
        Graham was appointed by the Minister of State to be a member of the Steering Group of
        the Front Line Review (FLR) on Policing and the Fire Service;
       In Marketing & International Business Aguzzoli examined interrelated questions about
        the influence of an emerging-economy parent business system and how this interacts
        with the well-developed institutional regulation of the host countries (Journal of
        international Business Studies), and Williams, C used institutional and resource based
        theories linked to agglomeration and clusters to investigate how host country R&D



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        influences ownership decisions made by technology-intensive multinational enterprises
        (MNEs) as they internationalize (Research Policy);
       The Quantitative Research in Finance and Economics centre focuses on all aspects
        of quantitative and empirical financial modelling and draws expertise from areas as
        diverse as applied stochastic modelling, financial econometrics, microstructure and asset
        pricing, publishing on asset pricing, forecasting, volatility modelling, quantitative
        modelling of derivatives and development of new financial technologies (Fintech) in field
        journals such as: the Journal of Econometrics, Review of Finance, Journal of Business
        and Economics, amongst others, as well as attracting significant research income (e.g.,
        ESRC and GCRF programmes and the Qatar National Research Foundation);
       Lastly in Organisations and Society examples of external grant funding include: Ford
        was involved in the ESRC project ‘Raising the ceiling on diversity and inclusion: a
        corporate retail case study’; Bechter was PI on the European Commission Funded
        ‘Social Partner Engagement and Effectiveness in European Dialogue’ project, which was
        also developed into an ICS; Ellis and Tsinopoulos, were involved in a Knowledge
        Transfer Partnership addressing marketing orientation and supply chain management
        with local manufacturer PSP Architectural Ltd., and again this lead to an ICS.
 For the next 5 years, post-REF2021, the focus in DUBS is in line with our overarching mission of
 the School striving to join the top ranked European Business Schools by 2027. With this comes
 a very challenging set of goals for research which include:
    1. Recruiting an additional 9-10 additional staff per year, targeted on increasing research
       strengths across all existing areas but also to develop targeted areas such as
       Entrepreneurship (in February 2020 the School received a £3m donation to establish the
       Wilson Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship), and new strengths in
       Business Analytics (which increase our ability to be part of interdisciplinary areas linked
       to the UK Government’s Industrial Strategy – e.g., AI, disruptive technologies as applied
       to business management, and other aspects of the Industrial Revolution 4.0).
    2. Increasing the international profiles of our research centres with over 50% of outputs
       being judged to be 4* (with the majority of the remainder being at 3* level), increasing
       research income to over £2.5m p.a., maintaining a quality cohort of some 20-25 PhD
       students (of which half receive studentships), developing at least 20 ICS’s for the next
       REF with the majority of other research achieving significant impact and engagement
       though its use by practitioners, policy makers, at a regional, national and international
       level.
    3. Expand the opportunities for more interdisciplinary research, building on our involvement
       with University research institutes (such as the Institute for Hazard, Risk and Resilience,
       the Institute for Data Science and the Durham Energy Institute) and existing
       collaborations with computing and physics, but also using research centres to focus on
       more cross-disciplinary collaborations by offering greater workload and resource
       incentives.


 c. Impact
 The development of impact case studies (ICS) has been facilitated by regular workshops
 outlining how impact is defined, measured, and ways for capturing evidence, and has involved
 sharing progress on each prospective impact case study, to gather feedback and strengthen
 their development. Staff involved in an ICS have received (pro rata) a 100 hour p.a. workload
 allowance, the dedicated help of an Impact Case Officer employed by the School (with further
 assistance from the central Research & Innovation Service where needed), and regular written

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 feedback from the Deputy Executive Dean (Research), as well as feedback as light-touch and
 then more formal reviews have been conducted within the University in preparation for the REF.
 Resources to help develop ICS’s (in addition to the workload allowance) have included access to
 University-administered Research Impact Funding and ESRC IAA funds – with staff in the
 School being successful in obtaining such monies. In addition, the School has its own separate
 policy to allow for additional periods of leave over and above the normal research leave
 available (see section 2 below for details on the latter), in order for staff undertaking ICS’s to
 have uninterrupted time to develop, deepen and conclude each case study.
 Irrespective of whether a staff member has been involved in an ICS, all staff report each year on
 their impact and engagement activities, and plans for the coming period. This is part of annual
 reviews leading to assessments by line managers of staff progress and progression, and there is
 formal feedback during this process. The workshops mentioned above are also open to all staff,
 while the increasing numbers of those involved in research grant income capture receive help,
 feedback and, where needed, training in this area.
 The ICS’s chosen for the REF cover a range of different projects based on underpinning
 research developed over a number of years; the overall approach taken in selecting these has
 been to identify those where there is the clearest evidence of impact having been achieved.
 Most research centres have been involved in at least one of the 20 ICS that were developed
 during the period (e.g., EFAG through Adams, Ahmed and Ferry; CE3 through Aftab; CBID
 through Nicolae and Philip; CMIB through Xiao; CLF through Graham; COS through Bechter and
 Pendleton; and CITM through Fernandes and Ellis & Tsinopoulos). The ICS’s cover a range of
 topic areas, such as: the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and value creation for
 organisations; Developing the National Strategy for Financial Literacy and Financial Inclusion in
 Cyprus; Increasing the impact of international marketing strategies of Brazilian export SMEs;
 Improving New Business Models as a result of Digitisation; The Implementation of Stakeholder-
 Driven Supply Chain Integration; Improving Workplace Factors, Well-being, Integrity and Service
 Behaviour in Policing; Toni & Guy – Achieving Exceptional Service Performance; Social Partner
 Engagement and Effectiveness in European Dialogue SPEEED (2016-2018); Employee
 ownership in action; Effecting Government, Environmental Non-Governmental Organisation and
 Farmers’ approaches to mitigating diffuse agricultural pollution; Informing Policies on Islamic
 financial architecture and the role of Islamic Finance in Sustainable Development; Consumer
 Behaviour, Data Analytics and Behavioural Profiling; Modelling Human Factors in Product Form
 Switching; Future UK Trade Arrangements: Potential Impact of Brexit on the UK Economy; and
 Financial Sustainability, Accountability and Transparency of English Local Government.
 Examples of the wider impact achieved, beyond REF ICSs, is regularly reported in the School’s
 IMPACT magazine, a bi-annual publication since January 2017-
 https://www.dur.ac.uk/business/impact/. Examples of impact arising from research covered in
 the various editions of the magazine include:
    Helping police forces to adapt and survive
    Disney role models and female perceptions
    SDG goals and business strategies
    Ethical goals for workers and organisations
    UK bank resilience
    Dealing with narcissistic bosses
    Austerity and local government
    Exporting in Brazilian SMEs


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     ‘Creative fuse’ project and diversity
     AI and Big Data Analytics in Accounting
     ‘No deal’ Brexit outcomes for the UK economy
     Quality of work post-2008
     Financial literacy in India
     Performance of female entrepreneurs
     Supporting innovation and transformation on Boeing
     Management consultancy for innovation
     Healthcare reform in the NHS


 d. Open research environment; and research integrity
 As stated in the Institutional Environment Statement, Durham University manages open access
 through Durham Research Online and eTheses. DUBS is fully committed to sharing its research
 as widely as possible and adheres to the University policies in these areas (see section 2.4 of
 the Institutional Environment Statement). An example of how DUBS shares and manages
 research data is through providing the Open Durham Risk Lab
 (https://www.dur.ac.uk/business/research/economics/qrfe/) which allows users free access to
 large datasets for assessing risk in different countries of the world.
 Research integrity is assured through our adhering to the University’s policies, guided by being a
 signatory to the research integrity concordat. This involves regular auditing of what we do in this
 area. The School also has its own Research Ethics sub-committee, to ensure all approved
 projects comply with the required norms (see section 2.3 of the Institutional Environment
 Statement).


 Section 2. People
 (a) Staffing strategy and staff development
 Staff on research and teaching contracts have a 50% workload allowance ring-fenced for the
 purposes of undertaking research (this is higher than the University norm of 40%). New junior
 appointments, mostly early career researchers (ECRs), who have not completed the
 Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCap) or recognised equivalent, are given a
 30/20/10% reduction to the normal teaching load in years 1/2/3 of employment. For those with a
 PGCap, the weightings are 20/10/10%. Since 2018, new appointees are typically on probation in
 their first year (previously probation was 3 years), to allow confirmation of expectations set out in
 a probation agreement concluded at the start of the appointment. Given the benchmarks set
 when recruiting new staff, the expectation is that the targets set in this period are more about
 new staff demonstrating their abilities and commitment to undertaking research that will lead to
 quality research outputs, impact and engagement, and over the longer term research grant
 capture.
 All new staff (at all grades) are provided with a mentor, in line with University policies and
 procedures (see section 3.3 of the Institutional Environment Statement). For ECRs there is a
 specific policy in DUBS that sets out expectations, procedures and the help and assistance
 available from their mentor (assigned by their HoD in consultation with the Deputy Executive
 Dean Research, and usually being a senior staff member belonging to the research centre that
 aligns with the research interests of the ECR). The School policy makes clear the role of the

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentor including: meetings with mentees that normally take place up to three times a term in the
 first year (becoming more flexible over time) to cover all aspects of the job, including research
 progression (e.g., supporting, promoting and networking by involving the mentee in research
 activities, and where relevant the mentor directly involving themselves in the development of the
 ECR’s research career – e.g., by writing joint papers – as well as sharing knowledge and cultural
 capital, and assisting in her/his full integration into the academic community of practice in the
 School, University and more broadly), and managing time and setting priorities.
 Resources to support the undertaking of research include: access to an extensive stock of on-
 line journals, databases (e.g., full subscriptions to ORBIS, WRDS, Mintel, Moodys, Thomson
 Research), and computer software (nearly all requests for data, software and journal
 subscriptions are met from an annual DUBS contribution of £881k to cover databases; £78k for
 journals, books, etc.; £80k for computing and software). Staff receive a £1,000 p.a. allowance
 from the University to support research activities, which most use to support conference
 attendance. Departments in DUBS top-up this allowance (by £130k overall p.a.) to provide each
 academic researcher with the ability to attend one international and one national conference per
 year (assuming they are presenting a paper). University Research Leave (free of any teaching or
 administrative duties) is available to fixed-term and permanent staff and is accrued at the rate of
 one term for every seven terms in post (pro rata for part-time staff), allowing staff to take either
 short or longer periods of leave (e.g., one year’s leave after 7 years of continual service). The
 process for applying for leave is straightforward and the only potential constraint – leading to
 occasional flexibility in the timing of leave – is the need for the HoD to provide cover for mainly
 teaching. Maternity (and paternity) leave is available to all staff, and following a period of
 maternity leave there is entitlement to an additional one term of Research Leave (which is
 usually added to accrued standard Research Leave – see section 3.3 of the Institutional
 Environment Statement).
 Most staff are members of research centres (see above), and as stated these receive an annual
 resource of some £200k to allow the staff in each centre to propose world-renowned visitors to
 come and present workshops and give seminars; nominate speakers for internal seminars and
 workshops; and generally facilitating research activities (such as covering special data needs, or
 justifiable additional travel expenses). In addition to this, there is annually £57k for Departmental
 running costs covering such areas as visiting speakers. As outlined above, DUBS also has its
 own Seedcorn fund (up to £2,000 per applicant) for academics to apply for, to facilitate impact
 activities and grant applications; the School operates a 4* policy to support (mostly revise and
 resubmit) papers targeted at the best journals; and the University has a policy that results in
 successful research grants seeing the PI receiving 10% of the overheads (and the School
 receiving a further 10%) to reinvest in research activities.
 Staff are encouraged and supported to engage in editorship roles with journals. During the REF
 period, 116 editorship, associate editorship or membership of editorial boards took place
 involving 49 staff. In addition, since 2019 DUBS has had a Global Fellowship Programme,
 committing up to £100k p.a. to attract world-leading staff from other institutions to spend pro rata
 up to one term per year in Durham, for a period of 3 years. Recent Fellows have included
 Professor Paul Hanges (University of Maryland) and Professor Manthos Delis (Montpellier
 Business School).
 Annually all staff have to submit a customised c.v. to the Departmental Promotion and
 Progression Committee outlining achievements (see section 3.2 of the Institutional Environment
 Statement for further details on how the University manages staff progression). These are
 automatically considered (unless the staff member explicitly requests that this does not happen)
 for advancement in terms of salary increases and/or promotion to a higher grade. The core
 elements assessed relate to publications (especially those deemed to be 4*), grant capture, and
 impact and engagement (as well as teaching and administrative performance). Each Department

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 makes recommendations to their Faculty, who then recommend outcomes to a University
 committee; unsuccessful applicants receive feedback from their HoD on areas for improvement
 to enhance the likelihood of progression the following year. In addition, there are separate ‘merit
 awards’ for outstanding research performance open to all grades, involving one-off (non-
 pensionable) financial payments.




 Figure 1: Recruitment since 2013, Durham University Business School
 DUBS is committed to intensive recruitment to academic teaching and research posts (and
 separately to teaching only posts), in order to achieve critical mass. (The processes set by the
 University in this area are set out in section 3.1 of the Institutional Environment Statement,
 including the ambitious benchmarks new recruits must exceed to be hired.) Each year,
 Departments in DUBS engage in a planning round where additional posts are allocated by the
 University, based on research and teaching needs (for research this is targeted at areas
 identified as strengths and where having sufficient numbers of high quality individuals is most
 important). Since 2013, DUBS has hired 84 (80.5 FTE) new teaching & research staff while 46
 (41.7 FTE) have left – that is, a net annual gain over the seven year period of over 5.5 FTE staff
 per annum. Of the 80.5 FTE hired, 35% were assistant professors, nearly 30% were associate
 professors, thus 35% were professors (the recruitment by department mirrored the distribution of
 the 124.7 FTE research & teaching staff in place in DUBS). All staff involved in recruitment are
 required to have training in recruitment and in unconscious bias. The recruitment process
 includes an equality champion who helps in compiling extensive lists of potential (more senior)
 recruits working in UK, North American and Australasian institutions, contacting these to elicit
 interest, and in addition attending annual recruitment fairs (e.g. American Economic Association)
 and advertising positions both through the annual Durham University recruitment round and out-
 of-round. The proportion of applicants by gender and ethnicity are monitored (see Figure 1), and
 we make particular efforts to recruit under-represented groups through targeted emails and
 meeting them at recruitment events. Since 2013, Figure 1 shows over 47% of recruits were


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 female (above the 34% of staff who are female in DUBS); 23% of new professors were female
 and we continually look to improve our recruitment of senior female teaching and research staff.
 Figure 1 also shows that applications from non-white staff are higher than from white, although
 the conversion rate into appointments is lower for such staff (1.8% versus 3.1%) and this needs
 more analysis to understand why this is the case. At the interview stage, equality and diversity
 questions are standing items to assess the commitment of future appointees to supporting the
 aspirations and processes adopted by the University to ensure that a fair and diverse academic
 community is present within DUBS.
 DUBS has the Bronze award from Athena Swan, and is actively working towards the Silver
 Award (with the support of a dedicated Faculty equality, diversity and inclusion - EDI - postholder
 who is a member of the School’s research staff). All committees that report to the Faculty and
 Departmental Boards of Studies (including the School and Faculty Research Committees) have
 standing items on their agendas dealing with EDI issues, such as recruitment, advancement of
 staff, the proportion applying for Seedcorn and 4* funding, grant application rates (including
 success rates), etc. Thus the issues of equality and diversity are regularly considered, and we
 are aware (and take action where possible) to ensure that all staff are afforded the same
 opportunities free from (unconscious) bias to achieve their research potential while employed in
 DUBS. Other University led initiatives (such as being a signatory to the Race Equality Charter)
 which shows the overall commitment to EDI are set out in section 3.3 of the Institutional
 Environment Statement.
 There are relatively few post-doc RFs in DUBS (usually around 7 FTE vis-à-vis 124.7 FTE staff
 on teaching & research contracts) and 5 FTE fixed-term research assistants. PDRFs have
 mentors, access to the full range of research resources available (including conference
 attendance); all contract research staff are managed, mentored, trained, and helped in their
 careers through our adherence to the University’s programmes (see section 3.4 of the
 Institutional Environment Statement).
 DUBS has an Associate Dean (Impact and Engagement) with responsibility for maintaining,
 broadening and strengthening business links and involvement with government and other
 bodies. In the current REF period for example, Ferry was a Parliamentary Fellow; Harris a
 member of the Economy & Trade Group in DIT, and a member of the NE LEP and Tees Valley’s
 Local Industrial Strategy Steering Groups; Fernandes a vice-chair for the UK National
 Commission for UNESCO; Tilba a Member of the UK Law Commission Advisory Board on the
 Consultation on Fiduciary Duties of Investment Intermediaries; Adams Chair of the Global
 Reporting Initiative’s Stakeholder Council; Bernd a member of the Advisory Committee of
 Eurofound (European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions);
 Jamasb a member of Ofgem’s academic panel.
 Finally, as mentioned above, there are additional incentives and rewards for staff obtaining
 grants awards, most of which are particular to DUBS (additional workload allowance and 10% of
 the overhead paid into their Personal Research Accounts) and impact activities (100 hours of
 workload if developing an ICS; additional Research Leave over and above standard allowances
 to complete an ICS).




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (b) Research students
 The figures for completions for the current REF period are

                            PhDs               Professional (DBA)                 Total

  2013-2014                 31.75                        3                       34.75
  2014-2015                 36                           6                       42
  2015-2016                 25.25                        7                       32.25
  2016-2017                 30.5                         8                       38.5
  2017-2018                 30.25                        4                       34.25
  2018-2019                 29.25                        6                       35.25

  Total                    183                         34                       217

 Table 1: Numbers of completed doctoral students
 In the REF 2014 period, DUBS recorded 103.2 research student completions (the figure for RAE
 2008 was 48.65). All faculty involved in supervisions receive (pro rata) 52 hours workload for
 supervising, shared between usually two supervisors. There is a cap on the number of
 supervisions allowed per staff member to ensure that supervision is maintained at a high level in
 terms of quality; most staff involved have at most 2-3 PGR students at any one time.
 DUBS offers usually up to 8-10 full PhD studentships per year (allocated across the research
 centres); in addition, we bid for ESRC studentships from the Northern Ireland-North East (NINE)
 Doctoral Training Partnership usually securing around 2-4 additional studentships p.a. Since
 2019, we have also bid for Post-doctoral fellowships. To date, DUBS spending on scholarships
 in the current REF cycle has exceeded £2.3 million.
 All PhD students are allocated to a research centre and are required to attend the many events
 that centres organise. They also receive PhD training via courses (mostly in their first year)
 which differ across subject area to reflect the research methods they will employ, although all
 our students attend a general course on research methods where they learn about qualitative
 and quantitative approaches, and differing research philosophies. Some of the courses are more
 general to help with securing employment or further research positions after their PhD/DBA.
 Additional training on specialised courses (e.g. statistical methods) is provided on the
 recommendation of their supervisors, who regularly review training needs as part of the ongoing
 PGR process. One example is a training programme built around industry-led case studies and
 an accredited min-MBA offered to PhD students through two 2-week residential courses (note
 this is also open to PhD students across the University). Another is the Postgraduate
 Researcher Development Programme, a University imitative open to PhD students from all
 disciplines and which is delivered by the Durham Centre for Academic Development (DCAD).
 DBA students receive specific training and are required to attend a greater number of modules,
 as part of their degrees – which include a Global DBA, a DBA based at Durham and a Fudan
 DBA. DUBS is also a member (and pays an annual subscription to support the work) of the
 Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative (NARTI) – a partnership with most of the
 Universities located in Northern England. Students from DUBS regularly attend NARTI training
 events. As another example of our involvement in training, the QRFE research centre also
 provides, through its external seminar programme, part of the accredited advanced quantitative
 methods training for the NINE-Doctoral Training Partnership.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All PhD students are provided with financial help to attend training and conferences. The
 spending allocated to PhD conference attendance is £45k p.a.; allocations for training are
 generally £1.4k p.a. per student. There is a dedicated PhD workspace with 35 places in the
 current Mill Hill Lane site along with another 30 spaces housed in the nearby Islamic Finance
 Doctoral Training Centre (IFDTC). These facilities ensure that doctoral students have ample
 space to work near their supervisors.
 All PGR students are formally monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are progressing
 smoothly towards completion of their degrees within usually 3-4 years. There is a 9-month initial
 review (and mini-viva) that confirms progression to the next stage, and then confirmation and
 completion reviews in years 2 and 3.


 (c) Equality and diversity
 As mentioned above, DUBS has the Bronze award from Athena Swan, and committees have
 standing items on their agendas to ensure that issues of equality and diversity are regularly
 considered, and action is taken, to ensure that all staff are afforded the same opportunities free
 from (unconscious) bias to achieve their research potential while employed in DUBS.
 Those returning from parental leave are entitled to an additional one term of Research Leave (in
 addition to standard Research Leave), to provide an additional opportunity to re-engage with
 their research projects. All staff are accorded the same opportunities to present their work at
 conferences, access to all research facilities, and help and encouragement to succeed in their
 research. With research grant applications, staff who feel themselves in any way disadvantaged
 (or lacking in necessary experience) are encouraged to work closely with our Research Grants
 Officer and/or our Impact & Engagement Officer, to obtain help and guidance. HoDs and
 research centre leads regularly discuss such issues with their staff, and the Departmental
 Research Committees (comprising a mix of grades and of elected and nominated staff) and
 research centres are tasked with monitoring progress in these areas.
 Table 2: Papers selected for Category A staff for REF 2021 (UoA 17)
                                                        No.
                                                       papers      Expected                     No. of
  Ethnicity                                           selected     (2.5FTE)         Ratio       staff
  White English/Welsh/Scottish/Northern
  Irish/British                                          63           60              1.05       28
  Any other White background                           126          122               1.04       53
  Chinese                                                60           68              0.89       27
  All other ethnicities                                  41           58              0.71***    24
  Other characteristics
  Female                                                 79           94              0.84       40
  Early-career researcher (ECR)                          25           48              0.53***    19
 *** Difference in means statistically significant at 1% level on a paired t-test.


 With regard to the REF submission, a process based solely on the quality of outputs was
 followed to produce REF2, regardless of gender and ethnicity. Table 2 shows the outcome of the
 selection process, which might suggest unintended bias is present, based on actual and
 expected numbers of papers selected, for the residual ethnic sub-group, and for ECRs.
 However, a rigorous statistical model was estimated (based on ordered probit) where the


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 number of papers selected per individual (1 up to a maximum of 5) was regressed on a person’s
 characteristics (gender, ethnicity, ECR status) plus their average grade point average (GPA)
 based on their best 5 papers available for selection. Only the GPA variable plus ECR status
 were statistically significant. That is, applying regression techniques that control for covariations
 between the variables being used to assess the number of papers selected, the results show
 that the quality of the papers available was the main driver for selection, alongside ECRs being
 less likely to have larger numbers of papers selected. The latter arises because ECRs have
 fewer quality papers available for selection, which is to be expected given their early career
 status. (The full results of the modelling are available to download and examine at
 https://www.dropbox.com/s/tmzxcuqji2nad2d/REF%20selection%20of%20outputs%20in%20Uo
 A%2017.pdf?dl=0).
 Of the ICS’s, 3 (or 33.3%) of these are led by female staff. The University received requests for
 output reductions to REF2 amounting to 7 outputs (some 2% of our required submissions), for
 mostly periods of parental and sickness leave and also from some ECRs, but this is considered
 to be in line with what would be expected from a large faculty for the REF period covered;
 consequently, no request for a reduction in outputs has been made as part of our REF2
 submission.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities




 Figure 2: Research expenditure current REF period – percentage by source


 (a) Research funding
 As in the 2014 REF, DUBS continues to regard funding as a means to build research capacity,
 not as an end in itself. Total research spending rose from £3.9 million for REF 2014 to £4.64
 million (based on 2013-14 to 2018-19). We have secured a number of major grants over the
 REF period, building capacity in complementary ways. Taken together such grants reflect the
 type of School we wish to be: international, interdisciplinary and affecting real-world practice.
 The variety of sources of our research income (Figure 2) reflects the breadth of research
 interests within the School. Examples include:


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RCUK –            a range of grants from EPSRC (e.g., £145k for the Centre for Energy Systems
                   Integration – Jasamb; £145k for New Economic Models and Opportunities for
                   Digital Games – Fernandes); AHRC (e.g., £177k for Creative Fuse project –
                   Hardy); and ESRC (e.g., £372k for the Living Deltas project – Aftab; £319k for
                   Experimental assessment for the societal impact of algorithmic traders in asset
                   markets – Shachat; £93k for Manufacturing renaissance in industrial regions?
                   Investigating the potential of advanced manufacturing for sectoral and spatial
                   rebalancing and £47k for the Productivity Insights Network– Harris and Moffat;
                   £61k for looking at democratic practices in workplaces - Griffin).
 EU Government – e.g., £255k for European, National and Transnational Industrial (Entire View)
                – Brandl; £165k for Adaptive Management of Barriers in European Rivers
                (AMBER) – Scarpa; and £99k for Socio-Economics meets Security
                (SECONOMICS) – Williams, J; £84k for Individual action through social
                organizations: the case of poverty (IATSO) – Wu, C-H.
 UK Charities –      e.g., £166k from the British Academy for The journey of female
                   entrepreneurs in Yorkshire: an oral history study – Dean; and £120k from
                   Millfield House Foundation for Research Support to North East Child Poverty
                   Commission - Strategic Partnership – Mawson.
 Industry –          e.g. £352k from GFI Fenics (studentships) – Williams, J; £66k from Royal
                   London Mutual Insurance Society Ltd for a studentship – Slack; £30k from Toni
                   & Guy for Toni & Guy 'Exceptional Customer Experience' – Graham.
 UK Government – e.g., Innovate UK provided £164k for the SWITCH project – Xiao; £108k from
                Department for Communities and Local Government for Creativity Works –
                Hardey; £33k from Environment Agency on Land Use Change - Aftab.
 Other sources –     e.g., £1.5m from the US Army Research Institute for Advancing Leadership
                   Research – Lord, Braun & Epitropaki; £375k from the Shaarani Group for
                   Ethical Finance Research Fund – Abdelsalam; £173k for a KTP grant to
                   support KHWS – Xiao; £45k from College of Policing for Workforce factors on
                   the achievement of excellence in service delivery – Graham.
 In terms of strategies for generating grant income, the direct incentives introduced since 2016
 have already been mentioned, such as 10% of grant overheads are returned to PIs who secure
 income and a further 10% is returned to DUBS for reinvestment; in addition, the DUBS workload
 model adds the extra time commitment made for such grants to workload allowances, over and
 above the 50% allocation all research staff receive. We also have a dedicated Research Grants
 Officer who spends 50% of her time meeting with staff to encourage applications, providing help
 and guidance, targeting areas and individuals, and generally taking staff through the process,
 drawing on examples of successful bids. Research centres are also tasked with encouraging
 grant capture (many of the grants highlighted above are through such activities which are set out
 in annual plans, monitored by the Deputy Executive Dean for research), and these are often led
 by staff (e.g., Abdelsalam, Scarpa, Williams J, and Lord) who have the experience and expertise
 to help others become more successful. This especially – when involving the mentoring of ECRs
 – helps to maintain the long-term growth of grant income success.
 DUBS also offers seed corn funding (£2k per application up to a total of some £40k p.a. for the
 School) to encourage the development of larger grant and/or impact bids. The University also
 offers seed corn funding, and the central Research & Innovation Services are a source of
 dedicated help for staff engaged in this area.
 Research centres in DUBS are especially tasked with generating income, and applications for
 grants are internally peer-reviewed (those of a more significant value at University level which

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 involves ‘pitch-to-peers’ events) in order to provide feed-back to strengthen the likelihood of
 success. Workshops also take place each year to pass on the experience and knowledge of
 staff who have been successful in the past, especially aimed at early career researchers.
 (b) Infrastructure and facilities supporting the research environment
 Research support is provided at both a University- and local-level. Regarding the former, there
 are 5 teams operated by RIS: Research Operations provides DUBS academics with support in
 making grant applications, award set-up and post-award support; Research Development
 provides strategic grant application support with dedicated help for DUBS tailored to the types of
 grants/funders most relevant to us; Partnerships and Engagement help DUBS engage with a
 wider set of external stakeholders, including local business partnerships (e.g. LEPs and
 Business Durham) and the UK Government (especially DIT and BEIS); the Commercial and
 Economic Development team is especially relevant to DUBS via fostering specific strategic
 relationships and projects (examples include DUBS involvement with the UK national and local
 industrial strategy); and lastly the Research Policy team look after the overall level of
 governance and ethics underpinning research and to which DUBS adheres.
 The University’s Computer and Information Services (CIS) ensures all staff have the required
 hardware and software needed to undertake their research. In addition, there are very good high
 performance computing facilities (provided via Advanced Research Computing) available to the
 increasing numbers of staff who need this level of computing power to handle large data and
 complex modelling. Further details are provided in section 4.3 of the Institutional Environment
 Statement.
 In 2013 most staff were located at either the Mill Hill Lane site or at the Stockton campus. In
 2017-18, all DUBS staff were consolidated on a single site (Mill Hill Lane) which had undergone
 substantial refurbishment in 2012-13. Early on in the next REF cycle, it is planned that the
 University will relocate DUBS into a new purpose-built location costing some £60m+ (before the
 Covid-19 pandemic this was planned to be on the Waterside in Durham City, and while the
 University remains committed to the investment, detailed plans have been put on hold during
 2020-21 academic year). This will have state-of-the art research facilities, including a new
 Experimental lab and SME incubator space. It is also expected that in line with growing the staff
 base (and growing surplus income), DUBS will continue to invest more to maintain its world-
 class research facilities.
 In addition to dedicated IT support within the School, DUBS researchers are also supported by a
 range of School-based professional staff who specialise in corporate relations, fundraising,
 public relations and marketing, and by staff at a university level who specialise in issues such as
 research grant capture, business innovation services and media communications. These staff
 support activities such as conferences and web marketing; they also help establish links with
 corporate and public sector partners and support research briefings and the showcasing of
 research findings.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 DUBS places a major emphasis on international research collaboration to underpin and extend
 its research profile, ranging from fully-funded bi-lateral or multi-lateral research projects (some
 involving formal partnerships) to more informal bi-lateral collaborations with Faculty elsewhere.
 During the REF period we have developed formal relationships where a web of activities takes
 place with: the Management Centre Innsbruck in Austria (with a focus on digital
 entrepreneurship); with Fudan University in China (Finance); Emlyon Business School in France
 (Innovation Management); the European Business School in Germany (Leadership); and


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dartmouth College in the US (Cyber Security). Other less intensive research partnerships are
 with departments and Business Schools covering four major continents – 36 in Europe (including
 Russia); 2 in the USA; 6 in Asia; and 1 in South America. Lastly, during the 2014-20 period we
 have identified, using SciVal data, the extent of our internationally and nationally co-authored
 papers – in Accounting and Management & Marketing these amounted to 620 publications with
 461 institutions (including single-authored papers); in Economics & Finance, there were 459
 publications with 382 institutions. Figure 3 shows the break-down with between 49-55% of all
 publications involving international collaboration, and between a further 19-22% involving
 authors outside Durham University.




 Figure 3: DUBS publications, 2014-20: percent by collaborator
                                                                              Source: SciVal data


 More specific examples of the contribution of DUBS research centres to internationalisation and
 engagement during 2018-19 (over and above their more usual role of organising seminars
 delivered by world-leading speakers, and bringing together academics and PGRs in an
 intellectual and social stimulating environment) are set out in Chart 1 (below), which provides a
 snap-shot of recent activity illustrating the work of the research centres. Similar activities have
 taken place since 2017, helping the School to build an even more dynamic research
 environment, collaborating and contributing to the wider research community.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chart 1: Examples of Research Centre collaborative and impact engagements in 2018-19:

     On impact, CBID members were involved in co-authoring on a high-level government
      White Paper commissioned by Central Bank of Cyprus; while Nicolae was invited to
      provide written evidence multiple times to the UK Parliament’s International Trade Select
      Committee.
     Through a joint workshop with the University of York, DREAM initiated the inaugural
      Durham Economic Theory Conference that attracted top international researchers.
     CEMAP members Eugeni and Damianovic became committee members of the Money-
      Macro-Finance (MMF) Research Group in 2018, joining economics colleagues from the
      LSE, Warwick and Cambridge.
     As part of a Newton Fund project, EFAG was working with the Istanbul Sehir University
      to develop the ‘The Sustainable Development Goals Network’ (SDGN). In addition,
      Adams advised the UK Financial Reporting Council in response to a consultation on the
      Draft Revised Stewardship Code in February 2019, the Australian Senate Verbal
      evidence in the Hansard Inquiry on the Sustainable Development Goals in October
      2018, and the UK Government’s Environmental Audit Committee in response to the
      Green Finance Inquiry in February 2018.
     CEMBR hosted an international workshop on the Societal Impact of Algorithmic and
      High Frequency Trading on the 6th and 7th June, 2019. Involving top international
      scholars Professor Shyam Sunder (Yale University), Elena Asparouhova (University of
      Utah) and Jasmina Arifovic (Simon Fraser University). In addition, Vernon L. Smith
      (winner of the Nobel Prize 2002) and Peter Bossaerts (University of Melbourne) provided
      a presentation at the Humanomics Symposium held on the 5th June.
     CITM has been one of only three university research centres in the world invited to be a
      member of the Design Thinking Exchange; and Pitsis was made a Fellow of IACCM
      www.iaccm.com.
     Research by the CLF policing unit had an extensive practical focus, engaging most all
      UK constabularies and being an important input to policy at the highest levels in the UK.
      Multidisciplinary research was conducted internationally with colleagues from Chile, to
      the US, to EU, to Kenya through an ARI grant and through other faculty connections.
     In recent years, members of CMIB have taken on roles as journal editors or
      Editorial/Review Board members (e.g. APJM, ABM); presented at major conferences
      (e.g. AIB, AMA, AOM) and organized research events (e.g., the International Seminar of
      Exporting in Challenging Times, the 2019 ICIG International Symposium) in order to
      Influence and inform international debate; and worked widely with external organizations
      (e.g. SWITCH, DECIDE, KHWS, the Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support
      Service) to raise impact on industries and communities.
     CQRFE is a leading partner in the current Matariki round involving joint research
      ventures (including three research workshops) in 2019-20 with Dartmouth University. In
      addition to a long-standing arrangement with GFI Fenics, the Centre undertook work with
      MoneyCorp to train a quantitative researcher and they had ongoing and extensive
      discussions in regard to their Blockchain work, including the completed filing of their first
      two patents.
     Leading scholars from many UK HEIs attended in 2019 a 1 day COS conference by Ford
      on gender and leadership; this was in addition to a 1 day symposium by Learmonth on
      gender and work. The Centre was well represented at the AoM conf. in Boston.
      Learmonth and Morrell successfully bid for the 10th International Doctoral Consortium to
      be at Durham, hosted by COS.

 In addition to business and other links set out above, a number of other staff have held high
 profile positions and responsibilities. For example:
       Adams was a member of the Sustainability Panel of the Institute of Chartered
        Accountants of Scotland, a member of the ACCA’s Global Sustainability Forum, and a
        member of the Technical Working Group of the Climate Disclosure Standards Board.

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Basu was appointed as a visiting scholar in the Bank of Japan; he also was awarded the
        Jewel of India Award, 2020, recognising his “outstanding services, contribution and
        achievement” in the field of economics, particularly his research on the Indian
        macroeconomy.
       Bechter was a member of the executive committee of the International Labour and
        Employment Relations Association at the ILO.
       Fernandes was Executive Director for the North East Local Enterprise Partnership’s
        Innovation Observatory and Director of the Global Gateway’s Federation.
       Ferry was a consultant for the NAO and Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local
        Government, and a regular adviser for the Crown Agents; as well as a Parliamentary
        Academic Fellow to the Department of Housing, Communities and Local Committee.
       Harris was seconded to the New Zealand Productivity Commission, and was the
        University representative on the NE LEP Evidence Forum. He also is an invited member
        on DIT’s Economy & Trade Panel, which advises senior civil servants and ministers on
        trade and McBride was President of the British Universities Industrial Relations
        Association.
       Moore was a founder member and research lead of the North East Child Poverty
        Commission.
       Philip was as Member of SERRAQ’s Risk Accounting Standards Board (RASB); and an
        advisor to Heartwood Skills.
       Pitsis was appointed to the leadership of the Academy of Management’s strategic
        committee on practice.
       Saha was an Economic Advisor to the Bombay Chamber of Commerce, India.
       Scarpa was a lead consultant and author of “Stated choice survey for the value estimate
        of the customer reliability in the Australian National Electricity Market”, a nationwide
        survey report to the Australian Energy Market Operator, Melbourne; he was also OECD
        country member representative in the first National Panel for Academic Promotion in
        Public Economics, Italy, Italian Ministry of University and Scientific Research; a
        consultant National Environmental Protection Agency Government of Jamaica
        “Biodiversity Valuation”; and Lead consultant for the Waikato Regional Council for the
        economic modelling of the effect of environmental restrictions to farming activities in the
        Waikato and Waipa catchment “Healthy River”, Hamilton, New Zealand.
       Slack was chair of The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales
        (ICAEW) Tyne and Wear branch.
       Tilba was an academic advisor for the UK Financial Conduct Authority, Competitions and
        Markets Authority and the Pensions Regulator; a member of the Centre for the Study of
        Financial Innovation; a member of the UK Sustainable Investment and Finance
        Association; a member of the Pension Investment Academy; and an Ambassador for the
        UK Transparency Taskforce, which is the collaborative, campaigning community,
        dedicated to driving up the levels of transparency in financial services, right around the
        world.
       In conjunction with GFI-Fenics and BGC partners the QRFE research centre (particularly
        Williams J) delivers benchmark synthetic volatility indices for FX options prices use by
        traders through the Fenics professional platform.
 During the REF period, involvement in editorships, associate editorships or memberships of
 editorial boards include the following examples: Abdelsalam was an Editor with the Journal of

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Financial Markets Institutions and Money; Adams who was founding editor and Editor-in-Chief of
 Sustainability Accounting, Management and Accountability Journal; Addison was a member of
 the Editorial Board of Open Economics; Panayiottis was Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editor of
 Multinational Finance Journal; Asutay was a member of the Editorial Advisory Board of the
 Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research; Bernd was on the Editorial Board of the
 German Journal of Industrial Relations; Braun was Associate Editor for Frontiers in Psychology;
 Clark was President of the British Academy of Management and on the Editorial Board of the
 British Journal of Management, and the Journal of Management Studies; Dixon was on the
 Editorial Board of Accounting and Organisational Change; Ellis was on the Editorial Boards of
 the Review of Marketing Theory, the Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing and the Journal
 of Marketing Management; Epitropaki was Associate Editor for Frontiers in Psychology:
 Organizational Psychology and Leadership Quarterly; Ferry was on the Editorial Board of
 Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Accounting Forum, and Accounting,
 Auditing and Accountability Journal; Ford was on the Editorial Board of Gender, Work and
 Organisation, the Human Relations Journal, Organization, Organisation Studies and the
 Leadership Journal; Hall was on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Organizational Behavior;
 Hashimzade was co-editor of the Journal of Tax Administration; Humphreys was senior editor for
 Organizational Studies; Jamasb was Associate Editor of Energy Strategy Reviews; Larson was
 Editor-in-Chief of Arts and the Market; Lau was an Editorial Board Member and Associate Editor
 for the Journal of Behavioural and Experimental Economics; Learmonth was Senior Editor for
 Organization Studies; Lee was an Editorial Board Member for the Journal of Computer
 Information Systems; Lengler was an Associate Editor of Global Economics and Management
 Review; Lord was an Editorial Board Member for the journals Leadership Quarterly,
 Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes; McBride was an Associate Editor for
 Work, Employment and Society; Moore was an Editorial Board Member for the journals
 Business Ethics: A European Review, Business Ethics Quarterly, and the Journal of Business
 Ethics; Pendleton was an Editorial Board Member of the British Journal of Industrial Relations,
 International Journal of Human Resource Management, and the Journal of Employee
 Participation and Ownership; Pitsis was an Editorial Board Member of the Journal of Leadership
 and Organization Studies and the Journal of Strategic Contracting and Negotiation; Saha was
 Associate Editor of the Journal of Quantitative Economics; Scarpa an Associate Editor of the
 following journals – Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics, Food Policy,
 and the European Review of Agricultural Economics; Slack was an Editorial Board Member for
 the journals Accounting and Business Research, the Journal of Applied Accounting Research,
 and the Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal; Sutherland was Associate
 Editor of Asian Business and Management; Tsinopoulos was an Editorial Board Member for the
 Journal of Product Innovation Management, and the Journal of Manufacturing Technology
 Management; Wisse was an Editorial Board Member for Leadership Quarterly; and Wu was an
 Editorial Board Member for the Journal of Business Research, the Journal of Business and
 Psychology, and Human Relations.
 Several staff have also been the recipients of ‘best paper’ awards; examples include: Ferry in
 the journals of Public Money and Management, Qualitative Research in Accounting and
 Management and the Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change; He in the SYSBS
 International Symposium on Frontier Management Research; Learmonth and Morrell in the
 Academy of Management Learning and Education; Learmonth in Management Learning.
 Morell was awarded a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship in 2015; Pitsis was a member of
 the Newton Foundation grant committee and an assessor of ESRC international projects;
 Taamouti was a member of the grant committee for the Social Sciences and Humanities
 Research Council, Government of Canada and he becomes a member of the Econometric Society
 Regional Standing Committee in 2021; Tilba was a Policy Fellow at Cambridge University Centre
 for Science and Policy; Williams, J was a member of the Turing Fellowship Grant Assessment

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Panel Membership (as ESRC representative) and he is a ESRC Senior Member of the Peer
 College.




                                                                                   Page 20
