Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Surrey

 Unit of Assessment: UOA 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen
 Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 In 2020 Music and Sound Recording at University of Surrey marked its 50th anniversary as a
 research-based department built on the mutual enrichment of the arts and sciences. During the
 REF2021 assessment period, and after the University disbanded the School of Arts, the
 Department of Music and Media (DMM) was re-constituted to expand on this longstanding Music
 and Sound Recording base. It did so in recognition of the dynamically changing and merging
 worlds of creative arts theory and practice, sound engineering, and digital technologies in the
 21st century, and through strategic investment in infrastructure and people (staff and PGR
 communities), industry partnerships, and targeted research income streams.

 Research activity in DMM has grown since 2013 to encompass interlinked fields in acoustic-,
 spatial audio-, and video-engineering, sound art, media informatics, digital media arts, and
 music. It leads the international research agenda through:
    a) pioneering Research-Council-funded work in
             (i) psychoacoustics and spatial audio in their development from experimentation,
                 through engineering, to industry application and artistic expression
             (ii) life-changing exploration of assistive digital media for health and society
    b) the founding and steering of a worldwide network of creative practice research centred
       on the guitar
    c) musicological work of global excellence in 19th- and 20th-century music: Mahler studies,
       British music, screen music (and intermedial studies), biography and autoethnography

 Structure
 DMM’s research landscape builds around four interrelated fields of international excellence,
 each represented by Professorial staff and an associated Research Centre through which a
 proportion of the research is focussed:

 Sound Recording (SR) and Video Technology (VT)

        The Institute of Sound Recording (IoSR) (founded 1998, headed by Brookes) pursues
        world-class research in psychoacoustic engineering, offers research-based MPhil/PhD
        programmes, and hosts the globally recognised Tonmeister® BMus in Music & Sound
        Recording. Alongside VT research in video processing, audiovisual transmission and
        display, SR engage in state-of-the-art interdisciplinary research combining acoustics,
        human perception, signal processing, computer science, and business.

 Media Informatics and Digital Media Arts (DMA)

        The Digital World Research Centre (DWRC) (founded 1998, headed by Frohlich)
        undertakes socially beneficial interdisciplinary research projects through collaborations
        internally with Centre for Vision, Speech and Signal Processing (CVSSP), Electronic
        Engineering, Hospitality and Tourism Management (SHTM), Psychology, Health and Medical


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Sciences, Translation Studies, and Business, as well as externally with universities in Brazil,
         to study the creation, consumption, and technological enhancement of digital media.

 Music

 Composition, Performance and Sound Art

         The International Guitar Research Centre (IGRC) (founded 2014, headed by Goss and
         Mermikides, Hon. President John Williams OBE; see impact case study (ICS) ‘International
         Guitar Research Centre: Innovations in 21st-Century Guitar Theory and Practice’) is the
         world’s leading hub for guitar research, supported through a global network of partners:
         Guitar Foundation of America, HK Academy for Performing Arts, Altamira Foundation
         (China), International Guitar Research Archive (CSUN, USA), 21st-Century Guitar (Canada,
         Portugal), International Guitar Foundation (London), EuroStrings (EU).

 Musicology

         The Institute of Austrian and German Music Research (IAGMR) (founded 2018, headed
         by Barham, Hon. President Erik Levi (RHUL)), provides a forum for renewed scholarly
         investigation of Austrian and German musical culture, supported by an international
         Advisory Board of 21 distinguished scholars and cultural curators from Europe and the
         USA.

 Research and impact strategy
 Through interrelated research in sound, music, and image, DMM realised its objective during the
 REF2021 period to produce world-leading (inter)disciplinary research outputs — written,
 creative, technology- and science-based — that advance artistic/scientific, theoretical/practical,
 and contemporary/historical knowledge and understanding, generating demonstrable socio-
 cultural impact, and cutting-edge industry application.

 DMM’s research is configured for multiple forms of impact: from patents and engineering
 applications (IoSR), to material improvements in societal wellbeing (DWRC), and creative
 enrichment and cultural understanding through compositional and musicological engagement
 (see ICSs: ‘International Guitar Research Centre’, and ‘New Directions in Spatial Audio Art’).
 These strategic developments have successfully met the REF2014 aims:
 ‘To strengthen, build and nurture links with regional, national and international partners’
 ‘To expand and intensify the research activity in contemporary creative practices’
 ‘To sustain systematically the production of outputs of high quality’
 ‘To increase student numbers and consolidate the quality of … PGR activity’
 DMM has facilitated this impact through strategic staff and PGR recruitment, internal and
 external support (research leave, mentoring, funding, and logistics), and investment in physical
 and cultural research infrastructure, thereby positioning itself at the forefront of constituent and
 combined specialisms in music and media arts and sciences.

 Interdisciplinary, internationally collaborative, and open-access mindsets, essential to DMM’s
 ethos, integrate research across specialisms: primarily that of Myatt (a leading authority in
 spatial audio engineering and aesthetics — see ICS ‘New Directions’), De Sena (data
 sonification), Frohlich (digital technologies and health), Mermikides and Hall (science-based and

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 algorithmic creative practice). Work in cognitive film theory, screen music studies, and
 contemporary media design (Poulaki, Barham, Weinbren) similarly complements the industry
 and engineering foci of video production research.

 Evidence of achievement and impact

 Sound recording and video technology
 Discipline-heading research in these areas is disseminated through international conferences,
 leading journal or book publications, and industry collaborations. Brookes, Coleman, and De
 Sena have produced over 70 co-authored outputs (55 open access; JAES, The Journal of the
 Acoustical Society of America, Applied Acoustics), with Mason, staff across Surrey Schools,
 external and international collaborators, and postdoc researchers.

 The IoSR has led/collaborated on 10 research projects, including the €3M EC H2020-funded
 ‘Audio Commons’ project, whose timbral prediction algorithms gained significant commercial
 take-up; and the £5.4M EPSRC-funded ‘S3A Future Spatial Audio’ project, whose Media Device
 Orchestration system has been used by the BBC.

 Myatt’s research unites technical and artistic insights in spatial audio to produce installations
 with global impact in urgent fields of conservation (see Myatt ICS). De Sena and Mermikides
 collaborate, through programming and music technology, with the Telethon Institute of Genetics
 and Medicine (Italy) on the ‘Covid-19 Listening Project’ in data sonification, deepening
 communicative understanding of the virus’s phylogenetic tree.

 Focussing routes to impact, and ‘strengthen[ing], build[ing], and nurtur[ing] links with
 regional, national and international partners’ (REF2014), IoSR and VT groupings have
 further developed collaborative research links:

    a) internally with Engineering and Computing Departments at Surrey, CVSSP (H2020-
       funded ‘Audio Commons’ and EPSRC-funded ‘S3A’ projects) and Business School
       (‘Audio Commons Project’)

    b) externally with:
        (i) industry: BBC R&D (‘S3A’, ‘Audio un-mixing’), Wolfson Microelectronics, Cirrus
             Logic (‘Microphone quality metering and enhancement’), Bang & Olufsen (‘Towards
             objective assessment of spatial audio quality of loudspeaker-based systems in cars’,
             ‘Sound quality evaluation and modelling for domestic AV reproduction systems’)
        (ii) HE/cultural organisations and events:
               • Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) (‘Audio
                 Commons’); Universities of Southampton, Salford (‘S3A’), Swansea (Coleman,
                 EPSRC-supported 2018 CHERISH digital economy crucible)
               • (Myatt sound art installations): ZKM (Germany), MoMA (NY), NY Dept. of
                 Transport, Tate Modern, MONA (Australia), GES-2 Gallery (Moscow), Le
                 Fresnoy Audiovisual Research Centre (France), Art Basel (Miami), EMPAC
                 (USA), Norwegian National Art Gallery (Oslo). (Software implementations of
                 De Sena’s Scattering Delay Network (SDN), and Perceptual Soundfield
                 Reconstruction (PSR)): Click Festival (Denmark), Christie’s (NY), Guildhall Art
                 Gallery, RADA, V&A Museum, Playlines AR Studio, Mixed Immersion 3D Audio
                 Company, Kimatica Art Studio, The Royal Society


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Patents have been granted and commercial applications derived from the IoSR research
 projects listed above as well as from ‘Perceptually Optimised Sound Zones’: see Section 4
 below.

 Media Informatics and Digital Media Arts
 DWRC has managed 13 funded projects (EPSRC, Digital Economy, Innovate UK) structured
 around direct public-facing impact, beginning with the Composers Notebook (Com-Note), and
 focussing on ‘assistive media’: UK-Brazil network on Assistive Media for Health and Wellbeing in
 Ageing, Next Generation Paper, Augmented Reading and Writing Experiences, Immersive
 Sound and Image to Depict Experiences of Blindness, New Media Innovation in Journalism,
 Creative M-Learning Technology for Rural Malaysia.

 Also working ‘to strengthen, build and nurture links with regional, national and
 international partners’, the UK-Brazil network on Assistive media, for example, in collaboration
 with University of São Paulo (USP) and Federal University of São Carlos (UFSCAR), combines
 multiple research strands across these institutions to implement real-world therapeutic uses of
 digital media for enhancing mental health and wellbeing in elderly populations.

 Funded by EPSRC (‘Content creation and consumption in the digital economy’ call), the £1.17M
 Next Generation Paper project (in collaboration with SHTM and others at Surrey, Exeter and
 Open Universities, and industry partners HP, Otava Publishing, Ifolor Photo Printing, and
 Novacentrix) developed novel paper materials with embedded sensors allowing internet
 interactions via hyperlinks, creating new technology and business opportunities in the publishing
 and tourism industries.

 Design and application of DWRC’s new technology prototypes are further described in Section
 4. below.

 Music

 Music research in creative-practice, cross-medial, technological, and critical-theoretical areas
 supports five degree programmes, and achieves the REF2014 goals ‘To expand and intensify
 the research activity in contemporary creative practices’, ‘To sustain systematically the
 production of outputs of high quality’, and ‘To strengthen, build and nurture links with
 regional, national and international partners’.

    a) Composition, Performance and Sound Art
 Research has expanded in range of impact to combine acoustic, electronic, and computer-based
 work (Goss, Mermikides, Armstrong, Hall), new ground in guitar studies (Goss, Mermikides)
 composer-performer collaboration, revision, notation (Armstrong), data sonification, rhythmic
 cognition (Mermikides), and spatial audio (Myatt).

 The IGRC has generated a discipline-shaping body of new works, performances, recordings,
 international conferences (most recently in Hong Kong, 2019), papers, broadcasts, pedagogical
 and archival activity. Its research leads and impacts globally on ideas of acoustic resonance in
 guitar composition and performance, redefining the guitar as concerto instrument (Goss’s
 internationally renowned output of solo, chamber and concerto works for Guitar and, as a world-
 first, Theorbo), and rhythmic expression/micro-timing, contemporary digital technologies, and


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 improvisational strategies (Mermikides’s creative explorations of classical guitar and electronics,
 and analytical study of jazz time-feel (Jazz Perspectives, 2020)).

 Together with the creative and musicological activities of composers Armstrong and Hall
 (musical revision, collaboration, borrowing, algorithmic composition, studies of Birtwistle and
 Feldman), this work epitomizes DMM’s commitment to strengthening impact through
 interdisciplinarity and plurality in its creative-practice research, and diversity of output formats.
 Notated, electronic, or computer-mediated works (individually and collaboratively realised),
 audiovisual installations, investigatory practice-based projects, written/spoken, paper/online
 research papers and publications together maximise the reach and impact of collective creative-
 practice activity.

    b) Musicology
 Research in musicology leads agendas in established and developing areas of (inter)disciplinary
 scholarship: respectively, music analysis or critical/cultural musicology, and autoethnography or
 intermediality. Successfully achieving the REF2014 goal ‘To sustain systematically the
 production of outputs of high quality’, this strategy is enabled by and exemplified in:

    •   grant acquisition from AHRC, BA, RMA, IMR, (Leverhulme, AHRC bids under review/for
        submission in 2020–21)
    •   dissemination at world-leading conferences (AMS, IMS, RMA, ICMSN, IASPM), invited
        research seminars at the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Vienna
    •   hosting of 10 international conferences (including ICMSN 2017)
    •   outputs placed with sector-leading journals (Musicae Scientiae, M&L, NCMR, MQ, CMR),
        and publishers (OUP, CUP, MIT Press, Routledge, Lang, Palgrave Macmillan,
        Bloomsbury, Boydell & Brewer, with further contracts at CUP, OUP, Routledge, Indiana
        UP, Bloomsbury)

 Focusing on historical, cultural and analytical study of Western ‘art’ music, popular music, jazz,
 and screen music, alongside performance studies, intermediality, critical theory, and
 autoethnography, the core strengths and impact of this research lie in Barham’s shifting of the
 scholarly and public landscape of Mahler’s socio-cultural reception and remediation through 40
 outputs and public engagement activities; Mark’s distinguished body of discipline-anchoring
 analytical work on twentieth-century British music; Wiley’s leading of emergent autoethnography
 and revisory work on biography and Smyth; Volioti’s growing influence on empirical performance
 studies and the cultural understanding of Grieg (M&L article on Grieg and Landscape (2017)
 shortlisted for the Westrup Prize); and the distinguished contribution to word and music studies
 of McGrath’s monograph on Beckett and music.

 Future strategic aims
 DMM’s strategic aims are to: 1) continue leading the art-science agenda, building research
 strengths, plurality, and disciplinary interconnectivity through collaborative and open-
 access channels; 2) further enhance impact as an exemplar of cross/intra-disciplinary
 excellence in music, media technologies and engineering. This includes routes to 3)
 increasing already healthy research output levels, PGR recruitment, breadth of staffing,
 conference hosting, research income, external collaborations, and infrastructure
 (realisation of advanced plans for new premises in the next 10 years, Covid-permitting), geared
 to further cementing DMM’s world-leading profile in the creative industries.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cognisant of Surrey’s thematic priorities relating to DMM researcher expertise — ‘Technology
 and Society’ (Frohlich, Mermikides, Myatt, IoSR), ‘Lifelong Health’ (Frohlich, Mermikides),
 ‘Cultural Practices’ (IGRC, IAGMR, musicology and creative practice staff) — the Head of
 Department (HoD) spearheads future planning through consultation with the Director of
 Research (DoR), Research and Innovation Services (RIS) and wider discussion with staff at
 individual, programme, and Faculty level. Planning takes into account: funding bid culture
 (enabling, for example, Coleman’s Surrey Sound Sphere equipment for sound field rendering
 and perceptual experiments (£38k) and Coleman/Gilbert’s 2020 £97k Research England ‘World
 Class Laboratories’ (WCL) High Volume Data Capture and Display upgrade); sabbatical
 arrangements; buy-out schemes (supporting Barham’s forthcoming monograph Music, Time and
 the Moving Image); and Faculty fellowships supporting project development and grant
 applications (Armstrong and Wiley ‘Intimate Partnerships’, below).


 Research bids totalling c. £6.1M are under review or scheduled for submission in 2021:
    •   3G Paper in Healthcare Domains; Digital Glasses for the Ageing Process (EPSRC)
    •   16K UHD Real-Time Video Processing; Audio Narrative Space (EPSRC)
    •   REACT: Reverse Engineering the Art of Cinematic Technique (Leverhulme)
    •   Technological Mediation of Folk-Music Practices (Leverhulme)
    •   Intimate Partnerships in the Creative Compositional Process (AHRC)

 In DMA the launch of the Centre for Creative Arts and Technologies is a strategic priority,
 building on collaborations with Dimension Studios, Centroid Pinewood, BFI, Figment
 Productions, and NextGen VFX Skills Academy. Typifying DMM’s ethos, the Centre combines
 creativity and technological innovation in the production and understanding of moving-image
 media: animation, visual effects, games, interactivity, immersion, digital theatre and virtual
 production.

 In music, the IAGMR will see further conferences, seminars, discussion groups, public events, a
 Routledge book series, funding bids, and PGRs supporting its strategy of leading new thinking in
 the field. In 2021–22 DMM, through Mark, will host the Fulbright Scholar Justin Vickers during
 the completion of his project The Aldeburgh Festival of Music and the Arts: A History of the
 Britten and Pears Era, 1948–1986.

 DMM staff have robust 5-year research pipelines, including:
    •   work in press: Barham, Global Film Music in the Early Sound Era (Routledge); Wiley,
        Women’s Suffrage in Word, Image, Music and Drama: The Making of a Movement
        (Routledge), and The Routledge Companion to Autoethnography and Self-Reflexivity in
        Music Studies
    •   contracted monographs: Poulaki, Transformative Continuity in Film and Media
        (Palgrave Macmillan); Barham, Mahler and musical meaning (IUP), film music and time
        (CUP)
    •   contracted edited books: Wiley, The Oxford Handbook of Musical Biography and Life-
        Writing, and The Cambridge Companion to Ethel Smyth
    •   journal articles nearing submission: Brookes & Mason, ‘Timbral modelling for
        automated audio tag generation’ (JAES), Volioti, ‘Narrativity in Grieg’s Ballade Revisited’
        (JRMA)



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   research bids in final development: Brookes, SMART-2 (EPSRC), Frohlich, Mediated
        Musical Collaboration (AHRC), Wiley and Armstrong as described above (AHRC)
    •   commissioned compositions, installations: Goss, Concerto for guitar and orchestra
        (National Endowment for the Arts, USA), Myatt, spatial sound installation and
        performance: Seaphony Alte Münze Berlin, commissioned by Oceans21 for launch of UN
        ‘Decade of Ocean Science’ 2021; installations for Shanghai Biennale, Venice
        Architecture Biennale 2021

 Through mechanisms of mentorship, internal funding, and opportunities for dissemination
 described above, DMM is committed to supporting the research profiles and grant portfolios of
 its early career researchers (ECRs), and to ensuring high-quality staff progression towards
 senior research-leader roles.

 Open access and research integrity
 The above demonstrates that Open Access is not just embedded within DMM’s current and
 future strategies, but is a fundamental enabler for research areas in DWRC, music and IoSR.
 DMM is committed to transparency, open communication and disseminating research findings to
 other researchers and the public. The Surrey Research Insight (SRI) team supports and advises
 on open access and research visibility. All outputs are shared through the SRI open-access
 repository. Researchers submit materials at the point of acceptance, and electronic copy of PGR
 theses/portfolios are lodged in the SRI repository.

 DMM is committed to the highest ethical standards in research. It applies the University’s ‘Code
 on Good Research Practice’, which endorses the Universities UK Concordat on research
 integrity through honesty, rigour, transparency, open communication, care and respect. The
 University Ethics Committee and Research Integrity and Governance Office oversee staff and
 PGR research projects. Ethical and legal issues of all grant applications are fully considered in
 Department and Faculty peer review. The DoR advises on research ethics from the early stages
 of project development.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and development
 DMM’s development since 2013 has been shaped by a diversified staff recruitment strategy that
 reflects — and pioneers thinking and practice in — the contemporary multi-modal world of art-
 technology-science interfaces.

 After significant University-wide restructuring in 2015, DMM staffing was reshaped into its
 current complement of 19.5 FTE: 4 Professors (one at .5FTE), 1 Reader, 8 Senior Lecturers,
 and 7 Lecturers, supported by Associate Lecturers, instrumental tutors, and technical staff.

 The appointment of 7 new academic staff strengthens the research base in technological and
 engineering expertise (De Sena, Coleman, Adeyemi-Ejeye), contemporary creative practice
 (Hall, Weinbren), musicological range (Volioti, Hall, McGrath), and crossover activities between
 these areas.

 Staff work in a supportive and collegiate environment, often in collaborative teaching and
 research projects. ECRs are allocated a senior colleague as mentor and peer reviewer of
 research progress, outputs and funding applications. Informal individual or small-group research


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support beyond this characterises DMM, for which flexible and carefully considered research
 management, particularly of ECRs, is a core quality. The latter bore fruit in de Sena’s 2020
 EPSRC New Investigator Award of £401k for the Scalable Room Acoustic Modelling project, and
 McGrath’s Leverhulme bid ‘Technological Mediation of Folk-Music Practices’. De Sena was
 shortlisted for University Researcher of the Year (2020).

 Localised support is matched by Doctoral College programmes in ECR mentoring, career
 development, supervisor training, research bidding and project management, and by the
 University’s core Research and Innovation strategy of attracting highest-quality ECRs to Surrey
 (de Sena, Coleman, McGrath), and providing a matching environment to support career
 development.

 DMM’s DoR, HoD, and Director of PGR work closely to oversee and facilitate research activity.
 Research issues are managed in regular Departmental, sub-group, and individual meetings.
 Through consultations and funding routes, HoD and DoR work to ensure the recognition, support
 and promotion of ECR and probationer research. The DoR reports from the monthly Faculty
 Research and Innovation Committee directly to DMM staff on relevant matters of research
 management, support, and infrastructure. The DoR and HoD report annually to the Dean of the
 Faculty and Associate Dean for Research and Innovation (ADRI) to evaluate each staff
 member’s research profile, so that successes are recognised and support needs identified.

 With a flexible sabbatical scheme (one semester paid research leave each 4/5 years), and
 careful management of teaching and administrative loads, staff are given time and space to
 develop funding applications and complete individual or research-group projects. Research
 success is recognised, and clearly and fairly incentivised, by University processes of appraisal,
 promotion (Barham to Professor, Mermikides to Reader, Armstrong to Senior Lecturer), awards,
 performance-related pay schemes (Barham 2014 for international conference organisation), and
 through showcasing at the Faculty’s annual Festival of Research.

 DMM staff have benefitted from University, Faculty, and local research and funding support
 mechanisms (detailed in Section 3 below). The RIS team provides logistical advice on bid
 financing, and operate a research impact and engagement fund. The Institute of Advanced
 Studies (IAS) offers grants to support arts and humanities conferences and Fellowships. The
 Faculty Research Facilitation Officer and ADRI regularly update on bidding opportunities, and
 manage the internal peer review process. The Faculty offers travel grants, pump-priming
 awards, and Research Fellowships (FRF) to support large-scale bids through workshops,
 training, advice, and mentoring. The DMM DoR, HoD, head of DWRC, and senior colleagues
 provide subject-specific advice on bid preparations.

 PGR student recruitment and support
 DMM has significantly expanded PGR student recruitment since 2013. At any one time 35–40
 doctoral students are at work across subject areas. 30 PhDs and one MPhil were awarded in the
 period, a 36% increase from REF2014, which, together with developments in provision outlined
 below, achieves 2014’s stated aim ‘To increase student numbers and consolidate the
 quality of … PGR activity’.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Of 71 PGR students active during the assessment period, 15 were awarded external funding
 (Techne AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership, EPSRC, Bang & Olufsen, BBC, Marion Redfearn
 Trust, Wolfson Microelectronics, Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações (Brazil), Microsoft,
 Govt. of Malaysia), and 17 awarded Faculty/Doctoral College studentships, or the prestigious
 Vice-Chancellor studentship.

 PGR students in DMM are supported by the Doctoral College through its guidance for
 applicants, its Researcher Development Programme, discussion fora addressing PGR life, and
 championing of ECRs via participation in the HR Excellence in Research initiative. PGR students
 are fully supported at Departmental level, first through a 6-monthly review process. Secondly,
 bespoke research training programmes are combined with fortnightly visiting research seminar
 series, and the recently launched research-intensive all-day workshop scheme. Music PGR
 students participate in conferences, symposia, and study days hosted by DMM, and attend
 research training modules delivered in the Masters programme.

 Through this varied diet of provision, PGR students encounter key research methodologies,
 skills, theories, practices, concepts, and frameworks, and are given regular opportunities to
 present their research and receive feedback from peers and staff on matters of content,
 methodology, and presentational strategies.

 In IoSR and DWRC, 20 PGR students have been mentored and trained within extended staff-led
 research groupings. DWRC and IoSR also run tailored research seminar series, the latter a bi-
 annual programme for audio researchers across the University with invited academics,
 PostDocs, and industry guests, including most recently Stine Johansen (Aalborg Universitet),
 Adèle Simon and Søren Bech (B&O), and Jon Francombe (BBC R&D). The IGRC supports the
 world’s largest guitar PGR cohort with 12 current students (from Brazil, USA, Hungary,
 Germany, Switzerland, Italy, France, Slovenia, Greece, and UK).

 DMM PGR students graduating since 2013 have pursued distinguished careers in academia
 (Universities of Southern Denmark, Brasília, SUNY Potsdam, Denver, Zurich, Huddersfield,
 Salford, Westminster, Brunel), and the commercial sector (CEO Spitfire Audio, Lead R&D
 Engineer BBC, Principal Engineer Sandy Brown Associates, Senior Engineer Qualcomm, Senior
 Principal Engineer HARMAN International). DMM PGR student Arkle won the University PGR
 Student of the Year award, 2020.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 DMM is committed to fulfilling the University’s programme ensuring equality, diversity and
 inclusion in all forms of research activity, from recruitment and collaboration to external
 engagement and public-facing activities. DMM resolutely embraces EDI principles as enshrined
 in the Race Equality and Athena SWAN Charters, the Disability Confident employment scheme,
 the AccessAble support scheme, Stonewall’s ‘Acceptance without Exception’ LGBTQ+
 workplace equality index (supported by the University’s ‘Rainbow Allies’ initiative), and the ‘Time
 to Change’ campaign against mental health discrimination.

 The Doctoral College’s Disability and Neurodiversity service supports those with additional
 learning needs and related conditions, and its mental health first aid training is available for
 PGRs and ECRs. Unconscious Bias training is mandatory for all staff, with in-person training
 required for line managers and staff involved in recruitment, disciplinary and promotion
 procedures.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Delivering on EDI principles
 In accordance with University and Faculty initiatives, DMM established an EDI forum for all staff
 and students in 2020. This group formulates positive actions to address systemic EDI issues in
 HE and industries related to DMM disciplines: student and staff recruitment, support for all
 members of the DMM community, and outreach targeting communities and affiliated companies
 (BAME scholarship in sound engineering sponsored by AIR Studios). The Gender Equality lead
 submitted DMM’s 2020 Athena SWAN Bronze application, and heads sub-committees
 addressing equality issues in appointments, promotions and part-time employment.

 DMM supports flexible working for staff with caring responsibilities, implements Keep-In-Touch
 days for those on parental leave, and phased returns from maternity or medical leave. All line
 managers are trained to identify staff and student wellbeing issues, and are expertly supported
 by the University’s Centre for Wellbeing.

 EDI issues are embedded in research activities:
    •   Honorary Visiting Professor appointment of composer and Surrey alumna Odaline de la
        Martinez, long-time champion of female composers.
    •   Wiley’s research explores female composer Ethel Smyth, women’s suffrage,
        autoethnographic studies of ethnic minority artists, and post-colonial diaspora. He has
        contributed papers to International Women’s Day, Annual Women’s History Network
        Conference, and LGBT History Month events, and booklet notes for a DMM-supported
        recording by Samantha Ege of the piano works of Florence Price.
    •   Barham collaborates with Surrey Professor of Law Rodriguez-Blanco on the TECHNE-
        funded ‘Conflux’ doctoral training programme (2021–22), Blame and Black Lives Matter:
        Responsibility for Historical Wrongs, New Perspectives from the Humanities and Arts, to
        foster exchange of creative ideas on questions about self, agency, blame, moral worth,
        truth and history.
    •   Barham’s PGR student Arkle works as HE EDI activist and is Executive Board member
        of the EDI in Music Studies Network. She has worked at University of Surrey in this
        capacity on BLM-related fora run by the Faculty and Doctoral College.
    •   EDI aims are cemented into the tenets of the IAGMR, which has ensured gender balance
        and diverse ethnic representation in its 21-strong Advisory Board.
 DMM paid careful attention to EDI in the formulation of the REF2021 submission. Output
 selection was conducted in strict accordance with the published code of practice.
 Representatives from the University REF2021 team attended all meetings, and all members of
 the selection committee completed REF2021-specific EDI training. The selection committee took
 due account of the demographic characteristics of the UoA. The selection process was
 continually reviewed with EDI issues at the forefront of decision making.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 In the REF2021 period DMM significantly increased research income levels compared to
 previous performance. Over £2.3M of research-council and industry funding was awarded.


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DMM’s research funding strategy is one of ambition, scale, innovation, and impact. Staff are
 supported in implementing bids of appropriate size and degree of collaborative enterprise that
 enhance the research landscape within and beyond the Department, Faculty, and University,
 develop industry relationships, and directly benefit the UG and PG teaching environment.

 DMM research has attracted significant Faculty and University support (outlined in Section 2.):
 Wiley (IAS for 2017 conference ‘Writing About Contemporary Artists’, and FRF for AHRC
 ‘Intimate Partners’ bid), Armstrong (FRF), Barham (Research Impact and Engagement Fund for
 Jazz conference 2016, Faculty award for overseas archival research); Coleman, Frohlich, Goss,
 and Hall (pump-priming for equipment, collaborative initiatives, pilot projects).

 Building from this internal support, DMM-led external funding from research councils and
 industry sources totalled £11.8M, with £2.36M allocated to DMM (IoSR £1.6M, DWRC £569,089,
 Music £192,246) — a step-change increase since REF2014.

 The IoSR has been awarded 10 RC and industry research grants (EC H2020, EPSRC, Cirrus
 Logic, BBC R&D, Bang & Olufsen). Most recently De Sena obtained £401k from EPSRC for the
 Scalable Room Acoustic Modelling and Evaluation project (2020). DWRC’s 13 research projects
 and international research network have been funded by EPSRC, Digital Economy, Innovate
 UK, and supported in kind by independent companies.

 Compositional and spatial audio art research has been funded by AHRC (network grant),
 SSHRC (Canada), and commissioning bodies or technology companies, including:

     •   Arts Council England
     •   Canada Council for the Arts
     •   Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts
     •   Scottish Chamber Orchestra
     •   Britten-Pears Foundation
     •   BBC/TBI
     •   Ableton
     •   Tate Modern
     •   Wellcome Foundation
     •   MoMA, New York
     •   Oceans21 (Berlin)
     •   Art Basel (Miami)

 Musicological research has been supported by scholarly bodies such as the IMR, RMA, M&L,
 HEA, Film Music Foundation (California), British Association of Victorian Studies, Feminist and
 Women’s Studies Association, for conferences, keynote speakers, editorial/translation work,
 publication costs, archive materials, and research visits.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The DoR manages an annual £20k research support budget to assist staff in achieving research
 goals. Fully allocated each year, it enables conference and archive travel, research meetings,
 consultations, purchasing software/licences/hardware, proofreading, image reproduction, visiting
 research collaborators, transcription/digitisation. This budget works alongside University and
 Faculty-level support mechanisms, Faculty research support funds, research impact budgets,
 and fellowship programmes, as described above.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Sound recording
 The IoSR benefits from professional facilities of the highest standards, which provide the
 essential environment for all of SR’s experimental, creative, and industry-related research
 projects. These include three recording studios, three edit rooms, three bespoke listening
 environments, over 100 microphones, a Neutrik Cortex MK2 binaural head, and a wide range of
 digital and acoustic test and measurement equipment and software.

 Studio 1 floor is 250 square meters and designed to be acoustically similar to a chamber concert
 hall. Its control room was upgraded in 2017 with a 32-fader Studer Vista 1 digital mixing console,
 and the studio itself refurbished in 2018 (£250k) to enhance the acoustic performance of the
 space in order to support a greater range of use. This studio allows very high quality multi-
 microphone capture of spatial audio, as well as pseudo-anechoic acoustic measurement using
 the impulse response truncation method.

 Studio 2 floor is 60 square meters and has a drier acoustic allowing for greater sound source
 separation. Its control room centres on a 56-channel SSL 9000K series console. This facility is
 ideal for pop/rock music and speech recording. Studio 3, a mixing/post-production/sound-to-
 picture studio, allowing mixing of spatial audio content to exacting standards, was completely
 refitted (£230k) in autumn 2013, with an acoustic redesign by John Flynn and Sam Toyoshima of
 Acoustics Design Group and an AMS-Neve 88D digital mixing console.

 The microphone collection contains rare examples, including 3 of the c. 2000 original AKG C12
 valve microphones, classic ribbon microphones such as ST&C 4038s, flexible and often-used
 microphones such as AKG C414s, and high quality currently available microphones such as
 DPA 4011s and Schoeps CMC6Us.

 The critical listening room allows tightly controlled playback for the listening-based experiments
 essential to IoSR research in psychoacoustic engineering, and supports experimentation, the
 production of spatial audio artworks, and critical listening. It is built to the ITU-R BS.1116
 standard and in 2016 was fitted with a new 22.2-channel playback system, utilising Genelec
 8330A SAM studio monitors and 7350A SAM subwoofers providing built-in time, level and
 frequency response alignment. Stereo B&W 801 loudspeakers are also available.

 The 'Surrey Sound Sphere', provides a reconfigurable 3D array of up to 64 Genelec 8020
 loudspeakers to aid research into next-generation spatial and object-based audio systems. The
 'Domestic Listening Lab' provides an environment visually and acoustically similar to a typical
 living room allowing the running of externally valid perceptual tests and user trials in a realistic
 home environment. This research has recently been enhanced by Coleman/Gilbert’s £97k
 Research England WCL award for High Volume Data Capture and Display facilities.

 On the recent S3A project, a key initial step was determining the most important perceived
 differences between alternative methods of capturing and reproducing spatial sound. Live
 performances in Studio 1 were captured using eleven simultaneous multi-microphone arrays
 plus a binaural head. These recordings were then mixed and listener-evaluated using seven
 different reproduction systems configured in the Surrey Sound Sphere.

 The findings led directly to the development of technology to enhance listener envelopment in a
 domestic space using ad-hoc devices such as smart-speakers and phones. Listening tests


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conducted in the Domestic Listening Lab steered the prototyping, evaluation and refinement of
 this technology. An important element of the technology was the novel sound diffusion algorithm
 which was perfected using controlled experiments in the Critical Listening Room.

 Digital World Research Centre
 DWRC funding since 2013 has supported the employment of 15 staff. In 2016 the Centre moved
 to larger and more flexible facilities within CVSSP, comprising Head of Centre office, group
 meeting rooms, equipment storage, large open-plan RA and PhD student workspace, multimedia
 recording and editing facilities, and a home living laboratory for new media experiments.

 The relocation established strategic links between the centres, leading to the two largest joint
 research awards of this period (EPSRC ‘Making Sense of Sounds’ £1.59M, and ‘Next
 Generation Paper £1.17M) — among Surrey’s most significant examples of co-located
 interdisciplinary working across two faculties combining social sciences and digital media with
 engineering/physical sciences.

 Digital media arts
 DMA virtual-/augmented-reality research including the 2020 ‘(Re)animating Stanislavski’ virtual
 theatre project, and the 2017 ‘Transience of Memory’ interactive film residency at the Griffith
 Film School, Australia, are enabled by investment in state-of-the-art equipment:
    •    TV Studio with green-screen facility
    •    Microsoft HoloLens v1
    •    HTC Vive VR
    •    Oculus Rift VR
    •    Insta360 Pro 8K 360° camera
    •    Perception Neuron 32 sensor motion capture kit
    •    Alienware laptops + ‘Graphics Accelerator’ eGPU with Nvidia GTX Titan, to support VR
         applications
    •    Organic Motion OpenStage 2 markerless motion capture system
    •    3x GH5 cameras with 12-60mm M34 lenses and 2x 128GB SD cards

 Music
 Music shares the purpose-built and recently refurbished (2018–19) Performing Arts Technology
 Studios building with SR, which in addition to the studios and edit rooms described above,
 contains rehearsal spaces of varying sizes, 6 further edit suites with computers and monitoring
 for audio post-production, composition and musical notation, the Moog Synth Lab, instrumental
 resources, meeting rooms, staff office space, and technical stores.

 Practice-based research involving performance and composition workshops, meetings,
 experiments and presentations are facilitated by the 250-seat Studio 1, 70- and 40-seat music-
 equipped spaces in the adjacent Teaching Block, edit suites, Synth Lab, and large rehearsal
 spaces. Studio 1 was equipped with a new Steinway D piano in 2019, and the existing Steinway
 D refurbished to support two-piano repertoire. The studios support instrumental recording and
 the production and development of composition and sound-art projects.

 A collaboration between DMM, Moog Music Inc. (US) and the Moog Sound Lab UK enabled the
 development of a synthesis room supporting musical composition and experimentation. The
 facility features a rare, reconstructed Moog System 55 modular synthesiser, all production Moog

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 synthesisers, Moogerfooger effects units, original prototypes of the Moog Guitar, and other
 modular synthesisers used in experimental creative practice research (Myatt, Mermikides, Hall).

 Music staff office spaces are equipped with piano and IT resources. DMM’s annual capital
 expenditure and equipment budgets enable staff to access software, hardware, library and other
 essential research resources. Software licences for compositional work, (Sibelius, Max/MSP,
 Logic and Pro-Tools) are available to practice-based research staff, along with the SR facilities,
 studios and equipment listed above.

 Central library resources and infrastructure received significant institutional investment since
 2013, expanding online provision in areas pertinent to DMM: BibliU Bookshelf, Kortext, Kanopy,
 journal subscriptions, and databases of audio recordings, critical texts, and citation indices
 (RILM, Performing Arts Periodicals Database, Journal Archives).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 DMM’s contribution to the international research base distinctively combines:

    •   industry-focused engineering projects drawing on scientific experimentation and
        commercial collaborations (contribution to economy, and to Surrey’s status as one of
        only two UK universities described as a top 55 Tech Challenger by Times Higher
        Education)

    •   social-welfare-, environment-, and medically-orientated applications and
        developments of (sound, music, and image) digital technology or spatial audio
        (contribution to society)

    •   culturally and creatively impactful musical (and audiovisual) composition,
        performance, and musicological enquiry (contribution to cultural economy and
        society)
 DMM’s research crosses traditional boundaries between (sub)disciplines (digital technologies–
 sociology, music–image/literature/philosophy), and between the arts and sciences themselves
 (creative musical practice–audio engineering, aesthetics–spatial audio). This collaborative
 plurality and multi-disciplinarity, engendered without detriment to the intradisciplinary integrity
 which DMM continues to pursue rigorously, lends an unusually productive and adaptable
 perspective to its research ethos.

 Sound recording
 Research in SR and spatial audio is inherently collaborative and interdisciplinary, as
 demonstrated in the flagship EPSRC-funded project ‘S3A: Future Spatial Audio for an Immersive
 Listener Experience at Home’ (2013–19), combining expertise in 3D audio and visual
 processing at Surrey (Brookes, Mason, and Coleman), Southampton, Salford, the BBC
 and UK industry (Audio Software Development Ltd and KEF Audio) to enable a sense of
 live events through delivery of immersive 3D sound to the home.

 Similarly, the Horizon-2020-funded project ‘Audio Commons: an Ecosystem for Creative Reuse of
 Audio Content’ (2016–19) was managed by Brookes and Mason in collaboration with Surrey
 CVSSP and Business School, QMUL, and Universitat Pompeu Fabra (MTG), to promote use of
 open audio content and develop technologies supporting the Audio Commons Ecosystem of
 content repositories, production tools and users.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The virtual (Re)Sounding of Place (vRSP) project (AHRC, with follow-on, and EPSRC) saw Myatt,
 EMMY-winning film/TV composer and Visiting Professor Michael Price, and digital and interactive
 media expert Kirk Woolford, collaborating with The Control Room Ltd. and Dimension Studios
 on novel spatial audio methods in immersive environments, integrating 360° video, mapped
 environment capture, performance, sound, and volumetric multi-dimensional (holographic) video.

 With postdoc Research Fellows, colleagues in other Surrey Departments, and external co-
 investigators, SR staff have jointly contributed over 150 outputs to leading journals: JAES
 (‘Evaluation of Spatial Audio Reproduction Methods’, 2017), EEE/ACM Transactions on Audio,
 Speech and Language Processing (‘Room Impulse Response Interpolation Using a Sparse
 Spatio-temporal Representation of the Sound Field’, 2017), and Journal of The Acoustical
 Society of America (‘Personal Audio with a Planar Bright Zone’, 2014).

 De Sena is strategic collaborator with KU Leuven (Belgium) on the Spatial Dynamics of
 Room Acoustics (SONORA) project (ERC Consolidator Grant), undertaking acoustic
 modelling work with applications in hearing technology, virtual reality, human-machine
 interaction, musicology, and acoustic monitoring.

 Leading international agendas in spatial sound art over the last two decades, Myatt integrates
 production and reproduction into international artistic, conservationist, curatorial, and municipal
 collaborations with experimental artists such as Chris Watson (UK) (Cemetery with Watson
 and filmmaker Carlos Casas won multiple awards at the Marseille International Film Festival,
 and is streamed on the MUBI film channel), Jana Winderen (No) and Yasunao Tone (US/Jp)
 (MOMA NY, Art Basel Miami, Tate Modern, EMPAC US, and Oceans21 for UN ‘Decade of the
 Oceans’ — see ICS ‘New Directions in Spatial Audio Art’).


 SR research has been granted patents for technology developed in the ‘Perceptually Optimised
 Sound Zones’ collaborative project (IoSR, CVSSP and Bang & Olufsen, 2010–14):

    •   2016: System for optimizing the perceived sound quality in virtual sound zones
        (US9277322B2), patents.google.com/patent/US9277322B2/en

    •   2017: System and a method of providing sound to two sound zones
        (US20150264507A1), patents.google.com/patent/US20150264507A1/en

 Algorithms, systems, and technologies have been adopted by external bodies:

    •   ‘Audio Commons’ timbral prediction algorithms incorporated into the application
        programming interface (API) for the freesound.org audio database

    •   ‘S3A’ Media Device Orchestration (MDO) system used by the BBC

    •   De Sena/KCL’s SDN and PSR technologies coded as a VST plugin used by musicians,
        composers, studios, and theatres (Guildhall Art Gallery, Christie’s NY, RADA, V&A
        Museum, Reeps One, Playlines, Kimatica, Gestalt)

 Digital World Research Centre
 DWRC designs new media innovation projects for health and wider socio-cultural benefit. 33
 publications were internationally co-authored by Frohlich in the period, notably five papers from

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the UK-Brazil collaborative network on ‘Assistive Media’ — for example, ’Mobile digital
 storytelling in a Brazilian care home’, HCI International 2018. The network continues
 collaborating on new research projects, bids, and papers, all enabled by open-access
 inter-institutional data sharing.

 With 13 completed projects, and 4 ongoing, the DWRC’s collaborative partners are numerous
 and diverse: creative artists Armstrong, Simon Desbruslais, Ligeti Quartet (‘Com-Note’, 2013);
 HE institutions Swansea University (‘Light tags’, 2014), SETsquared universities consortium
 (‘ICure’, 2014), Communication University of China in Beijing (‘Immersive audiophotography’,
 2016), UFSCAR, Brazil (‘Mobile technology for older people’, 2016, ‘Augmented paper in
 dementia care’, 2018), USP, Brazil (‘Media parcels’, 2017, ‘Time matters’, 2018); and external
 organisations/companies Digital Economy ‘Communities and Culture’ Network, London
 Borough of Lambeth, Farrells Architect Planners (‘Storytelling for development’, 2015), RPPtv
 Intelligent Media (‘Eyes free: my ears onto here – sonic augmented reality’, 2018).

 DWRC has designed new technology prototypes involving open source software and/or
 intellectual property. Invention disclosures have been filed on the Next Generation Paper project,
 a GB patent filed, and commercial and open-source applications launched from this, Com-Note,
 and Frohlich’s mobile digital storytelling app.

 Music

    a) Composition, Performance and Sound Art: acoustic, electronic or computer-based
 Research contribution in this area prioritises socio-cultural enrichment through engagement
 with audiences, national and international networks of artistic partners, and exploratory
 technological and creative ideas.

 Goss’s extensive compositional output with supporting texts and media has changed the
 landscape of creative and public understanding of the guitar as solo and ensemble instrument,
 through mining and recasting its rich vein of cultural, historical, and expressive reference points.
 Esteem, contribution, and relationship with international cultural custodians, beneficiaries, and
 audiences (as represented in the submitted portfolios built around the 5 Concertos, 6 chamber-
 music works, and 19 pieces for guitar (solo, group, or with voices) composed during the
 assessment period) can be gauged by his status as Honorary FRAM (granted to only 300 living
 RAM graduates); over 80 CDs of compositions; performances by Russian National Orchestra,
 China National Symphony Orchestra, Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra, State Symphony
 Orchestra ‘New Russia’, RTÉ National Symphony Orchestra, Barcelona Symphony Orchestra;
 articles and interviews with BBC, Tonebase, RAM, Soundboard, Classical Guitar,
 Gramophone; book chapter in Music and Sonic Art: Theories and Practices, and 3 PhD/DMA
 theses on his music (US, Australia, Portugal); composer residencies: Universities of
 Melbourne, Newcastle (NSW), Bogota, São Paulo, Columbus State, Georgia, Nat. Cons. Peru,
 HK Academy for Performing Arts, RCS, Orpheus Sinfonia. Commissions and creative
 partnerships include: John Williams and RPO, Colombian National SO, BBC NO of Wales,
 Scottish CO, Koblenz International Guitar Festival and Academy, The Worshipful Company of
 Musicians, Guitar Foundation of America, 2020 Changsha International Guitar Competition, Sir
 Andrew Lloyd Webber, Nicola Benedetti, Sheku Kenneh-Mason, Xuefei Yang, and Ian
 Bostridge.

 Armstrong structures creative output around themes of collaboration, revision, and borrowing,
 co-leading the AHRC-funded (£30k) Music Composition as Interdisciplinary Practice project

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through three symposia (York, Oxford Brookes, and Surrey), and four commissioned works
 involving theatrical montage and found sources, digital entities and avatars (Squib-box/Hatsune
 Miku), choreographic response to music, and site-specific collaboration with humanities
 researchers. Armstrong enriches the DMM research environment through interaction with artists
 (Judith Weir, Graham Fitkin, Cheryl Frances-Hoad, Jocelyn Pook, Zubin Kanga from IRCAM,
 David Gorton (RAM), Stevie Wishart, Michael Zev Gordon) in hosted events: Compositional
 Sketches Study Day, Roundtable on Composers’ Careers (both 2015), compositional revision
 colloquium (2020), and numerous research seminars.

 Supported by c. £83k funding, Mermikides has carved new interdisciplinary spaces in
 integrating technology into creative practice, collaborating artistically with individuals and
 institutions in scientific disciplines (Morten Kringelbach, Music in the Brain Research Centre,
 Denmark; Ableton, Peak Brain training software), and artists (Laura van der Heijden, Peter
 Zinovieff, Alison Jackson (BAFTA-winning photographer), Adam Ockelford (Director of the
 Applied Music Research Centre), Mandy Parnell (Grammy-winning engineer for Björk, Aphex
 Twin, Sigur Ros)), in exploring medical, cognitive, and neuroscientific resonances across media:

    •   rhythmic expression beyond conventional notation: articles in Jazz Perspectives,
        Soundboard Scholar, Guitar Techniques Magazine; original software tools; internationally
        delivered workshop Breaking 4/4

    •   sonification of scientific data: keynotes for Royal Physiological Society, British Sleep
        Society, Royal Society of Medicine, British Psychological Society, Frank Mohr Institute;
        talks for TEDx, BBC Radio 4, Design Museum; exhibitions in 20 different countries

    •   electroacoustic composition blending psychological research and wide stylistic
        integration through M-Space techniques: published on Deutsche Grammophon, Extreme,
        Mute, Viribus, and performed internationally.

    b) Musicology
 Research in musicology ranges from collaborative edited collections, book series, themed
 journal issues, research groups, international conferences and meetings, to single-authored
 books, journal articles, book chapters, and conference papers, complemented by diverse routes
 to media and public dissemination. Methodologies ranging from the analytical and empirical to
 the critical and cultural are deployed to deepen understanding of the structure, meaning,
 performance and reception of music from the 18th century to the present.

 In over 40 outputs during the assessment period, Barham combines scholarly work on Mahler,
 screen music, and jazz with public outreach (BBC Radio 3, Proms Plus, Southbank, LPO, OAE,
 Philharmonia, BBC Scottish SO, CD notes for BIS Records). A leading authority on Mahler, he
 rethinks the music’s cultural significance and meaning, relation to philosophy, literature, other
 arts, political and social identity, and media appropriation, as evidenced in submitted outputs and
 public engagement.

 Working ‘To strengthen, build and nurture links with regional, national and international
 partners’, Barham has developed the collaborative momentum of international conferences
 (early film music, and Davis/Coltrane) into 3 edited books and a book series since 2013:
 rethinking Mahler’s relationship to earlier musical legacies, exploring music in experimental film,
 and (in press) charting early global film music (50-author Routledge Companion building from


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BA- and DAAD-funded archival research, promising to reshape the screen music studies
 landscape). Barham’s Oxford Studies in Recorded Jazz series (6 volumes since 2013) similarly
 builds on collaborative networks, to rebalance jazz scholarship and public understanding
 towards fuller musical consideration of jazz performance. The IAGMR is a highlight of recent
 collaborative enterprise underpinned by a critical mass of research expertise within DMM and
 forging UK and international affiliations (Austrian Cultural Forum, German Historical Institute,
 Gesellschaft für Musikforschung, Institut für Musikwissenschaft, Vienna, Gustav Mahler
 Research Centre, Innsbruck). In 2020 a 21-strong international Advisory Board was appointed, a
 book series submitted to Routledge, and an inaugural symposium (2020) and larger conference
 (for 2021) organised.

 Mark’s long-standing contribution to the musicology research base, primarily on Britten and
 Bridge (see submitted outputs), draws on various analytical methodologies to enhance listeners’
 experience and critical understanding. As founder of twentieth-century music and the Biennial
 International Conference on Music Since 1900 prior to the assessment period, and convenor of
 the latter’s tenth iteration at Surrey in 2017, he continues to shape the environment of
 contemporary music research.

 Wiley combines groundbreaking work in the emergent musical autoethnography field with
 renewed perspectives on biography (‘Myth-Making and the Politics of Nationality’, ‘Biography
 and Life-Writing’), and Ethel Smyth and feminism, disseminated through a themed journal issue
 (JMR 2019 on biography), book chapters, an edited interdisciplinary book (Palgrave Macmillan,
 2020) on writing about contemporary creative artists, 6 international symposia on these themes,
 and public engagement (talks, programme and CD notes, reviews for Glyndebourne, RPO,
 BBCSO, Proms).

 Volioti (ECR) conducts Grieg research (journal articles ‘Reminiscing Grieg’, and ‘Landscaping
 the Gaze’ reconsidering early recordings and visual art forms in 19th-century contexts) alongside
 empirical performance studies traversing the art-science divide. She convened the first Surrey
 performance studies conference (‘New Takes on Recorded Music: Performance, Creativity,
 Technology’, 2019), was keynote speaker at ‘The London International Piano Symposium’, RAM
 2018, and curated the public exhibition 'The Player-Piano and Pianola’, Surrey 2015.

 ECR McGrath’s monograph Beckett, Repetition and Musical Modernism (Routledge 2018)
 contributes substantively to intermedial word and music studies, offering new perspectives on
 issues of semantic fluidity in modernist literary and musical artworks across stylistic and cultural
 boundaries — a pluralistic approach also brought to his IGRC work and consultancy for AHRC-
 funded collaborative research in guitar pedagogy at Goldsmiths.

 Further esteem indicators
 DMM staff are in demand as consultants to their respective disciplines:

    •   speaking invitations (keynotes, conferences, seminars, public events in Europe, North
        and South America, Asia): Barham, Mark, Volioti, Goss, Mermikides, Wiley, Armstrong,
        Brookes, De Sena, Coleman, Poulaki, Weinbren, Frohlich

    •   writing invitations (OUP, CUP, Routledge, MIT Press, Lang, NCMR, CMR): Barham,
        Mark, Volioti, Myatt



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   reviewing funding applications (AHRC, EPSRC, Leverhulme, BA, Austrian Academy
        of Sciences, NWO, ETAg, Israel Science Foundation, DAAD, Austrian Science Fund):
        Barham, Wiley, Goss, Brookes, Frohlich, Poulaki

    •   reviewing book and journal publications (OUP, CUP, Routledge, Boydell & Brewer,
        IEEE journals, Applied Sciences Journal, JAES, JASA, NECSUS, Empedocles,
        Comunicazioni Sociali, Kinephanos, M&L, JRMA, JAMS, Music Analysis, NCMR,
        Twentieth-Century Music, Music Sound and the Moving Image, Popular Music, The
        German Quarterly, German Studies Review, Musicologica Austriaca, Arts Journal,
        Women & Music, Studies in Educational Evaluation): Barham, Mark, Wiley, Coleman,
        Brookes, Adeyemi-Ejeye, De Sena, Poulaki

    •   consultancy (RSI, Mahler 2020 Festival Amsterdam, Mahler Foundation, BBCTV,
        Omnibus Press, Hull University, RHUL, Exeter, Goldsmiths, Liverpool Hope, Tate
        Modern, Humble Bee Films, T-B A21 Foundation): Barham, Wiley, Goss, McGrath,
        Myatt, Brookes

    •   PhD examining and co-supervising (Oxford, Cambridge, Huddersfield, Birmingham
        City, Sheffield, Salford, Imperial, QMUL, RHUL, Univ. Cape Town, Stellenbosch Univ.,
        SA, KU Leuven, RCM, RCS, RAM, GSMD, Royal Irish Conservatoire, University of
        Ulster, TU Dublin): Barham, Wiley, Goss, Brookes, De Sena

    •   external examining (OU, York, Cardiff, Leeds, City, Sussex, RHUL, RCS): Barham,
        Wiley, Goss, Mermikides, Brookes

    •   visiting professorships/research associateships (KCL, Liszt Academy Budapest,
        RAM, Universities of Melbourne and São Carlos, Brazil): Barham, Goss, De Sena,
        Frohlich

    •   editorial board, committee membership, editorships (numerous international
        conference committees, IEEE, VQEG, FP7 Initial Training Network on Audio Quality,
        MAES, ISM, Gustav Mahler Research Centre (Innsbruck), Sonic Scope (MIT), NCMR,
        Neuroaesthetics and Neurocultures research group, SCMS, NECS, SCSMI, ISSN, LISFE
        Short Film festival jury, Organised Sound (CUP), JMR): Barham, Wiley, Brookes, Myatt,
        Poulaki

 The breadth and international profile of these activities allow staff to serve as exemplars of best
 practice for supporting PGR and ECR career development, and for shaping environments at the
 leading edge of (inter)disciplinary research.




                                                                                             Page 19
