Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth (UoP)


 Unit of Assessment: 20 – Social Work and Social Policy


 1     Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1    Unit Context and Structure

 The University of Portsmouth is an internationally recognised centre of excellence for
 criminological research with a strong focus on policy and practice. Our research focuses on
 crime, law enforcement, social policy, education and processes of justice. Its impact empowers
 criminal justice professionals and others to protect and support society’s most vulnerable. This
 includes victims (both people and organisations), missing people, people in prison, those at risk
 of marginalisation, and those who have suffered trauma. The core of the unit’s submission is
 provided by the Institute of Criminal Justice Studies (ICJS). Established in 1992 as the Institute
 for Police and Criminological Studies, ICJS has become the largest department of Criminology &
 Criminal Justice in the UK. As well as research and innovation, we deliver underg raduate,
 postgraduate and doctoral level education to national and international campus -based and
 distance learning students. In the unit, 27 out of 38 staff specialise in criminology and criminal
 justice (71%; 15 male (m), 12 female (f)), with the remainder focusing on social policy issues
 from an education and/or social work perspective (11, 3m/8f).
 Research activity and development within the unit is structured primarily through our Specialist
 Centres and Research Clusters. These are overseen by Cluster and Specialist Centre Leads, as
 well as both Unit Coordinators (CHARMAN and PAKES) and the Unit’s Impact Lead (MILNE).
 They provide operational leadership, strategic input and support across these multi -disciplinary
 research groups.

 1.1.1 Specialist Centres

 Our Specialist Centres are the locus of world-leading research and impact. Defined by their
 specific outward-focused engagement, they are relatively small in size in order to maintain a
 focus on highly specific real-world issues. These four Specialist Centres focus on fraud, missing
 people, forensic interviewing, and forensics. All have strong links with professional bodies,
 companies, charities and other organisations to ensure effective lines of communication into
 practice and to create and sustain avenues for research and impact.
 1. The Centre for Counter Fraud Studies (CCFS)
        Established in 2009. Lead: BUTTON
        CCFS investigates the challenges caused by fraud and other forms of economic crime. Its
          research has highlighted the many forms of harm from fraud beyond the financial,
          including reputational and psychological. Research and innovation funding successes
          include EPSRC, Home Office, Department for International Development, Nuffield
          Foundation, City of London Police, and several private companies. The eight st aff
          associated with the Centre have produced over 100 outputs. The Centre’s annual



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         conference attracts on average over 200 delegates from academic and practitioner
         backgrounds, sharing cutting-edge research in economic security.
 2. The Centre of Forensic Interviewing (COFI)
      Established in 2010. Lead: MILNE
      COFI engages in pure and applied research in the area of forensic interviewing. A key
        focus is on trauma-informed interviewing in relation to sex offences and terrorism,
        including ground-breaking work on interviewing during the investigation of mass
        terrorist attacks. COFI works with police organisations in a host of countries organising
        professional/ researcher conferences and provides consultancy and bespoke research
        services. The Centre has gained funding from research councils including the ESRC,
        as well as from police organisations across the world. The eight staff members
        associated with the Centre have produced more than 50 outputs and over 50
        presentations at international conferences during this REF period.
 3. The Centre for the Study of Missing Persons (CSMP)
      Established in 2012. Lead: SHALEV GREENE
      This centre brings together academics, charities and police agencies to further our
        understanding of missing people and the circumstances, risks and outcomes
        surrounding missing episodes. With an initial focus on the UK police response to
        missing incidents, the centre has since acquired a global perspective, including work on
        those missing in armed conflict, and unaccompanied minors who seek asylum and
        subsequently go missing. The six members associated with the Centre have attracted
        research and innovation funding from agencies including the European Commission,
        the National Police Chiefs’ Council, and numerous UK police forces and charities.
 4. The Forensic Innovation Centre (FIC)
      Established in 2015. Lead: SMITH
      The FIC, an arrangement with Hampshire Constabulary, is a collaborative, purpose-
        designed forensic laboratory. Space, facilities and forensic expertise are shared with
        Hampshire Constabulary for operational purposes, research, and teaching. Its
        approach to research-informed practice enables the dissemination of findings into
        professional practice immediately. The Centre is currently engaged in ground-breaking
        research on gunshot residue, fingerprints, forensic entomology, and is developing
        forensic techniques to disrupt wildlife crime. The fourteen staff associated with the FIC
        organise annual conferences and symposia, sharing outcomes with fellow academics
        and practitioners. Its Forensic Open Days, aimed at the general public, have attracted
        hundreds of visitors.

 1.1.2 Research Clusters

 Our Specialist Centres are complemented by four Research Clusters. They bring together
 experienced and early career researchers (ECRs) sharing a thematic orientation. The se more
 internally oriented Clusters focus on priority areas in the field and are informed by the
 University’s research themes of Security and Risk, Democratic Citizenship and Health and
 Wellbeing (see Institutional Level Environment Statement (hereafter REF5a, paragraph 9)).



                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. Policing and Investigations
       This Cluster includes research on police socialisation and culture, police interviewing,
           interagency collaboration and training, miscarriages of justice, and also contemporary
           developments, such as body-worn cameras in policing and policing the pandemic.
 2. Risk, Counter Fraud and Cyber Resilience
       This Cluster houses a diverse group of researchers, students and practitioners interested in
           societal and organisational risk, the delivery of security risk management (public and
           private sector), and the distinct challenges of online crime. It investigates the following
           topics: societal and organisational resilience, corporate and commercial security,
           cybercrime and cyber security, and terrorism.
 3. Transformative Justice
       This Cluster aims to promote research and scholarship with transformative potential for the
           practices of criminal and social justice. Its focus includes forgiveness in criminal justice,
           probation, open prisons, trauma among female offenders, and victims.
 4. Education, Empowerment and Social Justice
       Colleagues in this research Cluster coalesce around issues of marginalisation,
           discrimination and exclusion, frequently in relation to education. Mainly based in the
           newly established School of Education and Sociology (EdSoc), staff focus on mental
           health and wellbeing in higher education, educational leadership, school dropouts and
           LGBT+ youngsters with disabilities, as well as single mothers and complex families.

 1.2    Achievement of Strategic Objectives

 The overarching aims for the unit set in 2014 were to expand the quality and impact of our
 research and to move into novel areas, including forensics, cyber security and fraud.
 Specifically, the unit sought to improve and extend its work in the following ways:
 1. To increase research active staff by 30%: ACHIEVED.
       The cohort submitted in the unit for the current period represents a strong increase from
           REF2014 (24 to 38, +58%). We achieved this through mentoring to develop the
           research profile of existing staff (n=10, 2m/8f) and the recruitment of staff with
           strategically relevant research expertise (n=11, 7m/6f), with 7 former colleagues having
           moved on or retired.
 2. To enhance the impact of our research on policy and practice: ACHIEVED.
       The Unit has focused more resolutely upon impact at a national and international level. Our
           strategic focus in internal funding decisions has made success contingent on potential
           impact. In addition, impact has been foregrounded in staff development sessions,
           Performance and Development Review (PDR) processes, and staff promotions.
           Consequently, impact has been achieved in a range of settings, including the
           Cybercrime Awareness Clinic (CAC), the work of the Specialist Centres, and through
           applied research into victims (TAPLEY), substance misusers (PYCROFT), trauma
           informed practice in prisons (PETRILLO), and forensic taphonomy (BROWN).
 3. To increase the volume and diversity of external research income: ACHIEVED.


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The unit has achieved £810,000 in research funding, an increase of over 30% compared to
           REF2014. Strategic research support decisions were key to growing and diversifying
           our funding portfolio. Our Faculty Research and Innovation Office (HSSRIO),
           established in 2016, was designed to improve the support available to pursue external
           research funding (see Section 3), from which all Unit members benefit.
 4. To enhance the culture of postgraduate research by increasing Postgraduate Research
    Student (PGR) numbers and the diversity of our PGR body, in particular, to extend PGR
    research on risk and security: ACHIEVED.
       We have achieved this aim with a transformational increase in doctoral completions (from
          26 in REF2014 to 91 in REF2021, +350%). This is in no small part due to the success
          of the pioneering Professional Doctorate in Criminal Justice (DCRIMJ) which has seen
          46 completions in the current REF period. A new professional doctorate in Education
          (EdD) builds on this highly successful recruitment pattern with 56 students enrolled in
          its first three years (see Section 2).
 5. To build on our research on forensic investigation and new forensic technologies:
    ACHIEVED.
        Our innovative partnership with Hampshire Constabulary, in place since 2015, led to the
          creation of the Forensic Innovation Centre. Over £1M has been invested in the Centre
          during the REF period, enabling increased academic staff levels, forensic technicians,
          dedicated space and specialist equipment (see Section 3). It has undertaken innovative
          work on ivory dating in auction settings, 3D printed artefacts as evidence in court, and
          the establishment of novel forensic techniques to combat wildlife crime in the wild (see
          ICS REF3 UoP20FORENSIC).
 6. To take a lead role in the establishment of a new University-wide Cyber Resilience Network:
    ACHIEVED.
       This leading role has led to the development of the Cybercrime Awareness Clinic,
           established in 2017, and has won £275,000 of innovation funding from Hampshire
           Constabulary and the National Cyber Security Centre (see Section 4). The Clinic
           engages in research, innovation, and advises schools, local business and individuals
           on cybersecurity.

 1.3    Future Research Objectives

 Our overarching goal is to continue critical research aimed at transforming policy and practice in
 justice and related sectors. This will help realise the University of Portsmouth’s Resea rch Vision
 and Strategy (REF5a, section 2) and articulates within the University Research Themes (REF5a,
 paragraph 9), particularly Security and Risk and Health and Wellbeing.
 Our objectives for the next five years are:
       1. To increase the volume of external research income by 25%, with a particular focus
          on research council funding, building on the growth established in the current REF
          period.
       2. To benefit society’s most vulnerable groups by focusing research on issues of
          discrimination and disadvantage of BAME individuals in areas such as education and
          criminal justice.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       3. To increase recruitment and completion rates for BAME PGR students.
       4. To expand existing research partnerships and to extend our local, national and
          international impact on policy and practice in police, probation, education (including the
          establishment of a Multi Academy Trust), making a substantial contribution to real
          world research in the university priority themes of Security and Risk, Health and
          Wellbeing, and Democratic Citizenship (REF5a, paragraph 9).
       5. To be a positive force in our local community through research, innovation, public
          engagement and education.

 1.4   Impact Strategy

 Our distinctive strategic approach to impact relies upon close and longstanding partnerships with
 a variety of professional bodies, particularly police organisations, probation services and
 schools. These provide opportunities for regular stakeholder engagement in collaborative
 conferences where practitioners, policy makers and academics interact. This enables our unit to
 adopt a collaborative and agenda-setting approach, and engenders sustainable impact through
 ongoing dialogue with stakeholders.
 These key principles around partnerships translate into two themes that characterise our Impact
 Case Studies (ICS):

 1.4.1 Managing Harms and Vulnerabilities

 Close partnerships created within CCFS and via the annual conference enabled one ICS to raise
 awareness of harm further to fraud with a range of national and international organisations
 (REF3 UoP20FRAUD). Likewise, the research networks and evidence base produced by
 research staff within COFI has enabled impact through national policy change in critical incident
 training and management (REF3 UoP20TRAUMA).

 1.4.2 Enhancing Policing and Investigation

 Our strategy of sustainable collaborative partnerships with the police has resulted in a formal
 research collaboration agreement between Hampshire Constabulary and the University of
 Portsmouth allowing unique access to new police officer cohorts and facilities. The longitudinal
 research that resulted from this has led to the transformation of national policy and practice
 around police tutoring (REF3 UoP20POLICE).
 Similarly, more than ten years of research and practice expertise in forensic investigation has
 resulted in the development of a unique fingerprint recovery process allowing for the collection of
 forensic evidence in the wild. This technique enables the prosecution and disruption of wildlife
 crimes like the trafficking of endangered species in a way previously impossible ( REF3
 UoP20FORENSIC).

 1.5   Open Research Environment and Research Integrity

 1.5.1 Open Access

 The University of Portsmouth Research and Innovation Strategy 2015-2020 emphasises our
 values of ambition, responsibility and openness. The University’s formal Open Access (OA)
 policy, in place since January 2014, has facilitated a subsequent focus on this within our own
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 unit (REF5a, paragraph 24). For Social Work and Social Policy, OA compliance now stands at
 96% of outputs. This is a remarkable transformation from 13% across the Univer sity in 2013. OA
 training and information materials have been made available to engage staff, as they have with
 ORCID. The result is that 100% of submitted unit staff are now ORCID registered.

 1.5.2 Research Ethics

 The 2015-2020 University Strategy also focused upon a commitment to the highest standards of
 academic, professional and research integrity. A result of this focus has been a strong
 infrastructure to strengthen our research governance. In addition to fully embracing the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (REF5a, paragraph 22), there is a focus upon research
 integrity essential to researching vulnerable groups, including those excluded or held by the
 state. There is a well-established set of ethical approval processes in this research area. Our
 postgraduate research students (PGRs) have dedicated ethics and integrity training. They
 undergo a rigorous, two stage minimum, online ethical review process, involving firstly the
 research supervisor, and secondly a departmental ICJS Ethics Committee. Apart fr om its
 operational remit, the ten-strong departmental Ethics Committee works to find practical and
 ethical solutions to research design challenges. Staff rotate through this Ethics Committee to
 ensure widespread learning.
 All staff research proceeds to a Faculty-wide Ethics Committee. In addition, Faculty Ethics
 Committee members provide training for all staff for their own research and supervision, to
 ensure a coherent approach to research integrity.




 2     People

 2.1    Staffing Profile and Strategy

 Our staffing strategy supports the unit's vision and research objectives, and aims to develop the
 existing and emerging strengths of our Specialist Centres and Research Clusters. Our
 recruitment strategy is also aimed at fulfilling our ambitions in cybercrime and forensics , as
 identified in our research objectives. This has led to the appointments of BROWN, EARWAKER
 and SHEPHERD; to appointments to gain expertise in research methods and ethics
 (KARAGIANNOPOULOS, SUGIURA and KAPEND); and in education, social policy and socia l
 justice, appointments to broaden out possibilities for impact across a wider area (e.g.
 CARROLL-MEEHAN, FAIRCHILD, FRANKLIN, MORRIS and STOCKBRIDGE).
 The submitted staff profile includes 6 Lecturers, 15 Senior Lecturers, 4 Principal Lecturers, 6
 Readers, 5 Professors and 2 Heads of School. The number of ECRs is 7. These latter figures
 are comparable to REF2014, when 5 Professors, 4 Readers and 6 ECRs were entered. 85% of
 staff entered are on permanent “Teaching and Research” contracts, reflective of our s trategic
 prioritisation of staff engagement in both teaching and research. All but two staff are full -time.
 Our staff recruitment strategy is informed by our ambition to develop scholars with practice and
 professional experience into world-class researchers. As a result, 16 (42%) have a practitioner
 background providing important grounding, networks and professional insight for applied and
 relevant research priorities and opportunities. Another outcome of this priority is a relatively



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mature staff profile, many having had a professional career prior to joining academia. The age
 profile is: 35 and under: 8 (21%); 36 to 55 years: 24 (63%); 56 and older: 6 (16%).
 Such strong cohorts of former senior professionals have been a feature of our practice for
 decades, with colleagues from professional backgrounds currently including policing
 (EARWAKER, FOX and SMITH), senior probation (GOUGH, PYCROFT and TAPLEY), social
 care (CROSSLAND and MAYNARD), education (CARROLL-MEEHAN and CORBETT), and
 youth work (BLACKBOURN and EDWARDS). All have successfully transitioned into active
 researchers, whilst remaining connected to valuable professional networks and giving voice to
 those populations previously under their care. For example, TAPLEY’S work for the Victims’
 Commissioner in 2016, making a case for the further professionalisation of victims’ services,
 demonstrates how such networks yield benefits for research and serve to empower victims and
 enhance their position in the criminal justice process.
 Our commitment to ethical research is demonstrated by two strategic staff appointments who
 bring cutting-edge expertise on research ethics. SUGIURA is an expert in online research ethics
 and was advisor to the British Sociological Association on its ethics guidelines for online
 research. She served on the ICJS Ethics Committee from 2016-18. KARAGIANNOPOULOS is a
 member of the Institute for Ethical AI and Machine Learning and chaired the Ethics Committee
 from 2015-2018.

 2.2   Staff Development

 2.2.1 Research Development

 Following successive increases in QR income from RAE2008 and REF2014, the unit has
 enhanced its structural support for research development. Our focus on developing former
 practitioners into world-class researchers has been enabled and supported by the creation of a
 centrally-delivered Research and Innovation Staff Development Programme (REF5a, paragraph
 33). We also sponsor colleagues to undertake Doctoral degrees. During this REF period,
 doctorates were sponsored and achieved by 11 colleagues, including four former practition ers.
 All staff are afforded an appropriate allocation of research time in their workload allocation (WLA,
 REF5a, paragraphs 2, 53). An allowance of 20% is the baseline allocation for those with a
 significant responsibility for undertaking research as part of their role. This can be increased by
 increments up to 30%. Allocations are governed by transparent rules and processes,
 implemented by Heads of School and overseen by the Executive Dean of the Faculty. Research
 is covered in induction ‘onboarding’ events for new staff, discussed in the 6-month probationary
 interview and integrated into the annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) process.
 Colleagues in the unit meet with their departmental Associate Head (Research) annually to
 discuss progress, and all staff have a research mentor.

 2.2.2 Professional Development Allowance

 All staff are entitled to an annual Professional Development Allowance (PDA) of £1500, which
 may be spent on research travel and other relevant career -enhancing activities. For example,
 WADIE used her PDA to conduct research interviews in two UK police forces for a new project
 focused on police divers. SHAWYER used her funds to present her research on covert human
 intelligence sources at the British Psychological Society’s Military Confe rence in 2018. TAPLEY
 used hers to attend the Ministry of Justice’s Victim Strategy Working Group. Importantly, the

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PDA provides colleagues ownership of their research-related development and as such provides
 colleagues with the agency to take decisions about what will best support them in the delivery of
 their research.

 2.2.3 Early Career Researchers

 ECR colleagues join Research Clusters and receive the full annual PDA. They are provided with
 enhanced mentoring, timetabling protection, and a 20% research workloa d allowance to enable
 them to develop their research profile over their first two years of employment. ECRs can also,
 as individuals or as part of a team, bid for money for a specific research project from QR funds
 (see Section 3). This possibility allowed COLLIE to further specialise his research on missing
 children into further work on child abduction. KAPEND gained internal funding to study
 fluctuations in prison populations in DR Congo and from this established a link with the
 University of Lubumbashi, a leading university located in the country’s second biggest city.
 Our ECRs have established a network providing local events and other services, promoting a
 strong and cohesive research community. On a bi-weekly basis, the ECR Network hosts an
 event, including workshops led by senior colleagues on topics such as selecting a journal for
 publication, dealing with reviewer feedback, or securing a book contract. They also hold open
 floor events for ECRs, and more conversational coffee meetings. Through these n etworks, a
 sense of community is engendered among ECRs.
 In addition, the unit actively encourages ECRs to undertake collaborative research with more
 experienced colleagues. Within our Research Clusters and Specialist Centres, many such
 collaborations have formed, leading to joint research bids and publications including jointly
 edited books (e.g. PYCROFT and GOUGH (2019) Multi Agency Working in Criminal Justice;
 PRITCHARD and PAKES (2014) Riot, Unrest and Protest on the Global Stage), and enduring
 research partnerships between professors and (past) ECRs (e.g. MILNE with DALTON and
 SHAWYER; BUTTON with SHEPHERD and BLACKBOURN). This community-based, facilitative
 and inclusive research culture enables ECRs to develop strong research careers and enables
 the unit to manage and succession plan to ensure long-term vitality and sustainability.

 2.2.4 Staff Retention and Profile

 Our inclusive research culture is evidenced in excellent levels of staff retention, with four of our
 five current professors (BUTTON, CREATON, MILNE and PAKES) having joined the University
 of Portsmouth as ECRs. Within the submission, 19 staff (50%) have been employed by the
 University of Portsmouth for over a decade, highlighting our long-term support of staff and focus
 on the sustainability of our research environment. For example, MILNE and CHARMAN mark
 impressive trajectories of growth over 20 years, having started as Lecturer and Research
 Assistant, now Professor and Reader (respectively). They have achieved strong international
 reputations as female researchers in the historically male-dominated area of policing.
 Of the 38 staff submitted, 7 are non-British (18%, 5 EU, 2 non-EU), slightly below the subject
 area average of 22.5%. Many have strong upward career trajectories. These include
 KARAGIANNOPOULOS (Greek national) who has progressed from Lecturer to Reader,
 SHALEV GREENE (Israeli) who also progressed from Lecturer to Reader, and PAKES (Dutch)
 who has progressed from Lecturer to Professor. The unit has hosted visiting international
 scholars from countries including Brazil, China, Iceland and South Korea. This reflects our
 inclusive, multicultural environment, as well as our excellent international reputation.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.5 Sabbatical Policy

 A university-wide Sabbatical Policy for full-time and part-time staff was established in 2016,
 which has enabled our staff to use sabbatical leave in order to generate new partnerships,
 projects, outputs and networks (REF5a, paragraph 36). Sabbaticals are open to those with at
 least three years’ continuous service and, to increase accessibility, may be taken as one
 semester full-time or two semesters part-time.
 Five colleagues in our unit have secured a sabbatical through this scheme - BROWN,
 CREATON, MAYNARD, SMITH and KARAGIANNOPOULOS (2m/3f). SMITH continued
 research into forensic methods for wildlife crime in his sabbatical, working in India with wildlife
 crime enforcement officers. This resulted in a workable method to lift finger marks off Pangolin
 scales, and strengthened links with international partners (ICS – REF3 UoP20FORENSIC).
 In her sabbatical, MAYNARD examined the lived experiences of complex families needing social
 care agency support. This has resulted in direct impact on local council staff based in Children’s
 Services. CREATON’s sabbatical resulted in a research paper, three conference papers, and a
 book contract. She was also an Organising Committee member (with the UK Council of
 Graduate Education and the University of Sussex) for the First International Conference on
 Postgraduate Mental Health and Wellbeing (May 2019). The completion of BROWN’s sabbatical
 was delayed by COVID-19.

 2.3   Training and Supervision of PGRs and PGR Outcomes

 Our recruitment strategy for doctoral students has a dual approach. Firstly, full bursaries are
 offered at Faculty level, including living expenses and fees to support economically
 disadvantaged doctoral students. In this REF period, six full bursaries were awarded to students
 working on projects involving forensics, social justice, and corruption. Three of these have since
 joined as staff (JETTEN, MCCONIGAL and UIBARIU).
 Secondly, to further our aim of having our research penetrate relevant professions, recruitment
 focuses on existing networks and relevant professional organisations. This has particularly
 benefited our Professional Doctorate programmes, which have now blossomed with sizable
 annual cohorts (see below).
 All staff involved in PGR recruitment undertake the compulsory Graduate School training
 module, Best Practice in the Selection and Recruitment of PGR students. Staff also undertake
 training in being 1st/2nd supervisor and on undertaking viva voce examinations. At least one
 member of any recruitment interview has Trained Interviewer (TI) status. Locally, the Unit has
 established a practice of involving less experienced examiners in the undertaking of mock vivas,
 which are offered to all doctoral students, resulting in valuable experience for both student and
 staff member.
 Skills-building takes place at central and local levels. Our PGR students have been able to
 benefit from the University’s comprehensive Development Programme which is delivered
 through our Graduate School (REF5a, paragraph 38). Within the unit, we mix skills and
 community building in events such as Thesis Boot Camps, a monthly lunchtime PGR seminar
 series organised by our PGRs, and an annual Faculty-wide PGR Conference.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Utilising the same blend of community building, skills building and harnessing the organisational
 skills within the cohorts, PGR course representatives also organise monthly research -in-
 progress sessions. During the COVID-19 pandemic, such sessions moved successfully online.
 There is also a more formal annual review process that includes an assessor external to the
 supervisory team. In the 2018 PRES survey, 85% of students were satisfied with these
 processes, placing us in the top quartile. We were also in the upper quartile for research skills
 (91%) and wellbeing (78%), the latter having been the focus of a specific project funded by the
 HEFCE (now Office for Students) Catalyst Fund (CREATON).

 2.3.1 Research Student Support Research

 In terms of research student support, the research of CREATON has been crucial. As Principal
 Investigator (PI), she was awarded £150,000 from the HEFCE (now Office for Students) Catalyst
 Fund for a project to improve the mental health and wellbeing of postgraduate research students
 in May 2018. This project’s outcomes demonstrated that a strong research culture can enhance
 mental health and wellbeing by providing opportunities for developing and sustaining good soc ial
 support networks, building cohorts, and creating a sense of belonging.
 Key messages derived from the research about mental health and wellbeing are now embedded
 in all university and faculty induction sessions for PGR students (REF5a, paragraph 39). New
 additional sessions cover topics such as thriving and surviving in academia, “imposter
 syndrome”, and work life balance.
 A key outcome of the project has been the development of a mental health and wellbeing lens
 for the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF). This lens foregrounds those factors
 which are most central to creating a healthy environment and culture in order to protect both the
 mental health of the individual and of others.

 2.3.2 Professional Doctorates

 Professional doctorates are core to our research strategy and the vitality of our research
 environment. Our Professional Doctorate in Criminal Justice, unique when launched in 2007,
 was joined in 2013 by our Professional Doctorate in Security Risk Management. Together these
 represent the largest set of professional doctoral programmes for criminal justice and security
 professionals in the UK.
 Undertaken part-time, professional doctoral students progress through a two-year taught phase
 of regular residential workshops, completing four assessed modules. They are supported by a
 dedicated course leader, module leaders, are assigned a supervisory team and, where
 appropriate, a workplace mentor.
 All professional doctoral students deliver a formally assessed public lecture on their research on
 the day of their viva examination, further enhancing our research culture. The professional
 doctorate empowers professionals to become researching professionals, bringing both academic
 knowledge, social science research methods, as well as an emphasis in reflexivity in
 professional practice. This is a vital pillar of our strategy to bridge the gap between academic
 and professional knowledge, and it evidences our enduring commitment to the University’s
 Security and Risk thematic research priority.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Overall, our Doctoral Completion data are as below:

    Type of
                   2013/4   2014/5     2015/6    2016/7    2017/8    2018/9 2019/20 TOTAL
    Doctorate

    PhD               2         4         4         4         9         4         7        34

    ProfDocs:

    DCRIMJ            2         8         6         9        11         5         5        46

    DSyRM                                 2                   2                   1        5

    DSW                         1                             1                            2

    DNURSING                                                            1         1        2

    DBMS                                                                          1        1

    DBA                                                                           1        1

    ProfDoc
                      2         9         8         9        14         6         9        57
    Total

    TOTAL             4        13        12        13        23        10        16        91

 (DCRIMJ - Professional Doctorate Criminal Justice; DSyRM - Professional Doctorate Security
 Risk Management; DSW - Professional Doctorate Social Work; DNURSING - Professional
 Doctorate Nursing; DBMS - Professional Doctorate Biomedical Sciences; DBA - Professional
 Doctorate Business Administration).

 There have been 46 completions in the REF period for the Professional Doctorate in Criminal
 Justice (29m/17f) and 5 (5m) completions on the newer Professional Doctorate in Risk Security
 Management. In addition, there have been 34 PhD completions (20m/14f). In REF2014 we
 reported 26 doctoral completions, making this a 350% increase.
 With completions in Professional Doctorates in two other Faculties (DSW, DNURSING and
 DBMS in the Faculty of Science and Health, and the DBA in the Faculty of Business and Law),
 unit colleagues have facilitated completions beyond the confines of our Faculty, highlighting their
 broad research expertise.
 Building on this success, our Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD) launched in 2017. It
 currently has 56 students enrolled (24m/32f), including teachers, lecturers, learning support
 professionals, trainers, educational consultants and early years practitioners.
 For many graduates the professional doctorate indeed facilitated career progression. Some have
 pursued academic careers, while others have developed professionally, and some have done
 both, such as a police officer graduate who was promoted to Superintendent and received a
 Fulbright Scholarship at John Jay College, New York University. Some have taken on new
 professional challenges, like a graduate who moved on from their police force to a senior
 position at Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services (HMICFRS),
 and another graduate who is now a registered intermediary, providing support to vulnerable
                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 suspects, and has since become a member of the Parole Board. Four graduates have published
 or adapted their thesis in book form in this REF period.
 Our PhD graduates have had similar successes. One graduate was promoted to Commander in
 the Metropolitan Police Service, leading on neighbourhood policing and community engagement
 across London. She is now the most senior black female police officer in the UK. Another
 graduate is now the head of the behavioural and personality analysis section in the Dubai Police
 General Department of Forensic Evidence and Criminology and is currently transforming
 interview training in the Dubai police and across the United Arab Emirates. Also noteworthy is a
 unique achievement: one PhD student conducted his research and successful PhD defence
 entirely as a long-term Category A prisoner from within a High Security prison in the UK.

 2.4   Equality and Diversity

 Our resolute focus on mentoring and the specific encouraging of internal funding streams to
 women, as well as specific successes in staff recruitment, has led to a positive reversal of the
 gender balance in our unit. In REF2021, this unit is submitting 20 women (53%) and 18 men,
 compared to 10 women (47%) and 14 men in REF2014. More than half of all research -based
 promotions since 2014 have been women, including three professorial posts (CREATON,
 FRANKLIN and MILNE).
 Women in our unit have benefitted from intensive research mentoring and support, from ECRs to
 professors. PRIEGO HERNANDEZ and SUGIURA were awarded internally-funded Themes
 Research and Innovation Fund (TRIF) fellowships in 2018 (REF5a, paragraph 12), furthering
 research in a University thematic priority area and accelerating their highly promising research
 careers. SUGIURA, for instance, developed her work on gender, misogyny and cybersecurity.
 BROWN and SHALEV GREENE were also awarded TRIF project funding in 2018. BROWN
 commenced her decomposition research to further a multidisciplinary approach to death scene
 reconstruction, and SHALEV GREENE connected her work on missing peo ple to search and
 rescue practices.
 Others have benefitted from faculty-level QR funding for projects, allowing them to take the role
 of research lead into novel areas. Women, ECRs and new appointments with a practice
 background are encouraged to apply to this funding stream. EARWAKER’s research on novel
 imaging techniques to uncover fingerprints, and SHAWYER’s research on communication in fire
 and rescue operations, has allowed them to gain valuable research leadership experience.
 SADOK also led a project on global cyber governance. A range of internal funding mechanisms
 have been successfully targeted by women in the unit, who gained valuable research leadership
 skills as a result. New appointments of women have further strengthened our research
 community including CARROLL-MEEHAN, FAIRCHILD, FRANKLIN and MORRIS.
 The inclusive nature of our research culture is further exemplified by the fact that the extent of
 disabilities declared is higher than the average for the subject area. Four colleagues (11%)
 submitted have declared a disability, compared to the national average for Social Work and
 Social Policy of 6.8%. The same is true for BAME, with four colleagues (11%) identifying as
 BAME (we recognise that this terminology is imperfect, but have used it here be cause it is used
 within current reporting systems). This is 9.1% for the Social Work and Social Policy subject
 area (data from Advance HE, 2020). These statistics exemplify the inclusive nature of our
 research culture.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moreover, our unit is committed to research that promotes a better understanding of equality and
 diversity issues. FRANKLIN’s research gives voice to disabled LGBT+ young people; SUGIURA
 researches the nature and effect of online misogyny and so-called InCel communities;
 TAPLEY’s work empowers victims of domestic violence; MILNE’s research contributes to
 improving rape investigation by the police; and MORRIS’s research on class, friendship and love
 demonstrates empathetic insight into the lives of single mothers in the UK. In this fashion
 equality and diversity issues positively affect our research priorities, our research approach, and
 the composition of our staff profile.

 2.4.1 Policies and Training

 Unit members are supported via the Flexible Working Policy, which protects periods of the day
 for childcare and other such commitments (REF5a, paragraph 46). The Professional
 Development Allowance covers childcare costs when staff are away for research, in accordance
 with the University’s Travel Policy. Members have also participated in Advance HE’s Aurora
 Programme, which supports those who identify as women to develop their leadership potential.
 The Navigator Programme similarly supports those who identify as men to fulfil their potential,
 encouraging them to reflect on their home and work life (REF5a, paragraph 35). Springboard is
 also on offer for women focusing on confidence building, goal setting and communication. Within
 the wider unit, 15 people have completed, or are currently taking, these courses (Aurora 5,
 Springboard 8, and Navigator 2). Furthermore, any female staff considering promotion to Reader
 or Professor have access to a promotion mentor to assist with career progression planning.

 2.4.2 REF submission

 The University’s REF Code of Practice provided guidance for our REF portfolio (University of
 Portsmouth REF2021 Code of Practice, Section 4.2). Initially, all colleagues were attributed one
 output. The rest of the output portfolio was then assembled considering the quality of the
 remainder of the outputs, further to internal and/or external peer r atings and within attribution
 regulations set. In case of a tie, the Code of Practice listed a number of decision criteria to
 follow. Finally, preference was given to outputs with a strong thematic fit with the unit, and to
 work by presently, rather than formerly, employed colleagues.
 Our output profile is broadly commensurate with the staff profile: 55% of outputs are attributed to
 a female author; 8% to BAME colleagues; 11% with a declared disability; and 13% to colleagues
 on part-time contracts. All relevant staff have completed training on ‘Equality and Diversity’,
 ‘Unconscious Bias’ and ‘Bullying and Harassment’.



 3     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1    Income

 Staff in the unit have secured £810,000 in research funding; an increase of 30% from REF2014.
 In this REF period, 16 colleagues (9m/7f) have been PIs for 60 successful funding bids. In the
 last three years, we gained £477,000 (59%), showing increasing momentum in our research
 income generation. In addition, we achieved a seven-fold increase in RCUK funding, now the
 largest category (£298,000), compared to the REF2014 period. The unit achieved its first
 EPSRC grant (WANG), examining issues of privacy, security and trust in relation to the release
                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of government data. An ESRC grant (MILNE) furthered work on police interviewing, and
 BROWN gained an AHRC grant for a project on identifying the potential for locusts in forensic
 practice. As an example of our continuing upward trajectory, in July 2020, CHARMAN and
 SMITH won a £170,000 ESRC grant to study the impact of COVID-19 on policing.
 Government funding (£204,000), the largest funding category for the unit in REF2014, is the
 second biggest for this period. This allowed, for instance, ELLIS and SMITH to undertake
 research on body-worn cameras in policing. This work is now internationally recognised, with
 evaluations of its application in Asia, and beyond policing, such as in healthcare settings. It is an
 example of government-related research funding directly applying to practice, to deliver the
 unit’s research and impact strategy and objectives.

 3.2   Infrastructure

 The University of Portsmouth devolves its QR income to its five Faculties, who are accountable
 to the University Executive and the University R&I Committee (URIC) (REF5a, paragraph 12).
 The faculty QR budget (just over £1M per annum) is managed by the Faculty Research and
 Innovation Committee (FRIC) through its chair, the Faculty’s Associate Dean (Research).
 PhD bursaries represent approximately 40% of the budget; around 20% is used for academic
 staff PDAs; the remainder, for research staffing, conference support, matched funding and
 strategic projects. The latter is awarded through an annual competitive process which assesses
 bids based on strategic importance, interdisciplinarity, innovation, engag ement, impact, future
 external funding, and the development of early career researchers.
 Project funding has allowed PAKES to shift his penological research to Nordic prisons; GOUGH
 used it to establish a research link with a UK open prison; BUTTON started work on the mental
 health of security operatives; CREATON commenced work on wellbeing in Higher Education,
 leading to the aforementioned funding from HEFCE (now Office for Students) Catalyst Fund (see
 Section 2). SUGIURA’s work on online misogyny also started with this internal funding. A project
 on forms of justice in relation to fraud allowed BUTTON and colleagues to gain funding to scope
 out civic, regulatory and private pathways to justice. This demonstrates how project funding
 allows colleagues to seize opportunities, take risks, work towards major funding bids, and
 consider impact opportunities early.
 A supportive infrastructure for income generation is provided by the University’s Research and
 Innovation Services department (RIS) (REF5a, paragraph 20), which supports grant writing
 through three dedicated Research Grants Officers and manages the University’s Peer Review
 College for major bids (REF5a, paragraph 56). The unit also benefits from a local collegiate peer
 review process, and successful colleagues mentor and share bids with those targeting similar
 schemes.

 3.2.1 The Humanities and Social Science Research and Innovation Office (HSSRIO)

 Locally, the HSSRIO, directed by the Faculty’s Innovation Manager, provides academic, financial
 and administrative support. HSSRIO staffing includes a Postgraduate Centre Officer (overseeing
 relations with PGRs), a Senior Research Secretary, two Senior Finance Officers with pre - and
 post-award responsibilities, and a dedicated Research and Innovation Officer. Finally, the
 Research and Innovation Administrator assists with event organisation, research
 communications, maintaining research profiles and the Research and Innovation Information


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 System.
 HSSRIO offers discipline-specific support to all staff developing external bids, and in doing so
 interfaces between academics and central services such as Finance and Research and
 Innovation Services. HSSRIO also provides expertise on funding bodies, engages in horizon
 scanning to disseminate information about funding opportunities as they arise, based on its in-
 depth knowledge of staff areas of expertise, and organises regular workshops.
 To create clear pathways to impact, we require all internally-funded project proposals to address
 impact, and we ring-fence funding within successful projects for promoting external impact-
 oriented engagement. Projects are assigned a specialist Impact Officer to ensure that impact is
 achieved and evidenced. All Impact Case Study authors have also benefitted from an externally
 delivered training day on impact (February 2019). Feedback has shown that this has helped
 colleagues in the unit to understand impact in Social Work and Social Policy more clearly and
 appreciate the various types of evidence to demonstrate impact better. The unit’s Impact Lea d,
 MILNE, brings leadership on impact and connects centrally with the university -wide Impact
 Working Group.
 All Impact Case Studies have benefitted from a locally held Impact Fund. This has funded
 BUTTON to seek organisational evidence of the impact of their fraud measurement research
 with civil servants at HM Treasury (REF3 UoP20FRAUD); CHARMAN has re-interviewed police
 officers in Hampshire Constabulary to establish the impact of her research on police training and
 socialisation (REF3 UoP20POLICE); and MILNE has undertaken end-user interviews with
 counter-terrorism investigators (REF3 UoP20TRAUMA). SMITH and colleagues sought
 evidence of the impact of field kits for evidence gathering, in relation to the illegal trafficking of
 the pangolin species (REF3 UoP20FORENSIC).

 3.3   Facilities

 Our unique forensic facilities support a distinctive, impactful forensic research environment that
 few if any HEIs are able to offer. Over the last few years, we have invested just over £1M in our
 forensics infrastructure, with resources including simulation spaces and capacious rooms, with
 over 200m2 of open space. We use vehicles and outside areas for constructing incident
 simulations in realistic settings. These spaces allow testing and innovation, exploring decision -
 making in pressured situations, and measuring the psychological responses to the incidents
 encountered. This simulation space is used in conjunction with a forensic research laboratory,
 which has over £500k of analytical equipment, including fingerprint detection syst ems, a
 microscopy room, an ecological evidence analysis centre, and a purpose -built alternative light
 source studio with forensic lasers and other bespoke detection devices. This supports our 3D
 imaging and analysis centre, with 3D printing, virtual and augmented reality. For example, the
 3D printing and 3D reconstruction space was recently used in a case where sensitive skeletal
 data was 3D printed and used to demonstrate injuries without subjecting investigators to graphic
 images. The range of work of the FIC (including teaching, innovation, consultancy and public
 outreach over and above research) is supported by a senior forensic technician (1FTE,
 MCGUIGAN) and two forensic technicians (2FTE, SALA and TYLER).

 In addition, the Centre of Forensic Interviewing (COFI) benefits from two interview suites, each
 consisting of an interview room and linked observation room, plus a generic meeting room/work
 space and a secure physical storage facility. Dedicated recording and analysis equipment worth


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £10k facilitates data gathering and analysis. This set-up has supported the work of 10 doctoral
 students and the empirical work of over 30 research outputs.



 4     Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1    Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Collaboration is fundamental to our research strategy, and staff undertake research both with
 other UK universities and internationally. For example, BROWN’s interdisciplin ary locust project
 is being undertaken with the University of Warwick and the Glasgow School of Art. EDWARDS is
 part of the Southern Universities Network, researching educational exclusions. WANG has
 worked extensively with the University of Swansea, CARROLL-MEEHAN with Canterbury
 Christchurch University, SUGIURA with the University of Southampton, PYCROFT with the
 University of Northern Iowa, USA, PAKES with the University of Iceland and Leiden University,
 Netherlands, and MILNE with the University of Queensland, Charles Sturt University and Griffith
 University, Australia, and the University of Bergen, Norway.
 Creating and sustaining productive relationships with relevant professional bodies and
 audiences is at the core of our research identity. Colleagues are therefore encouraged to
 engage in the governance and strategic support of these organisations. TAPLEY, for example, is
 a member of Vera Baird’s Victims’ Commissioner’s Advisory Group, the Hampshire and Isle of
 Wight Specialist Domestic Abuse Forum, a Trustee for Aurora Dawn, a member of the
 Independent Commission on the Experiences of Long Term Prisoners and Victims being
 conducted by Bishop James Jones, and a member of the Gold Command Advisory Board for
 Operation Magenta (acting on behalf of the Victims’ Commissioner), an investigation into the
 Gosport War Memorial Deaths, the biggest investigation of its kind.
 FOX is a member of the Professional Advisory Group for the National Child Mortality database
 and a member of the International Network for the Prevention and Investigation of Child Death.
 MILNE is Academic lead member of the National Police Chiefs Council (NPCC) Investigative
 Interviewing Strategic Steering Group. She is also an invited member of the Convention Against
 Torture Initiative, UN Group of Friends, and a member of the British Psychological Society’s
 Memory Based Evidence Independent Review Group. SUGIURA is Chair of the Strategic
 Advisory Independent Group for Hampshire Constabulary, which reviews and challenges
 policing practices across the Constabulary (e.g. “Stop and search”). WAKEFIELD is Chairman of
 the Security Institute (the UK's main member association for security professionals with over
 2,500 members). In her tenure, she has enhanced the profession’s focus on both cybersecurity
 and emergency preparedness.
 Our four ICSs represent only a small fraction of the positive societal impact of our work. Working
 with a local police force, the Centre for Missing Persons has been able to establish for the first
 time the cost of missing persons investigations. It found that a regular missing person
 investigation costs the police between £1,325.33 and £2,415.80, meaning they require more
 police resources than volume crimes like theft or assault (SHALEV GREENE and PAKES).
 Another project highlighted the frequency of children going missing from a small number of care
 homes in a specific area in the UK. This led to increased liaison between the police and these
 care homes and as a result, the number of missing episodes was nearly halved, savin g valuable
 police resources and increasing the wellbeing of the children. A further example is the

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP. BUTTON and WANG developed the Cyber
 Vulnerability Scorecard to facilitate organisations’ assessment of their cyber vulnerabilities and
 identification of the steps necessary to strengthen their cybersecurity. Our strategic ambitions
 have been realised through this type of collaborative work. In addition, two major examples are
 provided below.

 4.1.1 The Forensic Innovation Centre (FIC)

 The FIC, a collaboration between Hampshire Constabulary and the University of Portsmouth, is
 the first operational police forensic unit to be based on a University campus. Representatives
 from both organisations work together to design and implement research for an applied need,
 based on a discernible gap in forensic knowledge or practice. This unique collaboration has
 received prestigious external recognition. The FIC won a Times Higher Education Award for
 Outstanding Employer Engagement in 2015; it has been cited as an example of a successful,
 mutually-beneficial collaboration and good practice in the 2016 Home Office Forensic Strategy. It
 has also been cited as an example of innovative collaboration in the 2018 University UK
 document, ‘Routes to High-Levels Skills’.

 Through the FIC we share our simulation and forensic research space with Hampshire
 Constabulary and fingerprint development teams, where practitioners and academics collaborate
 directly to develop applied research. We also work with the Royal Military Police at the Defence
 School of Policing and Guarding at Southwick Park, just north of Portsmouth. On this site, we
 work together on a range of forensic research projects, principally focusing on ecological
 research, including body location, and search and recovery techniques.

 The FIC makes a wider contribution to society through its outreach activities. Local schools and
 colleges attend the FIC as part of the University’s outreach programme to further its strategic
 civic ambitions (REF5a, paragraph 16). Additionally, the research work of the FIC is showcased
 during regular public Forensic Open Days. This outreach work is an important part of our
 collaborative work with local communities and has had a significant impact on recruitment to the
 Forensic Studies programme. UCAS data from 2018 show that 25% of young people in
 Portsmouth, 21% in Havant and 28% on the Isle of Wight applied to university compared to the
 37% average for England. The work of the FIC and the research of the unit more widely plays a
 role in seeking to improve these figures.

 4.1.2 The Cybercrime Awareness Clinic (CAC)

 The CAC was established in 2017 and is based in the Institute of Criminal Justice Studies. It is
 an innovative research and collaboration space, which involves researchers, community
 stakeholders and the public in mapping cyber-threats and providing tailored advice. Its goals are:

      1. Through its research activities, the Clinic aims to increase the knowledge of the
         cybercrime threats and risks that relate to vulnerable groups, and to enhance the
         impact of our research on policy and practice by assisting the police to tailor their
         responses to different and emerging forms of cybercrime.
      2. Based upon its research findings, to provide advice to vulnerable groups in the local
         area, focusing mainly on young people in schools and colleges, small and medium
         organisations (SMOs), and older people.


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       3. To develop a transferable model for the implementation of CACs across the UK and
          beyond.
 The collaborative work of the CAC has now expanded beyond Hampshire and, in conjunction
 with the National Cyber Security Centre, has been launched and funded nationwide, ensuring
 the sustainability of the project.

 4.2   Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 4.2.1 Journals and Publications

 Colleagues in the unit make active contributions to the wider research community and in
 particular to the (sub-)disciplines of criminology, education, social policy, policing and forensics.
 We train, mentor and otherwise encourage our colleagues in academic citizenship activities
 including sessions on journal editorship, article review, networking, academic identity, and
 research resilience.

 Senior colleagues hold editorial positions in high ranking academic journals. For example,
 CHARMAN is Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Law, Crime and Justice, WILLIAMS
 is the Associate Editor of Salus Journal. Editorial board positions include BROWN (Forensic
 Science International), BUTTON (Security Journal; International Journal for Crime, Justice and
 Social Democracy; Asia-Pacific Journal of Police and Criminal Justice); EARWAKER (Forensic
 Science International: Synergy); EDWARDS (Buckingham Education Journal); ELLIS (Crime
 Prevention and Community Safety; Internet Journal of Criminology); FAIRCHILD (Contemporary
 Issues in Early Childhood); MAYNARD (Qualitative Research in Psychology); MILNE (British
 Journal of Psychology; International Journal of Police Science and Management; Frontiers:
 Forensic and Legal Psychology; Journal of Investigative Psychology and Offender Profiling;
 Journal of Police and Criminal Psychology); FAIRCHILD (Contemporary Issues in Early
 Childhood); PAKES (Incarceration); and SUGIURA (Sociology Lens).

 4.2.2 Conferences

 The unit has hosted and organised a number of prestigious international conferences including
 the 14th International Ethnography Symposium (2019, funded by the Socie ty for Advanced
 Management Studies), the Children, Justice and Communication Conference (2017, funded by
 the ESRC), and the Economic and Industrial Espionage Conference (2018, accredited by the
 Security Institute).
 The unit established the bi-annual International Conferences on Missing Children and Adults,
 first held in Portsmouth and now held throughout Europe, and the annual Counter Fraud
 Conference, held in Portsmouth and welcoming national and international speakers. The unit
 also has a long-standing relationship with the British Society of Criminology, having organised its
 main conference twice, with current and former members in key executive posts such as
 Treasurer (e.g. WILLIAMS).

 4.2.3 Expertise and Awards

 Members of our unit have provided expert reviews for funding bodies, e.g. ESRC, AHRC, British
 Council, British Academy, the Nuffield Foundation, and the European Science Foundation. Our
 submitted members have delivered over 20 prominent keynote speeches, including to the

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lithuanian Parliament (CARROLL-MEEHAN), Interpol (SHEPHERD), the Cabinet Office
 (BUTTON), the Royal United Services Institute (WANG), and the United Nations (MILNE). The
 contribution of our staff has been recognised externally through prestigious awards and
 nominations, such as an MBE (EDWARDS), Emerald Outstanding Paper awards (BUTTON,
 WAKEFIELD & SHEPHERD; MILNE), the British Psychological Society Excellence in Forensic
 Psychology Research award (MILNE), and as a BBC Expert Woman (CHARMAN).

 4.2.4 Community

 We have built strong community links and our ambitions to engage positively across our region
 help give shape to the University of Portsmouth’s vision to become a leading civic university.
 This is evidenced through our strategic partnership with Hampshire Constabulary, leading to the
 success of the Forensic Innovation Centre and the production of the ICSs relating to both
 policing and forensics (REF3 UoP20FORENSIC and REF3 UoP20POLICE).
 In addition, ELLIS and SMITH were involved in the evaluation of police body -worn cameras on
 the neighbouring Isle of Wight, finding an increase in prosecutions of domestic assaults and a
 decrease in complaints against the police. In forensics, BROWN’s work with Hampshire
 Constabulary and Southampton General Hospital is producing 3D and virtual models of
 evidence for presentation in court, and 3D bone replicas for post-mortem reconstruction.
 Working with Portsmouth City Council, MAYNARD’s research has shaped policies on complex
 families and working with PYCROFT, research-informed practices have been shared on drug-
 taking amongst young people.
 CARROLL-MEEHAN’s research on ‘Being, Belonging and Becoming’ is providing the foundation
 for the development of the University of Portsmouth Multi Academy Trust. She has worked
 closely with local schools to ensure that the children and families are central to the work of the
 Trust to improve children's lives and education outcomes.
 All this local community engagement is in addition to the work of the FIC and the CAC, which are
 strategically embedded within local structures of governance and support.




                                                                                           Page 19
