Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bradford

 Unit of Assessment: A3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Bradford is organised into four Faculties, each subdivided into Schools.
 Thematic research groupings are either Faculty-based or cross-Faculty. Research within the
 remit of A3 is carried out in the Faculties of Life Sciences (FoLS) and Health Studies (FoHS) and
 span a broad range of research interests. These include basic science, drug development, pre-
 clinical and clinical testing of novel therapeutics and development of innovative interventions to
 improve health outcomes, with particular strengths in dementia, safe use of medicines and
 health technologies. Some staff carry out and facilitate interdisciplinary work in University
 leadership roles [e.g. Breen, Rattray see below]; others mainly collaborate externally [e.g.
 Goldman, Taylor]. Research groupings have developed and grown or merged into larger units
 since REF2014. The four current research groupings are:

 •   Applied Health Research: [Breen, Cooper, Daly-Smith, Downs, Faisal, Fylan, Gardner,
     Hardy, Jones D, Lord, Meehan, Mohammed, Morgan, Mountain, Oyebode, Parveen, Quinn,
     Randell, Rattray, Silcock, Small, Zaman]; previously Healthcare Practice in REF2014 and
     extends across FoLS and FoHS including the Centre for Applied Dementia Studies and the
     Medicines Optimisation Research Group.

 •   Non-communicable Diseases: mechanisms, therapeutics and pharmaceutical advances
     [Afarinkia, Anderson, Elias-Gomez, Falconer, Gopalan, Graham, Grimaldi, Helfer, Isreb,
     Jones HS, Kantamneni, Loadman, McLean, Moody, Muller, Nasim, Nyathi, Paluch,
     Paradkar, Pors, Riches-Suman, Sheldrake, Shnyder, Vangala, Waby, Wheelhouse,
     Williamson, Wilshaw]; previously Cancer Therapeutics and Medicines Development in
     REF2014. Mainly based in FoLS and includes the Institute for Cancer Therapeutics (ICT) as
     well as the Centre for Pharmaceutical Engineering Science (CPES).

 •   Skin Sciences: [Ansell, Fessing, Liu, Mardaryev, Poterlowicz, Swaminathan, Thornton]
     based in FoLS (Centre for Skin Sciences, CSS) and part of REF2014 submission.

 •   Vision Science: [Barrett, Bloj, Denniss, Elliott, Ghorbani- Mojarrad, Heron, Mallen,
     McKeefry, Rountree] based in FoLS and part of REF2014 submission.

 Applied Health Research

 Colleagues undertaking applied health research aim to address health inequalities, improve child
 health outcomes, support healthy ageing and improve patient safety. This research includes
 both quantitative and qualitative studies into service evaluation, the development and testing of
 health interventions and the design of both technologies and training to enhance the quality of
 health service provision. The involvement of end users of this research from the design stage
 onwards is central to all our work and demands interdisciplinarity and partnership working with
 all stakeholders including NHS and charity organisations, community-based enterprises, service
 users, carers and the general public. During this REF period, the partnerships necessary to
 achieve research co-creation have expanded and strengthened, enabled by University
 investment alongside Bradford Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (BTHFT, including
 Bradford Institute for Health Research, BIHR), the University of Leeds and the Wolfson
 Foundation. This has resulted in establishment of the Wolfson Centre for Applied Health
 Research (CAHR); Bradford academic lead Rattray.

 Wolfson CAHR aims to develop population-based evidence and interventions, influencing policy
 and practice and ultimately improving health and wellbeing for all. Sited at BTHFT, the location
 enables multi-profession teams including clinical professionals such as pharmacists, nurses,
 physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and optometrists from BTHFT and BIHR to work
 alongside researchers from the University of Bradford to ensure that research can provide real
                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 world benefit by facilitating translation of applied health research into practice. Partnership with
 the University of Leeds has also been key for establishing the NIHR Yorkshire and Humber
 Patient Safety Translational Research Centre (YHPSTR) (section 4).

 Our Applied Health researchers lead studies to address health inequalities revealed by the Born
 in Bradford (BiB) longitudinal cohort study of over 30,000 Bradfordians (section 4) which is
 tracking individual life courses from birth and is continuing to reveal factors that contribute
 towards poor health outcomes. Access to extensive health, social care and educational data
 collected from the cohort enable our academics to develop and test interventions.

 The Centre for Applied Dementia Studies continues to revolutionise healthcare for people living
 with dementia through applied research into ageing and dementia. This research is focussed
 upon enabling people to live as well as possible with dementia and other conditions of later life
 through evidence-based interventions and quality service provision. This portfolio of research
 has been funded by UKRI, NIHR and charitable funders (section 3). The research has been
 translated into impactful education and training products for the health and social care workforce
 [ICS A3-5]. The Centre’s postgraduate activity includes Alzheimer’s Society-funded Bradford
 Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) (2014-17). This initially supported seven postgraduate
 researchers (PGR), the majority of whom were from clinical backgrounds. The DTC continues,
 with students supported from a range of funding sources thereby providing a pipeline of clinical
 academics and future leaders in health and social care research.

 The campus-based Digital Health Enterprise Zone (DHEZ, director Breen) was established in
 September 2017 as part of a GBP13,000,000 partnership with the City of Bradford Metropolitan
 District Council with GBP3,500,000 funding from the Department of Business, Energy and
 Industrial Strategy. Leeds City Region Enterprise Partnership has supported DHEZ from the
 outset as the regional hub for digital health innovation and its goal of leading digital innovation
 through collaborative community, business and research engagement for the benefit of
 healthcare now and for future generations. A growing portfolio of companies is working closely
 with DHEZ and Bradford academics (section 4).

 Non-communicable Diseases: mechanisms, therapeutics and pharmaceutical advances

 This group focuses on understanding the mechanisms of non-communicable disease such as
 cancer, diabetes and dementia. By identifying genetic mutations or protein malfunction in models
 of disease or patient samples, novel drug targets are revealed. After target characterisation,
 rational design allows development of novel chemicals which can be tested for therapeutic
 potential in vitro and in vivo on human tissue and model organisms. Ultimately, the aim is to take
 new molecules or improved formulations of drugs through pre-clinical testing and into clinical
 trials to prevent or slow progression of diseases.

 The main goals of the ICT are to develop more effective anti-cancer drugs and biomarkers. A
 key strategy is the generation of novel intellectual property (IP) for small molecules which can
 progress to advanced preclinical evaluation. Working with globally leading academic and
 industrial partners, this IP attracts spin-out company investment which will ultimately be licensed
 to the pharmaceutical industry as novel anti-cancer therapies or diagnostics. The spin-out
 Incanthera has generated significant impact [ICS A3-1] and enabled the reinvestment of share
 and IP income to train the next generation of cancer researchers through the establishment of a
 new DTC within the ICT which recruited three students in 2019, with future cohorts due to start
 after the COVID-19 pandemic. Regional partnerships with clinical oncology at St James Hospital
 in Leeds have enabled pharmacokinetic profile analyses of clinical trial patient samples (section
 3).

 In pharmaceutical advances, the Centre for Pharmaceutical Engineering Science (CPES) uses
 innovative and greener technologies to develop healthcare innovations for improving wellbeing
 and alleviating disease supported by industrial and UKRI funding. This is an interdisciplinary
 centre with collaborators from industry and the Faculty of Engineering and Informatics. Work
 from CPES has led to reduced environmental impact from manufacturing and improvements in
                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 drug and nutritional product formulations which have already made it to market [ICS A3-4].
 Ongoing work is extending their approach and expertise to the development of Type II medical
 devices such as SelfLift an innovative formulation for polyp lifting.

 Skin Sciences

 The Centre for Skin Sciences (CSS) continues to undertake fundamental and applied biological
 research into understanding relevant skin diseases and hair loss, reducing their negative impact
 on appearance and improving wound healing. The current director (Thornton) was appointed in
 2019 after Tobin left to lead the Charles Institute of Dermatology in Ulster. The CSS recognised
 expertise into genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of skin and hair ageing/regeneration, and the
 development of wound healing models for addressing chronic wounds and burns has led to
 significant income, particularly from industry (section 3). The increasing importance of
 skin:microbe interactions impacting on skin health and feminine hygiene has been incorporated
 into the centre portfolio, reflecting market need and taking advantage of interdisciplinary
 expertise within the Centre. The cosmetics and personal care/devices industry and
 dermatological healthcare sector have partnered with the Centre for Skin Sciences (Phillips,
 Aveda, BASF) to develop innovations in skincare which have produced significant impact,
 delivering scientific credibility to industry [ICS A3-2]. Several products are now on the market
 such as DN-Age in Europe (BASF), Invati in China (Aveda) and Promasana in the USA (Aveda).

 Vision Science

 The strategy of the Vision Science research group is to increase understanding of basic
 mechanisms of human vision and their development, with the aim of applying this knowledge to
 identifying disease mechanisms and ameliorating the consequences of visual impairment. For
 example, research focuses on improving the detection of glaucoma through the development of
 new ocular imaging approaches (outputs 5-7) and using the Born in Bradford cohort data, for
 exploring the socioeconomic and genetic contributions to the development of myopia and other
 refractive errors in childhood (output 173). Other work in the area of refractive error has
 quantified the impact that compliance with spectacle wear in school children has upon
 developing literacy and led to the development of the Education Endowment Foundation funded
 “Glasses for Classes” intervention. The knowledge from underpinning research on how
 spectacle prescribing can reduce falls in elderly and vulnerable people has directly translated
 into policy development and changes in optometrist practice in several countries [ICS A3-3].

 Research and impact strategy for this unit of assessment aligns with the University theme of
 “Advanced Health Care” and aims to address WHO Sustainable Development Goal 3 “Ensure
 healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages”. We remain committed to linking
 colleagues with overlapping research interests, regardless of their Faculty or School. This
 approach encourages collaborative working and is supported by targeted investment and
 organisation of regular themed discussion workshops and several vibrant research seminar
 programmes which maximise interdisciplinary research.

 The broad range of research undertaken has one or more of the following strategic research
 aims (RA) on the pathway from basic science to successful clinical intervention with the
 ultimate aim of benefiting patients and public health. Our researchers seek to:

        RA1: understand mechanisms of disease, particularly diseases prevalent in the
        ageing population.

        RA2: identify novel proteins or genes attractive as targets with therapeutic potential.

        RA3: develop healthcare interventions and healthcare technologies which directly
        benefit patients.

 We continue to support the laboratory-based pipeline to translation with a track-record of bench
 discovery to impact (RA1, RA2). For example, the development and production of the novel
                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ICT2388 anticancer drug family has required a sustained effort enabled by strategic investment
 in two scientific Business Development Managers (BDM), supplementing institutional support
 from the central Research and Innovation Services (RaIS) commercialisation team. This enabled
 the Incanthera spin out company to attract industrial investment for successful
 commercialisation, including company flotation on the stock market (2020), creating regional
 jobs and supporting the local economy.

 Collaborations with the White Rose (WR) University consortium and NHS partners via the
 Applied Research Collaboration Yorkshire and Humber (YHARC) are key to fulfilling RA3
 (section 4). An important driver for RA3, reflected in the Institutional Level Environment
 Statement (ILES), has been poor health outcomes in local areas of socio-economic deprivation.
 Therefore, our research is designed to improve the health of the local population, narrowing this
 gap. Our impact strategy engages end users in research co-production. To achieve this, we
 work in partnership with healthcare, industry, patient groups, carers and community
 organisations. This model of working in partnership with stakeholders ensures that our research
 addresses real world problems and results in practical solutions which can easily be
 implemented by our partners (see section 4).

 This strategy has generated successful impact during the current REF period. Researchers
 working alongside health service professionals, patients, service users and carers have
 developed a new person-centred approach to healthcare professional training packages based
 on Dementia Care MappingTM, developed at Bradford. These are now recognised by service
 commissioners and policy makers as Care Quality Commission gold standard for healthcare
 professionals treating dementia patients. The online modules approved by Health Education
 England (HEE) are also available internationally to improve dementia care for health and social
 care providers [ICS A3-5].

 Implementation of the UoA research and impact strategy is supported by regular University
 Research and Knowledge Transfer (R&KT) subcommittee and forum meetings led by the DVC
 Research, Innovation and Engagement and Associate Deans for Research and Knowledge
 Transfer (ADRKTs), with input from the Associate Director of Research and Innovation Services.
 This group prioritises where institutional investment will bring most benefit. FoLS and FoHS
 R&KT subcommittees review how five-year research and impact group strategies as well as
 annual Research Grant Action Plans (RGAP), informed by individual annual researcher Personal
 Research and Innovation Plans (PRIPs), align with the “Advanced Health Care” theme and
 support delivery of our research aims (RA 1-3). Research group directors provide leadership
 with strategic plans underpinned by clear objectives which they regularly revisit to measure
 progress against key performance indicators such as high-quality publications (see outputs),
 successful income generation from a mixed portfolio of funders (section 3) and public
 understanding of research as well as ensuring support for our developing and early-stage
 researchers. Each research group holds regular team meetings to develop new project ideas,
 discuss new data, review current projects and through brainstorming, identify mechanisms to
 develop pathways to impact outside academia as well as sharing good practice in publications
 and grant writing through peer review. This team-based approach generates a dynamic research
 environment that is highly supportive of staff at all levels and a critical part of our staff
 development strategy (section 2).

 Open Research

 Colleagues across A3 ensure that all research findings are made widely available not just to the
 academic and scientific community but also the general public. The importance of open access
 is emphasised during the mentoring of early career staff and PGRs. Staff and PGRs from A3
 actively participate in, and contribute to, central training on how to use the open access
 publication repository and the annual open access week. We are regular recipients of the
 institutional “Publication of the Month” award, that includes GBP500 that can be used for
 accessing media training or developing materials for public dissemination such as videos and
 infographics for use in social media channels. Colleagues across the UOA have made use of

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 support provided for publishing for non-academic audiences and often have pieces on their
 research published by The Conversation that are then picked up by media outlets worldwide. A
 recent example is Breen and her discussions of on the COVID-19 vaccine supply chain
 developments.

 Researchers working with existing large datasets (Born in Bradford, Connected Yorkshire) or
 generating their own, use effective and established mechanisms to ensure these can be shared
 for novel analysis (i.e. outputs 93, 96, 150). This opens data up for analysis by the wider
 research community. We are a leading partner in the ELIXIR-UK consortium
 https://elixiruknode.org that supports the bioscience community by providing training and
 services to help them discover, distribute, analyse, and store data, exchange expertise and
 agree on standard approaches. Poterlowicz is a key member of the management and steering
 committee, being the Training Coordinator (see also section 3).

 High levels of patient, public and carer involvement in all aspects of the research cycle are
 facilitated by the Service Users and Carer Research Group based in FoHS but accessed by
 colleagues across the UoA. This group helps ensure that patients, public and carers that
 contribute to research are trained and adequately supported to participate and appropriately
 remunerated. The Centre for Applied Dementia Studies supports a cohort of people who are
 living with dementia (Experts by Experience, ICS A3-5) to be involved in research, education
 and training. The coordinator of Experts by Experience works with the facilitator of the faculty
 wide group to produce a coordinated response to requests for lay and patient involvement in
 research across the institution.

 An important part of the impact strategy for the UoA includes raising local and regional
 awareness of our research. Members of the public involvement groups described above directly
 communicate the findings of research projects more widely in the local community and lead
 grassroot initiatives; for example, the Bradford Diabetes UK support group is chaired by a
 member of our Service Users and Carer Research Group. The commitment to increase public
 awareness led to establishment of Bradford’s Café Scientifique, part of a national network,
 established in 2018 by UoA members. These monthly public science debates across a wide
 variety of topics are hosted at the National Science and Media Museum and have strengthened
 this local partnership. Audiences have grown in parallel with Bradford Café’s social media
 presence. Because of recent COVID-19 restrictions, sessions have moved online, attracting up
 to 100 participants. Event recordings are made available through University YouTube and
 Bradford Café social media channels. Staff from the UoA regularly join Rattray on his monthly
 Bradford Community Broadcasting (BCB) radio show to discuss their research as well as topical
 science and health matters. BCB has 30,000 listeners every week, and the show reaches a
 diverse audience in the city of Bradford and beyond. Once it is broadcast, it can also be listened
 to on ‘Listen Again’ and is shared widely on social media and has a truly international audience.

 Research Integrity.

 We are committed to delivering open research and innovation that is conducted and delivered
 with honesty and integrity. The University is a signatory to the Universities UK concordat to
 support research integrity, and to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment. A
 working group, chaired by the Associate Dean (R&KT) from FoHS and with a senior member
 from FoLS, ensures that the responsible use of research metrics is reflected within core
 University processes.

 All UoA research adheres to the University’s ethical framework and upholds the Committee on
 Standards in Public Life’s principles of Selflessness, Integrity, Objectivity, Accountability,
 Openness, Honesty, and Leadership. Best practice in authorship procedures is monitored by
 FoHS and FoLS Associate Deans (R&KT) who are responsible for dispute resolution. New staff
 are inducted into the University’s ethics policy which commits to maintaining high ethical
 standards in research. Research involving human participants, their tissue or data (including
 personal information) must be approved by one of the University Research Ethics Panels (with

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 membership and chairs drawn from the UoA) before any research activity can commence. All
 health and social care research is scrutinised by these panels before researchers are allowed to
 apply for external ethical and governance approvals. All projects involving the use of animals
 based in the Biological Services Unit pass University scrutiny through the ethics process, as well
 as obtaining approval from the Home Office under the Animal (Scientific Procedures) Act.
 Researchers working with patients have accelerated access to obtaining an NHS ‘research
 passport’ through the Integrated Research Application Form, written into Wolfson CAHR
 governance. All undergraduate and postgraduate student projects which involve primary
 research are required to follow the same process.

 Ethical Tissue (ET) biobank staff are responsible for ensuring informed consent of patients and
 volunteers, co-ordinating ethical approval for clinical studies and the supply of human tissue and
 cells to researchers. This extends beyond UoA A3, widely across the University and for external
 researchers regionally, nationally and internationally. In addition to its own website, our biobank
 is registered on the UKCRC Tissue Directory and Co-ordination Centre, a searchable database
 which ensures all UK researchers can access ethically sourced and stored human tissue.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 We combine recruitment and investment in the highest quality researchers with nurturing and
 developing our own talent to develop a pipeline of research leaders, enabled by continued
 support for local, regional, national and international research network development. We appoint
 staff either with excellent research track records, or with clear evidence of potential as future
 research leaders, and with evidence that an individual’s research interests align with our
 research strategy (section 1) and strengthen the relevant research group. Appointments with
 complementary expertise to maintain or deepen critical mass (at least five FTE per sub-
 grouping) enables teams led by UoA staff to submit substantial applications to funders e.g.
 National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) and UKRI. A key part of the staffing strategy during
 this REF period has been the creation and capitalisation of research potential. We have
 appointed early career academics (ECRs) and senior research fellows across all research
 groupings (12 staff). In several areas new senior appointments have also been made: Professor
 of Digital Innovations in Healthcare (Randell) and Professor in Healthcare Quality and Patient
 Safety (Gardner), Reader in Physical Activity and Healthy Childhood (Daly-Smith). In October
 2020 (after the REF census date) we appointed Professor Siobhan Reilly as the new Director of
 the Centre for Applied Dementia Studies and Wolfson CAHR Lead for Healthy Aging, in
 anticipation of the previous director’s retirement (Downs) in December 2020.

 Staff Support and Development

 Research group leads and mentors work with newly-appointed staff developing their early
 applications for external funders. New appointments team up with an experienced PGR
 supervisor to produce peer reviewed and viable PGR projects to recruit sponsored postgraduate
 researchers, building their research teams. Personal Research and Innovation Plans are
 formally reviewed annually, initially as part of probation then through continual performance
 development review process.

 We subscribe to, and encourage all researchers to access, the Vitae “Researcher Development
 Framework Planner” a career development tool supporting all levels of career development and
 progression. The Bradford Academic career development framework includes a regrade
 pathway (promotion to associate and full professor) based on evidence of significant research
 achievements. Access to external research funding dedicated to researchers in their early years
 at an academic post through, for example, the Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard
 scheme (Helfer) has brought beneficial external research mentoring, including training relevant
 to impact and communication of research to non-scientific audiences.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The University Research Development Fund (RDF) includes a scheme aimed at ECRs via open
 competition, with opportunities for applications twice per year to provide funding for pilot studies.
 This inclusive approach has contributed to the success of follow-on funding bids to NIHR, UKRI
 and charities. Successful staff development leading to research fellows transitioning to
 independent academics and succeeding in their first grant applications as Principal Investigators
 continues (Mardaryev, MRC, GPB 544,992, 2016, 41 months). Institutional, and faculty (FoLS,
 FoHS) investment has supported training and networking events to engage academic staff
 across their career journey: VC Interdisciplinary Research Seminars; FoLS Annual Research
 Open Day and FoHS Scholarship and Research Wednesdays.

 To support development, mentoring is in place for newly-appointed staff who in addition to their
 assigned line manager are given a separate member of staff to act as a research and career
 mentor. In UoA A3 this system of mentoring has been expanded during the current REF period
 to all staff that request it or when specific development needs are identified. Staff in all stages of
 their research career in the UoA have reported benefits of this support, especially where
 research interests may have developed a new direction or to build confidence and research
 skills after a practice focused career. Mentoring and other staff training is provided by the
 University’s People & Organisational Development Directorate via, online e-learning resources
 short courses and year-long development programmes. Staff from the UoA access these as well
 as external resources, such as the women only Advance HE Aurora mentoring scheme.

 Grant writing skills workshops designed to develop proposals are facilitated centrally and have
 been supplemented in the UoA by engaging the expertise of UKRI and charity grant panel
 members for specific funders (see section 3) to deliver mini grant panel style workshops,
 enabling development of grant writing skills. Internal peer review is mandatory before a funding
 application is submitted, thereby providing timely feedback to researchers on project quality.
 This is undertaken by two appropriate and experienced colleagues, with the aim of strengthening
 the proposal and sharing good practice.

 An ECR Forum was established across FoLS (2017) and then FoHS (2020) to enhance
 networking, share information on opportunities and increase peer support for researchers.
 Membership includes early career academics, research fellows and post-doctoral researchers,
 with sessions providing tailored advice on developing different types of funding bids
 (grants/knowledge transfer partnerships/innovate UK/NIHR) and opportunities for exchange
 funding e.g. Erasmus+ (now Turing) or World Technology Universities Network. The Forum
 signposts ECRs to institutional support processes and external development opportunities such
 as those provided by the Yorkshire and Humber Research Design Services. Central funding has
 supported focused writing sessions (“Shut up & write”, 3-day writing retreats to support grant and
 output development, and Wolfson CAHR workshops) that benefit staff and PGRs across the
 UoA. Workshops are available for those less experienced or confident in publishing, enabling
 development of an original article from data already generated or production of a review under
 guidance of a senior colleague. All opportunities are regularly advertised and made available to
 staff who submit a strong case for support and have been found to be particularly valuable for
 those returning from maternity/paternity leave.

 External funding has enabled staff to take international sabbaticals including Germany (Bloj),
 Australia (Elliott) and Canada (Helfer). Agreed periods of teaching relief are more common;
 either reduced responsibility for a semester or occasionally for longer periods. This is negotiated
 for staff following completion of a substantive administrative role or when returning from family
 leave, successfully enabling recipients to reinvigorate their research.

 Research Students

 For most PGR projects in the UoA, University-trained supervisory teams develop a short
 proposal and the projects are widely advertised through the University website, FindaPhD and
 specialist publications (e.g., Optometry Today to attract practising professional applicants.
 Applicants with their own research ideas approach the admissions team or academics directly,

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 where dialogue is encouraged. Research proposals submitted by applicants are considered and
 may be adapted to meet candidate and supervisory team requirements. Interview panels, by
 video conferencing for international applicants, identify specific training needs at the point of
 recruitment, expediting any institutional support required. This strategy has also increased
 transparency as feedback is made available to all applicants where a place cannot be offered.

 During REF2021, recruitment of sponsored international PGRs has continued to be successful
 and several initiatives have been introduced to attract UK/EU PhD students. Notably the UoA
 has coordinated two EU-funded International Training Networks (ITNs) and joined the White
 Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) (sections 3 and 4).

 In Vision Sciences, the College of Optometrists has provided competitive scholarships to attract
 clinically qualified optometrists to research careers, boosting clinical research capacity in a
 specialty where recruiting research focussed academics is challenging. Faculty-funded
 competitive scholarships have also been offered with several awarded to supervisory teams in
 the UoA. One of these was critical to development of the ISCOMAT clinical trial and the
 achievement of centre status for the Patient Safety Translational Research Centre (section 4). A
 second graduate was retained as a postdoctoral fellow (BBSRC funded for three years), before
 successfully taking up an academic post elsewhere, while the third moved to clinical psoriasis
 research in Leeds, subsequently obtaining a fellowship.

 The Dementia DTC within the Centre for Applied Dementia studies focussed on transitions in
 dementia and was one of only eight DTCs funded by the Alzheimers’s Society across England
 from 2014. Seven PGRs were recruited, and to date four have completed and are continuing
 careers in clinical research, academia and policy (section 1). A successful model to increase
 PGR numbers has been developed in applied health research, recruiting clinical staff onto
 funded scholarships, developing their writing skills to apply for and obtain personal fellowship
 funding from NIHR. The industrial links of staff in the Centre for Skin Sciences (Thornton,
 Mardaryev, Fessing) have secured financial support for PGR scholarships, including a CASE
 award (Aveda, Amway, Merck).

 Each PGR is supervised by a team of at least two academics, each of whom has
 complementary expertise relevant to the project. Expertise from clinicians in BIHR is increasingly
 incorporated in the team to ensure clinical impact. All candidates are allocated a mentor from
 outside the supervisory team for informal meetings and discussions to help navigate the PGR
 journey or provide career advice. Some PGRs undertake industrial placements, facilitating a
 progression to careers in industry if that is sought.

 PhD supervisory training is mandatory, with less experienced supervisors paired with a more
 experienced colleague and refresher courses for all supervisors every three years. Supervisors
 further develop their supervisory skills using the UK Council for Graduate Education Good
 Supervisory Practice Framework toolkit and are encouraged to develop their reflective practice
 to provide evidence and apply for the national Supervisor recognition programme. Regular “good
 practice” workshops are embedded in the research calendar to encourage applications. Our
 excellence in research supervision has been externally acknowledged (see end of section 4).

 PGRs across the University benefit from the institutional PGR Framework. UoA Faculty Directors
 of PGR enable discipline-specific induction and training opportunities to supplement institutional
 PGR framework training options, ensuring an excellent experience throughout the PGR journey.
 Good practice in the UoA includes formal submission of a critical review of the literature within
 six months of registration, and early training needs analysis identifies skills gaps which can be
 addressed either by attendance at postgraduate taught sessions or through external training
 provision. Alongside discipline specific training, peer assisted learning schemes offer a support
 mechanism, helping to avoid potential feelings of isolation, a nationally recognised concern for
 PGRs.

 In the UoA, discipline-level action plans are produced jointly with PGR representatives to
 respond to feedback obtained and continuously develop and enhance the PGR experience.
                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Annual PGR scientific conferences, established in 2014, have expanded and now include
 parallel, discipline-specific sessions, following national and international conference models.
 The conference is developed by a PGR-led organising committee and has successfully secured
 external sponsorship, matched by internal funding. Ownership of the PGR conference by these
 earliest career researchers has produced a format which meets the PGR needs and has
 enabled the development of transferable skills. Important project management skills include
 control over utilisation of the funding earned and has enabled prizes to be awarded for the best
 abstracts and presentations. The conference complements PGRs presenting their work at group
 level and the mandatory requirement to present in relevant weekly or monthly research seminar
 programmes to develop key communication and organisational skills. PGRs can access all
 relevant staff training and undertake training as graduate teaching assistants where that benefits
 their career development plans.

 Equality Diversity and Inclusion

 The University celebrates the diversity of its staff and students and in 2020 we were recognised
 by The Times and Sunday Times as the University of the Year for Social Inclusion. In UoA A3
 we endeavour to ensure that protected characteristics have no impact on opportunities for
 career progression and that openness and transparency means appropriate support is in place
 to address the diverse set of staff needs at all points in their careers. Commitment to Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in research begins with mandatory online training for all staff in the
 UoA. EDI teams in FoHS and FoLS are working to achieve continuous improvement based on
 feedback obtained from regular local staff questionnaires. This approach enabled successful
 achievement of Athena Swan (AS) bronze awards by FoHS and Schools in FoLS containing
 UoA A3 researchers. Helfer (2016-2020) chaired the committee for the School that received our
 first AS award in 2018. Recent staff questionnaires provide evidence of progress against Athena
 Swan action plans. The latest questionnaire (July 2020) included questions to identify how all
 staff, including researchers, had been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and contained a
 section designed to specifically collect views of ECRs to inform planning for the Researcher
 Development Concordat action plan.

 There are five institutional staff/student networks supporting underrepresented groups (gender,
 race, LGBT+, disability and neurodivergence). These groups all contain members of UoA A3
 staff and contribute to policy and decision making, ensuring we embrace EDI agendas important
 to all our staff and PGRs. The Equality and Diversity Faculty and University committees have
 strong membership representation from within UoA A3 research groupings.

 Recruitment panels have been trained in unconscious bias, equality and diversity, with panels
 incorporating male and female representation and including BAME membership whenever
 possible. Appointments to internal research leadership roles adhere to the same principles as
 external appointments, including transparent application processes and panel interviews. We
 are working to address the predominance of male researchers in non-communicable diseases
 and vision science as well as the lack of male staff in FoHS through our recruitment strategy as
 part of Athena Swan action plans.

 Across the University, recruitment panels have been trained in unconscious bias, equality and
 diversity, with panels incorporating male and female representation and including BAME
 membership whenever possible. Appointments to internal research leadership roles adhere to
 the same principles as external appointments, including transparent application processes and
 panel interviews. We are working to address the predominance of male researchers in non-
 communicable diseases and vision science as well as the lack of male staff in FoHS through our
 recruitment strategy as part of AS action plans.

 Flexible working is available to staff. Compressed hours, temporary or more extended reductions
 in FTE, and opportunities to work from home are regularly considered and approved by line
 managers, demonstrating commitment to EDI in our workforce. For staff returning from parental


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 leave, efforts are made to minimise teaching responsibilities in the first semester following return
 to work, maximising opportunities to re-establish research.

 Our regular research seminar programmes offer opportunities for internal researchers to present
 and enable networking and by inviting external speakers with complementary expertise to our
 researchers we strengthen collaborations. In response to the predominance of men among
 senior researchers in some areas of the UoA, an AS programme of research seminars from
 female role models external to the institution was launched in 2018. These are widely publicised
 across the institution and have included workshops facilitated by external female professors and
 experts in gender equality to discuss the progress and development of female staff in science
 careers. These are open to all staff and ECRs including PGRs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income Generating Strategies

 A key objective of all group plans is to obtain external awards from a range of funders to ensure
 research group sustainability. Industrial partnerships, with support from our dedicated BDMs,
 have helped secure matched funding from agencies such as Innovate UK or consortia with
 access to regional development funding (Yorkshire Innovation Funding, Access Innovation,
 Translate, GrowMedTech). Support from the central IP specialist team in RaIS secures
 appropriate institutional benefits from these partnerships that can be reinvested in research. UoA
 research leads, supported by University grants officers with discipline-specific expertise,
 regularly run sandpit events targeted towards funder priorities or external stakeholder needs
 (industry, NHS, local government). These are widely advertised using Wolfson CAHR, Faculty
 and University-wide research briefings to ensure UoA staff across different research groups
 participate along with researchers from other disciplines, including chemists, engineers,
 computer scientists, archaeologists and social scientists with complementary research interests
 relevant to health. This results in the formation of bespoke project-focused teams with the
 expertise to develop high quality funding bids.

 The introduction of annual Personal Research and Innovation Plans as well as Research Grant
 Action Plans for groups has enhanced personal and group income planning, while institutional
 investment in, and implementation of, the automated Research Information System tracks
 development of all external funder applications (contracts, KT and research grants) enabling
 Associate Deans (R&KT) and research group leads to monitor and support funding bid
 development.

 Future Income Generating Strategies 2021-27

 All UoA staff with significant responsibility for research are expected to develop and submit
 external grants bids annually, within their university research workload allowance. In UoA A3 we
 provide additional support for bid development by holding mock peer review panels and are
 growing our internal directory of grant panel expertise by encouraging staff to nominate
 themselves for external peer review roles (UKRI, NIHR, charities and intentionally) as
 appropriate to their expertise and career stage (section 4). This external reviewing experience is
 increasing the quality of internal peer review. These strategies are anticipated to improve bid
 quality, enhance effective responses to reviewers’ comments, and increase funder success
 rates.

 Development of Income Supporting Research and Impact

 Levels of UKRI income (BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC) are in the same range as income from charity
 bids across the REF2021 period, with the combined total accounting for somewhat less than half
 the overall research funding reported (the rest being industrial). Notable successes have been
 obtained from BBSRC to Vision Science examining mechanisms involved in motion processing
 in the brain (Bloj GBP313,037; 2017; 36 months) and a project continuing from 2013
 investigating contributions vision makes to the potential for elite performance in professional
                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 sport (Barrett). EPSRC funding awarded just prior to this REF period (Paradkar, GBP495,364;
 2012; 40 months) has been critical to impact development (ICS A3-4). Skin science obtained
 MRC funding to investigate skin regenerative mechanisms in the context of wound healing
 (GBP494,000; 2015; 36 months) and ageing (GBP544,992; 2016; 43 months), research
 underpinning the impact reflected in ICS A3-2. Transition of fundamental research to early
 translational science to generating future impact has been supported by MRC Confidence in
 Concept funding (Mardaryev, GBP56,000; 2018; 12 months). This scheme has developed
 interdisciplinary collaborations between non-communicable disease, skin and polymer materials
 scientists enabling feasibility studies and attracting matched industrial funding to expedite future
 translation (MRC/Bradford Confidence in Concept 2019, GBP149,400, 2020, 36 months).

 Se Several staff in the UoA meet the needs of the market in developing manufacturing solutions
 and formulation advances for drug or nutrient supplements attracting significant funding from
 both national (Innovate UK GBP361,718; 2015; 24 months and 2017; 18 months) and regional
 development funding such as Yorkshire Innovation Funding (YIF) (GBP251,044; awarded in
 2013; 24 months). Research undertaken using this funding also delivered impact [ICS A3-4]
 attracting a Bionow award (section 4). For some groups within the UoA, industrial funding
 (UK/EU/non-EU industry/commerce and public corporations) has been a steady and significant
 source of income, bringing in over the REF period almost GBP5,000,000, notably from the Estee
 Lauder/Aveda corporation (GBP843,873) (ICS A3-2).

 UoA applied health researchers have benefitted from steady growth in competitive awards. This
 reflects the return on strategic investment including that in senior appointments (Sections 1, 2)
 with awards already generating impact (section 4). NIHR has funded clinical interventions,
 particularly to reduce avoidable hospital admissions from nursing homes (Downs GBP1,067,474,
 2015; 39 months), in safe use of medicines (GBP3,000,000; 2017; 60 months), to prevent falls in
 a hospital setting (Randell, GPB492,662; 2020; 24 months) and the ongoing, multicentre
 randomised clinical trial (RCT) ISCOMAT (GBP2,104,057; 2016, 68 months). In dementia, NIHR
 Health Technology Assessment funded an RCT to investigate clinical and cost effectiveness of
 intervention to promote independence and self-management in people with mild dementia
 (Oyebode GBP267,247; 2016; 42 months). We are a key partner in the large Big Lottery-funded
 Better Start Bradford Innovation hub (Small, GBP309,280, 2015; 60 months) (section 4).

 UK charity remains a significant income source and strategically has been used to pilot
 interventions which then may be scaled-up and become eligible for NIHR funding including
 collaborations with BIHR (GBP250,000; 2016; 22 months). Yorkshire Cancer Research has
 supported applied health research (Blenkinsopp co-applicant, GBP202,393 to Bradford, total
 GBP1,369,806; Rattray GBP191,412; 2017; 16 months) and cancer therapeutics (ICT,
 GBP1,000,000; 2014; 60 months), the Alzheimer’s Society support for the DTC (section 2;
 GBP515,000; 2015; 36 months) and studies to improve dementia care (Parveen GBP224,838;
 2015; 39 months; Lord New Interventions for Independence in Dementia Study (NIDUS)
 GBP318,180; 2017; 60 months). Over 20 cancer charity awards have been made, notably
 Breast Cancer Now (GBP322,840)

 Skin and Vision Sciences groups obtained EU funding to address global challenges in
 international cross-sectional teams, the former led a Framework 7 Initial Training Network
 (CLaSSiC; EUR795,031; 2013; 48 months) and the latter (DyViTo; EUR2,834,980; 2017; 48
 months), a Horizon2020 Innovative Training Network (see section 4). This successful trend
 continues with Poterlowicz securing GBP687,857 (MRC/UKRI, 2021, 24 months) for an ELIXIR-
 UK FAIR Data Stewardship Training Project designed to address the increasing demand in
 management of large-scale data (see section 4).

 Infrastructure Investment & Facilities

 Significant research infrastructure investment has been made throughout the period. The largest
 of these has built the partnership with the University of Leeds colleagues and BTHFT through
 the Wolfson CAHR investment. The impacts generated so far from this growing partnership are

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 expanded on in section 4. Additional central investment which has been provided to the UoA
 includes GBP120,000 from the UKRI World Class Laboratories Fund to upgrade eye-tracking
 facilities for Vision Science, and coating and production facilities for drug manufacture.

 Further infrastructure investment has refurbished Phoenix South West building to develop DHEZ
 as the regional hub for digital health innovation and this has increased patient access through
 new optometry and physiotherapy clinics, both open to the general public, allowing research
 studies involving patients and more recently supporting delivery of specialised NHS
 ophthalmology clinics and COVID-19 vaccination trials. Within this environment, vision sciences
 researchers (including optometrists in training) and their subjects have access to excellent
 research facilities within key research labs (i.e. electrophysiology, transcranial magnetic
 stimulation, ocular imaging) which provide the required infrastructure. A fully enabled
 phlebotomy suite permits blood sampling from consented volunteers and patients and delivers
 phlebotomy training courses to develop researcher skills. Recently, in partnership with the
 BTHFT, the site hosted the Novovax phase 3 COVID-19 vaccine trial.

 Housing clinical patient facing services in the refurbished DHEZ building has considerably
 strengthened patient, service users and carer research involvement and is an attractive
 proposition for industrial partners who observe the benefits of end user involvement in the
 development and testing of prototype innovative healthcare products. SMEs work with our
 researchers to expedite development of innovative health care technology enabling
 improvements in clinician:clinician and clinician:patient research as well as pioneering research
 supporting patient self-management of chronic illness. The University’s commitment to the
 transformational potential of digital health research has been confirmed by the recent
 appointment (2020) of Breen as the Director of DHEZ and Randell as Professor of Digital
 Innovations in Healthcare.

 Medicinal chemists and biologists working on non-communicable diseases, including cancer and
 pharmaceutics researchers, regularly access the excellent centralised Analytical Centre (AC)
 facilities, that bring together Bradford’s investment in analytical infrastructure for use in
 laboratory research. Drug repurposing, which significantly speeds up time required before
 licensing in the clinic, also benefits from access to the following facilities and may have wider
 applications in a range of diseases, as has been observed recently for COVID-19. The excellent
 facilities include Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (Bruker 400 and 600 MHz spectrometers
 equipped with multinuclear and dedicated diffusion probes), vibrational spectroscopy (Renishaw
 Raman microscopy and Agilent FTIR microscopy), chromatography and mass spectrometry
 (Waters U/HPLC with single/triple quadrupole mass spectrometry, Agilent GC and GCMS
 systems and a Thermo Orbitrap LTQ for high resolution/accurate mass work), and X-ray
 diffraction (Bruker X8 single crystal and D8 powder systems). UoA researchers also make
 extensive use of the bioimaging facilities including electron, fluorescent and confocal microscopy
 (FEI Quanta 400 Environmental SEM with Oxford Xplore EDS, Jeol 1200 TEM, Zeiss LSM510
 and Nikon TE2000 confocal fluorescence Microscopes) used to monitor development of tumours
 in pre-clinical models and their response to anti-cancer drugs.

 Access is also available to the microscopy infrastructure used by colleagues in Engineering, in
 particular the FEI Tecnai T20 SEM with EDS. The thermal analysis suite (TA Instruments
 Q2000/5000 DSC and TGA systems, nanoDSC for solution studies and Zeiss Hot Stage
 Microscope Particles Characterisation (Sympatec HELOS/ASPIROS and Malvern Zetasizer
 NanoZS) is used in both cancer therapeutics and pharmaceutical advances research.
 Importantly there is also access to an onsite proteomics facility (Thermo Orbitrap Fusion with
 nano-HPLC and Bruker Ultraflex MALDI-TOF), which links to data processing in the High
 Performance Computing (HPC) facility enabling the production and interrogation of large
 datasets.

 Additional investment in the development of the Good Clinical Laboratory Practice (GCLP)
 facilities include a top of the range a Xevo TQ-XS Mass Spectrometer combined with UPLC
 enabling ultra-sensitive site analysis of patient samples from phase I and II clinical trials. This

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 has expedited our anti-cancer therapeutic drug development pathway by fulfilling the additional
 regulatory requirements and allowing for in house development of new therapeutic compounds.

 The appointment of bioinformatician researchers triggered institutional investment in the HPC
 facility, which is critical for proteomics research in the UoA. It provides capacity for the analysis
 of multiple large data sets and is extensively used by skin sciences and staff involved infectious
 disease epidemiology. Technical support is provided through a combination of institutional
 investment and external funder project support. The technical manager (appointed 2020)
 supports the facility and works with colleagues to develop income generating strategies and
 promote open research (section 1).

 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure

 Continued investment in technical support staff enables the operation, maintenance and training
 in use of specialised equipment described above. In ICT (4FTE) and the Analytical Centre
 (2.6FTE), technical experts run the high specification apparatus producing key data. One FTE
 senior scientific officer with expertise in Skin Sciences is supported by 2FTE technical staff to
 generate data to fulfil industrial contracts. The Ethical Tissue biobank has a dedicated senior
 technician (1FTE) undertaking sample processing to meet researcher needs and a research
 nurse (0.5FTE) responsible for volunteer consent, blood sample collection, training and
 supervision in the phlebotomy suite (part of DHEZ) and providing anonymised clinical
 information for publication. The biobank team is fully involved in the ethical approval process
 required to obtain clinical tissue specimens. Ethical review panels (section 2) meet regularly,
 ensuring that our researchers and those external to the University can apply for ethical approval
 through the streamlined panel approval process to access tissue or cellular samples from
 volunteers and consented patients in return for minimal sample recovery and processing
 charges. Development of in vitro cancer cell models from clinical tumour samples, identification
 of specific pathological histological and molecular signatures within a wide range of cancers for
 future study and analysis of patient samples from clinical trials have been vital in the progress
 made in development of anti-cancer drugs developed by the ICT research team.

 The Biological Services Unit (BSU) is run and supported by three fulltime specialised technical
 staff including a senior specialist. The unit houses facilities for rodent models of disease,
 including genetically modified mice for mechanistic studies and equipment for surgical
 interventions alongside behavioural analysis. Researchers in the UoA experimentally identify
 mechanisms important in neurodegeneration, cardiovascular disease, inflammation and
 metabolic disorders. Therapeutics and skin science researchers share both cell-based and in
 vivo disease models. BSU also supports pre-clinical in vivo research, mandatory in development
 of new drugs, establishing toxicity quotients and investigating potential side effects in a
 mammalian model prior to clinical trials.

 To support staff focused on mechanisms underpinning diseases of increasing prevalence in
 ageing populations, FoLS invested in a pre-clinical model of healthy ageing, the naked mole rat
 (NaMoRa), in 2017. These long-lived mammals are highly resistant to disease, providing an
 excellent model of healthy ageing. This is one of only three UK colonies and BSU technical
 support investment and training has enabled the successful establishment of two breeding
 colonies, a source of future income to support sustainability of the facility. Since 2018 an active
 group of researchers from the non-communicable diseases group meets regularly to develop
 collaborations and, after Home Office regulatory requirements are met, preliminary data is now
 being collected for incorporation into external funding bids aimed at understanding how
 resistance to disease is relevant in humans. FoLS financial support for housing and colony
 maintenance will continue until at least 2023, by which time external funding will make the
 colony sustainable. To support development of ECR research or for staff pilot projects with
 potential to generate impact, in kind usage of the AC, access to ethical tissue samples or the in
 vivo NaMoRa colony without cost recovery is supported on a case-by-case basis.

 Public involvement groups supported by FoHS are described in section 1.

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations and partnerships

 Wolfson CAHR has developed and expanded strategic partnerships with BIHR, regional NHS
 Foundation Trusts and the University of Leeds. Continued engagement is assured through staff
 secondments (Daly-Smith, see below), joint PhD studentships and honorary appointments for
 NHS staff (i.e. Wright – BIHR and Wolfson CAHR director, founder of Born in Bradford (BiB) –
 and McEachan, Director of BiB; Twelves, Leeds oncology linked to ICT; Saralaya, director of the
 Bradford NIHR Patient Recruitment Centre for Clinical Trials). The NIHR YHPSTRC led by the
 University of Leeds is managed by Fylan who has a joint University of Bradford and BIHR
 appointment. Fylan’s University of Bradford appointment ensures continuity of the momentum
 developed by Prof Alison Blenkinsopp, OBE, particularly the added value of specialist
 pharmacists in ensuring safe prescribing and deprescribing at transitions between hospital and
 community. The recruitment of Gardner provides succession for Blenkinsop who retired in 2019,
 strengthening the research team working on safeguarding and enhancing patient safety within
 applied health research. Impact is being generated through NIHR-funded RCTs including
 ISCOMAT, the multi-centre clinical trial to improve safety of medicine prescribing at transitions of
 care for heart failure patients (2016-2021) (section 3).

 Suspension of patient recruitment due to COVID-19 enabled ISCOMAT and NIDUS to focus on
 the impact of changes in NHS services for trial participants using online strategies and online
 intervention delivery, providing essential information relevant to the future provision of digital
 healthcare. Current NIHR projects include the use of artificial intelligence to monitor patient
 safety and care quality across a complex hospital site from a single operations centre and quality
 dashboards to improve feedback of data from multiple audits for service improvement (Randell).
 Access through DHEZ to SME business partners such as Serenity Care, Survivors West
 Yorkshire and Equality for All ensures innovative digital approaches which benefit patient care
 and improved services can be implemented in multiple NHS settings. Wolfson CAHR has
 enhanced access for vision scientists and bioinformaticians to major existing projects, such as
 Born in Bradford (i.e output 173) and Connected Yorkshire, and its collaborative environment
 facilitates development of interventions to improve population health and advance health policy
 from evidence-based research.

 Daly-Smith was seconded to BTHFT as JU:MP research director to lead the evidence-based
 development and evaluation of the Sport England funded (GBP2,900,000, 2019, 36 months)
 whole-systems programme to improve physical activity among children and young people. This
 programme is a significant component within the Sport England portfolio and is currently
 supporting 25 localities across the UK to create systems change for physical activity in schools
 (output 28).

 Bioinformatics technology expertise has enabled partnership with industry to produce bespoke
 artificial intelligence and machine learning packages meeting specific needs for analysis of large
 datasets. Poterlowicz has been appointed Training Co-ordinator of a European network of
 bioinformatics professionals (ELIXIR-UK). This organisation delivers training to early career
 researchers (ECRs) including one event so far in Bradford (2019), upskilling UK ECRs and
 PGRs.

 The Centre for Skin Sciences hosts the Plastic Surgery and Burns Unit, founded by Professor
 David Sharpe following the fire disaster at the Bradford City football club in 1985. The football
 club continues to give financial support to post graduate research training of clinical registrars in
 plastic surgery (MPhil/PhD) developing advances in burns and wound healing. The club
 supports fundraising activities in the Bradford City region, raising awareness and disseminating
 the benefits of research in the local community.

 Collaborative partnerships across the UoA have been supported by institutional International
 Development Funding for PGRs to investigate diseases prevalent in low- and middle-income
 countries. Work with the Institute of Ophthalmology (University College London) and LV Prasad
                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Eye Institutes, India, capitalises on the fact that enzymes highly expressed in cancer are also
 important in eye disease, providing an opportunity for to optimise compounds into eye drops to
 relieve ocular auto-immune disease and diabetic retinopathy (Pors). Graham is working with
 Surawahardy Medical College, Bangladesh to develop digital solutions which reduce poor
 pregnancy and foetal outcomes in gestational diabetes. Oyebode is working with China Medical
 University to investigate Chinese population challenges in caring for elderly relatives.

 Through participation in the GrowMedTech consortium (and its predecessor Translate) UoA A3
 researchers have secured proof of concept funding and commercialisation support to develop
 innovative medical devices, establish industrial partnerships and license patents (Cooper,
 Nasim, Isreb, Kantamneni, Paradkar). These activities are strongly encouraged in the UoA and
 the central RaIS team provide regular advice and assistance to pair researchers with appropriate
 industrial partners. Competitive funding made available by the University has enabled
 interdisciplinary sandpits led by colleagues in the UoA on wound healing, neurodegeneration,
 and antimicrobial resistance. Industrial investment is often initiated via Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships, including skin sciences partnership with InnoVen and Labskin, researching
 infection control and improvements in chronic wound care (Thornton, Elias-Gomez) and
 successful partnerships with AstraZeneca, Health Innovations, and Natures Laboratory.

 Four Innovate UK ICURe (Innovation to Commercialisation of University Research) awards to
 Paradkar, are currently at different stages of commercialisation. These projects are led by ECRs
 demonstrating the skills that are fostered to ensure research sustainability which can be
 translated into the commercial world for which Paradkar has been nationally recognised (see
 below). Partnerships have also been formed with global companies keen to research skin ageing
 mechanisms (Thornton-Walgreens Boots Alliance, Aveda). These partnerships have improved
 existing products and developed new ones which can legitimately advertise clinically proven
 benefits to the skin [ICS A3-2].

 The EU ITNs mentioned in section 3 train and develop scientists in cross-sectional settings such
 as industry and museums, providing access to career pathways outside academia. CLaSSiC
 recruited interdisciplinary EU junior research fellows for 36 months, who split their time equally
 between industry (Philips, Eindhoven) and academic research. All three fellows obtained PhDs
 and have continued their careers either in companies or academia. DyVito involves researchers
 and innovators from nine European universities (Bilkent, Turkey; Delft, Netherlands; Justis Leibig
 and Ulm, Germany; and Zaragoza, Spain as well as Cambridge, Southampton, Newcastle and
 Bradford), two museums (National Gallery and National Science & Media Museum) and four
 companies (Ledmotive, Arup, Schelnk, and Adobe) across Europe that have together developed
 an innovative research and training plan that will examine visual and haptic perception,
 neuroimaging, modelling, material rendering and lighting design.

 Wider impactful contributions to the community and society

 Colleagues in the UoA demonstrate how the research and innovation and the business and
 community engagement strategies in ILES come together through longitudinal cohort studies of
 the local population, including continuing analyses of the health of the BiB cohort (see outputs
 105, 116, 118, 172, 173). The governance, managed by BIHR and our researchers (Small, Daly-
 Smith), has enabled the development and launch of focused research studies by researchers
 from multiple institutions, all of which aim to benefit the local multi-ethnic population. New
 studies have been derived from original observations using both the comprehensive dataset and
 the biological samples collected during the study. Recognition that there are increased risk
 factors for recessive genetic disorders where marriage takes place between blood relatives has
 enabled targeted education and behavioural interventions to inform the public better on the
 specifics of risk. Resource implications and patterns of need for additional support within the BiB
 communities have also been identified which will inform commissioning decisions and healthcare
 workforce practice. The continued participation of both Caucasian and South Asian families in
 the study from its inception has fostered an increased sense of community across Bradford.
 Evidence is starting to emerge of the benefits of research penetrating more widely into close knit

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 communities which are recognised as underrepresented populations in research studies.
 Pregnant women and young children in Bradford’s areas of socioeconomic deprivation have
 benefitted from support provided by the National Lottery funded “Better Start Bradford”.

 The Goal-oriented Rehabilitation in Early Alzheimers Trial (GREAT) has international reach in
 improving post diagnostic support and in enabling self-management for these patients. The
 benefits that can result from strategies to enhance dementia self-management both produce
 improvements in patient care within care homes and in turn improve the experience of people
 living with dementia (Oyebode, output 68). IDEAL is a longitudinal cohort study that follows a
 group of people living with dementia and their family carers to explore the group’s experiences
 over time and establish what social and psychological factors support or hinder the ability of
 people and their families to live well with dementia (Quinn, outputs 39 and 175). The NIDUS
 project is developing and testing evidence-based training and support programmes to help
 family (NIDUS-family) and paid home carers (NIDUS-professional) to provide high quality care to
 people living with dementia while remaining at home (Lord).

 Engagement with local communities and the general public

 We have developed an increasing focus on the importance of the University in supporting the
 local community and region and colleagues from UoA A3 are often leading this type of initiative,
 i.e. Rattray recent appointment as director of research for Bradford’s City of Culture 2025 bid.

 Researchers in the UoA are carrying out an increasing number of studies where patient benefit
 defined by the patient voice is the driving force behind the development of the project. The public
 involvement groups, described in section 1, play a dual role in both ensuring that publicly-funded
 health research is accountable and transparent to patients and the general public, and providing
 direct impact on the community. Diabetes research is of particular concern in the local BAME
 population. Researchers with expertise in this area (e.g. Graham) engage regularly with the local
 Diabetes UK-sponsored Diabetes Support Group, enabling the development of projects
 prioritised by individuals living with diabetes and ensuring the patient perspective is highlighted
 from study inception and development to proposal submission to the funder. Cooper has been
 instrumental in establishing the Northern Maternity Stream research network with academics,
 and colleagues working across the NHS, voluntary and local government alongside immigrant
 groups to improve the outcomes and experience of maternity care for migrant women.

 The involvement of people affected by dementia, their families, health care professionals and
 volunteers is vital in all the work of the Centre for Applied Dementia Studies. Their Experts by
 Experience group works together with academics in research, education and training projects
 and hold regular events at the University and in the community. Experts by Experience includes
 people whose lives have been touched by dementia but whose voices are less often heard,
 including women, people over 80, members of the black, Asian and Eastern European
 communities, those who live in care homes, and members of LGBT groups.

 Dissemination of research to the public is facilitated by community relationships. One example is
 the strong relationship with the National Science & Media Museum which has included partner
 status in bids (DyViTo) and enabled researchers to raise public awareness in Bradford Science
 Festivals and devise engaging activities for families during half term holidays such as the four
 day “Operation Owch” medical themed event in 2019 (Graham, Helfer, Rattray, Elias-Gomez).
 The museum hosts the monthly public engagement forum “Café Scientifique” (see section 1).
 Researchers from the UoA have led additional public engagement contributions, joining the Pint
 of Science festival in 2020 (Williamson). All these public engagement events play a dual role:
 increasing the visibility of our research in the city and local area and contributing to researcher
 development by providing opportunities to engage with the public.

 Indicators of wider influence, contribution to the research base

 Several national and international accolades have been awarded which recognise the quality of
 our researchers. The Queens Anniversary Prize was presented to the Centre for Applied
                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Dementia Studies in 2015. This is the most prominent national recognition possible for a
 university, honouring the world class excellence and achievement in developing person-centred
 dementia care and influencing policy and practice in the UK and internationally. In 2018, Downs
 was awarded the British Society for Gerontology Outstanding Achievement Award for her work
 in applied dementia studies over the past 30 years. Mountain received one of only three annual
 awards of Fellowship from the College of Occupational Therapists for lifetime achievement in
 research (2016). Elliott was the first UK recipient of the American Academy of Optometry award,
 the leading international award in optometry (2018), while nationally Mallen progressed from
 Chair of the research committee of the College of Optometrists to the post of President (2018-
 2020). Paradkar and his team of ECRs won the prestigious Bionow project of the year award
 (https://bionow.co.uk/, 2019) recognising the team’s ability to develop products which have
 beneficial effects in the pharmaceutical and nutritional industries. Paradkar and colleagues were
 also finalists in the Best KTP Award 2018 in the Business Impact category. A patented product
 which reduces sodium level in effervescent products was part of this nomination and is now
 licensed (Octopoda Innovations). Falconer is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC);
 Waby, Bloj and Graham are Fellows of the Institute of Biomedical Sciences; Oyebode is Fellow
 of British Psychological Society and Downs is a Fellow of the Gerontological Society of America.

 Recognition of researcher expertise in Europe and internationally is reflected by membership of
 international research councils (Norway, Randell; Austria, Paradkar; USA-Israel Binational
 Science Foundation, International Joint Programme Initiative: More Years Better Lives,
 Oyebode; EU Horizon 2020, Mountain), and reviewing for the Netherlands Organisation for
 Scientific Research and American National Science Foundation (Bloj). Randell is Executive
 Officer of European Federation of Medical Informatics (since March 2019). Graham and Bloj
 have examined PhDs internationally (National University of Singapore, Norwegian University of
 Science and Technology and Universidad de Valladolid in Spain).

 Several professorial staff have been BBSRC grant panel members during the REF period
 (Goldman, Graham, Barrett, McKeefry) or are members of EPSRC or ESRC peer review
 colleges (Mountain, Falconer, Randell, Bloj). Bloj is a member of UKRI Fellowship and
 Infrastructure award panels serving in 1-2 research council funding meetings and/or interview
 panels annually as does Mountain. Randell was a member of the College of Experts for the
 DHSC/UKRI COVID-19 rapid response rolling call for proposals. Several applied health
 researchers sit on NIHR panels such as the HEE/NIHR integrated clinical doctoral programme
 (Hardy), NIHR/CNO Clinical Academic Training Programme Expert Review Panel, and NIHR
 Health Technology Assessment Programme (Mountain), or serve as Associate Members of the
 NIHR Health Services and Delivery Research Funding Committee (Faisal) of which Randell is
 Deputy Chair (since December 2018). In 2017 Anderson became UoB’s research champion for
 the Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard competition and since 2016 Pors has been an
 elected member of the British Council Newton scheme.

 Our UoA researchers are also heavily involved in leadership and membership of charity grant
 panels. During the REF period, Oyebode was Vice Chair of the Alzheimers’ Society grant
 awarding body for Care & Services Research, and Downs served on the Alzheimer's Society
 Research Strategy Council. Helfer was recently appointed chair of the British Society of
 Neuroendocrinology grants committee. Other colleagues are members of other charity panels
 such as the Heart Research UK Translational Grant panel (Graham) and the Physiological
 Society Studentship Review Panel (Helfer).

 Involvement in government policy developments include Daly-Smith acting as consultant to
 Sport England and Public Health England, specifically on school-based physical activity
 expertise. He made significant contributions to the development of the Public Health England
 Active Mile guidance for schools (2019-2020), while also providing academic expertise to the
 Association for Physical Education (AfPE) national steering committee. At a regional level, Daly-
 Smith is on the strategic advisory board for Active Yorkshire and the Yorkshire and Humber



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Physical Activity Knowledge Exchange, with a remit to strategically lead evidence-based practice
 and evaluation across the region.

 Current learned society committee positions include the British Society for Neuroendocrinology
 Steering Committee (Helfer) and the British Pharmacological Society Animal Welfare and In Vivo
 Committee (McLean). Until 2018, Gardner was a member of the British Psychological Society
 Education and Public Engagement Board. Bloj chairs the interdisciplinary society Colour Group
 UK (2018-2021) and was an executive committee member of the Applied Vision Association
 (2015-19) and the British Machine Vision Association (2015-2021).

 Researchers in this UoA are active on editorial boards of various journals. Rattray was Deputy
 Chief Editor of Journal of Neurochemistry (until 2014); Elliott was Editor in Chief of Ophthalmic
 and Physiological Optics (2010-2020); Randell is Associate Editor of the Health Informatics
 Journal; Williamson is Associate Editor of Frontiers in Neurodegeneration; Lord is Associate
 Editor for BMC Health Services Research. Other editorial board memberships include Downs:
 Ageing and Mental Health; Helfer: Journal of Neuroendocrinology, Chronobiology and Frontiers
 in Physiology; McLean: Journal of Neuroscience Research and Graham: Journal of
 Inflammation. Falconer, Pors and Thornton are editorial board members for Scientific Reports.
 Anderson is Editor in Chief for the “Issues in Toxicology” book series and editorial board
 member for 10 international journals while Downs is co-editor of the highly commended book
 “Excellence in dementia care: Research into practice” and is series editor of the Jessica
 Kingsley Good Practice Guides on Dementia Care. Elliott is the editor of the key optometry
 textbook “Clinical Procedures in Primary Eye Care”, now in its 5th edition.

 Most UoA staff regularly review article submissions for specialist journals such as Biochemical
 Journal, British Journal of Pharmacology, Neuroscience Reports, Journal of Investigative
 Dermatology, Journal of Proteomics, Journal of Cancer, Vision Research, Journal of Vision,
 Optics Express as well as interdisciplinary journals such as Scientific Reports and PLoS ONE.

 All researchers regularly present their work at national and international conferences. Bloj was
 keynote speaker at 101st meeting of the Argentinian Physicist Association (2016, Argentina).
 Mountain was keynote speaker at the Alzheimer Europe Annual Conference (Spain, 2018).
 Downs gave the plenary address at the International Congress on Care for Older People (Italy,
 2018). In 2020, Daly-Smith gave the keynote at the Westminster Education Forum on Physical
 Education and School Sport and was invited by the British Council give a keynote at UK Sport
 and Education Conference in Qatar.

 The UK Council for Graduate Education national PGR supervisor recognition has been achieved
 by Paluch and Sheldrake (2020). Paradkar and Thornton were shortlisted as outstanding
 Research Supervisor of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards (2020 and 2019
 respectively). Gardner is a member of the Academic Quality Committee of the ESRC White
 Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) and Cooper took over the role of Director for Well-
 being, Health and Communities pathway in the WRDTP in 2020.




                                                                                            Page 18
