Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 London Metropolitan University
 Unit of Assessment: UoA23 – Education Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview: Context for Submission
The Education submission evidences the commitment of the UoAs researchers to generating world-
leading interdisciplinary educational research and to the rigorous enquiry into the relationship
between innovative and creative practice, criticism and theory. It also evinces international
perspectives of education. While conventional research (understood in terms of that which leads to
published outputs) is conducted across all areas of the Unit, the distinctiveness of our research lies
in applied approaches to research; and in the outward-looking character and the contribution of
applied research to good pedagogic practice both internally and externally at the national and
international level. The ethos of our educational research is steeped in the heritage provided by the
former Institute for Policy Studies (IPSE) with its educational sociological perspectives and through
the educational social psychology foundations provided by the Centre for Educational and
Professional Development (CPED). Both IPSE (in the past) and CPED share a commitment to
transformative education and social justice. The Unit’s research focus has latterly been rebuilt and
reframed through its more recent research activity with theory informed practice at its heart. This is
evidenced through recent initiatives in the field of students as partners, (Abbeglen et al, Harrington
et al) and participatory design projects undertaken by the Higher Education Research Group (HERG)
and led by its Co-Directors. The strength of Unit’s research outputs lie in the cross disciplinary
themes, as well as the international character of many of the submissions, which when combined
with some of the Unit’s outputs which focus on the elaboration of innovative knowledge has resulted
in research that is sector leading and which also links to the recently formed Centre for Equity and
Inclusion at the university. This Centre has been established to implement and promote an Education
for Social Justice Framework across the university and the twin themes of inclusion and diversity are
growing areas of research for the Unit. The Unit’s submissions for this period include work on cultural
plurality in the higher education classroom, evidenced in the work outlined in Impact Case Study
(ICS) ‘The Student Experience of Internationalisation and Cultural Plurality’ which complements the
work of the Centre. The research was based on a funded collaborative research project with another
higher education institution and which culminated in a book publication and which has examined
issues around cultural plurality in national and international contexts. The Unit also boasts strength
in the field of the internationalisation of higher education, both in terms of exploring issues around
internationalising the curriculum and transnational education, with one of the submissions for the
Unit offering a monograph publication in this field.
The ongoing involvement of CPED in this UoA is exemplified in ICS 1, ‘Pedagogy for Social Justice
in Higher Education’, which highlights the theory informed practice aspect of this submission. It is a
testament to the strong track record in both professional development and research for CPED; the
centrality to our equality agenda is reflected in the fact they now report to the PVC Teaching and
Learning who is leading on the University’s inclusion initiatives. CPED touches all subjects and
academic staff, and also supports research students (for example through our annual research
conference and our annual teaching and learning conference and in-house journal) and it does so
in a way that is underpinned by the highest quality research. The CPED journal, Investigations in
university teaching and learning (ISSN 1740-5106), provides a locus for encouraging staff from all
disciplines to engage in educational research and which has often provided a steppingstone further
and more expansive projects.
The vitality of London Met’s educational research in the first part of the current cycle was sustained
through international, national and local research projects supported by successful research bids
from research councils, government and the EU. The REF 2008 and 2014 evidence this strong
research culture in education as well as the impact of the research projects. The activities of the Unit
for the current REF have shifted emphasis and have been redirected both in response to changes
to staffing during this period, brought about my retirements and departures as well as to a shift in

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
emphasis from policy-directed scholarship towards an applied and cross-disciplinary focus on higher
education research, for example the work undertaken by CPED colleagues on a writing project (Write
Now) across 16 university LearnHigher Centres for Excellence in Teaching and Learning led by the
London Met team. The income, outputs and impact for this UoA demonstrate the broadness of the
current approach to education research that has been undertaken.
Today, The Unit’s researchers are drawn from 3 main fields and a number of Schools and disciplines:


   1. The Education Studies subject area, currently located within the School of Social Professions
   2. The Department for Continuing Professional Educational Development (CPED)
   3. Cross- disciplinary researchers who are located in 5 of the 6 Schools across the university
   4. The disciplines of Business studies; Languages and translation; Technology and media
      studies; Education studies; and Psychology, particularly experimental child psychology

The connecting themes for the majority of our researchers are the challenges faced by higher
education, offering different perspectives of current topical debates generated through the diversity
of the subject areas that the Unit exemplifies and the innovative approaches to education practice.

As educational research moved forward into this current REF period, this blend of scholarship and
practice needed a focus that was broader than the university had seen in the previous REF periods.
This shift has seen a smaller research unit mainly focused on higher education topics evolve and
consolidate organisationally and intellectually in HERG. The formation of HERG represented a
natural progression, reflecting a wider ranging and international cross-disciplinary approach to
educational research for the university. HERG was therefore established as a cross-institutional
Group, which provides an umbrella structure to themed research activities in higher education:
internationalisation, pedagogy, learning technologies, staff and student wellbeing and students as
partners. The Group is highly active and has begun to draw together sustained support from the
disciplines listed. Examples of the wide-ranging approach are offered by research undertaken in the
disciplines of social work and psychology, where their interests in education themes bring different
methods (notably quantitative and laboratory-based work) and education research as it applies in
disciplinary settings.
HERG also expanded its education research activities by offering externally led research seminars,
allowing a space for external research strengths to be honed and external projects to be developed.
It also provides support for postgraduate research students, and its members are active in staff and
PGR training programmes. HERG thus provides a structure to facilitate and support cross-
disciplinary research and innovative approaches to educational research through its collaborative
bridge across Schools and institutions.
A key strategic aim of HERG has been to build on staff expertise and knowledge and create a culture
that fosters collaborations with international projects, that supports the applications for research
funding and provides the infrastructure to develop a thriving postgraduate environment, an
environment that has research capacity building as a central tenet. Whilst is too early to judge the
success of this ambition, it remains a strategic aim. The research group structure adopted by HERG
is key to achieving the strategic aim of creating an environment to support the production of world-
leading research and it has enabled an interdisciplinary ethos. This often takes place in conjunction
with practice-based/led researchers and sustains an established focus on the relationship between
thinking and educational practice, and the potential of allowing for creative approaches that can be
seen as a transformative force within our educational culture and practice. HERG is providing a
dynamic environment for cross-disciplinary educational research to be encouraged and
disseminated. HERG’s outward looking approach is further sustained through its international reach.
An example is offered through current projects funded through the award of a small seed fund. This
has been made available through QR funding and School Rescaling funds. One funded project is
focused on exploring the teaching and learning experiences of staff and students in higher education
during the Covid pandemic, another is exploring and analysing the impact of a launch of an
international digital pedagogic tool as part of an international action research project which has

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strong participatory design element. These research projects, their international reach and focus on
innovation, through in particular the development digital global citizenship, not only fit with the
university strategic aim of embedding social justice as part of its curriculum but with a wider ethos of
building reputation and research culture through engaging in pedagogic projects which will impact
and influence the higher education sector. The research leave of two of HERG members will further
concretise the new research projects that HERG is engaging in.
The university’s provision of strategic seed funding for HERG projects demonstrates potential for
enhancing the existing impact and generating further impact and provides a basis for future
international funding bids. An initial research bid was also made to the UPP Foundation for a project,
which aligns itself to university strategic aims of building an inclusive curriculum, improving
continuation and achievement for BAME students, and community engagement as well as building
the potential international reach. The Foundation indicated that whilst the bid was unsuccessful this
year that a further submission should be made to the next round of bidding calls as the bid had been
shortlisted and was only unsuccessful due to the overwhelming numbers submitting bids. A further
bid larger bid has been made to the Nuffield Foundation to support a multi-institutional project with
the aim of using a technological intervention to develop cultural awareness and transferable skills
amongst undergraduate and postgraduate students. The project team includes 3 institutions in
London and 3 institutions across Europe. This underlines the potential for impact generation of
HERG, both at national and international level and that the Group is likely to be recast as a Research
Centre in the near future. HERG supports more staff in developing their research careers and in
completing their doctoral studies through the PhD route or EdD route, or to obtain that qualification
through prior output. HERG is already attracting international PhD applications. It allows for a locus
where a mix of disciplines and a broad range of interests can support the mentoring of staff new to
research and mentoring for those seeking academic promotion. This support is embedded through
the intertwined link with CPED which has a role across the university in terms of researcher
development training.
The UoA will see a growing volume of people work-loaded for research and an increase in
professional staff. The HERG policy of increasing research engagement through seminars for each
stream and the bi-monthly HERG Seminar series provides a bedrock for educational research aimed
at supporting the overall university drive to triple research activity. Currently, HERG has three
Professors and two Associate Professors leading the research teams. The strategic direction of the
unit is the recruitment of more staff with a research remit, the intention is to encourage more research
student registrations through the EdD route, and the increase of PhD registrations facilitated through
the outreach work of HERG.


Research projects enhancing the reach of the Unit
Since 2008, the UoA has achieved research success through the CICE Project which formed an
important income stream for education studies and focus for research on children's identities and
citizenship education. The project was a prestigious Jean Monnet European research project and
led to recognition of the university’s contribution in the field by the European Union. Within this
research period there has also been funded research undertaken into teacher education and
exploration of academic literacies. HERG’s holistic approach to educational research has enabled a
wide-ranging commitment to educational research for the Unit in terms of its reach across Schools
and which includes research on teaching practice. Its outreach work can be seen through supporting
the work of the internationally based Interdisciplinary Network for Research into Assessment
Practice (INRAP), led by Professor Carol Evans at Griffiths University, Australia. The Co-Director
and theme leader for Learning Technologies in HERG are founder members of INRAP.
The Unit’s submission demonstrates the success of the cross-School approach to educational
research in the university as well as the cross-institutional research success that the Unit’s members
have engaged in, illustrating the collaborative positioning of this UoA which is also evidenced in our
impact case studies. In total 3 monographs have been produced as a result of the Unit’s cross-
institutional reach as well as 25 journal papers and a significant number of impact activities
underlining the research excellence for this UoA.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Applied research and research that supports the university mission of giving back to the City and
Knowledge Exchange is a strong feature of the submission. The approach to research is broad in
scope and rich in reach with its cross-disciplinary approach, allowing for research to be supported
and undertaken in the broadest sense and in an applied context. The outputs represent this broad
positioning of the research that has been undertaken as well as the direction for future research.
Research culture
The Unit, although small contributes significantly to the research culture of the university. This is
achieved through its vibrant series of research seminars which are run by HERG throughout the
year, the annual teaching and learning conference, the support offered to Early Career Researchers
(ECRs) through the wider activities of HERG, such as research mentoring and to the university
research training programme and events such as Writing Workshops. The Writing Workshops which
are facilitated by external experts have proved particularly effective in propagating a research culture
for this Unit and in encouraging ECRs and an educational research ethos for education studies. The
Unit has promulgated and embedded the university research policies such as the research mentor
scheme with a number of ECRs in HERG benefitting from research mentorship. Two of HERG
members have been beneficiaries of the research leave scheme which will aid in underpinning the
growth of the Unit’s research activities and outputs for the next period. The members of the Unit
have also been successful in being awarded internal research funds for small research projects
which are part of the global shift in the university to embedding and enhancing the research culture
of the institution. One of the members also received a university research award in recognition of
their research activities which again underlines the contribution this Unit makes to the research
culture of the university.


Sustainability of the University’s Impact
The UoA Impact Case Studies evidence the approach to the research undertaken in Education
Studies Unit, underlining the importance of interdisciplinary research and research that has national
and international impact. Our impact work on social justice in HE in particular evidences the impact
of important work that has been undertaken in a context of academic and learning development, led
by colleagues in our CPED unit which is field-leading research. This includes work that has been
undertaken with regard to Students as Partners, as seen in Harrington’s work with the HEA.
Harrington’s collaboration with Mick Healey, Director of the Institute of Students as Partners resulted
in the development of the conceptual model that has been used annually in the Institute's
programmes delivered by Prof. Mick Healey, with participants from across the world, for example
the Change Institute held at the university of Adelaide in July 2019, which two members of HERG
attended and participated in as the result of university teaching fellowship awards for research
projects. In addition, the development of materials for teaching research methods touches on some
of the key debates and areas of enquiry in the field of higher education research and links to key
priorities for the university’s new strategic plan.
One of our impact case studies outlines the impact that the Unit’s submissions have had at
institutional, national and international level within the field of cultural plurality in the higher education
classroom. The findings from the research underpinning this ICS has led to further research being
undertaken in this area in international contexts and the development of a teaching intervention
which will lead to further international impact.


 2. People


The research activity of the UoA is in now, in the main, housed under HERG umbrella. The HERG
structure is modelled around 5 key themes which reflect researchers’ strengths and current outputs
and the university strategic priorities. This approach is designed to facilitate the integration and
support of the Unit’s researchers, early career researchers, postgraduate research students and
visiting researchers. Each theme has a professorial/associate professor lead who convenes regular
meetings to discuss theme-specific research activities; the leaders also meet together to coordinate

                                                                                                      Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research across HERG. While all HERG researchers are full members of the Group that best
represents their research, they are often associate members of others. We use the five cross cutting
themes to support discourse and collaborative opportunities for individuals and between centres.
The five themes, Internationalisation, Pedagogy, Student and Staff Wellbeing, Learning
Technologies and Students as Partners, provide common touchpoints for our research that enable
productive dialogue between members of our research group and other research centres as well as
the Interdisciplinary Research Forum.
The UoA submission incorporates researchers from the education studies subject area, where EU
projects and resulting outreach have contributed to the impact of the UoA as evidenced in the ICS
‘Pedagogy for Social Justice in Higher Education’. The impact of the work of the researchers from
CPED is outlined particularly in the ICS and CPED researchers form an integral part of the UoAs
wider research activity across the university, encouraging practitioner-based research in the
education field and building education scholarship, which also leads to professional accreditation
within the education field such as Senior and Principal fellowship of the HEA. The cross-disciplinary
researchers whose submissions for part of this UoA are located particularly in the School of Social
Sciences and the Business School and offer additional strength to the work of the UoA allowing a
broader perspective that is both international and offers an innovative and creative aspect to the
work undertaken by the UoA. This underpins the current submissions of this UoA and points to the
far-reaching ethos of the activities undertaken by the members of the UoA and growth for the future.
Breadth, reach and diversity are important themes of the research undertaken by the individuals
within the UoA and they will enhance the future impact of the work undertaken for this UoA.


Staffing Strategy and Staff Development in Education Studies
The approach to staffing is defined by its strategic objective to recruit, develop and retain world-
leading researchers. The focus on increasing visibility, strengthening established areas of research
excellence and investing in emerging areas has underpinned the university approach to recruiting
and supporting staff. All new appointments are made on the basis of excellent research track-records
and future potential linked to the strategic goals of the university.


Support for staff
Education is also the intellectual fulcrum of CPED, even though its brief is university-wide and as
such the Unit’s support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs) is offered through CPED. The
university offers a research training programme for ECRs supported by a research mentoring
programme in each School. The unit has a policy of encouraging and supporting ECRs to develop
their research careers through mentoring, support for early access to the University’s Research
Leave Scheme and through engagement with the Higher Education Research Seminar (HERS)
series. This is facilitated through HERG and through the Schools structure for research. Research
staff performance is addressed systematically through annual Performance Development Reviews
with qualified senior staff and through support from research mentors. A transparent workload
allocation operates. Research active staff with an allocated workload for research are entitled to
departmental travel and research funds. The Education Studies School supports research through
its Research Fund and Travel Fund, whilst both the School, CPED and the University regularly
provide conference attendance support on a competitive basis.
ECRs are encouraged to apply for University Teaching Fellowships (UTFs) and on successful award
of a Fellowship have an opportunity to develop research proposals based on a funding award as a
part of the Fellowship. The Unit has a number of existing UTFs and HERG supports the application
process for ECRs. There are currently 8 SFHEAs and 2 PFHEAs within HERG network as well as 2
NTFs. The Co-Director of HERG is a PFHEA and 2 of the Theme Leaders are SFHEAs and 2 are
NTFs. Scholarship of Learning and Teaching is an essential requirement of all SFHEA and PFHEA
awards.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
At all stages of internal funding bids and research awards and academic staff promotion,
demonstration of potential impact is required at university level, at national level and international
level.


Research students
Within the field of Education Studies, the EdD allows for doctoral research to be supported, with 6
PhD completions over the period. There are currently 16 PGR in the field of Education Studies and
there is a mix of EdD and PhD student researchers. Research Students are integrated into our
research group and are encouraged to link their research to the research themes where possible.
HERG will attract more PhD applicants and candidates with its broad focus and wide-ranging
expertise.
In terms of the support and training that is offered to research students the university and education
subject field offers a rich research and social environment for its PGR students. One of the UoAs
PhD candidates set up and leads the university’s Postgraduate Research Society. The UoA
subscribes to the objectives and values of the VITAE Researcher Development Framework, which
emphasises the development of personal effectiveness and engagement with others in addition to
the acquisition and production of knowledge. The Co-Director of HERG is central to staff researcher
development and heavily involved in the research student training programme. All PGR students are
invited to Induction events outlining the research degree process. These provide PGR students with
an overview of key resources such as the Library and key obligations such as receiving research
ethics approval. The events offer the opportunity to meet other PGR students, supervisors and
representatives from departments. In terms of Progress Monitoring, students are monitored yearly
in a systematic manner by School-based Research Student Progress Groups (RSPG). The process
involves the student reporting on the past year (academic progress, conference attendances,
training, etc., including any obstacles encountered) as well as submitting a research sample (a
chapter, a piece of analysis of data, an artefact). The submission is considered by the supervisors
and by a reader, offering the opportunity of feedback from outside the supervisory team.
In addition to the subject focused activities, the Graduate School runs a programme of weekly
training sessions addressing the PGR process, which HERG members contribute to (for instance
progressing from the MPhil to the PhD stage, preparation for the viva), methodology (quantitative
and qualitative methods, interviewing), career development and wellbeing. The university holds a
Student and Staff Research Conference which offers research students the opportunity of
introducing their research to their peers in a friendly and supportive environment. HERG students
will make a significant contribution to this conference and when numbers have grown, will run a
conference stream. Contributions to the conference can be in the form of a short paper, a poster or
a joint student-staff paper. PGR students are further involved in the PGR Student-Staff Liaison
Forum which is co-organised by students and staff. It consists of representatives from the six Schools
and offers the opportunity of influencing the research culture in the university. The PGR Student
Society also works closely with the Graduate School. It offers research meetings and social events.
Focal points are provided by research groups, for example, HERG Seminar series and research
centre seminars and meetings. The newly established university wide Interdisciplinary Forum also
offers a locus for research students to share their work. The university provides all students with a
suite of research methodology courses (Research Training programme) and HERG supports this
activity with development opportunities for education-based research and practice-based research,
in particular research students have the opportunity to participate in Masters modules, for example
the MA Teaching and Learning. Students also have the option to attend any relevant MA or, where
appropriate, undergraduate courses. Complementing generic skills training and progress monitoring,
our PGR students have discipline specific training according to particular needs and topics. Specific
training needs are thus met at both generic and subject specific levels. In collaboration with Schools,
HERG also organises events to stimulate and facilitate exchange between academia and business,
industry, and public sector. The Doctoral Training Programme is supported via the university VLE
and hosts research seminars with contributions from HERG members.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Equality and Diversity
All staff are required to take part in training on diversity and equal opportunities and Education
Studies follows the University’s equal opportunities and diversity policies in all its recruitment
processes, its centre activities and staff development. The current EDI balance in the UoA is: two
fifths of staff are between 26-50 and nearly all the rest are between 51-65, with only one known
disability. The Unit has a strong female representation, as two thirds of the staff are women as well
as the Unit having had a strong representation in the recent university academic promotions with
three women achieving promotion, two to Associate Teaching Professor and one to Professor. In
terms of the potential gender imbalance in the university with regard to research active staff, the Unit
has therefore made a positive contribution in addressing potential imbalance both in terms of the
numbers of female staff that are research active in the field of education studies but also in terms of
the academic promotions. One member of the Unit was also promoted to Senior Professor. The Unit
currently has three professors, two of which are male and one female. However, it is recognised that
the Unit has a lower representation of staff from ethnic minorities. The Unit is looking to address this
by encouraging ECRs from diverse backgrounds to engage in educational research through
supporting them through the university’s research mentoring scheme, by providing the expertise in
doctoral supervision in the field of educational research, a natural progression from the MA Learning
and Teaching, supported and run through CPED and through the research seminar series run by
HERG.
The recently established Centre for Equity and Inclusion has a strategic aim of EDI training for all
academic staff. As part of the work of this Centre the university is considering extending its
approaches to staff wellbeing as well as this being a theme of HERG. The focus on equality and
diversity in research terms is also evidenced in both Impact Case Study 1 and 2, with regard to the
approach of higher education institutions to culturally plural classrooms and widening-participation
pedagogy. The various HERG research-activity themes will take this work forward.
ECRs are particularly supported and developed through initiatives such as the aforementioned
Investigations, our in-house journal, edited by CPED, which is an Open Access publication. Many of
the papers in the journal receive a high number of citations, increasing the impact factor of the
education studies outputs and activity. In addition, CPED has established opportunities for those
engaging in creative assessment practice to develop their work into applied research and present
the work at seminars for our “CreAte” (creativity in assessment) in-house network. This seminar
activity feeds into a nationally established research network supported by Advance HE. There is also
School specific seminar activity in Education subject area and in the Business School, for example
to encourage educational research in the business environment through the Developing Pedagogies
Group which holds monthly seminars to facilitate and develop the research culture and allow for
ECRs in business education to develop their research projects.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


The Education Studies Unit has attracted significant research funds during the current REF period,
amounting to a sum of £616,000. These funds consist of a number of projects based on successful
research bids, the largest being from the EU for prestigious Jean Monnet Funding. Given that
traditionally Education Studies struggles to attract large bids this amount represents a successful
income period for this UoA. With the appointment of new professors to the Unit, the capacity for
research bidding has increased and whilst this period already seen HERG develop two external
research bids, the next period will see increased research bidding activity.


Organisational infrastructure
In terms of the organisational infrastructure for research and facilitating the impact potential, the
university administration has its focus around the Research Office. The university employs a Funding
Manager centrally to support the development of funding bids developed in the Schools. In addition,
the university operates a Peer Review College to aid in developing research relationship and the

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
infrastructure to support research bids and collaborations. The Peer Review College further provides
a supportive peer driven mechanism to aid in ensuring that potential research collaborations and
bids facilitate the potential for researchers in making a contribution to society and the economy and
assisting in researchers reaching optimum potential with regard to collaborative and bidding
opportunities.


Engaging with Diverse Communities and the Public
Educational research by its very essence and context lends itself to the possibilities for impact in
terms of its engagement with the public. European projects that have been undertaken by this UoA
exemplify such engagement with their focus on the development of citizenship education in diverse
communities and in developing educational practice across Europe. This activity whilst not captured
in the impact case studies, nevertheless has been evidenced and acknowledged as significant
research impact by the European Union. It represents the engagement with diverse communities as
does the research outlined in one of our Impact Case Studies, where the focus for the research has
been the approach of higher education institutions to culturally diverse classrooms. The researchers
are exploring this theme in an international context through existing international networks in subject
disciplines, such as an international network in tourism masters, consisting of 15 international
partners across Europe and North America. The researchers have developed an intervention for a
current action research project which will also be extended to Australia thus extending the reach of
the unit further to international communities.


Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
The submissions for this UoA represent and underline the importance of maintaining an
interdisciplinary approach to educational research and it is anticipated that this ‘interdisciplinarity’
will provide a sustainable driver for the next five years allowing for both expansion and continuity in
terms of the themes of HERG and the potential for successful research bids. The internationalisation
theme has already been successful in attracting funds through an internal research bid and this will
be used to expand the international and interdisciplinary research dimension of the UoA.
As our range of returned outputs evidence, there is considerable expertise in teaching practice and
applied research around teaching practice. This focus on practitioner development informed through
research is a strategic priority for CPED and will continue to offer the discipline a sustained influence
in the field both internally and externally.


Evidence of Wider Influence
The table below exemplifies how the UoA has engaged in activities that represent the wider influence
in the sector. The table below demonstrates in particular that this reach and influence is broad in
terms of the activities undertaken from a unit with a more modest number of staff.


                                                                      No      of
 Activity                                                             Instances
 Award nominations/awards                                             6
 Collaborative research                                               7
 Conference presenting                                                45
 Consultancy                                                          6
 Event organising                                                     9
 External examiner (research degrees only)                            2
 Fellowships and scholarships                                         3


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact                                                              5
 Invited international short course delivered                        1
 Journal Editor                                                      7
 Keynote/plenary speaker                                             14
 Membership of external council, committee, board, network           12
 Other editorial work                                                5
 Participation in external appointment, promotion and tenure
 panels                                                      1
 Publication peer-review                                             113
 Referee                                                             4
 Successful grant capture                                            2
 Visiting researcher                                                 1
 Total                                                               243


The external work undertaken by the UoAs members demonstrates the wider influence and reach of
the Unit, in particular the significant number of Keynote presentations, the membership of external
committees and councils, the editorial work undertaken in the Unit and the numbers of awards and
nominations that have been achieved by those submitted to this UoA. Among our most prestigious
international invitations, we highlight the invitation to participate in research development of
colleagues in Romania and the invitation to participate in an international research project through
the ITMN, hosted by the Universite de Savoie in 2021.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


The UoA operates both from the perspective of the vitality of the heritage model that the outputs in
this UoA have built on and in the current context which is steeped in collaborative endeavours. The
Unit is immersed in research drawn from three primary areas of activity, two of which are distinctly
cross-university and cross-institutional in nature and has as its essence a collaborative and cross-
disciplinary research approach. In addition, members of the Unit work within a research group that
operates cross-institutionally with regular meetings and talks from researchers from other
institutions, as well as close links with Advance HE being maintained and used to promote new foci
for interdisciplinary research and within a context of established international links and fora such as
the International Institute for Students as Partners.


Collaboration
Research collaboration external to the institution has taken place under the large research projects
such as CICE, mentioned above, as well as collaboration within Schools in a cross-disciplinary
context. These projects have resulted in collaboration of researchers across the European Union,
for example the ARES project. The ARES project outputs were the result of exchange practices and
ideas informed by research evidence. The outputs were presented in the form of good practice
guides, developed as resources for schools, teacher education and other professional courses, for
example, materials for research methods. The theme for the project was the development of
citizenship education in Europe through excellence in research and practice. The University
coordinated the Jean Monnet Network Best practice in Citizenship Education Guides (2014-17).
These provide guidance for schoolteachers and teacher educators and add to an extensive database
of resources such as papers, guidelines, learning objects that were developed to promote citizenship
education within a European context. These resources and associated activities


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(two European doctoral student conferences, three partnership conferences) illustrate the
collaborative context of educational research in the university which is international in nature and
context. The CICE project has been flagged by the European Commission as an example of good
practice and defined as a project that has been ‘...particularly well managed and can be a source of
inspiration for others’.
The project has also been marked as a "success story" in the Erasmus+ Project Results Platform, a
database offering descriptions and results of projects funded under the Erasmus+ Programme for
Education, Training, Youth and Sport, as well as its predecessor programmes.
The Education Studies team has also contributed alongside academics from 47 universities across
Europe to produce good practice guides in citizenship education for teachers and teacher educators.
The Education subject group has worked closely with CPED to host CAPITAL (Creative and
Professional Innovations in Teaching and Learning) seminars; these meet twice termly to promote
Research Informed Teaching (RIT) across the education courses and encourage appropriate
scholarly activity. The projects also demonstrate the collaborative nature of research in the
university, as it was cross-departmental and demonstrates that the team is committed to
technologically progressive pedagogies that facilitate wider student engagement and value creativity
in learning in an international context.
This project enjoyed substantial EU funding and garnered significant impact through its collaborative
positioning. The EU have expressed their gratitude for the work undertaken on this project and the
impact that it has had in the field of education (evidence available). Similarly, the Romanian project
has generated collaboration with other institutions. This project had two strands of impact that are
significant for the education submission and the ‘Pedagogy of Social Justice in Higher Education’
ICS highlights some of the work undertaken in the CAPITAL project which has produced international
impact.
The Co-Directors for HERG and the theme leader for Learning Technologies and the Director for the
Learning Technologies Centre are co-founders of the Interdisciplinary Network for Research into
Assessment Practice (INRAP) led by Professor Carol Evans (now at Griffiths University, Australia)
and in collaboration with Advance HE. INRAP has received seed funding for its launch on Connect
HE and the founding researchers are from 5 other institutions around the UK. Working with Advance
HE, the research group offers Webinars of good assessment and feedback practice and offers a
forum for national research into assessment practice, supporting conferences and seminars on
impactful assessment approaches in higher education.
The overarching plan for the UoA’s research future is to: continue to build critical mass in each
research theme, through sustained and where appropriate increased research grant income, to
continue collaboration across themes to generate new directions for research; and to further develop
the doctoral programme both within HERG and across the Education Studies subject field, whilst
supporting ECRs into academic careers. Each research theme of HERG also addresses its own
specific developmental needs within the broader research and university environment. As HERG
grows its applied and theoretical research into higher education in a context of people, places, their
interactions and pedagogic processes will expand the impact of the research undertaken by HERG
and the external membership and linked networks will also grow, particularly in international
contexts. The Group is developing national and international research collaborations, for example,
with the Universita degli Studi di Milano-Biccoca and Universite de Savoie, in areas such as cultural
encounters in education, teaching practice and innovation in education as well as climate change,
focusing on the transformative potential of applied educational projects at both national and
international levels, including digitally enabled knowledge exchange. The flexibility and nimbleness
of researchers within HERG in engaging in topical research contexts is also illustrated by recent
international research undertaken on student and staff experiences of teaching and learning during
the Covid pandemic in different European institutions. The convergence of disciplines under an
educational umbrella allows us to address challenges to the contemporary educational environment
and places us in a good position to develop the Unit’s programme of research over the next five
years.




                                                                                             Page 10
