Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of Stirling

Unit of assessment: A4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit context: Stirling’s Division of Psychology conducts world-class research addressing
fundamental questions about the mind and behaviour. Our unique strengths include innovative
research on face processing, cognitive development, mobile cognition and cultural evolution. The
Division comprises two research groups submitted to A4 UoA (Behaviour and Evolution; Cognition
in Complex Environments) and a third group (Health and Behaviour Change) that works closely
with Stirling Faculty of Health and Sport and is submitted to A3. In REF2014 our A4 submission
was ranked 1st for Impact (out of 82 institutions) and 18th overall, achieving the highest overall
GPA for a small volume submission (14 FTE). Since 2014 we have built on this success in the
following ways:

•    We have attracted £4.8 million in funding, a ~50% increase in grant capture since 2015.
•    We have made a significant investment in staffing, with the appointment of 11 early career
     staff.
•    We have increased our research capacity by investing in cutting edge equipment (e.g., Infrared
     Spectroscopy (fNIRS) and mobile electroencephalography (EEG)) that allows new insights into
     psychological questions, in laboratory and real world contexts.
•    We have produced research that has improved animal welfare, motivated changes in the UK
     guidelines for football heading in children, improved the facial composite detection of criminals
     and improved the experiences of prison inmates.

These developments are underpinned by specialist research facilities. These include a unique, in-
house Kindergarten for the study of neurocognitive development, as well as laboratories for facial,
spatial and perceptual cognition.

Structure of the unit: This A4 submission includes two research groups (27.4 FTEs), but in practice
members of all three Divisional research groups work closely together (Figure 1). Here we provide
brief overview of the groups in this submission.

    OUR VISION: to increase understanding of mind and behaviour and use these findings
             to improve the health and wellbeing of humans and other animals.


The Behaviour and Evolution Research Group (BERG) focuses on cognition, communication
and welfare in a wide range of species (and primates in particular, including humans). This group
uses evolutionary principles to guide interdisciplinary
research investigating the phylogenetic origins, mechanistic
operation, ontogenetic development, and fitness benefits of
human and nonhuman behaviours (Buchanan-Smith,
Caldwell, Fedurek, Kessler, Lee, Martin-Ordas, Roberts,
Vick).
The Cognition in Complex Environments Group focuses
on neuropsychological and cognitive development
throughout the lifespan, from birth to senescence. This
group uses neurophysiological measures (EEG, mobile
EEG, fNIRS and single-unit electrophysiology) to assess
how the brain processes spatial information and memories
(Argyropoulos, Bobak, Cage, Dering, Dudchenko,                    Figure 1. Research groups in the
Fukumura, Gheorghiu, Goutcher, Grainger, Hancock,                 Division of Psychology at Stirling
Ietswaart, Keitel, Kourtis, Kuipers, Langton, MacLeod, Park,
                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Rafetseder, Reader and Wilson).

How we have achieved our strategic aims for research: In this REF period our aims were to i)
increase our developmental and social psychology expertise, ii) enhance our research capacity
and extend it to non-laboratory contexts, and iii) strengthen interdisciplinary research links. We
have achieved these aims in the following ways:

      i) We have focussed on hiring and developing early career researchers to achieve our
strategic aim of making developmental psychology a new area of strength. This has led to
success in attracting external funding, including the new Schooling Across Neurocognitive
Development project, funded by the Jacob Foundation, which explores how brain development
underpins school readiness. A second example is a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship that was
                                                       awarded to study the development of face
                                                       processing in children and young adults.
   BOX 1. Our structure facilitates cross-cutting      Also, an Academy of Medical Sciences-
                    collaborations.                    funded project focuses on prospective
                                                       memory in children with autism spectrum
 For example, developmental psychology has             disorder, and a recently awarded a Royal
 emerged as a key strength, with involvement from      Society of Edinburgh Sabbatical Research
 different research groups: Grainger and Cage          Grant will support the study of anxiety in
 (Cognition) use cognitive tests to investigate        autism. We have also strengthened our
 developmental disorders in the new Stirling           social psychology research profile by
 Autism Research Laboratory; Martin-Ordas              appointing researchers that fit within our
 (Behaviour and Evolution) uses comparative            existing groups, but who investigate
 methods to study episodic future thinking;            inherently social issues. These include
 Rafetseder and Wijeakumar (Cognition) use             new research on language production and
 neuroimaging to examine working memory in             comprehension (Fukumura), the evolution
 children; Caldwell (Behaviour and Evolution) uses     of human approaches to caring (Kessler),
 both developmental and comparative approaches         the evolution of cognitive processes
 to test cognition and cultural evolution in both non- (Martin-Ordas)        and    communication
 human primates and human children. Together,          (Fedurek), memory and emotion regulation
 these form a vibrant area of strength in the study    (Argyropoulos) and the neural correlates of
 of cognitive development.                             joint action (Kourtis and Reader).

                                                             ii) We have increased our research
capability using the funding generated by success in the previous REF to acquire specialised,
cutting-edge equipment that enables staff to exploit new and emerging research fields. We have
added skills and equipment in functional near-infrared spectroscopy, mobile EEG and mobile eye-
tracking, virtual- and augmented reality, brain stimulation, mobile electromyography (EMG) with
foot-pressure insoles for monitoring walking/gait, and human-robot interactions (see Box 2).
For the instrumented person project, now known as ‘Mobile Cognition’, our aim was to move
beyond the laboratory and allow EEG and psycho-physiological equipment to be routinely used
in naturalistic, everyday settings. To support this we invested in mobile eye-tracking equipment,
significantly extending the range of contexts in which eye-tracking can be used (leading, for
example, to current projects involving the visual attention of children in classroom environments).
Alongside hardware, we have invested in the development of software though our dedicated
technical support team (which includes two full time electronic engineering and programming
technicians), allowing researchers to combine mobile EEG, eye-tracking and EMG or foot-sensors,
as well as allowing time-based and event-locked analysis of heart rate variability data and action-
related events. Success in this new approach is evidenced by the first demonstration that mobile
EEG can be employed to measure the division of attention during walking in naturalistic contexts
(Ladouce in Scientific Reports, 2019: tinyurl.com/zmpctzre). The focus on building capability has
allowed us to pioneer the use of mobile neuroimaging methods, moving research from constrained
laboratory-based situations into real-world scenarios. These include the neural signatures of
students selecting books in the library or of Parkinson’s patients avoiding obstacles. This approach
has provided a paradigm shift for cognitive research by taking it beyond the laboratory (Ladouce in
                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, 2017:
tinyurl.com/28dyf9e5).
                                                   BOX 2. New research on human-robot
iii) To drive scientific opportunities, we have                   interactions
emphasised interdisciplinary research and
methodological innovation. This has been
facilitated by the University of Stirling’s
research strategy, which            has three
overarching themes: Cultures, Community
and Society, Global Security and Resilience
and Living Well. As well as aligning research
with these themes, 12 interdisciplinary
research programmes have been prioritised
by the University – 10 of which involve How humans interact with one another has
researchers in Psychology, and two of which been a central concern for psychology since
are led by Psychology (Health and Behaviour its inception. In today’s world, however, our
and Mobile Cognition). These programmes interactions are increasingly virtual or with
have brought internal investment into machines. How we coordinate our efforts –
Psychology (including four funded Ph.D. both at the level of joint action and in decoding
studentships, a postdoctoral fellow and new the intentions of others - is a new research
equipment), and encouraged interdisciplinary focus within the Division by Kourtis (appointed
projects. For example, a member of the in 2017), in collaboration with colleagues at
Behaviour and Evolution group interested in Heriot-Watt University.
episodic memory and future thinking in
children and animals has developed links with
colleagues in Biological and Environmental Sciences at Stirling to study cognition in bees (leading
to a collaborative grant from the Leverhulme Trust, £369K). A member of the Cognition group is
working closely with a UKRI Fellowship holder from Philosophy scheme to test belief revision in
pigs, dogs and human children. From within the University’s Mobile Cognition programme,
members of the Psychology Division have collaborated with colleagues in the Division of Sports
Studies on a large-scale, cross-cultural study on aging in Scotland and South Africa (currently
underway). In addition, Medical Research Scotland is supporting a research project combining
neuroimaging and sports medicine.

In addition to the collaborations and grants mentioned above, the vitality and sustainability of our
research groups is evidenced through other awards. The Behaviour and Evolution group has
attracted a major European Research Council Consolidator grant (£1.3 million) to investigate
cognitive mechanisms that generate human cumulative culture (Caldwell). This funding supported
four Ph.D. students and two post-doctoral fellows, and has provided new evidence on how children
acquire the capacity for imitation. Also in this assessment period, Behaviour and Evolution group
has attracted funding from the BBSRC and the National Centre for Replacement, Refinement &
Reduction of Animals to work with industry partners (GlaxoSmithKline; Charles Rivers
Laboratories) to improve the welfare of animals used in scientific experiments. The impact of this
work is described in the Improving Health and Wellbeing of Laboratory-Housed Animals case
study that is part of this submission.

In the Cognition group, funding has been awarded for research in several of our areas of research
strength. For example, three awards from the BBSRC have supported research on human EEG
and memory for faces, as well as the neural correlates of spatial navigation (total: £717K). A
member of this group is the Psychology lead on a 5-year EPSRC programme grant to develop
automated face recognition (£665K to Stirling).    In visual perception, new research has been
developed in stereoscopic depth perception and scene segmentation supported by the Defence
and Security Accelerator fund and a grant from the UK Government Office for Science. Work on
symmetry perception, colour and shape perception has been supported by grants from the
Wellcome (£208K) and Leverhulme Trusts (£123K). As a final example, an early-career researcher
in the Cognition group produced a top-rated proposal from the ESRC (£383K) for work on the
                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

detection of concealed recognition of faces. This success was underpinned by Divisional funding
for this member of staff to develop links with collaborators in Japan.

How we have achieved our strategic aims for impact: The Psychology Division is part of the
Faculty of Natural Sciences and we have embedded impact within our research culture via the
Faculty of Natural Science’s Impact Strategy. This has three objectives: improving impact literacy
through training and the sharing of best practice, enabling identification of a wide range of potential
and ambitious impact objectives, and recognising and tracking impact as it happens. To achieve
these, within the Division we have an Impact Champion who works with the Faculty’s Associate
Dean of Impact and the Faculty Impact Committee to further impact activities. In addition, our
impact case study authors act as ‘impact ambassadors’, sharing knowledge, skills and insights
gained during their journeys to successful outreach. We also share our best practice and learn
from others across the institution through engagement with Impact Champions in other faculties.
To assess how these objectives are achieved, impact contributions are a standing item in our
annual Achieving Success performance review and are recognized in the promotion process.

Under our impact strategy we have funded and facilitated engagement with non-academic
stakeholders. Examples of this include:

•   Work on human-animal interactions (Behaviour and Evolution group) has shown that the
    introduction of a dog-training programme for rescue dogs in a young offenders institute
    improved self-efficacy, emotional management and reduced impulsivity for the inmates, as well
    as improved dog welfare. This has led to the uptake of this programme in two additional
    prisons and the development of a similar programme in the Serbian Prison Service.

•   We have hosted local authority education policy officers, teachers and researchers from
    education to a workshop on enhancing teaching based on our findings in the use of
    metacognition in education

•   We have hosted experts from industry and government in a workshop on improving animal
    housing, husbandry and scientific procedures in commercial laboratories. This led to two
    successful grant applications (BBSRC and NC3Rs), in collaboration with industry, to develop
    best practice exchange. Our researchers also contributed to changing the Secretary of State’s
    Guidelines for the Management of Zoo Animals (elephants) through participation in industry
    welfare committees.

•   We have hosted sports coaches and experts from concussion related charities to an event to
    discuss our recent research on football heading. This event led to the development of links
    with a company developing protective headgear, who subsequently funded two Ph.D.
    studentships. It also led to an additional studentship funded by Medical Research Scotland.

•   We brought together academics and those interested in the design of facilities for those
    suffering from memory loss for a Neuroscience and Dementia Design workshop that
    highlighted research on brain representations of the outside world. This workshop and the
    underlying research were funded by a BBSRC award in the Cognition group.

In addition, the University has invested in Post-Doctoral Impact Fellowships, aligned to the
Research Programmes. For example, the Impact Fellow appointed to Mobile Cognition provides
an interdisciplinary link between Psychology and Philosophy.

Principles guiding future strategy: At a time of change due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we are
responsive to emerging research questions and working to mitigate risks. In the immediate term,
we are seeking to:
                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


•   Explore new questions. The current public health crisis has raised questions which we are
    well-placed to address. For example, our Developmental Psychology group is using a citizen-
    science approach to assess how to safely return children to nurseries (in the Psychology
    Kindergarten) and the Face Lab has investigated recognition of masked faces.

•   Refine the way we conduct our face-to-face research. In the immediate future, we are working
    within established guidelines (e.g., the Simmons and Luck (2020) protocol) to ensure that safe
    practice is maintained in face-to-face testing, for example, with the application of EEG
    electrodes and fNIRS optrodes.

•   Develop creative new ways of working. For example, we have recently invested in wearable
    electroencephalogram (EEG) technology that can be used by participants to record data in
    their own homes. This is being used to assess EEG correlates of attention and wakefulness
    (e.g. alpha rhythms). Such efforts ensure the sustainability of our research, independent of the
    circumstances.

Over the next five years our research groups have three aims:

•   To understand developmental disorders in order to improve developmental experience:

       o   Use the new Stirling Autism Research Laboratory to conduct high-quality autism
           research, which aims to better understand and support autistic children, young people
           and adults, with a particular focus on improving wellbeing.
       o   In the early years: understand development as it relates to readiness for schooling. This
           will have far-reaching impact for education policy-makers, education providers and
           parents.
       o   In adolescence: Improve how students handle transitions, particularly the move into
           university and the move beyond university. One focus will be on how students
           understand their own thinking (metacognition), as well as bio-psycho-social factors
           changes and brain development. This will lead to interventions in secondary and higher
           education establishments to improve outcomes.
       o   In developmental disorders: understand the mental health challenges in adults and
           children.
       o   These will be taken forward by the Cognition research group, and we will focus on
           supporting the cluster of researchers in developmental psychology within the Division.
           As described in the infrastructure section below, we are well placed to capitalise on this
           strength with our in-house Kindergarten.

•   To understand evolution and mechanisms underpinning behaviour as well as improving the
    welfare of humans and animals:

       o   Use a One Health/One Welfare approach that recognises the health and wellbeing of
           humans, animals and the environment are inextricably interlinked to develop Stirling’s
           Human Animal Interaction Research group as a hub for international collaboration. This
           will guide policy and practice in animal husbandry, with implications for human-animal
           impact in settings such as hospitals and schools. Given that the global pandemic
           originated at the human-wildlife interface, linking biodiversity exploitation with animal
           and human health is essential.
       o   Use an evolutionary and comparative approach to understand how care-giving
           behaviours for sick individuals evolve in nonhuman animals and humans. This will help
           us to understand how human healthcare systems have evolved and how we, as a
           species, have responded to infectious diseases over evolutionary time (including during
           COVID-19).
       o   Lead on the expansion of Living Links (the collaborative research field station at

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

           Edinburgh Zoo) both locally and internationally by incorporating Blair Drummond Safari
           Park and a Living ‘wild’ Link field station in Suriname as allied outposts. This will link
           research in captivity and in the wild, generating ecologically valid hypotheses that can
           be tested in a variety of settings.
       o   Collaborate with international research field sites in Uganda (Kibale Chimpanzee
           Project, Budongo Conservation Field Station) and Ivory Coast (Tai Chimpanzee
           Project) studying wild chimpanzees and promoting wildlife conservation.
       o   These will be taken forward by the Behaviour and Evolution research group, with a
           particular focus on delivering impact by promoting the welfare and conservation of animals,
           and positive interactions between humans and animals.
•   To understand core psychological processes during movement:

       o   Investigate functional and neural mechanisms of perception, memory, language and
           action using novel techniques. One goal is to exploit our mobile cognition technology to
           measure multiple physiological and psychological measures simultaneously (e.g.,
           integrated mobile eye-tracking, movement recording and EEG).
       o   Using mobile cognition expertise to assess brain-behaviour relationships in a variety of
           contexts including sporting behaviour (football heading and concussion), aging
           populations (monitoring gait and eye-movement in the elderly), clinical populations (gait
           and mobile EEG in Parkinson’s patients) and the interactions between humans and
           robots.
       o   These will be taken forward by the Cognition group, and specifically by the Mobile
           Cognition research programme (in collaboration with researchers in Sports Studies).

Section 2. People

Staffing strategy: The key strategic aim for the Psychology Division has been to attract and
develop a talented group of academics to enhance our vibrant research environment. Our focus is
on the recruitment and development of early-career researchers to add new areas of expertise
(e.g., autism and developmental disorders) and to expand our range of research techniques. To
that end we have invested in 11 new lecturers since 2018. Additionally, Bobak, who secured a
Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship, will transition into a full-time lectureship in January 2023.
This development is also reflected in our promotion success, with two new Professors, two
Associate Professors and three Senior Lecturers during the assessment period.

Highlights of The Division of Psychology’s staffing strategy include:

•   A commitment to equality and diversity. The University’s commitment to gender equality was
    recognised in the institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2016. Psychology is committed
    to achieving Departmental Athena Swan recognition (currently submitted), and Equality,
    Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is a standing item at Faculty and Divisional meetings. We have
    improved awareness and avoidance of the conscious and unconscious biases that affect all
    stages of recruitment and advancement in research with training for staff on these panels. The
    Psychology Division now provides a six month research leave after maternity leave and this
    has been successful: following maternity leave, a member of the Cognition group used her
    paid research leave to prepare a research bid on metacognition in autism which was awarded
    in 2020 from the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Staff on leave are invited to our staff away days
    with full support for attendance with an infant. As described above, the Division features a
    Psychology Kindergarten and Toddler group, which can be used by all staff and students, and
    this supports our EDI strategy. Psychology committees, meetings and seminars are scheduled
    between 10-4, to allow those with child-care responsibilities to attend. In a staff survey
    conducted in 2020, 87% of staff in the Psychology Division agreed/strongly agreed that
    ‘Psychology had provided them with adequate support during lockdown‘, regardless of gender.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   Balancing workloads Our promotion of equality and diversity applies to the balance of impact of
    administrative and teaching tasks on researcher productivity. Staff are formally assigned a ratio
    of 40:40:20 workload for research, teaching and administrative duties respectively, which we
    monitor in staff appraisals. As noted above the allocation of key roles in the Division is gender-
    balanced. All new members of staff are paired with a senior mentor to help guide their efforts
    towards research success and promotion.

•   Fostering an interdisciplinary view of psychology Eleven of our research staff did not study for
    an undergraduate degree in psychology or associated disciplines. Researchers’ first degrees
    in pure and applied biology, chemistry, physics, anthropology, literary arts and engineering
    demonstrate our commitment to supporting non-traditional, multi-disciplinary routes into
    psychology, recognising the benefits they bring.

•   Valuing different backgrounds We have recruited research staff from Australia, Austria,
    Belgium, France, Holland, Germany, Greece, Japan, Poland, Romania, Sri Lanka and the
    United States included in this submission. This staff composition ensures that the Division is
    truly international, outward-looking and engaged with internationally recognised research from
    across the globe (see Figure 6 below).

Staff development: The Division of Psychology strives to provide a supportive and intellectually
stimulating environment for all staff. The University subscribes to the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers, and within the Division early career researchers are nurtured
within each research group and within an early career support group. In addition, training and
development planning are a central part of Stirling’s Achieving Success annual progress review. In
this review, annual plans are discussed with
a senior colleague and staff are asked to
identify development needs in the context
their current role and their professional
ambitions. The Achieving Success process is
also dynamic: in the summer of 2020, for
example, all plans were revisited in light of
the challenges arising from the Covid-19
pandemic.
                                                      Figure 2. Weekly meeting of the
Staff development is also supported in the            Cognition        and       Complex
following ways:                                       Environments research group. Each
                                                      research group acts as a sounding
Support      from     colleagues.     Personal        board for new research findings and
development is supported through regular
                                                      research directions.
Division and Research Group meetings.
Divisional weekly seminars provide an
opportunity for staff and students to engage with internationally-recognised speakers. In addition,
each semester the Division runs a themed away-day, involving research, administrative and
support staff. The agenda for the away days includes organisational knowledge-sharing and
technical training, as well as exercises to support and develop group coherence. Research groups
meet weekly to provide on-the-ground support for identifying funding opportunities, providing peer
support for research bids, fostering impact and supporting postgraduate researchers (see Figure
2). For example, the Cognition group has a weekly ‘cognition-and-cake’ session where one
researcher presents their new findings to the group. Behaviour and Evolution have weekly drinks
and nibbles talks where dogs and children are also welcome. There is also a social ‘cake-
Tuesday’ for the entire Division to foster collegiality and friendships, especially important for
welcoming new staff

Opportunities for training. A wide range of training and development opportunities are provided by
Stirling University and the Faculty. Division-level training focuses on skills and methods relevant to

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

our researchers, including general research tools (such as using Research-Professional or
Altmetric) and specialist techniques (such as use of Qualtrics, Testable, multi-level modelling and
eye-tracking).

Flexibility to try new things. We encourage staff to be ambitious and to be confident that risks or
changes in research focus will be supported. For example, as a new member of staff Dering came
to Stirling from a Ph.D. focused on Event Related Potentials and face detection. In establishing his
own direction, he developed a research interest in the effects of alcohol on cognition. He was
supported to retain in vivo studies (collaborating with researchers in Italy funded by SINAPSE) and
via a Ph.D. studentship funded by the Division on the effects of binge drinking. Whilst this
reframing had risk, it has been successful: Dering now has a new programme of research, with
strong potential for long term impact, and has recently developed a new collaborative Ph.D.
studentship with a company (One Year No Beer) promoting alcohol reduction.

Time for research. As well as supporting skills development, we protect researchers from
encroachment into the time allocated for research and provide opportunities to ring-fence quality
research time. The Faculty workload model provides a reduction in the teaching by 50% in the first
year for new staff to allow their research to thrive from the outset. All staff also benefit from the
opportunity apply for Research Leave (6-months leave after 6 semesters of service or 12-months
leave after 12 semesters) to focus entirely on developing international collaborations and impact,
to submit multi-centre grant applications and to publish high-quality research papers. Since
REF2014 a total of 22 periods of Research Leave have been awarded and these have yielded
successful funding bids (e.g., to the BBSRC and Defence and Security Acceleratory Fund).

A bottom-up approach. Initiatives within the Division often develop from the ground up. For
example, the Early Careers Challenges and Opportunities (ECHO) group was formed by Ph.D.
students and post-docs to provide support in dealing with early-career demands. This group meets
monthly, and prior to Covid-19 restrictions this was over a divisionally-funded lunch. Similarly, as
developmental psychology has emerged as a strength, postgraduate students have been
encouraged to lead the Scottish Developmental Psychology Network, an interdisciplinary network
of students and early career researchers which hosts knowledge exchange and networking event
for participants from multiple Scottish Universities. Finally, to foster leadership skills in early
career staff, a member of the Behaviour and Evolution group founded the Stirling Crucible
(modelled on a Royal Society of Edinburgh programme that provides ‘a leadership and
development programme for Scotland’s research leaders of the future’). As described in the
Institutional-level statement, Stirling’s Crucible is now a University-wide programme that enhances
skills and allows mixing with peers from different disciplines. Four cohorts of researchers - many
from Psychology - have benefited to date.

Succession planning. A key component of our sustainability is in the provision of leadership
opportunities, particularly for mid-career academics. This approach has facilitated leadership
development within the Division with mid-career staff now in key roles such as of Deputy Heads,
Head of Division, Chief Examiner, Ethics Chair, Equality and Inclusion Champion and
Postgraduate Director. These changes have also allowed the Division to improve the gender
balance in senior roles (five of these seven roles are filled by women), and to ensure the long-term
sustainability of our leadership and research culture.

Technical and administrative support. The technical staff within the Psychology Division are key to
our research and instructional success. They are led by the chief technician and feature expertise
in mechanical and electrical systems and computing and I.T. systems. In turn, we support their
development and visibility by providing well equipped electrical and computing workshops and by
their participation in our Divisional meetings. The University has subscribed to the Technician
Commitment, and in Psychology we encourage our technical staff to continue to develop their
technical and (where desired) academic skills. Our IT Systems technician, for example, is pursuing
his Ph.D. studies part-time within the Division. In the Divisional office, our research groups are
supported by five outstanding administrative staff allowing academics to focus on research and
                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

impact activities. Beyond this, the University provides central support for grant development,
information technology and marketing/recruitment via dedicated offices for each.

Organisation and management: Each research group has a leader whose role is to provide
oversight, direction and governance, and to serve on the Psychology Research Committee (led by
Divisional Director of Research). The Psychology Research Committee meets monthly, with a
remit to identify and address obstacles to research and to support research bids and Ph.D. student
progress. In turn, the Divisional Director of Research is a member of the Faculty of Natural
Science Research Committee (together with Biological Sciences, Computing Science and Maths,
and Aquaculture), which meets monthly to develop, drive and embed progress within each Division
and to implement the University’s research strategy.
A key aim of the Divisional structure is to encourage innovation, ensuring that new developments
fit local needs. For example, recent investment in functional near-infrared spectroscopy imaging
equipment arose from proposals in Cognition and Complex Environments group, based on a
desire to use neuroimaging in infants. Our local systems are enhanced by specialist support from
the University Research and Innovation Services (RIS), which provides guidance and expertise in
relation to policy and strategy, research ethics and governance, grant development and
management of active grants. RIS also provide professional training and development – including
external grant writing expertise and a range of local and online resources for all staff.

Postgraduate student support, training and supervision: Research postgraduate students are
central to our research culture and 28 Ph.Ds. have been awarded by the Division during the past
seven years. We support and develop our postgraduate students by providing individual funding
(£2,250 per student for conference attendance and research expenses), delivering a dedicated
bespoke training programme, providing a stimulating but supportive environment, and closely
matching supervisors to nurture talent and to deliver high-quality research. In addition to this local
support, the University provides support across the postgraduate community within its Institute of
Advanced Studies. A fundamental goal of the Institute is to enhance the postgraduate experience
by providing skills training and career assistance.

Features of these approaches are as follows:
As members of the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science and ESRC Doctoral Training
Partnership, we attract students who are funded through the Psychology Pathway for 3 or 1+3
years. In addition, the University, Faculty and Division regularly funds studentships. Awards are
made competitively through a process that requires candidates to seek external funding. This
approach attracts high-quality applicants and successfully leverages external funds from multiple
sources, including ESRC CASE awards, Carnegie Ph.D. Scholarships, Scottish Chief Scientist
Office, ORS, HEA, the Leverhulme Trust and national and international charities. In addition, we
have forged strong links with industry partners. . For example, two BBSRC CASE awards have
been awarded in conjunction with partners at Unilever and AstraZeneca. The University has
supported University Impact Studentships in Psychology, and a Faculty scheme offers matched
research postgraduate awards, encouraging industrial, commercial or charitable partnerships., We
also fund six bursaries for MSc students per year, which allows us to identify and encourage talent from
our annual pool of MSc students to continue as research-based students. We have 148 MSc students
currently (2019-2020 intake; 38 of which are in Health Psychology), and have purposefully
developed specialist MSc pathways based on our research strengths in Child Development,
Evolutionary Psychology, Cognition, Faces, Perception, Autism and Human-Animal Interactions.
Our Ph.D. students are drawn to study at Stirling from across the globe. We also host Ph.D.
students from Europe as part of the ERASMUS exchange programme and as guests. For example,
a Ph.D. student from Croatia who worked within a Division lab received the Kondic Memorial Award
from the British Scholarship Trust in 2017 (awarded to the scholar who made the best use of their
visit to the UK).
Our postgraduate students are provided with extensive training and support, guided by Vitae’s
Every Research Counts and Researcher Development Framework agendas, the employability
                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

agenda set out by the University of Stirling (2011) and the Scottish Government imperatives on
employability (2012). Formal training for postgraduate students is delivered at three levels: by the
Division, through the university’s dedicated Institute of Advanced Studies and through our
membership of the ESRC’s Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) in Scotland.
The Division of Psychology provides postgraduates with training in research methods, including
quantitative and qualitative techniques, as well as key ‘Skills for Psychologists’ (ethics; science
communication; networking; impact; grant writing and reviewing). Membership of SINAPSE
provides access to European network funding and regular training events in imaging methods
including an annual scientific meeting; membership of the Scottish Primate Research Group allows
our research postgraduate students access to primate research facilities in Edinburgh Zoo,
including cognitive testing and attendance of professional meetings.
Within Psychology we encourage a supportive and active research environment by including
postgraduates in all research group meetings, workshops, oral presentations and poster
conferences. We organise dedicated postgraduate events, such as networking opportunities and
peer lunches, to create a positive culture of engagement. Our postgraduates also have staff-level
access to all facilities and support, which includes 4.9 FTE administrative and 4 FTE technical staff
in Psychology, plus additional Faculty support staff. We also actively encourage postgraduates to
engage with external collaborators and present at national and international conferences.
Supervision for each student is provided with at least two supervisors. Students work closely with
their supervisors (with daily to bi-weekly meetings, depending on the project), and with progress
and actions being recorded in an online log. Within Psychology the Research Committee directs
formal staff-student consultations, and separate pastoral care and support is available independent
of those responsible for assessment and progression via a Postgraduate Tutor plus an individually
allocated Personal Tutor.

Annual progress appraisals are conducted by the Postgraduate Director and Director of Research.
Progression to the 2nd year of Ph.D. study requires passing a formal 1st Year assessment,
including a mini-viva to discuss a draft publication, modelled on a Ph.D. relevant paper.
Subsequent years are also marked by formal annual progress reviews. We encourage publishing
at postgraduate level, with the goal of having one or more papers in submission before graduation.
Postgraduates typically present their research internally within the Division and Faculty and
externally by the end of year two.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income: In the REF period, the Division of Psychology has had notable success in attracting
research income from diverse sources. Since 2014 our overall research income has nearly
doubled. EU funding has risen from approximately £48k during the preceding REF period to over
£770k in the current period, while charitable funding has increased more than ten-fold, from £35k
to £364k, in the same period. Figure 3 illustrates the change in research income over the REF
period (two year interval averages).

We have achieved funding growth by communicating University strategic expectations and
aspirations to our research staff, implementing a rigorous internal peer-review process, providing
training on funding application planning, increasing the level of mentoring of junior staff by
experienced colleagues and through diversification of our target funders. We now receive income
to support our research from multiple sources including:

  • UK industry: Vasopharm GmbH; OYNB; Boots UK Ltd
  • UK charities: The Carnegie Trust, The Leverhulme Trust and Wellcome Trust
  • Research Councils: ESRC, EPSRC, BBSRC and NC3Rs
  • Central Government: Academy of Medical Sciences, National Institute for Health Research,
    UK Office for Science
  • European funding: Horizon 2020, German Research Foundation
                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   • International sources: Bill & Melinda Gates
     Foundation; Protex.

Infrastructure and facilities: One of the unique
features of the Division of Psychology at Stirling is
our on-site Kindergarten (Figure 4). This facility
underpins our research on how cognition
develops. Within it, children have the opportunity
to participate in numerous valuable research
studies, and these provide enjoyment and
learning opportunities beyond the standard early
year’s curriculum. This facility achieved an             Figure 3: Division of Psychology
‘Excellent’ rating in the most recent Care                    research grant income
Inspectorate report (December 2018).             The
Kindergarten has been central to our research
vision in the following ways:

   • Enabling research on language and non-verbal communication (including comparative studies
     with non-human species), social learning, cognitive development, and the neural basis of
     executive function. Our research also includes comparative studies of children with autistic
     spectrum disorders and developmental delay.
   • Providing research participants for five researchers specialising in developmental psychology
     who have joined the Division in the current
     REF period. Since 2014, developmental
     psychology studies have been supported by
     grants from the Jacob Foundation, the
     European Union, the Hardiman Fund and the
     Academy of Medical Sciences. Work in the
     kindergarten is reviewed by our ethics panel,
     and robust safeguarding procedures are in
     place for working with the children.
   • Allowing interdisciplinary collaborations with
     researchers from Social Sciences, Primary
     Education and the Dementia Centre. For
     example, we have recently run an
     intergenerational project that brought people
     with dementia together with children in the            Figure 4: Psychology’s unique
     Kindergarten.                                          Kindergarten allows interdisciplinary
   • Providing a vital resource for undergraduate           research on cognitive development.
     and postgraduate research experiences.
     Hundreds of postgraduate and undergraduate students have gained valuable research skills
     and ethical insights by developing and conducting research studies with our young cohort of
     willing participants, including up to 90 students of Primary Education each year.

The range of equipment used to study aspects of development extends from highly specialised
apparatus to soft toys. We have also installed a child-specific eye-tracking suite adjacent to the
Kindergarten. For research requiring functional neuroimaging we use mobile functional near-
infrared spectroscopy equipment that enables child and infant monitoring in naturalistic settings
and can accommodate multi-modal measurement including electroencephalogram (EEG),
electromyogram (EMG) and eye-tracking. We have recently upgraded the facilities to include
digital camcorders and digital sound recording via mobile head-mounted microphones.
The Division also features the Psychological Imaging Lab. This has been designed and
equipped to promote neuroimaging research by members of the Cognition and Complex
Environments research group, and houses three 64 Channel EEG recording suites. In addition, the
recent acquisition of three mobile EEG and EMG recording systems and an fNIRs system allows

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

researchers to take their work outside the laboratory, promoting the strategic goal of increasing
focus on real-world research. Examples of research conducted using mobile equipment include
improving understanding of learning and development, spatial navigation, attention during real
world behaviour, and a variety of sport-specific applications (recording neural activity during golf
putting and shooting, funded by SportScotland, which manages Scottish elite athletes).
Our Face Lab, again within the Cognition and Complex Environments group, houses several
researchers engaged in face research. Areas of interest range from individual differences,
mechanisms of recognition and low-level visual procession – including the work that underpins the
EvoFit impact case study - to gaze perception. It also includes social perception, the perceptions
of attractiveness and mate preference. Equipped with both 2D and 3D photography suites, the lab
has dedicated image-processing facilities, including bespoke software and tools developed by our
in-house team of researchers and technicians. Having purchased a 3D camera, our staff then
developed an integrated 3D camera system. Our technical team has also designed and built a bi-
directional video system for direct full-face video recording of two people engaged in conversation.
Recent purchases have included Eyelink and Tobii eye-trackers and both Dikablis Pro and Tobii
mobile eye trackers. The lab also hosts an ESRC-funded database of face images, which are
made available to face researchers via a website (pics.stir.ac.uk). Examples of output from
research conducted in the Face Lab include findings on the importance of featural and
configurational information in facial composite recognition, identification of individuals who excel at
facial recognition (termed super-recognisers) and the discovery that state-of-the- art computer face
recognition systems mistakenly match faces of different apparent race or gender.

Additional facilities include:

   • The Perception Lab houses psychophysics equipment such as an integrated computerised
     psychophysics system (ViSaGe stimulus generators/ programmable hardware system), ultra-
     high-precision displays (Display++), high-precision photometry, Wheatstone stereoscopes,
     Augmented Reality (Microsoft Hololens) and room-scale Virtual Reality (HTC Vive Pro, Oculus
     Rift) equipment. The availability of this capacity has led to an award from the UK Government
     Office for Science on deep-learning and depth-based image segmentation.
   • The Physiology Lab houses computerised neuropsychological testing equipment CANTAB,
     treadmill for studying of physical activity, portable cardiovascular assessment apparatus that
     allows continuous assessment in ‘real-world’ environments of blood pressure, heart rate
     variability, cardiac output and peripheral resistance and cold-presser baths for studying pain
     perception.
   • The ConFace lab adds to the Division’s strength in facial research by identifying biomarkers
     of concealed recognition (via remote eye track, micro-expression detection, and mobile
     sensors for recording heart rate, skin conductance,
     and pulse and voice variation). Work here has
     identified the physical responses that occur when
     people lie about familiar faces (www.conface.org).
   • The Motor Action Lab allows researchers to
     conduct        locomotor      assessments         and
     neurostimulation, including Transcranial Direct
     Current Stimulation and Transcranial Magnetic
     Stimulation. This lab was key to the finding that
     sub-concussive changes in the brain occur as a
     result of football heading.        This resulted in
     heightened public interest in the safety of football
     heading (Figure 5).
                                                               Figure 5. Investment in the Division’s
We also provide support for researchers via a range of         Motor Action Lab since 2014 has led
external facilities, including through investment in           to high profile impact on brain health
national and international consortia:                          and concussions in sport, highlighted
                                                               in the BBC documentary ‘Alan
                                                               Shearer: Dementia, Football and Me’.
   • Living Links and the Budongo Trail facilities
                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     housed at Edinburgh Zoo. Researchers in the Behaviour and Evolution Research Group are
     members of the Scottish Primate Research Group consortium, which in turn has partnered
     with the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland to form the Living Links / Budongo research
     Consortium. Partnership in the consortium facilitates research into behaviour and cognition of
     capuchins, squirrel monkeys and chimpanzees. An example of research using these facilities
     explored action-imitation abilities in capuchin monkeys (Journal of Comparative Psychology,
     2017: tinyurl.com/ew3mtpnn).
   • We continue to play an important role in SINAPSE, a Scottish Funding Council supported
     consortium of Scottish Universities that provides reciprocal access to imaging facilities,
     including fMRI, PET and SPECT molecular imaging, as well as training and networking events
     for all imaging researchers.
   • We have a formal facilities agreement with an animal facility - the Memory and Space Lab -
     located within the Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences at the University of Edinburgh. This
     specialist facility allows a member of the Cognition group to conduct research involving single-
     unit electrophysiological recording in rats. This investment has led to funding from the BBSRC
     (two awards) and related outputs (e.g., which show, for example, that spatial navigation is
     underpinned by a representation of direction in the mammalian brain (Current Biology, 2017:
     tinyurl.com/5y59e5u6).
In addition to these facilities, we also use existing resources in innovative ways to address
research questions. For example, recent experiments using mobile EEG and eye-tracking took
place in the University Library, investigating visual attention during a task involving the search and
detection of books. Similarly, in our Kindergarten researchers often adapt simple everyday objects
as stimuli. Our researchers and technical support staff take pride in delivering solutions to
experiment requirements and we make targeted investments in facilities that are shared among
researchers
Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

In line with our core values, the Division of Psychology is highly collaborative. Since 2014,
members of the Behaviour and Evolution and Cognition and Complex Environments have
published extensively with collaborators from the UK and abroad, with 49% of our outputs
involving international co-authors, 44% including UK collaborators and 39% included colleagues in
the University of Stirling.

As described previously, the Division of Psychology is a key contributor to several of the
University’s discipline-crossing research programmes. For example, researchers in Psychology
are members of the Contextual Learning in Humans and Machines programme, which seeks to
understand the impact of adding context to computational and machine learning through neural
networks. This collaboration between Psychology, Computing Science and Finance explores the
impact that context has on decision-making related to financial investment. As a second example
the focus on collaborative projects has had produced high profile outcomes, including the first
evidence of electrophysiological and cognitive changes arising from routine heading of footballs,
which achieved the highest ever University Altmetric score of 1445 (putting it in the 99.99th
percentile of the >14 Million articles tracked; EBioMedicine, 2016: tinyurl.com/4zhx63n4). This
research was conducted by Psychology researchers in the Mobile Cognition programme together
with colleagues from the University of Stirling’s Division of Sport (UoA 24) and the Centre for
Health and Behaviour Change (UoA 3), and with the support of funding from the National Institute
for Health Research.

We also have a strong track record of cross-disciplinary research between Cognition group and
computer science via the interdisciplinary Stirling Vision and Image Processing (SVIP) group.
Members of this group combine expertise in computational and mathematical signal/image
processing, neuroscience, biological visual processing, psychology and remote sensing. Evidence
of success in this approach is the recent award of funding by the UK Defences and Security
Accelerator.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

International outlook: At Stirling we
actively encourage staff to collaborate
internationally, and provide each academic
with     an   annual,     £1,000     personal
discretionary fund that can be used to
support research visits abroad. The
locations of our international academic
collaborators are illustrated Figure 6,
restricted solely to collaborations that have
produced outputs during the REF period.
As a specific example of this, we have
partnered with colleagues at the Max            Figure 6. Locations of international collaborators
Planck Institute and UC Berkley in a            producing published outputs from 2014-2020
longitudinal study of cognition and             (504 co-authors, in 129 locations, in 30 countries,
behaviour and related neural events             including >20 US states).
measured through fMRI (Psychological
Science, 2017: tinyurl.com/48pfhbaf).
National Collaborations: Closer to home, we have collaborations with over 60 institutions in the
UK, as illustrated in Figure 7, which evidences our reach across UK academic institutions. The
figure also highlights non-academic collaborators underpinning our impact activity, for example:

   •   Work in collaboration with the Scottish Prison Service on the Paws for Progress initiative
       to monitor the psychological and behavioural effects on offenders who participate in an
       assistance dog training programme. Members of Behaviour and Evolution provide their
       expertise in human-animal interaction and animal welfare, in academic collaboration with
       the School of Applied Social Science, who provide expertise in criminal justice and offender
       rehabilitation (International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 2017:
       tinyurl.com/969fbtkk).
   •   Membership of the Scottish Primate Research Group, which includes six Principal
       Investigators from the University of Stirling. This group focuses on non-invasive studies of
       the natural behaviour, mentality and ecology of primates, with the aim of developing
       evidence-based welfare and conservation policies.
Examples of key impacts resulting from our research include:

   •   Changes in the European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals used in
       Experimental and other scientific purposes (ETS 123), and an associated directive.
       Commercial researchers involved in animal experimentation have welcomed the clear,
       evidence-based recommendations on animal welfare. For example, the Director of Policy
       and Outreach at the NC3Rs stated “the positive welfare impact of this research by Buchanan-
       Smith and colleagues is thus far-reaching.”




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   Promotion of animal welfare is also
       supported by conducting seminars and
       workshops, and providing online
       resources to promote consideration of
       animal     needs      throughout     their
       lifespan. For example, members of the
       Behaviour and Evolution group have
       produced            knowledge-exchange
       websites including marmosetcare.com
       and 247animalwelfare.eu promote
       welfare     of     animals    in   zoos,
       laboratories and dog shelters. With                = Academic
       NC3Rs funding, they also developed a
       teaching platform under the Refining               = Business
       Dog              Care             project          = Government
       (refiningdogcare.com).
                                                          = Prisons
   •   The Stirling Human Animal Interaction
       Research (SHAIR) group, established                = Hospitals
       during this assessment period, has
       advanced understanding of how
       humans and animals interact, and
       developed new methodologies to
       evaluate interactions and promote
       positive outcomes. The flagship
       project is Paws for Progress, a                Figure 7. Location and nature of
       programme for young male offenders             collaborations in this assessment period.
       involving dog training.
   •   A member of the Behaviour and
       Evolution group updated the NC3Rs guidelines leading to improvements in the housing
       and care of non-human primates (NHP) at UK universities and other publicly funded
       laboratories internationally. Requirements include providing increased space for animals,
       social housing and daily foraging opportunities – all of which are critical for NHP welfare.
   •   We impact on social policy at local and national levels, advising local education authority
       Quality Improvement Offices and Education Scotland policy makers.
   •   A member of the Cognition group advised Scottish MSPs and charity leaders on the impact
       of alcohol in adolescence, particularly the implications of blackouts in light of shift towards
       binge-drinking culture. Work from the Cognition group has led to consideration of the
       policies in relation to university ‘freshers’, to mitigate the effects of heavy marketing by
       alcohol retailers.
   •   Another member of the Cognition group advised the Scottish Parliament Justice Sub-
       Committee on Policing on how Police Scotland uses Facial Recognition technology. Our
       expertise contributed to an official report and a roadmap for future incorporation of live
       facial recognition technology.
   •   Ongoing research into facial composite imaging has resulted in the spinning out of EvoFIT,
       a suspect imaging and identification application in use by police forces and security
       organisations worldwide. The commercialisation of EvoFIT has been promoted in
       partnership with researchers at the University of Central Lancashire.
  •
We are also regularly active in public engagement activities:

   •   We participate regularly in outreach events at the Glasgow Science Centre, at the
       Edinburgh Science Festival, at Living Links in the Edinburgh Zoo, and at the Dundee
       Science Centre.
   •   We encouraged participation and recruit research participants at outreach events, including
       regular events at Edinburgh Zoo.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   In order to engage with the widest audience possible, we have taken part in Bright Club
       comedy nights, ScienceGrrl, Pint of Science and Soapbox Science public engagement
       events.

We have also engaged in learned events:

   •   Events promoting animal welfare, including keynote addresses at the International
       Conference on Environmental Enrichment in Japan (2019), the inaugural meeting of the
       Great Ape Welfare Group and The Laboratory Animal Veterinarian Association (2018) and
       an invited presentation to the Animal in Science Committee of the Home Office in 2017.
       Other invited talks include one at the Primate Society of Great Britain’s 50th anniversary
       meeting (2017).
   •   Recent plenary addresses have been delivered at the inaugural conference of the Cultural
       Evolution Society (2017) and the International Society for Human Ethology (2019), at the
       International Society for the Study of Women’s Sexual Health (2018) and the Contraceptive
       Conundrum Conference (2015), and at the Royal Institute of Navigation International
       Conference (2019).
   •   Our researchers are regularly invited as speakers at international conferences including
       meetings in Argentina, Canada, Denmark, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, South
       Korea and the United States.

We recognise the vital role played by participation in the peer review process in upholding high
standards of scientific endeavour, and therefore contribute to reviews of funding agencies and
other scientific bodies, including:

   •   BBSRC Animal Sciences Grant Review Board member (Donaldson; Dudchenko)
   •   European Commission Horizons 2020 review and award panels (Ietswaart)
   •   QAA Benchmark review group member (Donaldson)
   •   Founder member of the BPS Impact review group (Donaldson)
   •   Research Assessor for the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland (Caldwell,
       Donaldson)
   •   Royal Zoological Society of Scotland member of Animal Welfare group (Buchanan-Smith)
   •   Living Links Executive Board member (Caldwell, Buchanan-Smith)
   •   Primate Society of Great Britain Captive Care Working Party member (Buchanan-Smith)
   •   IUCN Species Survival Commission Primate Group member (Buchanan-Smith)
   •   Primate Society of Great Britain Research Working Party member (Kessler)

Our research staff conduct editorial roles at numerous peer-reviewed publications, including:
   • Applied Cognitive Psychology and Network: Computation In Neural Systems, Editorial
       board member (Hancock)
   • American Journal of Primatology, Editorial board member (Vick)
   • Biology Letters, Editorial board member (Caldwell)
   • Evolutionary Psychology, Associate Editor (Caldwell)
   • Autism in Adulthood, Deputy Editor (Cage)
   • Frontiers in Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology, Associate Editor (Kourtis)
   • Frontiers in Psychology, Associate Editor (Gheorghiu)
   • Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, Associate Editor (Ietswaart)
   • Neotropical Primates, Editorial board member (Buchanan-Smith)
   • Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B, Guest Editor (Roberts)
   • European Journal of Neuroscience, Guest Editor (Keitel)
   • Primates, Associate Editor (P. Lee)

Our staff are office holders of learned societies and scientific institutions, including:
   • International Society for Human Ethology, current president, past vice-president (Roberts)

                                                                                        Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   European Science Foundation's College of Expert Reviewers, invited member (Roberts)
   •   Association of Heads of Psychology Departments, Chair (Donaldson)
   •   Scottish & NI Hub of Vitae, steering committee member (Donaldson)
   •   Amboseli Elephant Research Project, Director of Science (P. Lee)
   •   Royal Society of Edinburgh's Young Academy of Scotland, member (Caldwell)
   •   Royal Society of Edinburgh, Fellow (Watt)
   •   British Neuropsychological Society (Ietswaart)
Other awards and fellowships for our staff have included:
   • Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Bobak)
   • Primate Society of Great Britain Osman Hill medal (Buchanan-Smith)
   • The Council for Science and Animal Welfare award from AstraZeneca (Buchanan-Smith)
   • British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (Roberts)
We have hosted International scientific events, including:
  • Royal Society Theo Murphy International Scientific Meeting on Human Chemical
      Communication, Organiser, 2019 (Roberts)
  • 23rd Biennial Congress of International Society for Human, Host, 2016 (Roberts)

Conclusion: As the evidence above indicates, the Division of Psychology’s research reaches a
wide range of beneficiaries, ranging from offenders to law-enforcement organisations, from robust
athletes to those in poor health, from new-borns and infants to students of all ages, and from
animals in captivity to custodians of wildlife. What makes Stirling distinct – our expertise in facial
recognition research, cumulative culture task development and mobile cognition – produces a
recognised contribution to the research base both in the UK and internationally. This includes not
only outputs, but also leadership of scientific societies, organisation of international meetings and
participation in editorial boards and grant panels. Going forward, the Division’s strategy is to
develop our early- and mid-career staff and enhance strengths in childhood development, in
interactions between humans, animals, and robots, and in brain-mobility relationships. In this way,
the Division of Psychology will continue to deliver significant, tangible contributions to the field and
to society.




                                                                                               Page 17
