Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: A4 Psychology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research structure
 The Unit consists of 28.9FTE in the Department of Psychology. The Department has a broad
 interdisciplinary collaboration network within and beyond the University. It is divided into three
 research groups: Behavioural Science, Life-span Health & Wellbeing, and Language & Learning.
 The group structure facilitates vibrant and sustainable research, spanning from basic science to
 applied research with far-reaching, real-world impact.

 Research objectives set in REF2014
 During the REF2014 period, Warwick Psychology set the following objectives:

 Objective 1: to develop each of our (newly formed) three Research Groups so that they are well
 established and internationally renowned in their respective areas, while continuing to improve
 upon our established reputation for high quality, theoretically motivated research;
 Objective 2: to explore and develop real-world applications and impact of our basic research;
 Objective 3: to develop the interdisciplinary links of each group, both within the University and
 beyond.

 Below we describe how each Group has met the three objectives, by creating research synergy
 within the Group and across the University and beyond, and by engaging with non-academic
 stakeholders.

 (1) The Behavioural Science Group carries out basic research on behavioural science (e.g.,
 judgement and decision making) and applies basic research to human welfare, risk-related
 decisions, consumer psychology, legal contexts, and health related behaviours. This group is led
 by Brown and consists of 9.1 FTE (Professors Brown, Hills, Sanborn, Ludvig and Watson;
 Reader Wade; Associate Professors Kunar, Walasek; Assistant Professors Konstantinidis;
 Independent Research Fellow, Mason).

 Objective 1 (Internationally leading theoretically motivated research).
        The Group conducts synergistic activities to create a dynamic research culture. Those
 who work on judgement and decision making (Brown, Sanborn, Ludvig, Konstanitinids and
 Walasek), for example, hold weekly joint lab meetings that have fostered novel collaborations
 among labs (e.g., Walasek and Brown collaborate on people's expectation of future wellbeing).
 The Group has conducted influential basic research, and their research is funded by major
 grants. For example, Brown was awarded an ERC Advanced Grant on well-being and an ESRC
 Large Grant (co-I) on decision making. Sanborn was awarded an ERC Consolidator grant on
 inferences on probability.

 Objective 2 (Facilitating societal impact)
       The Group has developed numerous cross-departmental initiatives with significant impact.
 Most notably, the Group has developed strong connections with Warwick Manufacturing Group,
 which is an applied engineering department with well-established collaborative ties to the public
 and private sectors. Walasek is part of a major consortium grant on mental health in the
 workplace from Midlands Engine ("Mental Health and Productivity Pilot"), which involves West

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Midlands Combined Authority, mental health charity Mind, and Public Health England. Watson
 held an EPSRC grant with Warwick’s Department of Computer Science and Jaguar Land Rover
 to study how people perceive autonomous vehicles. See Section 4 for further information.

 Objective 3 (Interdisciplinary research)
        The Group leads a number of cross-departmental and cross-institutional research
 networks. Along with Warwick Business School and Economics, this Group leads a cross-
 departmental seminar series, DR@W (“Decision Research @ Warwick”) and one of the
 University’s strategic research foci, Behaviour, Brain, & Society Global Research Priority (REF5a
 2.9.1). It also organised a reading group on morality, jointly with Warwick Business School (e.g.,
 Melis, who is now at UCL) and the philosophy department. This enabled an ESRC research
 grant on cooperation in humans and chimpanzee (Ludvig, as the co-I, and Melis, as the PI). It
 also led to an ESRC research grant on macroeconomics (Sanborn, co-I) with Warwick Business
 School. The Group also played a key role in establishing the University-wide Centre for
 Operational Police Research (Wade as co-director). This Centre links 30 Warwick researchers
 spanning nine academic departments. In one interdisciplinary project, Wade and collaborators in
 Law and the Business School evaluated the role of forensic property marking in burglary
 prevention and public confidence in policing (funded by the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account).
        The Group obtained major funding to create infrastructure for interdisciplinary research.
 First, Hills as the PI obtained funding for the Leverhulme Bridges Doctoral Programme. PhD
 students in this Programme have one supervisor in social sciences (including Psychology) and
 the other in the mathematical sciences (e.g., Statistics, Mathematics). Second, Brown (as a co-
 I) obtained a Large Grant from ESRC for the Network for Interdisciplinary Behavioural Science
 with collaborators in Nottingham and East Anglia. This network links economics, business,
 computer science, mathematics, and psychology, and it developed and tested models of
 behavioural change. Third, Walasek investigated technology-assisted interventions for reducing
 exposure to indoor pollution in collaboration with chemists, geographers, and biomedical
 scientists in a project on how to protect vulnerable individuals from air pollution (NERC funded).
 This was based on his expertise on behavioural change and nudging.

 (2) The Lifespan Health & Wellbeing Group investigates physical and mental health, and
 developmental adaptations across the lifespan. The Group is an international leader in research
 on longitudinal cohort studies of long-term impact of bullying and premature birth, cognitive
 ageing, sleep, chronic pain, psychological impact of natural/human-made disasters, and
 psychology of religion. Wolke leads this group which consists of 12.1 FTE: Professors
 Goodwin, Maylor, Realo, Tresilian and Wolke; Readers Tang, MacCallum, and
 Schlaghecken; Associate Professors Gummerum, Preston, Lemola, and von Mühlenen;
 Assistant Professor Lee.

 Objective 1 (Internationally leading theoretically motivated research)
        The Group has been highly successful in conducting influential research, funded by major
 grants. For example, Wolke (as a PI) obtained a major Horizon 2020 consortium grant that
 oversees a comprehensive programme of European longitudinal cohort studies on pre-term and
 low-birth weight babies.

 Objective 2 (Facilitating societal impact)
        Much of the Group’s research has an applied orientation, and collaboration within the
 Group has facilitated dissemination and impact. One outcome of this research networking
 mechanism is a project exploring “Student Mental Health and Resilience in Transition”, in which
 five academic staff (Lemola, Wolke, Tang, Realo, von Muhlenen) and three PhD students

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborated. This study longitudinally monitored lifestyle and wellbeing of 600 students in
 Warwick during their first year and received the University’s award for “Outstanding Team”
 (University Awards, 2018). Section 4 describes further engagement with non-academic partners
 outside of the University.

 Objective 3 (Interdisciplinary research)
        Due to its applied orientation, much of this Group’s research is highly interdisciplinary. The
 Group helps lead the University’s Mental Health theme of the Health Global Research Priority
 (REF5a 2.9.1) in collaboration with the Medical School.
        There are many examples of interdisciplinary collaboration. Wolke's Horizon 2020 grant
 on longitudinal cohort studies of pre-term and low birth-weight babies includes paediatricians,
 statisticians, neurologists, and neuroscientists. Tang’s research on chronic pain and sleep
 includes a large collaborative network in pain medicine, sleep medicine, rheumatology,
 neurology, general practice, dentistry, neuroscience, psychiatry, nursing, statistics, and
 engineering. Von Mühlenen collaborated with computer scientists to investigate new ways to
 stop caller ID spoofing (EPSRC funded). This work is based on his expertise in user experience
 research and experimental methods. Realo investigated the genetics of personality traits, as
 well as the complex relationships among personality, health, and subjective wellbeing. This
 involves researchers from neurology, environmental health, genetic and psychiatric
 epidemiology, and molecular human genetics.

 (3) The Language & Learning Group studies language and communication in adults, children,
 and animals. The Group conducts cutting-edge research on language and gesture development
 in children, adult language learning, speech-accompanying gestures, visual word recognition,
 and animal communication. This Group is led by Kita and consists of 7.7 FTE (Professors Kita
 and Hills; Associate Professors Adelman, Messenger, Féher, and Townsend; Assistant
 Professors McGillion, Aussems, and Lemeira).

 Objective 1 (Internationally leading theoretically motivated research)
        The Group's research was supported by a broad range of external grants. Messenger
 was PI on an ESRC grant, and two Leverhulme Research Grants on grammatical processing in
 children. Adelman was PI on a Leverhulme Research Grant to develop a computational model
 of word processing. Kita's research on infant pointing gesture was supported by a Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship. Townsend holds a large research fellowship (Swiss National Foundation
 Research Professorship) to investigate animal communication.

 Objective 2 (Facilitating societal impact)
       The Group conducted research with substantial impact and public engagement. For
 example, the Group's research on animal communication has been covered by mainstream
 media (e.g., Lameira featured in BBC, New York Times, National Geographic). McGillion (UKRI
 funded) and Aussems are conducting two separate projects on how Covid-19 related home-
 schooling and social distancing influence child development. See Section 4 for more information
 about engagement with non-academic partners.

 Objective 3 (Interdisciplinary research)
        The Group regularly hosted interdisciplinary research events, including a bi-weekly
 seminar and an annual research away-day on language and communication. These events were
 attended by researchers from Philosophy, Warwick Business School, and Applied Linguistics,
 and led to significant interdisciplinary collaboration. For example, The Group hosted a
 prestigious grant that straddles philosophy and psychology (UKRI Future Leader Fellowship with

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moore (PI) in the Department of Philosophy). Messenger holds a research grant from the
 Leverhulme Trust on motivation in second language learning as the PI, with a Co-I in the Centre
 for Applied Linguistics.
        Townsend and Lameira collaborated closely with biologists in their field-work research
 on animal communication. Townsend conducts comparative studies of vocal communication in
 humans, birds and chimpanzees (funded by Swiss National Foundation, British Academy).
 Lameira was recently awarded a UKRI Future Leader Fellowship (commencing 2021) to
 investigate evolutionary origins of speech, based on orangutan vocalisation.

 Future Plans for the next REF period
          The Department aims to further develop its vibrant and sustainable research environment
 that delivers world-leading research. In 2017, the University approved the Department's strategic
 plan up to 2025. In this plan, we will further develop the three research groups with the following
 priorities: 1) To strengthen the Department's internationally recognised expertise in the fields of
 cognitive psychology and health across the lifespan by providing the facilities required for high-
 quality experimental, longitudinal and data science research. 2) To develop collaborative,
 interdisciplinary research projects across departments and universities (e.g., in areas such as
 mental health, artificial intelligence and data science). 3) To work closely with a wider group of
 stakeholders in government, industry, and the third sector to provide impactful interventions and
 knowledge transfer, and to disseminate research findings to the general public.
          The following activities have laid the groundwork for achieving these objectives.

 1) Internationally leading research on cognitive psychology and health across the lifespan
         We encouraged junior academics to apply for large long-term funding to create
 sustainable excellence in these areas. As mentioned above, Lameira has been awarded a UKRI
 Future Leader Fellowship to start in 2021.
          The Department established a link with a new international centre of excellence launched
 in 2020. Townsend is part of a Swiss research consortium with major long-term (seven years in
 the first instance) Swiss government funding ("National Centre for Competence in Research") on
 language development and evolution. Townsend holds posts at both Warwick and the University
 of Zurich (one of three Swiss universities to host the National Centre), and he will continue to
 bridge the research on language evolution and development at Warwick (Lameria, Aussems,
 Feher, Kita, McGillion, Messenger) with Swiss researchers to create research synergy.

 2) Interdisciplinary research with societal impact
        The Department has collaborations in multiple disciplines to build research with societal
 impact. As noted above, Wade co-directs the cross-faculty network, the Centre for Operational
 Police Research. The collaboration in this Centre led to an ESRC Centre Grant application,
 "Centre for Next Generation Policing" (Wade, co-I), which united Psychology, Law, Politics &
 International Studies, Computer Science, Warwick Manufacturing Group, and the Centre for
 Interdisciplinary Methodology. It also involved numerous non-academic stakeholders: West
 Midlands Police HQ, Ada Lovelace Institute, College of Policing, and JUSTICE (human rights
 organisation for legal professionals). This project aimed to find the best way for the police to use
 the latest information technology such as AI in a responsible and fair way.
        As mentioned above, the Behavioural Science group led one of the University’s strategic
 research foci, Behaviour, Brain, & Society Global Research Priority (REF5a 2.9.1). In 2019, this
 Research Priority was restructured to include members from a broader set of departments:
 Statistics, Politics & International Studies, History, in addition to Psychology, Business School
 and Economics. This expansion was motivated by the interdisciplinary Leverhulme Bridges
 Doctoral Programme (see above).

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Enabling impact
 The Department has several strategies to foster a culture of developing impact. The Department
 recognises four stages of impact development and uses appropriate interventions at each stage.
 In addition, the Department was agile in freeing up academics' time whenever opportunities or
 urgent need for impact activities arose.

 Stage 1) Raising awareness & sharing good practice
 Our strategy is to create regular opportunities to remind all academic staff of impact, and to
 inspire them with impact success stories.

 - Our impact agenda was presented regularly at all-staff meetings.
 - The University's Impact Team was physically present in the Department one day per week to
 raise awareness, respond to queries, facilitate impact events, and assist with the recording and
 evaluating of impact activities.
 - The annual Departmental Research Away Day included presentations of impact success
 stories to inspire all academic staff to engage in impact and to share good practice.

 Stage 2) Networking with non-academic partners
 Our strategy is to foster sustained two-way engagement between academics and diverse groups
 of end-users.

 - The Department hosted “impact seminars” once a term and welcomed speakers from
 charitable organisations, industry, and the military (e.g., Kidscape (challenging bullying), Royal
 Military Academy Sandhurst, Google DeepMind, and ASSIST Trauma Care (working with those
 bereaved by homicide).
 - The Department supported academics in organising networking events. Various University
 funds were used for different purposes. Kita and Aussems held a workshop on “Gesture and
 Technology”, which was attended by Jaguar Land Rover. This event explored how gestural
 communication can be applied in engineering contexts (funded by Warwick's Institute for
 Advanced Study, REF5a 2.9.2). Sanborn held a dissemination event for representatives from
 the European Commission, which covered decision making science for behaviour change
 interventions (funded by ESRC Impact Acceleration Account funds).
 - For more targeted one-to-one dissemination with commercial potential, Warwick Ventures, the
 commercialisation arm of the University (REF5a 2.8) was involved. Using this mechanism,
 Watson and Kunar promoted their road-safety training demonstration to police departments
 across the UK.

 Stage 3) Collaboration with non-academic partners
 When academics identified potential non-academic partners, the Department facilitated
 collaboration through different means.

 - To capture arising opportunities, the Department provided departmental "quick-access" Impact
 funds. Academics took advantage of opportunities for which University-level funds would have
 been too slow. For instance, using this fund, Wade travelled to London to meet international
 arbitration professionals as part of the groundwork for her Impact Case Study.
 - To enable more extensive engagement, Warwick Impact Fund (funded by various RC Impact
 Acceleration Accounts) was frequently used. Using this fund, for instance, Wade co-produced
 research and a new policy report with the International Chamber of Commerce (see her Impact
 Case Study) on improving the reliability of fact witness evidence in international business

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disputes. Wade gave a keynote presentation at an ICC Commission meeting in Rome to 1000
 international arbitration experts from across the world and attended four ICC meetings in Paris
 during her 5-year term as a scientific advisor to the ICC International Court of Arbitration.
 - The Department also used external funds to extensively engage with non-academic users.
 Stewart (now at Warwick Business School) used an ESRC research grant and an ESRC Large
 Grant to conduct crucial activities for his Impact Case Study. He investigated credit card
 payment patterns using real transaction data provided by UK Finance (the UK credit card
 industry body) and Argus (a data aggregation company). Based on the results, he shaped the
 Financial Conduct Authority's policy on credit cards.

 Stage 4) Documenting the expanding impact horizon
 Once a solid case for impact was realised, the Department monitored and documented how the
 impact grew.

 - Wolke developed a parental questionnaire for cognitive screening for two-year olds, the
 PARCA-R. This is now used in broad clinical settings in multiple countries (see Wolke’s Impact
 Case Study). Due to Covid-19, more countries are adopting PARCA-R. The Swiss organisation
 for monitoring infant development (Neonatal Network) just switched from a face-to-face
 assessment (e.g., Bayley) to PARCA-R. Wolke recently obtained ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Account funding to determine which countries have adapted PARCA-R due to Covid-19.

 Impact strategy management
        Wade (Impact Director) managed the strategy to maximise impact, in collaboration with
 the University's Impact Team. She encouraged members of the Department to think about the
 impact of their research, and guided them to develop impact through the above-mentioned
 stages. She headed the Impact Committee, which reported to the Research Committee.

 Open and ethical research
 Open research:
 - The funds administered by the University Library support open access publishing and
 supplement Department members’ open access publications where this is not automatically
 covered (e.g., via UKRI).
 - The Department complies with the Concordat on Open Research Data.
 - Staff individually provide great examples of open science, which created the culture of valuing
 open science practice. For example, von Mühlenen, Ludvig and Wade each participated in
 separate multi-lab pre-registered replication studies.
 - The Department organised a workshop on open science practice by Prof. Steve Lindsay (Univ.
 of Victoria). Prof. Lindsay was the Editor-in-Chief for Psychological Science and a key promotor
 of open science practices. The workshop was available to all members of University of Warwick
 and also the Midlands Graduate School ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership, and attracted 32
 researchers from social sciences departments in Warwick, Birmingham, and Loughborough.
 - The Department encouraged those who took part in the Open Science workshops/training to
 report back key points to the department in internal seminars (e.g., by a postdoc, Siposova, in
 2020). Additionally, a PhD-student (Kang) led a reading group on Open Science practice.

 Ethical research:
 The University mandates research integrity, ethics, and GDPR training for all staff.
 The University's Research and Impact Services supported legal ethical requirements and cost
 implications. Members of the Department played a key role in the Humanities and Social


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sciences Ethics Committee. MacCallum and Schlaghecken have chaired the Committee. Also,
 Psychology PhD students (e.g., Barker) served as members.
 2. People

 Staffing and recruitment strategy and staff development
 The Department has the following strategies to sustainably meet the three research objectives
 listed in Section 1.

 1) Sustainability of excellence: We maintain a good balance of seniority to ensure sustainable
 growth into the future. All academic staff have a long-term contract: assistant professors,
 associate professors, readers, and full professors have a permanent contract (assistant
 professors' contracts are subject to successful completion of an up to five-year probation period).
 2) Synergy effects for vibrant research: We strengthen the research themes of the three
 Research Groups by clustering researchers who work on related research questions with
 complementary approaches. This maximises the vibrancy of research. When recruiting new
 academic staff, one key criterion is that the candidate would complement and strengthen the
 existing research in one of the Research Groups.
 3) Balancing basic research and societal impact potential: We maintain a good balance
 between basic and applied research within the Department.
 4) Equality and Diversity: We promote equality and diversity in the Department. See below for
 more details.

 New hires during the REF period
 The Department recruited 14 new REF-eligible researchers, a large majority of which were
 offered long-term contracts (1 Professor, 3 Associate Professors, 10 Assistant Professors and 1
 Early Career Researcher on a three-year fellowship; 50% male, 50% female). They were hired
 evenly over the REF period. We appointed four staff in the Behavioural Science Group, six in the
 Lifespan Health & Wellbeing Group, and four in the Language & Learning Group. As a result,
 each Group has a spread of ranks from assistant professor to full professor, ensuring that our
 Research Groups develop in a sustainable way. The new hires complemented key strategic
 strengths of the Research Groups: for example, decision making (Walasek, Konstantinidis,
 Mason) in the Behavioural Science Group, mental health (Goodwin, Lemola, Lee) in the
 Lifespan Health & Wellbeing Group, language development (Aussems, McGillion) and
 comparative psychology (Townsend, Féher, Lameria) in the Language & Learning Group.

 Staff development
 PDRAs:
 The Department supported PDRAs to develop their career-relevant skills and to create a
 network beyond the labs they work in.
    - The Department provided each PDRA with a senior academic mentor.
    - The Department held career development workshops (e.g., job talk training by recently
        hired Assistant Professors).
    - Warwick's Institute for Advanced Study (REF5a 2.9.2) provides PDRAs with support for
        application to independent fellowships and also with interdisciplinary network
        opportunities.
    - The Department offered opportunities to gain teaching experience (e.g., thesis
        supervision, running workshops).




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   The Department convened an “Ask the Editor” workshop with Prof. Steve Lindsay, who
        was the current Editor-in-Chief of Psychological Science. The seminar provided
        participants with advice on publishing and reviewing in psychology journals.
    -   The Department convened a support group for BAME early career researchers (see
        "Equality and diversity" below).
    -   Postdoc achievements were celebrated by Science Faculty's postdoctoral publication
        prize (Psychology winners in 2018, 2019).
    -   The success of our initiatives can also be illustrated by the success by our independent
        research fellow (Mason) in securing further funding (ESRC New Investigator Grant).

 Academic Staff:
 The Department supported junior academics to establish their labs and become a PI in major
 grants, and supported all academic staff to find substantial time for research and to find
 opportunity for developing various skills useful for research.
    - For Assistant Professors, the leader of each Research Group served as the mentor. The
         Head of the Department held a probation meeting with junior academic staff once a year
         to guide their development. The Director of Research met junior academic staff twice a
         year to guide them through funding applications and establishment of their labs.
    - The success of our support for junior academics is illustrated by the fact that our
         assistant professors have obtained major funding: Lameria with UKRI Future Leader
         Fellowship (to start in 2021), Messenger (now an associate professor) with an ESRC
         research grant and two Leverhulme Trust research grants.
    - A detailed workload model ensured staff research time is protected. The workload model
         included allocations for funded hours for grants, pursuing impact, and supervising PhD
         students. Assistant Professors on probation received reduced hours for teaching and
         admin (about 57% of senior academics). The workload model typically correlated closely
         (> .90) with staff self-reports via Time Analysis Survey returns.
    - All staff were entitled to apply for one term of research leave for every 6 terms of service
         (Adleman, Brown, Goodwin, Hills, Kita, Ludvig, Messenger, Schlaghecken,
         Sanborn, Wade, and Wolke were given leave during the REF period).
    - The University's Organisational Development team held training events, including grant-
         writing workshops, networking events, career development sessions, and leadership and
         management sessions.
    - The success of these initiatives can be illustrated by the fact that a number of staff hired
         during the REF period received internal promotions (Realo to Professor; Lemola to
         Reader; Féher and Townsend to Associate Professor).

 Research students:
 The Department substantially increased the PGR community to create a more vibrant research
 environment. To support our research strategy, the majority of Departmental PhD studentships
 were assigned to new staff (who themselves were recruited in areas of our strategic focus); the
 remaining studentships were put into a department-wide competition.

 The Department has made 44.95 REF-eligible PhD awards since REF2014. An increase of more
 than 164% from 17 completions during the REF2014 period.

 The Department attracted 27 non-departmental studentships. As a member of the ESRC DTP
 Midlands Graduate School (through the REF period), 12 studentships were awarded to the
 Department. The Department leads the Leverhulme Bridges Doctoral Training Programme
 (Hills), which awarded 5 studentships to the Department. The remaining sources of non-

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 departmental studentships were the Leverhulme Trust (3), EPSRC-Jaguar Land Rover (1),
 Government sponsorship (4), and EU (1).

 The Department supported PGR students to develop career-relevant skills and a professional
 network, with equality and diversity in mind.

    -   PGR students met with their supervisors at least once a month, typically 1-2 times per
        week.
    -   PGR students were allocated a mentor who provided general guidance and advice.
    -   The Research Student Skills Programme equipped all Warwick PGR students with the
        skills, knowledge and attributes to enable them to thrive as an independent researcher.
        All PGR students engaged with at least ten days professional development per year.
    -   The Department convened the “Ask the Editor” workshop with Prof. Steve Lindsay (see
        above).
    -   We organised annual postgraduate research conferences, in which PhD students can
        obtain feedback from a broad expert audience and broaden their network.
    -   The Department operated a maternity-leave scheme for its own funded PGR students
        (similar to that for UKRI students), a policy later adopted by the University.
    -   The Department convened a support group for BAME early career researchers (see
        "Equality and diversity" below).
    -   To support PGR students after thesis submission, the Department encouraged students
        to apply for Early Career Fellowships from the Warwick's Institute for Advanced Study
        (REF5a 2.9.2), which provides up to 9 months of training and funding. 12 Psychology
        students were awarded these competitive fellowships.
    -   The Faculty of Science, Engineering & Medicine ran the best thesis prize to celebrate
        excellent work (Psychology winners in 2017, 2019).


 Equality and diversity
 The Department developed a culture where actions related to equality and diversity issues are
 valued. Out of 28.9 FTE of the submitted staff, 51% are female and 49% are male. 9% are
 BAME. The Department's research is led by a diverse leadership team: Director of Research (a
 BAME male), Deputy Director of Research (a white male), and the chair of the Impact
 Committee (a white female). Equality and diversity training was mandatory for staff seeking
 research ethics approval at the University level. When inviting external speakers for the
 Departmental seminar, staff were reminded that diversity of gender and race/ethnicity was
 important.

 REF submission
 We selected outputs through a process that took equality and diversity seriously. Each eligible
 staff member self-nominated candidate publications. Each article was rated by the departmental
 REF Reading Group, consisting of three female and three male senior academics, including one
 BAME member. The ratings from the REF Reading Group and the external reviewers (one male,
 one female) were averaged to obtain the score for each candidate article.

 Once we had a provisional list of outputs to be submitted, we re-evaluated borderline papers for
 submission with equality and diversity in mind. For the female and BAME staff who had only one
 output in the provisional list, we went through all of their self-nominated papers to check if they
 had any promising unselected papers. These promising papers and white males' outputs just
 above the cut-off point were re-evaluated by three members of the REF Reading Group (two

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 females and one male, including one BAME). This process increased female representation in
 the final selection. We believe that it also raised the overall quality of selected outputs.

 Gender equality
 Following the successful renewal of its Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2016, the Department
 made a number of commitments to enhance gender equality, including cover for maternity leave
 and research fellowships for those who return from maternity leave (see below on "Warwick
 Academic Returner Fellowship").

 The Department formed a new Athena Swan committee in 2019. The committee organized a
 networking event with speakers from both within (Prof. Seers from Warwick Medical School,
 which has a Silver award) and outside the University (Prof. McCormack from Queen’s University
 Belfast, which has a Gold award) to develop its strategies for improving gender equality. The
 Department will apply for the Silver Award in 2021.

 The Department successfully negotiated so that the University provided maternity leave for
 University-funded PhD students in Psychology, in line with research council provision. This
 initiative by the Department led to the University-wide policy change to allow maternity leave for
 University-funded PhD students.

 Those taking maternity or parental leave were supported in applying for the Warwick Academic
 Returners Fellowship that released staff from teaching and administrative duties for a period of
 time equal to the amount of maternity or alternative parental leave taken. Tang and Kunar took
 advantage of this scheme. This Fellowship enabled Tang's successful MRC research grant
 application.

 Race equality
 The Director of Research (BAME, as noted earlier) convened a support group for BAME early
 career researchers (MSc and PhD students, postdocs) twice a term. The meeting topics
 included career development strategies (e.g., job application tips, how to choose a journal to
 publish), and discussions with role models (BAME academics).

 Departmental committees
 To embed equality and diversity within departmental culture, we always included equality and
 diversity as a standing item on agendas of key meetings (e.g., Management Committee,
 Departmental Council).

 Welfare and Communications Committee reported key Equality and Diversity statistics (e.g.,
 staff survey outcomes) to the Department. The committee reviewed our workload model in the
 light of gender/race-ethnicity and re-designated roles where necessary to try to ensure
 gender/race-ethnicity equality in workload.

 The membership of the three key committees (Management Committee, Research Committee,
 and Undergraduate Committee) always included male and female representation, and BAME
 representation. Key departmental and faculty positions were held by a BAME staff member
 (Director of Research and Leader of Language & Learning Group, Director of Postgraduate
 Research Programmes) and a female staff member (Deputy Head of Department, Director of
 Postgraduate Research Programmes, Chair of Humanities and Social Sciences Research Ethics
 Committee, Director of Impact, and Deputy Faculty Chair).


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Departmental Search Committee identified potential female and BAME candidates for
 senior role recruitment. Following a review from our Welfare and Communications Committee,
 we adopted a new protocol to ensure all job advertisements were consistent with best practice in
 encouraging diversity in our applications. We ensured mixed gender shortlisting and panel
 membership for all academic posts. We included a BAME member in shortlisting and panel
 membership most of the time. We aimed to ensure equality principles in PGR student selection
 by having mixed gender interview panels for studentships.

 Promotion and development
 Senior male and female promotion champions provide confidential feedback on the promotion
 process to candidates interested in applying. The Research Group leaders actively encouraged
 applications from all members of their group. PGR students also had mixed gender review
 boards for their Annual Reviews.

 Workload adjustment
 The Department offered support with care arrangements via compassionate leave and workload
 adjustments or cover. Staff returning from ill health met with HR and the Head of Department,
 with further support from Occupational Health, and developed a phased return to work. Disability
 was recognised through flexible working arrangements and alterations in probationary period.
 Flexible working was supported by family-friendly scheduling of departmental meetings during
 school hours (9am–3pm).
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 The Department's research income per FTE per annum increased by 65% from the REF2014
 period, from £17.6K/FTE/year in REF2014 (when FTE is calculated in the same way as
 REF2021) to £29.1K/FTE/year in REF2021. The Department obtained funding from a wide
 range of funders (the number of awards in parentheses).

 - UK funders: ESRC (11), MRC(3), EPSRC (3), AHRC (1), Leverhulme Trust (6), Royal Society
 (1), British Academy (2), Experimental Psychology Society (5), Alan Turing Institute (3), NIHR
 (2), NHS (3), MoD (1)
 - Regional funder:
 Midlands Engine (2)
 - European funders:
 ERC (2), Horizon 2020 (1), German Ministry (3), and Swiss National Science Foundation (1)
 - Industry:
 Jaguar Land Rover, joint funding with EPSRC (1), BAE (1) Which? (magazine) (1)

 Notable major awards include an ERC Consolidator Grant (Sanborn, £1.5M), an ERC Advanced
 Grant (Brown, £1.5M), and a Leverhulme Doctoral Training Centre grant (Hills, £1.1M).

        This strong increase in research income since REF2014 was made possible by a number
 of departmental initiatives.

 1) Stimulating and supporting applications for large grants
        The Department actively encouraged applications for large grants. For example,
 information about successful ERC grant applications from other UK psychology departments
 was shared in departmental staff meetings and annual research away days. Furthermore, the


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department organised a peer support group, "Large Grant Club", in which those who were
 interested in applying for a large grant discussed each other's proposal ideas. These measures
 were highly effective. While the Department had made no ERC grant applications in the
 REF2014 period, it made 12 ERC grant applications in the current REF period: two successful
 (Advanced by Brown, Consolidator by Sanborn) and one Advanced (Wolke) under review in
 the second stage of evaluation. The Large Grant Club supported four UKRI Future Leader
 Fellowship applications: one successful (Lameira, £1.1M, to start in 2021).

 2) Forging strong interdisciplinary research networks in the University
         The Department established interdisciplinary research networks within the University
 (see Objective 3 in Section 1). One of the University’s strategic research foci, Behaviour, Brain,
 & Society Global Research Priority (REF5a 2.9.1) has forged a strong link between Psychology
 and Warwick Business School, which was crucial in Hill's Leverhulme Doctoral Training
 Programme, Brown's ESRC Large Grant and Ludvig's ESRC Research Grant. The Language
 and Learning Group organised events (seminars and one-day conferences) that brought
 together language science researchers across campus. This was crucial in obtaining
 collaborative funding with the Centre for Applied Linguistics (Messenger, Leverhulme research
 grant) and with Philosophy (Kita is a collaborator for the UKRI Future Leader Fellowship to
 Moore in Philosophy). Moore was working in a different University when he applied to UKRI FLF;
 however, he specifically chose Warwick as the host because he was attracted by the close
 research links between Philosophy and Psychology.

 3) Strategic hiring in areas of strength
         Following our strategic plan approved by the University in 2017 (see "Future Plan" in
 Section 1), we hired Assistant Professors in animal communication (Lameira) and behavioural
 science (Walasek) in 2019, two areas in which the Department has research strengths. Taking
 advantage of the excellent intellectual environment, the two quickly secured funding (Lameira,
 UKRI Future Leader Fellowship; Walasek, two grants from Midlands Engine).

 4) Strategic investment in facilities
         As detailed in the "Facilities" section below, the investment in the Behavioural Science
 Lab, the Sleep Lab, the Baby and Child Lab, and the Driving Simulator enabled a number of
 successful grants.

 5) General grant application support
        The Department used numerous approaches to facilitate grant applications. First, a
 member of the University’s Research and Impact Services was physically present in the
 department one day per week. Second, the Department designated "Grant Writing Days" (2
 days x 4 times/year), during which emails and meetings unrelated to grants were discouraged to
 provide larger chunks of time for proposal development. Third, academic staff who were
 preparing grant proposals were assigned a "buddy" who provided feedback on drafts. Fourth,
 the Department took advantage of various University pump-priming funds. For example, the
 Research Development Fund enabled Kita to create a participant database for infant studies,
 which led to his Leverhulme Research Fellowship, and enabled Messenger's ESRC grant and a
 ESRC postdoctoral fellowship hosted by Hills. Pilot grants from the University’s Global
 Research Priority (REF5a 2.9.1) led to Hill's hosting of the ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship and
 Messenger's ESRC grant and a Leverhulme Trust Research grant.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure and facilities
 The Department is located in a single building. Staff offices are clustered along a single corridor,
 the three Groups intermixed to encourage interactions.
      The Department has 5 main research lab areas: Behavioural Science Lab, the Sleep Lab,
 Baby & Child Lab, Virtual Reality Lab, and the Driving Simulator. Furthermore, the Department
 has a substantial number of PC-equipped single cubicle testing labs, some with soundproofing.
 The Department opened the Sleep Lab, Baby & Child Lab and Behavioural Science Lab in early
 2014 with £500K investment since September 2013. Subsequently, as a result of collaborations
 with Warwick Manufacturing Group, the Department obtained a Driving Simulator (2015) for
 £85K, and new Virtual Reality equipment (2018) for £12K.
      One IT officer and IT manger (both 1.0FTE with permanent contracts) support the research
 infrastructure. They provide general IT support and data security, as well as ensuring GDPR and
 health and safety compliance.

 The Behavioural Science Lab (directors Ludvig and Sanborn) contains 24 PCs for group
 testing. These PCs are networked and can be used to run experiments in which the participants
 interact with each other. This is useful for research on group decision making and game theory,
 as well as efficient simultaneous data collection with multiple participants.
         This Lab enabled a wide range of projects in judgement and decision making (funded by
 an ERC Consolidator Grant, an ERC Advanced Grant, ESRC Research Grants, and a
 Leverhulme Doctoral Training Programme grant).

 The Virtual Reality Lab (director Watson) consists of a dedicated lab area containing a high-
 performance PC driving an HTC Vive VR-headset. The system is interfaced with a dedicated
 Biopac physiology measurement device for the synchronised recording of bio-signals. The lab
 also has standalone Oculus Go VR systems providing greater flexibility in application, and Leap
 Motion sensors to allow visualisation of participants’ hands and fingers within VR. Research is
 conducted using Unity with Autodesk 3DSmax modelling software.
        This facility, established in 2018, has enabled research on virtual presence and real-
 world simulation and performance, memory, deception detection and the perception of
 autonomous vehicles.

 The Baby & Child Lab (directors Kita and Messenger) consists of various testing facilities: a
 family reception room, an eye tracking room with an EyeLink 1000 eye tracker, an infant testing
 room for looking time experiments such as head-turn preference procedures, and a multi-modal
 interaction lab. The research in the Lab was coordinated by the Wa.R.Ks ("Warwick Research
 with Kids") group, a consortium of labs led by Messenger, Kita, Aussems, and Moore in
 Philosophy. The group coordinated testing to maximise efficiency (e.g., a family participates in
 studies from multiple labs in a single visit). PIs and other lab members met every second week
 to coordinate their efforts. The Wa.R.Ks group recruits child participants in various child-related
 events and through advertisement, and jointly manages the participant database. The database
 has approximately 3000 families.
         The lab enabled research on infant pointing gestures (funded by Leverhulme Research
 Fellowships), children's syntactic processing (funded by ESRC and Leverhulme Research
 Grants) and theory of mind (UKRI Future Leader Fellowship).

 The Sleep Lab (director Tang) comprises a testing bedroom with en-suite bathroom and
 adjacent control room. The bedroom is sound attenuated with temperature and lighting control. It
 is equipped with an Embla S4500 polysomnography system and an infrared video-monitoring
 system for overnight sleep studies. For ambulatory sleep/activity monitoring, we use actiwatches

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from CamNTech and Physical Activity Monitoring System from BioSensics. Quantitative sensory
 testing uses a refrigerated circulating water bath and a digital algometer supplied by Medoc.
         The Sleep Lab enabled research on a novel hybrid intervention for pain-related insomnia
 in primary care (NIHR funded), and research that develops and evaluates a programme to
 support people living with chronic pain to improve their everyday functioning and reduce their
 opioid use (NIHR funded).

 The Driving Simulator (director Watson) is for the department’s exclusive use. The simulator
 consists of a fixed-base system comprising the cabin of a Jaguar XJ vehicle and a set of
 networked PCs running the Oktal SCANeR driving simulator package. The facility has three
 forward projection screens and three rearward screens to provide immersive views in the
 vehicle’s interior and exterior mirrors. Sound is provided via a 5.1 channel system and
 vibrotactile feedback via a force-feedback steering wheel and under seat shaker. The driver
 uses the original cabin controls to interact with the vehicle and both the dashboard and centre
 consoles consist of customisable LCD panels. Miniature cameras record driver behaviour. The
 simulation software generates custom terrains/environments/road layouts, and a dedicated
 scripting language creates dynamic events with various parameters (e.g., the behaviour of other
 vehicles, time of day, weather conditions, etc). The system is interfaced with a Biopac
 physiological recording apparatus to record the driver's electrodermal activity, heart rate,
 respiration rate, skin temperature and facial EMG. The Driving Simulator enabled research on
 driver behaviour and road safety: for example, the perception of autonomous vehicle behaviour
 (funded by EPSRC/Jaguar Land Rover).

 RECAP Preterm Data Platform (director Wolke) allows researchers anywhere in the world to
 analyse data from participating very preterm and very low birth weight cohort studies, using
 novel tools available on the project webpage. The data node at the University of Warwick holds
 harmonised data of eight longitudinal studies of preterm children into adulthood. With Datashield
 technology, harmonised microdata (data on individual subjects) across cohorts can be securely
 analysed without physically sharing it with research users (thus complying with GDPR).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 The Department developed a number of research networks and partnerships.

 Grants
        The Department held numerous research grants with investigators in other institutions.
 Three examples are especially notable. Wolke was a PI on a Horizon 2020 grant that
 coordinated 20 partner institutions in Europe to create a European-wide cohort study database.
 Brown co-led the Network for Interdisciplinary Behavioural Science, funded by a Large Grant
 from the ESRC, with researchers from the University of East Anglia and the University of
 Nottingham. Walasek was part of a consortium grant, Midlands Engine Mental Health and
 Productivity Pilot, which involves six universities in the Midlands, Public Health England, West
 Midlands Combined Authority, and mental health charity Mind.

 Research partnership
       Wade investigated the relationship between trauma history and the reliability of memory
 for emotional events, working with clinical psychology experts in Monash University. This three-
 year project was supported by the University’s Monash-Warwick strategic collaboration funds


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (see section 1.12, item 4, in the institutional statement). Ludvig was a Visiting Associate
 Professor at Technion in Israel and a Visiting Research Collaborator at Princeton.

 Outputs
       The authorship of submitted outputs illustrate extensive collaboration networks of the
 Department. 76% of the outputs submitted had non-Warwick co-authors (60% with an overseas
 co-author, and 16% without an overseas co-author but with a non-Warwick UK co-author).

 Contribution to the Research Base
 Department members contributed to the peer review process for a number of journals and
 funding bodies.

 Research database
 RECAP Preterm Data Platform (director Wolke) allows researchers anywhere in the world to
 analyse data from eight longitudinal studies of preterm children into adulthood in a secure
 GDPR-compliant way.

 Chief Editor and Associate Editor of a journal
         Gesture (Chief Editor, Kita), Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology (Associate
 Editor, Schlaghecken), Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition
 (Associate Editor, Sanborn), Legal and Criminological Psychology (Associate Editor, Wade).

 Consulting Editor and Editorial/Advisory Board Member of a journal
        Cognitive Research: Principles & Implications (Kunar), Journal of the Experimental
 Analysis of Behavior (Ludvig), Comparative Cognition & Behavior Reviews (Ludvig), Journal of
 Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance (Watson), Behavioral Research
 Methods (Adelman), Journal of Pragmatics (Kita), Language and Cognition (Kita), Psychology
 and Aging (Maylor), Journal of Gerontology (Maylor), Psychological Science (Maylor),
 European Journal of Personality (Realo), Journal of Cross-cultural Psychology (Realo),
 International Perspectives in Psychology: Research, Practice, Consultation (Realo), Journal of
 Cognitive Psychology (von Mühlenen), Journal of Sleep Research (Tang).

 Grant bodies
        ESRC, BBSRC, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Arthritis Research UK, German
 Science Foundation, Japan Society for Promotion of Science, National Science Foundation
 (USA), Swiss National Science Foundation, Russian Mega-grant scheme, Human Frontiers
 Science Program, Israel Science Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research Council of Canada, Estonian Research Council, Netherlands Organisation
 for Scientific Research.

 The Department organised conferences and took leadership roles in learned societies and other
 academic organisations.

 Conference organisation
 - Sanborn, Adelman, and Brown organised the 2017 MathPsych/ICCM conference at Warwick.
 - Brown organised the 2016 Workshop on the Nature of Preferences, The Network for
 Integrated Behavioural Sciences mini Conference, in Berlin.
 - Ludvig co-organised the 2016 Foundations of Utility and Risk Conference (FUR-2016) at
 Warwick and the 2015 and 2016 Barbados Workshops on Reinforcement Learning. He was also


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Tutorial Chair for the Reinforcement Learning & Decision Making (RLDM) conference in
 Montreal, Canada.
 - Watson and Kunar organised the 2016 Collaborative Academic and Driving Safety Forum.
 - Kita and Messenger co-organised the 2015 Child Language Symposium at Warwick.
 - Kita and Aussems organised the Gesture and Language Development workshop in 2015
 (funded by the Experimental Psychology Society), and the Role of Gesture in Cognitive and
 Linguistics Processes postgraduate workshop in 2017 (funded by the Experimental Psychology
 Society), both at Warwick.
 - MacCallum organised the 2015 Changing Understandings of Body Image workshop at
 Warwick.
 - Realo and Goodwin organised the 4th Mini-conference on Culture and Psychology in 2018 at
 Warwick.

 Discussion forum
 A postdoc (Hardy) and a PhD student (Coumel) in the Department convened a statistics
 discussion forum for women, "R-Ladies Coventry", with participants from Warwick and other UK
 and European universities.

 Learned societies and other academic organisations
 - Brown was a member of the 2014 Hong Kong UGC REF panel.
 - Wade was Executive Director of the Society for Applied Research in Memory & Cognition
 (International).
 - Realo was a Member of the Executive Committee and President of the European Association
 for Personality Psychology (EAPP), and a Member of the Scientific Advisory Board of the
 European Social Survey ERIC.
 - Kita was the President of the International Society for Gesture Studies, and also served as a
 member of its executive committee.
 - Wolke was a Member of European Society for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (ESCAP)
 International Scientific Advisory Board (Geneva, Switzerland), a Member of SPRING – Pre-Term
 Birth Collaborators Steering Committee, a Member of the Scientific Advisory board to the
 German Government - Working party on Psychology, the Chair of the Follow-up & Continuing
 Care Topic Expert Group of the Standards of Care for Newborn Health Project in EFCNI
 (European Foundation for the Care of Newborn Infants), a Member of the Scientific Advisory
 Board of EFCNI, a Member of the Chair Committee of the newly established Global Alliance for
 Newborn Care (GANCE - worldwide), and a Member of the working group in the International
 Consortium for Healthcare Outcomes Measurement.

 Indicators of wider influence
 The Department’s academic influence can be evidenced by awards and distinctions during the
 REF period.

 - Realo: Member of the Estonian Academy of Sciences
 - Realo: The Order of the White Star (IV Class)—the highest state distinction—awarded by the
 President of Estonia.
 - Wolke: Highly Cited Researcher (top 1%) by Clarivate Analytics in 2018, 2019, 2020.
 - Wolke: the BPS Developmental Psychology Distinguished Contribution Award.
 - Wolke: an Honorary Doctorate in Natural Sciences from Ruhr-University Bochum.
 - Wade and Wolke: Fellows of the Association for Psychological Science.
 - Sanborn and Hills: Fellows of the Alan Turing Institute.
 - Preston: the Margaret Gorman Early Career Award from APA Division 36.

                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 - Ludvig: the Clifford T. Morgan award for best paper in Learning & Behavior.
 - Hills: Best Paper award in Society of Risk Analysis.

 Interactions with key research users and wider contributions to economy and society
 The three research groups were highly active in research user engagement.

 Behavioural Science Group
          Brown was an Academic Advisor for the Fairbanking Foundation (2016-2017) due to his
 expertise in judgment and decision making research.
        Stewart (now at Warwick Business School) collaborated with the UK's credit card industry
 body to uncover novel patterns in how credit card users pay off their debts, based on the data of
 millions of actual transactions. This led to collaboration with the Financial Conduct Authority, in
 which they tested interventions to reduce the interest that card users often unnecessarily pay.
 This resulted in recommendations to the Financial Conduct Authority on credit card use (one of
 our Impact Case Studies).
        Wade collaborated with the International Court of Arbitration (part of the International
 Chamber of Commerce) which resolves high-stakes commercial disputes across the world.
 Wade was a member of the taskforce in the International Chamber of Commerce which
 developed new policy on collecting and evaluating witness evidence in the arbitration process.
 Wade's long-standing research on witness memory shaped the task force's policy
 recommendations (one of our Impact Case Studies).
        Watson held a Co-I EPSRC grant with Jaguar Land Rover to investigate how people
 interpret and judge the behaviour of autonomous vehicles.
        Collaboration within the Group led to impact generating projects. Kunar and Watson built
 on their expertise on visual attention to collaboratively develop driving skills training
 programmes, which raised awareness of how human attention can lapse and fail to detect
 prominent objects or large changes in the visual field. Their training programmes are being used
 by Dorset and Gloucestershire Police as well as by Leeds and Dudley Councils, to promote safe
 driving.
        Wallasek and Ludvig carried out a collaborative project on how the gambling industry
 communicates with customers about their products, and how to optimise communication in a
 way that is fair to customers.

 Lifespan Health & Wellbeing Group
         Wolke's longitudinal research on the long-term outcome of pre-maturely born infants
 influenced standards of care for pre-term infants, through participation in the European
 Foundation for the Care of Newborn Infants (EFNCI) and the International Consortium for Health
 Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM). Wolke developed the PARCA-R (Parent Report of Children's
 Abilities-Revised) questionnaire for screening the cognitive and language ability of two-year-olds
 in a highly efficient way (see Wolke’s Impact Case Studies). The screening tool is recommended
 in NICE guidance (2017) in the UK, and it is used in over 46 countries. It has been normed for
 the representative sample of full-term and preterm children in the UK. It has been used as a
 screening tool in clinics to triage care, and it has also been used as the main outcome measure
 in randomised controlled trials of neonatal interventions.
         Wolke was a Member of the Action Medical Research Scientific Advisory Panel, a
 Member of the National Steering Group – Childhood Feeding Disorders (NSG-CFD), and
 provided advice to companies such as Philips Avent and Mead Johnson.
         Goodwin was a consultant for the International Atomic Energy Authority on the
 communication of nuclear risk and led their survey team on measures for nuclear waste
 reduction (2016). Goodwin, in collaboration with Department of Politics and International

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Studies, ran interdisciplinary workshops on psychological/political aspects of security in
 Brussels, Venice and at the Alan Turing Institute. These events disseminated Goodwin's
 research around the theme of "security and risk" in moments of crisis. Those attending events
 included senior representatives from the European Commission, FCO, MOD, DfID, Cabinet
 Office, and Sandhurst Military Academy. Goodwin was also a commentator on the new WHO
 Framework for Managing Mental Health and Psycho-Social (MHPS) Support in Radiological and
 Nuclear Emergencies, providing feedback on the new framework documentation. He also helped
 organise a Joint Workshop for end-user feedback and scoping out the practical tools for MHPS
 (BfS-NEA-WHO) (2020), which included WHO and OECD.
        Lemola worked with the Swiss Midwives Association, to evaluate and revise the
 "Guidelines on Screening and Counselling for the prevention of cigarette smoking and alcohol
 consumption before, during, and after pregnancy” (revised and updated version released in
 2017), based on his research on pre-term babies. He has also worked with the Canton Basel-
 Stadt Ministry of Education (Switzerland) regarding secondary schools' starting time in the
 morning, based on his research on sleep and cognitive functions.
        The Sleep and Pain Lab (led by Tang) investigated the relationship between chronic pain
 and sleep, and used their research findings to inform treatment development. The research also
 evaluated the efficacy and feasibility of providing recommended interventions in health services,
 in collaboration with University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire and local Clinical
 Commissioning Groups in Coventry, Rugby and Warwickshire (funded by MRC, NIHR, Arthritis
 Research UK). Empirical research and meta-analyses by the Sleep and Pain Lab informed the
 European Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Insomnia and the current draft of NICE
 guidelines for chronic pain published for consultation. The group is collaborating with the local
 IAPT service to provide training for high intensity therapists to roll out the hybrid CBT
 programme developed for patients with pain and insomnia. The Sleep and Pain Lab also
 conducted research on opioid tapering for chronic pain patients (funded by NIHR),
 multidisciplinary management programme for patients with dystonia (funded by Dystonia
 Society), the impact of Covid-19 on students’ mental health (funded by the University), and
 sleep, emotion regulation and mental health in the workplace (funded by Midland Engine).
        Realo was a member of the Advisory Board to the Estonian Minister of Health and Labour
 on issues concerning equal opportunities.

 Language and Learning Group
         Kita, Messenger, and Aussems disseminated their latest findings to hundreds of parents
 with young children every year, via various family-oriented events such as the BabyShow, the
 British Science Festivals, and events in art/science museums and libraries.
         Aussems and McGillion conducted research (in two separate projects, one funded by
 UKRI) on how lockdown due to Covid-19 impacted language development in children, in
 collaboration with UK and overseas universities.
         Hills obtained funding from Innovate UK, with help from Warwick Venture (Warwick's
 commercialisation branch), to visit and meet potential customers/investors for commercialisation
 of his research tool, Macroscope, and the underlying machine learning mechanism. Macroscope
 can find how the meaning of words changed over historical time, by text-mining historical texts.
 Towsend and Lameria's research on animal communication is widely disseminated to the public
 through BBC, New York Times, and National Geographic.




                                                                                          Page 18
