Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: C-14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Unit context and structure
 Geography at the Open University (OU Geography) is a distinctive Human Geography
 department with a strong international reputation for leading critical theoretically-informed
 approaches to space, place and environment. Our collective vision is driven by a commitment to
 openness, with a research strategy focused on being: (1) open to new geographical thinking: to
 push the boundaries of conceptually-innovative scholarship across national and international
 audiences; (2) open to engagement: a co-productive approach, developing cutting-edge,
 meaningful research with a diverse range of communities, industry and third sector groups; (3)
 open for publics: harnessing our unique strengths in broadcast and digital media to expand the
 scope and reach of OU Geography’s research expertise and capability. Our focus on making
 knowledge public and co-producing research with publics and stakeholders aligns with the OU’s
 mission: ‘open to people, places, ideas and methods’ (OU Institutional Environment Statement: 1
 (OUIES)). Our stakeholder-centred approach has delivered a step-change in research grant
 success with awards worth over £6.5m (section 3) taken up through OU Geography during the
 census period (average of £500K per person). We have quadrupled income from under £1m to
 over £3.6m, comparing REF2014 with REF2021.

 OU Geography is built on three thematic clusters with overlapping concepts, problematics and
 membership. These are: (1) Space and Power: rethinking the politics of place, scale and
 territory; (2) Culture and Practice: rethinking how relations between and among humans and
 technologies come together to make and remake places and societies; and (3) Environment and
 Politics: rethinking how institutions, practices, knowledges and materials shape an
 environmental politics which addresses contemporary environmental challenges. These share a
 central concern with the politics of space and spatial relations conceived through formal and
 informal institutions, practices, resources, knowledges and conceptions of agency. Each address
 spatial inequality in resources, materials, embodiments, experiences and opportunities.

 Geography is situated within the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences and is supported by faculty
 research office, infrastructure and postgraduate provision. Our OpenSpace Research Centre
 provides the overarching framework for our research environment as the home to our research
 clusters. OpenSpace implements the Geography department’s cohesive research strategy by
 maintaining an outward-facing profile of research through events and web presence; providing
 intellectual exchange, networking and research development through workshops, meetings and
 mentoring; and acting as a primary research environment for practical and academic support (for
 example with funding applications and academic writing). OpenSpace has an academic director
 (3-year term) working closely with the Head of Geography while the thematic clusters each have
 an elected lead. Geography staff also play active roles in the University’s Strategic Research
 Areas particularly International Development and Inclusive Innovation (Raghuram, Sondhi),
 Citizenship and Governance, Space Science and Technology (Bhagwat, Kulkarni) and Health
 and Wellbeing (Lorne). OpenSpace events and activities are directed towards situating
 geographical thinking within interdisciplinary contexts and building links with other research


                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 areas within and beyond the University, with membership open to academics and researchers
 from outside the discipline.

 b. Research and impact strategy
 Our strategic aims for this census period were:

    1. continue agenda-setting research in the ‘Space and Power’ and ‘Culture and Practice’
       clusters and to build funded research in the ‘Environment and Politics’ cluster which
       cross cuts conceptually and methodologically with the other research clusters.
    2. develop OpenSpace as a knowledge centre and intellectual hub providing a critical
       resource base and forum for exchange concerning approaches to space, place and
       environment. This acts as an interdisciplinary platform and voice for engaging the
       University’s Strategic Research Areas and will give Geography a distinctive presence
       within the newly emerging Centre for Global Challenges within the School of Social
       Sciences and Global Studies.

 OpenSpace strategy is made democratically in consultation with the full membership including
 postgraduates and associate members. We have focussed on embedding critical theorising of
 space and place in practical problem-orientated research. All three research clusters have
 strengthened their financial sustainability through increased grant income from diverse sources,
 fostering postgraduate research in our areas of excellence, and supporting long-term
 collaborations with non-academic partners such as Norfolk County Council, National Trust and
 NASSCOM, the world’s largest IT sector trade body.

 Space and Power: Since 2014, this cluster has continued to focus on elaborating new spatial
 registers of power which move beyond scale and territory by developing funded case study
 research exploring the interdependencies of global and local, problematising taken-for-granted
 notions of distance and borders through thinking space relationally. Allen (2016) has shown how
 a topological conception of the reach of power provides a more subtle account of how
 governments, corporations and NGOs register their presence through quieter forms of power
 than domination or control. Similarly, Raghuram has argued that the deeply contextual politics
 and practice of care across space challenges conventional notions of ethics, setting new
 theoretical, political and empirical agendas within geography and feminist theory. Lorne has
 recently problematised the inherently progressive political framing of openness through the rise
 of social innovation and its intersection with austerity localism.

 This work, developed and delivered with stakeholders, addresses some of the most compelling
 issues today. ESRC-funded research on Biosecurity Borderlands has promoted a greater
 understanding of biopolitics of infectious diseases and demonstrated how diseases are multiple
 and heterogeneous, whereby securing life is less a matter of keeping out and more one of being
 prepared (Allen, Bingham). Migration has been addressed not as problematic but for revealing
 the intensities of connections and disconnections that shape digital work, education and health.
 The ESRC-funded Gender, Skilled Migration and IT industry: a comparative study of India and
 the UK (Raghuram, Sondhi) highlights what migrant lives can teach us about gendered digital
 labour markets and how knowledge of best practice can be transferred across countries, sectors
 and firms. This research on gender and skills has altered practices in the industry underpinning
 Impact Case Study 2. While international migration is widely problematised, internal migration is
 the focus of the ESRC-funded Labour Geographies of India’s New Services: The Working Lives

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Agents in the ITES-BPM Sector, a group whose tenuous lives have come under scrutiny after
 COVID-19 (Ray). ESRC-Newton Fund-funded Facilitating Equitable Access and Quality
 Education for Development: South African International Distance Education (Raghuram) has
 drawn on and contributed to the OU’s world-leading research on distance education, highlighting
 the spatial registers of power embedded in educational infrastructures. The Australian Research
 Council-funded Tracing modes of infrastructure, financing and their effects on cities (Allen,
 Pryke) has enhanced understandings of how water, buildings and roads as infrastructures are
 being transformed as modes of finance moving from one city to another.

 Culture and Practice: This cluster is built on a sustained critique of conceptual binaries such as
 representation/non-representation, affect/emotion, material/immaterial, human/nonhuman,
 powerful/weak outlined at REF2014. A key focus for research is an examination and use of
 media, mediation and communicative and creative practice understood through conceptions of
 relational and topological space (See Space and Power cluster). How the geographical
 production of knowledge is shaped by media and mediation is key to Newman’s work. While
 Pile builds on his 2014 exploration of affective communication understood topologically with
 implications for how humans are understood as entangled with more-than-human worlds. Revill
 has similarly examined topological dimensions of communication through his work on the
 political agency of sound. Through research bringing together issues of space, power,
 environment, creative practice and affective experience through design, Lorne creates an
 agenda for a politically progressive geography of architecture which starts from the multiple
 human and non-human actors that cohere and congeal to produce buildings. It explores how
 architects initiate and contribute to spatial projects prioritising social and economic objectives.
 Similarly, Kullman’s work on disability communities and design explores disruptive architectural
 concerns, proposing an unstable politics of designed environments built though embodied and
 material practices and processes.

 Co-productive engagement with stakeholders led to a suite of funded research exploring, for
 instance, understandings of how digital infrastructures generate social difference, how they
 facilitate access to educational and recreational experiences and the making and sharing of
 knowledge and information. ESRC-funded Smart Cities in the Making: Learning from Milton
 Keynes (Bingham, Raghuram, Rose, Wigley, Zanetti) has contributed to enhancing
 understanding of smart cities for academic and non-academic stakeholders on how smart
 activities can engage citizens, and creating new knowledge of 'smart' city activities that both
 encounter and create specific forms of social difference. Additionally, creative arts-based
 methods and practices have been used to explore entanglements between the spiritual and the
 social in cities. AHRC-funded Spirited Stoke: Spiritualism in the Everyday Life of Stoke-on-Trent
 has promoted a greater understanding of the role of religion, shining new light on the politics of
 identity and everyday life (Pile, Wigley). EPSRC-funded Next Generation Paper (Revill, Van
 Duppen) research explores how a mix of paper and screen-based media reshape tourist
 experiences of place. As part of a project partnered by the publishing industry, research
 examines the implications of ‘poly-media’ for gathering, making and sharing knowledge as itself
 an embodied creative practice. Openness to publics in culture, communication and creative
 practices is embedded in the AHRC-funded projects Contextualising peace education in Africa
 and Decolonising peace education in Africa. Raghuram focuses on how local arts can be used
 to enhance and deploy values and knowledge of peace and how they can be shared,
 understood and enacted across social divisions – intergenerationally, inter-group and across the
 global South and North.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environment and Politics: This cluster shapes geographical thinking around the politics of
 environmental justice and sustainability, while engaging with entanglements of material
 social/cultural and human/nonhuman that characterise the environmental challenges of the
 Anthropocene (Allen and Carter, Bingham, Hinchliffe, Revill and Van Lieshout). Bhagwat
 engages with environmental values and cultures within a cultural ecology perspective focusing
 on human-environment interactions, while Humphrey’s focus on environmental policy engages
 directly with issues of governance. Work initiated by Smith, Revill and Hammond has focused
 on public cultural understandings of contemporary environmental challenges such as climate
 change (Smith). Ernwein’s recent appointment extends work on public engagement and
 environmental understandings into urban ecology. A grant awarded by Research England’s
 Expanding Excellence in England (E3) fund extended interdisciplinary Astrobiology research at
 the OU (Bhagwat and Marino) leading a work package on international development and
 inclusive innovation developing ways of ‘decolonising’ fieldwork in environmental and earth
 sciences. Collectively, this work has contributed long-term ecological and historical knowledge of
 landscapes to the management of present-day tropical and coastal landscapes, proposing new
 ways of conducting fieldwork ethically in earth and environmental sciences.

 Stakeholder engagement and co-produced knowledge has been central to success within the
 cluster. EU Horizon 2020-funded research Examining the Agroforestry Landscape Resilience in
 India to inform Social-Ecological Sustainability in the Tropics (Bhagwat, Kulkarni) brought
 together local conservation groups and farmers to promote a greater understanding of the
 resilience of tropical agriculture-forest landscapes to environmental and anthropogenic drivers of
 change. Research also enhanced knowledge of the challenges of governing the global
 environment and natural resources (Bhagwat, Humphreys) while simultaneously contributing
 richer accounts of local practices in sustainable management of nature and natural resources
 (Bhagwat, Kostelecký and Jehlicka, Morris, Smith, Van Lieshout).

 The cluster combines a substantial portfolio of funded research building stakeholder and
 community engagement with the public reach of broadcast and digital media. Our work promotes
 public understandings of climate change and contributes to policies for coastal management
 through creative arts-based approaches. This funded research expands on relational
 approaches to space pioneered in the Space and Power cluster, critiquing received binary terms
 such as nature/culture, and the focus on media, mediation and creative engagement developed
 with the Culture and Practice cluster. AHRC-funded Stories of Change: Exploring energy and
 community in the past, present and future (Smith) generated creative visions for sustainable
 alternative energy futures. While the AHRC-funded Earth in Vision: Pathfinding in digital
 broadcast environmental archives (Revill, Smith) engaged a variety of publics, including school
 and university students to creatively collage and remake environmental TV material in order to
 curate new, alternative environmental narratives and understandings. The AHRC-funded
 Listening to Climate Change: experiments with sonic democracy (Revill) developed this
 approach further by initiating a series of creative engagements with publics, professionals and
 practitioners in deliberative forms of environmental decision-making involving multiple voices in
 coastal management.

 Impact is essential to the design, development and implementation of all research projects. Our
 impact strategy: (1) builds, sustains and expands relationships with diverse publics,
 beneficiaries and constituencies; (2) works with project partners to ensure we build impact
 pathways, monitoring and evaluation into research design, project planning and the delivery of

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 clear and agreed impact objectives throughout the research cycle; (3) develops a robust
 broadcast and social media strategy to extend the reach and visibility of impact; (4) enables
 researchers to be informed by diverse publics and seek external support for future impact. The
 strategy embeds partnership from the early stages of project design, working with partners
 throughout the research process to deliver co-designed and jointly-delivered outcomes to create
 genuinely co-produced knowledge. The strategy stresses the importance of ensuring clear
 objectives linked to appropriate evaluation commencing, during and after research. Building
 feedback into the structure of research enhances long-term partner relations resulting in follow-
 on and further funding collaborations.

 Building partnerships has also been essential for fostering a public research agenda
 underpinning our OU Geography Impact Case Studies Sounding Coastal Change (SCC) and
 Addressing gender inequalities in IT: UK and India. SCC researchers partnered with the National
 Trust, Norfolk County Council and Norfolk Coast Partnership and others based on the vulnerable
 coastal Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty in North Norfolk. The research develops creative
 engagement methodologies and deliberative decision-making processes whereby the research
 teamwork with project partners to engage a diverse range of ‘voices’ and publics in key
 environmental planning decisions. Working closely with project partners is also central to
 Addressing gender inequalities in IT: UK and India. Raghuram and Sondhi secured the first
 ever partnership between a UK university and the world’s largest Information Technology (IT)
 sector trade body, National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM).
 NASSCOM represents over 90% of the Indian IT industry and its members control approximately
 200 billion US dollars’ worth of business. Research redefined the ‘problems’ women in the
 industry face, generating new programmes for addressing and rethinking these while
 establishing a pipeline for influencing public policy nationally and internationally.

 OpenSpace has facilitated research with partnerships, co-production and impact built into
 design, execution, evaluation and feedback. Monthly open group meetings share experiences
 and good practice to build and sustain impact. Targeted individual feedback is provided on
 specific proposals, with ‘pathways to impact’, monitoring and evaluation major foci across all
 research. OpenSpace operates as a hub to organise sessions on how to improve dissemination
 of impact through social media, podcasting, blogging and digital broadcast. Establishing good
 practice to maintain meaningful collaborative relationships with partners is drawn from a growing
 body of shared experiences and expertise. Training sessions enhance our capacity in research
 engagement and impact, with OpenSpace providing a central focus for disseminating knowledge
 and advising on applying for funding to ensure new pathways to impact. It is supported within an
 open research environment promoted at Departmental, Faculty and University level by a robust
 ethics process (OUIES:4). We develop all researchers in terms of respect, diversity and values
 when engaging and working with individuals, groups, organisations and communities. This
 centralised approach increases efficiency and oversight, while promoting good practice rather
 than simple regulation.

 Future research plans will further strengthen the practical problem-oriented dimension of OU
 Geography’s long-standing reputation within and beyond human geography through
 problematising and rethinking notions of space, place and environment. Recent staffing
 additions (section 2) have allowed us to develop this approach with and around new personnel
 and leadership. We will continue to ground distinctive spatial-political theory in compelling cross-
 cutting contemporary issues and challenges related to climate change (Environment and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Politics/Culture and Practice), migration (Culture and Practice/Space and Power) and the
 contemporary city (Space and Power/Culture and Politics). Complex questions connecting
 diverse human and non-human geographies demand engagement with multiple forms of
 knowledge, the active participation and collaboration of varied publics, stakeholders and
 constituencies, and necessitates interdisciplinary research and problem-solving. This approach
 cultivates challenge-led research drawing together researchers and practitioners from different
 disciplines and skillsets into different problem-solving combinations.

 Our future Research Strategy and Impact Plans have been informed and planned
 democratically via OpenSpace incorporating contributions of new staff recruited in 19/20. It
 coalesces around three priority areas:

 1) Research Themes

    •   build suites of research around key contemporary issues and challenges where we have
        current and ongoing funding success specifically, climate change, migration and the
        contemporary city, while remaining responsive to new issues and supporting emerging
        research themes;
    •   encourage sustained and enduring external project partner relationships and follow-on
        funding for impact in relation to these long-term research themes;
    •   support ongoing research focused on decolonising knowledge and pluralising academic
        voices and perspectives as part of a continuing drive towards disseminating these
        initiatives widely and embedding them in our own research and academic practice;
    •   develop a core body of work on participatory, co-produced and arts-based engagement
        methods which help to fulfil the University’s remit for open public knowledge transfer and
        dissemination while drawing on the Open University’s expertise in media communication
        and engagement.

 2) Researchers

    •   develop the research careers of new staff and ECRs and strengthen the grant pipeline by
        embedding a mix of junior and senior staff in future grant applications based around
        identified key contemporary challenges;
    •   maintain our efforts to diversify funding sources, and aim to engage all researchers as
        PIs/Co-Is;
    •   increase our doctoral student intake through close engagement with the priority areas set
        by the Doctoral Training Partnerships and through proactive academic support of
        candidates through the application process.

 3) Resources

    •   develop OpenSpace as an interdisciplinary platform engaging with funding opportunities
        presented by University Strategic Research Areas and collaboration with other Research
        Centres to build and sustain research staffing, capacity and legacy;
    •   guarantee the legacy of current projects and upscaling of research through support and
        advice for appropriate follow-on and further funding and the dissemination of findings to
        new policy, user and academic communities through OpenSpace events, activities and
        media-based public engagement;


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   ensure broad engagement with research by hosting post award events and providing a
        digital platform for research findings through OpenSpace.


 OU Geography is exceptionally well placed to expand interdisciplinary connections and contacts,
 while uniquely positioned to extend our reach, capacity and expertise across digital and
 broadcast media. Enabled by the new School of Social Sciences and Global Studies, OU
 Geography will further advance original conceptual and methodological thinking across
 disciplinary boundaries. The research strategy builds momentum on existing grants from AHRC
 and ESRC running until 2024 underwriting impactful research throughout the post-REF 2021
 research period. We will expand on this legacy of ongoing successes building further momentum
 in research culture, working with a diverse range of stakeholders across public, private and civil
 society sectors in both the global South and North. In doing so, we will draw on methods and
 resources generated at the OU including the development of Open Educational Resources. OU
 Geography’s relationship with the BBC will enrich greater democratic access both informing, and
 being informed by, wider publics.

 2. People

 a. Staffing strategy and staff development
 Since REF 2014, staff development has been driven by four key aims linked to our overarching
 research and impact strategy:

    i.   Recruit early career researchers and build capacity within research clusters
 We have recruited five new staff at junior and ECR levels since December 2019. New staff have
 been recruited in order to contribute across more than one research cluster: (Ernwein,
 Gawlewicz, Lorne and Sondhi – Space and Power; Ernwein, Gawlewicz, Kullman, Lorne,
 Newman, Sondhi and Van Lieshout – Culture and Practice; Ernwein and Van Lieshout –
 Environment and Politics). These appointments replace staff who have retired (Allen, appointed
 Emeritus Professor); or left to take up prestigious and high-profile posts elsewhere within the
 discipline (Rose, Professor and Head of School of Geography and the Environment, Oxford;
 Smith, Director of the Royal Geographical Society; Jehlicka, Senior Researcher at the Czech
 Academy of Sciences) with Butcher now Professor and HoD at Birkbeck. These changes have
 enabled early and mid-career staff to step into research leadership roles.

   ii.   Provide careful and sustained mentoring of all researchers and Post-Docs
 As a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, we monitor
 and adapt procedures to conform to its seven principles (Bronze award 2013 and 2016). During
 the Covid-19 pandemic, OU’s state of the art IT and video conferencing facilities have enabled
 us to stay in close touch with all our research students and colleagues formally and informally,
 enabling flexible and adaptive ways of responding to the situation. We support our researchers
 in developing their academic career trajectory and aspirations. In this aspect of our strategy, we
 have Faculty and University support for contract-based and fixed-term staff in terms of
 knowledge exchange, expert advice, mutual and peer-based support groups. In addition, we
 ease new and early career staff into full teaching and administration roles over a 24-month
 period to establish their research trajectory. Since 2014, OU Geography has existed as a vital
 platform for career development for both experienced staff and early career researchers,
 evidenced by promotions and those leaving the OU for elsewhere. Of the 13 postdoctoral


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers based in Geography since 2016, four have moved on to full-time academic posts
 within the Open University while four have gained full-time academic posts in other UK
 Universities, Europe and the USA, with three moving on to further research contracts.

   iii.   Support early and mid-career staff to take on research leadership roles
 Within the context of University-wide policies, OU Geography provides all staff with an academic
 mentor on appointment and a staff member who supports them through their probationary
 period. In the annual appraisal process, colleagues are encouraged to review and plan their
 longer-term goals, directions or priorities, including a research and scholarship plan and
 undertake appropriate development activities aligned with their core roles and responsibilities.
 All junior staff act as co-supervisors in PhD supervision teams, supported by an OU-wide
 training scheme preparing them to become lead supervisors. They are strongly encouraged and
 mentored to become co-applicants on bids as well as bid for their own funding. OU offers
 training programmes in bidding for research funding and all draft bids over £30K go through a
 rigorous internal review process. There is extra support for ECRs with smaller bids. We use the
 OU’s 79 days per annum study or research leave allocation procedures to organise teaching
 responsibilities to maximise sustained research time. Through these measures we enable staff
 to build their research experience and portfolio towards initiating major research projects as
 PI/Co-I.

   iv.  Support the promotion of existing/ mid-career staff.
 Academic promotion for teaching and research staff at the OU is criterion referenced in relation
 to teaching, research and academic leadership. Promotion decisions are made by University
 Committee. Through the appraisal process, workshop events and individual mentorship, staff are
 supported by Geography and FASS to tailor a career profile balancing research, teaching and
 leadership as appropriate. During the current REF period, Bhagwat, Humphreys, Pryke,
 Raghuram, Revill and Smith have been promoted to Professors, while Ernwein, Gawlewicz,
 Kullman, Lorne, Newman, Sondhi, Van Lieshout have been appointed as Lecturers.
 Together, these appointments and promotions strengthen OU Geography supporting our key
 research areas.

 b. Postgraduate Research
 Our Postgraduate Research (PGR) strategy aims to attract students to the OU by obtaining co-
 funding for PhD studentships. We have access to ESRC studentships in our Doctoral Training
 Partnerships (DTPs) with the Universities of Oxford and Brunel (ESRC-funded Grand Union
 DTP), and Oxford and Cambridge (AHRC-funded OOC DTP) which have dedicated Geography
 pathways. We have proactively responded to the adverse effects of national changes to fee
 structures impacting PGR recruitment early in the census period by directly engaging with the
 DTPs. This has enabled us to respond and adapt, alongside sourcing additional external
 funding. Grants from the Government of Ghana and Expanding Excellence in England (E3)
 programmes have enabled BAME PhD student enrolment.

 Since 2018, Geography has introduced the practice of engaged recruitment to increase diversity
 amongst its postgraduate student cohort to shape the academic pipeline. This has resulted in
 diversifying the current OU Geography postgraduate student cohort with nearly 50% BAME
 representation and an even gender balance. Additionally, and in line with OU’s overall student
 recruitment strategy, the OU PGR cohort is representative of geographic, age, and career stage
 diversity which contributes to enriching the research environment.

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs at the OU are part of the OU Graduate School (launched October 2016) and online
 training via the Graduate School Network, a bespoke Virtual Research Environment (VRE) built
 to OU’s world-leading standards. It provides a range of academic, training and professional
 development resources, ensuring parity of experience for all OU research students regardless of
 physical location. Training includes core research methods and skills benchmarked against
 Research Council expectations for PGRs training across the stages of research from initial
 preparation, through the MPhil to PhD upgrade process, during data collection, analysis and
 writing up. There is a formal scheme for all students to build employability and gain structured
 and mentored teaching experience. All doctoral students have at least two supervisors;
 permanent office space, computing facilities and administrative support; encouragement and
 financial support of £1000 per year for full-time and £500 for part-time students for conferences
 and fieldwork expenses. Supervision practices are guided and informed by the University’s Code
 of Practice for Supervisors and Research Students.

 Drawing on OU Geography’s practice of working across disciplines, our students work with
 PGRs in other disciplines, take part in peer-training group and organise student-led seminars
 which promote co-learning. Diverse collaborations and funding sources representing arts, social
 and environmental sciences result in a thriving research community. OU Geography hosts
 several visiting PhD students funded by China Foundation (China) and MITACS (Canada),
 enriching the Department’s research environment as well as extending our networks and
 presence globally. Geographers at the OU are also key in shaping the institutional PGR
 environment. Pile is Associate Director of the ESRC-funded Grand Union DTP with Brunel and
 Oxford. Sondhi is named lead on the OU’s submission to the ESRC consultation for the new
 social sciences PhD, and the AHRC OOC DTP’s strand on Future Humanities Training.

 Completed PhDs since 2014 demonstrate an excellent track record of national and international
 contributions to non-academic and academic sectors building on the strong foundations of the
 OU’s public service mission. Collaborative experiences create non-academic career
 development pathways for our PGRs. Students are engaged with a wide range of policy debates
 during their PhDs and have consequently made careers in third sector organisations (Matilda
 Andersson, Media Analytics; Kim Hagen, National Deaf Children’s society; Kellie Payne,
 Campaign to End Loneliness; Tarsh Thekaekara, The Shola Trust; and Oliver Zanetti, Nesta).

 c. Equality and diversity
 OU Geography embraces the principles of gender equality and social inclusion through staff
 recruitment and career progression, research design and management, recruitment of doctoral
 student and postdoctoral researchers, and in academic activities related to educational and
 other socio-economic impacts. The REF preparatory team consists of 3 professors and 2 junior
 staff of whom 2 are women and 3 men, 2 are Asian and the rest self-identify as White. As such
 the Department is committed to involving groups at all levels within management, research and
 dissemination.

 The OU Geography leadership team ensures research activities adhere to equal opportunity
 procedures in decision-making and work allocation with the three clusters being led by new staff
 with steering by professorial staff. ECRs and junior staff are also encouraged to reflect on the
 value of their participation in these activities as part of their career building.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 OU Geography has adopted a three-pronged method in recent recruitment to the Department
 (lead Sondhi): (1) Targeted Recruitment: contacting people from diverse and under-represented
 backgrounds directly and inviting them to apply; (2) Widening recruitment: circulating
 advertisements outside of Geography networks and 3) Engaged communication: develop
 advertisements, tweets and emails for recruitment aimed at under-represented audiences first.
 Adopting these practices to recruit doctoral students and faculty has resulted in a more diverse
 pool of applicants and the recruitment of postgraduates from non-standard backgrounds with a
 wide range of high-level professional expertise in, for example, the arts, and environmental
 management. OU Geography’s lead has informed the OU’s future plans to develop a good
 practice guide for recruitment of researchers, as specified in the OU’s 2020 Athena Swan
 submission. This is in addition to existing practices which include attendance of reviewed and
 revised unconscious bias training undertaken as part of the mandatory online recruitment and
 selection training. Bhagwat acted as a member of the University’s Academic Reference Group
 whereby Geography has taken a proactive role in the OU’s adoption of the DORA declaration on
 the assessment of research. This has important implications for attracting, retaining and
 developing a diverse research community.

 At Faculty level, Sondhi leads a working group establishing processes and practices to better
 support Black doctoral students. Van Lieshout is an active member of this group in the capacity
 as Postgraduate Convenor. At Institutional level, Raghuram is co-lead of the Decolonising
 Research and Teaching group which has been initiated by the Vice Chancellor’s Executive, on
 the BAME network steering group and the University group on improving Black PGR students’
 experiences. Raghuram’s institutional EDI work extends into shaping research structures and
 agenda at EU-level to lead the anti-racist working group of IMISCOE (International Migration,
 Integration and Social Cohesion in Europe), a network of 56 European migration research
 institutes and centres. Raghuram has brought to the leadership of OpenSpace experience as
 member of the national Race Equality Charter panel and as member of the Race working group
 of the RGS-IBG. Most recently, Raghuram led on an inclusive conference policy which is being
 considered for the next RGS-IBG Conference.

 Future EDI strategy will:

    •   Further equitable partnership with community members, firms and organisations ensuring
        our open research is representative of diverse groups;
    •   Follow the anti-racist research checklist established by the faculty research group of
        which Raghuram is a member;
    •   Actively mentor staff to ensure that all EDI concerns are addressed including the use of
        Safe Space policy which Raghuram is leading across the university.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Income
 Since REF 2014, there is a 407% increase in income to £3.6m compared with £888K in the
 previous census period. We have attracted approximately £6.5m in terms of external research
 funding (grant value). By building a strong bidding culture, and targeting a wide range of funders,
 we have built a diverse funding portfolio: four AHRC (£2m, £1.2m, £506K, £360K), four ESRC,
 (£596K, £446K, £90K, £87K), one EPSRC (as Co-I, value of award to Geography £114K), one
 EU Horizon 2020 (€ 171K), and one Research England Expanding Excellence (as Co-I, £428K,

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 total award £6.8m). These grants have supported a total of 13 early career researchers across
 seven funded projects to embark on their first postdoctoral research positions contributing to the
 dynamic research environment in OU Geography.

 Early career academics are supported through OpenSpace Work in Progress meetings which
 offer opportunities for informal peer review of publications and draft research bids. These
 sessions, along with the legacy of existing research grants (e.g. academic and non-academic
 partnerships) will support the research funding trajectory of OU Geography into the next REF
 cycle. A key task is to facilitate seed-corn funding applications for pilot projects and bid
 development. OpenSpace seed-corn funding up to £2,000 is directed exclusively at ECRs as
 part of a process which includes informal mentoring and grant writing advice. OpenSpace then
 works closely with researchers to compete for other internal funding, for example, in association
 with University Strategic Research Areas (SRAs) particularly International Development and
 Inclusive Innovation, Citizenship and Governance, Space Science and Technology and Health
 and Wellbeing to provide internal funding for research development. Geographers have also
 been able to access internal funding through School, Faculty and University initiatives to support
 impact and further rounds of bidding in relation to ongoing funded research. Seed-corn funding
 has supported all successful research bids in Geography during the current REF period. During
 the academic year 2019-20 Geography staff were awarded in excess of £64K in Faculty and
 University seed-corn money either individually or in interdisciplinary teams to develop new bids
 and follow-on projects. This has leveraged six recent grant successes in excess of £2m of new
 external funding (Pile £36K, Raghuram £145K, £1.9m, Revill £79K, £24K).

 b. Infrastructure and facilities
 Since REF 2014, the OU has made investments in research infrastructure and information-
 technology support. The Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, formed through a merger of two
 faculties, has continued to support OpenSpace as the hub of research in Geography at the OU.
 OU Geography researchers also benefit from the OU’s investment in Strategic Research Areas
 which are interdisciplinary, cross-university research structures spanning International
 Development, Citizenship Studies, Space Science, and Health and Wellbeing (see OUIES: 1,8-
 9). SRAs have been at the forefront of supporting the interdisciplinary research culture at the
 OU, and geographers are involved in regular seminars, workshops and conferences around
 each SRA thematic area of expertise.

 The University continues to create a technologically rich and sophisticated virtual research
 infrastructure. The OU’s library provides staff and research students with online access
 irrespective of geographical location (see OUIES: 9). It is supported by a 24-hour helpdesk,
 online training sessions and study and discussion spaces. State of the art IT also facilitates
 blending remote and co-present working, helping support geography researchers with caring
 responsibilities, illness and disabilities, while allowing some research to proceed during the
 Covid-19 pandemic. It also enables some overseas and UK research collaborations to minimise
 carbon footprints and travel costs.

 All Geography research outputs are uploaded to Open Research Online, one of the UK’s largest
 open access research repositories (see OUIES: 3). Substantial research content is widely
 disseminated through online platforms such as OpenLearn and the OU’s iTunesU site. A new
 research grant award management system enhances guidance to academics during the



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of funding applications and increases the quality of post-award support given to
 investigators.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Forging collaborations, networks and partnerships with diverse publics, stakeholders and
 constituencies is central to our research strategy at OU Geography. Driven by our commitment
 to openness, we have harnessed our unique capability as a Human Geography department able
 to inform, and be informed by, public audiences through broadcast and digital media working in
 sustained partnership with the BBC.

 a. Research collaborations
 OU Geography’s interdisciplinary research collaborations work across and beyond the university
 to combine global reach and local embeddedness to open up new geographical thinking across
 our three thematic clusters. Our strong international reputation is exemplified through Bhagwat’s
 EU-funded Horizon 2020 project, EARNEST, ensuring effective management of human-
 dominated tropical forest, with the Research England-funded Astrobiology OU project
 developing new experimental thinking with earth, environment and planetary scientists to explore
 just and equitable application of space technologies within international development in the
 global South. Raghuram has expanded the OU’s world-leading educational research to lead
 transnational projects that maximise access to quality education in the global South, while Pile’s
 research on the place of Spiritualism in the Everyday Life of Stoke-on-Trent with social
 psychologists provided the basis for agenda-setting geographical interventions into debates on
 emotions, affect and society.

 Our conceptually-innovative collaborations have opened up possibilities for pursuing meaningful
 research across new spatial registers, practices and knowledges, such as Revill’s Mapping
 Music and Landscape Decision Making (AHRC) connecting with musicology and rural policy,
 and Jehlicka and Smith’s Spaces of Quiet Sustainability project working with sociologists and
 environmental studies scholars (Czech Science Foundation). The combination of theorising
 space and place with problem-orientated research has generated new collaborations spanning
 design, IT and publishing, anthropology, health and social policy, sociology as well as economic
 and environmental history (Bingham, Lorne, Pile, Raghuram, Revill and Van Lieshout).

 b. Networks and partnerships
 Geographers at the OU hold key leadership roles within international research networks to
 implement change driven by geographical thinking. Humphreys has been a leading member of
 the International Union of Forest Research Organisations (led by Yale University).
 Humphreys is Academic Lead on Common Ground’s Sustainability Research Network, chairing
 its annual International Conference on Environmental, Cultural, Economic and Social
 Sustainability, while also serving as a member of the Climate Change: Impacts & Responses
 Research Network advisory board.

 OU geographers actively participate in research networking to embed spatial thinking within
 contemporary social thought and practice reaching across disciplinary and territorial boundaries.
 Raghuram is one of eight Executive Board Members of IMISCOE, a European network of
 scholars concerned with migration and integration. Cochrane has contributed to rethinking
 spaces of urban governance as a member of the international Berlin-Britain Network based at

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Humboldt University and consulting on transnational ESRC project ‘Governing the Future City’.
 Van Lieshout is a member of the European network researching urban water history and
 subterranean heritage, and Lorne established the Political Studies Association speciality group
 Space, Governance and Politics foregrounding why geography matters for political sciences and
 public policy.

 Our research partnerships have generated a wealth of outputs and joint publications.
 Raghuram, Ray and Sondhi have collaborated with IT industry partners in India on a wide
 range of issues including contributing to the annual India Migration Report 2018. Humphreys
 was lead author of a report on the application of UN Sustainability and Development Goal 17 to
 forest conservation policy (with 10 co-authors, including Bhagwat), while Bhagwat was Lead
 Author for thematic assessment on land degradation and restoration, Intergovernmental
 Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), Bonn, Germany
 (2016-18).

 c. Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and other audiences
 Following our research strategy to be open for publics, OU Geography has been an active
 supporter of the OU-BBC partnership, facilitating the production of popular BBC broadcasts and
 accompanying promotional materials, forging new connections between research and public
 education. Academic consultancies in this REF period include:



  BBC TV           Academic      Total series   OpenLearn Enquiries to         Accompanying
  production       consultant    viewers        programme formal               materials:
                                                visits    learning via         public
                                                          OpenLearn            requests
  The Fifteen      Bingham      10 million      31,924    1334                 35,000 posters
  Billion Pound    Revill
  Railway (2017)
  Five Billion     Bingham      7.75 million  3,801       188               N/A
  Pound Super      Revill
  Sewer (2018)
  Hugh’s Wild      Morris       14.39 million 38,131      913               N/A
  West (2018)
  Autumnwatch      Morris       7.28 million  124,494     2,642             96,780
  (2019)                                                                    calendars
  Cornwall: This Bhagwat        13.7 million  25,465      899               30,000 posters
  Fishing Life     Humphreys
  (2020)           Johnson
  Springwatch      Morris       33.5 million  8057        608               N/A
  (2020)
  Green            Revill       7.47 million  N/A         N/A               N/A
  Originals
  (radio) (2020)
    (Data sources: BBC Audience Portal. BARB and Adobe Analytics, collected 3 weeks prior to 6
                                                              weeks after final transmission)



                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our open approach to co-design has generated a host of creative outputs to build and sustain
 our roles and responsibilities as engaged public academics. Through AHRC-funded research,
 Revill worked with primary and secondary school students, composers and sound artists. The
 project’s creative outputs garnered national attention featuring on the BBC R4 Today
 Programme. Revill was interviewed on air (18/07/18) and project sound works were featured on
 the ‘Cerys Matthews Programme’ Radio 6 Music (22/07/18) and ‘The Field Recording Show –
 Sound and Space’ 14/06/20 Resonance FM (London).The film ‘Soundings’ was shortlisted for
 the AHRC Research Film Awards 2019. The project was showcased by AHRC for both their
 interdisciplinary ‘Connected Communities’ initiative and their investment in ‘Heritage’ research.

 Open engagement has been enabled through our research clusters working with a range of
 public institutions, transnational agencies and wider publics. In the Space and Power cluster,
 Lorne has worked with the English NHS and Greater Manchester Combined Authority,
 generating interdisciplinary policy reports to share learning on Greater Manchester health and
 social care devolution, with emerging findings frequently informing the governing body leading
 the £6bn initiative. Lorne also led the production of an evidence-based review on NHS and local
 government reforms funded by the Department of Health and Social Care to inform ongoing
 place-based reorganisation of health and care. Raghuram works with UNHCR to train refugee
 workers and in Campaign for Peace and Justice to change peace education. Raghuram is also
 working with universities and ministries of education in Zimbabwe to alter teacher training
 material.

 In the Culture and Practice cluster, both Revill and Van Lieshout have worked with the heritage
 sector to ensure wider constituencies inform and drive our research agendas. Contributions
 include shaping the Research Framework for the UNESCO Derwent Valley Mills World Heritage
 Site. Revill provided three submissions of written evidence and gave verbal evidence to the
 Parliamentary Select Committee on Coastal Flooding and Climate Change 2019, with evidence
 provided cited in the Select Committee interim report (October 2019), while Pile led a public
 exhibition designed around public engagement as part of the Spirited Stoke (AHRC-funded
 project, 2014-2016).

 In the Environment and Politics cluster, Humphreys gave three BBC interviews on climate
 change (October 2014, April 2019 and February 2020) and has presented his research among a
 wide range of audiences including schools, prisons, Extinction Rebellion campaigns, and
 engineering professionals. Van Lieshout has given invited talks to mining and local history
 societies and developed the public facing digital Atlas of entrepreneurship for the British
 Business Census of Entrepreneurs, while Newman produced guidance for visitors to the RGS-
 IBG archives offering researchers new ways of viewing and working on Geography’s history.

 OU Geography produces and hosts Geography Matters, a series of open public-facing articles,
 videos and podcasts. The Geography Matters digital platform enables the rapid circulation of
 cutting-edge research insights through free, multimedia online materials engaging wider publics
 at a distance (6,559 unique pageviews). Bhagwat led on the production of materials on ‘Eating
 for the Environment’ (13,685 views) and Cochrane on ‘From Brexit to the Break-Up of
 Britain?’ (24,192 views).




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 d. Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society
 OU Geography continues to push the boundaries of geographical thinking within and beyond
 academia through our collective activities.

    i.   Substantive roles in grant assessment panel membership across career stages
 Allen was member of the awarding panel for ‘Leverhulme Prize in Geography’ between 2016
 and 2019. Revill was on NERC Climate Change Resilience grants assessment panels in 2018
 and 2019, NERC Landscape Decision Fellowships panel in 2020, AHRC Changing Landscapes
 grants assessment panel in 2019 and on AHRC Climate Change Resilience: Living with
 Uncertainty grant assessment panel in 2020. Revill was on the Postdoctoral Fellowship award
 committee of Riksbankens Jubileumsfond, Sweden 2018-19 and the Postdoctoral Fellowship
 award committee of TU Berlin 2019. Bhagwat was Member of Assessment Panel for r4d Policy
 Briefs, The Swiss Programme for Research on Global Issues for Development (r4d) and
 Bhagwat was Member of Assessment Panel AHRC Follow-on Funding Highlight Notices for
 Changing Landscapes: Towards a new Decision-Making Framework for UK Landscapes and
 Land Assets, UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund (SPF) Highlight Notice. Bhagwat was Chair of
 Awards Committee, Society for Conservation Biology’s Social Science Working Group (SSWG)
 Early Career Award, Washington, USA (2018-19). Van Lieshout was a member of the New
 Researcher’s Poster Prize committee at the Economic History Society’s annual conference 2019
 and Lorne has served as a peer reviewer for RGS-IBG Small Grants Award in 2019 and 2020,
 as well as for the Independent Social Research Foundation.

   ii.   Significant journal editorial responsibilities
 Our researchers shape international research agendas in and beyond the discipline.
 Raghuram is co-editor for The Geographical Journal; co-editor, Mobility and Politics, Palgrave
 Pivot series; and Associate Editor for South Asian Diaspora Journal. Bhagwat was Associate
 Editor, People and Nature; Associate Editor, Frontiers in Forests and Global Change; and has
 co-edited Special Issues in Sustainability and the Handbook of Indigenous Environmental
 Knowledge for Routledge; Section Editor on ‘Nature, class and social inequality’ in the Sage
 Handbook of Nature. Researchers at the OU widely contribute to editorial boards, such as
 Palgrave Communications, and Subjectivity, Pile; Social and Cultural Geography, and previously
 Gender, Place & Culture, Raghuram; Humphreys and Bhagwat were members of Editorial
 Board of Forest Policy and Economics.

   iii.  Conference organisation to steer research agendas.
 Bhagwat was Member, Conference Committee, Society for Conservation Biology, Washington,
 USA (2016-19). Humphreys was co-chair of conferences between 2017 and 2020 on
 ‘Sustainability Lessons in the Global South: Priorities, Challenges and Risks’ (2020); ‘From
 pedagogies for sustainability to transformative social change’ (2019); ‘Forging solidarity:
 Collective sustainability solutions in a fragmenting world’ (2018); ‘Pathways to sustainability:
 Challenges and opportunities for state and business’ (2017). Raghuram and Sondhi co-
 organised the IMISCOE conference, addressing the implications of the Covid-19 crisis on
 migration. Kullman led a guest workshop with architect Lars Lerup (University of California,
 Berkeley) on building the unfinished in architecture, design and planning.

  iv.   Prestigious invited and keynote presentations.
 Allen was invited to reflect and respond at a panel session to celebrate the 20th anniversary of
 OU Geography’s influential volume ‘Human Geography Today’ at RGS-IBG 2019. Allen also

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gave an invited lecture on ‘Border Topologies’ at Political Studies Association Annual
 Conference Cardiff 2018 hosted by Lorne, and University of Exeter Annual Lecture 2017 on
 ‘Topologies of Power’. Raghuram gave a keynote address on ‘Academic mobilities and
 relational thinking’ at the Beirut Orient Institute's Postcolonial Legacies, Scholarly Mobility and
 Research Capacity Building workshop in June 2017. Raghuram also gave a keynote on ‘Who
 Cares? The (in)visibility of caring responsibilities and working in Geography’ at the University of
 Oxford on 10th January 2019. In 2014 two sessions were organized at the RGS-IBG Conference
 to celebrate the 21st anniversary of Cochrane’s publication ‘Whatever Happened to Local
 Government?’, which led to a symposium published in Regional Studies, Regional Science.
 Humphreys gave a keynote at Eighth International Conference on Interdisciplinary Social
 Sciences, Imperial College, London in August 2016. Humphreys gave a keynote at Institute of
 Chartered Foresters, Annual Conference, Cardiff in April 2015 and was a member of European
 Forest Institute expert panel ‘The future of global forest governance’ workshop in Bonn, in
 September 2018. Humphreys has been a regular contributing author to IUFRO Global Forest
 Expert Panel on Forests and Poverty.

 The OU Geography Doreen Massey Annual Events attract leading national and international
 speakers from academia, politics and grassroots community groups to stimulate interdisciplinary
 discussion and shape agendas in conceptual and political thinking within and beyond
 geography. Channelled through our three research clusters, and generating key academic
 publications, previous events include: ‘digital geographies’, ‘sharing the Anthropocene’,
 ‘Environment engagement and the politics of creative practice’ and ‘Provocations for the present:
 what culture for what geography’. The latter resulted in a themed edition of Social and Cultural
 Geography Bartolini, Raghuram, Revill (editors). OU Geography also worked with the Royal
 Geographical Society (with IBG), and colleagues from across the discipline and beyond the
 academy to host the ‘Geography Matters: Celebrating Doreen Massey’s ideas’ event.

   v.     Wider contributions and esteem indictors
 Allen, Pile and Raghuram became Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences. Blowers
 received the prestigious Alexander and Ilse Melamid Medal by the American Geographical
 Society in recognition of ‘outstanding work on the dynamic relationship between human culture
 and natural resources'. Raghuram received the RGS-IBG Murchison Award 2016 and
 Raghuram was also NUS senior visiting research fellow at the Asian Research Institute in
 2019. Bhagwat was one of four Professors appointed in association with UNESCO Chair:
 Sustainable Heritage and Environmental Management, University of Bergen, Norway (2018-
 2021) and Bhagwat was part of the expert council for Future Fit Business, a charity promoting
 environmentally restorative, socially just and economically inclusive business. Humphreys
 received Honorary Fellowship of the Institute of Chartered Foresters in 2014. Jehlicka won a
 visiting scholarship at Ruralia Institute, Helsinki University, Finland (April 2019). Cochrane held a
 Leverhulme Emeritus Fellowship 2014-2016 and Allen held the Leverhulme Emeritus Fellowship
 2019-2020. Kulman received the Design Studies Award, best paper 2016.

 In summary, throughout the REF period we have focussed on embedding critical theorising
 about space, place and environment in practical problem-orientated research. OU Geography is
 a vibrant department with a strong international reputation for conceptually-driven approaches to
 critical Human Geography. Our commitment to openness harnesses the OU’s unique broadcast
 and digital media capabilities generating and sustaining impactful and meaningful geographical
 dialogue with a diverse range of publics, audiences and constituencies. Current and future


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research strategy will continue to lead innovative, inclusive and impactful research embedding
 engagement and co-production within our research practices through the next REF period.




                                                                                          Page 17
