Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview
This submission includes research from biomedical sciences and diagnostics through to novel
patient care delivery. Our research is organized under five well-established and integrated themes.
1) Biomedical Research and Diagnostics, 2) Appearance and Health, 3) Child Health, 4) Long-term
Conditions and 5) Emergency Care. These research themes are strategically aligned to three
University Research Centres; the Centre for Research in Biosciences (CRIB), the Centre for
Appearance Research (CAR) and the Centre for Health and Clinical Research (CHCR), which
provide research focus, direction and infrastructure. The Unit also has strong links to the University
Institute of Bio-sensing Technology (IBST) and the newly established Health Technology Hub in the
University Enterprise Zone (UEZ). Both IBST and UEZ facilitate regional, national and international
collaborations, support knowledge exchange with industry and healthcare providers, advance
technology to enable people to live independently and manage their health and wellbeing.

The main beneficiaries of the Unit’s research are the health sector (particularly patients and health
professionals) and industry. There are four main types of impact related to the Unit’s research, i)
Commerce and economic impacts, including evidence of improved effectiveness in diagnostics
and healthcare delivery, the development and adoption of new products in industry achieved by
Biomedical Research and Diagnostics and Long-term Conditions. ii) Health, welfare and third
sector impact, including documented changes to guidelines, cost saving for healthcare, improved
care delivery and clinical outcomes and enhancement of patient experience achieved by
Biomedical Research and Diagnostics, Appearance and Health, Long-term Conditions, Child Health
and Emergency Care, iii) Public policy and services impact for patient benefit, including input
and influence to policy debate and change achieved by Emergency Care and Long-term
Conditions, and iv) Building skills, networks and capability, including upskilling healthcare
professionals nationally and globally achieved by Biomedical Research and Diagnostics, Long-term
Conditions, Appearance and Health, Child Health and Emergency Care. There is a strong
collaboration within and between these research themes with staff returned to other UoAs, notably
6 and 20.

1.2 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period
The Unit’s vision in REF 2014 was to ‘deliver excellent user-informed research to generate new
scientific knowledge, and lead to improvements and positive impact on the health and wellbeing of
society.’ To achieve these aims, the Unit has delivered on its strategic plan, which was aligned to
the University’s Research and Impact Strategy 2020. Key examples are provided in this section (a-
f) and further examples and details are outlined in the relevant parts of Sections 3 and 4.

a) ‘To ensure ongoing development of established and emergent areas of research excellence,
addressing national, international, industry and health priorities and ensure long-term sustainability
and benefit’; To achieve this, in the period 2014-2020 the Unit has benefitted from University
infrastructure investment (£12.5M), secured £16.5m of external research income, made new
strategic academic appointments and built staff and PGR capacity through competitive calls for
internal and external funding. These investments supported research and impact in a range of
areas as outlined in b-f, below.

b) ‘To maintain and sustain our collaborative partnerships with academia, industry and healthcare
providers to enhance research and to achieve impact’; The Unit secured £17.6M funding for health-
related research during the REF period, of which £4.5M was received in collaboration with industry.
Highlights include AIRWAYS-2 (out-of-hospital airway management) funded by the NIHR (£858K)
and led by Benger with Voss, the results of which were assessed by the International Liaison
Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) as a “high priority” and informed the publication of the ILCOR

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Emergency Cardiovascular Care Science with Treatment Recommendations. A further
example is the point of care immunoassay diagnostic device with enhanced sample processing and
multiplexing capabilities developed by Luxton, which has been used for rapid diagnosis of Urinary
Tract Infection in GP clinics. This interdisciplinary project was funded by the NIHR (£1.2M).
Furthermore, Killard created the spin-out company BreathDX with the NHS and Metabolic Support
UK, formerly Climb (a leading patient organisation for inherited metabolic disorders). Killard
developed and evaluated a device measuring ultra-low concentrations of breath and blood
ammonia in collaboration with the Birmingham Children’s Hospital (£169K).

International collaborations across the USA, Canada, Asia, Africa, Australia and Europe have been
maintained and strengthened to support research (£4.4M total project funding), publications and
impact. For example, Mytton established the Nepal Injury Research Centre funded by the NIHR
(£2.5M) to address the growing problem of injuries affecting the people of Nepal. Three impact case
studies submitted for this Unit (Saad, Stock and Walsh) further evidence international
collaborations and impact.

We have strengthened our collaborations nationally through continuing membership of the Applied
Research Collaboration (ARC) West (formerly CLAHRC West), the West of England Academic
Health Science Network (WEAHSN), Bristol North Somerset and South Gloucestershire Clinical
Commissioning Group (BNSSG CCG) and Bristol Health Partners (BHP). BHP is one of eight
partnerships awarded an Academic Health Science Centre (AHSC) designation in 2020 for the next
five years. This is a strategic partnership between local universities and NHS organisations that
combines excellence in research, health education and patient care. We lead four Health
Integration Teams (HITs) supported through BHP/AHSC to address key health issues through
research and innovation. The Bristol Bones and Joints HIT led by UWE (Dures) has secured £400K
from NIHR Research for Patient Benefit. Our work with BNSSG CCG has led to joint appointments
including a Professor to support knowledge mobilization and impact and to several research
support roles including two jointly funded posts supporting the preparation of NIHR grant
applications. This collaboration is presented as part of an impact case study (Walsh). Our strategy
also includes jointly funded PhD studentships with the health sector, the third sector, industry and
academia.

These collaborations with healthcare providers and commissioners across the South West, which
includes patients and public groups, have supported the development and implementation of the
Research in Emergency Care Avon Collaborative Hub (REACH). This is led jointly by UWE and the
University of Bristol to provide academic support to local and national healthcare services for the
70,000 people attending Accident and Emergency and the 1M attending GP appointments each
day in England.

c) ‘To strengthen our relationship with patients and the public to ensure their involvement in our
research activities’; The involvement of patients and public remains core to the design and
execution of our research. The University leads the People in Health West of England (PHWE)
public involvement team, which supports collaboration across four health networks within the region
including; ARC, WEAHSN, the NIHR Clinical Research Network and BHP/AHSC. This leadership
role integrates public involvement in all our health research and includes leadership of a work
package on public involvement in a major £6.6M UK non-communicable disease prevention project
funded by the UK Prevention Research Partnership. PHWE was recognised as a unique and
innovative approach to developing public involvement by NIHR INVOLVE in 2016. The Unit also
supports a wide range of public engagement activities (see section 4.5).

d) ‘To target investment in staff and infrastructure to support excellent research and achieving
impact’; We have strategically invested in our staff and infrastructure, which included the external
appointment of 8 research leadership posts (Associate Professor and Senior Research Fellow
posts),16 staff internally promoted and £12.5M infrastructure investment. Key appointments include
a new Professor and two permanent Wallscourt Research Fellows supported through a major
University research investment in priority areas; seven academic posts with 50% ring fenced time
for research and impact, aligned to the priorities of the Government’s Industrial Strategy and UK

                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research and Innovation, and 14 new appointments and internal promotions at Associate
Professor and Professorial levels.

The unit has benefitted from University schemes to support novel and collaborative research for
staff in different stages of their career, including early-career, cross-university and cross-faculty
research initiatives such as the Vice-Chancellor’s (VC’s) Early Career Researcher Awards and the
VC’s Interdisciplinary Research Challenge Fund. Investment has also been made in an Enterprise
Lead to facilitate the interaction between our partners to support pathways to impact, alongside an
Impact Champion and a Research Fellow to support the achievement and evidencing of impact.
The University has also invested in a full-time technician post specifically to support collaborative
research between the Health Technology Hub and Biomedical Research and Diagnostics.

e) ‘Research capacity building to ensure our talented early/mid-career researchers and research
students are well placed to lead future research excellence’; Our strategy has been to ensure
succession planning and growth in key research areas. We made twelve mid-career appointments
and promotions (Senior Lecturer, Research Fellow). Development support for preparing high quality
bids is provided by the VC’s Accelerator Programme for Mid-Career Academics. University-wide
investment through the VC’s Early Career Researcher Awards has supported eight researchers in
this Unit and has led to prestigious funding including three Wellcome Trust SEEDS awards, a NIHR
Knowledge Mobilization Fellowship and an NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) West post-
doctoral research fellowship. Eight academics in the Unit are being supported to complete doctoral
studies as part of the Faculty health-related Doctoral Capacity Building Programme. The Unit has
invested in Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP) including six Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA)
partnership PhDs in Applied Biosciences for Health (£423K), two ESRC funded South West DTP
PhDs and 20 partnership PhDs from the BBSRC South West Biosciences (SWBio) DTP (£3M). We
also supported six postgraduate research studentships that include 50:50 partnership PhDs co-
funded with industry (CEMAG & Aryballe Technologies, Colgate-Palmolive, GeneTools LLC) and
the health sector (West Wales Prostate Cancer Charity Partnership, BRACE, BNSSG CCG). The
Faculty of Applied Sciences, which hosts this Unit, has created a strategic lead for postgraduate
research funding whose role is to drive the development and implementation of the Faculty strategy
for attracting external funding for postgraduate research. We have also supported doctoral students
into research posts at UWE with subsequent promotion to Senior Research Fellow, two of whom
are leading Impact Case Studies (Saad and Stock).

f) ‘Making a positive contribution to our student experience through the integration and
dissemination of our research findings into undergraduate, postgraduate and professional
curricular’. The Unit continues to integrate its research into learning and professional practice.
During the REF period, academics obtained £14.5M for Knowledge Exchange, which includes
consultancies, health education and training. The University has developed Future Space, which
connects entrepreneurs and tech innovators with scientists, researchers and graduate talent.
Future Space provides internships for our undergraduate students to gain entrepreneurial skills with
the Enterprise Lead facilitating the interaction between the various partners and students. The
research findings from the NHS 100,000 Genomes project are used directly in the MSc Genetic
Medicine programme run in collaboration with the University of Exeter, providing training for
postgraduate life and health science students. Further professional development in genomics is
offered to nurses, funded by Health Education England and Macmillan Cancer Support (Varadi). A
new interdisciplinary MSc in Health Technology, based on our biosensing, biomedical and health
research has been developed (Conway). Additionally, three of the Unit’s impact case studies
(Saad, Stock and Walsh) provide further evidence of national and global professional training.

1.3 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
The Unit’s vision is to continue delivering excellent user-informed research, which generates new
scientific knowledge and leads to improvements on the health and wellbeing of local and global
societies. We will continue to ensure that the principles of Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity are
maintained in our research. To achieve these aims the Unit’s ten-year strategic plan, which reflects
the UWE Bristol Strategy 2030: Transforming Futures, will focus on:


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Maintaining and resourcing existing research excellence with impact and emerging research
    strengths aligned to one of four University beacons ‘Health and Wellbeing’ including
    biosciences, health technologies, mental health, long-term conditions, healthy aging, wellness
    and wellbeing, and global challenges
   Continuing investments to develop and support early/mid-career researchers to lead future
    research excellence and impact in health and wellbeing
   Establishing new posts in health technology and ophthalmology to address cross disciplinary
    and multi professional healthcare challenges
   Enhancing our newly established Bladder and Bowel Confidence (BABCON) HIT and
    emerging continence care research bringing together expertise from basic biomedical
    research and clinical practice
   Developing and applying the use of big data in healthcare in collaboration with internal and
    external expertise
   Enhancing clinical trial capabilities and collaborations with industry and healthcare,
    incorporating this into our teaching portfolio
   Achieving outstanding and far-reaching research impacts on business, government,
    the NHS and other stakeholders, communities, society and the third sector
   Maintaining, supporting and further developing existing mechanisms to achieve impact
    including expertise in realist evaluation and knowledge mobilization
   Proactively driving business and community engagement, drawing on our research to inform
    and engage on key challenges and issues
   Supporting and driving the development of a new university Enterprise Park, business
    collaboration and tailored programmes in support of skills and innovation

1.4 How these relate to the structure of the unit and will be achieved
Responding to priorities and initiatives – The Unit’s research aligns to wider international and
national research priorities including the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF), the
Government’s Industrial Strategy and UKRI strategy. These priorities are reflected in UWE’s
Research Strategy 2030 which includes the ‘Health and wellbeing’ beacon. Within this beacon there
are a number of priorities that closely align with the Unit’s research including biosciences, health
technologies, long-term conditions, wellbeing and healthy aging. We will continue to access internal
investments available through University and Faculty research schemes in order to develop
capacity to deliver research with impact and bid successfully for external funding. These include the
Vice-Chancellor’s Early Career Researchers (VCECR) awards, VC Interdisciplinary Research
Challenge Fund, Partnership PhDs, Faculty-funded schemes including Research Establishment
Time for newly appointed academics (in the first 3 years of their appointment), interdisciplinary
collaborative grants, funded research time and cross faculty collaboration opportunities. These
schemes support staff in their research development at various points of their career in activities
such as developing external collaborations, responding to external funding calls, the dissemination
of research and generating impact.

Enhancing our research excellence – The Unit will maintain and enhance the existing structure
supporting research excellence across all five themes noted above. New areas of research in
health technology, ophthalmology and continence care will be located across Biomedical Research
and Diagnostics and Long-term Conditions allowing opportunities for novel cross-cutting
interdisciplinary research. The new technology-facing appointments located in the Health
Technology Hub will broaden capacity for interdisciplinary research and further integration with
industry. Collaboration with the UWE Centre for Fine Print Research, recipient of Expanding
Excellence in England (E3) funding in 2019 (£7.7M), will provide opportunities to enhance our
biosensing research capacity through the development of innovative technologies and new
research appointments. Recent significant investments (£5.4M) to support the newly established
Optometry and Clinical Skills space and a Senior Research Fellow post in Emergency Care
(Schofield) will provide infrastructure to develop these areas of research. This initiative will also
draw on our partnership with the Bristol Eye Hospital where the National Eye Research Centre
(which funds eye research throughout the UK) is based. The Unit’s public facing optometry clinic
will also provide additional research opportunities. Big data and clinical trial expertise will be


                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
integrated across the existing five themes. Our aim to build big data expertise will in part be
achieved through the recent strategic appointment of a Wallscourt Fellow (Smith A) and a Senior
Lecturer (Greenhough) with 50% research time for three years. Previous investment of Higher
Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) monies in a dedicated bio-informatics facility to support health
data use for research will continue enabling the close relationship with the Research Design
Service Southwest. This will enhance existing support for clinical trials going forward. The Unit will
continue to enhance its commitment to public involvement across all its themes, drawing on the
newly appointed Faculty lead for public involvement in research and through continued use of
mechanisms that exist via the UWE led PHWE.

Promotion of research activity, culture and dissemination – We will continue to promote our
research activities in a number of ways. Our research centres will support interdisciplinary working,
and cross-University, national and international collaborations. Our research centres will continue to
facilitate research seminars and annual conferences that include presentations by both internal and
external academics and postgraduate students. Our postgraduate students also run their own
series of biweekly research seminars. Attendance at international and national conferences will
continue to be supported, alongside wider dissemination methods such as web site development,
media presentations, blogs, podcasts and social media. We will continue to develop and promote
our outreach activities with local schools and at science fairs; members of the Unit collaborate with
the UWE Science Communication Unit (a University Centre of Excellence) who provide expertise
on public engagement in science. This will build on previous initiatives such as a joint project with
Varadi to contextualize STEM curricula in schools and raised awareness of the NHS 100,000
genomes project through the BoxED Genomics Medicine Outreach Programme. This was
developed in partnership with Health Education England (£10K) and delivered to over 22,000
children in the southwest region and nationally and featured in the Royal Society of Biology ‘Global
Challenges’ ITN production in 2018.

Supporting impact – We will continue to invest to support and enable research impact across the
Unit, including through the Impact Champion and Research Fellow (0.4 FTE). Planned impact is
mapped using a simple Logic Model which enables the Unit to target resources to develop impact
and collect evidence. Our Unit will continue to draw on the existing expertise available in the
University’s Research, Business and Innovation team (RBI), as outlined in the Institutional
Environment template, and IBST. Led by Luxton, IBST has more than 50 industry partners, a
network of over 800 companies, a total research income of over £30M and three spin-out
companies. IBST plays a prominent regional role through the Local Enterprise Partnership Health
and Life Sciences Sector Group and works closely with MediLink SouthWest, the regional industry
network for the life science and healthcare sectors. McCalley’s impact, as described in his case
study, benefitted from IBST through collaborative work with Agilent Technologies in
chromatographic instrument design leading to more efficient separations of molecules of
pharmaceutical and biomedical importance. IBST’s £1.5M Health Technology Accelerator
Programme, which funded the newly created Health Technology Hub located in UWE’s Enterprise
Zone, will continue to support academics in the translation of research findings into industry. The
Unit will capitalize on this mechanism going forward through working closely with the newly funded
Faculty Enterprise Knowledge Exchange Lead. Our continued involvement in the WEAHSN will
accelerate the spread of innovative, evidence-based care to improve health care quality building on
the approaches used to support knowledge mobilisation (as illustrated by Walsh’s impact case
study).

1.5 Research integrity and governance
We will continue to maintain and develop our research governance (RG) in line with internal and
external requirements. Unit staff are able to access well established structures for the ethical review
of research. Researchers working in the health service are also able to obtain advice and guidance
on external ethics review processes, research passports and NHS Research and Development
from the Faculty Research Ethics Committee and RBI support services. The Principal Investigator
for all research projects is required to complete a RG Record which captures information on all
aspects of governance that are appropriate, including the use of endorsed risk assessments. Staff
from the Unit are members of both the University and Faculty Research Ethics Committees, and

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University-wide committees based in the Faculty that cover Biological Safety, Animal Welfare and
Ethics, Genetic Modification Safety and the use of Human Tissue (led by Conway). A University-
wide RG Manager oversees the development of RG policy, which is driven in the Faculty by the RG
academic lead who chairs a Research Good Conduct Group to support and ensure delivery of good
practice in line with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the University’s Code of Good
Research Conduct. All research data collection must conform to the GDPR2018 regulations and
projects are required to have a Data Management Plan. Regular training sessions are put in place
in the Faculty to ensure all staff are aware of the RG requirements and are kept up to date with new
regulations, procedures and good practice.

1.6 Open research
UWE’s open access policy and strategy have been developed by the Library Services in
consultation with the research community. Academics and doctoral students are offered training on
open access principles and practices and funding is available to support open access charges for
UKRI and other funded research. Academics use a Worktribe repository and an e-Prints data
archive to preserve and make their data accessible. With the exception of embargoed theses, all
doctoral students deposit their data at the time of completion. To support the reproducibility of data
we follow the standard reporting guidelines such as the Journal of Cell Biology, Cochrane review
and Consort guidance. Orchid ID was implemented by all academics. We will continue to employ
the Open Science FAIR principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable) by
complying with funders’ requirements for open access publication.

Section 2. People

2.1 Internal promotions and new appointments
The Unit has worked to ensure succession planning and to strengthen industry and clinical practice
links through new strategic appointments, and the development and internal promotion of staff. The
University, through the Wallscourt Foundation, has invested in two new Fellows (Smith A, Martin)
to enhance our Health Technology and Data Science research; Martin was recently promoted to an
Associate Professor at Coventry University. An appointment at Associate Professor level (Tume)
was made to support the Child Health theme for a period of three years, prior to her promotion to a
post at the University of Salford. The Unit has benefitted from three new appointments offering 50%
research time for three years at Senior Lecturer level; Ndosi, Lewis and Flurey (Long-term
Conditions) and Greenhough (Biomedical Research and Diagnostics). Internal professorial
promotions include: Conway (Biomedical Research and Diagnostics), Mytton (Child Health) and
Cramp F, Walsh (Long-term Conditions). Internal promotions to Associate Professor include:
Mansell and de Lacy Costello (Biomedical Research and Diagnostics), Cotterill, Cramp M,
Dures, Voss, White (Long-term Conditions). Biomedical Research and Diagnostics has also
benefitted from the promotion of Saad to Senior Research Fellow (SRF) and Appearance and
Health research from the promotion of Stock to SRF. Furthermore, the Unit invested in eight early
career researcher posts (Clark, Greenhough, Honeychurch, Lewis, Llewellyn, Pearson,
Thomas A, Williams). Three new Associate Professor roles, a Wallscourt Professor and Fellow
(Mental Health and Wellbeing) have been created to support the Unit’s future research ambitions.
An additional newly appointed Associate Professor post in Food Systems provides opportunities for
collaborative research with UoA6.

2.2 Facilitation of joint appointments and succession planning
To facilitate health service and charitable research, a number of joint initiatives have been
supported. Benger is seconded to the Unit from University Hospitals Bristol (UHB) NHS Foundation
Trust and is the National Clinical Director for Urgent Care, NHS England. He leads the Emergency
and Critical Care research team as part of REACH at UWE, which includes Voss. Following the
retirement of Hewlett, Dures was promoted to lead the UWE rheumatology team based in
Academic Rheumatology at UHB. The team includes Robson, a Consultant Senior Lecturer in
Rheumatology, undertaking research in giant cell arthritis and Ndosi, a Senior Lecturer in
Rheumatology Nursing. McCabe leads a team researching pain, including Llewellyn, a Senior
Research Fellow, based at Dorothy House Hospice. The Centre for Academic Child Health, a joint


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
initiative between the University of Bristol and UWE, promotes the academic study of child health.
Led by Mytton, the UWE team members include Deave and Beckett. Staff are embedded in
external organisations such as the WEAHSN (Walsh), North Bristol NHS Trust and ARC West
(Cotterill, Moule, Cramp M), University of Bristol and BHP (Mytton) to maximise the potential to
undertake research with a clearly defined public health and clinical commissioning need. Since
promotion, Cotterill has been awarded an Emerging Leadership Scholarship by the Florence
Nightingale Foundation.

The Unit is supported by a number of Professors Emerita who were included in the REF2014
submission and retired during the current REF period (Hewlett, Greenman, Rumsey, Salisbury).
These appointments provide important mentorship and have formed part of succession planning in
priority areas. For example, Rumsey and Greenman supported the development of two of the
Unit’s impact case studies (Stock and Saad, respectively). Our commitment to succession planning
is further evidenced by staff represented in the Unit’s submission, 18% of whom are Early Career
Researchers.

2.3 Staff development and support
Academic staff are supported in the following ways: i) All new colleagues are offered Research
Establishment Time (half a day a week for two years for career development purposes; Thomas A,
Clark, Honeychurch, Lewis); ii) Research Progression Time (half a day a week for two years) is
available for those staff who wish to further develop or re-establish their research career (Vahabi,
Thomas R, Craig, Turton); iii) researchers in emerging areas of research excellence have been
supported through Vice-Chancellor’s Early Career Researcher Awards with a total value of £110K
over the period (Pearson, Clark, Greenhough, Craig, Lewis, Stock, Thomas R, Thomas A); iv)
researchers are allocated a mentor to support their transfer to the University and aid in the
development of research capability; v) specialist training and mentoring are provided for bid
preparation, project management, financial and risk management; vi) induction/early mentorship,
appraisal and career development is provided, which includes Doctoral Capacity Building that
currently supports eight academic staff; vii) a performance and development review (PDR) is
undertaken by all staff and used to inform career pathways for research as well as other activities,
in line with strategic priorities. The annual PDR process has informed the internal promotion of
twelve research academics in this Unit. Three research grade staff in the Unit have secured
permanent academic positions as Senior Lecturers at UWE (Honeychurch, Lewis, de Lacy
Costello). The principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
(2008, revised in 2020) have been actively implemented in the Unit in line with the University’s
strategic priorities. As a consequence, UWE has held the HR Excellence in Research award since
2012. The Researchers’ Forum provides a platform for research grade staff across the institution,
giving them a voice and supporting their career development. Its steering group is attended by
Deave. It runs two dedicated events each year as well as feeding into the University’s research
staff development provision. Examples of former early career staff who were supported in the REF
period who have made a significant contribution to this submission as key researchers include
Saad and Dures. To further support staff development, interdisciplinary funding is available through
competitive tendering with colleagues in other Faculties. Recipients include Mansell who created
functionalised bone biomaterials and Lewis who developed a visual hand illusion for the treatment
of chronic pain, both with engineering colleagues. Additionally, academics were recipients of the
VC’s Interdisciplinary Research Challenge funds (£25K each); Conway to study the effects of
dementia with academics from psychology and engineering; Tume to use artificial intelligence
techniques to analyse data from patients in intensive care focusing on sedation, nutrition and
ventilation, to improve treatment in collaboration with academics from computing. Recent cross-
research centre collaborations were supported (£20K each) to develop new testing for diabetic foot
ulcers (Ndosi, Saad, Varadi); to combine biosensing and bioinformatic analysis for the diagnosis of
colorectal cancer (de Lacy Costello, Ratcliffe, Smith A); and to study the impact of COVID-19-
related death on citizens in collaboration with the Science Communication Unit (McCabe).

2.4 Research students
The Unit provides an integrated training, support and learning environment for its postgraduate
research (PGR) students and draws on the UWE Graduate School and Code of Practice for

                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Postgraduate Research Study in this work. A dedicated Faculty Director of Postgraduate Research
Studies (Moss) liaises with the Centres to deliver PGR training. An additional Lead for
Postgraduate Research Funding enables a coordinated response to external PGR funding
opportunities.

Over the assessment period there were 123 doctoral completions (see REF4a). Currently the Unit
supports 45 FTE doctoral students including 17 studentships funded externally from a range of
sources such as overseas Governments (Saudi Arabia, Malawi and Nigeria), industry (Gene Tools
LLC; Colgate-Palmolive; CMAG Consulting, Aryballe Technologies, Petroleum Technology
Development, Invatech Health Ltd and Airbus); charities (West Wales Prostate Cancer Charity,
Arthritis Research UK, Alzheimer’s/BRACE); and UK health research funders (MRC, Public Health
England; NIHR, Solent NHS Trust; NHS Blood & Transplant, Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS
Trust; University Hospitals Bristol; Avon and Somerset Police).

We have six Doctoral Training Alliance Applied Biosciences for Health programme PhD students.
This DTA programme is funded across 20 Alliance Universities and partner institutions, building on
the industry and health focus of the universities. In addition, the Unit’s success in REF2014 enabled
it to become a member of the ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) and to
date has benefitted from two fully funded studentships. UWE received support for 20 match-funded
PhD student positions and five fully funded CASE studentships as part of a £18.5M investment in
the South West Biosciences Doctoral Training Partnership from BBSRC. We were also awarded
two industrial CASE studentships (AstraZeneca/MRC, EPSRC/Philips) and three NIHR Clinical
Doctoral Fellowships. As a result of its strong international reputation, the Unit also attracts self-
funded doctoral students. In this REF period, we have hosted 39 international PGR students from
countries including Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Hong Kong, Italy and the Netherlands. Nine doctoral
graduates completing during this period went on to secure Lectureships or Research Fellow roles at
the University. To further demonstrate effective support and supervision of our PGR students the
PRES 2019 data showed 100% student satisfaction in these aspects. To enhance future research
capability, recent Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professional graduates will be supported
through an ARC West and UWE Internship programme (led by Cramp M) from 2021.

The UWE Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Study is aligned to the QAA Code of
Practice that includes the requirement for annual progression reports from the student and the
supervisory team, and a viva at the end of the first year of full-time study (pro-rata for part-time
students). All students linked to the Unit are members of a Research Centre which provides a
substantial research community and opportunities for personal and academic development.
Students are required to attend the programme of external seminars and present their work as
internal speakers at the annual Postgraduate Forum. They are also expected to actively participate
in an annual review day to showcase research activity organised by their Research Centres.
Biosciences students have access to a newly refurbished graduate centre (£273K) and a dedicated
laboratory bench space and individual workstations. Internationally located students are supported
through regular virtual discussions, as well as having face-to-face support and delivery as part of an
on-going programme of staff visits. All PGR students are members of the UWE Graduate School
(see Institutional Statement). This provides a supportive environment from application through to
graduation. It offers a range of bespoke services to meet individual needs, which includes a training
and development programme for students and supervisors mapped to the Vitae Researcher
Development Framework. The Graduate School also provides networking events and access to
regional and national support. Additionally, UWE offers PGR students opportunities for teaching
supported by a formal training programme.

2.5 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
The University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity policy seeks to develop inclusive and supportive
research environments for all students and staff, where all individuals have the opportunity to fulfil
their potential. This Single Equality Scheme is embedded in the Unit to ensure that Equality and
Diversity covers all aspects of research and knowledge exchange activity. An on-line equality and
diversity training programme is mandatory for all staff. UWE is a Disability and Mindful employer.


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The University supports a range of staff Equality & Diversity (E&D) networks such as those for
Lesbian Gay Bisexual Trans (LGBT) and Black Minority Ethnic (BME) staff, as well as a Women’s
Staff Forum and Disabled Staff Forum. We host expert external speakers including Ruth (now
Baroness) Hunt, former Chief Executive of Stonewall. The Faculty supports an Equality, Diversity
and Inclusivity Task Force, a Widening Participation (WP) Team, a BME Project Officer, and a BME
Task Group to drive equality and diversity agendas. The WP team organizes the Annual UWE BME
conference hosted in the city. Its work includes student research conferences, regular workshops,
one to one BME sessions, staff training and coaching on inclusion and unconscious bias. As part of
the WP initiative staff have access to a number of resources including a monthly newsletter and WP
information board. E&D training is compulsory in all staff inductions, and there is a specific session
on E&D in the Learning Development Centre management training programme, which has been
rolled out over the last two years. Unconscious bias and inclusivity training is provided for all staff
by external trainers.

The University supports the Aurora Advance HE scheme and support for women researchers is
also provided in the Unit as part of the University Women in Research Mentoring Scheme. This
scheme supports women to strengthen their research portfolios to achieve senior research
positions (Saad) and has enabled two women in the Unit to achieve early career researcher grants
(Thomas R, Stock). The Unit includes 60% women, 10 of whom are part-time and four who have
had periods of maternity leave in this REF cycle. The University supports academic research career
progression through an award-winning city-wide Stepping Up BAME Leadership Programme. Unit
staff (Varadi) have benefitted from this through widening their research networks, having access to
external mentoring and acting as ambassadors for equality.

As well as an institutional bronze Athena SWAN award, three departments linked to this Unit hold
current Athena SWAN bronze awards and one a Silver Award. Our commitment to Athena SWAN
principles is evidenced in a number of ways. Senior research leads at Associate Dean and Centre
Director levels are all female. Eight of the 12 professorial/associate professorial promotions over
the period were of females. Maternity, paternity, shared parental, adoption leave, and mentoring
support are provided to all academics and doctoral students. Four colleagues whose work is
included have benefitted from this support including one impact case study lead (Stock). Similarly,
support following long-term ill health and extended compassionate leave for carers has been
provided for four staff in the Unit. The Faculty also supported flexible retirement of five Professors
enabling effective succession planning. As part of our commitment to inclusive principles, significant
investment was made in our laboratories to meet the particular needs of a wheelchair user that
enabled her to undertake laboratory-based studies.

Within the Unit, staff have been identified as having significant responsibility for research, being
independent researchers, and outputs have been selected in strict accordance with the University’s
Code of Practice. This includes selecting outputs on the basis of their quality as determined through
a thorough peer review process involving a panel of senior researchers in the Unit. As stated in the
Code, there was no expectation about the number of outputs any one individual contributed to the
submission. Where it was necessary to choose between outputs of the same quality in order to
reach the required number, account was taken of the distribution of outputs between individual and
across the subject areas of the submission.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research income
The Unit has a total research income of £16.5M during the REF period and has in addition secured
£14.5M for Knowledge Exchange. Research funding has been secured from Research Councils
(MRC, EPSRC, BBSRC), Government (NIHR), Charities (Wellcome Trust, Versus Arthritis, BRACE,
Scar Free Foundation, Breast Cancer Now, Healing Foundation, Best Beginnings, Prostate Cancer
UK, Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy Syndrome Association, Abbeyfield), industry (Colgate-
Palmolive, GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca), the European Union and other international bodies
(Celator Pharmaceuticals; Agilent technologies; Skan AG, Gene Tools LLC; Shriners hospitals for
children; RSDSA; Suva; Scleroderma Clinical Trials Consortium).

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

There has been particular success with NIHR grant funding, especially collaborative projects with
NHS colleagues. Key examples include: Luxton £646K to develop a rapid diagnostic tool which
can be used in GP practices to identify urinary tract infection caused by bacteria and inflammation;
Walsh £598K to evaluate first contact physiotherapy in General Practice (GP); Benger £566K to
evaluate the impact of GPs working in emergency departments to develop the most efficient models
of care; Pollard £29K to study the selection, application and usefulness of quality indicators for
community nursing; Moule and Turton £250K to evaluate the use of prism glasses in stroke
patients in improving spatial awareness; Beckett £193K NIHR Knowledge Mobilisation Research
Fellowship to use participatory theatre to enrich trauma practitioners’ knowledge of the
psychological impact of injury and help them test new strategies to improve patient care; Voss
£124K to evaluate the true burden of dementia on pre-hospital care. Additionally, EPSRC funding
has been secured by Turton £334K and £113K to develop wearable devices to assist mobility.
We have also been successful in obtaining funding from industry. Saad secured £92K from Philips
to develop and test a novel tongue brush and mouthwash to reduce oral malodour; Saad also
obtained £410K from Colgate-Palmolive to test a novel toothpaste formulation; Dures obtained
£120K from Pfizer to develop a skills training package for rheumatology teams, and Killard secured
£78K from Skan AG to test the use of a hydrogen peroxide sensor in a pharmaceutical process
control system. Ratcliffe and de Lacy Costello secured £212K from 30 Technology, £143K from
Thirty Holding Ltd, £100K from Givaudan and £117K from EdixoMed for their volatile detection
research.

The Unit also benefits from a significant donation of £1M from the Vocational Training Charitable
Trust Foundation (VTCT), which has enabled the expansion of the support provided to charities
working directly with people and their families who are living with visible difference as outlined in
Stock’s ICS. The Federation of Ophthalmic and Dispensing Opticians, the leading membership
organization for eye health providers, donated £450K towards the purchase of equipment for
optometry research and education.

3.2 Operational infrastructure supporting research
The Unit’s operational infrastructure for research is coordinated through University Research
Centres led by Directors covering the areas of biosciences, health and appearance research. The
Centres implement the University’s research strategy, support postgraduate research students,
provide a forum for interdisciplinary collaborations and host research events. A dedicated technical
team supports laboratory and clinical research. Centre members provide links with external
clinicians, partners, organisations and funders. For example, two dedicated co-funded posts with
the BNSSG CCG support NHIR bidding (2 x 0.5 FTE). RBI supports all Research Centre activities
through a range of operational services including support for bidding, business liaison, technology
transfer and skills development. As part of RBI’s service, a Senior Research and Business
Development Manager is provided to work with the Faculty. An RBI Impact team liaises with impact
champions associated with this Unit to help plan and support the implementation of impact
activities, including the development of case studies. All research events including conferences are
supported through a Research and Enterprise Event coordinator.

3.3 Specialist facilities supporting research
The Faculty has strategically invested in a leadership role for Public Involvement in Research which
seeks to integrate public involvement across all our health research. We take an inclusive approach
and involve service users and carers in developing research bids, in research delivery and in
dissemination with a view to creating impact. The University-led PHWE public involvement team
plays an important part in supporting staff in the Unit. PHWE has a database and issues regular
newsletters which help connect researchers to potential public contributors. For example, PHWE
helped Cotterill to identify a new area of research related to continence issues in Inflammatory
Bowel Disease and Multiple Sclerosis (MS). The findings of the latter pilot study were presented to
the Progressive MS Alliance Scientific Congress in 2018.

UWE’s Science Communication Unit (SCU) forms collaboration with researchers and practitioners
on projects that aim to close the gap between science and society. For example, SCU worked with

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Craig and de Lacy Costello to disseminate their research findings and make them accessible via
practical public engagement projects facilitated by UWE’s BoxEd scheme, a schools-based
programme designed to help children aged 5-14 develop new interests and skills through creative
and innovative learning activities.

3.4 Specialist research infrastructure and facilities
The University has recently invested over £7.1M in 6,500 m2 of laboratory infrastructure to support
Biomedical Research and Diagnostics. This new refurbishment includes: an electron microscopy
suite; molecular biology laboratories; volatile analysis laboratory; electrochemical sensor laboratory;
microbiology laboratories; and a bioluminescence suite. In addition, a new bioinformatics hub with a
dedicated server and 12 workstations has been developed (£77.7K). A clinical trial facility has also
been created (£23.5K). These facilities are supported by dedicated technical staff.

Long-term Conditions has also benefitted from University investment in a new Optometry and
Clinical Skills space (£5.4M in total), which includes £359K investment in equipment to support
research and teaching, and £480K for Physiotherapy suites. Further investments from the
Biosciences Research Centre (£25K) were targeted to build a clinical trial room for data collection
and to support new collaborative work with Colgate-Palmolive and Aryballe (ICS - Saad).

The Unit benefits significantly from the University Enterprise Zone (£16.5M; 4,100 m2) established
in 2016, as one of four in England, match-funded by the Department for Business Innovation and
Skills and the West of England Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP). UWE Bristol ‘Future Space’
offers flexible support for businesses to grow and develop, providing specialised workspaces and
laboratory infrastructure, and a ‘Launch Space’ to assist entrepreneurial students and academics.
Co-located is the Health Technology Hub, funded through the European Regional Development
Fund and LEP (£5M), which provides commercial and advanced technical support to life science
start-ups. It currently hosts more than 30 companies, many in the life science sector: Atlas
Genetics; CPP Analytics; DoDxAct; eXmoor Pharma Concepts; Merck Serono (CRISPR), and
Pertinax.

The University is committed to fully recognizing technicians as contributors to research projects and
research outputs as a founding signatory to the Technician Commitment (see Institutional
Statement).

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Unit staff have worked with a wide range of international and national partners.

4.1. Health partnerships and networks
The Nepal Injury Research Centre was established through a grant from the NIHR (£2.5M). Led by
Mytton, the Centre addresses an increasing number of injuries from natural disasters, traffic, home
and the workplace affecting the people of Nepal. This collaboration between UWE and the
Kathmandu Medical College also involved the Nepal Red Cross Society and Swatantrata Abhiyan
(a non-governmental organization, NGO) and Mother Infant Research Activities NGO. Appearance
and Health is part of the EU-funded COST Action Appearance Matters network, involving
collaborators from 35 countries across Europe. Williamson and Harcourt conducted a feasibility
study to inform a randomized control trial to evaluate an online psychosocial intervention for young
people with visible difference (YP Face IT) funded by the NIHR (£270K). Further feasibility studies
were conducted nationally and internationally to implement and evaluate the delivery of YP Face IT
to patients with burn injuries (£141K). Additionally, international research led by Walsh has
impacted on the work of physiotherapists in the Health Authority of Hong Kong. The evidence from
the intervention called Facilitate Activity and Self-Management in Arthritis (FASA) underpinned a
culturally adapted version. Walsh’s intervention has been adopted by the NHS and subsequently
delivered to over 20,000 patients resulting in savings of £26.2M to date (ICS – Walsh). Further
Long-term Conditions research was conducted by McCabe that focused on the development of an
international register for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS) which established a large,


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
international network (with over 50 members) of patients, academics, clinicians and representatives
of industry. Related work underpins the development of European and UK guidelines/standards of
care for CRPS, and the development of a new medical device for pain relief. Furthermore,
European collaborations of Ndosi have informed the European League Against Rheumatism
(EULAR) recommendations for the role of the nurse in the management of chronic inflammatory
arthritis. His work also informed the current International Working Group on Diabetic Foot
guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of foot infection in persons with diabetes.

Key areas of research excellence with potential for impact are being enabled through a number of
local and national initiatives. One such example is the ongoing research of BHP/AHSC, established
in 2008. A strategic collaboration between the city region’s major health and academic institutions,
the BHP/AHSC main strategic priority is to develop excellent multi- and interdisciplinary research
that translates into practice and education. This is being delivered through 18 HITs, with four led by
Unit staff (McCabe, Deave, Dures and Cotterill). HITs are cross-organisation interdisciplinary
groups set up to harness research, innovation and education, to tackle major health priorities by
working together in new and different ways. A number of academics from this submission (Alford,
Cotterill, Conway, Cramp F, Deave, Dures, Harcourt, Mansell, Mytton, Palmer, Robson,
Ndosi) are members of the HITs related to Long-term Conditions, Emergency Care and Child
Health. The WEAHSN aims to improve the identification and implementation of healthcare
innovations across the region, ensuring that these translate into patient and economic benefit and
are supported by public involvement. The WEAHSN has supported 70 entrepreneurs and attracted
£19.5M funding into the region. The Unit benefitted from WEAHSN investment in evaluative
research (Moule and Pollard).

A newly established Knowledge Mobilisation team bridging the gap between research and practice
supports evidence-based commissioning and research-informed practice in primary care. This is
funded through the BNSSG CCG and led by a jointly funded UWE Professor post whose work is
presented (ICS – Walsh). A new appointment of a Researcher in Residence (2018) was made to
support Emergency Care research through this fund. In addition, this new initiative led to six new
externally funded projects, a jointly funded DTP PhD student (Walsh, Moule, Pearson) and
contributed to a range of impacts (ICS – Walsh). Further impact includes McCabe, who is
developing a commercially available sensory training system for use at home by people with
persistent limb pain in partnership with the Royal United Hospitals Bath NHS Foundation Trust, and
Voss working with the NHS Ambulance Trusts has developed revised guidelines for the
management of out-of-hospital arrest.

Biomedical Research and Diagnostics academics were involved in obtaining National Genomic
Medicine Centre status for West of England (WEGMC) in 2015, as part of the Government’s NHS
100,000 Genomes Project. The Centre was formed by 20 organisations with education and training
being led by UWE (Varadi) (£150K). Strategic investment has been made to develop genetic
screening/testing to detect: i) white matter brain injury in premature newborns in collaboration with
North Bristol NHS Trust Bristol Genetics Laboratory and the University of Bristol and ii) inherited
haemoglobin disorders in collaboration with Sheikh Khalifa Medical City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates (Varadi). McCalley worked in collaboration with the Antimicrobial Reference Laboratory,
North Bristol NHS Trust to develop tests for monitoring the level of toxic antibiotics. These
commercial tests are now used across Europe leading to enhanced patient safety and have brought
economic benefit to the NHS of approximately £125K to date (ICS - McCalley).
Through collaborations with the University of Nottingham, Deave (Child Health) was co-applicant on
a NIHR Programme grant to produce an Injury Prevention Briefing for early years practitioners to
use with families to reduce home injuries in the under 5s. This document was endorsed by NICE in
2016 and was adopted as a NIHR Signals document in 2017.

4.2 Partnering with charities
Funding from the VTCT (£1M) is facilitating work with the Appearance Collective – a group of
charities that support people with visible differences. The research aims to impact on the work of
organisations including Changing Faces, Cleft Lip and Palate Association, Katie Piper Foundation,
Alopecia UK and Children’s Burns Trust. With the Scar Free Foundation (£157K), Harcourt is

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
testing the psychometric properties of the CARe Burn Scales – a set of burn specific PROMS that
are being taken up and used by NHS burns teams across the UK, these have also been translated
into Finnish. In addition, Williamson and Harcourt are working with the Scar Free Foundation
(£322K) and various military charities, predominantly the CASEVAC club to develop support
interventions for military service personnel and their families, with appearance-altering conflict
wounds. Breast Cancer Now (£242K) funds a study led by Harcourt to evaluate the intervention to
facilitate patient-centred consultations and shared decision-making (PEGASUS) with women
contemplating breast reconstruction.

Further appearance-related research is undertaken by Stock who is involved in a cleft lip gene
bank and birth cohort study drawing on Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC)
data. This provides an opportunity to develop genetic testing with the potential for
national/international impact. Stock’s work in collaboration with The Cleft Lip and Palate
Association (CLAPA) and NHS based clinical units specializing in cleft, has developed a
psychological care pathway for people affected by craniofacial conditions and their families (ICS –
Stock). McCabe is the Head of Research at Dorothy House Hospice, with an aim to enhance and
expand its research activities. In her role as a Florence Nightingale Foundation Clinical Professor in
Nursing, she also hosts charity-funded interns. McCabe, Cramp F and Ndosi host Versus Arthritis
internships for graduate nurses and AHPs.

Conway’s research on Alzheimer’s disease is supported by two PhD studentships from the charity
BRACE. A further PhD project investigating a novel antibacterial titanium implant technology for
total joint arthroplasty is funded by Versus Arthritis (Mansell) (£111K). de Lacy Costello’s
research on the detection of Volatile Organic Compounds for Bladder Cancer Diagnoses was
supported by Cancer Research UK. Ladomery’s research to develop molecular tools to target
specific oncogenes was funded by a Research Innovation Award from Prostate Cancer UK
(£136K). Greenhough’s research to understand hypoxia-induced signaling mechanisms for cancer
was funded by the Wellcome Trust (£95K) and the effects of aspirin on rectal cancer by Bowel
Cancer UK (£25K).

4.3 Partnering with industry
The Unit has excellent links with industry across various sectors. For example, Unit researchers
(Saad, Varadi, Ratcliffe, de Lacy-Costello, Killard, Mansell) collaborate with industry to produce
non-invasive point of care devices aimed at improving disease diagnosis with patient benefit.
Saad works extensively with industry. Of note, Saad initiated a collaboration between Aryballe and
Colgate-Palmolive, who now work together in testing malodour products. The Unit benefits from two
partnership PhDs with Colgate-Palmolive and CEMAG & Aryballe Technologies (Saad, Varadi).
Joint working also exists with Philips and Helperby Therapeutics Group Ltd. (£250K). Through
these partnerships the efficacy of malodour products released onto the market has been improved
and secured significant economic, health, commercial and social impact (ICS – Saad). Further
distinctive research on volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in health and disease is being used to
analyse patterns of VOCs from a range of body sources in a number of disease conditions including
gastro-intestinal disease, bladder and prostate cancers, inflammatory bowel disease and
genitourinary disorders (Ratcliffe, de Lacy Costello). UWE’s IP (patent EP10788038.7) led to the
formation of a new spin-out company NidorDX, created with the Universities of Liverpool and Bristol
with funding from the Wellcome Trust. This will commercialise the OdoReader to diagnose irritable
bowel syndrome. Research-related consultancy projects (totaling £203K) for 30 Technology Ltd
allowed the development of new wound dressings which generate gas to aid the healing of diabetic
ulcers. Promising clinical trial data on wound healing and lung infections helped the company raise
£30M of venture capital funding. Additional support for the development of smart dressing was
obtained from EdixoMed Ltd. (£109K) and Thirty Holdings Ltd. (£143K). Research projects with
Givaudan UK (£117K) have developed odour suppression technologies to aid new product
development.

Killard, through the spin-off company BreathDX, evaluated a device measuring ultra-low
concentrations of breath ammonia (AmBeR) and blood ammonia (AmBIT). The company also
investigates the viscoelastic behaviour of blood during coagulation and has given new insights into

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
a range of haemostatic processes such as clot kinetics and structure. These sensors are intended
to provide self-testing diagnosis allowing the public to self-manage conditions such as Urea Cycle
Disorders, Organic Acidaemia and Chronic Liver Disease. The development of the technology was
funded as part of grants from FP7-ICT Smart Integrated Miniaturised Sensor Systems (£395K),
Innovate UK Biomedical Catalyst (£169K) and Science Foundation Ireland (£19.6M).

Mansell is undertaking collaborative research pertaining to the biological-functionalisation of bone
biomaterials, specifically titanium and hydroxyapatite, funded by NIHR (£372K). This research links
to product development with the dental implant company OsteoCare Ltd in the formulation of
antibacterial coatings for dental implants. The work is also supported by the National Biofilm
Innovation Centre (NBIC) funded by the BBSRC and Innovate UK (£29K).

McCalley works with Glaxo-Smith-Kline (GSK) to improve methods to determine the impurities in
ethical pharmaceutical preparation using a HILIC chromatography approach (ICS – McCalley).
Further work with GSK undertaken by Greenhough, is identifying drugs that can selectively kill
hypoxic cancer cells. This is funded by the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute, University of Bristol and the
Wellcome Trust. Collaboration with GeneTools LLC and OncoTools LLC, Oregon, US led to
Ladomery testing antisense morpholinos targeted against oncogenes (£23K). His research
contributed to the development of a novel anti-angiogenic therapy and to a spin-out company
Emenda Therapeutics.

4.4 Esteem
Recognition of personal contribution to research – The work of two Professors has been recognized
through the award of an OBE; for services to people with arthritis and to nursing research
(Hewlett), and for developing services for people with disfigurement (Rumsey). McCalley was
recognized as one of the World’s 100 most influential analytical scientists by the Analytical Science
EPSRC Web site.

Personal research awards – The Florence Nightingale Foundation awarded McCabe one of seven
prestigious Clinical Professor in Nursing posts that started in 2015. A post-doctoral Nursing
Research Fellowship from ARC West in 2017, a Florence Nightingale Foundation Emerging
Leaders Scholarship in 2018 and a mid-Career Investigator Award from BNSSG CCG Research
Capability Funding in 2019 were made to Cotterill. A further Fellowship was awarded to Deave by
the Institute of Health Visiting in 2015.

Esteemed appointments – Mytton was appointed as a Faculty of Public Health representative on
an advisory group for a National Accident Prevention Strategy launched in Parliament and led by
the Royal Society of Prevention of Accidents and Public Health England. She provided expert
advice on the Quality Standards Advisory Committee for National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence (NICE) on “Preventing unintentional injury in under 15s. Quality standard 107” in 2015.
She was also a peer reviewer for WHO on ‘Preventing Drowning; an implementation guide’ in 2016.
Cotterill advised Government as a member of an All-Party Parliamentary Group for Continence
sitting in 2019. Alford was an expert advisor for the UK Government Committee on Toxicity which
informed the European Food Standards Agency caffeine statement in 2015. Further Government
level advice is provided by Benger who was selected as a National Institute for Health Research
Senior Investigator. This recognises national leaders in health research and reinforces UWE
Bristol’s position as an internationally leading institution in emergency care research. Further
expertise is provided to the NIHR by Stock who is an invited board member of the Cleft and
Craniofacial Clinical Studies group, a post held since 2017. Additionally, McCabe is South-West
Hub lead for the NIHR 70@70 Senior Nurse and Midwife Research Leadership Programme that
started in 2019 and Palmer is expert reviewer for the NIHR clinical and senior clinical lectureship
awards. Conway is a Scientific Advisor for the Alzheimer’s charity BRACE and committee and
conference panel member for ARUK, while Cramp F was appointed to the Clinical Affairs
Committee, British Society of Rheumatology and the National Early Inflammatory Arthritis Audit
Project Working Group. Further rheumatoid expertise was provided by Dures to the Scientific Sub-
Committee of the European League Against Rheumatism Standing Committee of Health
Professionals in Rheumatology (2018) and the UK Occupational Therapy Research Foundation

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Advisory Group (2017). A further appointment in the field of rheumatology was made to Flurey in
2018 as President of the British Health Professionals. Further prestigious rheumatology work is
being undertaken by Ndosi who, as a scientific committee member for the European League
against Rheumatism, is involved in planning the EU Congress of Rheumatology (2019-2021). The
UK National Ambulance Research Steering Group that represents 13 NHS Ambulance Trusts is
supported by Voss, whose invited membership commenced in 2019. Appointments to the Swiss
National Science Foundation, Action Medical Research and EPSRC grant panels were made to de
lacy Costello in 2018/19. McCabe was appointed to the Chief Nursing Officer for England COVID-
19 Legacy Nursing Steering Group, as the Nursing Academic Representative.

Invited presentations – Conway was an invited speaker on the Thiol-based Redox Regulation and
Signalling Gordon Research Conference (Vancouver, USA) in 2015 and Thiol-based Redox
Switches in Life Sciences EMBO Conference (Girona, Spain) in 2016. As a leader in the CRPS
field, Lewis was invited to present at an all-party parliamentary group on CRPS in 2016 and in
2018 was a member of the development panel for UK guidelines on the diagnosis, referral and
management of the disease. The Health Authority of Hong Kong Annual Conference keynote
address was deliverd by Walsh in 2018.

Conference hosting – Saad hosted the International Malodour Conference co-funded by Colgate-
Palmolive and Takasago at UWE in 2019. Luxton chaired the 6th International Conference on Bio-
sensing Technology, held in Malaysia (2019). In a role as Treasurer for the International Executive
Committee for CRPS Special Interest Group, Lewis has organised meetings in Spain, USA and the
Netherlands, with McCabe co-chairing meetings for the group in Japan and Ireland. A conference
officer role was held by Ndosi between 2015 and 2019, for the British Health Professionals in
Rheumatology. Benger with Voss ran a large-scale dissemination event in London (2018) following
the publication of the Airways2 trial when approximately 200 paramedics attended. A further event
in Bristol was attended by 50 GPs, Emergency Department staff and commissioners. The trial
outcomes have also reached more than one million people on Twitter and the study is profiled on
YouTube.

Workshop facilitation – two stakeholder workshops were hosted by Mytton for representatives of
Government Departments, police and non-Government organisations in Nepal with the aim of
informing policy and legislation development to reduce road injuries in children. Hewlett and Dures
delivered a fatigue training day for 40 Rheumatology Nurses in Oslo, Norway (organized by
Novartis), presented at a Regional Postgraduate meeting in Nijmegan, Denmark (‘Fatigue:
Meaning, mechanisms, measurement and management’) and gave invited presentations to a range
of health professionals at various UK locations.

Journal editorship – Biosensing researchers have been instrumental in forming and maintaining the
International Association of Breath Research and an associated academic journal published by the
Institute of Physics, ‘The Journal of Breath Research’ (Ratcliffe). Conway is an Associate Editor
for the Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease. In a role lasting four years, Deave was editorial manager for
BMC Health Services Research. For the period 2017-2020, Ndosi was Assistant Editor for
Rheumatology Advances in Practice. The Cleft Palate-Craniofacial Journal invited Stock to be
sectional editor in 2017.

4.5 Public engagement
Engagement with patients and the public has been central to our research, involving a range of
media, schools and the wider public. The Appearance Matters podcast presented by Unit staff has
attracted nearly 70K listeners in 230 countries and is consistently listed in the iTunes top 100
podcasts for higher education. Everybody’s Different, an appearance board game was developed in
2017 to promote the acceptance of the diversity of appearance and positive body image amongst 9-
12 year olds. Saad was interviewed on the popular BBC science show, ‘Trust me I am a Doctor,’
focusing on health, diet and lifestyle stories in 2016. Further engagement included Saad and
Varadi’s contribution to the Bristol Festival of Nature (2018), which attracted over 15,000 visitors.
Prostate research by Ratcliffe and de Lacy Costello was featured on Canadian Radio and on
BBC Points West (2016). McCabe filmed a discussion with patients on CRPS for BBC Inside Out

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
West. Mansell provided expert input related to his work on titanium plates for orthopaedic surgery
featured on ITV West. Furthermore, Greenhough was interviewed by BBC Radio on his research
in hypoxia (2018) and provided an expert review of the work of the Nobel Prize winners for
Physiology or Medicine (2019) for the Guardian.




                                                                                        Page 16
