Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University, Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 13 - Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Synopsis

 UoA13 at Queen’s University Belfast (QUB) is widely recognised as a centre of expertise for
 architecture and planning for the island of Ireland, with a strong international outlook focused on
 generating and exchanging new knowledge on the built environment. Having laid a solid platform
 in its research capacity during REF2014, our strategy for REF2021 has allowed us to attain our
 key goals: recruiting a new cadre of internationally focused, research-active staff; nearly
 quadrupling PhD completions; increasing research income by 330%; and leading a series of major
 competitively-funded projects. By reorganising our structures and reforming the way we support
 staff, we have created a thriving and inclusive research environment resulting in higher quality
 outcomes and the reorientation of our research around our strengths of health and the built
 environment, urban culture, energy transition, good governance and sustainable communities. We
 have also enhanced our approach to impact, allowing us to create local and international-scale
 partnerships around policy and legislative advice, public engagement and Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (KTPs). This has created a vibrant and diverse community of researchers with a
 strong trajectory for the future, and with research now closely aligned to key societal challenges
 and funding programmes, its sustainability is underpinned by success in attracting, nurturing and
 rewarding research talent.

 1a. Organisational structure, size and context

 UoA13 consists of two complementary research disciplines (Architecture and Environmental
 Planning) and two associated Research Clusters (Culture and Society and Sustainable Built
 Environment), based in the School of the Natural and Built Environment (SNBE) alongside three
 other disciplines (Civil Engineering, Geography and Archaeology, returned in other UoAs). This
 provides a vibrant inter-disciplinary environment, spanning the cultural, economic, social,
 environmental, design, policy and engineering aspects of built environment research (Fig 1).
 UoA13 comprises of 28 permanent staff (27.4 FTE), 7 PDRAs, 41 registered PhD students and 8
 Honorary Professors.

 Architecture (ARC) has 17 research-active staff (16.4 FTE) specializing in areas such as design,
 architectural history, construction management and low carbon urbanism.

 Environmental Planning (EVP) has 11 research-active staff (11 FTE) specializing in areas such
 as energy transition, urban regeneration, sustainable rural communities, urban health and marine
 planning.

 UoA13 has decreased slightly in size (down 4.3 FTE from 32 in REF2014) and has a staff profile
 that is now younger, more research-intensive and internationally-engaged (Section 2b). UoA13
 benefited positively from the creation of SNBE in 2016, which was part of a wider QUB
 restructuring. This merged two previous schools (School of Geography and Archaeology and
 School of Architecture, Planning and Civil Engineering), helping overcome previous structural
 barriers to cross-disciplinary working. This led to the creation of inter-disciplinary Research
 Clusters in SNBE, which act as channels for institutional research support, promote collaboration,
 enhance impact, develop research capacity and facilitate links to wider university structures (Fig
 1). The combination of Research Clusters, revised research strategy and changing staff profile,
 have facilitated a substantial leap in research attainment, consolidating our long-term aim of
 transitioning from practice-orientated research to attracting substantial competitive funding,
 publishing in high impact journals and contributing to global debates.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The Sustainable Built Environment cluster brings together researchers from EVP (7 staff) and
 ARC (12 staff) with those from Civil Engineering (6 staff) to research the processes, interactions
 and technologies required to future-proof human settlements. This has facilitated initiatives that
 have explored innovative and resilient infrastructure, low-carbon communities and buildings,
 healthy urban planning, community engagement and sustainable governance. Successful projects
 emerging from the Cluster have examined the following issues:

       Energy transition (including Architecture and the face of coal: mining and modern Britain
        led by Boyd funded by Leverhulme Trust, City-zen led by Keeffe, funded by EU, Catalyzing
        and Characterizing Transition led by Ellis, funded by Ireland’s EPA, LiftWEC funded by EU
        involving Flannery);
       Sustainability of coastal communities (including MOSES and PERICLES, both funded
        by EU, SHIP, funded by Irish EPA and FAIRCoast funded by Norwegian Research Council.
        All led by Flannery);
       Social economy (including ethical community investment, led by Murtagh, funded by
        Innovate, UK and NI government and the Swedish Research Council);
       Healthy urban environments (including HEAL-India led by Adlakha, funded by GCRF).

 The cluster has also successfully secured four KTPs (Innovate UK plus match funding):
     New software technologies for construction, one with M Donnelly Electrical and one
        with Felix O'Hare contractors (Brooks);
     Urban Resilience, partnered with Ove Arup (McKay);
     Social enterprise and regeneration partnered with the Ashton Community Trust
        (Murtagh, Impact Case Study).

 The Culture and Society cluster brings together researchers from EVP (4 staff) and ARC (5 staff)
 with those from Geography and Archaeology (18 staff combined) to explore past and present
 connections between cultures and societies at varying spatial scales. This has facilitated research

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on issues including urban regeneration, architectural history, legacies of the Troubles and
 population change. Projects from the Cluster have examined:

        Community engagement (including Streetspace, led by Martire, funded through Belfast
         City Council and NI’s Dept of Communities);
        Sustainable Rural Communities (including Stayin[g] Rural project led by Stockdale,
         funded by ESRC-NWO-DFG);
        Urban economies (including From Plantation to Peace, led by Boland and funded by
         Leverhulme Trust and Waldron’s work on neoliberalisation of housing with Dublin City
         Council);
        McAllister’s GCRF award examining inclusive streets in Angola;
        Disaster recovery (Sengupta’s work on Durbar Square, funded by British Academy and
         RIBA);
        Sensory design (Hearing Trouble, Co-I Lappin, funded by AHRC).

 The cluster has also successfully secured two KTPs (Innovate UK plus match funding):
      Enhancing visualisation of urban environments, partnered with Vu-City (Boland)
      Shared space in divided communities partnered with Todd Architects (Mulholland).

 In addition to collaborative opportunities provided within SNBE, our research strategy has also
 built upon the wider university structures for inter-disciplinary research (Institutional Statement,
 2c): the Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice (for which Kacmaz Erk is an
 Associate Fellow), Centre for Evidence and Social Innovation, CESI, (for which Murtagh acts as
 lead for the Sustainable Cities and Communities theme) and Centre for Excellence on Public
 Health (contributed to by Adlakha and Ellis). Effective collaboration has also been further
 facilitated by the inter-disciplinary Doctoral Training Centres that have been developed during this
 REF period, including Northern Bridge (AHRC), NINE (ESRC) and Bryden Centre (EU Interreg).

 1b. Research and Impact Strategy

 We have been pursuing a long-term strategy to evolve our research environment from being
 traditionally aligned with the delivery of accredited education and professionally-guided projects
 to one that stimulates rigorous, conceptually-driven, internationally-orientated and inter-
 disciplinary research. This strategy has driven revised structures, working arrangements and
 adjustments to our staff profile (Section 2b), which has enabled a virtuous cycle of securing larger,
 more competitive grants (Section 3a), increasing the number and quality of our PGR students
 (Section 2e), producing higher quality research outputs that have a greater impact (Section 4) and
 fostering new areas of research (e.g. marine and health). Such developments have then nurtured
 a positive atmosphere of intellectual enquiry, research ambition, enhanced collaboration, and an
 increased focus on contributing to major social challenges. This, in turn, has created opportunities
 for staff and students to engage internationally and allowed us to attract outstanding PGR/PDRAs,
 for example in MISTRAL ITN and partnership with RMIT (Section 2e).

 Our future strategy in REF2014 aimed to extend our international collaboration and enhance the
 quality of our research outputs. This has been successful, largely for the reasons above, which
 allowed us to take advantage of new avenues of funding such as the Newton Fund (e.g. HULAP),
 ESRC/NERC Belmont (e.g. M-NEX), GCRF (e.g. HEAL-India, Ageing in the Global South) and
 existing opportunities such as through the EU (e.g. City-zen, MOSES). REF2014 also aimed to
 foster excellence in design, which we took forward through staff investment (Jefferies, Niblock,
 O’Grady, Turner), high-profile design projects (Moore: Red Pavillion, O’Grady Built East), the
 introduction of an Architecture PhD by Practice partnering with RMIT in Australia (Section 2f) and
 social engagement around design (Streetspace).

 Our REF2014 statement also noted our ambition to promote impact and social engagement,
 encourage partnerships with non-academics and increase our focus on complex global
 challenges, to align with QUB strategic goals. Although our disciplines have had a long tradition

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of effective knowledge exchange, this has been further enhanced during this REF period due to
 our strategy that created dedicated impact roles, new forms of dissemination and knowledge
 exchange (KTPs, social media) and orientating research to specific Sustainable Development
 Goals (SDGs). Our Impact strategy has involved creating an UoA13 Impact Champion, who sits
 on the School Research Committee and Management Board, ensuring that our impact aspirations
 feed through to SNBE strategic decisions. We have been aided by invigorated University support
 for impact (Institutional Statement, 2d), a new PhD route (Section 2e) and encouragement for staff
 to take advantage of opportunities such as the NI Assembly’s Knowledge Exchange Seminar
 Series (section 4c) and Impact Acceleration Awards (Sengupta, Adlakha, Ellis).

 We contribute to, and draw inspiration from, the regional context of Northern Ireland, where we
 have been able to enhance and deepen impact through our commitment to open research (Section
 1e) and by using the School’s workload model to accommodate service-to-society through applied
 projects, advocacy and advisory activities. This includes supporting Martire’s involvement as Vice-
 Chair of Save the Cathedral Quarter; Murtagh’s work with Ashton Centre; and McAllister’s work
 on autism (with Derry City and Strabane District Council). Our impact strategy has also informed
 our approach to research-led teaching, involving our students in impact activity (Flood’s work with
 Public CoLab, recognised in a QUB Teaching award) which also help us contribute to the
 University’s Social Charter.

 A fundamental part of our strategy has been to combine our aspirations for well-funded research
 and outputs with those for impact through projects on societal challenges (food-water-energy in
 Moveable NEXUS, healthy-ageing HEAL-India/HULAP and rural sustainability, Stayin[g] Rural)
 and responding to research calls where we feel our expertise can help shape policy (Holistic
 Sustainability Performance Assessment of Irish Ports/Harbours commissioned by the Irish EPA
 and Environmental Planning after Brexit, commissioned by the RTPI). We increasingly use non-
 academic stakeholders to advise and promote impact in research grants (e.g. Belfast Healthy
 Cities involvement in HULAP and Belfast Harbour in MOSES), which, combined with our KTPs,
 has helped embed knowledge exchange at the core of our investigations. We also encourage staff
 to undertake public-good consultancy (Ellis’s projects with Ireland’s NESC on energy transition
 and McIlwaines’s work with the World Bank to reform Saudi Arabia’s waste management system).
 We have had success in promoting KTPs, with six partnerships during this REF period (Sections
 1a/4b), helping us to strengthen the effectiveness and application of our research.

 Our strategic outlook for the 2021-2026 period seeks to consolidate these achievements and take
 advantage of the opportunities created by QUB’s Research and Innovation Strategy (2020-2030),
 with a key focus around the SDGs. We believe this will allow us to target our research more
 effectively to where we can make a difference, better align our work with funding opportunities and
 further catalyse the inter-disciplinary environment we have created. We are also aware that current
 threats, including COVID-19 restrictions, the impact of Brexit and a potential recession could
 fundamentally alter the landscape of our research, for which we will have to be ready to respond.
 Therefore, while we will retain the flexibility to respond to such threats, our priorities for 2021-2026
 are to:

    Further build and sustain research expertise to continue our high-quality programmes of
     work, particularly in our strengths in energy transition, health, urban regeneration, marine
     planning, sustainable rural communities and design; all of which align closely with SDGs;
    Maintain a recruitment strategy based on attracting high quality, diverse research talent
     (Section 2) to match the expected retirements (c.4 staff) to 2026;
    Continue to support staff as they consolidate their careers and nurture their research
     standing (Section 2c) so that a wider range of staff lead successful competitive proposals
     and enhance both our capacity and performance;
    Consolidate the development of our PhD programme and sustain the diverse sources of
     funding; through further UKRI, DTPs and ITN initiatives (Section 2e);
    Continue to create new areas of interdisciplinary collaboration within the School, University
     and with other HEIs, with an emphasis on the interface between social science and
     technological development in the built environment;

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Maintain the growth of our research income and seek new international opportunities for
     funding that may emerge from: post-Brexit settlement; responses to COVID-19; and new or
     established funding sources, such as future City Deals, the Levelling Up Prospectus or from
     the UK Industrial Strategy;
    Extend the reach of our research by continuing to invest in knowledge exchange through
     appointing further Professors of Practice and encouraging staff to contribute to external bodies
     and communities through KTPs, secondments and advisory roles;
    Protect the elements of our Workload model that facilitate high-end grant capture, impact and
     unfunded research.

 1c. Interdisciplinary research (IDR)

 As noted above, we have developed Research Clusters (Fig 1) to enhance our inter-disciplinary
 research, complemented by links to other centres in and outside the University. The Clusters
 support this by providing an integrated research management and budget structure, while
 promoting collaboration between disciplines. Evidence of such outcomes includes GCRF grants
 on Healthy and Active Ageing (a Colombia project involving Adlakha [EVP] and Jefferies [ARC])
 and Investigating the City: Investigando a Cidade (an Angola project involving McAlister [ARC]
 and Galway [EVP]); H2020 funded LiftWEC (involving colleagues from Civil Engineering with
 Flannery [EVP]) and an Innovate UK-funded project LowCoPreCon (Mariotti [ARC] with Civil
 Engineering and colleagues in Malaysia).

 As noted in Section 1a, the development of our research has also benefited from our engagement
 with the wider university ecosystem. Examples of how these have stimulated work in UoA13
 include Murtagh’s lead on the Sustainable Cities and Communities theme in the Centre for
 Evidence and Social Innovation (CESI); Adlakha and Ellis have had several successful
 collaborations with researchers from the Centre for Excellence in Public Health (ESRC-funded
 HULAP, MRC-funded PARC); and Erk leads the interdisciplinary Cinema and Architecture in the
 City research group (see output 119720242).

 Our increased focus on complex social challenges also stimulates inter-disciplinary collaboration:
 Keeffe’s work on the food-water-energy nexus (Moveable NEXUS) involves trans-disciplinary
 living labs in six global cities; Jefferies’ work on Smart Cities (CityVerve) has involved a wide range
 of urban actors; Stockdale’s ESRC-NWO-DFG funded Stayin[g] Rural project involves planners,
 demographers and geographers; Ellis’s UKRI-NHMRC funded Vision for Healthy Urban Design
 project is bringing together researchers from planning, architecture, public health, and computer
 science; and MOSES involves economists, anthropologists, sociologists and planners to foster
 sustainable blue growth.

 1d.Open research

 We have benefitted greatly from the wider university arrangements for open research (Institutional
 Statement, 2f) including open access publishing and data management. This has encouraged
 open access to peer-reviewed research and ensured data is lodged with QUB’s public repository.
 We encourage public interest in our research through a suite of activities, including free regular
 research seminars advertised through our social media accounts (Twitter: @PlanQUB,
 @QUBarch, @QUBNBE), Blogs (for example Murtagh with LSE economics) and through a
 maintained email list of policy, professional and practice contacts. We also seek to reach out to
 different parts of the non-academic community through our collaborative practice events (Section
 4c), such as our popular Planning the Post-Pandemic City Online Lecture Series, which had up to
 600 registrations for one talk, and attracted viewers from over 40 countries. We also disseminate
 our research through channels such as The Conversation (e.g. https://bit.ly/32BirCF,
 https://bit.ly/3lnzb6P) and encouraging staff to contribute to local and national media (e.g. BBC
 Home Ground). This approach to open research has also allowed us to undertake a number of
 projects that have been built upon community input (City-zen, Streetspace).


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1f. Research integrity and ethics

 Our approach to research governance has been extensively restructured over this REF period. A
 new Faculty Research Ethics Committee has been established, chaired by Murtagh, with
 representation from UoA13 disciplines. This has facilitated a culture that nurtures an
 understanding of the ethical implications of built environment research, helping us to align with the
 UK Concordat for Research Integrity. QUB has also established a new Research Governance and
 Integrity Committee, with Murtagh as Faculty representative, that ensures a more integrated
 approach between ethics, standards of conduct, support for PGRs/ECRs and stronger
 mechanisms for complaints and redress. The expansion of our PGR and PDRA community has
 also enabled us to scale-up our training, technical support and access to online resources on
 ethics and data compliance. For example, the EU-funded MISTRAL operates a systematic training
 programme on environmental ethics, research ethics, delivering responsible fieldwork, and critical
 reflection on practice. This involves experts across QUB and the UK as well as site visits to look
 at particular operational challenges (such as dealing with uncomfortable knowledge in the field,
 disclosure and consent) and is open to the wider UoA13 research community. There are also
 strong links to professional codes of practice (RIBA, RTPI and RICS) to underscore the importance
 of ethics, integrity and standards of conduct. We have developed support systems (direct access
 to Information Compliance staff, online resources and formal training) that sees ethics, privacy
 and conduct, not as a regulatory mechanism, but as a vital and creative part of the research
 process.

 2. People

 Synopsis of the approach to ‘People’

 UoA13 at QUB is a relatively small, cohesive and diverse group of researchers. Over this REF
 period, we have used recruitment of high potential ECRs to help achieve the aims of our research
 and impact strategies (Section 1b), while successfully expanding our PGR community and
 creating a more vibrant environment for all staff. We have retained a strong cohort of experienced
 researchers, including international leaders in their field, and a large group of younger staff who
 are rapidly developing their reputations (Section 4b, best paper awards). We have reinvigorated
 our mentoring activities to help create a more balanced and integrated staff profile. This has been
 accompanied by a growth in our PhD programme (our PGR community is more than five times its
 size in December 2013), many linked to our large competitive grants, such as NINE and MISTRAL
 (Section 3). These changes have been accompanied by an increased emphasis on collaboration
 and inter-disciplinarity, so we are effectively staffed to deliver on our priorities for 2026 (Section
 1b).

 2a. Staffing profile and recruitment

 As noted in Section 1a, UoA13 has reduced slightly in size from REF2014. Due to five retirements
 and some staff taking positions in other institutions, only half of those returned in REF2014 are
 included in REF2021. This turnover has created valuable opportunities to align staffing with our
 research strategy and we have made thirteen new appointments (including twelve ECRs) and
 eleven internal promotions since REF2014, as we have sought to nurture future leaders. Our
 recruitment has also been successful in diversifying our staff: we have increased the proportion of
 female staff (37% in 2014 to 47% today) and now have a majority of overseas staff (44% in 2014
 to 52% today). Some of our appointments were made to enhance our knowledge exchange by
 recognising the experience of professional practice (McIlwaine, Brooks, Flood, Turner). This has
 been strengthened by the appointment of our first Honorary Professors of Practice; John Cole
 (former Chief Executive Northern Ireland Health Estates Agency), Angus Kerr (currently Chief
 Planner of Northern Ireland) and Paul Roberts (ACDL social enterprise). We also appointed other
 Honorary Professors; Julia Barfield (Marks Barfield), Gary Clarke (HOK), Hugh Ellis (TCPA), John
 McPeake (former CEO of NI Housing Executive and Chair of the NI Federation of Housing


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Associations) and Huw Thomas (Emeritus, Cardiff University) who provide training and mentorship
 opportunities for our staff and PGR.

 This changing profile has accelerated our transition from practice-orientated research and
 pedagogy to more international, challenge-focussed with a much broader portfolio of knowledge
 exchange. We have been able to mentor ECRs through probation and beyond, integrating them
 as CIs on major research projects (Adlakha on ESRC-funded HULAP, Marrotti on Innovate UK-
 funded LowCoPreCon). This process is showing evidence of success, as Brooks and Mullholland
 now lead KTPs, ECRs have taken on PI roles (Adlakha: HEAL-India, Ageing in the Global South)
 and have been recognised for their research excellence (Section 4b).

 UoA13 staff are managed through a tiered and interlinking structure of leadership that has
 separate Heads of Discipline for Architecture (Lappin) and Planning (Flannery), who act as line
 managers for non-professoriate staff, allocate workload and balance teaching with research
 activities. The School also has Directors of Research overseeing each of the Research Clusters,
 encouraging inter-disciplinary activity, coordinating major grant-based initiatives and shaping the
 strategic direction of research. The School Director of PGR (Boland, from UoA13) oversees the
 PhD programme. We have an Impact Champion for the UoA13 (Ellis) to encourage and coordinate
 non-academic engagement with our research activities. The Head of School (Keeffe, from UoA13)
 line manages the Professoriate, provides a key interface with the central University directorates
 and oversees the School Research Committee, which provides strategic direction for our research
 activity, including identifying areas for new appointments and other major investments. Other
 leadership roles include Pathway Directors in Doctoral Training Programmes (Flannery for ESRC-
 funded NINE) and a lead for research ethics (Murtagh, Section 1e). All staff in the School attend
 an annual Research Away Day, complemented by more regular forums at disciplinary and Cluster
 level that allow all staff to contribute to the development of research strategy, for example, the
 emergence of the inter-disciplinary clusters after the formation of SNBE in 2016.

 2b. Staff development and career progression

 Supported by the University’s ‘People First’ strategy (Institutional Statement, 3a), SNBE
 recognises the primacy of staff development and well-being as a critical element of research
 excellence, so strives to provide an intellectually stimulating, well-resourced and supportive
 environment for staff at all career stages. The most important way we do this is through fostering
 a collaborative and open culture in which all staff can engage in the development of the School,
 communicate their enthusiasm for their research, and be aware of available institutional support
 (Section 2b). We seek to ensure that all staff, irrespective of grade or other personal circumstance,
 have equal opportunity to take advantage of training and career progression (Section 2f). The
 success of our overall support is evidenced by a high proportion of staff that have been promoted:
 41% of all UoA13 staff promoted since 2014, 50% male/female, the majority of whom have
 significant caring responsibilities.

 We ensure the needs and aspirations of all staff are addressed through a process of Personal
 Development Review, which creates a framework for an ongoing conversation on career
 development, alignment with school priorities and required support, which then feeds into School
 strategy. The University has several reward/recognition schemes, such as Exceptional
 Discretionary Awards (Martire 2017 for StreetSpace), Dean’s Prizes (Murtagh in 2018 for his role
 as Chair of the Faculty Ethics Committee) and an annual Vice Chancellors Research Prizes
 (Murtagh in 2018 for research impact, ICS).

 During this REF period, we have introduced a new Workload Allocation Model (WAM) that not
 only sought to balance research/administrative/teaching roles, but also align responsibilities with
 our strategy of securing larger, inter-disciplinary grants, developing new research areas, growing
 our PGR and enhancing impact (Section 2b). We therefore ensure all research-active staff are
 allocated 20% of their time as a Personal Research Allowance to cover service-to-society and
 scholarly activity; a variable Structured Research Allowance that provides 30 days for proposal
 writing; and a variable allocation according to the level of funded work and PGR/PDRA

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervision. The success of this is evident in our improved income and PGR profile. For more
 strategic goals, we have a rotating research-leave policy to facilitate ambitious projects; staff can
 request leave at the rate of one teaching semester per three years’ work (or one year per six
 years), which is usually granted on the basis of an agreed delivery plan. During the REF period, 6
 (21%) of academic staff in UoA13 (3 female, 3 male) have had such research leave. This has
 enabled major grants to be secured (Ellis’s successful application for an EU-funded Innovative
 Training Network, MISTRAL, Flannery’s application for SHIP and LiftWEC and major publication
 projects with Erk completing a book in 2020).

 We also recognise that staff at all stages of their career benefit from regular skills development,
 and are encouraged to attend courses offered by the QUB’s Staff Learning and Development
 Programme, covering research techniques, productivity, social engagement, and IT skills. External
 training is also supported, such as funding staff training on BIM. Female staff are encouraged to
 take part in the Advance HE Aurora Leadership Development Programme (Flood and Lappin).
 The support targeted at ECRs and PGRs is discussed in Sections 2d/2e.

 We also seek to create development opportunities at discipline level and embed these in the way
 we generate cross-fertilisation and vibrancy in our research culture; for example, we encourage
 staff to invite strategically important researchers and/or potential collaborators from other
 institutions to take part in our seminar series, use these to discuss collective training needs and
 aim to address these in disciplinary away days and our Annual School Research Day.

 2c. ECRs and post-docs

 Our ECRs have made a substantial contribution to this REF submission, which we take as an
 indicator of success in our recruitment strategy and reflective of the supportive research culture
 we have nurtured. We recognise this as the most critical component of a sustainable and quality
 future research environment. We have recruited 12 ECRs since 2014 (92% of recruits and 44%
 of our FTE); all have been provided with a senior mentor, allocated an initial light teaching load
 (30 days pa, rather than 70) and required to undertake training (including Supervising Research
 Students and PGCHET) to develop their research, leadership and teaching skills in line with the
 Researcher Development Framework, the Concordat to support the Career Development of
 Researchers and the European Charter for Researchers. ECRs also enjoy priority access to ring-
 fenced NI Department of Economy PhD studentships (50% of our PGR students have had ECR-
 supervisors during his REF period), and an informal peer review system to support them to prepare
 grant proposals. All incoming academic staff are given a £10,000 start-up package to kickstart
 their research activities.

 There are clear indicators that this approach has been successful: all staff recruited during this
 REF period are still in post, all eligible staff have completed their formal probation period (and two
 staff completed probation early due to exceptional performance), and of the 8 lecturers returned
 in REF2014, 75% (n.6) have been promoted during the REF period. Furthermore, the research
 undertaken by our ECRs are being recognised for excellence through external (see Section 4b)
 and internal (2c) prizes and awards.

 We recognised that we needed to better support our PDRAs and research contract staff, so have
 established a mentoring programme for them to support skills such as proposal writing, time-
 management and employability, which complements the University Post-Doc Mentoring Group
 and ensures that this group of are represented on key School Committees.

 2d. PGR students

 The relatively small number of PhD completions reported in REF2014 was seen as an area
 needing further development, so a key strategy has been to expand and invigorate our PGR
 community. This has been a challenge as during this period there has been a substantial reduction
 in core studentships available from NI Department for Economy, so we developed alternative

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sources of support from a wider range of sources, including UKRI joint-doctoral training
 programmes (AHRC Northern Bridge and ESRC NINE), EU-Interreg (Bryden Centre) and led the
 EU-funded MISTRAL ITN. We have also secured individual studentships through competitive
 schemes run by the Irish Environmental Protection Agency and the Marine Institute, as a
 component of major grants and by attracting larger numbers of overseas students funded by the
 Chinese Scholarship Council and Conservation International. In REF2014, 63% of our PhD cohort
 were directly funded by the NI Government, while in this period it was only 20%. We are continually
 reviewing how best to attract and support PGR students and are now particularly focused on the
 consequences of Brexit in the coming years.

 As part of our impact strategy, we have also pioneered new approaches to doctoral research and
 established a PhD by Practice (Architecture) under a joint-degree agreement with RMIT
 Melbourne, for candidates with an established body of peer-endorsed design practice work. This
 involves a series of practice research symposia and culminates in a public viva. We currently have
 5 registered students, and have had three staff members graduate through RMIT on this pathway.

 The creation of better interdisciplinary links across the School has also benefited PGR students
 and UoA13 staff co-supervise students in other disciplines (in geography, civil engineering,
 psychology, music and politics) as well as in other institutions (see section 4b). As part of our wider
 research culture, we regularly host PGR students from other institutions (University of Tours,
 University of Groningen, Von Thunen Research Institute) and have an annual Joint Planning-
 Architecture PGR conference with UC Dublin.

 We have enhanced the training environment for all our PGR and introduced a M.Res in
 Environmental Planning that provides a research training platform for doctoral study, supported
 PGR Erasmus placements (e.g. Moon at Radboud University, Nijmegen), introduced work-based
 secondments for PGR (Miller at the National Economic and Social Council), summer schools
 (MISTRAL) and facilitated other types of external engagement (Hanna elected as Secretary of the
 Royal Geographical Society Postgraduate Forum). PhD students receive at least 30 days of
 training over their three years of study, with the QUB Graduate School providing general skills
 courses (presentations, software training), supplemented by discipline level specialist training
 (discourse analysis, GIS, impact, ethics) and career guidance. An annual research-support
 allowance of at least £500 is available to all students and additional funding for conferences and
 specialist equipment is channelled through the Research Clusters.

 PGR Training is coordinated by the Postgraduate Research Committee and we have a PGR
 Student Voice Committee (chaired by Black, PGR Planning) that facilitates wider conversations
 about the student experience. Each student has at least two supervisors, and all but the most
 recently recruited staff have been involved in supervising students during the REF period.
 Supervision proceeds in line with the University's Postgraduate Code of Practice, supported by a
 dedicated progress panel for each student, which meets twice in their first year and annually
 thereafter. The University's Research Student Lifecycle provides supervisory teams with online
 visibility of students' progress. All PGR students are encouraged to prepare a Career Development
 Plan and review this annually with their supervisors, to prepare three-minute thesis video (example
 here), and as an intrinsic part of our research community PGR take part in research activities at
 all levels of the University.

 Our PGR strategy has been highly successful. We have had a substantial increase in the number
 of PhD completions compared to REF2014 (29 completions compared to 8 in REF2014), had 99
 registered PGR students over the REF period and have a current active cohort of 42 students
 (compared to comparison to 8 in December 2013). The shift to a wider range of funding sources
 has also increased the diversity of PGR students (we had 2 students from outside the UK in 2014
 and currently have 15, and our REF2021 cohort has been 52% female) and the competitive nature
 of these new sources has increased the quality of our candidates, with a higher completion rate.
 Our success is further underwritten by the trajectory of our recent graduating students going on to
 full-time positions (Kou at Changsha University of Science & Technology), employed in the School


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as researchers (Ferguson, Kelly, McAteer, Cullen, Grounds, Jenkins, Han, Campbell) or academic
 staff (Moore, Mullholland).

 2e. Equality and diversity

 QUB is committed to the promotion and development of equality and diversity of staff and students,
 and the Institutional Statement, (3d) reflects wider initiatives that support this, including its
 Institutional Silver SWAN Award, the Gender Initiative, Disability Action Plan, and other policies
 such as parental/carer leave. All staff undertake annual mandatory Equality and Diversity training,
 receive training for interview panel membership, and SWAN Champions sit on promotion panels.
 Through our Faculty, we have also been part of an EPSRC-Funded SENSE Network partnership
 on 'Inclusion Matters’ that has explored the attitudes of academics towards gender equality
 initiatives and built training tools aimed at improving their perception in engineering and physical
 science. We have School-wide policies supporting flexible, family-friendly working arrangements
 and a healthy work-life balance including a semester free from teaching when returning from
 maternity/adoption leave, defined core hours and collegial code to uphold SNBE’s core values.

 We are also committed to fostering a safe, welcoming and inclusive environment and have aimed
 to diversify our staff through this REF period (Section 2b). We currently have 13 female research-
 active academics and 15 male staff in UoA13, and 15 international staff (from a wide range of
 European, Asian and Latin America countries). We have 10 staff at Senior Lecturer/Reader level
 (5 female and 5 male), and 6 at professorial level (1 female to 5 male). One of our Head of
 Disciplines is female (Lappin), but the imbalance within the professoriate is a continuing issue. As
 noted in Section 2e, our PGR community during the REF period has had a good gender balance
 (52% female, 48% male) as has our PDRAs (60% female, 40% male).

 The need to better support the career progression of women has been a particularly important
 objective during this REF period, and we have used the SWAN process as a key vehicle to
 continue to deliver this. Although our predecessor school held an Athena SWAN Silver Award
 (2010-2015), as a new school, we have had to re-apply and submitted an application in December
 2020. Our Action Plan focused on encouraging more female staff to apply for leadership roles and
 the appointment of female staff to positions such as Head of Architecture (Lappin) and PGT
 Director (Sengupta) highlight the success of this. This has been further supported by encouraging
 staff to undertake internal and external leadership training (Section 2c). Alongside this, UoA staff
 lead key 'beacon' roles in industry, holding positions in 'Women in Architecture' panel in the RSUA,
 (Lappin, Mulholland) and appointed to Ministerial Advisory Board for Architecture and the Built
 Environment NI (Mulholland).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. Overview of research grants/income and strategies for funding

 As noted in Section 1b, our REF2014 submission highlighted a core goal of increasing and
 diversifying our grant income. We achieved a substantial increase in our research income from
 £2.13m in REF2014 to £7.02m in REF2021. Thus, our overall income/FTE was £66,600 in
 REF2014, and £256,193 in REF2021; and annual income/FTE was £13,300 in REF2014 and
 £36,599 in REF2021. Most of this increase has come from more competitive sources: the value
 of UKRI, UK Government and EU Government grants have increased threefold, and competitive
 funding from UK-based charities by nearly nine times; indeed income increased substantially from
 almost all sources. This has been achieved by reorganising school research structures, increasing
 staff ambition, providing dedicated time in our workload for developing research proposals and
 adopting better ways of sharing experience in proposal success (through including ECRs on grant
 applications, peer review of proposals and mentoring). This has followed QUB’s Strategy for
 increasing research income and has benefitted from the enhanced research support at University
 level (Institutional Statement,4).

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The increase in funding has allowed us to lever wider improvements in our research environment,
 leading to increased quality of outputs, growth in the number of PDRAs, attract higher quality PGR
 candidates, and improve impact by bringing non-academic partners into our projects (section 2/4).
 This has been particularly driven by our research strengths, for example:

       Energy transition: Major Leverhulme Fellowship (Boyd: Architecture and the face of coal:
        mining and modern Britain), EU projects (Keeffe: City-zen, Ellis: MISTRAL), UKRI (
        Moveable NEXUS) and projects funded by government bodies (Irish Environmental
        Protection Agency; Ellis: Catalyzing and Characterizing Transition).
       Design: Getty Foundation (Boyd: Keeping it Modern), Irish Arts Council (Boyd: Making
        Ireland Modern), RIBA, (Sengupta: The Language of Disaster), GCRF (McAllister:
        Strategies for inclusiveness in Luanda) and NI Government (Morrow: Street Society) and
        Flood: PublicCoLab)
       Health and the Built Environment: major UKRI grants (Ellis: HULAP, PARC, and Vision
        for Healthy Urban Design), philanthropic sources (Murtagh: Ageing in Place) and GCRF
        (Adlakha, HEAL-India and Ageing in the Global South).
       Urban regeneration and divided cities: Leverhulme (Boland: From Planation to Peace),
        RICS (Boland, The New Waterfront) and Social Investment Fund and Innovate UK
        (Murtagh: Social Economics and the Politics of Peace); Swedish Research Council
        (Murtagh: The Continuation of Conflict-related Violence in Postwar Cities).
       Sustainable Rural Communities: ESRC (Stockdale: Stayin[g] Rural).
       Marine planning and coastal economies: EU (Flannery: MOSES, PERICLES,), Irish
        Environmental Protection Agency. (Ellis: IMMERSE, Flannery: SHIP).

 The funding for these research areas also reflects our objective to improve our focus on major
 societal challenges, which has been further supported by knowledge exchange activities, including
 our KTPs (Section 4), GCRF and UKRI impact acceleration awards. Our submitted Impact Case
 Studies have developed from three of these research areas.

 We have also encouraged our ECRs to gain experience from managing smaller awards, and which
 have then provided important platforms for developing wider research ambitions, so during this
 REF period we have secured small grants from a range of sources including Leverhulme
 (Sengupta: Post--Disaster space) and RICS (Adlakha: All Eyes on Us). We have also used travel
 awards to strengthen our international collaborations (British Academy: Sengupta for link with
 researchers in the University of Sao Paulo, British Council: Brooks award with National University
 of Civil Engineering, Hanoi), and encouraged many of our PGR students to secure travel awards
 from sources such as the MacQuitty Travel Bursaries and the Marine Institute.

 Our ambition for future funding is noted in Section1b, and will be supported through four key
 actions:

       Enhancing how we use our accumulating experience of successful grant submission to
        better mentor ECRs, further peer review of draft proposals, prioritizing ECR in studentship
        allocations and pump-prime their initiatives and collaborative networks;
       Further diversifying and internationalising sources of funding and overcome post-
        Brexit barriers to accessing EU funds. We particularly see opportunities in researching
        long-term responses to COVID-19 and those emerging from future City Deals or the UK
        Industrial Strategy. We have ambitions in the next REF period to develop proposals for
        UKRI Research Centre funding around some of our research strengths;
       Consolidating funding for PGR by applying for EU-ITNs, embed studentships in
        research grants and extend our involvement in UKRI Doctoral Training Centres;
       Further integrating knowledge exchange into our research and lever additional funds for
        this by extending our KTP portfolio and appointment of further Professors of Practice to
        secure partnerships with external bodies to fund research.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3b. Organisational infrastructure and support for research & impact

 Our unit has benefited greatly from the enhanced pre- and post-award support provided at the
 University level (Institutional Statement,4b) and we make extensive use of QUB’s Research and
 Enterprise Directorate, including access to a Central Research Support Fund (for teaching buy-
 outs and for preparing major grant proposals) and hold a number of Impact Acceleration Accounts
 that we can use to deepen knowledge exchange. At School level, we have four dedicated
 administrators that support research and PGR. This is complemented by the support available to
 individual researchers, that includes:

       A funding package of £10,000 and personal laptop for new staff recruits;
       A DfE PhD scholarship for each ECR;
       Funded place on PGCHET;
       Dedicated budgets for the Research Clusters for strategic networking, ECR development
        and training;
       Personalised Research Time allocation (of 44 days pa, 20%) for unfunded research and
        additional 30 days for writing proposals.

 3c. Operational infrastructure, facilities and specialist equipment

 All UoA13 staff and PGRs are located within the David Keir Building, with some architectural
 studios being in adjacent buildings. All staff have single occupancy offices, with common facilities,
 including shared kitchen, coffee areas, meeting spaces and studios. During the REF period we
 have invested c.£40,000 each year in facilities that directly support our research, including touch
 tables, five axis milling machine, 3D printing, materials testing and a new architecture studio. There
 are two dedicated open-plan offices for PGR students in close proximity to staff, facilitating
 opportunities for formal and informal interactions. Staff and students have access to a full suite of
 standard and specialised computer hardware/software, including a laser scanner (linked to
 construction management KTP), GIS Labs and 3D scanning. The University’s McClay Library
 provides access to an extensive collection of books and journals, access to other materials such
 as the RIBA catalogue and the Northern Ireland Neighbourhood Information Service (NINIS). The
 University also has several specialised collections that support our research, including the
 collection of NI Area Plans, a map library and has developed the Planning Architecture Design
 Database Ireland (PADDI), with UC Dublin. We also have access to world class meeting facilities
 for hosting conferences, guest lectures and other research meetings. This includes a Mashme
 suite enabling external parties to share interactive activities and access to the university’s state-
 of-the-art conference facilities at Riddell Hall.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Synopsis of collaboration and wider contribution

 Although our disciplines have had a long tradition of engagement with professional practice,
 policymakers and communities, our shift to a more international, and challenge-focused research
 has called for new ways of collaborating with non-academic partners (such as KTPs) and new
 approaches to enhance impact, as set out in Section 1b. Our submitted ICSs provide strong
 evidence of the success of this, although our engagement activities are much wider than these,
 undertaken by staff at all grades and encouraged by the way we incentivise and evaluate staff
 performance, allocate our resources and the type of research that we are undertaking. As a result,
 our programme of projects increasingly shows indicators of esteem and we now have collaborative
 networks spanning the globe, challenging how we understand the built environment, and changing
 the priorities of our research.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4a. Academic collaborations and contribution to wider academic community

 Our strategy has lent itself to the development of an increasing array of long-standing and incipient
 collaborations with researchers and non-academic partners across the world, which continues to
 nurture our international reputation. This is particularly strong, but not limited to, our reputation as
 the leading centre of built environment research on the Island of Ireland (Boyd has been Chair of
 the All-Ireland Architecture Research Group, served on panels for the Irish Arts Council and
 represented Ireland at the Venice Biennale, and Moore has been the recipient of a number of
 awards for excellence in design, such as the Image Awards, Architect of the Year 2019, Fox-
 Rogers role on the Council of the Irish Planning Institute) and members of UoA13 are in high
 demand as PGR examiners in Irish institutions.

 We also have very strong international networks, from which have emerged very significant
 collaborations, including our PhD programme with RMIT (Section 2d) and European-funded
 projects (MISTRAL, City-zen). The extent of our networks are evident in the type of partners we
 have engaged with, ranging from the UK (KTPs, Leverhulme, UKRI), Ireland (EPA), Europe
 (Research Council of Norway, Danish Council for Strategic Research, Swedish Research Council
 and three COST Actions) and throughout the world. This is reflected in our co-authorship with
 scholars based in the USA, Canada, Australia, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Denmark, South Africa,
 Spain, China, Vietnam, Hong Kong, Brazil, India, Japan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Netherlands
 and many other institutions in the UK and Ireland. UoA13 staff have given keynote/plenary talks
 in a wide range of high esteem institutions (Mariotti at Charles University Prague, Ellis at DTU
 Copenhagen, Adlakha at College of Charleston USA, Sengupta at Indian Institute of Management
 in Kolkata, Waldron at KU Leuven, Stockdale at James Cook University and University of Vermont,
 Keeffe at TU Delft and University of Sevilla, Lappin at DAAD Berlin and Boyd has given critics
 lectures for the Architectural Association of Ireland). Staff have held visiting and adjunct positions
 at University of Oregon (Murtagh), Cornell (Keeffe), University of Groningen (Stockdale) and
 Western Ontario University (Ellis), while hosting many visiting researchers from institutions in
 countries including Italy, Israel, Romania, Portugal, Denmark, Canada, the Netherlands, Brazil,
 Germany, Iceland, while our own staff have been able to exploit established networks to gain
 research experience (Adlakha has held visiting research positions at Active Living Research and
 RMIT Centre for Urban Research).

 We hosted the UK-Ireland Planning Research Conference (2017), the Standing Conference of
 Heads of Schools of Architecture (2016) and the All-Ireland Architecture Research Association
 (2018). Our seminar series has attracted speakers from UK, European, South American and Asian
 institutions. Our active involvement in research networks also provides benefits to our PGR
 community, leading to the creation of UKRI training programmes such as Northern Bridge, NINE
 and MISTRAL, while staff jointly supervise PGR students in other institutions (University of
 Aalborg, University of Groningen, TU Delft, University Institute of Lisbon, Nepal Engineering
 College, University of Exeter, University of Oxford and IZES in Germany), and are regularly asked
 to externally examine PhDs in other institutions (Flannery at the University of Tromsø and
 Södertörn University, Stockdale at Groningen University, Sengupta at Indian Institute of
 Technology Roorkee, Ellis at Schools of Planning and Architecture at Delhi and Bhopal).

 We provide academic leadership to our disciplines through an international profile that includes
 editorship of leading journals (Stockdale on Population, Space and Place, Adlakha on Cities &
 Health, Ellis on Journal of Environmental Policy and Planning, Flannery on ICES Journal of Marine
 Science), leading editorial articles (Ellis’s founding editorial in Cities & Health) and invitations to
 take part in international research assessment panels (Boyd on the Italian National Agency’s
 Evaluation of University and Research Systems, Waldron’s contribution to the Flanders Research
 Foundation, Mariotti as an expert evaluator for MSCA fellowships, Boyd on judging panel for the
 Architectural Association of Ireland, Keeffe has been reviewer for NWO and the Foundation for
 Polish Science and both Ellis and Stockdale have been on several panels for Swedish Research
 Councils). We also support other researchers through our positions on advisory boards for

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international projects (Crowdthermal, Windplan, MATISSE, SESYNC and Iceland: Migration
 Patterns & Trends) and leading roles in research bodies (Lappin is the chair of the Architectural
 Humanities Research Association, and Ellis on the International Advisory Board for Grand
 Renewable Energy 2018).

 Our research environment, as described above, has contributed to the excellence of our research
 outputs, as evidence by the distinguished awards for papers by some of our ECRs; Fox-Rogers
 was awarded the RTPI’s 2016 Award for Excellence in Early Career Research, Silva won the Best
 Article prize for Urban Studies in 2018 (output 205458274) and Waldron the AESOP Best
 Published Paper Award 2020 (output 172312859). We also have some of the top downloaded
 papers for some journals (e.g. Ellis output 119902763 in Journal of Environmental Policy and
 Planning, which has been viewed nearly 11,000 times) and most cited papers (Waldron in
 GeoForum; output 166563423). In terms of our design outputs, O’Grady’s Built East Pavilion was
 the winning design in a Royal Society of Ulster Architects (RSUA) competition and was the first
 time this competition resulted in the construction of the winning design.

 4b. Engagement with non-academic communities

 Our approach to research and impact (Section 1b) has had positive implications for collaboration
 with non-academic partners including involvement with major consortia projects (City-zen, has 25
 partners including Amsterdam Smart City and Siemens; MISTRAL, has 15 partners, including the
 Sustainable Energy Authority Ireland, EDF and Coillte, MOSES where we are working with Belfast
 Harbour, and the Bryden Centre is a partnership of four HEI’s, two local authorities and 15
 industrial partners). Opportunities for partnership are embedded in our research projects by having
 key stakeholders as partners (Plantation to Peace involved Derry City Council) and through the
 creation of Impact Advisory Groups for major projects (HULAP, where Belfast Healthy Cities were
 funded to run the IAG). This also involved attracting dedicated resources for engagement
 activities, including Streetspace, which has been funded by NI Department of Communities and
 Belfast City Council, while we have also been successful with GCRF awards that help build our
 future global partnerships. In addition, we also reserve some of our Research Cluster budget for
 social engagement, using this to fund initiatives such as Streetspace and a Parklets Project with
 local communities. Staff also promote research through science cafes (Slugger sessions on
 Transforming Belfast), TEDx Talks free online webinars to discuss research findings (Stakeholder
 Opinion of Planning in Northern Ireland).

 We provide staff with time for advisory roles and in this way contribute to professional bodies (Fox-
 Rogers is a member of the Irish Planning Institute Council and Chair of its Policy and Research
 Committee, Jones is the current RIBA President and we have undertaken research for the RICS
 and RTPI), engage with high-esteem initiatives (Boyd was on the British Pavilion panel at the
 Venice Biennale), provide high-level policy advice (McKay advises the Irish Planning Regulator,
 Ellis is an independent member of Ireland’s National Economic and Social Council, Murtagh
 advises the NI government on both peace line policy and shared housing, Flannery advises
 DEFRA stakeholder participation on Highly Protected Marine Areas and Mullholland and Keeffe
 are members of the NI Ministerial Advisory Group for Architecture) and support charities and
 NGOs (Martire is Vice Chair of Save CQ, Ellis was a Board member of Belfast Healthy Cities,
 Sengupta advises Occupy Tundikhel, Nepal, Murtagh is a Director of the planning aid organisation
 Community Places).

 QUB has been recognised as a national leader in its development of KTPs, and we have had six
 such partnerships with businesses; Ove Arup (urban resilience), Vu-City (visualising urban
 environments), M Donnelly (virtual and augmented reality), Felix O’Hare Ltd (BIM models), the
 Ashton Trust (procurement systems) and Todd Architects (shared space). Two of these KTPs
 were rated as ‘outstanding’ and resulted in significant outcomes for partners, including new ISO
 certification, contracts in new areas (BIM) and increase in company turnover, and resulted in
 research outputs (Brooks outputs 160568699/19044602)



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our partnerships with non-academic communities enriches our research environment by providing
 a range of benefits in kind, including an agreement with the NI Government’s Land and Property
 Services (LPS), which provides us with access to spatial data through the NI Mapping Agreement
 (worth £250K/year). An example of how this has provided a mutually beneficial arrangement is
 that spatial data produced under the ESRC-funded KESUE project mapped footways across NI,
 which was gifted back to LPS and made publicly available as a new map layer, which was then
 used as the basis of the Department for Education’s model for evaluating eligibility for Home to
 School Transport.

 4c. Wider impact on non-academic world and communities

 Our research strategy (Section 1b) has lent itself to more meaningful forms of engaged and
 participatory impact. Our ICSs illustrate how our wider research environment has stimulated varied
 forms of impact (on policy, deprived communities and the wider public), but the way we contribute
 to society also infuses our civic commitment, practice and teaching activities.

 This has involved high-level engagement with legislative processes; our research on Community
 Asset Transfer and Stakeholder Opinion of Planning have been used in debates in the NI
 Assembly; and Waldron’s work has been cited by the Irish Parliament’s Committee on Housing
 and Homelessness (2016). Our researchers have addressed MPs in Iceland (Stockdale) and
 Scotland (Ellis) and called as independent expert witnesses to Parliamentary Inquiries (NI
 Assembly Inquiry on Wind Energy). The advice provided by McKay to NI’s Minister for
 Infrastructure and Ellis’s role on NESC (which advises the Taoiseach) have also contributed to
 changing narratives around planning regulation and environmental governance. Four of our staff
 (McKay, McAreavey, Lappin and Ellis) have addressed MLAs directly at the NI Assembly’s
 Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series and Keeffe and Jefferies have advised Belfast City
 Council’s Resilience Team.

 Our research has influenced a wide range of policy initiatives, including some core planning
 principles from NI’s Strategic Planning Policy Statement being based on Mullholland’s report on
 Place -Making in a Divided Society, while the KESUE project also influenced the NI Public Health
 Strategy and Belfast City Council’s Active Belfast Strategy. McAllister has worked with NI
 Education Authority to produce guidance on class provision for pupils with autism. Waldron’s work
 on domestic wastewater has led to the Irish EPA to re-examine its public engagement on risk
 management. Sengupta’s work on housing in the Global South has been reflected in
 recommendations made by UN-Habitat, Government of Nepal, the World Bank and included in
 the Delhi Citizen Handbook (2017). Flannery’s work with the Marine Institute has helped to shape
 Ireland’s system of Marine Spatial Planning.

 Our research has also had direct impacts on the development of the built environment, including
 Martire’s influence over future developments in Belfast City Centre via the SaveCQ organisation,
 Boyd’s work with the Getty Foundation on St Brendan’s Community School, Jefferies’s
 Manchester Plinth (output 228634135) and Keeffe’s The Biospheric Project funded by the
 Manchester International Festival. CityZEN also resulted in direct impacts such as Carbon
 Descent plans for 11 European cities (output 231905433).




                                                                                           Page 15
