Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 30 – Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 The foundation of a radical, freethinking, and inclusive university in London was the direct impact
 of philosophical ideas. Philosophy at UCL has, from the first professor appointed in 1830, been
 guided by an ethos of diversity and freedom in research. We continue, in the tradition of figures
 as A.J. Ayer, Bernard Williams, Richard Wollheim, and G.A. Cohen, to seek to test and expand
 the boundaries of mainstream Anglophone philosophy. The current assessment period is
 notable for a degree of staff rejuvenation and growth not seen since the early 1990s: the unit has
 33 researchers (up from 25 submitted in REF2014) and now has a considerably younger and
 more diverse profile (41% of submitted staff are women versus 24% in REF2014). Annual
 research income has close to trebled since the REF2014 period. A further dimension of
 influence and distinction is secured by our large, innovative, and intensive graduate research
 programme that trains and places the next generation of philosophers with exceptional success.
 61 graduates completed in the current period, and 39 have secured academic positions in
 philosophy.

 UCL Philosophy is a unit with two constituent parts: all 26.7 FTE from the Department of
 Philosophy (DP), and 6 FTE from the interdisciplinary Department of Science and Technology
 Studies (STS). Being located in distinct Faculties, DP and STS are autonomous in teaching and
 administration, but there are synergies in common areas of research interest. While DP makes
 up over four-fifths of the unit, what follows applies to the unit as a whole, i.e. all 32.7 FTE
 submitted staff.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy

 In REF2014, we highlighted our commitment to freedom of intellectual inquiry as a means to
 sustained excellence. A principal aim in this REF period has been to maintain our world-class
 research environment through intensification in areas of established strength, while allowing for
 strategic diversification into new ones.

 In REF2014, we set out our plans for enhancing the impact of our research by (a) ensuring that
 all researchers were involved in Knowledge Exchange and public engagement activities; and (b)
 pursuing new and innovative ways to generate impact. A key element of this strategy has been
 improving engagement with practitioners, so that philosophical insights are both transferred to,
 and shaped by, practitioners in areas such as medical science, law, art, and museum curation.

 Our activities over the period demonstrate (1) Intensification and Development of core research
 strengths; (2) Diversification and increased Interdisciplinarity in novel areas; and (3) extensive
 Engagement with Practitioners.

 (1) Intensification and Development

 Puzzles about Agency and Responsibility. UCL Philosophy has long had an international
 reputation in philosophy of mind and action. The current period has seen a particular
 intensification of research activity and infrastructure in the philosophy of action. Heuer, Lavin,
 (moving from Leeds and Harvard, respectively), and O’Brien have published on intentions,
 responsibility, reasons, and the metaphysics of action. Hyman’s transfer from Oxford, the
 publication of his agenda-setting Action, Knowledge and the Will and his ERC Advanced Grant
 ‘The Roots of Responsibility’, have attracted a stream of international visitors, workshops,
 special lectures, regular research seminars, Field’s postdoctoral work, and Greenberg’s


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship. We are now pre-eminent in this internationally thriving
 area.

 Self in Nature and Social Life. This period has seen intensification and increasing
 interconnectedness of work on problems of the self and other. Publications by Hyman and
 Madden address the place of self-conscious agents in the natural world. Research on self-
 consciousness and the first person has been enriched by postdoctoral researchers: Daniel
 Morgan, Marie Guillot and David Zapero. A distinctive concentration on the social and affective
 aspects of self-consciousness is evidenced by: O’Brien’s British Academy Senior Research
 Fellowship project, ‘The Pains and Pleasures of Interpersonal Self-Consciousness’; Stern’s
 publication on affects and drives in Nietzsche’s account of the self; Srinivasan’s publication in
 the period on anger; Munoz-Dardé’s work on puzzles of regret; Richmond’s expertise on
 Sartrean themes of shame and regret; complemented by Leigh on the interpersonal nature of
 Platonic self-knowledge, and Lavin on the significance of second-personal thought in ethics.

 The Ancient World and its Modern Problems. A generous bequest (£2.4m) enabled the
 foundation of the Keeling Centre for Ancient Philosophy (KC) in 2016. The Centre sustainably
 funds postgraduate scholarships and a Research Fellowship, hosts events, and organises
 visiting scholars. The Keeling Scholar in Residence (during the period: M.M. McCabe, David
 Sedley and Sarah Broadie) runs an annual graduate seminar and supervises graduate students.
 Plato has been an area of research concentration: KC’s Director, Leigh, works on Plato’s
 Alcibiades, Republic, and Sophist; Anderson’s three-year Keeling Research Fellowship led to
 publications on Plato’s ethics, and Greene on Plato’s later writings on legitimacy and democracy.
 Greene and Aimar (in her work on Aristotelian modality) highlight the way the unit brings
 together ancient and contemporary philosophy. This is evidenced more generally: Kalderon’s
 monograph on ancient theories of colour perception is a contribution equally to contemporary
 debate; the same holds of his monograph Sympathy in Perception, and papers on Augustine
 and Priscian; witness too, Gregory’s two monographs, on Anaximander and Early Greek
 Philosophies of Nature; and Leigh’s recent OUP collection, Self-Knowledge in Ancient Thought.

 The State, Legitimacy and Social Hierarchy. UCL Philosophy has long been a centre of research
 into equality. van Wietmarschen, Munoz-Dardé, and Wilson have continued to publish research
 on Rawlsian distributive justice, the relation between liberalism and peer disagreement, and
 egalitarianism. Our political theory group has doubled in size with the appointment of Greene
 (2014), Horton (2017) and Simpson (2018), with expertise in legitimacy, human rights and rights
 of free speech, and distributive justice and theories of exploitation. The period has also seen
 intensified research connections with the large groups of political theorists in the Department of
 Political Science and of scholars in jurisprudence in the Faculty of Laws.

 Ethics in Principle and Policy. Wolff (now at Oxford) exemplified a long UCL tradition of
 addressing ethical questions in practical and policy contexts. Horton and Munoz-Dardé defend
 opposing positions about aggregation in moral theory. But these questions are not pursued
 purely in the abstract: Munoz-Dardé is concerned with regulation of intimacy, and the policy
 consequences of funding for art and research; Simpson is concerned with regulation of hate
 speech, of search engines and with arguments for and against ‘no platforming’. Richmond
 pursues a rich set of questions about capability both physical and mental. Edwards has explored
 moral and epistemic challenges raised by mental health interventions, as well as by public health
 policies, including ‘lockdown’ and vaccination. Wilson has published widely on the philosophy of
 public health, collaborating with Benedict Rumbold (Wellcome Senior Research Fellow, now
 Nottingham) and Albert Weale (School of Public Policy) on the Human Right to Health and
 Priority Setting in Health Care. This research nexus included a second Wellcome Trust
 Research Fellow: Jillian Craigie (now at KCL). And the period saw the foundation, by Wilson and
 Sonu Shamdasani (School of European Languages Culture and Society) of the Health
 Humanities Centre in 2015.

 Romanticism and Beyond. Gardner and Stern have continued to work on Nietzsche, resulting in
 Stern’s book Nietzsche’s Ethics, The New Cambridge Companion to Nietzsche and numerous

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 other papers including Gardner’s study of Kantian themes in Nietzsche’s notes and letters.
 Andrew Cooper’s Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellowship, ‘A Road Not Taken: Naturalism,
 Organized Systems’, and Gardner’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship project, ‘Freedom,
 Nature, and the Pursuit of the Whole’, both investigate the 19th Century legacy of Kant’s Third
 Critique. The research threads run on through Schopenhauer and others into the 20th century:
 Zalabardo published a major OUP monograph on Representation and Reality in Wittgenstein’s
 Tractatus, and we now add distinguished expertise on later Wittgenstein (Hyman). A highlight
 achievement is Richmond’s English translation of Sartre’s Being and Nothingness, the first in
 over 60 years, with an agenda-setting translator’s introduction and notes.

 (2) Diversification and Interdisciplinarity

 Formal Approaches to Truth, Meaning and Knowledge. Although logic has a rich history at UCL
 (Augustus De Morgan was a founding professor), the level of our diversification into formal areas
 during the assessment period is unprecedented for UCL Philosophy. The appointments of
 Picollo (from LMU Munich) and Button (from Cambridge) have reinvigorated this tradition. Their
 discipline-leading work on truth and model theory – including Button’s pioneering Philosophy
 and Model Theory – has applications to philosophy of mathematics, formal metaphysics, and
 complements our considerable and growing expertise in semantics. In the period, we also
 appointed Aimar; Rothschild won two AHRC grants in philosophy of language and established,
 with Richard Breheny (UCL Psychology and Language Sciences), the Language and Meaning
 Centre (LMC). Zalabardo has published on modal logic and logical consequence; we have
 hosted a Jacobsen Fellowship (Jonathan Payne) resulting in publications in modal and second-
 order logic; and Maria Frappoli’s Marie Curie Fellowship resulted in work on truth and meaning.
 Our recent formal turn has another new dimension: Das and Fenton-Glynn are leading early-
 career formal epistemologists.

 New Histories of the Mind. Classical Indian Philosophy is a new research strength. Das is
 engaged in international collaborative editing, and translation, and authoring analytical-historical
 work on themes of knowledge, self-knowledge in Indian philosophy. This represents a
 commitment to diversify our traditional strengths into underexplored traditions and historical
 periods. Button and Madden are both working on issues around the self and solipsism in the
 early analytic and pragmatist periods, and Martin (now at Oxford) on Moore’s and Russell’s
 analyses of perception and memory.

 (3) Engagement with Practitioners

 Our work in the Philosophy of Science has been distinctively sensitive to the practice of
 scientists: Fenton-Glynn’s by statistical modelling and causal inference in the special sciences;
 Tobin’s by classificatory practices in chemistry and biochemistry. Illari’s by the historical study of
 the search for causes of disease. In turn their work has influenced methodologies for evidence
 assessment (ICS2). Nguyen's postdoctoral work has drawn on the use of models in science,
 and complemented Ambrosio’s interdisciplinary work on representational formats in science and
 art.

 Significant synergies between STS and DP come to the fore through engagement with the
 practice of health and data policy, and are detailed in our impact case studies. They include
 publications on consent (Edwards), and collaborative work on clinical trials during disease
 outbreaks (Clarke, Illari, and Edwards). Edwards’s work on the regulation of new medicines
 directly impacted health practitioners in Africa (ICS1). Illari, who sits on the Turing Institute Data
 Ethics Group, has influenced government data ethics regulatory frameworks (ICS2). Tobin
 acted as a consultant for South East NHS Trust and Chestnut Tree House to review the health
 policy for nurse practitioners in paediatric palliative care. Wilson’s work on privacy and
 confidentiality led to far-reaching changes in the way NHS balances confidentiality and utility in
 health data. (ICS3).



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A new impetus to the engagement between UCL Philosophy and Laws has been secured with
 the appointments of Greene, Simpson, Greenberg, and through Hyman’s ‘Roots of
 Responsibility’ project: legal practitioners have been brought into dialogue with philosophers.
 David Campbell (a barrister as well as scholar of jurisprudence) has joined the project as
 Associate Research Fellow, opening pathways to influence judicial policies and practices,
 besides sharpening philosophical understanding.

 The period has seen an intensification of research on the arts and engagement with artists.
 Gardner, Hyman, O’Brien, and Stern published on Nietzsche and the arts, architecture, our
 epistemic relation to novels, the philosophy of theatre and the aesthetics of passion. Stern
 edited The Philosophy of Theatre, Drama and Acting. Ambrosio and Nguyen published on
 artistic, scientific and photographic representation. And this period saw innovative engagement
 with practitioners and public. Stern collaborated with choreographer Lea Tirabasso; Gregory
 Thompson (UCL’s Creative Entrepreneur in Residence) produced a performance piece at the
 Bloomsbury Theatre (2019) based on Stern’s Philosophy and Theatre. Kalderon wrote artists’
 gallery statements. Ambrosio’s research on scientific representations, and the visual and
 material culture of science informed a series of public events (exhibitions, comedy, and
 improvised opera).

 (4) Future Aims and Strategies

 Our REF2014 anticipated three planned retirements and foresaw the need to rejuvenate the
 Department. We did not foresee the loss of three members, Martin, Srinivasan, and Wolff, all
 now appointed to statutory chairs at Oxford (respectively the Wilde, the Chichele and the Alfred
 Landecker). This presented challenges but has also ultimately proved the resilience of our
 strategy and enabled targeted growth. Prioritizing hiring at the start of career has made us a
 more contemporary, vibrant unit, with a much younger and more diverse staff body and research
 culture. We look forward to the next generation of junior researchers going on to equally senior
 positions.

 A guiding principle of our strategy will remain enabling our researchers to have the time, respect,
 intellectual freedom, and institutional support, to undertake and complete work that meets
 international standards of excellence and impact. The strategy is designed for the long term, so
 that scholars flourish over a full career. It aims at putting us in a position to thrive during a period
 of increased volatility for university research funding. Very recent grant successes such as
 Wilson and Melanie Smallman (STS) with the UKRI funded UK Pandemic Ethics Accelerator,
 and Hyman’s partnership with Zhejiang University confirm the strength of this strategy.

 The ratio of graduate research students to staff is consistently high: more than two graduate
 research students to each member. Research is central to teaching for all staff, who spend a
 high percentage of their time running research seminars, supervising research, and often on
 projects that directly engage with their published work. In the next period, we aim to retain these
 benefits while containing the demand. (DP used investment in new FTE in the period to reduce
 the number of modules each staff member teaches each year).

 Our main priorities for 2021 and beyond are: (i) to nurture the careers of the many junior staff
 appointed. In the next five years we will prioritize their careers, by offering colleagues research-
 led teaching, encouraging intra- and inter-disciplinary interactions, active mentoring, and
 supporting grant applications and international engagement; (ii) to enhance and develop
 research leadership activity of mid-career researchers; (iii) to foster existing, and emerging,
 research synergies within the UoA, and support the development of funding bids for research
 projects that reflect them; (iv) to enhance our interdisciplinary connections with Laws,
 Psychology and Language Sciences, and Computer Science; (v) to increase if possible current
 levels of PGR activity in a challenging funding environment; (vi) to increase the accessibility,
 reach, and impact of our research; (vii) to enrich and develop Philosophy as a discipline
 (through research, ECR and postgraduate training, and research leadership) by fostering


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), including philosophical work that reflects on the structural,
 political, and psychological bases of social bias, hierarchy, disadvantage and exclusion.

 1.3 Research Integrity and Open Access

 Our research is guided by UCL’s Principles of Research Integrity. We have also been involved in
 setting standards for, and training others in research integrity. Munoz-Dardé and Edwards have
 been members of the UCL Research Ethics Committee; Edwards was editor of Research Ethics
 and is chair of the MRC Archive Data Access Committee. Illari is a member of the Alan Turing
 Institute’s Data Ethics Group; Wilson is Vice Chair of the Metropolitan Police Service's Research
 Ethics Committee. We work on methods of respectful and productive discussion, critique and
 questioning in training Graduate Students, both in PGTA training and in ‘Rhetoric and
 Presentation Skills’ workshops.

 We make our research available to audiences worldwide through a commitment to open access
 which goes above and beyond the REF2021 Open Access policy requirements. In addition to
 using UCL’s own repository, most of us have in the period contributed to an OA culture by
 choosing to publish OA journal articles and to post our work on prominent searchable external
 repositories such as philpapers.org and academia.edu. Horton’s Ethics paper on aggregation
 was made open access as part of an agreement with PEA Soup to facilitate a blog discussion.
 Button has published an open-source logic textbook, Open Set Theory, and is on the board for
 the Open Logic Project, and Edwards (Editor of Research Ethics) and Gardner (as Section
 Editor of Ergo) are key contributors to OA Journals.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 UCL Philosophy consists of 27.7 FTE permanent members of staff and 4 fixed-term research
 staff. We have benefited from generous staffing investment from UCL in the assessment period
 and the unit has grown by 28%. Our strategy has been one of rejuvenation, in fulfilment of a
 REF2014 objective, ‘when vacancies arise normally to appoint energetic early career staff, with
 their own exciting research plans, rather than bringing in senior philosophers with established
 research careers.’ Accordingly, vacancies which opened up early in the assessment period due
 to anticipated retirements (Giaquinto, Peacocke, and Snowdon) were quickly filled by dynamic
 younger philosophers (Aimar, Srinivasan, Lavin).

 Further staffing opportunities arose. Thanks to the continued confidence of UCL in the unit’s
 research quality and the attractiveness of its research-led teaching programmes, further
 expansion at the junior level was permitted.

 The ensuing new appointments (Greene, Heuer, Horton, Simpson, followed by Hyman’s
 appointment to the Grote Chair, then Das, Picollo, and, most recently, Button) have been
 guided by the research objectives of strengthening quality in the distinctive research themes of
 the unit, while also taking seriously widespread concerns about diversity in the discipline. We
 also took the opportunity to develop new research strengths: we were able to make outstanding
 appointments in Logic (Picollo, Button), and Formal Epistemology and Classical Indian
 Philosophy (Das).

 2.2 Staff development

 Upon appointment all new members of staff, probationers, and those on short-term contracts are
 assigned a mentor. Each member of staff meets with the mentor formally once a term, and
 informally as often as needed. In addition, all Early Career Researchers (ECRs) take part in the
 Academic Development Programmes arranged by the Arena Centre for the Research-based
 Education. Probationary staff are spared significant administrative tasks until the end of their
 probation (usually three years), and are given a reduced teaching load. In this REF period, DP

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 improved support for ECRs by introducing teaching relief for applications for fellowships. STS
 has a mentoring programme assisting early-year researchers with grant applications.

 UCL provides a diverse and comprehensive training programme for staff, ranging from courses
 on project management to sessions on innovative uses of IT resources. All staff are appraised
 every year by a senior member of staff, except the Head of Department who is appraised
 annually by the Dean of the Faculty. All those conducting appraisals have received UCL’s
 appraisal training.

 The UoA sees maintenance of regular sabbatical leave as central to staff development. All
 permanent members of staff may apply for at least the UCL-wide sabbatical leave of one term
 after nine terms of teaching or one year after seven. We encourage staff to extend their leave by
 applying for external research support. In the period under review the number of research leaves
 has been higher than that minimum entitlement. Sabbaticals have not been delayed due to the
 Covid-19 pandemic. All members receive a yearly personal research allowance from the Faculty.
 We take career progression seriously and encourage non-professorial member of academic staff
 to apply for promotion as soon as they are ready. We recognize and reward diverse profiles of
 achievement, including impact generation. A flexible teaching infrastructure has allowed
 members of the UoA to take on work-intensive editorial and leadership roles, and to develop
 their own research within the classroom, and supervision.

 Staff are supported in the undertaking of visiting fellowships and professorships in other
 departments. Within the assessment period the DP has enabled 10 members of the UoA to take
 up visiting fellowships at Berkeley, Freiburg, Geneva, Harvard, Leipzig, Madrid, Munich, Oxford,
 Princeton, Shenzhen, Tel-Aviv, and UCLA.

 We have mechanisms in place to stimulate and facilitate exchanges with institutions beyond the
 university, and to encourage research staff to achieve impact. Both faculties (A&H and MAPS)
 have a Vice-Dean (Enterprise), and Wilson as Vice Dean (Interdisciplinarity) represented A&H
 on UCL’s Public Policy Board. Our most high impact researchers, Edwards, Illari and Wilson,
 were encouraged to apply to Professorships in the period, all successfully. Teaching buyouts
 enable consultancy work - for example, Wilson with NHS Digital and Edwards with North Central
 London Clinical Commission Group.

 Evidence for the success of these career support mechanisms in the assessment period is
 threefold: (i) promotion rate: in the period, eight applications for promotion to full Professor were
 approved, and 11 for promotion to Associate Professor; (ii) success in research income capture,
 including among junior staff (see §3.1 for details); and (iii) success of fixed-term researchers in
 subsequently securing prestigious positions in the discipline, for example: Jillian Craigie
 (Wellcome Research Fellow) now Lecturer at KCL; Daniel Morgan (British Academy Fellow) now
 Associate Lecturer at York; Benedict Rumbold (Wellcome Research Fellow) now Assistant
 Professor at Nottingham; Marie Guillot (Marie Curie Fellow) now Lecturer at Essex; Andrew
 Cooper (Leverhulme Early Career Fellow) now Assistant Professor at Warwick.

 Development and retention of our permanent staff is a priority for the next period, in addition to
 the aforementioned career support, and continued provision of effective research infrastructure
 (see §3.2).

 2.3 PGR Students

 It is a central part of our mission to train the next generation of philosophers, not only for the
 future health of the discipline but for the dynamic research culture it creates in the present.

 Of note is that the assessment period has seen continued success in publication by PGR
 students in highly ranked journals (Venkatesh in Philosophy & Public Affairs, Salje, Geddes,
 Mitchell, Bacharach in Mind, Hampton in Phronesis, Laing in Philosophers’ Imprint, Fischer in
 Philosophy, Mellor in The Monist, Shaw in Philosophical Quarterly.)

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 DP has two graduate research programmes. The first is the demanding two-year MPhilStud
 degree, with 10 advanced elements of coursework, and a 30,000-word thesis written under close
 supervision, examined by viva. In addition, dedicated seminars for the first and second years
 create a sense of solidarity, which persists into the PhD years. A research degree in its own
 right, the MPhilStud provides a foundation for doctoral study and for a diverse teaching portfolio.
 Although some competitor programmes have recently moved in our direction, the MPhilStud
 remains unique in the UK for the sheer intensity and breadth of education it imparts. We enrol
 around 12 MPhilStud students a year, who have recently been drawn from Australia, South
 Africa, India, Mexico and the USA, in addition to the UK and EU.

 The MPhilStud is the principal route to the PhD in DP, but DP and STS also admit to a more
 standard MPhil/PhD programme. All doctoral students are assigned to a primary and a
 secondary supervisor, with supervisions every two weeks the norm. 10-14 new PhD students
 are admitted to the unit each year. Altogether we receive more than 150 applications for
 research degrees each year, with the MPhilStud being exceptionally competitive.

 In any given week in the academic year, 10-15 graduate research seminars will be in progress,
 attended not only by MPhilStud students but also Masters, PhD students and interested
 colleagues. Research students also organise their own work in progress and reading groups, in
 collaborations within and between Philosophy, STS, Laws, Political Sciences, Psychology and
 Language Sciences and similar departments at other London universities, creating a uniquely
 large and diverse clustering of graduate students, embedded in the rich London Philosophy
 research culture (see below). A pleasing effect of the rejuvenation of our staff profile is a new
 level of closeness between staff and graduate students: joint initiatives in the period include the
 foundation of the Departmental Colloquium speaker series at DP at which speakers alternate
 between national and international visitors, and researchers, typically ECRs. STS runs
 masterclasses with all visitors in their high-profile philosophy of science visiting programme.

 All doctoral students have numerous opportunities to work as Post Graduate Teaching
 Assistants (PGTAs). This experience develops their teaching skills and deepens their
 philosophical expertise, and provides financial support. They receive training beforehand, and
 supervision throughout this teaching. We are unusual in granting PGTAs the freedom to design
 their own research-led syllabi for tutorial-style first- and third-year module.

 Postgraduate students in Philosophy have been exceptionally successful in winning UCL cross-
 disciplinary scholarships that fund a year in another discipline. In the current period this has
 taken our students into Cognitive Neuroscience, Experimental Psychology, Department of
 Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology (Psychoanalysis Unit), and the Department of Cell
 and Developmental Biology.

 We also have mutually beneficial research student exchange arrangements with departments at
 UCL strategic partners Toronto and Yale (facilitated by Leigh and Greene), Berkeley (facilitated
 by Munoz-Dardé who holds an ongoing senior appointment there) and Leipzig (facilitated by
 Lavin, O’Brien, Stern). Students have also recently visited Princeton and Montreal.
 We take special care to create a hospitable and sociable intellectual context in which students
 can thrive. At the start of each academic year, DP holds a two-day graduate conference to
 welcome the new students. One-day graduate conferences, with KCL, Birkbeck and LSE, take
 place termly at the Institute of Philosophy. At the end of each year each student meets with the
 Graduate Committee to discuss their progress and future publishing and career plans.
 Supervisors write termly reports on their graduate students, which are reviewed by the Graduate
 Tutor and Graduate Committee.

 We have sustained graduate student recruitment through the parallel paths of state scholarship
 schemes and our own endowment. We are members of the AHRC-funded LAHP Doctoral
 Training Partnership together with KCL, LSE, and SAS. This typically brings around 5 AHRC
 studentships annually. We supplement this level of scholarship through the c. £150,000 per year

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 endowment income which provides scholarships at Master’s and doctoral level, as well as small
 awards to aid research students through the difficult path to doctorate work. We are committed
 to strengthening the excellent graduate research environment at UCL through seeking further
 external funding from alumni and other charitable sources. The Keeling bequest of
 approximately £2.7m to support research students in Ancient Philosophy shows the success of
 this strategy and has considerably increased the awards we can make.

 The quality of the PGR research environment is evidenced by our outstanding record in placing
 students in diverse competitive postdoctoral positions, national and international, including
 Leverhulme, ERC, Humboldt and Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowships. In the period, 61 students
 in the UoA completed their PhDs. 39 have already taken up further positions in philosophy.
 Placements included postdoctoral or research fellowship appointments in Antwerp, Bergen,
 Berlin, Bristol, Durham, Cambridge, Chicago, Chile, Dublin, Fribourg, Geneva, Indiana, KCL,
 Kent, Leipzig, McGill, Munich, Oxford, Paris, Southampton, Toronto, Vienna, Yale. 8 students
 secured temporary teaching positions, at Cambridge, Kent, Oxford, UCL and Warwick. 12 have
 taken up permanent or tenure-track positions at the American College of Greece; Leeds; Oslo;
 NCCU Taiwan; Uppsala; Utrecht; Université Laval, Canada; UNAM, Mexico; York, Canada;
 National Cheng Chi University, China; National, and Nanyang University, Singapore; and
 University of York, UK. Two students co-supervised with other departments secured
 postdoctoral positions at Oxford and UCL, another is now the Director for the Centre for
 Antimicrobial Resistance at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health. The unit has also supported
 progression of PhDs into non-academic positions: philosophy teaching at St Paul’s School
 London; project editor at Faber and Faber; Strategy Lead, Department for Business, Energy and
 Industrial Strategy (EU Exit Strategy); Service Development Manager at St Mungo’s
 homelessness charity; Democratic Alliance Abroad Leader in South Africa.

 2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 With Richmond initiating a widening participation group in 2011, we have sought to promote
 equality, diversity and inclusion. We are committed to UCL’s overarching EDI strategies, on
 recruitment, selection, training, appraisal, development and promotion of staff. The unit’s policies
 and practices express our commitment to creating a hospitable working environment for all staff
 regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, age, religion and belief.
 We have made excellent progress over this REF period—evidenced by significantly increased
 diversity of the UoA, success in promotions across all groups, success in placement of women
 and BME PGRs, by the ways in which we have supported EDI initiatives within the unit, and
 used leadership roles in learned societies to push for inclusion more widely. DP and STS each
 have a departmental Inclusion Lead, who works with Faculty Vice Deans (EDI) to integrate EDI
 into departmental strategy and monitor progress.

 STS adopted a departmental race pledge in 2019/20 as part of their race equality strategy and
 DP has subscribed to the BPA/SWIP Good Practice Scheme and are preparing a bid for an
 Athena Swan award. 42% of our permanent staff are now women, an unusual situation in the
 discipline. (According to the most recent BPA/SWIP report, women make up only 24% of
 permanent staff in UK philosophy). Women are also in prominent leadership roles: Tobin is co-
 Head of STS. 50% (five of ten) of our permanent appointments in the period were women, 20%
 were BME, and 1 self-identifies as disabled. Of the 8 members promoted to Professor, 4 were
 women, and 1 BME. 1 of 2 named Chairs appointed in the period is a woman. Wilson became
 the UK’s first Black professor of Philosophy, and is an important role model for incoming staff
 and students. Of the 11 members of the unit promoted to Associate Professor, 4 were women. 3
 members of the unit identify as LGBTQ+. 2 members of the unit self-identify as disabled. Of the
 12 PGRs placed in permanent/tenure track posts, 5 are women and 3 are BME. Of the 39 PGRs
 taking up positions in philosophy, 15 were women and 3 BME. While much remains to be done,
 DP is leading the way in addressing EDI challenges within the discipline. We have improved the
 demographic balance by explicitly encouraging applications from underrepresented groups in job
 advertisements, and being prepared to develop new research strengths given sufficiently
 outstanding candidates.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The unit works on various EDI concerns: Leigh has served on UCL’s EDI LGBTQ+Equality
 Steering Group for 8 years, and won a Provost’s Excellence award. The project UCL Faces
 Race: Past, Present, & Future, which examined the legacy of Eugenics at UCL, was co-led with
 UCL Geography. Wilson has served as a mentor for B-MEntor, a cross-institutional mentoring
 scheme for BME academics, and Leigh as a mentor as part of the SWIP-BPA scheme for junior
 female academics.

 UCL Philosophy has an exceptionally active Minorities and Philosophy (MAP) chapter, founded
 during the period, with Simpson as faculty liaison. MAP members have worked with DP to set up
 the annual MAP Harriet and Helen Memorial lecture. MAP have also led a series of events to
 draw individuals from under-represented groups into graduate level philosophy, and reading
 groups on philosophy of race. STS has an annual MSc scholarship for students from
 underrepresented backgrounds sponsored by DeepMind.

 Members of the unit with leadership positions in learned societies in the discipline have all
 worked towards the implementation of the BPA/SWIP guidelines for inclusion and good practice
 at conferences, including Madden (Aristotelian Society), O’Brien (Royal Institute of Philosophy),
 Ambrosio, and Illari (British Society for the Philosophy of Science). O’Brien chaired the RIP
 Review Committee aiming partly at institutional change in relation to equality, diversity and
 inclusion. Ambrosio was chair and organiser of the first Women in Pragmatism meeting. Tobin
 is an active mentor for Society for Women in Philosophy, and Illari has served on the Women’s
 Caucus of the European Philosophy of Science Association, heading up initiatives such as
 gathering cross-country information about working conditions for parents, and is currently
 heading up a study of career trajectories in philosophy of science.

 In preparing our REF submission, the UoA has ensured that our processes reflect our EDI
 commitments. UCL’s Code of Practice prohibits information on Output selection from use for
 appraisal, salary increments and promotion, a point underscored in staff communications.
 Colleagues were invited to identify preferred outputs for submission, which were reviewed both
 externally and internally by a diverse group. UCL’s equalities analysis informed us that more
 outputs have been selected by male staff in this exercise. We have launched a review of the
 ways in which significant administrative burdens have acted as a drag on female staff research
 productivity. In contrast, two of three ICSs are female-led. Though fewer in number, BAME staff
 are more likely to have an output attributed to them in our submission. Evidence for staff with
 other protected characteristics was insufficient for meaningful analysis.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding

 During the current assessment period, the unit has close to trebled its research income: from
 £898,000 in the previous period to £2,460,814 in this period. UCL Philosophy welcomes large
 scale projects which connect individuals across institutions and disciplines, and we also actively
 encourage single scholars to seek support. We keenly recognize the role that a lively and
 outward-looking research culture plays in fostering the flourishing not just of UCL Philosophy,
 but also the broader research base of the discipline, and we have been pleased to host
 fellowships for both ECRs, and for established scholars.

 We have won £3,491,296 in awards from external sources in the period. A striking feature of this
 success is its spread across career stages and areas of research in the unit. Another feature is
 the wide variety in the funders, projects, and purpose of the awards. We have won 9 research
 project grant awards (ERC, AHRC, NIHR, EPSRC), 10 awards enabling visitors to undertake
 research with the UoA; 6 individual grants enabling members to take research leave; and we
 have several external grants enabling international visits. The awards vary from ‘lone scholar
 awards’ in the history of philosophy, epistemology, philosophy of mind, philosophy language and

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 political philosophy, to research collaborations in health humanities, responsibility and the law,
 and poverty, with direct research impact on hospitals, law, and policy.

 The years since 2014 have seen a strategy of encouraging and incentivising research grant
 applications that, apart from funding research projects, paid for relief from teaching and
 administrative duties, and enabled visiting postdoctoral researchers. Increased support has been
 made available for research grant applications within the UoA, and at Faculty and University-
 levels. We have made full use of research seminars to explore cooperative research projects.
 We have also profited from the support from dedicated staff with expertise in grant capture, grant
 management, and Impact. This strategy has been extremely successful, with a significant
 income increase, and success across all levels of seniority, and all types of awards. These
 awards include:

 i)      Major grants

 Hyman is PI on a major European Research Council (ERC) project ‘The Roots of Responsibility:
 Metaphysics, Humanity and Society’ (£2.1M euros) under the European Union’s Horizon 2020
 research and innovation programme. The project has supported 5 ECRs, and a growing
 international network of collaborators.

 ii)     Individual awards:

 Aimar secured a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship on behalf of Prof Angelika Kratzer from MIT
 (£100,768). Gardner won a Leverhulme Research Fellowship for his own project ‘Freedom,
 Nature, and the Pursuit of the Whole: The Legacy of Kant's Third Critique’ (£48,878). Greene’s
 Visiting Fellowship at Princeton brought (£54,689.92). O’Brien won a British Academy Fellowship
 ‘The Pleasures and Pains of Interpersonal Self-Consciousness (£52,829.13). Rothschild won an
 AHRC Fellowship to support his work on ‘Dynamics of Conversation’ (£113,440.56) The unit
 secured from the Leverhulme a Research Fellowship, ‘All the Depths of Believing’ (£48,412) for
 Srinivasan, and another Research Fellowship for van Wietmarschen’s work on ‘A Theory of
 Social Hierarchy’ (£37,348.76). Wolff won support from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation for a
 review of philosophical perspectives on poverty (£9,955). Zalabardo secured a British Academy
 grant ‘Mind, Language and Action: Investigating the Connections Between the Physical and The
 Human Realities’ (£9,790).

 iii)   Collaborative grants

 Rothschild secured from the AHRC a research project grant ‘Context-Sensitivity in Natural
 Language’ (£77,069) (with Alex Silk). Wilson secured an EPSRC IRC Early-Warning Sensing
 Systems for Infectious Diseases exploratory projects grant: ‘Building and Maintaining Public
 Trust in Early Warning Sensing Systems for Influenza’ (£81,576), and a NIHR UCLH Biomedical
 Research Centre award for ‘Why are we Waiting? Time, Patient Flows, and Congestion’
 (£35,000). Illari won support for a three-year AHRC Research Project ‘Evaluating Evidence in
 Medicine’ (£281,771.2).

 iv)    Hosting of postdoctoral fellows

 Gardner hosted Andrew Cooper’s Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellowship (£84,100). Nguyen is
 supported by a Jacobsen Fellowship (£34,831 per annum - with London Allowance). Greenberg
 enjoys a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (£91,440.00), and Field has held an ERC
 Research Fellowship (£98,679.14), hosted by Hyman. O’Brien hosted Marie Guillot’s Marie Curie
 Postdoctoral Fellowship (£166,204.8) Paul Snowdon hosted Jonathan Payne’s Jacobsen
 Fellowship (£81,599) and Daniel Morgan’s British Academy Postdoctoral fellowship (£257,146).
 Wilson hosted Benedict Rumbold’s Wellcome Trust Fellowship (£149,624), supplemented by
 Rumbold’s further Wellcome Trust grant to support a conference on ‘Human Right to Health,
 Universal Health Coverage and Priority Setting’ (£4760). Wolff hosted Jillian Craigie’s Wellcome


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust Fellowship (£169,955). Zalabardo played host to Maria Frappoli’s Marie Curie Fellowship
 (£127,045.62)

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Our research is supported by infrastructure and facilities at three levels: (i) within the UoA, (ii)
 within the institution, and (iii) within the wider London research environment.

 Within UoA. A distinctive aspect of the unit level research infrastructure is that it is built into the
 long-term structure of our large PGR programmes that every member of staff, every year, gives
 seminars based on their current research. These are attended not only by PGR students, but
 also by UCL colleagues, and visitors from other London institutions, and elsewhere.

 The UoA is instrumental in the running and coordination of four Interdisciplinary Research
 Centres that are catalysts for, and enable the support and organisation, of research activity. The
 four centres are the Keeling Centre for Ancient Philosophy; the Health Humanities Centre;
 Institute of Law, Politics and Philosophy; and Centre for Language and Meaning. Two of these –
 the Centre for Language and Meaning, and the Health Humanities Centre – are housed in the
 IAS. A number of intra-UCL, interdisciplinary, collaborative networks support research at the
 graduate and postgraduate level. We co-supervise PGRs across departments and faculties (with
 Experimental Psychology, Cognitive Neuroscience, Politics, Linguistics, Institute of Education,
 Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose (IIPP) Anthropology, Computer Science, Slade
 School of Fine arts, Greek and Latin. We jointly teach research seminars Richmond on
 Profound Impairment with Vorhaus with (Institute of Education); Rothschild, Philosophy of
 Language, with Linguistics.

 UCL Philosophy seeks to use the c. £150,000 per year endowment income (principally the
 Keeling bequest and the Jacobsen Fund, but also Ayer, Dawes Hicks, Melhuish and JS Mill
 Scholarships) as a form of leverage against other research income to increase its impact, in
 particular to support our graduate research.

 UCL. Our rapid increase in grant capture in this period has been aided by Faculty and
 University-level investments and infrastructure, through a dedicated Research Facilitation Office.
 The period has also seen the appointment at faculty level of Research Development Managers,
 and an enhanced role for the Vice Deans (Research), who give strategic and tactical advice on
 applications, as well as a permanent Impact Development Manager and a fixed-term ICS
 support officer. Services provided include funding opportunity alerts, guidance for grant and
 fellowship applicants, individual support sessions on funding calls and feedback on proposals,
 briefings on grant writing, funding opportunities and policy changes, and mock interviews for
 fellowships and large applications. Additional staff in UCL Public Policy, Grand Challenges and
 UCL Culture provide advice and training for public engagement, impact, and public policy work.

 UCL offers a number of competitive internal grants, which aim to pump-prime further
 international, cross-institutional, and interdisciplinary collaborations, and public engagement.
 Members of the UoA have been awarded £93,389 in internal UCL funding within the assessment
 period. UCL’s Global Engagement Office has provided us with decisive financial support: four
 awards have facilitated our development of international research networks with Yale, Toronto,
 Leipzig, and Jean Nicod Paris. UCL Grand Challenges supported us in collaborative
 interdisciplinary projects that explored: museum collections via improvised opera; UCL’s legacy
 of eugenics; the ethics of mobile phone based verbal autopsy in Nepal, and Dying Well. Aimar
 won a Catalyst Santander Award (£1000). Wilson was awarded a UCL Centre for Humanities
 Interdisciplinary Research Projects Scheme for The Human Right to Health and Priority Setting
 in Health Care. (£77,389).

 The Institute of Advanced Studies, co-founded by A&H in 2015 and supported by the Provost’s
 Strategic Fund, has provided the infrastructure for much of our interdisciplinary research and
 impact - hosting 20 events which UoA members organised or contributed to. We regularly use

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Bloomsbury Theatre, conveniently located on the same street as DP and STS, for various
 public outreach events. UCL Museums and special collections, such as the Grant Museum of
 Zoology and UCL Art Collections provide research and public engagement resources for STS
 and DP. Anthropology’s Artist in Residence worked with Stern on the creation and performance
 of a work at the Bloomsbury Theatre; Ambrosio regularly collaborates with UCL Culture and
 Museums, particularly the Grant Museum and the Pathology Lab Specimens, and is to serve on
 the UCL Art Museum Advisory board. Previously she was on the Slade Doctoral Board (2017-
 2020).

 UCL has an extensive set of library holdings in philosophy, and a very impressive and growing
 set of e-resources. These are supplemented externally by Senate House Library and the British
 Library. In addition to the many seminars and reading groups outlined above (§1, §2.2) several
 significant philosophy lecture series have been established at UCL, such as the Shearman
 Memorial Lectures (a series of three lectures, taking place every two or three years since 1948,
 most recently Kit Fine in 2018); The Bentham Lectures, organised in association with the
 Humanists UK (with speakers such as Simon Blackburn and Rae Langton). Notably, the Annual
 S.V. Keeling Lectures, the S.V. Keeling Colloquia and Workshops see leading figures in Ancient
 Philosophy such as Susanne Bobzien and A.A. Long present their work at UCL.

 London. London is one of the world’s great geographical concentrations of philosophical activity,
 rivalled only by New York and Oxford. The UoA works closely with the Institute of Philosophy in
 Senate House, which organises talks and conferences every week of term and houses visiting
 researchers, as well as the AS, the RIP, the British Society for the Philosophy of Science, and
 the Institute of Classical Studies. These elements are very well established and durable, in many
 cases going back decades.

 Apart from being able to benefit from, and contribute to, the programmes of events run by these
 organisations, our institutional relationships within London allow for reading Groups (with
 Birkbeck, KCL, LSE), London based research seminars: the London Aesthetics Forum, the
 Institute of Classical Studies, the London Mind Group, the KCL-UCL Ancient Philosophy Greek
 Reading Group, the seminar series of ancient philosophy lectures at the ICS, the Birkbeck
 Nietzsche Seminar, the ‘Practical, Political and Ethical’ seminar, the new London Group for
 Formal Philosophy.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Alongside UCL Philosophy’s commitment to intellectual freedom, diversity and innovation in
 research, the unit is characterised by an outward-facing ethos, committed to engaging with the
 wider world. This is greatly facilitated by the location of the UoA in the heart of London,
 cosmopolitan and connected.

 4.1 Collaboration and contribution to the research base

 UoA members are involved in many overseas research networks. Some aim at graduate
 education and research: Greene in the UCL-NYU Democracy and Legitimate Authority network
 organised a master class with Daniel Viehoff, NYU; Hyman led a Kaifeng Foundation initiative
 bringing PhD students from China to Oxford, Reading and KCL. These networks include the joint
 supervision of graduate students and organisation of conferences - for example, Ecole des
 Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, (Munoz-Dardé) and Ghent (Illari). Other collaborations
 develop specific research themes: Das’s Virtues of Attention Project, at NYU, Edwards’s
 European & Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership, Fenton-Glynn’s Methods of
 Causal Inference and Statistical Representation Research Group (Complutense University,
 Madrid), Greenberg’s Representation and Reality project, Gothenburg, Greene, Srinivasan and
 van Wietmarschen’s UCL-Yale Political Reasoning and the Discourse of Rights Group,
 Madden’s Spatial Cognition Project at Jean Nicod, Paris, Picollo’s Logic Supergroup. STS are
 part of the ‘Logical and Methodological Analysis of Scientific Reasoning Processes’ network
 involving 8 European universities, and the Causality in the Sciences Network (with Kent, Linz,

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ghent, New York, Amsterdam, Antwerp). Members sustain on-going long term overseas
 institutional collaborations: UCL-Berkeley and UCL-Leipzig, and Leigh’s UCL-Yale workshop
 ‘Virtues and Values’ initiating the London-Oxford-Yale Ancient Philosophy Network. These run
 alongside individual associations: Heuer in Berlin, Munoz-Dardé in Berlin, Berkeley and
 Barcelona, Picollo in Munich and Buenos Aires, Simpson in Monash, Zalabardo in Oviedo, La
 Laguna, and Sao Paulo.

 Members participate in many national research networks. STS founded and organises the
 Annual UK Integrated HPS meetings; Leigh co-founded and organises the termly Oxford-UCL-
 KCL-Cambridge Ancient graduate colloquium. O’Brien was on the advisory committee for an
 AHRC Research Project in Manchester, ‘Knowledge of Emotion: Expression and Social
 Cognition’ and is a Network member of a Templeton ‘Knowledge beyond Natural Science’
 project, Stirling. Aimar ran Oxford-UCL joint graduate philosophy seminars. Madden and O’Brien
 are members of a Philosophy of Mind Reading and Work in Progress Group. The UoA sustains
 many London-based research networks. We are involved in the All London HPS Reading
 Groups (KCL, UCL, LSE) organised by STS and the CPNSS at LSE, the London Centre for
 Ancient Philosophy (Birkbeck, KCL, Royal Holloway & UCL), the Institute of Classical Studies,
 the London Mind Group, the KCL-UCL Ancient Philosophy Greek Reading Group, the Birkbeck
 Nietzsche Seminar, the new London Group for Formal Philosophy. We run and participate in a
 number of the Institute of Philosophy’s research seminars: the Practical, Political and Ethical
 Seminar, the London Aesthetics Forum. Simpson and Greene co-organised a conference with
 QMUL. Gregory runs the Ancient Science conference with UCL, Keeling, and the Institute of
 Classical Studies.

 UCL Philosophy organises activities from major international conferences to small workshops
 and weekly seminar series. Organisers range from permanent faculty to post-doctoral
 researchers and graduate students. Members have been responsible for more than 55
 conferences, workshops and seminar series in the period: Heuer and Leigh have arranged with
 DP graduate students the annual UCL Philosophy Postgraduate Conference; Lavin, O’Brien and
 Stern 3 UCL-Leipzig Graduate Conferences. Madden, as Director of AS, shared responsibility
 for 7 Joint Sessions. Leigh, as Director of the Keeling Centre organises the annual Keeling
 Lecture and Masterclass, and workshops. O’Brien as Vice-Chair, now Chair of the RIP oversees
 the RIP Annual Debate. There have been many one-off conferences and workshops: for
 example, Greene organised (with KCL and NYU) ‘Value in Practice. Themes from the
 Philosophy of Joseph Raz’, Madden the ‘Appearances and Reality’ Conference; Rothschild
 organised 5 conferences and workshops: ‘DynSem’; ‘Truth Makers and Language’ (with Aimar);
 ‘Contexts and Variables’; ‘Meaning as Action’; ‘Bayesian Approaches to Pragmatics’. Two of our
 PGs, Hinshelwood and Geddes, organised a major international conference funded by the Mind
 Association: ‘Beings and Doings’. Another PG, Fischer, organised ‘Risk and Aggregation in
 Ethics’ with the LSE. Seminar series include a DP Departmental Symposium, regular work in
 progress seminars, for faculty and graduate students, theme-based seminars across all areas of
 the discipline.

 10 UoA members have accepted invitations from 18 international institutions for visiting
 professorships: Aimar at Princeton, Harvard, Oxford, Geneva, Button at NYU, UC Irvine, LMU
 Munich, Martin at Berkeley (permanent), Munoz-Dardé at EHESS, and also Berkeley
 (permanent), Illari at Ghent, Greene at Princeton, Hyman, as Santander Cátedra de Excelencia,
 at Univ. Carlos III, Madrid, at Philosophy Summer School in China, Shenzhen University, and as
 Sackler Scholar, Sackler Institute of Advanced Studies, Tel-Aviv. Lavin at Philosophy Summer
 School in China, Shenzhen University & Institute of Philosophy, at The Chinese Academy of
 Social Sciences, and as a Humboldt Fellow for Experienced Researchers, Leipzig, O’Brien at
 UCLA, and as Humboldt Visiting Professor in Leipzig, Zalabardo was invited to be Anderson
 Visiting Fellow, University of Sydney in 2020 (postponed).

 The period of assessment has seen a rich range of co-authorship with external authors at over
 30 universities and organisations, including Amsterdam, Bristol, Butler Indiana, Berkeley,
 Caltech, Carnegie Mellon University, Durham, EHESS, Georgetown, Harvard, Humboldt, Johns

                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hopkins, Kent, KCL, the LSE, Lingnam, LMU Munich, Melbourne, MIRA (Nepal), MIT, National
 Institutes of Health (USA), Pan American Health Organisation, South African Medical Research
 Council, the University of Notre Dame, NYU, Open University of Israel, Oxford, St Andrews,
 UCLA, UNC Chapel Hill, USC, Vienna York, Zurich, and WHO.

 The UoA contributes significantly to the research base: 14 members have actively served in an
 editorial role in 24 journals and monograph series. Several members are Editors of Journals.
 We are delighted to co-host Mind under the co-editorships of O'Brien and Moore in Oxford:
 many members of the DP are members of the editorial board. Hyman was Editor of British
 Journal of Aesthetics; Edwards was Editor-in-Chief Research Ethics; Illari is Joint Editor-in-
 Chief, European Journal for Philosophy of Science Rothschild is Editor for Journal of
 Philosophy; Gardner is Section Editor of Ergo, and Zalabardo is Area Editor of Theoria. We are
 proud of our editorial contribution to, among others, the British Journal of Aesthetics, the British
 Journal for the History of Philosophy, the European Journal Philosophy, Philosophy Quarterly,
 the Journal of American Philosophy Association, Sartre Studies International, the Journal of
 Semantics, Public Health Ethics, Philosophical Explorations, Ancient Philosophy Today, History
 of Philosophy Quarterly, and the Open Logic Project.

 Members of the UoA contributed significantly to the leadership of learned societies. 11
 individuals have played leadership roles: Ambrosio: Secretary British Society for the History of
 Science; British Society for the History of Science’s liaison with the Arts and Humanities
 Alliance; Executive Committee, The Society for Philosophy of Science in Practice; Executive and
 ad hoc Committees, the Charles S. Peirce Society; Fenton-Glynn and Nguyen: British Society
 for Philosophy of Science, programme committee. Gardner: Founding Scholar of the British
 Psychoanalytic Council. Heuer: AS Executive Committee; Hyman: RIP Council, British Society
 for Aesthetics Trustee; Honorary Committee of the British Wittgenstein Society. Illari: Committee
 of the British Society for Philosophy of Science; Women’s Caucus of the European Society for
 the Philosophy of Science. Madden is Honorary Director of the AS; Munoz-Dardé: RIP Council
 and Chair, Jacobsen Committee; O’Brien: Vice-Chair, and now Chair, Executive Committee
 member, and Chair of Review Committee, of the RIP; Tobin: Programme Committee European
 Philosophy of Science Association, Advisory Board, CPNSS LSE, Wilson: Member, RIP Council.

 Members have undertaken (i) programme reviews: Hyman (IVQR), Madden: External Review of
 Warwick PGR programmes, Munoz-Dardé, Institute of Philosophy at Leiden, Chairperson of
 Commission for the Evaluation of the Philosophy Unit at Paris Sorbonne Tobin: Strategic
 Review, HPS Cambridge; O’Brien: External for ‘Learning and Teaching Review’, Philosophy
 Faculty, Cambridge; Wilson: Quinquennial Reviewer of University of Oxford PPE Program;
 Zalabardo: External Member, Review Panel, Philosophy, Cape Town) (ii) external tenure and
 promotion reviews at over 30 institutions including Auburn; Bar Ilan University, Israel; Chicago;
 Colgate; Columbia; Cornell; University of Crete, Greece; FAU; Florida State University; Haifa
 University, Israel; Heythrop; Harvard; University of Kent; KCL; Lingnan University, Hong Kong,
 LSE, U Maryland - College Park; McGill, Montreal; MIT; UT Austin, UC San Diego Southern
 Methodist University, South Africa’s National Research Foundation, Southampton; Sydney, Tel-
 Aviv University, Israel; UAE, Warwick. (iii) external assessment Professorial appointments at
 Glasgow, Cambridge, Collège de France, Paris 1-Panthéon Sorbonne, Harvard. (iv) external
 examiner for over 80 doctoral theses, in the UK, in Europe and internationally. (v) funding
 reviews for 41 funding bodies: Ambrosio: Leverhulme, National Science Foundation, UCL
 Beacons for Public Engagement; Das, Hong Kong Research Grants Council, Edwards:
 Wellcome, MRC; Gardner: Royal Society; Academy of Finland; Research Council University of
 Leuven; Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft; Leverhulme; Deutscher Akademischer
 Austauschdienst; Gregory: Leverhulme, SSRC, Wellcome; Greene: Netherlands Institute for
 Advanced Studies; Horton: ISF (Israel) Hyman: Kaifeng Foundation Advisory Council, Academy
 of Finland; Illari: FWO (Flanders, Belgium), Alan Turing Institute, Trond Mohn Foundation
 (Bergen, Norway). Leigh: IRC (Ireland), Madden: AHRC, Nguyen: FNRS (Belgium) and NSF,
 Tobin: National Science Foundation, FWO (Belgium). IRCHSS, Ireland, British Academy, AHRC;
 Munoz-Dardé: AHRC, ESRC, ANR (France), FNRS (Belgium), Université Catholique de Louvain
 (Belgium), CRA (Belgium), SNF (Switzerland), CNRS (France), ECOS-Sud (French Ministries

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Foreign Affairs and National Education and Research), AXA Research Fund (France), CNRC
 (Canada), FCT (Portugal) FWF (Austria), ISF (Israel), ERC, EU, Academy of Finland (Suomen
 Akatemia), IF (France), NOW (Netherlands); O’Brien: IRC (Ireland), Ireland Postgraduate
 Scholarship Scheme; Rothschild: Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Alexander von Humboldt
 Foundation (Germany), FWF (Austria), NOW (Netherlands); Simpson: Australian Research
 Council; Wilson: ZonMw - Organisation for Health Research and Development (Netherlands).

 Members have peer-reviewed for all major philosophy journals, including Ethics, Mind,
 Philosophical Review, Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, Journal of Philosophy and
 Noûs, and for publishers including OUP and CUP. We have also reviewed for many specialist
 journals such as the Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour, Mind and Language, Philosophy
 Compass, American Political Science Review, Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy, Phronesis,
 Apeiron, and Ancient Philosophy, History of Philosophy, Philosophy of Science, British Journal
 of Science, Nature, Healthcare and Philosophy, BMJ, AJOB, BMC Medical Ethics, Trials, PloS
 One. O’Brien is a consultant for Penguin.

 4.2 Contribution to economy and society

 UCL Philosophy has a strong public service ethos, and is actively engaged in building impactful
 relationships locally, nationally, and internationally. Our Research and Impact Strategy has
 generated a wide range of public engagement and knowledge transfer activities including (i)
 Collaboration with government and NGOs (ii) Public engagement through the media; (iii) Public
 engagement through arts, museums, and theatre (iv) Public engagement through
 schools/prisons; and (v) Public engagement through public lectures and institutions aiming at
 outreach.

 The UoA is passionately engaged in matters local, national, and international. This is reflected in
 all of the impact studies submitted. Four members of the UoA work with Government bodies
 and NGOs. Edwards contributes expertise at a local level through Camden, North London
 Health Trusts, UCLH, and St George's in medical ethics; she contributes internationally through
 her work with WHO GOARN, WHO AFRO, and PANDORA-ID, working with developing
 countries in Africa and Asia. Wilson likewise offers expert ethics advice across different
 elements of the NHS, offering guidance on policy and ethics on data gathering, storage and use.
 Edwards and Illari both sit on committees which provide key guidance on data ethics at a
 national and international level.

 Members engage the public through television, radio, print, podcasts and online media:
 Edwards through BBC World on the West African Ebola outbreak, Gregory as History of
 Science consultant for US documentary ‘Africa’s Great Civilisations’. Wilson as consultant and
 speaker on BBC Ideas documentary on the eradication of smallpox, and on digital legacies.
 O’Brien through ‘Free Thinking’, BBC Radio 3, Richmond through ‘In our Time’, Radio 4,
 Simpson and Stern through ABC Radio Rational, ‘The Philosophers’ Zone’ and on CBC’s
 Sunday Edition. Edwards featured widely in the news media – Mail Online, More, Telegraph,
 Washington Post, Evening Standard, Mirror, Independent, Metro, New Scientist, Sun, Star,
 Yahoo! News, MSN News, Seattle Times, Belfast Telegraph, China Daily, New Zealand Herald –
 on SARS-Cov-2 and anthroponotic risk. Aimar, Richmond, and Stern published in the Times
 Literary Supplement, The Point and the Literary Review. Wilson has featured on the ‘philosophy
 bites’ podcast, and Fenton-Glynn produced a video on logical fallacies for a student-led public
 engagement initiative, Fallacies Thailand, and a UCL Public Engagement Video on
 disagreement.

 12 members took on public engagement with schools or prisons. Several are involved in the
 newly formed Philosophy and Prisons charity. O’Brien, as Vice-Chair of the RIP, has spear-
 headed the organisation of courses in two prisons since 2017. Ambrosio, Fenton-Glynn,
 Kalderon, Leigh, Madden, Tobin and Zalabardo have done outreach talks, and ran ‘Philosophy
 for schools’ programmes at London and Sussex schools. Leigh, Madden and Button have been
 involved in running Summer Schools, and ‘taster’ lectures, for UCL’s year 12 and 13 Outreach

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes. Members of the unit have also produced educational materials. Richmond, with
 John Vorhaus, from the Institute of Education made a short documentary (with a grant from the
 Dean’s Strategic Fund) about the work of the Oily Cart theatre company for practitioners working
 with children with profound disabilities. Munoz-Dardé published Justice et Critique, used
 throughout the French-speaking world to teach Rawls.

 Members have engaged new audiences by taking their work into museum and theatre spaces,
 as well as by collaborating with artists: Ambrosio’s opera project exploring the history and
 philosophy of science through the objects of the UCL Art Collections; Gardner at Arcola Theatre,
 Dalston, as part of the Philosophy in Life series; Kalderon writing artists’ gallery statements;
 Leigh at the British Museum at their Members Night, discussing Plato; Nguyen’s at the Jeffery
 Rubinoff Sculpture Park and Institute of Arts and Ideas Blogpost; Stern collaborated with the
 choreographer Léa Tirabasso for a number of dance pieces, performed in UK, France,
 Luxembourg.

 The four learned societies in which members play leadership and organisational roles – AS,
 RIP, Institute of Philosophy, Institute of Classical Studies – are active in public engagement.
 The numerous events held by these societies, are open to, and attended by, the public.

 Members of the UoA, at all levels and stages, embrace opportunities to take their subject to the
 communities that support it. They are active participants in UCL’s Festival of Ideas/Festival of
 Culture; the DP has an established relationship with the Stuart Low Trust, Philosophy Forum,
 which aims to ensure that those ‘experiencing social isolation or mental distress, have access to
 the support they need for better health and wellbeing’. Stern, O’Brien, Leigh, Simpson have
 spoken at the Forum, Stern is a regular volunteer and organiser, and UCL Philosophy graduates
 act as volunteers.

 The founding of UCL reflected the impact of philosophical ideas on the broader culture. The
 distinctive spirit of the philosophy department after WWII emphasised the role that critical
 perspectives can play within the academy and the wider world. UCL Philosophy in this
 assessment period aims to live up to the ambitions that our predecessors laid down. We have
 fostered a culture of critical individual thought which takes us from the most abstract questions to
 engagement with all aspects of the wider society.




                                                                                             Page 16
