Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth


 Unit of Assessment: 33 - Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies


 1     Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1       Unit context and structure

 Our submission comprises 20 researchers from three Schools in the Faculty of Creative and
 Cultural Industries (CCI):

           Film, Media and Communication (FMC)
           Art, Design and Performance (ADP), and
           Creative Technologies (CT).

 This submission is the University of Portsmouth’s first to Unit of Assessment 33. For REF 2014,
 we submitted Film and Screen Studies research to UoA 36 (Communication, Cultural and Media
 Studies, Library and Information Management), not yet having established the critical mass to
 submit our research in the areas of Music, Drama, and Performing Arts. Following our
 consolidation of existing research strengths and sustained strategic development of new
 research capacity since 2014, our submission now demonstrates research excellence across the
 Unit.

 Our Faculty analysis following REF 2014 identified a need to cultivate a more dynamic and
 collaborative research culture, and an ambition to increase subject areas submitted to REF
 2021. To deliver this, we made substantial investments in research groups over this REF census
 period, including: Music, Dance, Drama and Performing Arts; Media Culture and
 Communication; Conflict and Culture; Screen Practice; and Music Technology. Our groups are
 designed to foster cross-school and cross-faculty research, and host guest speakers, regular
 developmental workshops, seminars, symposia and conferences. All researchers and
 postgraduate research students (PGRSs) in the Unit are members of one research group, and
 we encourage associate membership in others to promote collaborative interdisciplinarity. Our
 submission includes all research group leaders (Burrows, Geraghty, Harper, Friedman and
 Pearse).

 Our submission reflects the breadth and depth of our research. Our members conduct cutting-
 edge research in the areas of musical theatre, jazz and race, voice studies, music editing, dance
 for the musical stage, theatre and ecology, Holocaust theatre, sound and electroacoustic
 composition, applied theatre, screen media and representation, genre studies, film history,
 fantasy and animation, transnational film studies, transmedia fan studies and queer and
 transgender cultures. We present our research through a broad spectrum of outputs, including
 monographs, book chapters, journal articles, compositions, critical editions of music, as well as
 software and practice-research projects involving performance making.

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our Associate Dean of Research (ADR), Sugg Ryan, leads our Faculty’s research activity in
 collaboration with Executive Dean Keeble. They are supported by our School Heads and
 Research Leads, who provide additional research leadership. REF preparations are coordinated
 by the Faculty REF Operation Group and the University’s REF Steering Committee. Our Unit
 also benefits from two co-leads, selected to ensure gender balance, subject specialism, and staff
 knowledge across our diverse subject areas. Burrows represents Music, Dance, Drama and
 Performing Arts, while Shaw represents Film and Screen Studies. Our UoA co-leads coordinate
 with School Research Leads, Research Group leaders and Heads of School, reporting to the
 ADR, the Faculty REF Operation Group and the University’s REF Steering Committee.

 1.2     Research and impact strategy

 Since 2014, our Unit’s research strategy has focused on three primary goals:

       1. To develop our researchers’ profiles and strengthen and expand research output
       2. To support and foster public and community engagement by our researchers, and
       3. To strategically deepen and expand our research impact.

 Our recruitment and ongoing staff development have been central to this strategy. In this, the
 Unit aligns with the wider University strategy to ‘Engage more people in excellent research,
 building critical mass in existing and emerging areas of our strength’ and ‘Deliver impact for our
 community, (and) our region’ (See Institutional Level Environment Statement [ILES], Strategy,
 point 2, p.1).

 Our central aim over this census period was to support the development of our staff to
 produce internationally-recognised research in growth areas including Musical Theatre,
 Applied Theatre, Contemporary Theatre and Performance, Film and Screen Studies, and Music
 Technology. This aim has guided our considerable investment in staff, research-support
 schemes and facilities (see Section 3). Our Unit works within the University’s strategic priorities
 (see ILES 1.1, Growing Capacity and Developing Capability, p.1), and we encourage our
 members to attend the Research and Innovation Staff Development Programme (ILES 2.1, p.6).
 Our principal mechanism for fostering sustained research activity and development is our
 research workload allocation, providing all Unit members with a baseline allocation of 20%.
 Heads of School assess individual members’ needs and performance in the annual Professional
 Development Review (PDR), which determines increases in workload allowance for the following
 academic year.

 Musical Theatre represents a key area of our strategic growth. Our Unit’s staff founded the first
 academic journal for the field, entitled Studies in Musical Theatre (Intellect Books), after
 establishing the international ‘Song, Stage and Screen’ conference at Portsmouth. From this
 discipline-defining position of international research leadership, we developed specialist
 undergraduate provision and associated infrastructure and resources, including the new White
 Swan Building (see section 3). We also broadened our research capacity in Music Technology,
 Applied Theatre, Dance and Performance through strategic appointments of research-active
 lecturers (Danowski, Hughes, Hull, McNamara, Rumsey and Wakefield). These investments

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 have resulted in impactful, high-quality research across the Unit. Building on existing research
 strengths in film and screen studies, they have enabled selectivity in the 50 outputs chosen from
 our larger eligible pool.

 Our second strategic objective was to increase public and community engagement with our
 research. Working collaboratively, we aligned our research expertise with the University’s
 current strategy (Vision 2030 and Strategy 2025) to deliver impact for our community and region,
 contributing to our goal to become one of the UK’s ‘leading civic universities […] through the
 positive differences we make across our region’.

 To achieve this, our research groups identified strategically significant local events and
 coordinated our members’ participation. Events included Portsmouth Festivities; Journeys
 International Festival (Smith, M., Hughes, Bucknall, Macpherson); Portsmouth’s Comic Con (co-
 run with The Guildhall Trust), which included talks and panels (Austin, Geraghty, Gruner, Norris,
 Shaw); public talks for Portsmouth’s Dark Fest (Austin, Geraghty and Shaw); and film
 introductions for No.6 Cinema and Portsmouth Film Society (Austin, Norris, Geraghty and
 Shaw). Our members have also contributed to Being Human’s events (Austin, Danowski,
 Friedman, Geraghty, Macpherson and Shaw).

 Our Unit’s third strategic objective was to develop impactful research in line with the
 University’s overarching strategic themes, particularly Democratic Citizenship and Health and
 Wellbeing, and deliver impact through strategic partnerships (ILES, objective 2:2. p.3). As such,
 the University and Faculty have invested in projects engaging with these themes. For instance,
 the Democratic Citizenship Research and Innovation Fund (TRIF) enabled Friedman to
 undertake the community engagement project ‘The Role of Creative Practices in Countering
 Hate and Extremism’ (2019-2020).

 Faculty funding for impactful public engagement research also led to projects captured in two
 Impact Case Studies. As outlined in REF3 UoP33Theatre, Smith (M) and Hughes’ research for
 the Action against COVID Transmission (ACT) project played a pivotal role in informing the work
 of the Mukuru Arts Centre in Nairobi. The ACT project (June to September 2020) delivered
 training and developed resources to support a community in the informal settlement of Mukuru,
 Nairobi. It raised awareness of the COVID-19 crisis, disseminating public health messages
 through applied creative methods to respond to the pandemic and reduce transmission. Smith’s
 work in applied puppetry and Hughes’ research in transformative storytelling were instrumental
 in developing a practical toolkit to engage and educate local communities about the risks and
 dangers of COVID-19. Hughes employed her research into digital storytelling to narrate local
 ways of expressing fears and concerns about the developing pandemic. Smith drew on his
 research of applied theatre puppetry techniques to offer local artists new tools to convey
 messages and responses. Their research also benefitted the local community through Smith’s
 applied research in puppetry for marginalised communities in the Portsmouth region, while
 Hughes’ work with military veterans in the local community explored post-service experiences
 and traumas through theatricalized storytelling. Investment in Hughes and Smith’s work fostered



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 impactful partnerships with the Journeys Festival International and the National Museum of the
 Royal Navy (Portsmouth Historic Dockyard).

 Local, national and international engagements were also central to another Impact Case Study,
 REF3 UoP33MusicalArchives. Our Unit’s investment in Burrows and Jagger’s research
 produced critical editions of music, public lectures, exhibitions and performances, demonstrating
 the significant impact in performance and reception outlined in their ICS.

 1.3     Future plans and strategic objectives over the next five years

 Our future plans focus on five primary aims:

       1. To create and grow research centres for Popular Culture, and Creative and
          Immersive Extended Reality (CCI-XR). For the latter, we have already secured £3.6M
          of investment from the Solent Local Enterprise Partnership to establish state-of-the-art
          XR labs and multi-media facilities (opening October 2021). The centres will facilitate
          synergies across research groups, facilitating larger and more impactful projects.
       2. To cultivate a more coordinated approach to developing major grant applications.
          For example, our new CCI-XR research centre will provide opportunities to develop bids
          with non-academic partners and funders. Our targeted development and cohort-training
          approach will support this goal, aiming our efforts towards specific funding schemes
          offered by UKRI research councils and other funders. Alignment between the two new
          research centres will strengthen our efforts.
       3. To expand our practice-led research and work more closely with the University’s
          Future and Emerging Technologies thematic area. Our multidisciplinary cross-faculty
          Practice Research Group (CCI-PRAG) will support and coordinate this drive.
       4. To significantly expand and develop our postgraduate culture to increase PGR
          student numbers. The expansion and development of new modes of study based on
          practice-based research and PhDs by Publication will be key to this. We will draw on the
          expertise of our Faculty’s successful applicants to the AHRC Collaborative Doctoral
          Partnership to increase applications to the scheme and aim to secure membership of an
          AHRC Doctoral Training Programme in the next round.
       5. To support research-career progression at all levels and increase our Unit’s
          research intensity, paying particular attention to diversity and inclusion. We aim to
          increase the number of senior research leaders through the targeted development of our
          career-progression and promotion pipeline.

 1.4     Progress towards an open research environment

 Our Unit follows the University’s Open Access policy (ILES 3.2, point 24, p.4), achieving an
 overall OA-compliance rate of 92% for all in scope articles during the REF period. Our 100%
 OA-compliance rates every year since 2017 demonstrate our commitment and progress.
 Furthermore, 100% of our Unit’s staff have an ORCID in PURE.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5    Research integrity and ethics

 Our Unit follows the University’s commitments under the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity (ILES 3.2, 22, p.4). All our research projects, including externally/internally funded and
 unfunded, follow the University’s ethics guidance and are reviewed by our Faculty Ethics
 Committee (ILES 3.2, 23, p.4). Beyond these formal procedures, we have embedded ethical
 considerations as a fundamental guiding principle for all our work, as demonstrated by the
 research presented in this submission (see Section 2).




 2     People

 Of our UoA’s 20 researchers, 8 FTE work in Film and Screen Studies and 11.8 FTE in Music,
 Drama, Dance and Performing Arts. Our submission includes 2 Professors and 3 Readers, 11
 Senior Lecturers, 2 Lecturers, 1 Academic Lead and 1 Director of Music. To increase research
 intensity, we follow the strategic staffing strategy outlined below and have increased research-
 support mechanisms.

 2.1    Staffing strategy

 Our strategic recruitment of ambitious, research-active staff (ILES, 32, p.6) and support of
 existing staff has enabled our inaugural REF submission to UoA 33. During the REF census
 period, we have appointed two Lecturers (both men), four Senior Lecturers (two women and two
 men), and two Heads of School (one woman and one man). We have sought to maintain a
 balance of staff at different career levels, recruiting a mix of senior staff with managerial
 experience, mid-career and early career researchers to combine experience with potential.
 Three of our Unit’s staff are ECRs, and six are non-UK nationals.

 Our Unit is committed to recognising and rewarding excellence in research leadership, impact
 and outputs. We promoted 50% of our submitted staff during the census period: 50% of
 submitted women and 50% of submitted men. To ensure our Unit’s strong research leadership
 and recognise staff achievements, we also promoted three members to Reader (one woman and
 two men) and two from Reader to Professor (one woman and one man).

 We based appointments during this census period on our key research needs, making strategic
 appointments in Drama and Performance to develop capacity and sustainability in vital research
 areas. Building on existing strengths in Musical Theatre (Burrows, MacDonald and Macpherson),
 we appointed Rumsey to add her complementary research on dance and choreography in
 Musical Theatre. We also built on Smith’s impactful work in Applied Theatre, appointing Hughes
 and McNamara. We have aimed to enhance and enrich diversity and inclusivity in our research
 areas through these new appointments. Examples include McNamara’s research on the value of
 the arts and performance for young transgender people, Hughes’ work on Holocaust memorials
 and performance and trauma experienced by military personnel, and Danowski’s work
 highlighting representations of race and ethnicity in creative theatre practices. Alongside

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Wakefield, who researches theatre and ecology, these appointments were central to our
 research strategy, with all new members combining theory and practice in their research. Our
 appointment of Sergeant in Screen Studies has boosted our profile in popular film culture,
 specifically in the areas of psychoanalysis, fantasy and animation. We appointed Hull to lead the
 School of Creative Technologies and develop music technology research. He oversaw the
 establishment of our new Music Technology Research Group in 2019 and was appointed
 Reader in Composition in 2020.

 We aim to recruit staff with PhDs to strengthen the foundations of our research expertise. Except
 for one long-standing practice-based researcher, our Unit’s staff all have PhDs. Supporting our
 ambition to deepen and expand our research, our Faculty also has several academic staff
 outside of this submission who come from practice film and media backgrounds (currently
 studying for their PhDs under our UoA researchers’ supervision). We will foster and support their
 inclusion in our next REF submission.

 2.2   Staff Development and Support

 Our Unit adheres to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (ILES,
 2.2.2, 41, p.7). All Unit members undergo an annual Performance and Development Review
 (PDR) to monitor progress and development, jointly organised and conducted by senior
 researchers and School Heads. Our PDR places research at the heart of career development,
 enabling us to factor resource requirements into our research plans at the individual, School and
 Unit level. We guide, support and mentor staff towards developing research plans and profiles,
 achieving research goals, and producing grant applications. Our coaching scheme partners
 experienced researchers with developing ones, providing extra support. The scheme offers
 developing researchers up to three 30-minute one-to-one conversations over the academic year
 to cover personal research strategies, plans, career progression, funding bids and research-
 project management.

 Our Unit supports researchers at each stage of their career and follows the University’s targeted
 support mechanisms for ECRs (ILES, objective 2.2.2, pp.6-7). All ECRs join research groups. In
 addition, we aim to cultivate and build supervisory experience and capacity by deploying ECRs
 on PhD supervisory teams, helping them learn to be effective PhD supervisors alongside more
 experienced staff.

 Research group leads, School research leads, and Unit leads contribute to planning regular
 developmental events at the Faculty level to complement University-wide research development
 activities (ILES, objective 2. 2.1, p. 6). At the Unit level, activities have included: in-house
 publishing workshops run by experienced staff, to which all staff and PGRS are invited;
 workshops on producing high-quality 3* and 4* written outputs; a two-day workshop for film
 practitioners new to research; and a workshop on presenting practice work for the REF. Three
 staff members are part of the Practice Research Working Group (CCI-PRAG), helping other staff
 to articulate and present their practice outputs. Our Unit has also hosted a one-day writing




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 workshop run by a specialist external facilitator, with an emphasis on supporting ECRs. Faculty
 training events on research funding are outlined in section 3 below.

 To ensure that senior researchers are supported to be effective research leaders, the University
 has invested in two ongoing schemes: The Research Leadership Programme (completed by
 Geraghty and Shaw) and the Reader to Research Lead Programme (completed by Hull). These
 schemes include coaching and mentoring sessions and workshops on how best to support early
 and mid-career colleagues. To ensure staff at all levels will benefit from such schemes the
 University will be launching a new early to mid-career programme in October 2021.

 All Unit members have access to a Conference Support Fund (adapted for COVID-19 travel
 restrictions to cover online conference registration fees), and we provide additional financial
 support for those with caring responsibilities. We have also developed sabbaticals and other
 internal research funding schemes during the census period to provide researchers with the time
 and resources to produce high-quality research outputs. All staff can apply for one term of
 sabbatical leave to undertake a pre-defined project (e.g. complete a monograph or article or
 progress a research funding application). Unit staff who have been awarded sabbaticals in the
 census period include Burrows, Bucknall, Friedman, Geraghty, Gruner, Hughes, MacDonald,
 Macpherson, Pearse, and Shaw. Staff from the Unit who have received funding from the
 Research Innovation Impact Acceleration Fund (RIIAF) include Danowski, Hughes, McNamara,
 Smith (M), Sergeant, and Burrows.

 Burrows, Geraghty, Macpherson and Shaw’s sabbaticals have resulted in significant research
 outputs and grant applications. The latter includes three to the AHRC and one to the Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks scheme. Burrows was awarded £45,266 in
 2021 for an AHRC research network, ‘Musical Theatre and All That Jazz’. While not funded,
 Shaw’s project on film and migration in Mexico, Central America and the US was scored highly
 by the AHRC panel, and her research resulted in the acceptance and publication of 2 peer-
 reviewed articles. Although Geraghty’s multinational Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN Horizon 2020
 grant application was unsuccessful, research for the project resulted in three book chapters, one
 journal article and a special-issue roundtable in the Journal of the History of Childhood and
 Youth. Hughes and Smith’s impact work (described above and in the ICS REF3 UoP33Theatre)
 was supported and facilitated by the Research Innovation Impact Acceleration Fund. In addition,
 Macpherson’s AHRC grant application for ‘Original Cast Recordings: Musical Theatre and/as
 Sonic Heritage’ will be submitted in 2021.

 2.3   Equality and Diversity

 Of our Unit’s submitted academic staff, 30% are women – slightly below the 36% of female staff
 in our eligible staff pool. However, data on our gender pay-gap indicate a mean difference of 6%
 favouring female staff, suggesting a healthy proportion of women in senior roles. Nonetheless,
 we will address the under-representation of women in the Unit as a priority going forward,
 including work towards Athena Swan Awards (ILES, objective 3, 44, p.7). The School of Creative
 Technologies already holds a Bronze Athena Swan Award, while the Schools of Art, Design and
 Performance, and Film, Media and Communication are currently working on their applications.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We will also encourage and support more women to participate in the HE Aurora Leadership
 Programme.

 We aim to address our Unit's BAME representation as a primary concern. 6% of our submitted
 staff are BAME, compared to 5% of our eligible staff, suggesting no biases in our REF
 processes. While this aligns with the sector averages for our disciplines (Music, Dance, Drama
 and Performing Arts: 5.3% BAME, Media Studies, 7.2% BAME, giving a combined figure of 6%
 BAME), we recognise that BAME people remain underrepresented in the sector as a whole, and
 are taking steps to tackle this. Our Faculty is taking action to address low BAME figures in staff
 recruitment. In 2020, for example, our Unit staff took part in a series of anti-racism development
 sessions with the organisation ‘Shades of Noir’. Participants included the Heads of School, who
 sit on hiring panels, and the sessions addressed curriculum design, research agendas, learning
 and work-environment cultures and staff recruitment. Members of our Unit also actively engage
 in and support Equality and Diversity initiatives that aim to tackle BAME and female under-
 representation in our Schools. For example, Hull is our Faculty’s Athena Swan Champion and a
 member of the University Athena Swan Core Group. Danowski is on the University self-
 assessment team for the Race Equality Charter. McNamara is a mentor and role model for the
 University’s Aurora programme and our Faculty’s Race Equality Charter champion. In addition,
 our UoA leads and internal reviewers have all completed Advance HE’s Equality and Diversity
 training to ensure equitable review and selection processes. We are confident that these
 processes enabled a fair selection of outputs, irrespective of gender, ethnicity or status.

 Our Unit follows the University’s commitment to Equality and Diversity (ILES, objective 3. p.7).
 All Unit members have completed the University’s three core modules on Equality and Diversity
 training (Unconscious Bias, Bullying and Harassment, and Equality in Higher Education). Our
 Unit also actively supports the University’s membership of Stonewall’s Diversity Champions
 Programme, with Unit members working closely with the wider LGBTQ community to promote
 inclusion in the city. This includes participating in LGBTQ History Month citywide events through
 collaborations with Portsmouth City Council and Portsmouth Film Society. Members of our Unit
 also publish regularly on LGBTQ themes (e.g. McNamara and Shaw).

 Our Unit actively addresses barriers to engagement in research activities and opportunities. We
 offer flexible working plans to support staff with caring responsibilities. We have supported all
 staff to work remotely since the onset of COVID, with all research activities and meetings taking
 place online since March 2020. We will pursue a mixed online and in-person approach for
 research events in future.

 Through research group activities and mentoring, we encourage all Unit members to pursue
 research interests with equality and diversity at their centre. Our Unit has supported research
 with a focus on ethical concerns. In addition to research already mentioned, example projects
 within the census period include:

       Burrow’s work on racial representations and antiracism within musical cultures
       Harper’s work on ethics and the representation of war in film and television


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

           Friedman’s research on Palestinian and Israeli film, and her work countering racism in
            marginalized communities through creative practice in music and film
           Shaw’s research on transnational, queer and trans representations in screen cultures
            and filmic narratives of migration in Central America, Mexico and the United States, and
           Smith’s puppetry work with immigrant/refugee communities.

 2.4       Research Students

 2.4.1 Integration into research culture
 We recognise and value our postgraduate research students (PGRSs) as an essential part of
 our Unit’s research culture. In line with our wider Faculty strategy, we have allocated significant
 QR funds to bursaries that support PGRSs’ full and part-time registration. We nurture and
 develop PGRS skills and confidence through integrated training and seminar programmes in
 which PhD students participate alongside established staff researchers, supported by
 supervisory tutorials. PGRSs also present to their supervisors prior to their seminar. These
 developmental opportunities led to our Unit PGRSs’ participation in annual Faculty-wide
 postgraduate research conferences. Our students also attend regular research meetings to
 discuss and share research and to network with other students and researchers. Our Faculty
 Research Degree Coordinator leads fortnightly catch-up sessions and, prior to COVID-19
 restrictions, a monthly research lunch to which all PhD students and supervisory teams are
 invited. Departmental Research Degrees Coordinators (DRDCs) also set up regular peer-to-peer
 meetings between students. Furthermore, we strategically assigned PhD students office space
 next to academic staff to facilitate easy access and engagement with them and to help integrate
 PhD students into our research culture.

 2.4.2 Recruitment and Funding

 Alongside developing our student-staff research culture, we aimed to increase the numbers of
 PhD students in our Unit over this REF period. New registrations have risen from 52 in
 2017/2018 to 82 in 2019/2020 in our Faculty (and proportionately in our Unit). As well as the
 interest generated by our staff’s research outputs, our primary mechanism for attracting students
 have been advertisements for fully-funded Faculty bursaries and University strategic and global
 bursaries. Our Faculty offers up to four bursaries per annum to promote research in strategic
 areas complementing the University-wide schemes. Beyond these awards, we also attract self-
 funding candidates through our bursary advertisements. Since 2017, we have enrolled 44
 students in our Faculty PhD programmes.

 In keeping with the wider University’s admissions policy (ILES 3.30, p.5), we carefully word our
 bursary advertisements to emphasise the value of candidates with protected characteristics and
 encourage uptake from communities experiencing barriers to PhD study. We also encourage
 dialogue from candidates with non-traditional backgrounds and qualifications. In this way, we
 have sought to develop a diverse and international postgraduate student body, with 30% of our
 PhD students during this REF period coming from overseas.

 2.4.3 Monitoring and support mechanisms

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All PhD students in our Unit take part in an annual review, requiring them to submit a thesis
 outline, a summary of their progress and training over the year, and draft sections of their thesis.
 Our academic panel assesses the submitted material and interviews the PGRS. We ensure this
 process is as supportive as possible, carefully choosing assessors with a complementary
 research background and promoting constructive feedback. We offer any PGRS who has not
 made sufficient progress the opportunity to re-submit their work within an agreed deadline for a
 second (and final) review meeting. To monitor progress and resolve any emerging issues, each
 student’s primary supervisor also meets with them for regular one-to-one check-ins alongside
 additional meetings with their supervisory team, providing reports on their progress to the
 DRDC.

 We offer dedicated funds for PGRSs to attend national and international conferences so they
 can improve their presentational skills and utilise networking opportunities. Our Unit’s students
 have also benefitted from the University’s measures to overcome the effects of COVID-19 on
 PGRS research and progression, which include no-cost fee extensions, access to the student
 hardship fund, and other targeted support (see ILES COVID Annex, p.10). We also offered
 increased online support to our PGRSs, including an enhanced online Graduate School
 Development Programme.

 2.4.4 Skills development and career preparation

 Personal, professional and career development are integral to the content of the Graduate
 School Development Programme, which aligns with the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework (RDF) (ILES 2.2.1., 38, p.6). Supervisors encourage students to identify their training
 needs and arrange internal and external Continuing Professional Development (CPD) to meet
 them, assessing their progress and development in the Annual Reviews and adjusting training
 goals accordingly. Our Graduate School provides 76 training sessions across the RDF domains,
 11 of which specifically address job searching, preparing CVs and application forms,
 transferable skills, personality-type analysis, interviews, entrepreneurialism, and sourcing and
 applying for research funding. Our Careers and Employability Service also provides a
 comprehensive range of resources and training.

 We provide each PGRS with a supervisory team of at least two (usually three) supervisors with
 expertise relevant to the student’s topic and/or methodology. All supervisors complete
 supervisory training provided by the Graduate School. The supervisory team assesses the
 student’s training requirements and advises on how best to meet them, primarily through the
 Graduate School’s comprehensive programme of training courses. We require all PGRSs to
 complete ten hours of training per year, and complement the Graduate School programme with
 bespoke developmental sessions at the Faculty and School/Department level. A recent example
 is our ‘Ethics for Creatives’ event, which provided a panel of experts to ‘demystify’ the ethics
 process and offer research tips and insights ranging from interviews to collaborative practice-
 focused research.

 We encourage students to participate in seminars, conferences and research groups, guided by
 support from their supervisors to prepare them. We also encourage our PGRSs to submit their

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 work for publication, facilitated by peer-review feedback from their supervisory team. Our
 students have had articles published in several peer-reviewed journals, including Transnational
 Screens, The Journal of Science and Popular Culture, and The Historical Journal of Film, Radio,
 and Television.

 Employability and career training are a vital part of our PGRS provision. We encourage and
 facilitate our PGRSs to acquire lecturing experience, providing our students with paid supervisor-
 supported teaching experiences. To begin teaching, PGRSs must enrol on the Graduate
 Students Professional Development teacher-training programme, provided by the Department
 for Curriculum and Quality Enhancement. In the last Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (2019), our Faculty scored in the top quartile of universities for PGRS professional development
 (82%) and teaching opportunities (82%), with 49% of our PGRSs employed in lecturing and 92%
 receiving formal teaching training.




 3     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1     Research funding and strategies

 Our income generation strategy has been threefold:

       1. To increase and diversify research funding applications, covering a wider range of
          sponsors and project scales
       2. To target funding towards developing public and community engagement
       3. To support our members with training and internal feedback.

 We have balanced smaller-scale projects with larger UKRI-funded projects. Examples of the
 latter include Musical Theatre projects run by MacDonald, Smith’s (J) AHRC project on British
 Music Video, and Burrows’ AHRC Research Network project, ‘Musical Theatre and All That
 Jazz’. Our Unit’s strategy has been to support more senior, experienced members with larger
 grant applications and encourage ECRs and mid-career researchers to apply for smaller
 schemes to build the experience and confidence to apply to more competitive UKRI schemes
 subsequently.

 We support colleagues in their bidding plans through our annual Performance and Development
 Reviews (PDRs), our mentoring and coaching schemes, and regular workshops on Research
 Council funding. The latter includes Faculty-run workshops on the British Academy/Leverhulme
 small research grants, the AHRC research fellowship scheme, and the research grants scheme.

 Our Unit has seen an increased record of success in applications to a more diverse selection of
 cultural funding streams over this census period, consistent with our Unit’s objective to increase
 public and community engagement with our research. Much of this research focuses on diversity
 and marginalised communities. An example is the Child Criminal Exploitation Arts Project,


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 funded by the Hampshire Police and Crime Commission, the Safer Communities Fund and the
 Active Communities Network (McNamara, 2020; £12,000).

 Our strategic goal to develop our research in under-represented groups resulted in several
 successful funding bids. These include: Burrows’ application to the Berger-Carter-Berger
 Fellowship ($1000) to research choral music by the Black jazz pianist and composer Mary Lou
 Williams, at the Institute for Jazz Studies at Rutgers University; MacDonald’s study in Diversity
 and Disability in American Musical Theatre Casting Practices, funded by the British Association
 of American Studies (2018, £1,100); and Gruner’s work on under-represented women
 screenwriters, funded by the Harry Ransom Fellowship/Robert De Niro Endowed Fund (2020,
 $4000; delayed due to COVID). Though yielding moderately small sums, we have encouraged
 these funding streams to facilitate meaningful research and build our members’ experience and
 confidence in applying for funding.

 Our success with Being Human: A Festival of the Humanities demonstrates our strategy’s
 effectiveness. To give researchers at all levels experience in running these projects, our Unit
 selected different members to lead these bids after Unit-wide meetings convened by research
 leads. This resulted in ‘Port City-Narratives of Migration’ (2015), led by Friedman, and ‘Imagining
 New Worlds’, led by Macpherson (2020), with contributions from other Unit members. To
 increase public engagement and develop our Cinema+ activities (screenings, discussions and
 roundtables with Unit experts), we successfully targeted funds from Film Hub South East. This
 has led to us hosting a series of events and collaborating with our partners No.6 Cinema (an
 independent cinema in Portsmouth) and Portsmouth Film Society. Examples include ‘Conflict
 and Resolution Across Global Cultures’, a joint 2014 project with Being Human led by Shaw
 (2014), and two projects run by Gruner: ‘Political Satire Screenings’ (2015) and ‘Beyond the
 Banana Skin: The Serious Business of Comedy’ (2016). These well-attended public engagement
 events have all included talks by several members of our Unit.

 Technology and innovation represents another strategic area of growth for our Unit. Funded
 examples include Smith’s (M) work, ‘XR Audience Centred Design: The Future of Immersive
 Theatre’, funded by Innovate UK (£11,926); Pearse’s ‘Compose with Sounds’ project (£31,667);
 and Smith’s (J) AHRC funded ‘Fifty Years of British Music Video, 1964 - 2014: Assessing
 innovation, industry, influence and impact’ (£477,090). We aim to continue developing our
 technology and innovation capability with the Centre for Creative and Immersive Extended
 Reality (CCIXR). One project already in progress is the £200,142 UKRI/Innovate UK ‘Audience
 of the Future Demonstrator Project’, led by the Royal Shakespeare Company with primary
 contributions from Hughes and Hull. This project sees a multi-disciplinary team from our Unit
 provide practice and technical research and development (R&D) to create and stage an entirely
 digital presentation of live performances alongside the Royal Shakespeare Company, the
 Philharmonia Orchestra, Manchester International Festival and the Punchdrunk theatre
 company.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2   Infrastructure

 To ensure our work’s ongoing vitality and impact, we have invested in numerous new facilities
 over this census period. For example, in 2016 we completed construction on the new White
 Swan Building for drama, music and performing arts, developed in partnership with Portsmouth’s
 historic New Theatre Royal. The White Swan Building includes a 92-seat theatre with a fully-
 equipped technical gallery, five rehearsal studios, three music practice rooms, stage production
 facilities and a purpose-built television studio. The building provides a creative hub for drama,
 theatre and performance, and is used for teaching, research seminars and projects, supported
 by a production manager and technical support team. We have also invested in screen studies
 and music technology, refurbishing our Eldon Building to include state-of-the-art television and
 motion-capture studios and a cinema for teaching, research and public engagement events. We
 have continued to invest in music technology facilities during the census period, equipping our
 Middle Street studios with industry-standard hardware and software. The Eldon Building also
 houses Portsmouth’s Express FM radio station, which regularly promotes our research and
 research-related public engagement events.

 The funding secured by CCI-XR will feature many new technologies and facilities, including
 photogrammetry, volumetric capture and virtual production technology. We will also create new
 motion-capture facilities, a VR lab, recording studios and a digital-coding space. Our future
 investment in the Centre also includes three new music studios that will incorporate world-class
 equipment, including a Neve Genesis mixing desk and a Dolby Atmos system. These state-of-
 the-art facilities will inform the Unit’s future research strategy, particularly for practice-based
 research in music technology, performance and screen studies.

 3.3   Organisational and operational infrastructure

 Our Faculty has made considerable organisational investments over the census period,
 appointing a Faculty Innovation Director, a Faculty Impact Lead, a Research and Innovation
 Officer, a Research and Innovation Administrator, and a Senior Finance Officer.

 The central Research and Innovation Services’ (RIS) seven University Grants and Development
 Officers assist Unit members with Research Council grant applications. RIS also runs a
 University peer-review college co-ordinating reviews of all UKRI grant applications by
 experienced researchers. Regular reviewers during the census period included Burrows,
 Geraghty, MacDonald, Shaw, and Smith (J). This anonymous review process provides
 applicants with detailed, constructive feedback, ensuring the high quality of all submitted
 applications. The library’s Research Data Officer advises staff on data management plans.

 Our Faculty has also developed a Research & Innovation Hub that publicises funding
 opportunities and provides a library of previously successful bids to support colleagues,
 embracing a mutually supportive, peer-led culture.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4     Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1       Arrangements to support the effectiveness of research collaborations, networks
           and partnerships

 A central aim of our Unit has been to encourage research collaborations, networks and
 partnerships to stimulate and internationalise our research and build on collective strengths. We
 have supported and developed these collaborations through our conference support fund (up to
 £1000 per applicant). Members also have access to an individual staff-development allowance
 of £450 per year to fund travel for networking or to top-up conference funding. We provide
 Readers and Professors with an annual allowance of £1000 to attend conferences and develop
 networks, thereby seed-funding collaborative projects. Members discuss their support needs for
 collaborative events during their annual PDR, facilitating planning processes.

 Examples of the successful collaborations enabled by our support mechanisms include:

           Burrows’ collaboration with Nicholas Gebhardt (Birmingham City University) to secure the
            AHRC network project ‘Musical Theatre and All That Jazz’, which brings together an
            international group of eight academics from different institutions plus performers and
            industry bodies
           Geraghty’s work with Dr Judith Fathallah (Solent University) as Co-Investigator for the
            research network ‘Audience Reception in the Digital Age’
           McNamara’s work as Principal Investigator (PI) for the ‘TransActing’ project, a
            collaboration with Gendered Intelligence and the Outbox Theatre Company, working with
            trans and non-binary people as well as creative and cultural industry professionals in the
            UK, Australia and Brazil
           Pearse’s collaboration with Lee Landy (De Montfort University) as Co-Investigator and
            developer of the EU Creative Culture project ‘Interfaces’, which works with academics
            and schools across Europe to create new audio tools for teaching electronic music
           Shaw’s collaboration with researchers at the Carlos III University in Madrid as a project
            team member on two Spanish government-funded research projects. These investigate
            cinematic mobility in the Hispanic Atlantic and cinematic transnational relations between
            Spain, Mexico and Argentina.
 4.2       Staff engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences

 We have encouraged and supported many of our members in cultivating relationships with key
 research users to optimise our research impact. We have achieved this through additional
 research-time allocation and a Research Innovation Impact Acceleration Fund that supports
 project expenses (including travel, accommodation, subsistence, room hire and technical
 support). For example, we have supported Hughes’ impactful work with military veterans for her
 practice-research Veterans Project. She has forged collaborations with the National Museum of
 the Royal Navy, Portsmouth Historic Dockyard, RAF veterans and the FirstLight Trust, a military
 wellness charity. Hughes and Smith have forged impactful collaborations with the Mukuru Arts

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Centre in Nairobi for their Action against COVID Transmission (ACT) project, as discussed.
 Smith (M) led our Unit’s collaboration with Portsmouth Festivities (June 2018), and Journeys
 Festival International in Portsmouth with ‘Puppet City’, a practice-research project about migrant
 experiences of urban space (October 2018). Smith has also collaborated with the Portsmouth-
 based arts company The Makers Guild, and local prisons, hospitals and schools with his applied
 puppetry work.

 Burrows and Jagger have worked with various professional and amateur musical ensembles
 who have benefited from their research projects. Burrows has worked with the Coldstream
 Guards’ jazz orchestra on a performance based on his research into Fats Waller’s London Suite.
 He also led a consortium of Portsmouth community groups (Portsmouth Cathedral Choir, the
 Solent Symphony Orchestra, St Mary’s Choir [Portsea parish], and the Portsmouth Grammar
 School Choir) in a recreated performance of Handel’s Messiah from 1812 that explored diva
 performance practices. Jagger led performances of Yeomen of the Guard in the UK and America
 based on his critical edition of the operetta. They led to wide-scale media coverage, including an
 interview on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. These research-informed performances have
 enriched their audience experiences and their organisers’ repertoires.

 4.3   How the Unit engages with diverse audiences and communities through its research

 A primary ambition for our Unit, in line with University strategy (ILES, objective 2, p.3), has been
 to ensure our research reaches beyond academia to inform and enrich the communities we
 collaborate with. In addition to the drama and performance work already outlined, we identified
 opportunities to collaborate with prominent cultural events in Portsmouth. For instance, Geraghty
 acted as a consultant for Portsmouth Comic Con, working closely with Portsmouth’s Guildhall
 Trust to organise a series of well-attended panels run by staff and students from the fields of
 screen studies, film and media. Other events, including Dark Fest, Portsmouth Festivities, public
 film screenings and introductions, were outlined in previous sections.

 Besides the diverse communities and audiences our Unit has engaged through the above
 events, we have also run two public cultural festivals. In 2014, we organised a well-attended
 week-long series of public events on Conflict and Resolution Across Global Cultures, resulting
 from collaboration with the Museum of London’s Suffragette’s Collection, leading artists and
 filmmakers, Portsmouth Film Society, and Film Hub South East (PI Shaw). We were also
 primary contributors to the Being Human Portsmouth events in 2015 – ‘Port City: Narratives of
 Migration’ – in collaboration with colleagues from History, Creative Writing, and Film Production
 (PI Friedman). External partners included Art Space Portsmouth, Star & Crescent (a community
 news website), Spice Island (a historical Portsmouth pub), and All About Tea (a Portsmouth-
 based tea-production company).

 The Research and Innovation Fund invested in Sergeant’s Fantasy-Animation.org (which
 includes activities, a blog and a podcast), co-run with Holliday from King’s College London, as
 part of our goal to reach communities and audiences beyond academia with our research. In
 collaboration with London’s well-established Cinema Museum, they hosted screenings and
 discussions. Fantasy-Animation.org recently featured on the popular fan website Film Stories’

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 British movie podcast of the week. The podcasts feature leading scholars and industry figures as
 invited guests, and other initiatives have included an ‘Anti-Racist Animation Syllabus’.

 The University and our Unit have encouraged members to disseminate their work to a broader
 public through articles in The Conversation, an independent news-and-views online publisher
 with articles written by academics and researchers, (ILES, objective 4, 28, p.5). To this end, we
 have hosted explanatory talks by editors of The Conversation and the University’s Head of
 Media and Communications. As a result, several members of our Unit have authored articles in
 The Conversation (Burrows, Geraghty, Hughes, McNamara, MacDonald, Sergeant and Shaw).
 We have authored 29 articles, widely republished in other respected news outlets.

 Other examples of public-engagement publishing include For the Record (the City of London
 Phonograph and Gramophone Society’s journal) by Burrows, and Mediático (a Hispanic film blog
 published by the University of Sussex) by Shaw. In addition, our Unit has established and written
 for an open-access blog, Popular Culture.

 We encourage our Unit staff to disseminate their research widely, supported by the University
 press office’s talks on how best to engage with the media. Examples of staff whose research has
 informed media stories include Shaw, who made a significant contribution to public
 understanding of the global nature and significance of Alfonso Cuarón, Guillermo del Toro and
 Alejandro González Iñárritu’s filmmaking through a series of interviews following her monograph
 on them. News outlets included The Economist, The New York Times, BBC Mundo, CNN Chile,
 the Japanese national newspaper Mainichi, and Efecto Naím – a Spanish-language TV global
 broadcast. In addition, Jagger was interviewed twice on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme (2015
 and 2016) about the first UK production of Rodgers & Hammerstein's Allegro performed with a
 full orchestra and his OUP critical edition of Gilbert and Sullivan's The Yeomen of the Guard.
 Hughes featured in a number of media outlets resulting from her research on how COVID has
 affected handshakes and physical contact. These included an interview for BBC Future in April
 2020 and The Jeremy Vine Show on BBC Radio 2 in October 2020.

 4.4   Evidence of our Unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 Our PDR and mentoring process encourages Unit staff to take on leadership roles serving their
 discipline, and we recognise these activities through workload allowance. The founding of the
 British Musical Theatre Research Institute, a cross-institutional network for researchers (Burrows
 and Macpherson are co-founders), is an example of Unit members’ activities that support and
 sustain our discipline nationally and internationally.

 Our Unit members are also actively involved with their subjects’ professional associations.
 Macpherson is co-convenor for the Sound, Voice and Music Working Group and the Theatre and
 Performance Research Association (TaPRA). Smith, M. is co-convener of the TaPRA working
 group in applied and social theatre. Geraghty co-organised the Fan Network Conference in 2019
 at the University of Portsmouth. Shaw was cofounder (with Prof Dudrah of Birmingham City
 University) of the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) Special
 Interest Group – Transnational Film and Television – a role taken over by Friedman and

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Ghorbankarimi (Leicester University) in 2020. Shaw has also been an Academic member of the
 AHRC Peer Review College since 2010.

 4.5   Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Our Unit staff have received recognition for the quality of their research. In 2020, Burrows won
 the prestigious 'Best Discography' award from the Association for Recorded Sound Collections
 for his monograph 'The Recordings of Andy Kirk and His Clouds of Joy' in the 2020 Association
 for Recorded Sound Collections Awards for Excellence in Recorded Sound Research.
 Sergeant’s co-edited book Fantasy Animation was runner up for the BAFTSS award for best-
 edited collection in 2019.

 Members of our Unit have conceived and developed academic journals that have played a
 significant role in shaping our respective fields, providing opportunity and focus for new research
 output. Burrows is co-founding managing editor of Studies in Musical Theatre (Intellect), the only
 journal dedicated to Musical Theatre. Macpherson is co-founder and managing editor of the
 Journal of Interdisciplinary Voice Studies (Intellect). Shaw is co-founding managing editor of
 Transnational Cinemas (Routledge), recently renamed Transnational Screens. Geraghty is
 senior editor of Cogent Arts & Humanities, and Friedman is the reviews editor for Transnational
 Screens.

 Staff in our Unit are also editorial board members of journals and book series. Select examples
 include Applied Theatre Research (Smith, M); Frontiers in Communication, and Celebrity
 Studies (Harper); Transformative Works and Cultures, Journal of Popular Television, Journal of
 Fandom Studies, The Journal of Popular Culture, Reconstruction: Studies in Contemporary
 Culture (Geraghty); Chasqui Revista de Literatura Latinoamericana, and advisory board member
 of Routledge’s book series: Remapping World Cinema: Regional Tensions and Global
 Transformations (Shaw).

 Unit members regularly review articles for publication. Examples include peer-reviews for:
 Alphaville The Bulletin of Hispanic Studies; Journal of Intercultural Studies; Critical Studies in
 Television; Celebrity Studies; Jewish Film and New Media; Journal of British Film and
 Television; The Journal of Popular Television; Journal of Jazz Studies; Journal of Theatre,
 Dance and Performance Training; New Cinemas; Research in Drama Education; Studies in
 Hispanic Cinemas; Studies in Musical Theatre; Journal for the Study of Race, Nation and
 Culture; Transnational Screens; Cinema Journal; Studies in Musical Theatre; Studies in Theatre
 and Performance; RiDE: The Journal of Applied Theatre and Performance. Staff in the Unit have
 reviewed book proposals for international publishers, including Routledge, Berg, Edinburgh
 University Press, Intellect, Oxford University Press, Palgrave/BFI Publishing, Lexington Books,
 University of Iowa Press and Bloomsbury.

 Members of our Unit have been invited to present their research nationally and internationally.
 These include presentations by Gruner (the University of Warwick), Friedman (the University of
 Essex, the University of Cambridge and SOAS), Harper (the University of Winchester),
 McNamara (the Royal Central School of Speech & Drama), Macpherson (the University of

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Essex, the University of Sheffield), and Sergeant (the University of Wolverhampton, the London
 Institute of Psychoanalysis, the University of Notre Dame, and the British Film Institute).

 Invitations to deliver keynote lectures also demonstrate recognition of our staff’s contribution to
 national and international research communities. Two examples of Geraghty’s international
 keynotes include ‘“A dream that became a reality and spread throughout the stars”: History,
 Myth and American Culture in Star Trek’, delivered at ‘A Celebration of Star Trek’ Pop Culture
 Conference at DePaul University, Chicago, and ‘Passing Through: Identity, History and the
 Importance of Pilgrimage in Fan Studies’, delivered at the Fan Studies Network Conference at
 the University of East Anglia. Shaw has delivered keynotes at Universities in Birmingham,
 London, Portland, Vienna, and Maynooth. For instance, she delivered keynotes on Latin
 American Women’s filmmaking for the Latin American Women’s Filmmaking Conference at the
 Institute for Latin American Studies (2017), and the Cine-Lit conference at the University of
 Oregon (2019). Hull was invited by the British Council to deliver a series of keynote lectures at
 the Moscow Music School, the Ural State University in Ekaterinburg, and the State Philharmonic
 in St Petersburg on Music Composition in the 21st Century.




                                                                                            Page 18
