Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA34 - Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 The research activities and development of the 39 staff (33.2 fte) entered in UoA34 are supported
 by the Communication and Computing Research Centre (CCRC), located (until December 2019)
 in the Cultural, Communication and Computing Research Institute (C3RI) and (from Spring 2020)
 in the Culture and Creativity Research Institute (CCRI). CCRC comprises an important intellectual
 hub for researchers that are chiefly drawn from the University's Department of Media, Arts &
 Communication (MAC) and Centre of Excellence in Terrorism, Resilience, Intelligence and
 Organised Crime Research (CENTRIC). Additionally, colleagues from the departments of
 Humanities; Social Work, Social Care & Community Studies; Psychology, Sociology & Politics;
 Law & Criminology; Management; and Computing also contribute to the centre. Thus, CCRC
 constitutes a stimulating interdisciplinary environment for collaborative, applied research
 and cutting-edge knowledge exchange (KE) that makes a difference to individuals and
 communities.

 The diversity of our research agenda is reflected in our five overarching themes, which
 encapsulate the range of our activities, outputs and impact case studies:

    •   Interactive Technologies
    •   Technologies of Policing, Safety & Security
    •   Media Production & Professional Practices
    •   Culture, Heritage, Conflict & Identity
    •   Theorising Film, Media and Television

 Across recent years, we have witnessed a growth of research in some emergent areas of
 intellectual inquiry. Resultingly, the outputs of some longstanding CCRC staff have become the
 bedrock of new submissions in UoAs 11 and 20. In response to these exciting developments,
 alongside continued growth in the core areas of CCRC research, and the university-wide
 realignment of research under four new Research Institutes, we have recently completed a careful
 restructuring of the originating CCRC. At the time of writing, we have just launched a new Centre
 for Culture, Media and Society (CCMS). This new centre, designed to strengthen and consolidate
 relations between colleagues in cultural, communication and media studies, and in the cognate
 social sciences, will replace CCRC. In parallel, many staff in Computing and Informatics have re-
 located into a correspondingly new centre, customised to support their increasingly distinctive
 research orientation. Our focus in this statement is to communicate the work of CCRC during the
 census period. Where appropriate we aim to also demonstrate how CCRC achievements
 throughout the census period will feed forward.


 Research Strategy Review

 The objectives set out in our REF 2014 submission have been achieved via targeted internal
 investment, comprehensive researcher support and development initiatives, and the creation of
 strategic posts including an Impact Champion. As a result, we have grown research capacity
 and quality, enabling us to increase our UoA34 submission from 25 (24.8 FTE) in 2014 to
 39 (33.2 FTE), exceeding our stated target of 35. The creation of the University Academic
 Careers Framework (ACF) has enabled CCRC to develop our lead researchers through a
 combination of CCRC mentoring and support, and structured career pathways provided by the
 ACF. As a result, we have four new Professorships (Ciolfi and Ramamurthy in Unit 34, and
 Dearden and Di Nuovo in UoA11) and nine new Readerships (Cere, Clarke, Deller, Hall, Louis
 and Kilby in UoA34, and Habgood, Polovina and Shenfield in UoA11). The enhanced stature and

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 quality of our outputs is manifest in the significant increase in monographs and books (a total
 of twenty, compared to only one in REF 2014). A near doubling of research income during the
 census period is another major indicator of our success. The total of £8,435,178.60 compares
 with the £4,278,686.00 in the previous period.

 Our significant growth in research income has gone together with successful external collaboration
 and tangible evidence of impact. The CENTRIC team is now recognised for its world-leading
 research and design in security, counterterrorism, crisis management, migration and
 humanitarian aid. To give one example, its ATHENA project (EUFP7 313220) includes the
 following partners: Police and Crime Commissioner for West Yorkshire, International Organization
 for Migration, Fraunhofer, SAS Software, Municipality of Ljubljana, Thales, University of Virginia,
 Swedish Defence University, EPAM Systems, Izmir Fire Brigade, Research in Motion and
 Epidemico. This project informed an impact case study [ICS2]. Practically all projects in the
 CENTRIC portfolio involve multiple partnerships with law enforcement agencies, industrial and
 commercial enterprises, and humanitarian agencies such as the United Nations' Institute of
 Migration, as well as HE institutions in the UK and internationally.

 Similar strides have been made by the Impact Virtual Reality (VR) team, led by Phelan. Following
 significant internal investment (see Income Strategy), they have secured a diversity of major
 grants to develop Virtual Reality environments for prosthetic limb training, pain distraction and
 social anxiety in teenagers, in partnership with health professionals and the third sector. Phelan’s
 work features as another impact case study within the unit [ICS3].

 It is symbolic of their growing national and international renown that CENTRIC and Impact
 VR were selected to showcase their work during the Duke of Sussex's visit to Hallam in
 2019.

 Notable progress has also been achieved by colleagues researching in the areas of popular
 culture, cultural heritage and digital media. Achievements include Ciolfi’s work on interactive digital
 technology in museums (SHU award £277,461) and Ramamurthy’s study of documentaries by
 Palestinian filmmakers (SHU award £178,899).

 Finally, CCRC provides an exceptional, interdisciplinary environment for PhD students, offering
 opportunities to engage with external research environments in partnership with all sectors
 (including commercial organisations, arts and heritage bodies, and government at all levels). Our
 doctoral community returned the highest levels of student satisfaction in the UK in the
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey in 2017, reflecting particularly high scores for
 satisfaction with research culture and research environment.


 Interdisciplinary Research

 The Unit's strategy of supporting interdisciplinary research involves investment in local research
 clusters convened around substantive themes. One prominent example is the Centre for
 Contemporary Legend group (led by Clarke and Rogers), established with the aim of building a
 wider community of scholars in media, film and communication to explore contemporary myths
 and folkloric practices. A second example is the Transnational Popular Culture as a Catalyst for
 Social Change cluster, instigated more recently by Louis. Finally, Hall is founding Chair of the
 Film, Television, Theatre and Performance Research Network at SHU, which brings together
 researchers in these fields from across the University.

 Our research is organised under five primary themes:

 Interactive Technologies
 Research within this theme is diverse, spanning media, health, education and technology
 applications. It includes Phelan’s innovative applied health research, developing therapeutic virtual
 reality to help manage pain in upper limbs [ICS3]. It also includes a body of more critical

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 explorations of contemporary society, such as Bayerl’s research on the use of group-based
 technologies by production teams in the British oil and gas industry, Ciolfi’s examination of the
 employment conditions associated with contemporary ‘mobile knowledge work’, and Zhang’s
 study of ‘vlogging’ practices. In other work, Lockley examines the significance and implications of
 data-literacy as it pertains to distribution of dis-/mis-/mal-information (e.g. ‘fake-news’) via digital
 media.

 Technologies of Policing, Safety & Security
 Much of our work in this area occupies the intersection of intellectual concerns with social conflict,
 crime, social crisis and emergency, and the ways in which they are understood, prepared for and
 responded to. Research includes Akghar's retrospective analysis of citizens’ use of twitter during
 the 2011 UK riots, and Waddington's examination of the use of social media by participants and
 police in his international comparison of recent riots. Similar in nature are Bayerl's study of online
 activism and discourses of police injustice, and Rodriguez-Amat's model of protest mobilisation
 and crowd-mapping. Elsewhere, Day outlines a social media-based system for co-ordinating
 emergency service responses in a large crisis, Bayerl explores the role of ICT innovations within
 US defence and intelligence agencies, and McSeveny discusses best practice in crisis
 communication. Finally, Adam employs a critical historical perspective in her analysis of forensic
 science.

 Media Production and Professional Practices
 Fundamental to this theme are analyses of the nature and impact of professional practices of
 communication. This includes O’Toole’s book on the impact of sustained large-scale austerity cuts
 on local UK government communications, Canter’s analysis of press reporting for the private and
 public lives of footballers, Kilby’s research on the social construction of terrorism in UK talk-radio
 and newsprint media, and Price’s work on media corruption and journalistic integrity in post-
 communist countries. Lastly, a more exploratory orientation is evident in Clarke’s work on UFOs
 and paranormal phenomena, in which he presents the results of a long-running project to open up
 and analyse the files of the National Archives.

 Theorising Film, Media & Television
 This theme coheres our varying interests in the relationship between film, media, television and
 society. Deller’s book on reality television explores wide-ranging theories and debates in the area,
 whilst Bassi examines the emergence of subculture from a Chinese reality TV show. Elsewhere,
 Darder compares the of perception of TV characters’ personality traits in English, Spanish and
 Catalan, and Louis researches the role of television dramas in shaping national identity in Spain.
 The study of horror also features prominently in this (Giusti’s work on Italian horror films, Rodgers'
 discussion of 1970s British television horror revivalism, Mann’s monograph on twentieth-century
 werewolf films, and Hall's critical reappraisal of Jaws). More specific in their emphases are: Hall's
 archival study of the ‘film completion guarantor’, Film Finances, and of Sheffield's Gaumont
 Theatre; Speidel's research on children’s cinema, the screenplays of Maurice, and radio
 anthologies of Hollywood movies; Shin's analysis of Park Chan-Wook’s direction of the South
 Korean The Handmaiden; and Fenwick's overviews of the production work of Stanley Kubrick.

 Culture, Heritage, Conflict & Identity
 Our work here variously considers the role of identity in shaping, and being shaped by, wider
 society. Explorations of culture and identity are salient in the outputs of Abulhawa (on
 skateboarding, gender and urban spaces), Deller (online musical fandoms), Doherty (a music-
 consumption community), and Green (dreams, tattooing and spiritual beliefs in Indonesia). Hurley
 provides the first comprehensive account of NATO’s long-established engagement with gender
 issues. A cultural resonance underscores the book by Wigelsworth (nineteenth-century French
 crime fiction), while Cere’s international study of film museums and Waddington's contrasting of
 the lives of nineteenth-century ‘pit-folk’ and local aristocracy place emphases on heritage.
 Interlocking references to notions of culture, postcolonial identity, repression, resistance and
 human rights infuse the outputs submitted by Murphy (human slavery), Raghavan (race, ethnicity,
 sexuality, gender and colonial difference) and Ramamurthy (Palestinian film). A more overt focus
 on conflict pervades the works of Southern (on the policing of ‘terrorism’ in Northern Ireland) and

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Jeffery's various studies of tensions related to class, inequality and post-industrial change in the
 City of Salford, including the policing of a local riot.


 Impact Strategy

 Our impact strategy aligns with the University's Transforming Lives strategy, committing us to
 making positive contributions to the cultural, economic, social and health challenges facing
 society. To enable us to grow our capacity for impact within CCRC we made the following strategic
 investments:

    •   Channelled Higher Education Investment Fund funding towards the salary of an Institute-
        wide Knowledge Transfer Champion.
    •   Secured EU regional development funding (£141k) as part of the Innovation Futures 2
        (IF2) initiative.
    •   Created an ‘Impact Fellowship’.

 These investments enabled us to prioritise support for projects with high impact potential, including
 support for our impact case studies (discussed below). A distinctive accomplishment of our Impact
 Fellow was the establishment of our Impact Blog, which keeps internal and external audiences
 well informed of the latest research developments. Such publicity is achieved in conjunction with
 the central press office.

 Our three impact case studies provide significant evidence of the success of our impact strategy:

    ICS1 CENTRIC has built technical capability and capacity in law enforcement leading to a
    range of outcomes which include: (i) Improved access to digital intelligence for police forces
    across the UK leading to successful outcomes in over 20 law enforcement operations; (ii)
    Developing cybercrime training that, to date, has been rolled out to over 300 Law Enforcement
    Agency officers worldwide to counter major criminal and societal threats; and (iii) Supporting
    the United Nations International Organization for Migration (UN-IOM) in countering the digital
    spread of misinformation during Covid-19 that was impeding pandemic response and stirring
    unrest.

    ICS2 CENTRIC has also led the development of the Security Communications and Analysis
    Network (SCAAN), which provides a ‘touch of a button’ security lifeline for frontline staff at risk
    of kidnapping, violence, bombing and natural disasters. It has been deployed by 5 UN agencies
    for staff around the globe. Over 13,000 UN-IOM staff operating in 153 different countries use
    SCAAN. Its use was also implemented by WHO as part of their Ebola response.

    ICS 3 The Impact VR team have developed immersive, interactive Virtual Reality (VR)
    rehabilitation systems for patients with neurological and musculoskeletal conditions,
    orthopaedic trauma, and chronic pain. The impact of this work is fourfold: (i) physically and/or
    psychologically enhancing patients health and wellbeing; (ii) improving practitioner services;
    (iii) increasing public understanding of technology; and (iv) establishing collaborations that lead
    to practical and financial benefit to the NHS.

 Major impact is clearly discernible in our more established areas of work on security and
 humanitarian issues (CENTRIC) and medical and healthcare provision (the Impact VR team), but
 our strategy has also ensured support for developing impact across all areas of work. Thus impact
 is equally visible in more recent projects which have yielded digital innovations in cultural heritage
 (Ciolfi) and provided archival resources to promote public engagement and understanding (Clarke,
 Hall), led to the recalibration of wages for the low-paid (Jeffery), highlighted 'digital exclusion'
 among the elderly of Sheffield (Lockley), and fostered enhanced public awareness and
 appreciation of Asian and Palestinian cinema (Shin and Ramamurthy respectively).



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Integrity

 All research activity is subject to strict ethical scrutiny via the University ethics procedures and is
 compliant with the University commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Each
 Research Institute has an ethics lead (Deller is lead for CCRI). The ethics lead provides guidance
 and cascades university-wide information. Many of our staff also contribute as research ethics
 reviewers, thereby supporting wider processes and maintaining their own familiarity with current
 ethics requirements.

 It is mandatory for all staff to have ethical approval in place prior to commencing any research.
 Staff submit full details of their proposed research via an online system, where it is peer reviewed
 by three appropriately trained colleagues. Where work involves human subjects, researchers are
 asked to provide consent forms, participation information forms and details of how participants’
 information and data will be handled. Where working with materials and artefacts, they are to give
 information relating to copyright. Researchers are also strongly encouraged to submit a detailed
 data management plan for all projects. Work conducted with the NHS or other partner
 organisations requiring their own ethical review process are still subject to SHU approval
 processes.

 Once underway, all funded projects are systematically tracked by the Institute's Project Monitoring
 Group. This provides an opportunity for the project leads to highlight any problems they may be
 encountering and to seek the support and advice of the wider research community.


 Open Research

 Researchers within this Unit subscribe to the principle that research data is a valuable asset and
 support the principles set out in the Concordat on Open Research Data, which recognises that
 research data should, wherever possible, be made openly available for use by others in a manner
 consistent with relevant legal, ethical, disciplinary and regulatory frameworks and norms. Central
 funds are available for any fees involved in making published work open to all.

 Staff are encouraged to apply for university funding to support gold open-access
 publication of research where appropriate, and guidance is provided to promote informed
 choices regarding appropriate open access journals.

 All staff are systematically reminded to upload their publications to the internal Elements system
 which ensures that all research is made externally accessible via Sheffield Hallam University’s
 Research Archive (SHURA) and Research Data Archive (SHURDA) as the principal means of
 storing and sharing publications. Staff are also encouraged to utilise Researchgate, Academia.edu
 and other academic networking sites to share pre-print publications, and to obtain an ORCID and
 familiarise themselves with the UK’s Data Service.

 Successful funding bids are shared through the research institute website to disseminate best
 practice, increase bidding success and encourage a culture of transparency. These ambitions,
 alongside a commitment to sharing our research findings with the wider general public,
 underpinned CCRC championing of the aforementioned Impact Blog, which has been a key
 feature of our external communications for over four years. Additional indicators of our strong
 commitment to disseminating research are listed in the final section of this statement.


 Future Strategy

 Under the university-wide research restructure and the creation of the four new Research
 Institutes, Computing researchers were incorporated into the newly formed Industry and
 Innovation Research Institute in Spring 2020. Following further careful review of the activities of
 CCRC, researchers in communication, cultural and media studies, and those in cognate social

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sciences, have recently transitioned to sit within the newly created Centre for Culture, Media and
 Society (CCMS). To ensure establishment and growth of CCMS, the University is committing
 £250,000 per annum. CCMS will retain responsibility for UoA34, and it will sit alongside the Art,
 Design and Media Research Centre (ADMRC) and Humanities Research Centre (HRC) in the new
 Culture and Creativity Research Institute. In recognition of its expansion and success,
 CENTRIC has been designated as a University Strategic Research Centre with its own
 governance.

 CCMS is currently developing its five-year strategy to build on the legacy of CCRC and establish
 itself as a centre for research excellence and knowledge exchange with impact. Key objectives
 are:

    1. Invest in innovative initiatives and proposals with potential to build capacity for high quality.
       We aim to submit 45 staff to UoA34 in a future submission (15% increase)
    2. Invest in researcher career development of established researchers, leading to growth in
       Professors and Readers within CCMS.
    3. Targeted support for ECR development and increased ECR contribution in a future UoA34
       submission. We aim for ECR outputs to account for 20% of our overall future submission.
    4. Develop Impact VR, making it a research and KE leader in Child Health Technology.
    5. Maintain strong research links with CENTRIC and ensure their research remains integral
       UoA34, while establishing greater collaboration with other SHU Strategic Research
       Centres, such as the Centre for Regional, Economic and Social Research (CRESR).
    6. Foster greater collaboration with external academic and regional KE partners, to secure
       increased KE income.
    7. Continue to provide an inclusive environment that enriches the learning experience of
       doctoral students.

 In order to develop and operationalise the strategy that will enable CCMS to achieve these
 objectives, a newly formed steering committee will work under the leadership of the new Centre
 Head (Kilby).


 2. People

 Career Development and Early Career Researchers

 Our strategy is to build an inclusive and collaborative research environment providing the requisite
 support and structures for researchers from different disciplinary and methodological specialisms,
 who are at different stages of their careers, as defined in the SHU Academic Careers Framework
 (ACF) and Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF).

 It has three central objectives:

    •   To support research-active staff to grow according to indicators such as high-quality
        outputs, external research income, research impact and career progression.
    •   To support Early Career Researchers by fostering a culture of research excellence and
        providing resources, training and mentorship needed to become autonomous researchers.
    •   To support staff who wish to engage (or re-engage) with research in addition to
        professional practice.

 These objectives are aligned with wider university objectives for researcher development and
 underpinned by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

 The ACF sets out indicators of achievement in academic citizenship and leadership, research and
 innovation, teaching and learning, and external engagement. It offers a framework for career
 conversations at the annual Performance and Development Review (PDR). The PDR gives all
 researchers the opportunity to review and set new research objectives, in line with the

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unit's research and impact strategy and their own career development plan. Readers and
 Professors are appraised by either the Head of Centre or their Department's Research Lead.

 New academics receive a research induction and are invited to discuss their research plans
 with the Head of Centre. The University-wide Early Career Researcher Network, launched in
 2018, is useful in promoting collaboration and offers training opportunities. Unit researchers are
 signposted to developmental activities offered by the Sheffield Hallam Researcher Development
 (SHaRD) programme and the Library Research Support Team. These programmes offer training
 on topics such as leadership and management skills; research intelligence; grant writing; getting
 published; open access, research integrity and ethics; and commercialisation and IP. CCRC also
 hosts a fortnightly research seminar series (open to all university staff and students), offering talks
 from invited external speakers, UoA34 researchers and doctoral students.

 All researchers are assigned a research mentor by the Head of Centre or a Department
 Research Lead, matched according to self-identified objectives (e.g. requiring early career
 guidance, seeking promotion, researching with external partners) and taking account of gender
 preferences. Prior training enables mentors and mentees to fully benefit from the mentoring
 experience.

 Our commitment to support for career development is evident in the progression of many staff in
 UoA34. For example, Day was recruited as a research fellow and progressed to senior research
 fellow during the REF period, and was recently promoted to principal research fellow; and Phelan
 who initially joined us as a research fellow, through his success in leading Impact VR, was
 promoted to senior research fellow in January 2020 and is being supported to pursue his ambition
 for continued career progression.


 Staffing Strategy

 Research capacity is increased via strategic recruitment of doctoral-level, research-active staff, in
 partnership with Heads of Department. Proven research activity is a key selection criterion at
 shortlisting, and the Head of Centre serves as a recruitment panel member and Chair. This
 strategy has been successful in recruiting staff into targeted research areas, e.g. Price (Journalism
 Studies), Fenwick (Media and Film Industries), Mann (Horror Film and Popular Culture),
 McSeveny (Digital Culture and Identity) and Zhang (Digital Media). The UoA34 Co-ordinator and
 head of CCRC (Waddington) is approaching retirement and a phased retirement and succession
 plan was activated, including the promotion of Kilby to become Head of the new CCMS. Eight staff
 entered in UoA36 in REF 2014 (Cere, Clarke, Deller, Habgood, Hall, Kilby, Polovina, Shenfield)
 have been supported to achieve promotion to the post of Reader, along with the similar promotions
 of Louis (Reader) and Canter, Shin and Speidel (Principal Lectureships).

 The Unit has a strong commitment to the retention and promotion of junior staff. Careful mentoring
 and sensitivity to career aspirations has resulted in the progression of Research Assistants and
 Fellows into senior lectureships (e.g. McSeveny, Guisti and Dardar Estevez). We are able to
 retain the specialist research skills of short-term contract Research Assistants (e.g. 3D artists in
 the Impact VR team) by offering teaching opportunities to bridge the gap between funded projects.


 Research Leave

 Prior to 2018/19, the CCRC Steering Committee reviewed annual research plans and agreed
 research time allocations for highly active researchers, over and above the standard allocation
 otherwise accrued from funded projects and the universal SHU Research and Scholarly Activity
 (RSA) time allocation of 10.8% of the total FTE contract. The CCRC committee typically awarded
 allocations of between 10-20% FTE, based on transparent criteria related to CCRC’s strategic
 objectives. New CCRC-affiliated recruits were automatically allocated an initial 10% research time
 to support them in establishing their research in the Centre.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Upon implementation of the SHU REF Code of Practice (Summer 2019), the Unit aligned with the
 University wide process. In practice, this involved little change for staff in the Centre, as the
 process largely mirrors the CCRC process above. However, it is now integrated more clearly into
 the annual cycle of work planning cycle and Performance Development Review led by the
 academic departments. This further benefits staff, ensuring that research objectives can be
 directly related to wider PDR objectives and embedded in workplans in a timely manner. Staff
 developing their research activity can be allocated ‘academic development’ time.

 The Head of CCRC used a discretionary budget to allocate additional time to strategically
 significant research activities, including the development of major research projects with significant
 impact potential, the development of broader skills for impact across the staff group, and to support
 impact for doctoral students (see our IMPACT conference, below). Additional time is also targeted
 towards researchers to support the completion of monographs (e.g. Deller, O'Toole, Waddington).


 Recognition and Reward

 Applications for progression to Reader/Associate Professor and Professor are assessed against
 SHU’s ACF criteria. The awarding of Professorships at Hallam is managed by a diverse
 professoriate (by gender and ethnicity) and, in addition to receiving local mentoring, female staff
 have automatic access to the Aurora scheme, administered by AdvanceHE, and the internal
 Aspire scheme, developed by Hallam's Women Professors' Group, with a view to redressing the
 gender imbalance in senior roles.

 These structures have been beneficial in the cases of Ciolfi and Ramamurthy: having each been
 recruited on the strength of impressive research credentials from external institutions, both
 individuals first progressed to Readerships, and more recently Professorships. Similarly, Kilby was
 entered as an ECR in REF 2014, having joined the Psychology Department (and CCRC) on
 completion of a doctorate at Lincoln University. Due to a combination of her ECR status and
 distinct subject specialism, Kilby was invited onto the CCRC Steering Committee and the REF
 Reading Group. She has progressed through the roles of Principal Lecturer, Reader, and Unit of
 Assessment Co-ordinator for UoA4, before succeeding to the forthcoming role of Head of CCMS.


 Research Students

 In 2017, UoA34 at SHU achieved sector-leading student satisfaction scores in the national
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) with high scores for satisfaction with
 supervision, resources, research culture, understanding of progress & attainment, rights &
 responsibilities, and opportunities for professional development. In 2019, 94% of students
 expressed overall satisfaction with their experience on the programme, compared with a
 sector average of 81%.

 Responsibility for student recruitment, training, supervision, progression and support is managed
 by the Cultural and Creativity Research Institute (formally by C3RI). The Head of Research
 Degrees (HoRD) leads a team of three Postgraduate Research Tutors (PGRTs), working in
 partnership with Professional Services staff in the central Doctoral School. UoA34 has a dedicated
 PGRT who is also assigned to the academic Department of Media, Arts and Communication.

 Training and Supervision

 Our themed ‘METHOD’ conference provides a platform for discussions focussing on
 research process, practice, decisions and ethical challenges, while the ‘IMPACT’ themed
 conference explores questions of research contribution, application, audience, value and
 impact. Aside from allowing doctoral students and ECRs to discuss work and develop a cross-


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disciplinary culture, these conferences foster engagement with wider debates in the HE sector
 and help students to rehearse arguments pertaining to a thesis defence.

 Formal training, as indicated by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF), is co-
 ordinated by the central Doctoral School, whilst discipline-specific and training across disciplines
 is co-ordinated by the C3RI/CCRI PGR team. Specific methods training (e.g. research interviewing
 or ethnography) can be accessed by enrolling on Level 7 Masters in Social Science Research
 Methods Modules.

 Our institute is a partner in the AHRC Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) for Heritage.
 Students in this partnership receive cohort-based training via a PG Cert. in Heritage Studies and
 can do a placement with a non-HEI partner (e.g. the British Transport Museum and the National
 Trust). C3RI hosted the 2018 Heritage Consortium Conference, bringing together student and
 academic presenters from across the consortium and showcasing Heritage research at SHU.
 Membership of the Heritage Consortium has been significant for the Unit in helping build an
 interdisciplinary network of academics and non-HEI partners in heritage industries.

 Recruitment

 Policies and protocols are in place to ensure that admissions decisions are fair, consistent and
 reliable. PGRTs have overall responsibility for ensuring that applicants are appropriately qualified
 and ready to commence study at level 8. All PhD applicants meeting minimum requirements are
 interviewed by a PGRT and prospective Director of Studies. Studentship recruitment involves an
 additional case for support stage. Applicants receive preliminary advice on their proposal from a
 PGRT and/or prospective supervisor. Unsuccessful applicants receive constructive feedback to
 support any subsequent applications.

 Studentships

 The Unit's strategy is to enhance the quality and numbers of research students by strengthening
 recruitment to UKRI- and SHU-funded PhD studentships. UoA34 hosted two studentships as
 partners in the AHRC Heritage Consortium (supervised by Ciolfi, Doherty) and provides
 supervision to other students in the consortium (Waddington, Clarke). University investment in
 PhD studentships has also enabled the Unit to recruit Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA)
 studentships. This scheme places highly motivated junior researchers (and a visible ECR
 presence) into academic departments. All studentships are advertised for part-time study.

 Progression and Support

 PhD registration is formally completed at the Application for Approval of Research Programme
 stage (3 months FT/6 months PT). A researcher independent of the supervisory team reviews the
 quality and viability of the project. Academic progress is formally assessed at Application for
 Confirmation of PhD stage (15 months FT/ 27 months PT). Candidates submit a 6000-word report,
 outlining research aims, the context for the work, methodological framework, initial
 findings/conclusions and potential contribution to knowledge. Candidates in C3RI also defend their
 emerging thesis at a Research Institute Symposium, before submission of their report. Information
 on progression is recorded by Research Institute PGR teams to monitor performance and identify
 student needs.

 The HoRD employs evidence-based approaches to define excellence and lead change, including
 data from SHU's Annual Feedback and Monitoring Survey, the national PRES, and Staff-Student
 Committee minutes. The constituency of our PGR Staff-Student Committee is representative of
 the diverse range of students on the programme (according to modes of study, gender, ethnicity,
 disability and neurodiversity).




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity

 This submission comprises 39 entrants, of whom 24 (62%) are women, 10 (26%) are non-
 white-British, 7 (18%) are BAME, and 2 (5%) have disabilities. Of Senior Staff Grades
 entered, 7/10 are female. Twenty of the overall entry of 39 (52%) are on grades 7 or 8.

 A number of senior researchers (e.g. Cere, Kilby and Ramamurthy) are involved in the
 ‘decolonising’ of the taught curriculum. All researchers have access to infrastructures designed
 to tackle inequality. These include local support networks and initiatives relating to a range of
 contemporary diversity and inclusion agendas, including race, gender, disability and LGBT+
 communities.

 The Unit ensures that all relevant policies and processes are deployed effectively. All staff
 complete mandatory Unconscious Bias training. Recruiting managers and members of the REF
 Reading Group are required to complete a second recruitment-focussed Unconscious Bias
 training module alongside a similar EDI module, to help address potential bias in processes of
 staff selection or research assessment.

 The Unit supports staff participation in research and research communities via funding for
 conferences, training, project expenses, open access, indexing and journal editing. These are
 equally available to all staff, including those on fractional contracts, and PhD students,
 regardless of mode of study. We are sensitive and supportive when staff and student
 circumstances change. PhD students are able to take a break in study if they are unable to engage
 with their studies. Staff and students are invited to a return-to-work or study meeting to ensure
 the necessary support is in place for a re-entering the research environment.

 Students with disabilities can access support from the central Disabled Student Support Service,
 including assistance with Disabled Support Allowance applications, assessments and negotiation
 of a Learning Contract that sets out reasonable adjustments for research, supervision and
 assessment. The HoRD has overall responsibility for ensuring recommendations are
 implemented. Access to community and training activities for staff and students via
 videoconference accelerated rapidly during 2020. An increase in attendance and feedback
 suggests this has been instrumental in not just maintaining but increasing participation, especially
 amongst part-time students and those with caring responsibilities.

 Recruitment is undertaken in careful accordance with university policies for equality, diversity and
 inclusion, which are integral to the Hallam Deal. Shortlisting involves independent criterion-based
 assessment by panel members. Candidates with a disability who meet the essential criteria are
 automatically shortlisted and are asked if reasonable adjustments may help at interview. Interview
 panels, including those for PhD studentships, are required to include female and male panel
 members. All staff involved in the recruitment and selection process are required to have
 undertaken recruitment and selection training offered by the University, which includes training on
 equal opportunities legislation and gender and diversity.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding

 Our funding strategy implemented in this census period has sought to establish collaborative
 relationships with partners inside and outside of academia, generate high quality research outputs,
 and create pathways to the achievement of high-level impact. More specifically:

    1. We have targeted seed funding at ‘small’ research projects, which have then led to the
       achievement of larger research grants geared to producing research impact and outputs
       (e.g. Lockley).


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. We have encouraged and fostered collaborative responses to funding opportunities with
       other academic institutions (e.g. Ciolfi and Ramamurthy).
    3. We have continued to develop relationships with non-academic partners in the co-
       design and co-production of digital technologies, which generate impact and funding
       opportunities (e.g. Phelan and Akghar).
    4. We have invested Quality Related research funds and other internal finance to create
       research leave, provide administrative and scholastic support (e.g. research assistance,
       archiving or indexing), to ensure high-quality publications and promote interdisciplinary
       networks of staff at SHU and elsewhere (e.g. Louis, Phelan and Clarke).

 Grant income has doubled in size compared with the previous census period, and the
 average amount of each award risen correspondingly from £28,276.64 to £34,838.98 (a 23%
 increase). Most of these grants came from the European Commission (22 awards, totalling
 £6,578,351.21). Elsewhere, income was drawn from diverse funding streams, including the
 AHRC, EPSRC, MRS, NIHR, Research England, Innovate UK and the Nuffield Foundation.
 Seed corn funding, discussed below, has played a major role in stimulating this success.

 Impact VR's growing track record of research income was initially stimulated by a SHU ‘Imagine’
 grant (£19,610) in 2014, awarded to build a prototype VR experience for testing prosthetic designs.
 The team has received capital investment on an annual basis since 2017, amounting to just over
 £36,000. The project leader (Phelan) was recently awarded £38,000 from the SHU CKIP fund to
 employ two Research Assistants for six months, adding further capacity to the team. Phelan’s
 grants include the NIHR funded Virtual Reality Prosthetics Training System (£290,790) and
 three RE GrowMedTech collaborative industry awards (£123,480). Games industry leaders
 including EPIC and UBISOFT have invested development equipment (e.g. the ‘UNREAL’ VR
 development platform), and EPIC Megagrants have invited Phelan to apply for innovation funding,
 with the potential to access EPIC's in-house development teams and assets. Phelan's research
 routinely involves partnerships, including with the University of Sheffield, Sheffield Children's and
 Teaching Hospitals, EPIC and VR systems developers.

 Our commitment to securing research funding based on external partnerships is
 exemplified by the CENTRIC strategy of forging trans-European collaboration with Law
 Enforcement Agencies and non-governmental institutions (notably the United Nations
 Institute of Migration), with it securing £6,578,351 in the census period. This approach is also
 evident in the heritage-related work of Ciolfi and Ramamurthy. Ciolfi was awarded an H2020 grant
 (SHU award £277,461) for her Culture Labs project, which explored the potential of using
 interactive technology in cultural heritage settings (notably museums). Meanwhile, Ramamurthy
 has received AHRC funding (SHU award £178,899) for her Creative Interruptions project,
 exploring the history and contemporary potential of documentary film as a source of political
 resistance and assertion in Palestine. Finally, Lockley's project with collaborators at the University
 of Liverpool secured funding from the Nuffield Foundation (SHU award £19,759).

 Seed corn funding from SHU’s strategic research investment programme has supported Louis to
 lead a new research cluster (Transnational Popular Culture as a Catalyst for Social Change);
 Phelan’s research platform investment to develop VR applications for prosthetics (£45,000); and
 Clarke’s leadership of a cross SHU cluster on Contemporary Legend, which in 2019 became the
 Centre for Contemporary Legend.

 Staff have also been able to draw on CCRC's budget, on a competitive basis, to enhance areas
 of lone scholarship activity. For example, O'Toole and Waddington were granted periods of
 study leave for the writing up of research monographs on public relations and cultural
 history respectively. CCRC likewise funded an inaugural symposium for the Centre for
 Contemporary Legend. Its founders, Clarke and Rodgers, then secured SHU New Research
 Cluster Funding which (in combination with matched funding by CCRC) allowed them to host a
 follow up event in September 2019, to further establish the research agenda on urban myth,
 contemporary legend, media and popular culture.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Organisational Infrastructure

 Centralised support is provided by the University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS) and
 the Library. The former employs 27 FTE personnel whose brief is to develop overarching research
 strategy and policy, provide training and governance, facilitate bid development, help foster
 collaborative partnerships, and ensure quality and integrity. The Library Research Support Team
 (4 FTE) provides expert advice and support for matters including research data management,
 open access and oversight of the publications’ repository.

 Dedicated local administrative support for CCRC is channelled via the Culture and Creativity
 Research Institute professional services team (8 FTE). Support includes events organisation,
 project administration, postgraduate research (student, supervisor and management support),
 research communications and online presence, and contract research and consultancy support.
 Each Institute also has a newly created Innovation Manager post. Until 2019, Knowledge Transfer
 provision within the Institute was jointly led by a locally based full-time Business Manager and a
 Knowledge Transfer Champion. From Spring 2020 we are now supported by a Research Institute
 Manager and Innovation Manager.

 All external funding bids go through a rigorous authorisation process. Research projects are
 supported through initial start-up meetings to establish administrative, financial and management
 assistance, and ensure project leaders are supported with project delivery. They are further
 supported through the Institute’s Project Support & Monitoring Group, which requires periodic
 reporting to track progress and address any challenges. Health & Safety (H&S) is managed within
 the Institute by a senior academic H&S Lead and is overseen by a H&S Committee.


 Research Facilities

 Dedicated research facilities available to members of the Centre include two user laboratories for
 the study of human interaction with regard to different technologies, media, and environments.
 The laboratories include full professional motion-capture equipment; eye-tracking mechanisms;
 TV and radio recording facilities; video, audio and animation editing suites; and data analysis tools.
 Film Studies and Film & Screenwriting staff and postgraduate students have access to The
 Void, a 93-seat, purpose-built, viewing theatre equipped with raked seating and flip-up desks, a
 large screen with variable masking capable of expanding to CinemaScope ratio, a 4K digital
 cinema projector with seven-track stereo surround sound, and twin 35mm film projectors with
 Dolby Stereo capability. This facility is regularly utilised for conferences, research-related
 screenings, postgraduate study and when hosting visiting lecturers. Also available to staff and
 postgraduate researchers in this area is Hall's online database of films on television. Launched in
 2017, this constitutes an open-access website for the benefit of scholars and the general public.
 It currently includes transmission data on some 26,000 films broadcast on free-to-air public-service
 channels since 1937.

 External collaborators (e.g. with SAS and Sony) have provided additional infrastructure, including
 data-mining tools and professional games development stations, as part of our strategic
 commitments to expanding the presence and scope of VR Impact and CENTRIC. The former now
 commands a designated office/laboratory space for four staff members, each having dual screens
 and high-performance personal computers for game development. Two of the spaces have large
 artistic tablets to sculpt on. The team has some fifteen state-of-the-art headsets (including each
 version of the HTC Vive, Oculus headsets and Samsung Gear VR) for the purpose of development
 and external demonstrations.

 CENTRIC's physically and digitally secure office space contains a research working area for up
 to fifty research staff, allowing them to work confidentially on a separate subnet to the remainder
 of the University. In addition, the CENTRIC VR Lab is configured to support the development and
 testing of virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) experiences for the training of law

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enforcement officers and other security practitioners. This Lab is equipped with several VR/AR
 headsets, including 2x HTC Vive, HTC Vive Pro, HTC Vive Cosmos, Magic Leap, Microsoft
 Hololens 2 and a Valve Index. A DJI Mavic Pro drone is also available to capture outdoor footage
 that can be rendered in VR. All requisite software and computing equipment are available to
 facilitate VR/AR development.

 Crucially, the CENTRIC Open-Source Intelligence Hub (OSINT Hub) is a dedicated space where
 six OSINT analysts can work or receive training on OSINT investigations. The Hub operates on a
 separate network, facilitating access to the dark web, and provides a standalone PC for each user.
 Therefore, the Hub can be used by both CENTRIC staff and seconded officers from nearby police
 forces for sensitive investigations. The OSINT Hub contains CENTRIC developed software - the
 CENTRIC OSINT Platform (COP) - to manage open-source investigations.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 CCRC is the hub of local, national and international collaborations which have led to funding, joint
 research and impact. This includes Lockley’s collaborative research with Liverpool University
 colleagues researching Citizens’ Data Literacies, which secured funding from the Nuffield
 Foundation. Ramamurthy's Nursing Narratives grant (Covid-19 Rapid Response Call) was
 awarded with partners from MMU and the NHS. Fenwick’s collaborative bid concerned with Life
 and Legacy: Studying the Work of Stanley Kubrick, secured (€31,875) from the NIAS-Lorentz
 Center. These funds contributed to the costs of a five-day international workshop at the University
 of Leiden in 2019. Ciolfi secured her Culture Labs award in conjunction with colleagues at
 the Universities of Athens and Bamberg, and her From Caring to Sharing bid involved another
 international partnership. Akhgar and Phelan have secured several bids in collaboration with other
 HEIs.

 We have also established a number of mixed academic and non-academic research teams, for
 example Phelan’s work with academic and clinical teams at Sheffield and Manchester Teaching
 Hospitals, including the latter's Mobility and Specialised Rehabilitation Centre.

 The scope of CENTRIC’s work sees them involved in partnerships with organisations in 31
 countries. They participate in 21 international security-related research projects, acting as either
 project coordinator or technical lead in nine of these projects.

 Thematic clusters of widely aligned colleagues within Hallam have further provided internal and
 external collaboration opportunities (notably Hall's Film, Television, Theatre and Performance
 Research Network, Louis' Transnational Popular Culture as a Catalyst for Social Change, and
 Clarke and Rodgers' Centre for Contemporary Folklore initiative.


 Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 Engaging Research Users

 The majority of our research grants involved robust partnerships with non-academic ‘user’ groups,
 e.g. the law enforcement, humanitarian aid agencies and health professionals involved in the work
 of CENTRIC and VR Impact. Akhgar has been an invited or keynote speaker at five law
 enforcement or security industry conferences e.g. 5 Eyes Counter Terrorism Command
 Information Session, Australia, 2019. Day has given presentations on ways of combatting cyber
 threats to the Intergovernmental Council for the Information for All Programme (IFAP) and the
 Knowledge Societies Division of UNESCO. In 2019, Phelan was interviewed on BBC Breakfast,
 BBC Click, and the News Channel about his collaborative work with Sheffield Children's


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hospital. Other projects also included organisations such as the National Media Museum,
 European Forum for Migration Studies, and the National Board of Antiquities.

 Hurley and his co-authors were invited to launch their book, NATO, Gender and the Military,
 at the annual conference of the NATO Committee on Gender Perspectives at NATO
 headquarters in Brussels in 2019, where they ran a workshop for member states and were also
 invited by Women in International Security (WIIS) and the Irish Ambassador to Belgium, to launch
 the book at the Irish Embassy.

 Adam was an invited speaker on scientific aids to policing and detection in the 1930s at a History
 of Policing seminar at the Home Office, and she produced a blog post for the Royal College of
 Physicians of Edinburgh heritage blog on the history of forensic science in Scotland.

 For the launch of his Interim Report from the ‘Forging’ project (June 2018), Jeffery organised a
 public conference at The Circle in Sheffield, which was attended by a range of leaders from public
 and voluntary sectors and was covered by BBC Radio Sheffield. For the launch of the Final Report,
 Tackling Labour Market Injustice and Organising Workers: The View from a Northern Heartland,
 Jeffery organised an online event in 2020 hosted by Sheffield TUC, the Institute for
 Employment Rights, and War on Want.

 As part of the ‘Fear’ series of conferences on horror movies, Mann hosted several collaborative
 events with industry, including a short film showcase in collaboration with Celluloid Screams Film
 Festival and a live Q&A with Larry Fessenden (producer and director of Glass Eye Pix). Fenwick
 co-curated a public exhibition based on his research on Stanley Kubrick at De Montfort
 University’s Heritage Centre. In addition to negotiating the loan of certain items from the Stanley
 Kubrick Archive, Fenwick also provided text for the exhibition programme, promotional leaflet, and
 exhibition panel displays. He curated a Kubrick film season at the Phoenix Cinema in Leicester in
 2016, and gave a talk and engaged in a Q&A session as part of the German Film Museum's
 commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of 2001: A Space Odyssey.

 As part of an event staged by Accumulations, a collective of dance and performance artists,
 at Whitworth Hall in 2016, Abulhawa curated a series of twelve performances for the general
 public. Speidel was interviewed on stage at Austen at 200, 2017. She also gave a public lecture
 and seminar on Aki Kaurismäki’s Hamlet Goes Business for the Shakespeare on Film series at
 the Showroom Cinema, Sheffield (2016). Waddington wrote the programme notes (‘Women - the
 Backbone of the Strike’) for the play, Queen Coal, at the Crucible Theatre, Sheffield in 2014.

 There are several instances of the public dissemination of our work via the media. Deller
 contributed as a ‘talking head’ in two BBC TV documentaries (When Pop Ruled My Life, BBC
 Four, and Artsnight, BBC Two, both 2015). Fenwick was interviewed by Wired magazine in 2018
 on the legacy of 2001: A Space Odyssey. In 2020, he was interviewed about his book, Stanley
 Kubrick Produces, by The Guardian and was a guest on the Talk Radio Europe Giles Brown show.
 Clarke’s expertise on folklore and unexplained phenomena has been cited in numerous
 online, print and broadcast news reports and feature length documentaries, including
 interviews with the BBC, ITN, CNN, Fox News, Paris Review, Guardian and New York Times,
 and consultancy roles with the BBC and A&E History Channel. In 2017, Clarke talked about
 ‘Fake News and World War 1’ on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, Radio 5 live and BBC York.
 In 2017 Clarke was a featured expert on a BBC ‘Inside Out’ programme, celebrating the 50th
 anniversary of a flying-saucer hoax. Hall contributed to the 50th anniversary of the blockbuster,
 Zulu, with several articles appearing in national and international media in January 2014 (e.g.
 Cinema Retro magazine, Independent on Sunday, South African Witness newspaper, US Digital
 Bits website, and Sheffield Star).

 Cere is Chair and founder of MeCCSA's REaPN (Race, Ethnicity and Postcolonial Network) and
 a committee member of MeCCSA's Social Movements Network. She initiated the Shared
 Solidarities series which was held at SHU from 2015-2018, including the Interaction of Parties,
 Unions and Social Movement Networks (2015); Political Activism and Community Media (2016);

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Framing Catastrophe (2017); and Galvanising the Women's Movement (2018). Kilby, as a fellow
 of Sheffield Institute for Policy Studies (SIPS), hosted a keynote public event at the 2020 Off the
 Shelf literary festival. She has helped set up a Homeless Women’s Network, which connects
 international researchers with professionals working in policy and practice, and hosted a public
 engagement event exploring the challenges facing homeless women within the Sheffield Festival
 of Social Science. Jeffery has been engaged in a collaborative co-funded research project entitled
 Forging an Inclusive Labour Market, exploring Sheffield’s precarious, low-paid labour markets.

 Engaging Diverse Communities

 Phelan exhibited a digitally interactive arm scanner and a virtual reality prosthetic training
 experience at the Paralympics in 2017. The exhibition was repeated in Sheffield to coincide with
 the city’s hosting of the Special (Disability) Olympics. CENTRIC’s Unity project incorporates a
 technology platform to enhance community-police relationships. It involved consultations with
 local communities, including disabled and/or minority communities (e.g. deaf and LGBT+ groups).

 In 2017, Abulhawa undertook a British Council performance residency in Cape Town,
 developing artworks and dance routines with local performers, portraying everyday life,
 which were exhibited at the Festival of Belonging, Manchester Central Library (2020). Since
 2015, Abulhawa has been involved in research and practice focusing on the SkatePal charity,
 which builds skate-parks for children in the West Bank, Occupied Palestinian Territories.
 Abulhawa created a performance called Feint Lines for the Not Quite Light Festival in Salford,
 using skate-boarding choreography to explain women’s anxieties about occupying urban spaces
 at night, and an audio piece on migration and belonging for the Migration Matters Festival,
 Sheffield.

 Ramamurthy organised a public conference featuring Palestinian filmmakers and directors at the
 Showroom Cinema, Sheffield, in 2019, on her work on the AHRC-funded Creative Interruptions
 project, which challenges the erasure of Palestinian cultures and film histories. In 2019, she gave
 a public lecture at Birkbeck College to mark the 40th anniversary of the Southall protests.
 Ramamurthy also produced a blog post for Discover Society, related to her research for
 her book on Asian youth movements. This research was used as the basis of articles by Al
 Jazeera.

 Shin has worked to improve public knowledge and appreciation of Asian cinema. She has
 introduced public film screenings of Korean and Japanese films at cinemas in Derby, Nottingham
 and Sheffield. Shin was invited speaker at the Korean Cultural Centre (London) in 2015 and
 the organiser of the Korean Film Nights series of public events, held at SHU in association
 with Korean Cultural Centre UK (2015–2017). She hosted a Q&A session with the film director
 Cho Jung-Rae in Sheffield in 2016. She chaired and provided translation for the London Korean
 Film Festival special event (a screening of Candle Wave Feminists), and for a panel discussion of
 ‘Filming Feminism in Action’ at The British Museum in 2017.

 Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Contributions include the benefits for NHS patients and staff, and major cost reductions,
 associated with Phelan's VR work; and technologies developed by CENTRIC such as: SCAAN
 (crisis management and promoting safety and security of humanitarian aid staff), Open Source
 Intelligence Hub (OSINT) (aiding the investigation organised crime and counter-terrorism
 operations), Yorkshire Cyber (a serious gaming device to train small firms and community groups
 in ‘cyber resilience’), and Cryptocurrency (an interactive game for training police officers in cyber-
 crime). In 2017 Akhgar and his colleagues produced a GDPR Guide for the Police and Crime
 Commissioners' Chief Executive (UK).

 The BFAWU (Bakers’ Union) has invested £10,000 in the hiring of an organiser to unionise
 fast food workers in the city, as a direct result of the Interim Report on Forging an Inclusive


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Labour Market research by Jeffery. Additionally, his colleagues and unions in the city are
 collaborating with Know the Line, an organisation challenging sexual harassment in the workplace.

 Advisory documents by Murphy emphasised corporate social responsibility in response to the
 Xinjiang forced labour controversy and primed government agencies in the identification and way
 to respond to human trafficking, resulting in an American company's withdrawal from a relevant
 supply chain. Her work on human slavery has also been adopted by the US Department of Health
 and Human Services and by U.S. Runaway and Homeless Youth Programs for training and
 programme development.

 Clarke's work as curator on The National Archives (TNA) UFO files culminated in his creation in
 2014 of an online platform for general public use. As of 2017, the TNA webpage received 3
 million visits from 160 different countries; 5.7 million pages have been viewed and over 3.8
 million pages downloaded. Hall collaborated with the British Film Institute in creating his online
 historical database of 26,000 feature films broadcast on British television since 1937.


 Contributions to the Discipline

 Prestigious Positions and Awards

 Cere is an Elected Member of the MeCCSA Executive Committee. Ciolfi is UK representative and
 Chair of the Short-Term Scientific Missions for COST Action (European Cooperation in Science
 and Technology). Clarke is European Representative of the International Society for
 Contemporary Legend Research (ISCLR). Kilby is International Chairperson for the American
 Psychological Association Society for Qualitative Inquiry in Psychology (SQIP) and a committee
 member of the British Psychological Society's Qualitative Methods in Psychology (QMiP), the BPS
 National Taskforce for Diversity & Inclusion, and the Standing Group on Critical Peace and Conflict
 of the European Consortium for Political Research. Palmer is Conference Committee Member for
 Multidisciplinary Approaches on United Nations Sustainable Development Goals at the Nakhon
 Pathom Rajabhat University. Adam is a member of the EPSRC Review Colleges.

 Bayerl is on the Advisory Boards of ‘Pluralisation of local urban security structures’ and ‘Prevention
 of violence through communication’, both funded by the German Ministry of Education and
 Research. Ramamurthy acted as academic consultant on an AHRC-funded project led by the
 University of Leeds in 2017. Waddington was academic advisor from 2016-2019 on the ESRC-
 funded project, ‘Beyond contagion’.

 In 2016, Akhgar chaired the nationwide Police Strategy Forum. He is a member of seven advisory
 boards, including Europol’s EC3 academic advisory board. Palmer is a Scientific Committee
 Member for the International Association of Cultural and Digital Tourism, has been a Board
 member of the Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative (NARTI), and was appointed Chair
 of the Board of Trustees of Yorkshire Icon Ltd. (The Steel Man) in 2019.

 In terms of prestigious prizes, Murphy was presented with the ‘First Book Prize’ (2014) by the
 African Literature Association for Metaphor and the Slave Trade, and has been awarded three
 prestigious fellowships: National Humanities Center Fellowship (2017-2018), British Academy
 Visiting Fellowship, University of Nottingham (Autumn 2018-Spring 2019), and the National
 Endowment for the Humanities Public Scholar (2019-2020). Ciolfi received the Maynooth
 University Social Science Institute Research Fellowship for the academic year 2019-20 and was
 awarded Senior Membership of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) in 2016. Shin
 was the recipient of the Korea Foundation Field Research Fellowship in 2019. This enabled her
 to research the Seoul International Women’s Film Festival in 2019. Fenwick was awarded a
 European Association for America Studies Transatlantic Research grant in 2017 to undertake a
 month-long research trip to the USA.



                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Editorial Positions

 Ciolfi and Jeffery are Associate Editors of the CSCW Journal and Contention respectively. Hurley
 is an Assistant Editor for Oxford Feminist E-Press. The following colleagues have served on the
 editorial or advisory boards of these journals: Adam (International Journal of Gender, Science and
 Technology; International Journal of Communication, Ethics and Society; IT & People), Cere
 (Crime, Media, Culture); Deller (Celebrity Studies); Fenwick (Frames); Kilby (Critical Terrorism
 Studies); Louis (International Journal of Law and Society); Palmer (Asian Journal of Tourism
 Research); Rodriguez-Amat (La Trama de la Comunicación); Shin (Journal of Japanese and
 Korean Cinema; East Asian Journal of Popular Culture); Southern (Journal of Veterans Studies);
 and Speidel (Journal of Adaptation in Film & Performance).

 Colleagues have occupied similar roles in relation to book publication. Fenwick founded the book
 series Unmade Film and Television with Intellect in 2019 and established an international editorial
 advisory board, on which he is Editor-in-Chief. Cere is currently on two editorial boards: the first
 is for the Book Series, Protest, Media and Culture, published by Rowman and Littlefield
 International, and the second for EUS Edizioni Umanistiche Scientifiche (Rome). Akhgar is series
 editor on cyber-crime for Elsevier.

 Conferences and Workshops

 Since 2014, colleagues have played prominent roles as organiser or keynote speaker at numerous
 conferences or symposia. Louis was the principal organiser and Chair of the Languages and
 Cultures 21st Century Transnationality Conference in 2016. ‘Fear 2000’ (Mann) attracted
 international horror scholars across four events and has featured keynote lectures from a number
 of leading researchers in the field (e.g. the late Peter Hutchings). Abulhawa co-organised the first-
 ever conference on skateboarding (Pushing Boarders) in London in 2018, and a second one in
 Malmö one year later. Other organising committee roles have been occupied by Bayerl (e.g.
 European Conference on Social Media, 8th International Conference on eDemocracy &
 eGovernment, and 6th Annual Conference on Computational Science & Computational
 Intelligence, all 2019), and Palmer - International Conferences on Humanities and Social Science
 Research (2016, 2017).

 Akhgar has given keynote lectures on intelligence informatics, big data, data protection and the
 future of security research at conferences in Brussels, Uppsala and Tehran. Bayerl was keynote
 speaker at the OSCE Annual Policing Experts Meeting 2019, Vienna, Austria. Clarke has delivered
 keynote lectures on WW1 rumours at de Montfort University, UFOs at the Dana Centre, Science
 Museum, London, and at the Supernatural in Contemporary Society Conference (SCSC). In 2019,
 Jeffery gave a keynote address at the annual conference of the British Sociological Association
 Bourdieu Study Group. Kilby has delivered keynote talks on ‘Imposter Syndrome’ for the British
 Psychological Society National Conference (2019). Louis has delivered keynote lectures on
 Carmen de Burgos in Kentucky (2014), Murcia (2017) and Madrid (2018). Murphy has delivered
 keynote lectures on labour trafficking/modern slavery at conferences in Denmark, England,
 Germany and Nigeria, and at various locations in the USA (e.g. Kansas City, Las Vegas, San
 Diego and Washington DC). Shin has been an invited speaker on Korean cinema at the
 Universities of Copenhagen (2015), Tübingen (2018) and Budapest (2019), and was a keynote
 speaker at the 7th Korean Screen Culture Conference in Helsinki (2018).




                                                                                              Page 17
