Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: C13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 We have created a unique, inclusive and flourishing research and innovation ‘ecosystem’ in the
 School of Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering at Loughborough University. Our research
 delivers tangible solutions to mitigate the global effects of climate change, create a zero-carbon
 future and realise the UK’s Industrial Strategy and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
 (SDGs).

 Building on our top ranking for research environment in REF2014, we have grown our academic
 staff base by 21% (14 new posts), invested £2.5M in new facilities, and achieved unprecedented
 success with external research funding and prestigious fellowships. Consistent with our strategy
 to develop national centres of excellence, we have secured over £8.5M of UKRI funding to
 establish the UK’s Centre for Postdoctoral Development in Infrastructure, Cities and Energy (C-
 DICE) and the UK Collaboratorium for Research on Infrastructure and Cities (UKCRIC) National
 Facility for Advanced Infrastructure Construction (NFAIC). These advances – and founder-
 member status of the £138M UKCRIC and the £60M Energy Research Accelerator (ERA) –
 position us at the vanguard of efforts to address complex global and national interdisciplinary
 challenges.

 We deliver change through our £48M portfolio of leading-edge, challenge-driven research
 projects, with connectivity and opportunities nurtured by our vibrant cohort of international and
 industrial visiting professors, which has expanded our collaborative networks, influence and
 routes to impact. Our new programmes in Architecture and Urban Planning, with new staff
 appointments, bring novel underpinning research capabilities and fulfil our aspiration to become
 a truly integrated school of the built environment. We undertake research and deliver impact
 within – and across the interfaces between – every discipline relevant to the design, production
 and maintenance of the built environment (Architecture, Urban Planning, Civil and Architectural
 Engineering, Construction and Commercial Management and Transport Planning and
 Management).

 The Unit (hereafter ‘the School’) wholly comprises the collocated and interdisciplinary School of
 Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering at Loughborough University (LU), employing
 (headcount) 80 academic, 29 research, 15 technical and 26 support staff. Leadership for
 research and impact comes from the Associate Deans for Research (ADR) and Enterprise
 (ADE) who sit on the School Senior Leadership Team (SLT), which the Dean chairs, alongside
 other senior colleagues. The ADR and ADE sit on the University Research and Enterprise
 Committees, respectively, chaired by the respective Pro Vice-Chancellors.

 1.1 Research Themes

 Global challenges have no respect for disciplinary boundaries. Our research is therefore
 challenge-led and problem-driven, exploiting the opportunities at, and across, disciplinary
 interfaces through three linked themes: Sustainable Built Environment, Resilient
 Infrastructure and Digital Transformation.

 Sustainable Built Environment research is accelerating progress towards a zero emissions
 future. Our research to predict, measure and control internal environments and energy demand
 in buildings continues to transform practice, and has expanded to cover Low- and Middle-
 Income Countries (LMICs). New activity includes the management and control of integrated
 energy systems and supporting transition towards a smart grid. Designation as an RAEng
 Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Building Design, and three tranches of EPSRC funding for
 our Energy-related CDT, demonstrate clear leadership in this field.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Resilient Infrastructure research addresses the challenges of planning, designing, delivering,
 maintaining and operating enduring built-assets in the face of climate change and human-
 induced threat. It sustains our 50-year pedigree of improving the lives of diverse, marginalised
 communities around the world, and addresses many of the UN’s SDGs. Research is conducted
 in five main areas: safe mobility; transport policy; structural and geotechnical infrastructure; flood
 risk and management; and water, sanitation and waste management. UKCRIC funding and the
 Water-WISER CDT reflect our leadership in this field.

 Digital Transformation research formulates radical new digital approaches to the design,
 manufacture, delivery and operation of buildings and infrastructure, and the complementary
 evolution of the organisations driving the new industrial revolution. Capitalising on nascent but
 rapidly maturing technologies – artificial intelligence, machine learning and digital fabrication –
 our research weaves new paths to enable the sector to adopt and, most importantly, rapidly
 adapt to, new digitally-driven approaches. Our world-leading work in 3D concrete printing is an
 example of our leadership in digital fabrication technology. This focus has been augmented with
 a more expansive exploitation of data as sources of societal and commercial value, and their
 valorisation, to help industry actors satisfy government policy, secure commercial advantage,
 address global challenges and meet intergenerational need.

 1.1.1 Approach to Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
 Our School is innately interdisciplinary by virtue of the breadth of work it supports and the
 complex challenges we address. All colleagues engage in problem-led enquiry, often informed
 by our collaborative network. Interdisciplinary research is further stimulated by the institutional
 CALIBRE framework (Collective Ambition at Loughborough for Building Research Excellence),
 which is the research component of the University’s Building Excellence strategy. The
 framework includes the Built Environment Beacon (Lomas leads) which recognises our pre-
 eminence in this field, and four Global Challenges (Changing Environments, Energy, Health and
 Wellbeing, Secure and Resilient Societies) in which we are deeply engaged. Cross-campus,
 external and international interdisciplinary activities fostered by CALIBRE include our research
 with: meteorologists and geographers (Xia), health care staff and clinicians (Price), material
 scientists (Buswell), human physiologists (Lomas, Loveday), bio-mechanists (Fleming),
 biological anthropologists (Smith) and economists (Bosher, Soetanto). We also ensure our
 applied research is founded on cutting-edge theoretical advances in areas such as fluid
 dynamics (e.g. work led by Keylock and Liang), organisational theory (e.g. Dainty, Thomson)
 and numerical methods (e.g. Palmeri, Clubley). These theorists work across all three themes.

 1.2 Review of the Unit’s REF2014 Objectives and Plans

 In 2014, the School submitted returns to both Built Environment (C16) and Civil Engineering
 (B14); all of the combined research and impact objectives in those submissions have been met
 or exceeded.

 Objective 1: Reinforce our global reputation for integrated built environment research
 Working closely with our global stakeholders, significant new collaborations have built capability
 to address energy demand and indoor comfort, and overcome risks from flooding and slope
 instability, enhancing the built environment for LMIC communities. We have become a partner of
 choice for leading international organisations such as UC Berkeley, TU Delft, CEPT (India), and
 universities in Vietnam, Ghana and Kenya, as demonstrated by our significant GCRF portfolio.
 Furthermore, our UK influence is demonstrated by strategic relationships with HS2 and
 leadership of C-DICE which brought together 18 leading HEIs around addressing the net zero
 challenge. With the launch of our Architecture and Urban Planning programmes and recruitment
 of new staff, the School has new colleagues undertaking visionary research, both within their
 discipline – such as architectural history – and across discipline boundaries such as in urban
 design.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Objective 2: Provide bespoke support for colleagues to enhance research quality
 Championing the University’s ‘Raising Standards and Aspirations’ theme, the School has
 developed bespoke, inclusive staff support mechanisms, such as paper and proposal peer
 reviews, enabling colleagues to target and win prestigious grants. Our success is illustrated by
 the growth in externally-funded fellowships, from 1 to 5 in this period (Afolabi, Buswell, Howard,
 Keylock, Smith).

 Objective 3: Expand capacity and capability across resilient infrastructure research
 Through the University’s Building Excellence strategy, we received transformational investment
 of ten Excellence100 appointments in Resilient Infrastructure. One of these (Cavalaro) led the
 bid for a £1.3M investment in specialist equipment/facilities (NFAIC). Collectively these new staff
 have led and won over £4M in research grants. Intrinsic advocacy for CALIBRE’s ‘Secure and
 Resilient Society’ global challenge has coalesced diverse University expertise, expanded
 networks (evidenced by co-authored publications) and funded research across the theme.

 Objective 4: Create a new centre unifying research and enterprise from the School’s two
 UoAs
 The launch of our UKCRIC NFIAC and the award of the C-DICE postdoctoral training centre has
 crystallised a network of eighteen leading UK research institutions and attracted £8.5M of
 external funding. Having established the UKCRIC centre, we negotiated a position as the
 interface between HS2 and the UK research community, providing future collaborative research
 opportunities and effective impact pathways for our UKCRIC partners. Importantly, these
 investments draw upon expertise from across the School, showcasing the collective capability of
 the integrated nature of our research ecosystem.

 Objective 5: Maximise impact by developing more effective impact pathways and
 exploiting commercial opportunities
 Growth of partnerships with leading industry figures across multiple sectors has shaped our
 distinctive research and enterprise strategy. We now deliver research programmes in
 partnership with those delivering transformational infrastructure programmes, both in the UK and
 internationally. This is exemplified by partnerships with Thames Tideway, HS2, Network Rail,
 Highways England the National Water and Sewerage Corporation and WaterAid (Uganda), as
 well as with innovative SMEs, such as Alcuris and Simble, where we expedite the introduction of
 disruptive technologies and market approaches.

 1.3 Realising Impact from Research

 Our strategy for maximising the impact of our research, which embraces the whole school and
 every career stage, is concomitant with the institution-wide enterprise culture. Impact and its
 importance is embraced at senior management level and embedded across the School, as
 exemplified by: recognition in staff contracts and Performance and Development Reviews
 (PDRs); holistic enterprise training (including the Medici programme); and bespoke support to all
 staff, including post-doctoral researchers, from a dedicated Partnership Development Manager
 (PDM).

 Our Enterprise Committee develops and implements the School’s enterprise policy and
 communicates funding and partnering opportunities. Monthly clinics support staff with external
 partner engagement, developing impact pathways, financing and collaboration arrangements.

 Partnerships lie at the heart of our approach to impact, knowledge co-production and innovation.
 Our strategic engagement framework exposes partners to the full range of opportunities, from
 UG sponsorship/placements to long-term research collaborations, consultancy and KTPs.
 Example outcomes include six KTPs, an Innovate UK award of £1M follow-on funding
 (CAVIAR2, Galliford Try), and successional industry funding (e.g. Mitsubishi project, then two
 studentships, £375k). Other significant partners include Highways England, Severn Trent,
 DHSC/NHS, BEIS, MHCLG, the Home Office, Network Rail, HS2, Thames Tideway, the


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 National Trust and the British Standards Institution, some underpinning specific Impact Case
 Studies. Such partnerships generate additional income to support future research, continued
 buy-in, guidance on research directions and translational pathways into organisations.

 Our approach to realising impact from our research can be demonstrated by external
 investments in early-stage innovations to support commercialisation, e.g.: Home Office/DfT
 funding has fast tracked development of a portable scanner to detect concealed knives, and a
 novel energy-saving water-filled glass system is being considered for commercialisation by the
 NSG Group. Our impact case studies illustrate how BEIS funding has helped effect change in
 UK Government policy regarding overheating in dwellings, and a Strategic Priorities Fund (SPF)
 award assisted the development of ‘Slope ALARMS’ to enhance community resilience to
 landslides in Myanmar and Malaysia.

 We also target competitively awarded funding to support TRL scale transition. In this REF
 period, fifteen colleagues accessed £840k of Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) and
 EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding to enable the transition of research into
 industry. This supported three Impact Case Studies, notably funding to build a dementia-friendly
 demonstration house in collaboration with the BRE and healthcare professionals.

 We have also initiated a start-up company (Concrenetics) and registered two patents: Freeform
 Construction, assigned to Concrenetics to pursue commercialisation in Europe, and a new
 reinforced concrete building system, assigned to SolidSpace. These complement established
 spin-outs and licences, such as Adept Management Ltd, which has been proffering cutting-edge
 design management approaches since 2001.

 Consultancy work provides an impact pathway by which staff expertise brings wider commercial
 benefit. Managed through Loughborough University Enterprise Ltd, the income from such work
 is reinvested in our research environment, enabling us to bridge RAs between contracts,
 purchase new equipment and provide training opportunities. In this REF period, 30 School staff
 provided consultancy advice to 82 clients yielding £3M of income, including a ≈£1M BEIS
 contract.

 As testimony to our research impact excellence, ‘Map Matching Algorithms’ (Quddus) won the
 2019 Enterprise Awards ‘Best Impact Award’, receiving 73% of the 5,000 global public votes.
 Our partner, Highways England, adopted our research to revolutionise their road safety
 interventions and continues to collaborate, funding three doctoral studentships.

 Our reputation for significant research has led to impactful appointments: a COVID response
 project to reduce transmission in buildings with DCMS (Cook); membership of DoH advisory
 bodies - Estates and Facilities Productivity Think Tank, Dementia Friendly Environment Working
 Group, Estates and Facilities Division Advisory Group (Price); and early lessons for a new
 normal post COVID-19 in construction (Gibb and Chow). These appointments, founded on
 excellence, save and enrich lives and support wider societal goals.

 Impact Case Studies (ICS)
 The approach described above is captured in a rigorous, recurring multi-point impact audit,
 covering research theme, impact type, significance, reach, strategy, timing, evidence, and
 support requirements, to which all academics contribute. The six ICSs, coincidentally two from
 each research theme, were subject to this audit and they evidence how our culture of enterprise
 has delivered impact nationally and internationally.

 • Sustainable Built Environment:
   o Summertime Overheating built on substantial new primary datasets gathered in
     BuildTEDDI projects (REF5b §3.3) and realised through collaboration with BEIS/MHCLG
     and support from SPF monies.



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   o National and European Daylighting Standards was underpinned by projects (£176k) led by
      Mardaljevic: Climate Based Daylight Modelling (EPSRC/Arup); Weather for Daylight
      Modelling (CIBSE) and propagated by accepted standardisation in the sector.
 • Resilient Infrastructure:
   o Low-cost early landslide warning system tackled a hazard that kills thousands globally
      each year. Smith and Dixon pioneered and commercialised sensing technology that can
      detect soil movement, using £129k EPSRC IAA funds (initial IP protection, proof of
      concept field trials and licencing) alongside external investment).
   o Improving and Protecting the UK Government’s largest asset – the Strategic Road
      Network has generated 99% accurate road collision data, transforming Highways
      England’s approach to road safety management, illustrating our partnership approach to
      co-creating impact).
 • Digital transformation:
   o Transforming industry understanding and practice of designing out waste through the
      development of British Standards on material efficiency led to publication of BS8895, with
      School support for development of this important British Standard.
   o Transforming the £83bn NHS built estate to deliver safe and dementia-friendly care used
      Strategic Asset Management (SAM) to better design, fund and manage NHS England’s
      estate, and was achieved through EPSRC IAA funding and significant engagement with
      practitioners and policymakers.

 1.4 Five Year Research and Impact Objectives/Plans

 How the built environment evolves over the next 50 years will define humanity. Climate change,
 the UN SDGs and our national initiatives, as reiterated recently in the Government’s Ten Point
 Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution, will frame our research. As one of very few Schools that
 unify all relevant disciplines and stakeholders in a genuinely interdisciplinary way, we can rise to
 these challenges. We predict that international collaboration, shorter impact pathways, and
 recruitment of the best staff will be the keys to success. Within this framework, and through
 consultation with colleagues and stakeholders, we have co-created objectives spanning our
 three core themes and beyond:
 1. Building on recent success and leadership of international projects, including ten funded
     through the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF), we will continue to grow our
     international reputation and collaborative research, building on burgeoning research
     partnerships in China, India, USA, Singapore Greece and Switzerland, including Chongqing
     University, IIT Delhi, UC Berkeley, and MIT.
 2. The Build Back Better agenda promise a stronger, fairer economy, but the full impact of
     COVID on these outcomes is yet to be evinced. We will work agilely to accelerate progress
     towards a zero-carbon future, as part of our Sustainable Built Environment theme. Linked
     to this will be building research capability around well-being and the environment.
 3. Although Architecture and Urban Planning are new programmes, appointing research
     leaders in their fields will enable us to grow our Architectural research. We expect
     research in urbanism and urban design, low carbon design and digital fabrication to emerge
     under our Sustainable Built Environment theme.
 4. Responding to conspicuous climate change and exacerbated human-induced threats, our
     Resilient Infrastructure research will work to understand and mitigate flood risk for
     vulnerable communities around the world. Capitalising on the UKCRIC NFAIC, we will
     expand industry-academia collaboration, with our RAEng Visiting Professor Caroline
     Field, as a conduit to tangible impact.
 5. Within our Digital Transformation theme, we will extend our world-leading concrete printing
     capability and, with new production techniques and expanded stakeholder network, we will
     seek to deploy novel concrete components in significant built projects.
 6. Responding to increasingly rapid urbanisation, and a heightened need for safe and
     sustainable living, we plan to coalesce multi-disciplinary teams from all three themes to
     establish a Built Environment Futures Lab for testing and demonstration. Alongside this,



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    we will embed stakeholder engagement into the life of the School by establishing a Built
    Environment Futures Colloquium.
 7. Capitalising on our unique transdisciplinary capability across our three themes, we are
    working towards creating a net zero-carbon facility with regional partners including the
    East Midlands Development Corporation which is being formed around three key sites in the
    East Midlands: East Midlands Airport, Toton (HS2) and Ratcliffe Power Station.
 8. As part of our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) strategy and building on our
    outstanding success in securing fellowships, we will continue to develop a diverse staff
    profile, particularly supporting those from underrepresented groups. We will provide
    development opportunities for all staff and support them towards senior roles thereby
    contributing to the future health of Built Environment research in the UK.

 Looking to the future, the growth of the University Science and Enterprise Park (REF5a§1.1) will
 attract companies seeking our research and innovation capabilities. We are currently pursuing
 opportunities to embed our sustainable building design research into new developments to form
 living laboratories on this site.

 1.5 Open Research Environment

 The University has been a pioneer of the ‘Open Agenda’, actively supporting Repositories for
 text-based outputs (since 2005) and data (since 2015). All, 100%, of the School’s REF outputs
 were accessible within three months of acceptance, exceeding the REF2021 requirement. In line
 with Loughborough’s landmark Open Research Position Statement, 100% of our primary
 research outputs since 2020 are available on Open Access. Increasing the visibility of our
 outputs is regarded as key to ensuring the impact of our high-quality research.

 Our School advocates using the Research Repository for open access to large EPSRC-funded
 datasets: the REFIT and LEEDR projects released comprehensive open datasets, resulting in
 over 3,000 downloads; and Firth and Hassan received a CALIBRE award their innovative Open
 Data approach. The School provides Open Methods and Open Software through the repository
 to enhance reproducibility, and our category on ‘Built Environment and Design’ has received 5
 million downloads over the REF period.

 1.6 Culture of Research integrity

 Our culture of research integrity is firmly rooted within the University’s Ethical Policy Framework.
 Our researchers are accountable for adherence to this Framework, and responsible for
 conducting ethics checks on all proposed projects and seeking necessary approvals from
 institutional Ethics sub-committees (human participants, human tissue) or the main Ethics
 Committee (philanthropic funding, military applications, animal testing, etc.).

 The Dean appoints an academic colleague to operate our local process, review ethical
 approvals and liaise with Research and Enterprise Office staff and institutional committees. Our
 School Operations Manager is our Data Coordinator and provides advice and support on GDPR
 and related issues, acting as a conduit to the University Data Governance Manager for more
 complex queries. Our Health, Safety and Environment (HS&E) Officer, together with two
 deputies, ensures we always exceed the legal and institutional requirements for HS&E.


 2. PEOPLE

 2.1 Staffing and Recruitment Strategy

 All academic staff contribute to teaching, research and enterprise activities. All academics have
 ringfenced time for research and impact activities, with specific allocations for managing
 research grants, doctoral supervision, impact and enterprise projects; and collaboration-building.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We expect and incentivise collegiality from the earliest career stages and, as careers develop,
 we expect broader leadership contributions. For example, since 2015, 12 School staff have
 served on the University Senate, and the School’s membership has changed from 100% male to
 40% female. Academic staff have open-ended contracts, while research staff are on fixed-term
 contracts related to projects (81 recruited since 2016) in line with sector norms. Part-time
 working is welcome and three academic staff work part-time.

 Since REF2014, the University approach to recruiting excellent staff at all career stages, from
 postdoctoral and early career researchers (ECRs) through mid-career and senior roles, has
 radically changed, driven by the University Strategy and beginning with the ‘Excellence100’
 campaign in which we recruited 18 world-leading staff who have already contributed significantly
 by securing funding, expanding our global academic and industrial links, mentoring colleagues,
 and enhancing teaching excellence. A special Excellence100 element, now retained indefinitely,
 is the Doctoral Prize Fellowships. The School has hosted 2 Fellows, one current and one
 (Smith) who subsequently secured an EPSRC fellowship and Philip Leverhulme Prize.

 Building on Excellence100, recruitment to established posts is now conducted through biannual
 recruitment rounds, managed centrally but with significant School input, rather than piecemeal
 replacement hires. With excellence as the primary criterion, these rounds deliver better
 international recruitment and improved diversity. In total, we have expanded our staff base by
 21%, while also recruiting replacements for 25 leavers, strengthening alignment of expertise with
 research themes and forming a truly integrated school of the built environment. For Architecture
 alone, we recruited 12 staff. Since 2016 we made appointments at all levels (3 Prof / Reader, 6
 SL, 25 L) to ensure critical mass and leadership in the research themes. Of these 34 new
 appointments, 38% were female and 38% BAME. We doubled the proportion of female
 colleagues.

 The School continually assesses its succession needs for research leadership positions,
 recently launching a new strategy enabling all colleagues to apply for such positions or join the
 School SLT. Two new SLT roles were introduced: Director of Academic Staffing and
 Development (including workload planning and resource management) and a strategic Director
 of ED&I.

 2.2 Staff Development Strategy

 Through perspicacious leadership, the School fosters an environment in which established and
 early-career researchers can rapidly develop to realise their full potential in a world-class
 research environment. We celebrate success with our annual School Awards, which recognise
 all job families and career stages, and via articles in our regular School Newsletter.

 Loughborough’s Organisational Development offers a wide spectrum of training opportunities
 and support for staff at all career stages. Courses range from earliest stages (Welcome to
 Loughborough) through essential training (Information security training, Unconscious Bias) to
 training for staff becoming senior managers (Coaching conversations for managers, Recruitment
 and selection). A new voluntary mentoring programme (launched 2020) is available for all staff,
 independent of any management structure. Mentors receive workload recognition and training.

 All academics are expected to obtain Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA).
 For new lecturers, this is integral to their dedicated development programme. More experienced
 colleagues are supported through our `Recognition of Experienced Practitioners' scheme which
 requires preparation of a dossier of evidence to support their application.

 Following the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 the University provides structured support to postdoctoral researchers for career progression
 and development, including preparation of applications for funding. We actively encourage our
 research staff to be part of our research culture by arranging activities tailored specifically to


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 their needs, such as lunchtime academic updates (e.g., REF); visiting academics’ seminars;
 writeshops led by a journal editor; reading groups; Brown Bag lunch skills sessions; one-to-one
 support from our Research Development Manager (appropriate funding, Fellowships). Our
 development ethos has resulted in 11 academic appointments from former doctoral and
 postdoctoral researchers. Rapid progression of two such colleagues (PhD/RA to Senior Lecturer
 within 8 years) evidences the effectiveness of the support we provide.

 Under the New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP), all new lecturers are guided by an experienced
 and trained academic colleague from the School who acts as Adviser. NLP (formerly academic
 probation) was substantially revised in 2017 and includes the full spectrum of research and
 impact activity (publication, funding applications, collaboration, public engagement, non-
 academic partnerships). New lecturers have a reduced workload in teaching and administration
 (33, 50 and 67% of departmental norms in consecutive years), which enables the establishment
 of a full academic profile in research, teaching and impact at a manageable pace. In addition to
 an extensive training programme leading to FHEA, the New Lecturer meets four times annually
 with their Adviser though many more informal meetings are the norm. New Lecturers are
 allocated a University-funded PhD studentship within their first two years, for co-supervision with
 an experienced colleague. Supervision is a requirement to pass the programme, alongside a
 minimum expectation on research output production, and the submission of at least one
 substantial grant application. Our Research Development Manager evaluates support
 requirements for developing first grant applications. Start-up funds are available for conferences
 and networking. During the assessment period, 23 School staff competed NLP and 6 have
 subsequently been promoted. 14 School staff are currently completing NLP.

 2.2.1 Performance and Development Review (PDR), reward and promotion
 All post-probationary staff have an annual PDR. This University scheme was totally updated in
 2017. A supportive one-to-one discussion between the reviewee and a trained reviewer reflects
 on achievements over the past year and agrees objectives across the full range of activities
 including CALIBRE-aligned goals for research and impact activity. New PDR is a transparent
 way to recognise performance exceeding expectations with additional financial reward,
 overseen by a Senior Review Group. In 2019, 97% of staff met or exceeded expectations; 11%
 of female and 8% of male academics received financial rewards. The new scheme has
 particularly benefitted our research staff for whom a rigorous developmental discussion was
 previously sporadic and consideration for reward a rarity.

 The SLT routinely encourages colleagues to apply for promotion and PDR also identifies
 potential candidates. In 2016, the University revised the criteria for academic promotion
 (Senior Lecturer and Reader / Professor), to ensure that the research components align with the
 University Strategy and CALIBRE. Evidence for cases can be based on research, teaching,
 enterprise (impact) or any combination to encourage balanced portfolios of work. Promotion
 panels take into account statements from applicants describing how personal circumstances,
 such as caring responsibilities, may have affected their profile. Since REF2014, 28 colleagues
 have been promoted, 33% identifying as female; the School now has 29 colleagues at
 Professor/Reader level.

 2.2.2 Research and Impact Leave
 Leave is available in the form of School and University Fellowships, providing up to 12 months
 outside regular workload to pursue agreed programmes. 4 staff (3M/1F) have secured 6-9
 months of time devoted to strategic research and impact projects e.g. Dixon to deliver
 commercialisation and impact of the Slope ALARMS research; Price to develop an EPSRC
 Programme Grant; Carrillo to re-invigorate her work in ‘Research 4.0’ after Associate Dean
 terms; and Palmeri to work with international collaborators on design and maintenance of
 infrastructural assets.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3 Doctoral Researchers (DRs)

 We have graduated 221 Doctoral Researchers (200FTE, 66% like-for-like growth on REF2014),
 including 41 jointly supervised with other Loughborough Schools. The table below shows split
 between traditional PhDs (82%) and ‘EngD’ professional doctorates (18%) for each year in the
 assessment period.

     Type   \ Year 2013-14    2014-15   2015-16   2016-17   2017-18   2018-19   2019-20   Total
          PhDs       26.17     20.50     24.58     29.16     19.15     19.00     25.50    164.06
     Prof Doctorates  5.00      4.00      8.50      5.00      6.00      6.50      1.00     36.00
          Total      31.17     24.50     33.08     34.16     25.15     25.50     26.50    200.06

 The 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey reiterated the excellent support we
 provide as we achieved top scores across the University with overall satisfaction at 84.5%
 (nationally overall student satisfaction was 81%). All DRs are provided with a laptop, access to
 laboratory facilities, technician support, and travel and conference funds.

 The School attracts funding to maintain its DR population (c.150 students) via University
 scholarships (56 since 2014), industry funding, UKRI funding, and high-quality self-funded
 students. The funding mix is approximately 36% internal funding, 23% from UKRI and 41% self-
 funders. Of these, 16% received part funding from industry.

 We have an enviable track record of running CDTs, hosting three, with funding from UKRI and
 industry. Our Engineering Doctorate Centre for Innovative and Collaborative Construction
 Engineering (CICE), has trained 36 EngD students (151 since 1999), all co-funded by industry.
 Students spend time embedded within the company, guaranteeing impact and graduating ready
 for industrial R&D. The highly successful ‘LoLo’, London-Loughborough EPSRC CDT in Energy
 Demand, and its successor 'ERBE', EPSRC Centre in Energy Resilience and the Built
 Environment, both joint with UCL, have trained 100 PhD students since 2009, half of whom were
 co-funded by stakeholders. Illustrating our growth in water engineering, our latest CDT is the
 EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Water and Waste Infrastructure and Services Engineered
 for Resilience (Water-WISER), which builds on long-standing collaborations with Leeds and
 Cranfield Universities. Our CDT successes illustrate the regard that students, academic
 collaborators, industry partners and funding bodies have for the research training environment
 that we have created. Further funding comes from Loughborough’s EPSRC DTP (often used to
 match-fund), the NERC ‘CENTA’ DTP, University-funded mini-CDTs and a recently awarded
 Dunhill Medical Trust (£121k) mini-CDT across three Schools.

 Our recruitment policy explicitly encourages applications from all backgrounds through a fair
 and accessible selection process. Our main annual recruitment process deploys ordered
 selection criteria, evaluating applicant strengths, application quality, strategic value to School
 and publication potential. We also consider the use of laboratory equipment and third-party
 funding. All applications are reviewed by a representative academic panel. The Doctoral College
 (DC) runs an induction event for new starters, complemented by School specific inductions.

 Two (occasionally three) supervisors are allocated per student based on expertise, workload,
 inclusivity, and experience. Supervisory arrangements are monitored by the Director of Doctoral
 Programmes (DDP), with quarterly Student-Staff Liaison Committee meetings ensuring any DR-
 related concerns are dealt with promptly. Progress is monitored through (minimum) monthly
 supervisory meetings (recorded on the Co-Tutor online system) and reviewed (alongside
 evolving training needs) biannually by an independent assessor. During the first year of PhD
 studies, there is an initial 6-month review followed by annual reviews, based on a report and viva
 with an independent examiner, at which student progression is decided. Supporting DRs to
 submit within their funded period is a high priority. Completions are prominently celebrated in our
 newsletter and on information screens across the School. The overall quality of our research


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 degree programme is the responsibility of the ADR, with quarterly Boards considering overall
 cohort progression.

 The Doctoral College offers over 200 skills development events annually, following the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework requirements. This includes face-to-face workshops, the
 annual research conference and showcase, and the ‘Café Academique’ forum to debate
 emerging research ideas. DRs can win competitive (paid) placements in the Institute for
 Advanced Studies (IAS) Doctoral Leaders Programme. Further specialist support is available
 from the Mathematics Learning Support Centre, English Language Support Centre, Student
 Advice Centre, and the Careers Network. DRs can access wellbeing support through the DC
 and the School’s Wellbeing Advisor (for issues such as stress, anxiety, bereavement, family or
 relationship issues), as well as the Employee Assistance Programme’s 24/7 confidential
 helpline.

 The School’s open-plan Research Hub facilitates peer-to-peer learning between DRs from
 diverse backgrounds. DRs also benefit from the School’s extensive seminar programme (72
 visiting speakers in this REF period) and our quarterly Doctoral seminars through which students
 present their emerging research ideas. An active Hub Committee helps address concerns for
 DRs and postdoctoral researchers. We take particular pride in offering essential bespoke
 support – beyond mere compliance – that makes a real difference. For example, we organised
 and funded a travelling companion to enable a DR with cerebral palsy to undertake fieldwork in
 Ghana. During the COVID-19 pandemic, bi-weekly online meetings with the DDP and the ADR
 have ensured regular communication. One year 3 DR commented: “My supervisors…were
 extremely supportive … they have been constantly in touch to make sure I am physically and
 mentally ok while away from home.”

 The quality of our support is evidenced in a number of prestigious competitive external and
 internal awards, e.g. Formosa, 2018 L’Oreal-UNESCO award for women in science and the
 winner of the 2018 Regional Falling Walls Lab; McCarthy, the 2017 Ailsa McKay travel grant; del
 Pinto, selection for the 2019 UNESCO International training course and the 2019 Ede and
 Ravenscroft Prize; the Brembilla, 2016 Young Lighter competition finalist; and the Loughborough
 2018 ‘Contribution to Knowledge’ Postgraduate Award.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)

 In line with the University’s ‘Building Excellence’ Strategy, mainstreaming ED&I has been
 fundamental to the School’s vitality, sustainability and success, and resulted in significant
 enhancements:
 • SLT decision-making is now informed by quarterly research activity reports with data
      analysed by protected characteristics e.g. funding applications and awards, PhD
      completions. One recent indicator of success was seen in 18/19 grant applications: 50% of
      applications had female PIs.
 • SLT reviews workload by gender within and across grades and job families to ensure
      fairness.
 • All academic colleagues can apply for SLT roles.
 • Recognition is provided for activities that encourage underrepresented groups into
      engineering and STEM subjects, e.g. participation in International Women’s Day and
      outreach programmes.
 • All School committees are representative, with members from various job families (also
      students), career stages, and diverse backgrounds.
 • The School received an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2017 –renewal currently under
      consideration.
 • Female staff (mid-career) are supported to join the Aurora Leadership Programme
      (Chmutina, Chow, and Ruikar attended in the last three years).

 Within the School, the Director of ED&I (Chmutina) coordinates activities, chairs the ED&I

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Committee (EDIC), leads Athena SWAN planning and is a member of SLT. EDIC, which meets
 quarterly, has representation from all job families and the student population. It implements
 strategies to ensure that staff and students with protected characteristics are fully supported,
 develops inclusive communication strategies, and celebrates our diversity and successes.
 Additionally, specific events are held to better understand the needs of colleagues with protected
 characteristics and how they can be supported (e.g. regular meetings for female colleagues to
 explore better support for their career development). The School takes an intersectional,
 inclusive approach to ED&I events and training, with all staff now completing mandatory
 Respecting Diversity and Unconscious Bias training.

 Our commitment to ED&I is mirrored in our recruitment strategy. The proportion of shortlisted
 candidates identifying as female far exceeds the proportion amongst our existing staff; since
 2016, 8% of female applicants were offered a job (5% male); the proportion of female lecturers
 has increased from 14% in 2014 to 40% in 2019, providing the foundation for a higher proportion
 of women in senior positions in coming years. The proportion of BAME appointments has also
 increased from 16% in 2014 to 21% in 2019.

 Flexible and remote working is supported, subject to agreement with the Dean, to promote
 and support wellbeing. Remote working is facilitated via the VPN (with secure multifactor
 authentication) that provides access to all University online resources. Our supporting
 infrastructure has eased the transition to effective home working during the COVID-19
 pandemic.

 Colleagues preparing for maternity or adoption leave are supported to attend classes and
 appointments. We undertake risk assessments for pregnant women, particularly if they work in
 the labs or in other hazardous environments, and involve our occupational health team if
 adjustments might prove beneficial. University funding is available to cover colleagues taking
 family leave, and those on leave can take up to ten Keeping-in-Touch days to attend meetings or
 important events during their leave. Towards the end of their leave, staff meet the Dean to
 discuss a flexible return to work where required and, whenever possible, workloads are reduced
 for returners during the first 12 months.

 The School recently introduced a ‘Carer Grant’ which contributes towards any additional caring
 costs, enabling colleagues to undertake professional development activities. Fourteen of our
 colleagues have trained to become certified mental health first aiders to signpost relevant
 services. The Wellbeing Advisor provides support to staff and research students. The
 University Counselling Service is available for emergency meetings and long-term treatment.
 The University also subscribes to the Employee Assistance Programme providing 24-hour
 telephone counselling and repeated sessions for staff with complex issues.

 2.5 Equality and Diversity in REF Submission

 The University Research Committee created the REF Code of Practice (CoP) Working Group
 in October 2018 with diverse membership, which included Cook from our School. All submission
 preparations were conducted in accordance with the CoP and subject to Equality Impact
 Assessments. Our School REF committee and working groups comprised 9 members (2
 female): the Associate Dean for Research (responsible for research strategy), the Dean, two
 previous and current panel members, our Director of Academic Staffing and Development, our
 Director of ED&I, the Associate Dean for Enterprise (responsible for enterprise strategy and
 impact), the Research Development Manager, and the Partnership Development Manager. All
 members underwent REF-specific Equality and Diversity training.

 All School academics contributed to the peer review of outputs, which led to our final
 submission, ensuring maximum diversity and inclusion. Output quality assessment was already
 firmly embedded within the School before REF2021 preparations began. Our outputs selection
 and assessment processes were fully in line with Loughborough’s Responsible Metrics Policy.


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 To ensure fair, consistent and transparent selection, we identified outputs that convey the
 most original, significant and rigorous work produced by the School’s current or former staff. Our
 School submission was subject to Equality Impact Assessments, considering gender, maternity
 leave, ethnicity and ECR status, which revealed no bias.

 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 3.1 Research Funding and Strategies

 Holding significant research funding is the only way we can deliver solutions to the national and
 international challenges that drive our research. We target a variety of sources and have an
 exceptional record of winning competitive peer-reviewed funding. This is attributable to
 comprehensive support for developing proposals, including costing, developing industry links to
 facilitate application and exploitation, internal peer review, support for responses to reviewers,
 and mock interview panels. As part of the mainstreaming of ED&I throughout the School, the
 Director of ED&I acts on specific personal challenges to pursuit of funding (e.g. caring
 responsibilities). In line with strategy objective 2 (Provide bespoke support for colleagues to
 enhance research quality), we are currently developing a programme of short-term study leave
 (up to 1 month) for such colleagues.

 Our £48.0M portfolio comprised 275+ projects active over the REF period: Research
 Councils 63%, UK Government 10%, Stakeholders (industry, charities) 18% and Others (inc. EU
 and overseas) 9%. This consists of: £27.9M for projects; £14.9M for doctoral training centres
 (CICE £5.8M, Lo-Lo/ERBE £7.7M and Water-WISER £1.4M); £1.9M other support for doctoral
 training including industry sponsorship; £840k for impact acceleration activities; and £2.5M for
 specialist equipment and estates upgrade.

 An additional £3.6M of funding has already been awarded for projects starting between Aug-
 2020 and Dec-2020. These new awards, combined with notable recent successes (e.g. our two
 CDTs, the UKCRIC National Facility for Advanced Infrastructure Construction and the UK Centre
 for Postdoctoral Development in Infrastructure, Cities and Energy), underpin our plans for the
 next 5 years (REF5b§1.4). The strategic importance of our grant portfolio to our ambitions under
 the three research themes is set out below. We emphasise major and prestigious awards, the
 importance of research consortia to our portfolio, and grants that have led to the impacts
 selected as ICSs.

 Sustainable Built Environment
 Our research on energy demand in dwellings attracts funding from the UKRI (EPSRC and
 Innovate UK), Government (BEIS), EU and industry partners to deliver a £4.36M portfolio of
 projects including:
 • Low Effort Energy Demand Reduction and Methods and Metrics for Moisture Risk
     Assessment.
 • The UK’s largest concentration of EPSRC Transforming Energy Demand through Digital
     Innovation (TEDDI) projects: DEFACTO, Digital Energy Feedback and Control Technology
     Optimisation; Hot Water Provision in Homes, Consumption, Storage and Lifestyle; REFIT,
     Personalised Retrofit Decision Support Tools for UK Homes using Smart Home Technology.
 • Leadership of the TEDDINet network.
 Primary data sets gathered in these projects enabled research into summertime overheating in
 homes and the subsequent impact (ICS REF§5b1.3). Projects in support of policy initiatives to
 reduce domestic energy demand are supported by government and include Technical
 Evaluation of SMETER Technologies and Demonstration of Energy Efficiency Potential. Our
 longstanding research into the quality of the internal environment and daylight led to new
 Daylight Standards (ICS REF§5b1.3).

 Our strategy is also advanced by £1.68M of research projects on management and control of
 energy in buildings using digital technology. Howard (Excellence100 appointment) has given


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 impetus to this research by securing an EPSRC Innovation Fellowship to work full time on
 FlexTECC: Flexible Timing of Energy Consumption in Communities. This complements other
 energy management and flexibility research: SCENe, Smart Community Energy Network
 (Innovate UK) and Energy-efficient buildings flexibly connected (EU), Design4Energy (EU).

 We have used our enhanced research base to progress new activity into comfort and internal
 environments in Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs), funded by £690k from the UKRI
 GCRF, British Council and British Academy. The lives of some of the world’s most marginalised
 peoples will be enhanced by projects into: Low Energy Cooling and Ventilation for Indian
 Residences (LECaVIR); Reducing Global Energy Use in Buildings while Improving Occupant
 Comfort and Well-being; and Low Carbon Climate-responsive Heating and Cooling of Cities.

 Our recognised experts in building energy and the internal environment received £2.44M
 prestigious stakeholder funding to address industry challenges. Examples include working with
 Kingfisher PLC, owners of DIY stores across the world (e.g. B&Q), to develop New Energy
 Efficient Products, and with Mitsubishi to enhance Energy Management of Heat Pumps in
 Europe and to improve Indoor Environmental Quality by Leveraging Advanced IEQ systems.

 Funding supported two ICSs: summertime overheating used data sets from BuildTEDDI projects
 and daylighting standards built on projects funded by EPSRC, Arup and CIBSE (ICS,
 REF5b§1.3).

 Resilient Infrastructure
 Of strategic importance is our UKCRIC founder member status (BEIS, £138M, Thorpe leads at
 Loughborough) and associated activities. Working with a consortium of UK Universities,
 including UKCRIC partners, and stakeholders (20+), we research deterioration of geotechnical
 infrastructure in a changing climate, with funding of £1.26M. We lead one of three challenges in
 the EPSRC Programme Grant - Assessment, Costing and Enhancement of Long Life, Long
 Linear Asset (ACHILLES), and were instrumental in delivering its predecessor - Infrastructure
 Slopes Sustainable Management and Resilience Assessment (iSMART). Outputs are influencing
 design (HS2) and the operation of linear assets (e.g. Network Rail). Complementary research to
 develop new sensors to monitor landslides and buried infrastructure is advanced through
 Smith’s EPSRC Fellowship, his Leverhulme Prize and EPSRC IAA funding, leading to impact on
 slope monitoring (ICS REF5b§1.3).

 Our Engineering Doctorate Centre (CICE) is an important driver for research on resilience of
 structural and geotechnical systems. Industry co-funds and co-creates many of our doctoral
 projects. Working across the School’s discipline boundaries, EPSRC First Grants, Innovate
 KTPs and industry funding, totalling £920k, have allowed us to address a range of industry
 challenges, including: modelling and design practice for structural systems; advanced
 construction methods in modular housing; asset condition evaluation for corrosion damage;
 maintenance management of drainage systems; performance of rail track; durability of materials;
 sustainability of materials and designs; earthworks deterioration; and blast response of
 structures.

 Research on safe mobility has produced impact (ICS, REF5b§1.3) and attracted £780k of
 funding from the EPSRC and stakeholders (Highways England), for projects including: Social
 Level Impacts of Connected Autonomous Vehicles; Estimation of a Risk Profile to Operatives
 and the Public from Motorway Hard Shoulder Incursions; and Assessing the impact of Intelligent
 Mobility on Traffic Performance. Wider transport policy and practice is informed though £370k of
 research on travel planning and parking behaviour, including: Using Novel sensing Techniques
 to Enhance Rail Services; Collaborative Highway Engineering to provide Optimisation and Best
 Value; and Virgin Park and Charge. These projects engage our urban planning and transport
 disciplines.




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our strategy in response to international need has been to expand flood risk and management
 research, achieved through the Excellence100 appointments of Liang and Xia. Interdisciplinary
 projects funded by NERC (including GCRF), EPSRC and the UK Met Office total £2.19M and
 include:
 • Flood Prediction using Real-time Sensing;
 • FUTURE-DRAINAGE: Ensemble Climate Change Rainfall Estimates for Sustainable
     Drainage;
 • Web-Based Natural Dam-Burst Flood Hazard Assessment and Forecasting System;
 • Impact Scenario Modelling for Risk-based Flood Warning in India;
 • Valuing the Benefits of Blue/green Infrastructure for Flood Resilience.… in Vietnam;
 • Living Deltas Hub.
 We also research disaster risk management, resilience and security of the built environment via
 £540k funding, such as the EU projects, Designing Safer Urban Spaces and Evolving Concepts
 of Security.

 For nearly 50 years our Water Engineering and Development Centre (WEDC) has researched
 sanitation and waste management to improve lives in LMICs. This has been sustained with
 £3.96M project funding from the EPSRC, ESRC, The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and
 DFID. Projects include: Reinventing the toilet; Promotion of Faecal Waste Flow Diagrams; and
 Building Innovative Delivery Systems for Water, Sanitation and Energy in Urban Africa. Our
 funding from DFID acknowledges our expertise in water, sanitation and hygiene in South Asia.
 WEDC are partners in a new Centre addressing climate, resilience, energy and environment,
 hosted by the School of Social Sciences and Humanities and underpinned by a significant
 (£35M) grant.

 A £1.13M group of projects on energy from waste, addresses energy poverty, health and waste
 management, and includes an RAEng Development Research Fellowship to Afolabi for
 Advanced Technological Synergy for Renewable Energy Production in sub-Saharan Africa. This
 builds on British Council funding for Community Scale, Decentralised Anaerobic Digestion for
 Energy …… and Technical Integration of Sustainable Energy and Water, plus EPSRC-funded
 Rural Hybrid Energy Enterprise Systems, among others.

 Digital Transformation
 Our digital manufacturing research on 3D concrete printing (3DCP), a technology invented at
 Loughborough, has shaped the international research landscape for large-scale additive
 manufacturing for construction. This research has been advanced with Buswell’s UKRI
 ‘Research Leadership’ award via the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (£1.13M) and EPSRC
 and Innovate UK projects of £1.15M: CAMBER - Concrete Additive Manufacturing for the Built
 Environment using Robotics; Developing an Industrial 3DCP cell; Design-for-manufacture of 3D
 Concrete Printed Structural Composites; MMC, Digital and Whole-life Performance; and
 Manufacturing Integrated Building Components using Digital Hybrid Concrete Printing
 Technology. Impact includes a start-up company, Concrenetics, to embed the technology into
 the concrete precast industry.

 Working at the confluence of architecture, management and building energy, our digital practices
 research has focussed on three-dimensional representation of the built environment. EPSRC
 funding of £1.53M, including ‘Transforming Construction’ funds, has delivered:
 • Digital Enablers for Construction Transformation;
 • ‘Thinking Inside the Box’: A Mixed Reality Development Platform for Co-creating Energy
    Efficient Retail Spaces;
 • The Bicester Eco-town Process Improvement Toolkit;
 • The Dementia House;
 • Enabling Real-time Digital Fabrication Methods for Co-production.
 Royal Society and HEIF funds support work on Building Information Modelling (BIM)
 technologies, and Gibb’s Chair in Complex Project Management was funded by the RAEng.


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Construction safety research continues to have impact. The Institution of Occupational Safety
 and Health funded projects totalling £890k include: Nanotechnology – Implications for
 Construction; Management of OSH in Networked Systems of Production or Service Delivery;
 SME & Micro Organisations' Engagement with Occupational Safety & Health; and Learning from
 Longitudinal Research on Large, Complex Multi ‐Site Construction – the latter in partnership with
 Thames Tideway Tunnel. Further impact stems from our long-standing Healthcare facilities
 research (ICS REF5b§1.3), assisted by an EPSRC IAA Activity Acuity Adaptability Flow
 Emergency Departments project.

 Waste management research has been propelled by EU and EPSRC projects totalling £1.21M,
 culminating in our core involvement in the forthcoming £4M EPSRC Interdisciplinary Circular
 Economy Centre for Mineral-based Construction Materials. The EU projects, Activating Circular
 Services, and ICEBERG: Innovative Circular Economy Based Solutions, will create BIM tools
 and enable digital tracing of materials. In concert with the EPSRC Creative Outreach for
 Resource Efficiency project, these have led to promulgation of the techniques throughout the
 academy, generating measurable impact on practice (ICS REF5b§1.3).

 3.2 Organisational and Operational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 The Research and Enterprise Office (REO) supports our research and impact ambitions with a
 team of 20 staff who alert School staff to funding opportunities, guide staff developing funding
 applications, support costing, develop collaboration agreements, protect IP and know-how, and
 provides legal advice. Our School has a dedicated Research Development Manager (RDM), and
 a Partnership Development Manager. A specialist Fellowship Development Manager in the REO
 works closely with the School RDM to support Fellowship applicants, who are also mentored by
 existing Fellows. Rigorous proposal peer review and interview preparation have resulted in five
 Fellowship successes.

 Laboratory and field activities are supported by a team of 14 highly skilled technical staff to
 design, build and operate research facilities. The quality of this support is exemplified by Darwin,
 who was Highly Commended in the national Papin Awards 2019, which recognise and
 excellence among Technicians in Higher Education.

 Delivering our strategy requires continued vigilance to identify emerging global research
 challenges and funding opportunities. Senior staff, in particular, are expected and supported to
 take external leadership roles and collaborate with the very best academic groups, bringing back
 insights that can be shared with colleagues. Loughborough’s Institute of Advanced Studies
 assists with our engagements with world-leading academics and the School has taken a leading
 role in its programmes on ‘Water’ and ‘Nation’.

 An important facet of our strategy has been developing a new research cluster in advanced
 infrastructure construction, linking our established work on novel infrastructure materials and
 techniques with opportunities emerging from Digital Transformation research. The
 Excellence100 appointments of Cavalaro and Blanco, coupled with award of Buswell’s
 Fellowship, led directly to our securing of the UKCRIC National Facility for Advanced
 Infrastructure Construction (NFAIC), the award of a substantial EPSRC grant to expand our 3D
 concrete printing facilities, and the conception of Centre for Postdoctoral Development in
 Infrastructure, Cities and Energy (C-DICE). This unique combination of research expertise,
 advanced facilities and researcher skills development has been created to deliver outputs of the
 highest quality and global impact.

 3.3 Physical Infrastructure and Facilities Supporting Research and Impact

 Building on our REF2014 top-ranked research environment, we have continued to invest in
 estates and specialist equipment. Our purpose-built 3000m2 laboratory houses the equipment,
 machines and test facilities needed to advance our building energy, structures, materials,


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 geotechnics, geomatics, visualisation, and digital fabrication research. A wide range of
 economic, policy and health impacts draw upon our physical infrastructure: studies for industry
 partners in our advanced hygrothermal performance facility, employing our pre-eminence in 3D
 concrete printing to establish new construction facilities, and Highways England utilising our
 processing/interpretation of national data sets on traffic accidents to improve road safety.
 Continued enhancement of our research infrastructure places us in a strong position to respond
 to global challenges and national initiatives.

 During this REF period, we have invested £2.5M in our infrastructure estate and facilities,
 comprising £2.1M for the purchase of advanced equipment and £450k for refurbishment.
 Refurbishment works support our strategic decision to grow the Digital Transformation theme
 and, specifically, to establish architecture. Works also included refurbishment of the water tower
 that feeds our hydraulics flumes and flood models. Strategic investments in this REF period are
 as follows.

 Sustainable Built Environment: In support of our aim to understand and improve building
 performance, we have invested £590k in new facilities funded by EPSRC and Department of
 Energy & Climate Change. This includes commissioning an advanced hygrothermal
 performance facility for studying thermal and moisture performance of building constructions at
 scale; acquisition, refurbishment and instrumentation of six test houses; field monitoring
 equipment; and equipment for thermal comfort, particle image velocimetry and tracer gas
 experiments. These investments complement our existing daylighting suite, fluids laboratory
 (including a large brine facility for modelling buoyancy-driven natural ventilation) and thermal
 comfort chamber.

 Resilient Infrastructure: We have recently received £1.3M, primarily competitive EPSRC
 capital equipment funding, supplemented by University funding. Foremost is the EPSRC award
 to establish our UKCRIC NFAIC, which delivers:
 • a full-scale, automated, flexible mould, controlled by 100 actuators;
 • a 200m2 simulator, including a high-accuracy tracking system to assess small- and large-
     scale construction processes;
 • equipment to support work on modern methods of inspection and renovation;
 • a high payload drone system with a suite of long-distance assessment tools; and
 • a near-surface automated cell and rig for the autonomous repair of loaded components.
 As a national facility, we encourage use of these facilities for collaborative projects with UKCRIC
 partners, other academic institutions and for stakeholder-funded projects.

 In addition, we have purchased the following advanced equipment:
 • sensors for field infrastructure health monitoring observatories;
 • two robotic survey total stations;
 • a high load structures testing system;
 • a shear device for testing soil construction elements; and
 • a remote sensing vibrometer.
 This equipment is employed in our large-scale static and dynamic heavy structures testing
 facility and at field test sites. This investment has also funded elemental and mercury analysers
 for water quality evaluation, and a new GPU-based high-performance computer for hydrological
 flood risk modelling.

 Digital Transformation: We have acquired new buildings and extended and remodelled studio
 and digital fabrication space, totalling 1,290m 2, in support of our strategy to embed architecture
 in the School. Investment of £190k funded upgrading the Freeform 3D concrete printing facility
 (e.g., space upgrade and purchase of two robotic arms), and equipping a visualisation suite.
 Investment in the UKCRIC facilities also benefits Digital Transformation research, integrating the
 new robotic cells for 3D printing and spraying (various materials), including a robotic
 manipulation and jet spraying cell.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Supporting all three themes, we capitalise on the University’s £3.5M high-performance computer
 cluster – one of the country’s fastest – deploying it for computational fluid dynamics and
 turbulence modelling associated with building ventilation, flood risk and infrastructure resilience
 research.

 3.4 Specialist and Shared Research Infrastructure and Facilities

 Of our specialist infrastructure and facilities, the following are unique in the UK:
 • UKCRIC NFAIC
 • Freeform 3D concrete printing facility
 • Hygrothermal performance facility
 • Family of slope sensor field test sites
 • Six test houses instrumented to study occupancy/building performance.
 The School is fully committed to regional and national collaborations to promote and coordinate
 the sharing of research facilities.

 Examples where we gain value from enhanced access include: £138M of unique UKCRIC
 facilities for studies of infrastructure design and performance; national engineered slope
 observatories through the ACHILLES programme grant; and a host of energy-related resources
 and facilities across the Energy Research Accelerator consortium.

 3.5 Significance of Major Benefits-in-kind

 Through our extensive network of industry partners, we gain added value from access to data
 sets, buildings, construction projects and national infrastructure at sites that otherwise would be
 closed to research. Research, impact activity and outputs in all three themes are underpinned by
 privileged access to, for example, our use of English Housing Survey data to inform energy
 demand in buildings, site access to rail, road and flood structures to study deterioration, and
 hospital expenditure data for insights into facility design and maintenance. Although difficult to
 quantify, the benefits are transformational.

 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND
 SOCIETY

 4.1 Supporting Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 Our multi-disciplinary work flourishes from dynamic interactions with industry partners and long-
 standing, stable international relationships with world-leading Universities. Collaborations with
 e.g. Stanford (30 years), New South Wales, Hong Kong University (>25), MIT and Georgia
 Technology (17) and UC Berkeley (12) have resulted in collaborative projects, such as the
 Global Innovation Initiative grant with UCB and CEPT (India). Our staff actively participate in
 collaboration-building initiatives and have co-authored over 1100 journal articles in this REF
 period, 40% of which are with international institutions.

 A variety of mechanisms support the establishment and maintenance of collaborations, networks
 and partnerships. At School level, all staff have a discretionary fund, which permits travel to
 meet collaborators. Our RDM and senior staff support earlier career academics, who can access
 seed-corn funding, travel grants and guidance to initiate new collaborations. Sometimes ECRs
 win small, but potentially career-changing, travel grants, e.g.: Marjoribanks, GB Sasakawa
 Foundation, collaboration with Kyoto University; and Chmutina, Daiwa Foundation, Ritsumeikan
 University, Japan. At University level, the Built Environment Beacon instigates cross-campus
 bridges between diverse academics, with ring-fenced funds enabling pump-priming and proof-of-
 concept studies. The Beacon helps corral academic collaborators and industry partners, and this
 has been a factor in ten GCRF grants via the NERC, DFID and the British Council. Senior staff
 have undertaken missions to leading research universities in China, India and Singapore and
 ETH Zurich to expand our worldwide profile. The University’s Fellowship scheme has enabled

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 staff to work with leading overseas academics, including TU Delft, the University of Athens,
 Penn State, Stanford and UC Berkeley. These initiatives, the University’s visiting academics
 scheme, and the Institute of Advanced Studies have brought over 70 academics from 24
 countries to our School in this REF cycle. They present lectures and run workshops, enriching
 our research environment. Together these mechanisms enable a multitude of individual
 collaborations as well as our active participation in, and leadership of, major networks regionally,
 nationally and internationally.

 Regionally, the Energy Global Challenge positioned the University as a partner in the Energy
 Research Accelerator (ERA), a joint initiative comprising the Midlands’ eight research-intensive
 universities (in the ‘Midlands Innovation’ partnership) and the British Geological Survey. ERA
 creates a powerful voice promoting the region’s world-class energy research capability and the
 School led the development of its Doctoral Academy. With ERA partners from the Universities of
 Nottingham and Birmingham, the School (Lomas) leads the Midlands’ contribution (integration of
 PV and heat storage technologies into active buildings) to UKRI’s £36M Active Building Centre
 (10 HEIs, led by Swansea).

 Nationally, we consolidated our UKCRIC founder-member status (13 HEI partners led by UCL)
 e.g. through NFAIC and PLEXUS (Priming Laboratory EXperiments on infrastructure and Urban
 Systems), stimulating inter-laboratory working across UKCRIC. The combination of our UKCRIC
 and ERA activities, particularly our leadership of the ERA Doctoral Academy, was the foundation
 for the Centre for Postdoctoral Development in Infrastructure, Cities and Energy (C-DICE),
 UKRI’s largest ever investment in postdoctoral training. Under the School’s leadership (Dainty),
 C-DICE unites 18 HEIs from the UKCRIC and ERA consortia working at the vanguard of
 infrastructure, cities and energy research in the region, supported by twelve industry and
 government partners.

 We have initiated and now lead new multi-institution consortia, e.g. the BuildTEDDI network (22
 Universities) and joined others’ collaborations, e.g. the Smart Energy Research Laboratory (7
 Universities) and the Future Urban Ventilation Network (11 Universities). Two of our CDTs are
 collaborative: WaterWiser, with Leeds and Cranfield Universities; and ERBE with UCL and the
 13 Irish research institutions in the MaREI Research Centre.

 Internationally, Richards’ AHRC-funded DELOS Network includes academics from 33
 institutions in 9 countries studying ‘contemporary concerns about demographic pressures
 and environmental sustainability’. Colleagues internationalise their research by joining
 established collaborations, such as International Energy Agency (IEA) Annex 79, ‘Occupant-
 centric building Design’ and IEA Annex 71, ‘Building energy performance assessment’ for which
 we provided data from our matched-pair test houses to 50 research teams in 13 countries. Staff
 participate in nine EU projects collaborating with 115 partners in 28 countries; ‘ICEBERG’ is a
 €15M consortium of 35 EU partners. The School is also part of the prestigious UNITECH
 network of leading Engineering Universities in Europe (including Chalmers University of
 Technology; RWTH Aachen; and Politecnico Di Milano, amongst others) and multi-national
 corporate partners (including Hilti, Buhler, ABB and Evonik). This network facilitates exchanges
 and collaboration between students, staff members and engineering industry. Through this
 network, El-Hamalawi won an EU grant collaborating with INSA-Lyon and TU-Delft to deliver a
 pan industry/university training course for DRs to hone transferable skills gained during their
 PhD.

 4.2 Interaction and Engagement with Research Beneficiaries

 In line with strategy objective 5 (Maximise impact by developing more effective impact pathways
 and exploiting commercial opportunities), we endeavour to build symbiotic relationships with
 research beneficiaries.

 We have created forums that enable potential users to ensure our research addresses pressing


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 social, economic and technical challenges. In 2003, Thorpe co-founded COMIT (Construction,
 Operation & Maintenance through Innovative Technology), which today links 95 technology
 providers and construction organisations with Loughborough and 7 other universities. COMIT
 promotes effective use of IT and has developed BIM, Digital Twins and drones guidance.

 The Advisory Boards of our three CDTs help shape and steer the School’s doctoral research
 portfolio and provide contact with potential co-funding project partners. The Boards comprise
 over 30 diverse organisations, representing the breadth of our stakeholder community: central
 government (BEIS, MHCLG); health and well-being (PHE, DHSC); energy suppliers (E.ON,
 EDF); digital technology (Passiv Systems, Simble); construction (Cundall, Galliford Try);
 materials (Knauf); consultancy (Arup, AECOM); water industry (Scottish Water, Severn Trent);
 professional institutions (RICS, CIBSE); and charities (NEF, Age UK).

 Our extensive network of collaborators work with us in a spirit of co-production to realise
 immediate tangible benefits. Senior stakeholders are engaged as Visiting Professors (VPs) by
 the School (19 since 2014), of whom Caroline Field (ARUP), David Williams (WSP) and Darren
 Woolf (Hoare Lea) were part-funded by the RAEng. Our knowledgeable partners co-create new
 research projects, provide direct (REF5b§3.1) and in-kind funding (REF5b§3.5), and provide
 direct routes to impact. For example, of the ten most recent UKRI projects with partners’
 contributions, 83 partners provided £186k of cash and in-kind contributions to the research. The
 in-kind contributions such as data, access and knowledge can be unique and invaluable. Since
 2014, our enterprise work with stakeholders has secured income of £3M from 82 organisations.
 Some projects involve multiple stakeholders, for example in TEST (BEIS, £335k) we coordinated
 the contributions of nine energy technology companies.

 The surplus from such commercial work provides unfettered funds to enable bridging of
 postdoctoral researchers between contracts, pump-priming of ideas, and equipment purchase.
 Consultancy and research with industry partners has provided a legacy of equipment and
 facilities. Of note are our four test houses and associated controls and monitoring equipment –
 purchased for our Kingfisher project (REF5b§3.1) – and our hygrothermal test facility funded by
 BEIS (REF5b§3.3). These facilities have since supported work by nine DRs and five postdocs.

 In this REF period, around 50% of our graduated PhD and EngD students benefitted from
 industry co-funding. Collaborators co-supervise and host our students, and provide advice and
 guidance, enhancing the training experience and providing an impact pathway. In addition to co-
 funded CDT students, the BRE Trust funded five PhD students, and three EngD students were
 funded by HS2, amongst others.

 4.3 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Outside the selected ICSs, additional significant contributions to society, the economy and
 health and well-being have been made.

 Nationally, our diverse and curiosity-driven research addresses some intractable and nationally-
 significant issues, not always in our core research areas: Knife crime - turning mobile phones
 into portable knife-detecting scanners (DSTL, El-Hamalawi); retail sustainability - saving TESCO
 >£4M pa in energy through no-cost reduction strategies (EPSRC, Dainty); heritage preservation
 - space remodelling at Ickworth House preventing art work/furnishing deterioration (National
 Trust, Mardaljevic); sport - sustainable artificial pitch maintenance (EPSRC/Innovate, Fleming);
 wind farm design (E.ON, Cook); climate inequality (BEIS, Lomas); fuel poverty (public utilities,
 Loveday); living with dementia (EPSRC, Cook, Price, Glass).

 Internationally, our world-leading energy research in LMICs has expanded substantially e.g. the
 REFIT (British Council) and LECaVIR (EPSRC) projects are improving indoor health in hot
 countries whilst our flooding and landslide research is enhancing community resilience in
 Myanmar and Malaysia. Perhaps our best-known international contribution is the outstanding 50-


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 year record of the Water Engineering and Development Centre (WEDC) and its practical
 fieldwork to improve the lives of marginalised people in LMICs. Underpinned by a portfolio of 16
 sanitation, water supply and flooding grants (REF5b§3.1), WEDC staff have: developed
 monitoring and evaluation frameworks, and conducted research, for two phases of Plan
 International’s £38M South Asia WASH Result Programme to deliver improved water and
 sanitation to millions of people in Bangladesh and Pakistan; assessed the institutional capacity
 of the Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Authority, Bangladesh; and assisted the National
 Water and Sewerage Corporation of Uganda to enhance the livelihoods of slum dwellers in
 Kampala. Such projects have entailed collaborations with 55 research organisations,
 governments, regional authorities, and international NGO’s.

 4.4 Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics

 Staff and DRs proactively disseminate research outcomes to reach diverse audiences.
 Mainstream media: TV presentations - e.g. BBC/ITV News, Off-site housing (Goodier), flooding
 in the region (Bosher); BT Sport/Rugby Tonight, Artificial turf and injury (Fleming); Discovery
 Channel/Daily Planet, Slope stability (Dixon, Smith); CNN, Hurricanes (Chmutina); Uganda TV,
 Water supply (Kayaga). Radio interviews - e.g. BBC Radio4/You and Yours, Overheating
 (Lomas).
 Social media: Tweets, Podcasts and YouTube content are created to widen interest in our
 research. Notably, Chmutina hosts a weekly ‘Disasters: Deconstructed Podcast’ (over 32,000
 downloads since Jun-2019) and holds a British Academy outreach grant.
 Print Media: Our research is increasingly recognised and recommunicated. Since 2014, our
 research has featured in the FT, Telegraph, Guardian, local media, and niche publications, e.g.
 ‘Insurance News’, ‘MedicalXpress’.
 Role models: Twelve staff and several DRs have enthused audiences in schools and other
 public settings with their research. For example: Palmeri and Lombardo established and judged
 the secondary school ‘Tower Tech. Challenge’ for the ‘3M Young Innovators Challenge’;
 architecture staff engaged pupils in two schools to design outdoor learning spaces, with one
 subsequently built. To captivate wider audiences our DRs regularly join the STEM Ambassadors
 scheme, HEFCE’s National Collaborative Outreach Programme and Loughborough’s annual
 ‘Engineering Experience’. Our DRs and postdoctoral researchers’ ‘Bright Club’ comedy nights in
 local hostelries were especially memorable!

 4.5 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Many staff have contributed to the development of professional guidelines and standards: Cook
 contributes to Part F of the English Building Regulations and ASHRAE Standard 62.1 -
 Ventilation (international); McLeod sat on the Building Regulations Advisory Committee working
 party on Overheating in Buildings; Mardaljevic was the UK principal expert developing EU
 CEN/TC 169 WG11 - Daylighting; Ruikar sat on the development committee for BS8644 -
 Management of Fire Safety Information; Austin is a member and former chair of CEN
 TC104/WG11 - Fibres for Concrete, as well as a Member of BSI Working Group B/517/WG10 -
 Sprayed Concrete; and Osmani is the panel chair of BS 8895 Parts 1 to 4 - Material Resource
 Efficiency in Building Projects.

 Staff also contribute to advisory panels and professional associations: Gibb is a member of the
 industry steering group for the implementation of the Hackitt report on the Grenfell Tower
 disaster; Price was a member of the DoH Estates and Facilities Productivity Think Tank; Goodier
 gave evidence to the government committee into modern methods of construction; Osmani
 chairs the Construction Industry Research and Information Association (CIRIA) Sustainability
 Advisory Panel: Thorpe and Dainty are former chairs of the Association of Researchers in
 Construction Management (ARCOM), whilst Chow and Soetanto are current board members.

 Given our close association with the professional institutions, the School often hosts their
 regional and national meetings and has been pleased to provide a venue for presentations by


                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 incoming Institute Presidents: Stephen Lisk and John Field, CIBSE Presidents; Bjarne Olesen
 and Tim Wentz, ASHRAE Presidents; and Bill Bahnfleth, ASHRAE Vice President.

 We host international, national and local conferences and workshops to unite academics and
 research users. Since 2014, colleagues have hosted nine international conferences/workshops
 at Loughborough, for example: Howard hosted the 5th Building Simulation and Optimization
 Conference of the International Building Performance and Simulation Association (IBPSA)
 England, which attracted 100 delegates from 15 countries; Mardaljevic the 17 th International
 Radiance workshop, 60 delegates from 17 countries; and Richards the third DELOS workshop.
 WEDC organise their renowned annual conferences, the 38th (2015) and 40th (2017) which had
 over 400 participants, 250 from overseas, were in LU and others since 2014 were in Vietnam,
 Ghana and Kenya.

 4.6 Indicators of Wider Influence and Recognition

 In line with strategy objective 1 (Reinforce our global reputation for integrated built environment
 research), staff are encouraged to engage in external activities. Their influence and recognition
 are evidenced here through their work for funding bodies, at conferences, and with the leading
 journals, and finally by the awards they receive.

 Shaping the funding landscape
 Virtually all staff act as reviewers for one or more of the UKRI funding councils as well as for the
 Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation, British Council, Royal Society and the Wellcome Trust.
 Nine staff have sat on UKRI prioritisation and evaluation panels. Invitations to review for
 overseas research funding bodies attests to the international recognition of our staff e.g., Natural
 Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Hong Kong Research Grant Council,
 US Department of Agriculture, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research; Academy of
 Finland Natural Sciences and Engineering Research, and the European Union (Horizon 2020).
 Notable and influential contributions are made by Thorpe, Deputy Chair of the REF2021 UoA
 C13 sub-panel and a member of the Hong Kong RAE2020 Built Environment panel; Lomas, who
 was Deputy Convenor of the Hong Kong RAE and Buswell and Lomas who were invited to join
 EPSRC collaboration panels in India and China. Thorpe and Lomas were also members of the
 REF2014 Built Environment Panel.

 Conference leadership and keynote lectures
 Since 2014, staff have co-organised conferences in the USA, Italy, China and the UK and over
 30 colleagues have chaired conference sessions related to our three themes, e.g.:
 • Sustainable Built Environment – IBPSA 2017 (San Francisco) and 2019 (Rome), ASHRAE
    Winter Conf, 2020, and Building Simulation and Optimization, 2020 (online);
 • Resilient Infrastructure – Smart Infrastructure and Construction, UK, 2019, Building
    Resilience, Portugal, 2019, International Conference on Building Resilience, 2018, Lisbon
    and WEDC conferences in 2016 (Ghana) and 2018 (Kenya);
 • Digital Transformation – Construction, Operation & Maintenance through Innovation
    Technology, London, 2019 and ICT in Design, Newcastle, 2019.

 Over 60 keynote or invited lectures have been delivered at international conferences since 2014.
 Keynotes include: Palaiologou, UNESCO conference, New Delhi, 2018; Goodier, International
 Conference on Sustainable Construction, Vietnam, 2014; Bosher, 8th (i-Rec) Conference on
 Post-disaster reconstruction, Toronto, 2015; Dixon, GeoAmericas Conf., Miami, 2016; Chmutina,
 International colloquium on nature-based solutions for water management, Mexico, 2020; Liang,
 Geo-disaster reduction, Chengdu, 2016; Palmeri, 1st ECCOMAS Thematic Conference on
 Uncertainty Quantification, 2017, Greece; Mardaljevic, New York Green Building Conf. 2017;
 Fleming, Sports Engineering, Rajathan, 2017; Osmani, Unlocking the potential of modern
 technologies, Dubai, 2018; Ruikar, Digital Transformation in UK AECO Sector, India, 2020; and
 Buswell, Digital Concrete, Zurich, 2018.



                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Journal Editorship
 All colleagues referee for international peer-reviewed journals in their field. As recognition of
 expertise and influence in their fields, staff have edited 15 journal special issues, e.g.:
 Overheating in buildings: lessons from research, Building Research and Information, 2016
 (Lomas); Wind energy structures, Proc. ICE Structures and Buildings, 2019 (Palmeri); and Inter-
 scale transfers and flow topology, Journal of Fluid Dynamics Research, 2016 (Keylock).

 Most significantly, 22 staff have been appointed as editorial board members for journals across
 our three themes. Our recognised world-leaders are the editors, or associate editors, for leading
 built environment journals. Their influence ensures research integrity and shapes the
 international research landscape. Since 2014, staff have edited Construction Management and
 Economics (Dainty), Geo-environmental Disasters (Liang), Advances in Water Resources (co-
 Editor-in-Chief, Sander), Built Environment Project and Asset Management (Hassan) and ICE
 Transport Journal (Frost), and are associate or deputy editors for Water Resources Research
 (Keylock), Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management (Thomson), Lighting
 Research & Technology Journal (Mardaljevic), Science and Technology for the Built
 Environment (Cook), IT in Construction (Ruikar), Environmental Research and Technology
 (Osmani) and the Journal of Hydrology (Liang).

 Awards and Fellowships
 Twenty-three ‘best journal paper’ awards have been won since 2014, including:
 • Mardaljevic, Leon Gaster Award, 2016, Society of Light and Lighting.
 • Gibb, Goodier & Sander, Thomas Howard Medal, 2018, Journal of Construction Materials.
 • Lomas 2016 and Lomas and Allinson 2020, the CIBSE Carter Bronze Medal.
 • Fleming 2016 and Dijkstra & Dixon 2014, Rees Jeffreys Award, ICE Transport;
 • Palmeri, 2016, E. H. Thompson Award, Journal of the Photogrammetric Record.
 • Dainty, Best Paper Award, 2015, Engineering Project Organization Journal.

 Personal awards for longstanding and impactful work have been received by several staff:
 • Dixon, Water Industry’s ‘Most Innovative New Technology of the Year’ Award (2014) for
    research on leak detection in plastic pipes and the ‘Outstanding Innovation 2014 Award’, for
    the most significant contribution to the UK water industry.
 • Smith, ‘ICE Merit Award’ (2015) for development of the slope alarms system and the
    Worshipful Company of Engineer’s ‘Hawley Award for Engineering Innovation’ (2015).
 • Thorpe the ‘William Kemp Award’ of the ICE (2016) for contributions to Civil Engineering in
    the East Midlands.

 Staff have received five competitively-funded Fellowships across all three research themes:
 • Buswell - Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund Transforming Construction Research
    Leadership Fellowship, on ‘Manufacturing integrated building components using digital
    hybrid Concrete Printing (HCP) technology’ (2019-2021, £1.1M).
 • Howard - EPSRC Innovation Fellowship entitled ‘Flexible timing of energy consumption in
    communities’ (2018-2021, £496k).
 • Smith - EPSRC Postdoctoral Fellowship, ‘Listening to Infrastructure’ (2017-2020, £285k).
 • Keylock - RAEng/Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship (2016-17, £53k).
 • Oluwasola - RAEng Development Fellowship, ‘Managing Agric-food chain waste using a
    synergy of conversion technologies’ (2019-2024, £604k).

 The inclusive research and innovation ecosystem that we have created enables those at all
 career stages and from all backgrounds to flourish as contributors to our thematic areas, co-
 creating knowledge with our extensive academic and extra-academic collaborative network, and
 embedding positive, impactful change for the betterment of society.




                                                                                           Page 22
