Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Swansea University

 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 Our unit comprises researchers in the Departments of Political and Cultural Studies
 (PCS) and Media and Communication (MC), both within the College of Arts and Humanities
 (COAH). Our breadth of specialisms incorporates (i) international relations, area studies and
 international development; (ii) comparative politics, including sub-national politics; (iii) political
 communication; and (iv) political and social philosophy. Our research crosses boundaries with
 development studies, media and communication, and philosophy. We are intellectually
 pluralist, use a wide range of quantitative and qualitative research methods, and our
 geographical coverage includes Europe, Asia, Africa, and North America.

 Research Strategy and Achievements

 Our research strategy focused on maintaining world-leading and internationally excellent
 research and impact in our first two areas of specialism, recognised in REF2014. We then
 sought to innovate in the inter-disciplinary area of political communication based on synergies
 established at the start of the census period. Finally, we sought to develop more strongly
 political and social philosophy through staff investment and further staff synergies.

 To achieve internationally excellent and world leading standards in all of these areas
 we were driven by the objectives to:
    1. Facilitate scholarly innovation and achievement
    2. Strengthen collaborative research through national and international partnerships
    3. Increase research income and PhD completions
    4. Deepen research impact through more and stronger external partnerships, and
    5. Strengthen support for inter-disciplinary research, engage with open research and
       deepen research integrity principles.

 Overall, our support of scholarly creativity led to the publication of 13 monographs and 120
 journal articles, maintaining the significant rise achieved in 2014. Our research income
 (£953,218) represented an increase of over 78% compared to REF2014. This included funding
 from UKRI, charities and the private sector. We had 34 PhD completions, representing an
 increase of 45% from REF2014.

 Research Areas, Research Groups and Centres

 We achieved our objectives through developing original research in all our four research
 areas, each supported by research groups and centres. Staff developed synergies both within
 and across these groups/centres, as well as collaborating with staff from other disciplines.
 Our research foci and examples of achievements are given for each area.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Relations, Area Studies, and International Development

 Our research in this area is supported by the International Studies, Conflict and Security
 (ISCAS) research group, founded in 2009. ISCAS is co-convened by a professor and an
 ECR and is open to all staff and PGR students. It holds regular meetings and workshops to
 discuss research ideas and papers, and hosts invited guest speakers.

 Research focused on theories of norm contestation and empirical analyses of norms
 regimes. It included Schmidt’s post-PhD work theorising the normative dynamics of the UN
 Security Council and fundamental norms of the international legal order. Collins and Clarke
 conducted an analysis of norm contestation in Southeast Asia’s evolving ASEAN human rights
 mechanism, funded by the British Academy. Trenta’s ‘Targeted killing’ and ‘Out of the
 Shadows’ (BA Rising Star Engagement Award) projects were concerned with US/UK
 approaches to covert action and state sanctioned assassination. Trenta and Schmidt
 subsequently collaborated on a study of international norms on imminent threat, self-defence,
 and the use of drones.

 We also addressed regional studies and international development, developing human
 security and critical international relations theory. Akcali researched the politics of the
 EU’s semi-periphery and the Arab world. This included a fieldwork project on ‘Diaspora
 business’, funded by the British Institute at Ankara, on Syrian migrant business and community
 politics in Turkey following the 2010s migration. We also contributed to ‘Enablement besides
 constraints’ a Finnish-Norwegian led international project on Arctic security, part-funded by the
 ESRC. Sheehan completed pioneering fieldwork on human security and the Sami.

 Comparative Politics, including Sub-National politics

 Our research in this area is supported by the Political Analysis and Governance (PAG)
 Research Group, also founded in 2009. PAG is co-convened by an associate professor and
 a senior lecturer. Like ISCAS it is open to all staff and PGR students, and provides the same
 environment of meetings, workshops, and guest speakers. Research specifically on sub-
 national politics is also supported by the Politics and Governance Research Network
 (PGRN) of the Wales Institute of Social & Economic Research, Data & Methods’
 (WISERD). We established PGRN with the financial support of WISERD in 2018, and we
 currently co-convene it with Aberystwyth. PGRN organises meetings and workshops for
 researchers on Welsh politics.

 Research focused on multi-level government and politics, developing institutionalist
 and actor-centred approaches. It included the completion of Petersohn’s collaborative work
 on constitutional policy in multi-level government, originally funded by the German Research
 Foundation, as well as Bradbury’s project re-evaluating territorial politics and the early years
 of UK devolution policy. Curry completed research from an FP7 project and held a Marie
 Sklodowska Curie Intra-European Individual Fellowship on ‘Policy innovation and legitimacy in
 regional multi-level governance’. Bradbury completed collaborative publications on multi-level
 political representation in Europe, drawing on the ‘PARTIREP’ project, funded by the Belgium
 Science Policy.




                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also focused on political attitudes and behaviour. Wall conducted ‘What are the odds?’
 funded by the AHRC, on online betting markets and political forecasting in UK elections and
 referenda This involved research with computer science to use a data scraping technique to
 show the responses of betting markets to events. Fahey created original datasets which shed
 new light on the effects of electoral system change and personal gain on representation in US
 state legislatures. We completed a wide range of projects applying quantitative methods to
 attitudes surveys. These included studies of internet usage in voter engagement; voter
 attitudes at the 2016 EU Referendum; and UK public attitudes to heroes.

 Political Communication

 Research in this area is supported by PAG in conjunction with the University Research
 Centre for Digital Arts and Humanities (CODAH), established in 2014. CODAH subsumed
 a fledgling Digital politics group, which had emerged out of PAG, providing for a larger critical
 mass of researchers across PCS and MC. CODAH is directed by an associate professor from
 the UOA and an inter-disciplinary management board of which we have regular membership.
 PAG and CODAH have jointly hosted research meetings, visiting speakers and workshops.

 Research focused on media platforms, political engagement, and inclusion. This
 included Wall’s collaborative projects to deliver Voter Advice Application (VAA) websites for
 the 2016 European elections, 2015 and 2017 UK General Elections and the 2016 Welsh
 elections. This has made us one of the main originators of VAA research in the UK. Thomas
 and Kilby delivered collaborative projects on news reporting at UK elections and on Welsh
 politics. Wu and Wall completed a novel inter-disciplinary study of Chinese nationals’ usage of
 WeChat to discuss contentious political issues.

 Political and Social Philosophy

 Our research in this area is supported by PAG and CODAH in conjunction with the Research
 Institute for Ethics and Law (RIEL), established in 2016 to support the re-development of
 philosophy across the applied social sciences. RIEL is led by a professor and an inter-
 disciplinary management board, of which we have consistent membership. RIEL provides
 regular research meetings, workshops, and speakers, including joint events with PAG and
 CODAH.

 Research explored identities and relationships in modern society, developing
 engagements with feminism and phenomenology. Cockburn completed two projects on
 political philosophy and economic justice, examining property claims and perceptions of
 economic dependence. Bortolan studied the role of emotions in determining moral judgements,
 and their impact on female autonomy. McQueen examined the ethics of changing sex,
 diagnoses of transsexuality and the significance of the UK Gender Recognition Act.

 We also addressed media platforms and personal identities, developing
 phenomenology and critical theory. Merrin completed the Media Studies 2.0 project,
 considering the emergence of digital media and its material, cultural and personal implications.
 Evans conducted novel critical evaluations of the re-emergence of virtual reality, locative social
 media (e.g., GIS mapping), and location-based social media (e.g. text messaging in a social




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 network based in one location), and their effects on human experiences of spatiality, time and
 identity.

 Impact Strategy and Achievements

 Our impact strategy sought to deepen impact through more and stronger external partnerships.
 Applied to our substantive research this led to building strong platforms to achieve impacts on
 (1) international and national policy, and (2) political engagement and civic inclusion.
 We developed collaborations with beneficiaries in many of the projects already referred to, and
 evidence is given in section four of these collaborations and their results. Our impact case
 studies, which are based on further major projects completed during the census period, are
 most illustrative of how we built partnership platforms and achieved major impacts on policy,
 engagement, and inclusion, and are the focus here.

 First, Bewley-Taylor’s research on global drug policy, including drug policy metrics, responses
 to crypto-drug markets, and drugs and conflict in Afghanistan and West Africa, formed a further
 key part of our norms regime research. We have institutionalised this long-running research
 theme in the Global Drugs Policy Observatory (GDPO). The GDPO is now strongly
 embedded in the global drug policy community, with an extensive range of partnerships with
 governments, NGOs and UN agencies, and is core funded by a series of grants from the Open
 Society Foundations. Bewley-Taylor is its full-time director with the capacity to provide a
 standing source of expertise. This provided the necessary support for the major impacts
 described in the ICS: Changing government and international organisations’ approaches to the
 measurement of effectiveness in drug and crime control policy.

 Secondly, Peters’ ‘End of the Feeder Road’ project on the transport needs of rural
 communities in West Africa was a further key element of our international development
 research. We have developed a standing network of researchers with strong relationships with
 European international development departments, NGOs and national policy makers in West
 Africa. Peters has been funded by a series of grants (including ESRC/DFID), and research has
 led to rural development policy in West Africa moving away from support of conventional road
 development to support instead of upgrading tracks for motorcycle taxis. This change has had
 substantial economic, health and educational benefits for rural communities. These key
 impacts are relayed in the ICS: Motorcycle taxi accessible tracks: achieving changes in donor
 and government rural transport policies in Liberia to benefit rural communities and individuals.

 Finally, Wu’s ‘DigComEquality’ project on sensory impaired users of digital media formed a
 key element in our political communication research to enhance civic inclusion, with a focus on
 specific societal groups. Wu and her team of researchers established strong relationships with
 hard of hearing and sight loss charities, broadcasters and Welsh policymakers. Regular
 funding was gained from a series of EPSRC Cherish-DE grants. On this basis the project
 pioneered research on problems of digital inclusion for people with sight impairment and the
 hard of hearing in Wales as part of the UK-wide focus on this issue during the 2010s. It
 subsequently changed both broadcaster and charity policies. The key impacts from this are
 described in ‘DigComEquality: achieving changes in broadcaster and charity policies to benefit
 sensory impaired users of digital media in Wales.




                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open Research Culture

 Our commitment to green OA is demonstrated by the fact that we made our published outputs
 publicly available at the earliest opportunity through the University’s open access research
 repository (CRONFA). We also published four gold OA articles to comply with specific funder
 conditions. We comply with journal requirements for placement of replication datasets in public
 repositories. For example, we have placed original datasets used in two submitted outputs -
 ‘The perks of being a lawmaker’ and ‘The ineffectiveness of electoral reform’ – on the public
 data repository, Github. Original datasets used in two submitted outputs – ‘Explaining co-
 operation over casework’ and ‘MPs inter-party contacts’ are available at
 http://www.partirep.eu/datafiles. All members of the UoA have ORCiD accounts.

 Research Integrity

 All staff have completed the University’s Epigeum Research Integrity training programme and
 are consequently trained in their supervisory roles to advise all PhD students and third year
 undergraduate and MA dissertation students on ethical requirements. We compose our
 research in accordance with the University’s policy on research ethics, which requires
 researchers to make ethics applications to the COAH Research Integrity Committee.
 Participant information and consent forms are composed according to GDPR requirements. All
 undergraduate, postgraduate taught and PGR students compose their dissertation research
 on the same basis. Research ethics procedures comply with those set out by the AHRC and
 ESRC, including the ESRC’s Framework for Research Ethics.

 Future Research Objectives

 From 2021 we will be part of a larger faculty of humanities and social sciences, affording
 new opportunities for staff investment, inter-disciplinary synergies, and enhancements of
 research support. The University is investing further in international partnerships with
 universities in India and China, which will create more opportunities for staff exchange and
 research collaboration. It will deepen its commitment to inter-disciplinary research through the
 Morgan Advanced Studies Institute (MASI), which inter alia will promote more digital (and
 AI) inter-disciplinary collaborations.

 In this context, we will advance research in our four areas by continuing to focus on (1)
 scholarly innovation, (2) collaborative research, (3) increased research income and PGR
 completions, (4) deepened research impact, and (5) support for interdisciplinary, open
 research and integrity. Our plans to achieve success are illustrated by projects already funded,
 commissioned and/or started: -

 International relations, area studies and international development
      Hybrid international criminal courts and global justice (British Academy).
      Drugs and conflict in Afghanistan and Drug Policy Index (Open Society Foundations
        and the Robert Carr Foundation).
      Centre for cannabis research, GDPO in partnership with the University of West Indies,
        Mona (HEFCW GCRF).
      ASEAN and human rights (HEFCW GCRF and Foreign, Commonwealth and
        International Development Office).



                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Urban food security and small holder farmers in West Africa, Infrastructure, and e-
        mobility in mountainous areas of Nepal (HEFCW GCRF).
       ‘Finding Traction’ a manual for governments and international donors on the upgrade
        of rural footpaths to motorcycle accessible tracks with community support (ESRC/DFID
        follow-on).
       Environmental politics in the Southern Mediterranean and possible co-operation
        between Turkey, Egypt, and Israel (Grant from the Centre for Advanced Turkey Studies
        of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs).

 Comparative politics, including sub-national politics
    Constitutional Policy and Territorial Politics in the UK since 2007, and Government and
      Public policy in Wales (both contracted with BUP).
    The actions and motives of MPs and TDs in Northern Ireland’s political parties (PSA
      Research and Innovation Fund).
    ‘Civil society in turbulent times: Capacity Building in Ireland and Wales’ (ESRC).
    Political trust after the UK referendum on EU membership (collaborative with
      psychology).

 Political Communication
     ‘My vote choice, 2021’, including a VAA website for the 2021 Welsh election (British
        Academy).
     Beyond the Mainstream Media: understanding the rise of online political media’
        (ESRC).
     Digital media in China (National Social Science Fund of China)
     Sensory impaired users and digital media during the Covid-19 pandemic (Greatest
        Need Fund).

 Political and Social Philosophy
     Economic dependence in personal relationships.
     Sexual ethics and the family.
     Emotions online: the philosophy of self-esteem in the context of living online.
     ‘Space-software-human: the augmented reality of the smart city’ (National Science
        Centre, Poland).

 We will also be proactive in taking advantage of new opportunities, with an awareness already
 of the potential to develop:-
      New inter-disciplinary research, notably on international norms and cyber security; and
         ethics, social policy and identities.
      International staff exchange and PGR opportunities (replicating the Central Oklahoma
         collaborative model - see section two).
      New research on virtual reality and political platforms (utilising a new VR suite – see
         section three).

 Future Impact Strategy

 We also envisage continuity in our impact strategy to build more and stronger partnerships so
 as to influence international and national policy and enhance political engagement and civic
 inclusion. In shaping the strategy further, we expect to


                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       take advantage of University internationalisation to develop more impacts on
        international norms and international development in global governance,
       develop the potential of the WISERD PGRN to build research partnerships to realise
        stronger impacts from comparative politics and political communication research, and
       explore how the re-investment in philosophy and its intersections with politics and
        international studies may also result in significant impacts.

 UoA Structure




 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Our staff headcount and FTE are both 20.0, representing increases of 122% and 143%
 respectively since 2013. Our staffing strategy strengthened each of our areas of specialism:

    1. International Relations, Area Studies, and International Development with the
       appointments of Trenta and Schmidt on normative contestation in international relations
       and Akcali on migration and politics in the Middle East and North Africa.
    2. Comparative Politics with the recruitment of Curry and Petersohn on governance and
       constitutional design, and Fahey on quantitative research of subnational politics.
    3. Political Communication with Wu, Thomas and Kilby joining from MC with expertise
       on media and politics.
    4. Political and social philosophy with the appointments of McQueen, Cockburn and
       Bortolan on political and social philosophy, and Merrin and Evans joining from MC with
       expertise in the philosophy of new media platforms.




                                                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development

 The UoA Director of Research mentors all staff based on an Individual Research Portfolio
 (IRP). The IRP provides a framework for considering personal strategies for publication;
 projects and grant bids; recruitment of research students; research impact; collaborations and
 contribution to the profession. We hold IRP meetings at six monthly intervals. PCS and MC
 Heads of Department also reflect on research performance with staff through Professional
 Development Review. This performance enabling mechanism measures performance against
 key indicators (including publications, grant applications/funding and PGR supervision). It is
 used as a basis for constructive feedback and setting agreed objectives on a 12-monthly basis
 (with interim review after six months).

 During probation ECRs receive additional mentoring and support. A senior colleague acts
 as their Individual Mentor, and ECRs are given a reduced teaching load and exemption from
 major administrative portfolios. Since 2013, six ECRs have completed probation. The
 University’s continuing professional development (CPD) courses underpin career progression
 for all staff. Our staff development policy is consistent with the 2008 Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Research Staff, which is recognised with a European
 Commission HR Excellence in Research Award. This award was reaffirmed three times during
 the REF period.

 We support our staff by providing permanent contracts. This not only offers our
 researchers security but helps us retain talent. In 2019/2020, all our Category A staff are
 employed on permanent contracts. During the census period we employed four research
 assistants on fixed –term contracts, and we provided them with research mentoring for career
 development. We had nine promotions in the census period, establishing a profile of 3
 professors, 7 associate professors, 5 senior lectures and 5 lecturers. This profile enabled
 mentoring of associate professors to succeed into research leadership responsibilities, and
 staff at SL and Lecturer levels to gain experience relevant to progressing their careers.

 Staff Support

 We provide equality of research opportunities for all researchers. Researchers have a
 research day each week and extended research time during teaching recess. They are
 eligible to apply for a sabbatical of one or more semesters after six semesters. Staff can
 apply to work on research outputs, grant applications or research impact. We benefited from
 18 sabbaticals in the census period. The UOA Director of Research organises peer review of
 publications and advice on grant bids when requested, as well as advice on how to respond to
 journal revise and resubmit decisions and research funder feedback. A key mechanism for
 supporting research is the PCS Research Seminar Series. This is organised by our PhD
 students, giving them experience of managing events and chairing presentations. This is used
 by all staff to present draft papers, and by PhD students to present draft PhD chapters, and
 receive feedback.

 Our research environment was enhanced by the appointment of Peter Hain, former UK
 Cabinet minister, as a visiting fellow (2013-2016) and Andrew Davies, Minister in the Welsh
 Government 1999-2010, as an honorary professor from 2013. Baron Hain provided annual
 public lectures, and both provided talks to the PCS research seminar and to PhD students.



                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Davies provided advice on research bids related to Wales. There are opportunities for staff
 mobility through the University’s Texas Strategic Partnership arrangement. During the census
 period two staff visited Universities in Texas under this scheme.

 We place a strong focus on integrating ECRs into the staff research culture. ECRs
 undertake roles in research group convenorship and are otherwise fully included in deciding
 research group/centre activities. The culture of discussing ideas and circulating early drafts of
 work enables ECRs to benefit from early feedback. ECRs had significant success in grant
 capture, including a Marie Curie Intra-European Fellowship (Curry 2015), British Academy
 Rising Star Engagement Award (Trenta 2017); and co-investigator on ‘Beyond Mainstream
 media’, funded by the ESRC (Thomas, 2020).

 Reward, Recognition and Support for Impact

 Indicative levels of achievement in University review of outputs and/or impact case studies,
 grant capture, PGR supervision and contribution to the profession are all used as criteria for
 promotion and annual remuneration decisions for professorial staff. The nine promotions
 during the census period reflect our success against these criteria. The University also holds
 regular Research and Innovation (R and I) awards, funded by the EPSRC Impact
 Acceleration Account, as well as an annual Research as Art competition to promote impact.
 Against stiff competition with STEMM in the R and I award, we won the Outstanding Research
 Collaboration award in 2016 and achieved Runner up in the Rising Star ECR Staff researcher
 category in early 2020. The GDPO’s “Drug Deal in Server Alley” was the runner-up in the
 Research as Art competition in 2015.

 We have a designated Impact Lead who provides guidance in developing impact, supported
 by the Arts, Humanities and Law Hub Impact and Engagement officer (see section 3):

    1. The Impact Lead and Impact and Engagement Officer regularly canvas for notification
       of impact activities and meet staff individually to develop their work. They help staff to
       recognise impact potential and develop approaches to engaging with end-users and
       capturing evidence.
    2. They provide advice to staff in developing ‘pathways to impact’ plans in grant proposals.
    3. They then integrate projects which are generating impact into a formal impact case
       study continuous assessment process. Feedback and guidance are provided on draft
       templates, as well as ongoing impact activities and evidence capture.


 Our Support and Review process for potential case studies fits within a broader institutional
 framework which includes review and feedback from University panels and from an Impact
 External Assessor. At each feedback phase, we work with authors to incorporate comments
 and implement suggested actions.




                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate Research Students

 We achieved 34 awarded PhDs, an increase of 45% compared to REF2014. The table
 below details the number of PhDs awarded in each year of the assessment period. We do
 not award professional doctorates.

               13/14       14/15      15/16       16/17       17/18      18/19       19/20
  PhDs
                 5           7           1          8           4          3           6
  awarded

 We recruit nationally and internationally, promoting areas of staff expertise on a continuous
 basis. Recruitment was helped by securing 11 funded PhD scholarships, including four
 continuing ESRC DTC studentships, the James Callaghan Scholarship, the Nawal Al Sharif
 scholarship, PhD scholarships awarded from the Turkish government and competitively
 awarded Swansea University Research Excellence Scholarships (SURES). Students from
 Wales, who were otherwise self-funded, received support from the James Pantyfedwin
 Foundation. We also recruited students through the Swansea@UCO PhD programme, a
 collaborative programme with the University of Central Oklahoma (UCO) in which PhD
 students based in UCO are supervised by a primary supervisor from Swansea. We currently
 supervise six Swansea@UCO PhD students.

 We monitor and support our PhD students under the oversight of the COAH Graduate
 Research Centre (GRC). The GRC organises generic induction training and ensures that
 all research students have an appropriate primary and secondary supervisor. Students are
 provided with dedicated on-campus workspaces, with access to computing and IT equipment,
 lockers, library and support facilities. Our supervisors assess training needs and provide
 regular supervision to define their research project, mentor them, and monitor progress.
 Monitoring is maintained through the formal recording of monthly student engagements on
 an online Evision system, and four formal progression report meetings per year.
 Progression reports underpin University confirmation of candidature, probation, and six-
 monthly progression. This approach ensures close supervision and transparent recording of
 research progress, helping both our students and our completion rates.

 The CoAH GRC organises training in research ethics and ensures that PhD students are
 aware of University generic and transferable skills training, employability training and
 interdisciplinary methods training. The COAH GRC also hosts an annual postgraduate
 research conference giving PhD students the opportunity to present papers and network a
 PGR community of larger critical mass. All PGR students are provided with £600 to support
 field research and conference presentations. We take the lead in subject specific training.
 We were a member of the ESRC Wales DTC language-based area studies pathway until 2017
 and a legacy partner of the successor DTP from 2017. In this capacity we co-organised and/or
 contributed to annual Wales DTC/DTP research training workshops. PAG also
 strengthened our PhD research methods training by running from 2018 annual research
 methods workshops.

 We are strongly committed to integrating our PhD students into our research culture, as
 evidenced by their role in the PCS research seminar and involvement in research groups and
 centres. This helped to inspire significant achievements. Our PhD students organised



                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workshops and conferences, for example the interdisciplinary #CNC17 (Cyber Network
 Conference 2017) in conjunction with Law and Criminology and funded by the ESRC Wales
 DTC. One PhD student was the Vice-Chair of the Eurasian, East and Central European Studies
 Women Academics’ Forum (EECES WAF). With a grant from the ESRC Wales DTP, EECES
 WAF held their second workshop in Swansea in September 2019. Another PhD student
 provided an expert statement on crypto-drug markets to the UN Office on Drugs and Crime
 (Vienna, 2018). We achieved Runner up in the Rising Star PGR researcher category in early
 2020 in the University’s R and I award.

 Our PhD students on graduation secured a wide range of University and government
 positions, including lecturing posts at: Birmingham City University; Swansea University; Ohio
 State University; the Defence Language Institute, Monterey; Cankiri Karatekin University,
 Turkey; and Gendarmerie and Coast Guard Academy, Turkey. They also developed careers
 in local government (Swansea Council), Welsh Government (the Welsh Revenue Authority),
 and UK government (HM Revenue & Customs, Office of Communications and Cabinet Office).

 Supporting and Promoting Equality and Diversity

 We are 15 FTE male and 5 FTE female staff. Two members of staff identify as BAME and
 none as disabled. We are comprised of 55% non-British nationalities. We recognise the staff
 gender imbalance as a problem and promote equality and diversity. Consequently, we make
 a conscious effort, through positive action statements and inclusive language in our job
 descriptions, to encourage applications by female and BAME candidates. We supported
 training for career development for female staff. Two staff members completed the
 Aurora Women Leadership Programme in 2018 and 2020 respectively, funded by CoAH.
 We also supported female members of staff into promoted positions. During the census
 period two female staff were promoted to associate professor. Opportunities for sabbatical
 study leave and flexible working, are available to all staff. During this REF period all female
 staff who applied for sabbatical leave were successful.

 Staff take advantage of the University’s onsite nursery and childcare voucher system.
 Timetabling and administrative duties are adjusted via a ‘Staff Constraints’ system to enable
 parents and carers to manage their commitments. Core meetings are held during carer-
 friendly hours of 10am and 4pm. Line managers oversee the phased return to work of staff
 with longer term health needs, and part-time working arrangements are implemented where
 required, though currently no staff have fractional contracts. The University is a member of
 Stonewall’s Diversity Champions programme. There is an LGBT+ Network, which won
 Network of the year at the Annual Stonewall Cymru Workplace Equality Index Awards in 2017
 and 2018 and has continued to rank highly since 2018. Two staff members served on the
 CoAH EDI Committee and assisted in the preparation of the CoAH Athena Swan Bronze
 application in 2020 (decision pending).

 We supported female staff in developing research-related leadership roles. These
 included the roles of UoA Director, UoA Environment lead and co-convenor of PAG. A female
 staff member currently serves as Director of CODAH and two female staff are members of
 COAH’s Research Ethics Committee. In line with the University’s Code of Practice and
 our unit Statement of Intent, the team making the decisions on the final selection of outputs
 all received mandatory unconscious bias training as well as targeted REF specific training on
 the fair and transparent selection of outputs for inclusion in the submission. Consequently,


                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the distribution of outputs across staff in the standard data analysis reflects our
 unwavering commitment to equality and diversity. The submission comprises the one best-
 quality output from each Category A submitted staff member with the balance made up of the
 best-quality outputs from the available pool of eligible outputs that includes outputs of former
 eligible colleagues. The University's Equality and Diversity Sub-Group considered all self-
 reported individual staff circumstances and made recommendations on reductions to an
 individual’s expected contribution to the output pool, which we have respected.


 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 Research Income Strategy

 Our research income strategy focuses on supporting all staff to make bids. ECR Staff
 are mentored to seek fellowships, small awards as PI and/or larger awards as Co-Is in the first
 instance and build from there. Mid-career and senior staff are encouraged to seek
 appropriately higher levels of funding. Our research income awards during this census period
 are listed below. The British Academy small grant, BA Rising star award, British Institute
 award, and ESRC Co-I award, all represent ECRs gaining early successes. The AHRC award
 and Marie Curie fellowship represent achievements for mid-career staff seeking higher funding.
 The ESRC ‘Enablement beyond constraints’ award represented success for a scholar with an
 already developed grant record. The latter also represented participation in a larger consortium
 leading to international publications.

 Most of these grants led to publications featured in our submission. One of the BA small
 grants led to “The Obama Administration’s conceptual change”, published by European Journal
 of International Security being listed as one of its most influential articles of 2018.

 Research income achievements also played a major role in supporting research impact.
 The Open Society Foundations funding for the Global Drug Policy Observatory was
 instrumental in supporting the ICS on Changing government and international organisations’
 approaches to the measurement of effectiveness in drug and crime control policy. Equally the
 ESRC ‘At the end of the Feeder Road’ and Institute of Development Studies grants were
 instrumental in supporting the ICS on Motorcycle taxi accessible tracks: achieving changes in
 donor and government rural transport policies in Liberia to benefit rural communities and
 individuals.

 Our grant awards, 2013-2020:
    ● ‘At the end of the Feeder Road’ (ESRC, £73,101) and follow-on funding for ‘At the end
       of the Feeder Road: Finding Traction’ (ESRC, £58, 397)
    ● ‘Enablement Beside Constraints’ (ESRC, £86,916)
    ● ‘What are the Odds?’ (AHRC, £76.088)
    ● ‘Beyond the Mainstream Media: Understanding the rise of online political media”
       (ESRC, £34,834)
    ● ‘Initiative for Managing Policy Maker/Academic cooperation and Knowledge Transfer
       (IMPACKT)’ (EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account, £9,246)
    ● ‘Policy Innovation and legitimacy in regional multi-level government’ (Marie Sklodowska
       Curie Intra-European Individual Fellowship, €183,455)
    ● ‘Targeted killing’ (British Academy, £9,431)


                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       ‘Out of the Shadows’ (British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award, £13,959)
       ‘Exploring Hybrid International Criminal courts’ (British Academy, £7,124)
       ‘Diaspora Business’ (British Institute at Ankara, £3,700)
       ‘End of the Feeder Road Kisumu Workshop’ (Institute of Development Studies, £8,300)
       ‘Global Drug Policy Observatory’ (Open Society Foundations, £182,846)
       ‘Cannabis Innovate’ (Equinox International Holdings Limited, £237,023)

 Our strategy used University and College pump-priming schemes to help to develop grant
 capture. These comprised the Swansea University Research Grant Enabler fund (SURGE),
 Cherish-Digital Economy (funding for digital and social science initiatives) and the CoAH Texas
 Collaboration Fund (TCF) for staff mobility. We achieved 17 awards from these funds which
 supported research as well as the preparation of external grant bids. For example, Cherish-
 DE awards preceded successful bids for the ‘What are the Odds’ and ‘End of the Feeder Road’
 projects. A Cherish-DE award helped the Global Drugs Policy Observatory to do the necessary
 pilot work to secure external funding from Equinox International Holdings. A TCF award
 supported a workshop that led to the successful BA small grant application on ‘targeted killing’.
 A SURGE award provided the seed corn money for establishing IMPACKT (see section 4),
 which later achieved EPSRC IAA awards.

 Pump priming funding was also important in developing impact and new research and
 continues to be so in preparing plans for the next census period. For example, Cherish-
 DE awards supported the research that led to the ICS: DigComEquality: achieving changes in
 broadcaster and charity policies to benefit sensory impaired users of digital media in Wales. A
 TCF award led ultimately to the inter-disciplinary collaborative project on WeChat and
 contentious politics in China. Towards the end of the census period the University also made
 available HEFCW GCRF funds and the Greatest Need Fund (focused on research with local
 impact). We won five HEFCW GCRF awards, with a value of £64K which enable us to build on
 research that led to ICS in this period to underpin partnerships and external research
 applications in the next census period. SURGE funding in 2016 and a HEFCW GCRF grant in
 2019, with a value of £50k, supported continued research on ASEAN and human rights. We
 won two Greatest Need grants, including one to sustain research on digital media inclusion
 and sensory impaired users.

 Organisational Infrastructure

 We are able to apply to the COAH Research Support Fund (up to £1500 per person per
 annum) for help in presenting research at conferences, conduct pilot field research and to
 organise meetings related to grant bids. We secured 70 awards in the census period, totalling
 more than £34.5K. RIEL receives University funding and PAG, ISCAS and CODAH are
 financially supported by COAH’s Research Environment Fund (up to £1500 per group per
 annum) to enable workshops and seminars with external speakers. This led to approximately
 forty events with external speakers over the course of the census period. These included: -

       Workshops, for example those co-organised with The Bush School of Government,
        Texas A&M on ‘China and digital politics’ (2017); and Kings College London on ‘Cross-
        Domain Deterrence: Politics by Many Means’ (2018).




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Seminars featuring for example, Johanna Schnabel (Newton International Fellow at
        University of Kent) on “The Politics of Conditional Grants in Federal States”; Rear
        Admiral Christopher Parry CBE, on “Sea Power in the 21st Century”; Mirva Salminen
        (University of Lapland), “A Human Security Perspective to Digitalisation and
        Cybersecurity in the European High North”; and Athina Karatzogianni (Leicester
        University) on “Leaktivism, Disinformation Architectures, & Ideological Polarisation on
        Digital Networks”.

 We also receive support from COAH for our membership of the European Consortium for
 Political Research (ECPR). Membership not only enables staff to participate in the annual
 conference and joint sessions, but it also provides access for staff and PhD students to ECPR
 summer and winter schools. During this census period we were a founding member of
 ECPR’s research network on VAAs.

 We also benefited from the collaborative opportunities provided by the Welsh Crucible, funded
 by the Welsh Universities and HEFCW. Welsh Crucible selects 30 researchers from across
 Wales each year to participate in residential workshops where they explore how they can
 benefit from working with researchers in other disciplines, how their research can have greater
 impact, and how they can build international research careers in Wales. The Initiative for
 Managing Policy Maker/Academic cooperation and Knowledge Transfer (IMPACKT) (see
 section 4) developed from this programme.

 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure

 We operate a scheme where senior researchers have responsibility for mentoring and
 supporting staff in the development of research ideas into grant bids. When researchers are
 ready to progress their ideas, they then have access to professional services staff available in
 the Research Enterprise and Innovation Services Arts, Humanities and Law Hub. The
 REIS AHLHub is staffed by a Hub Manager, a Research Development Officer (RDO);
 Research Bid Writer; Research Impact and Engagement Officer; and a Research Support
 Advisor (RSA). They are all on-site in COAH. The AHLHub identifies external funding
 opportunities, and works with academics to cost and build bids. They run local briefing events
 for specific schemes and publicise University-level sandpits and town hall meetings with major
 funders.

 REIS AHL Hub staff support each research grant application: comprising general research
 project management by the RDO; research application content by the Bid writer; advice on
 pathways to impact by the Impact and Engagement Officer; and costing and financial details
 by the RSA. All applications are recorded and checked on the University’s Advanced
 Management System ahead of confirmation of content on external grant forms. The AHL Hub
 organises demand management peer review procedures ahead of submission of research
 council grant applications, as well as pre-submission peer review for other grant applications.
 This infrastructure helped considerably in supporting a substantial increase in our funding and
 research expenditure.

 The AHLHub, through its Impact and Engagement Officer, also supports the development of
 post-award public engagement and impact. COAH provides a Research Impact Fund (RIF)
 to support research impact. This includes funding for events and activities to enhance reach



                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 or significance, and for data collection to evidence impact. We secured 6 RIF awards during
 the census period, which supported our ICSs, as well as other early-stage impact work.

 We are also supported by the COAH Research Office, which advises staff on entering
 publications on to the University’s Research Information System and ensuring that they meet
 open access requirements. The Research Office oversees University publication review
 procedures and provides administrative support for the CoAH Research Support Fund and
 Research Environment Fund. It also supports the COAH inter-disciplinary conference,
 Research Across Boundaries, run for the first time in 2019, and research ethics procedures.
 The CoAH Research office is co-located with the REIS AHL Hub, providing staff with a one
 stop set of research support services close at hand.

 We significantly benefited from the University’s investment in its infrastructure and facilities
 because of the move to a dual campus. This led in 2017 to a £2 million refurbishment of the
 Taliesin Building, which is close to the PCS and MC departments. Now known as Taliesin
 Create, it has become an inclusive and flexible area for student, staff, and community use.
 Taliesin Create was the venue for many of our conferences, workshops, visiting speakers and
 PGR training events, including for example the WISERD Politics and Governance Research
 Network’s workshop on “Welsh Policy and Politics in Unprecedented Times” co-organised with
 the Welsh Government/ESRC funded Wales Centre for Public Policy (2019).

 Equality and Diversity

 All staff had equal opportunities for support from our research income strategy,
 organisational infrastructure, and operational and scholarly infrastructure. Female and BAME
 staff members were among those successful in external grant awards and those receiving
 support from the University EPSRC Cherish-DE and Greatest Need funds. All received support
 from the COAH Research Support Fund. All staff benefited from the events supported by
 the COAH Research Environment Fund, and female and BAME staff members received
 support for visiting speakers they wished to invite. Female staff members attended ECPR
 events. All staff members had equal access to support from the REIS AHL Hub for grant
 bids and the COAH Research Office. Female and BAME staff also received support from the
 Research Impact Fund.

 Specialist Infrastructure

 We benefited from investment in 2018 in CoAH in a Virtual Reality suite. This is a critical facility
 in enabling us to respond to the ESRC’s agenda for understanding “New ways of being in a
 digital age”. Political theory and philosophy staff have engaged with the resource, and it helped
 to secure the award of the grant on “Space-software-human: the augmented reality of the smart
 city” with researchers in Poland (see section one).




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 National and International Collaboration

 The Global Drugs Policy Observatory (GDPO), funded by the Open Society Foundations,
 and led by Bewley-Taylor (with Schmidt, Trenta and Wall as research associates), is a leading
 centre in an international network of expertise on drug policy. Ruth Dreifuss, the former
 President of the Swiss Confederation and current chair of the Global Commission on
 Drug Policy, is the GDPO’s Patron. She said of the GDPO ‘Nothing is timelier than the
 establishment and operation of an observatory to provide analysis and to allow policy reforms
 to be based on evidence: evidence of failures and evidence of success”. The GDPO has
 research associates at Manchester, Glasgow, and Cardiff Universities. Partner institutions
 include the Centre on Drug Policy Evaluation (Toronto); Harm Reduction International; the
 Washington Office on Latin America; and the Afghanistan Research and Evaluation Unit. It
 organises its research in seven work streams, and produces policy briefs, reports and working
 papers series, situation analyses and podcasts as well as academic outputs.

 Trenta’s “Out of the Shadows” project, funded by the British Academy, provided leadership
 for an ECR network to study covert action in state foreign policies. The project facilitated the
 professional development of 11 PhD students based in UK universities, including a workshop
 in 2017, and the running of a blog. It drew on the support of researchers at Pittsburgh,
 Nottingham, and Cardiff.

 We established the Welsh Politics and Governance Research Network, funded by the
 Wales Institute of Social & Economic Research, Data & Methods’ (WISERD). From 2018 the
 network provided workshops and online seminars for scholars from the five Welsh partner
 universities. WISERD Co-Director, Paul Chaney described the network as ‘’an exciting
 development with strong potential to link-up leading experts working on politics and
 governance issues in Wales and beyond – and to advance research that will have real impact
 on scholarship, policy and public life.”

 Peters’ research on West Africa, funded by the ESRC, led to leadership of the ‘End of the
 Feeder Road’ expert network on regional development and transport infrastructure. This
 comprises researchers at Reading, Wageningen University (Netherlands), Ngala University
 (Sierra Leone), and the University of the Cape Coast, Ghana. Peters developed partnerships
 with the UK, German, and Swedish International Development Departments, and US and West
 African NGOs. These collaborations produced both reports and academic outputs, and they
 were instrumental in achieving changes in international donor and government policies in West
 Africa on rural transport infrastructure.

 Wall’s research on voter advice applications was based on research partnerships with VAA
 projects at Vrije University Amsterdam. He collaborated with EUVOX for the 2014 European
 Elections, Election Compass for the 2015 and 2017 UK General Elections, and Kieskompass
 for the 2016 Welsh election. In UK research of VAAs he is part of a consortium with researchers
 at Oxford Brookes, the Oxford Internet Institute and the Universities of Surrey and Bath. He
 also co-publishes on internet effects in election campaigns with researchers at Essex, McGill
 Montreal, and UC Dublin; and collaborates (with Thomas and Kilby) on gambling websites,
 election forecasting and reporting with Limerick.



                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Other research partnerships include Clarke and Collins’ British Academy funded
 research with the University of Philippines Diliman to study the ASEAN Human Rights
 mechanism. Akcali’s research on migration and the Middle East involves collaboration
 with Glasgow Caledonian University and MEF and Kadir Has Universities in Istanbul.
 Cockburn’s research on political philosophy and economic justice included collaboration
 on an edited collection with Aarhus and Copenhagen Universities. Evans’ research on
 locative media was conducted in collaboration with Maynooth University and City University
 London. Kilby and Thomas’ research on political reporting of devolution and UK general
 elections both involved collaboration with researchers in political journalism at Cardiff.

 Collaboration also involved contributions to major projects organised elsewhere.
 Sheehan and Collins’ research on Arctic security was co-ordinated from the Arctic Centre,
 University of Lapland, and involved collaboration with the Universities of Victoria, Canada and
 Wien, Austria. Bradbury’s research on representation in multi-level democracies formed
 part of the 15 country PARTIREP project, based at Vrije Universiteit Brussels. Curry’s
 research on public sector reform in Europe derived from his participation in an EU FP7
 project, led by Erasmus University Rotterdam. Both Bradbury and Curry presented at
 seminars in Berkeley, California, leading to essays in Mark Bevir’s co-edited books Rethinking
 Governance and Decentring European Governance.

 Wu’s research on digital media and civic inclusion included collaboration with Heilongjiang
 University. Petersohn’s outputs as an ECR derived from earlier international collaborations
 on: the dynamics of multi-level states at the University of Konstanz; and constitutional policy in
 multilevel government at Technische Universitat Darmstadt. In 2017, after joining Swansea,
 she collaborated with colleagues at Wilfried Laurier University and Nottingham to edit a special
 edition of Publius, the Journal of Federalism.

 Relationships with Research Beneficiaries

 We held roles as advisors and expert witnesses for elite policy making. Bewley-Taylor
 held several roles, including Member of the Advisory group on drug policy for the Office of the
 UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and Member of Advisory Board, Uruguay Ministry
 of Health. He informed government debates on the reform of drug policies. Akcali was an
 invited panellist at the British Academy, US Institute of Peace and Peace Research Institute
 Oslo seminar on the future of Cyprus (2019); as well as a member of a roundtable on security
 and the reunification of Cyprus, Hellenic Centre (2019). Participation in such roles enriched the
 UoAs expertise in international policy processes and norm contestation.

 We made submissions to parliamentary committees to contribute to legislative inquiry.
 Petersohn and Bradbury contributed five submissions of evidence to UK Parliamentary
 committees: from the HoL Constitution Committee inquiry into The Union and Devolution
 (2015); to the HoC Scottish Affairs Committee inquiry into The Relationship between the UK
 and Scottish Governments (2019). Such evidence enhanced legislator understanding of
 devolution and the implications of Brexit in Scotland and Wales. In turn, this engagement
 consolidated our expertise in territorial politics and UK devolution.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We developed an Initiative for Managing Policy Maker/Academic cooperation and
 Knowledge Transfer (IMPACKT). This was established in 2016 by Curry with colleagues in
 engineering and medicine. Curry provided researchers across Swansea University STEMM
 subjects with policy toolkits and 32 policy clinics, leading to policy briefs and evidence to
 parliamentary committees. The initiative enriched the UOA’s understanding of how to develop
 inter-disciplinary research to inform policy.

 We developed vehicles for encouraging democratic participation. Wall’s Voter Advice
 Application (VAAs) websites had a substantial impact on public awareness and understanding
 of election campaigns. The VAA for the 2014 European Parliament elections reached over
 125,000 unique users, and generated coverage in The Economist, The Guardian, and the Daily
 Mail. The VAA for the 2015 and 2017 UK general elections attracted around 70,000 unique
 visitors, and a Wales-specific VAA in the 2017 UK election reached over 4,000 unique users.
 The VAA for the 2016 Welsh Assembly Elections reached over 8,000 unique users. This
 experience has made VAA development a key focus for innovation in the UOA.

 We developed public and educational understanding of international politics. Trenta’s
 ‘Out of the Shadows’ project on covert action in foreign policy included: -
     A public lecture at the National Assembly for Wales, and a Workshop for the Youth
         Parliament Wales (2018).
     Public talks at the 2019 Hay-on-Wye book festival and at the AHRC funded Swansea
         Being Human Festival 2019.
     Podcasts - three episodes received more than 600 listens.
     A prototype graphic novel on the Central Intelligence Agency with the Folio Art Agency
         and the artist Eric Schmitt.

 The project organised events for secondary schools in 2018, attended by 300 pupils and
 50+ teachers from 25 schools. It provided CPD resources, which were used by teachers
 responsible for delivering Reaching Wider (a partnership to increase participation in higher
 education from underrepresented groups/communities in South West Wales) and SEREN (a
 network of regional hubs to support Wales’ brightest sixth formers). The project produced a
 “Challenge” assignment for the Welsh Baccalaureate’s Skills Challenge Certificate. This
 work reinforced covert action as a focus for innovative research in the UOA.

 We made over 500 media contributions including: -
     Regular columns, for example Wall (weekly in South Wales Evening Post); Akcali
      (monthly in Turkish Cypriot daily newspaper Havadis); Thomas (regular morning
      newspaper reviewer for BBC Radio Good Morning Wales).
     Articles for The Conversation. These comprised 22 articles which reached 437,130
      readers worldwide, receiving 737 comments.
     UK and Welsh TV, Radio and Blog contributions on Brexit; Welsh, UK and European
      politics and elections and policy-related issues, e.g., Bewley-Taylor on Drug policy
      (BBC Radio 4 Today).
     Welsh Radio contributions on US politics, e.g., “The Inauguration of Donald Trump”,
      on Good Evening Wales (2017).
     Media consultancy, e.g., Trenta was script consultant for a short movie on
      assassination produced by BBC Ideas. He participated in four episodes of the History
      Channel documentary, Secret Wars Uncovered.



                                                                                      Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In addition, we co-host the online platform JournalismKX. Thomas created this web-
 based platform in 2019 as a knowledge exchange mechanism for engaging professional
 journalists. By 2020 it had 30+ articles written by journalists and academics exploring the
 challenges of contemporary political journalism. Media engagement has enriched the focus in
 our research culture on the challenges and potential of a wide range of forms of political
 communication.

 Overall, our wider contributions to the economy and society focused on providing policy
 advice to support global norm development, security, UN sustainable development goals and
 state territorial balance.

 Our engagement with diverse communities and publics focused on raising awareness and
 understanding to enhance political engagement, civic inclusion, public debate, and educational
 opportunities. We provided benefits of particular importance to users of our research in Wales,
 including specific societal groups.

 Contribution to the Discipline

 Merrin edits the journal Digital War and Trenta is assistant editor of Diplomacy and Statecraft.
 We serve on the editorial boards of five further journals. Clarke and Wall are members of the
 ESRC and AHRC Peer review panels, respectively. We provided members of UKRI grant
 committees. These comprised the ESRC Initiative on Britain in a Changing Europe
 commissioning panel (2015); the ESRC Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) Review College
 (2016); the ESRC GCRF Strategic Networks commissioning panel (2016-17); the RCUK GCRF
 ‘Intractable Problems in Developing Countries’ Research Hubs commissioning panel (2017-
 18); and the ESRC DTP panel of academic assessors for +3 Studentship Annual Assurance
 Checks (2019, 2020). We provided an Adviser to the Commonwealth Scholarships
 Commission (2013-2017).

 We gained recognition through fellowships, prizes, and translation. In addition to Curry’s
 MSC fellowship (see section one), Akcali held an IMéRA resident fellowship for world-class
 foreign researchers at Aix-Marseille University Institute for Advanced Study in 2016. Bradbury
 was an associate fellow at Cardiff University 2014-18 and was elected a Fellow of the Learned
 Society for Wales in 2015. Bewley-Taylor was an associate fellow at the Transnational Institute
 Amsterdam from 2013. Schmidt was a visiting fellow at the LSE Centre for International
 Studies, 2018-19. Schmidt’s work on international criminal courts earned him the ISA
 International Law Section best paper award (2016). Collins’ edited book, Contemporary
 Security Studies (3rd edition) was translated into Chinese (2014), Mongolian (2015), Turkish
 (2015) and Albanian (2016).

 We contributed to professional leadership through memberships of the QAA
 Benchmarking Committee for Politics and International Relations (2014); the ESRC Wales
 Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) Management Group 2013-2016; and the ESRC/DFID Impact
 Initiative (2016, 2018). We provided members of the executive committees of the Association
 of South East Asian Studies, UK, and the International Centre on Human Rights and Drug
 Policy, both from 2013. We co-convened two UK Political Studies Associations specialist
 groups: Global Justice and Human Rights; and Territorial Politics.



                                                                                         Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We delivered over 50 invited lectures and chair roles. Typical of keynote lectures were
 Sheehan’s ‘American and European visions of space security‘ at a conference on the
 militarisation of space, Free University of Berlin, 2014; and Wu’s ‘Building a digital inclusive
 society: the UK experience’ at a conference on New Media, organised by Capital Normal
 University, Beijing, 2016. Chair roles were exemplified by Bradbury’s invited position as Chair
 for a public question time for Carwyn Jones, First Minister of Wales, in the Dylan Thomas
 Centre, Swansea (2015).

 We refereed 16 research grant proposals for UKRI, UK charities and non-UK research
 councils, including the US National Science Foundation and Dutch Research Council, and 35
 GCRF applications for UKRI. We refereed article submissions for 130 different journals,
 including American Political Science Review, Review of International Studies, British Journal
 of Political Science and Media and Society. We provided publisher reviews of 32 book
 manuscripts, and external examiners for 23 PhDs in the UK and 5 PhDs overseas.

 We organised more than 30 conferences and workshops. These included the six
 conferences/workshops we co-organised with the University of Philippines Diliman, held in
 Swansea and Manila (2014-2016). We organised over 50 panels at international
 conferences, including annual conferences of the UK Political Studies Association, Mid-West
 Political Studies Association, International Studies Association, International Communications
 Association and the ECPR, and presented over 210 papers at these and other conferences.
 We were consistently active in eight PSA specialist groups, the ISA’s English School and
 Foreign Policy Analysis Sections: and BISA’s US Foreign Policy Group.

 Finally, we contributed to collaborative arrangements for PGR training. Contributions
 included co-organisation of annual training conferences with Cardiff in the language-based
 area studies pathway of the Wales ESRC DTC, 2013-2017, and contributions to security
 research training in the politics and international studies pathway. We co-organised the
 Association of South East Asian Studies UK Postgraduate Symposium at the LSE in May 2015.
 From 2017 we contributed to annual training conferences of the global language-based area
 studies pathway of the ERSC Wales DTP.




                                                                                         Page 20
