Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Reading Law School has always been proud of our strong, supportive and collegial environment,
 which is reflected in the quality of our research and teaching. We value our co-operative, non-
 hierarchical culture and are committed to transparency of processes and open dialogue. We are
 proud of our collaborative approach to decision-making, fairness and coherence across all areas
 of activity. Our location in Foxhill House, a Victorian Gothic mansion set among lawns leading
 down to a lake, makes the School a delightful place in which to work and study. The range of
 research expertise which flourishes here is testament to the importance we place upon enabling
 an open-minded, inclusive and respectful environment in which researchers are valued and
 nurtured. This helps us to inspire our students to become individuals who can make a difference.

 The School attracts students from all regions of the UK and also a sizeable international
 cohort. We offer the LLB and a range of postgraduate taught and research programmes, as well
 as contributing to an International Foundation Programme and joint teaching for other Schools.

 1.1 Structure
 After REF2014 the University research structures were reconstituted across four broad themes
 that provide forums for cross-disciplinary research activity across Research Divisions as detailed
 in the Institutional Environment statement. Each Research Division has a Research Division
 Lead (RDL) who provides leadership and support for division members in the development and
 realisation of personal and strategic objectives for the Division. The RDL is supported by the
 theme’s Research Dean through regular meetings to discuss support for research initiatives,
 work-in-progress, and how to overcome any challenges in the research environment. These
 structures have enhanced our research and enabled more cross-disciplinary collaboration
 between Law and other areas such as Agriculture, Business, Education, Environmental Science,
 Geography, Global Development, Meteorology and Politics. Law Research Division is part of the
 Prosperity and Resilience theme and is fully contained within the School of Law. All staff in the
 division are research active and are included in this return. One Law professor – Rosa
 Freedman – was returned in Development Studies but is also an active member of the Law
 School.

 1.2 Research Strategy & Achievements since REF 2014
 In REF2014 we had 28 staff and submitted all but one of those eligible. This deliberate decision,
 based on our inclusive approach, was rewarded by being ranked 10th for research intensity and
 25th for research power, the smallest law school to achieve such a high-power rating. Our
 strategy for the period 2014-21 was informed first by a collective reflection on the REF 2014
 outcomes and our strengths and weaknesses, and as the Law School grew and evolved over
 the period, by a collective effort to identify who we were and where we wanted to go. Out of
 these discussions emerged our strategic aims:

 To enhance our Impact by widening and strengthening our interactions with international
 organisations, public bodies and community organisations.
 To improve the quality of research outputs by working with colleagues to better understand how
 quality is measured and by creating space and mentoring opportunities to enable colleagues to
 produce more and better work.
 To increase staff’s grant-holding experience and capacity by encouraging and supporting more
 colleagues to apply for a diverse range of research funding.
 To grow our research capacity in commercial law and international law, and to sustain our
 excellence in socio-legal studies and legal theory.

 Strategic Aim 1 (enhancing our Impact) was addressed by the new University and Division
 structure which included dedicated Impact Officers at Theme level, an institutional Building
 Outstanding Impact Support Programme, and enhanced awareness and training for impact (see

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3). Within the School, an Impact Lead (Hilson) was appointed to work with staff and
 research groups to develop impactful projects, resulting in the Law School embracing much
 more impact-related work and public engagement, building an impact portfolio and pipeline and
 ensuring impact is embedded in our research culture (see Section 4).

 Strategic Aim 2 (improving the quality of outputs) was addressed, first, by creating space for
 research through our recruitment strategy outlined in Section 2 and by providing training and
 support for the production of the highest quality (including prizewinning) outputs in highly ranked
 journals and with highly ranked publishers.

 Second, we made it a priority to strengthen processes for reviewing outputs and providing
 feedback to develop a clear, robust, and evidence-based knowledge of the quality of our outputs
 across the School. There is a regularly communicated expectation that all outputs will be peer-
 reviewed prior to publication. Staff have a choice of sending their work to colleagues internally or
 to external peer reviewers. Part of assigned mentors’ formal role is to provide feedback on draft
 outputs for ECRs (see Section 2). This pre-publication strategy is complemented by a formal
 post-publication review process, undertaken by a standing School Reading Committee who read
 all REF-eligible outputs. This process is intended as a research development tool, with formative
 feedback for improving future work. Our approach is repeatedly shared by the University as
 good practice for other Schools.

 Finally, we support quality research and building impact through encouraging and facilitating
 collaborations and generally contributing to the development of the discipline, as demonstrated
 in Section 4.

 Strategic Aim 3 (increase staff grant-holding experience and capacity) is addressed in Section
 3.2.

 Strategic Aim 4 (growing our research capacity in key areas) was addressed by the creation of
 three research groupings described below.

 1.3 Research groupings
 A key part of our post-REF2014 strategy was creating new research groupings to reflect the
 School’s research and impact strengths, provide more targeted support, and implement more
 concrete procedures and expectations to foster development and a sense of ‘ownership’.
 Reorganisation took place through negotiations and discussions with all staff to ensure the
 groupings truly reflected members’ research goals and needs. All staff belong to one of the three
 research groupings and some to more than one. The groups are broad enough to encompass
 the varied research interests of all colleagues yet specific enough to support our strategic
 objectives. The impact case studies included in our submission emerged from each of these
 groups.

 The Centre for Commercial Law and Financial Regulation (CCLFR) has its roots in our strong
 links with Henley Business School, with initial staff recruitment focused on delivering
 PGT commercial law courses. The Centre has developed to include leading researchers such as
 Devenney and Merkin and is now a thriving part of our research environment and identity. It
 has collaborations with external partners at home (Glasgow CREATe, Bournemouth CIPPM)
 and abroad (ALBA Business School in Greece, Singapore Management University, and the
 Australian National University – see Section 4). It presents two standing seminar series and
 organises regular high-level research events.

 Global Law at Reading (GLAR) harnesses our strengths in international law, a key strategic
 priority for our environment and identity. It has grown since 2014 to include scholars with a
 range of complementary interests and expertise, such as Freedman in international human
 rights and Schmitt in International humanitarian law, enhancing our reputation with a broad
 programme of standing seminars, symposia and publications ranging from award-
 winning monographs to non-traditional outputs such as podcasts. The excellence of its work has

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been recognised through prestigious awards (e.g. Hill-Cawthorne, the American Society of
 International Law Francis Lieber prize 2016 and the International Committee of the Red Cross
 Paul Reuter Prize 2017; Green, the European Society of International Law Prize 2017).

 Law, Justice and Society (LJS) recognises our longstanding strength in socio-legal studies and
 legal theory. It includes sub-groups on legal history, gender and sexuality, and legal philosophy,
 with members undertaking many joint projects within and across sub-groups. The legal
 historians organised the British Legal History conference (2015) and a Hamlyn Lecture with Sir
 John Baker (2019). Colleagues involved in Gender and Sexuality work contributed to the Great
 Debates in Gender and Law textbook and the Women’s Legal Landmarks project. The Rights,
 Justice and Legal Theory sub-group received a Modern Law Review seminar award to run an
 international workshop (2017) and sponsored two post-doctoral funding bids to Marie Curie and
 British Academy.

 1.4 Approach to Open Research and Research Integrity
 The School, as appropriate within our discipline, is moving towards a culture of open research,
 embracing the University’s commitment in this area. We have supported colleagues to ensure
 their publications comply with open access requirements, and where possible we have accessed
 University financial resources to secure open-access publishing not covered by funders. We are
 considering using metrics as one way to understand the reach and importance of our work. In
 2017-18 the Law Division implemented a Citation strategy, detailing expectations and providing
 guidance for utilising ORCID and Google Scholar profiles. Our expectations in this area adhere
 to the University’s statement on the responsible use of metrics. While metrics are still developing
 their importance in law, ours compare favourably against other Law Schools and demonstrate
 our work’s quality, importance and reach: at various points in the REF cycle over 40 per cent of
 our articles were in the top ten percentile journals, which was much higher than the sector
 average. Our field citation includes outputs with Altmetric scores in the top ten per cent of all
 outputs ever tracked by Altmetric.

 Within all of our grant applications and field work we follow the University’s Code of Practice in
 Research in terms of research ethics and data management. We provide support for colleagues
 and postgraduate students undertaking this work and consult with the Research Dean or the
 University’s central administrative support when queries arise (see Section 3.2).

 1.5 Looking ahead
 The Unit’s priority for research is to evolve an ambitious and sustainable process of
 achieving excellence in research through:
     (i) support for investigating and analysing important legal questions via mentoring, research
           policy and infrastructure;
     (ii) facilitating collaborations and networks in our fields via attendance at research events
           and assistance with grant capture; and
     (iii) wide engagement with academic and non-academic communities at home and globally
           via impact and engagement support and infrastructure.

 This priority is aligned with our vision for the Law School and is interrelated with and indivisible
 from our priority to achieve excellence in teaching, by providing students at every level with
     (i) the research-informed knowledge and skills they need to succeed in legal education and
          beyond, and
     (ii) a positive student experience, in which they are helped to achieve their potential.

 1.6 Impact of Covid
 When we went into lockdown in 2020, the Law School instituted weekly Teams coffee sessions
 in which, in addition to formal meetings, staff discussed openly and collegially such topics as the
 immediate impact on research time of online teaching delivery and personal circumstances; the
 detrimental impact on University-funded research leave arrangements; and the uncertainties
 around longer-term financial impacts and their effects on research time. The University’s


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 response to these issues is detailed in the COVID annex to the Institutional Environment
 Statement.

 2. People
 The Law School has 39.1 FTE academic staff. There are 28.5 FTE on teaching and research
 (TR) contracts, who (apart from Freedman) make up the UoA for the REF, 10 FTE on teaching
 intensive (TI) contracts, and 1 teaching-related (professional services) colleague. Our structure
 is very collegial, tasks are shared out equitably, and every individual has an equal voice. Unless
 bought out by external grants, all staff contribute to teaching core or large optional modules. The
 School’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM) operates consistently for all staff other than Early
 Career Researchers (ECR), who receive a reduction of 12% in hours for teaching and
 administration. Management and leadership roles are openly advertised and decisions are made
 by a team agreed by and led by the Head of School and including, as appropriate, RDL and/or
 School Director of Teaching and Learning and other relevant officers. Management and
 leadership roles are held as job-shares or with a deputy, allowing workloads to be shared and
 enabling less experienced colleagues to gain experience. Probationary colleagues consistently
 complete probation on time, their protected research time and mentoring having enabled them to
 produce monographs and articles in leading journals, join or lead collaborative funding bids, and
 undertake impactful and engagement activities.

 Teaching and research staff
 There are roughly equal numbers of female and male TR staff by headcount (14 women and 15
 men). Four women and four men are on part-time contracts, giving a ratio of 12.4 FTE women
 to 13.9 FTE men. Our permanent fractional appointments are a positive means to offer flexibility
 to colleagues who might not otherwise be able to work with us. There are 12 Professors (10.5
 FTE), excluding Nick Hopkins who is seconded to the Law Commission: 48% (5.2 FTE) women
 and 52% (5.6 FTE) men. There are 10 Associate Professors and 7 lecturers.

 Our policy of creating an environment where colleagues wish to remain or return has led to a
 high proportion of staff choosing to develop their careers at Reading. More than 15% of current
 staff held their first academic post here, including four Professors. Our recent lecturer
 appointments include two of our former PhD students, one of whom is returning from her first
 lectureship elsewhere. Reading is also an attractive workplace for incomers, leading to a
 research community that combines home-grown talent and the wide-ranging expertise of
 colleagues from all over the UK and the world.

 Recruitment. Our policy on staff recruitment is to appoint candidates who have produced or have
 the potential to produce the highest quality research and contribute to our research clusters,
 while also being able to deliver quality teaching, particularly on undergraduate core law modules.
 As a successful Law School, our undergraduate student numbers have inevitably grown during
 the REF period. We have been mindful of balancing priorities in a way that allowed us to retain
 manageable teaching loads, spread evenly across staff, thus giving everyone time for research.
 A key element of our recruitment strategy has been to recruit high-quality ECRs whom we can
 nurture and mentor through promotions, alongside a few strategic senior appointments. Since
 2019, we were able to make several TR appointments including five lecturers and four (2.5 FTE)
 research-leader Chairs (two in GLAR and one in each of the other research groupings). Three
 additional TR Associate Professors will start after this REF census date. Such a significant
 investment in Law at Reading demonstrates recognition of our achievements and strategic
 importance to the University.

 Staff development. The main mechanism for providing staff development and support is through
 the School’s annual Personal Development Review. Staff also have an opportunity to have a
 Personal Research Planning meeting if they or the School research leaders identify a need or
 desire for extra support, with follow-up taking place throughout the year. These processes have
 been instrumental in facilitating support for completion of monographs, leading articles, and
 successful funding bids. All staff are encouraged to attend relevant University and Law-specific
 training such as those on empirical method, impact work, Open Access, funding applications and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understanding and assessing for REF. The research groupings further staff development
 through weekly events in which those attending (including PGR, TI and sessional staff) engage
 with external or internal speakers and participate in Work-In-Progress sessions. Alongside the
 formal mechanisms, the relatively small size of our community enables informal support and
 mentoring to take place as a matter of course.

 Career progression. All new and probationary staff are required to undertake the University-
 level Academic Practice Programme (APP), which also leads to HEA membership. Formal
 mentors are allocated to ECRs and available for other staff. Mentors have proved helpful to
 those seeking promotion (e.g. Coe, Ziegler), newly appointed Chairs (e.g. Freedman), and new
 appointments to large administrative and management roles (e.g. Adebola). In 2014 we created
 the role of Director of Academic Career Progression in order to develop fairer and transparent
 promotions processes and improve the chances of candidates under-represented at senior
 levels. We recognised, for instance, that women were less likely to apply and more likely to be
 unsuccessful in promotion. Our practices, developed in-house by Law, have since been taken up
 across the university thanks to feedback and recommendations from our Director of Academic
 Career Progression (Zanghellini), and are now required in all Schools. This has led to
 considerable success for our staff seeking promotion, especially women (see Equality and
 Diversity, below).

 Research allowance. The School provides all part-time and full-time staff with an annual £1000
 research allowance, and additional funds ad hoc which are usually granted by the Head of
 School upon request. Colleagues use these funds for activities that support research, enhance
 reputations, and develop networks, ranging from conference presentations to hosting arts
 events.

 Research leave. During this REF cycle all TR staff were entitled to apply for one term or two light
 terms of research leave every 3 years to provide some focused research time. Proposed
 outcomes had to align with both individual and School goals, although we have always operated
 a flexible approach to what might be suitable, including outputs, grant applications, and
 developing new collaborative links. Follow-up reports must be submitted. Priority has been given
 to ECRs, those returning from parental leave, and those who have transferred from TI.

 Teaching intensive staff, sessional staff and visiting scholars
 There are 13 TI staff who, while not part of this UoA for our REF return, participate in research
 events internally and externally. Nine are women (three part-time) and four men (all full-time),
 making the FTE proportions roughly equal: 48.5% to 51.5%. They receive WAM hours for
 ‘scholarship’, which includes research, consultancy or outreach – for instance, Millmore acts as
 consultant to an ESRC-funded project on Access to Justice for Children with Autism Spectrum
 Disorders. Many TI staff write for leading journals, for example, D. Wilde in the Cambridge Law
 Journal and Trusts and Trustees. TI staff engage in pedagogical research with internal and
 external colleagues, sit on PhD monitoring panels and act as external examiners. We support
 and mentor TI staff who seek to develop their career to TR, as three staff in this submission
 have done. Likewise, some colleagues have moved from TR to TI (this is only ever done at their
 request) because it better captured their portfolio of interests.

 Sessional teachers are also an integral part of our research community. They include doctoral
 students, ‘retired’ law teachers, practitioners and judges, whose different expertise helps to
 shape the research environment by introducing colleagues and students to research areas and
 perspectives they would not otherwise encounter. They attend research seminars and many
 undertake research activities such as publishing (Buckley), participating in dissemination events
 (Duncan and Buckley in the Bebb play, see Section 4), and responding to government
 consultations (Box’s evidence to the Health and Social Care Committee).

 Also contributing to our culture are visiting scholars and external fellows from Asia, the Middle
 East and Europe. They include educators and legal practitioners (for instance, from Japan’s


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ministry of Justice and Turkey’s Prosecutor’s Office), whose work adds a practical element to
 our research.

 Doctoral students
 Our PGR community remained small for some time after 2014, with 32 new doctoral students
 joining between 2015 and 2018. Focused efforts to improve recruitment, the addition of new
 senior staff and the developing reputation of rising earlier career colleagues have led to many
 more applications, and we had 21 registrations in 2019-20.

 Over the past five years we have enrolled roughly equal numbers of male and female doctoral
 students (15 male to 16 female). They come from a broad range of nationalities (16 different
 non-UK nationalities in 2019-20), ethnicities, and religions/beliefs. Between 2013-14 and 2019-
 20 the proportion of UK BAME students increased from 18% to 27% and the proportion of non-
 UK BAME students almost doubled, from 33% to 64%. Twelve percent of our students in 2019-
 20 were disabled.

 Funding for doctoral study. Reading is a partner in two doctoral training partnerships: the
 ESRC-funded South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) and the AHRC-funded SWW
 (South West and Wales). We have a track record of successful applications to both: two ESRC
 PhD scholarships, two ESRC+1 scholarships, and three AHRC PhD scholarships. We currently
 have one internally funded Law School Graduate Teaching Assistant. Other doctoral students
 have received University bursaries and research studentships, including the Wilkie Calvert
 studentship and the regional studentship or external funding, including a Felix PhD Scholarship,
 a Modern Law Review Scholarship, a Government (Turkey) Scholarship.

 Supervision and completions. There have been 27 awards since 2014. Our completion rate has
 improved from 0.267 to 0.96 awards per FTE for REF 2021 thanks to proactive steps to take
 higher-quality students combined with committed supervision and our nurturing environment.
 After REF 2014 we developed more rigorous doctoral monitoring procedures and panels, which
 once again have influenced those adopted at University-level. The University’s interdisciplinary
 environment has enabled us to share supervisions with other Schools including Agriculture,
 Archaeology, Business, Environmental Science, Geography, Philosophy, and Politics, offering
 students opportunities to pursue high-quality interdisciplinary research but also helping to
 mitigate the challenges posed by our relatively small size and early career staff.

 Support for PGR students. Our doctoral students are integrated into our community, joining
 teaching teams as part of their career development and participating in research activities. The
 University provides a comprehensive programme of research training (see Section 3.6 of the
 IES) which we supplement with targeted Law sessions. Within the Law School we foster an
 inclusive community through regular lunches where doctoral students network with staff;
 inclusion in research events, some of which they host (e.g. Samuel and Bird convened the
 Gender and Sexualities seminar series) and contributions to projects (e.g. two PGRs contributed
 to a Festschrift in honour of Sandy Ghandhi). Students from Law received University and
 Research Themes PhD Researcher of the Year awards (Brookman-Byrne in 2017 and Bird in
 2020). We fund, or support those applying for funding for, attendance at conferences and assist
 those seeking post-doctoral opportunities. Since March 2020 we have run weekly Work-in-
 Progress online sessions for our PGR students.

 We encourage PhD students to publish peer-reviewed articles both in collaboration with staff
 (e.g. Green and Samuel, Journal of Conflict and Security Law) and independently (e.g.
 Brookman-Byrne in Netherlands International Law Review and the Journal on the Use of Force
 and International Law; Evans, Melbourne Journal of International Law), book chapters (e.g.
 Samuel in British Influences on International Law, 2016), and other outputs such as case notes
 (e.g. Kirkwood), blogs (e.g. Bagshaw), meeting reports (e.g. Bird), and podcasts.

 Outcomes. Our doctoral graduates are successful. Some have been appointed to lectureships in
 the UK (Brunel, Buckingham, City, De Montfort, King’s College London, Lincoln, Reading, Royal

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Holloway, Sheffield, Queen’s University Belfast), others to postdoctoral positions (Sussex) and
 research fellowships (Georgetown, Max Planck Institute for European Legal History) or to posts
 in their home countries (e.g., at the University of Windsor, Canada, and at the NGO CHAMA
 (Challenge Aids and Malaria in Africa). A former University Alumna of the Year went on to work
 at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.

 Taught students
 Reading prides itself on research-led teaching. Students benefit from being taught by leading
 experts on core modules, and options are delivered by active researchers whose teaching
 materials are based on their own research. Students are made aware of teachers’ research
 through posters in Foxhill House and across campus showcasing individual colleagues’ work. At
 each level LLB students may (and final-year and PGT students must) undertake a research
 project, with associated skills training. Undergraduates may acquire further research experience
 through the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (see Section 3), or through
 participation in research-related events (Section 4).

 Equality and diversity
 Our diverse student body is matched by a diverse staff including a wide range of nationalities,
 ethnicities, and religions/beliefs. We have more women by headcount, although a lower FTE of
 academics, and all colleagues have an equal voice. While we are a relatively young staff overall,
 we have colleagues in all age groups. Our succession-planning of appointing early career
 colleagues and focusing on career progression ensures that there is continued institutional
 knowledge and memory. We explicitly welcome fractional appointments and job-shares. Foxhill
 House is accessible for individuals with mobility disabilities, as is the rest of the campus.

 The University is committed to increasing gender parity. The School provides mentoring for
 promotion applicants and there is evidence that it has improved the promotions prospects
 (including to chairs) of our female staff: since its introduction there have been three times more
 applications by women and three times more success. We have family-friendly policies that have
 been taken up by female and male staff for flexible working and flexible contracts allowing
 colleagues to go part-time at their request. Meetings are held during children’s school hours, and
 timetabling allows flexibility for those with caring responsibilities.

 Contributions at university level. The University has a Dean for Diversity and Inclusion and the
 Law School has its own Diversity and Equality officer (job-shared by Adebola and Tryfonidou).
 Colleagues are committed to University initiatives: Adebola co-founded and co-leads the BAME
 Network, for which the School provides one day per fortnight protected time, and Tryfonidou and
 Ziegler are the School’s co-representatives on the University’s LGBT+ Network. We are visible
 at (and often host) diversity events across the university and beyond. For example, Zanghellini
 organised an interdisciplinary symposium on Queer Kinship and Ziegler convened a conference
 on LGBT+ asylum seekers, while Auchmuty spoke at events marking the anniversaries of the
 Wolfenden Report and repeal of section 28, as well as sessions on the Gender Recognition Act.
 Zanghellini organised the 2019 Wolfenden Seminar on transgender experience. The University
 is a Stonewall Champion and offers staff development opportunities based on Stonewall’s
 training. Four of our staff have participated in women’s development programmes including
 Aurora and Springboard. Female PGR students have been able to attend the women’s
 development programme Sprint.

 School initiatives. In the process of applying for the Athena Swan award a self-assessment team
 led by Thies (Deputy Head of School) was formed of volunteer staff and students. They
 assessed and devised action plans on gender equality and intersectional discrimination such as
 race, sexuality and disability. Among the many objectives identified was the need to raise staff
 awareness of equality and diversity issues, to implement these more fully in practice, to provide
 strategic overview, and to ensure representation of difference internally and externally. As part of
 implementation, the School instituted a series of events relating to teaching and research, often
 involving students, and a programme of activities including a symposium showcasing gender-
 related research (Section 4). A School Senior Management sub-group on Wellbeing, Equality

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Diversity was created to take ownership of the Athena Swan action plan including continuing
 the programme of equality and diversity events. School teaching seminars have included
 research focused on equality and diversity such as a presentation of research by a TI colleague
 (Conaghan) on gender participation in classrooms, and a session on Decolonising the Legal
 Curriculum organised by Windsor.

 Output selection. Our REF outputs were selected taking into consideration the diverse nature of
 our staff in terms of sex, race, age, stage of career and type of contract. As explained in Section
 1, we reviewed all relevant publications and assessed them using a combination of self and
 peer, and sometimes external, review. Once the ‘best’ outputs had been selected for REF
 submission, we measured the pool against race, sex and career stage and then, recognising the
 possibility of unconscious bias in the initial assessments. This led to some outputs being re-
 assessed (internally/externally) and to adjustment of scores. Our final output selection therefore
 fully reflective of the diversity of our staff. The University’s interim Equality Impact Assessment
 (2020) and bias analysis (2021) identified no statistically significant differences for protected
 characteristics in our selection.

 Well-being
 Staff well-being is a priority, with centralised well-being services available and additional support
 from the School being in place, such as in-house and external professional coaching for new
 Chairs and support for staff returning from extended periods of leave and during COVID-related
 closures. After we moved to remote working, the use of Microsoft Teams for research seminar
 series resulted in increased audience numbers and engagement. We plan to continue these
 seminars online beyond COVID-19 to facilitate participation of those who work part-time, have
 caring responsibilities or cannot travel, thus harnessing technology to remove barriers to
 engagement.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The School, Research Theme and University all provide complementary support and
 infrastructure for our researchers.

 3.1. Income
 Strategy. Research income generation and capacity for grant capture have been challenges for
 the Law School because of our relatively small size and early career staff. We have therefore
 focused on increasing the number and diversity of our applications and building capacity through
 training, support and a culture of identifying when and how funding will support and enhance
 people’s research. We support colleagues to start small (e.g. with BA small grants, Ziegler) or
 mid-sized (e.g. AHRC Network grants, Adebola) in order to develop expertise and a track record
 to support future funding bids, with the WAM and/or research leave creating space for
 developing larger bids. Researchers are also encouraged to join large funding bids led by
 colleagues from other Divisions or at other institutions. We have appointed staff (e.g. Freedman,
 Sato, Schmitt) with expertise in large grant capture to assist others seeking funding.

 Achievement. In 2014-15, the School was not awarded any external funding. Since then, there
 has been an average yearly capture of £78,329. Beyond continuing to apply to and receive
 grants from traditional sources such as the Research Councils (e.g. Adebola, Freedman, James,
 Smith), the British Academy (e.g. Krebs, Mantzari, Miglionico) and the European Commission
 (e.g. Sato, 2017), we have received grants from UK Charities (e.g. Sato, 2016); UK government
 (e.g. Freedman, DfID, 2020; Sato, FCO, 2017); UK law societies (e.g. Kyritsis, Modern Law
 Review, 2016; Ziegler, Society of Legal Scholars, 2016); EU-based funding sources beyond the
 EU government (e.g. Zanghellini, Volkswagen Foundation, 2017); international organisations
 (e.g. Almond, International Labour Organisation, 2017) and non-traditional sources of funding
 (e.g. Freedman, Folke Bernadotte Academy, 2017; Sato, Swiss Federal Department of Foreign
 Affairs, 2016). We have also seen an increase in applications from ECRs as PIs (e.g. Adebola)
 and as CoIs (e.g. M. Aronsson-Storrier).


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Research infrastructure
 School research administration. Within the Law School, a dedicated member of Executive
 Support supports the Research Committee’s activities, submissions to the University online
 repository, and all REF work in liaison with the School’s RDL and the UoA Lead.

 Support for funding applications and grant management. Within the University’s Research &
 Enterprise Services (RES), Research Development Managers (RDM) and Officers are allocated
 at Theme level to work with staff in research divisions to develop grant proposals. In Law, we
 have support from one RDM, one officer and one senior RDM. As well as providing costings for
 applications these officers facilitate workshops for idea development, hold drop-in sessions,
 comment on bid proposals and suggest improvements, hold events aimed at developing large
 multidisciplinary bids (e.g. ESRC Centres) and support interactions between members of
 different divisions to develop projects (successfully used by Hilson). External GCRF funding is
 available to the University to support new or ongoing projects, impact acceleration and as seed
 funding, which might lead to a grant bid or joint-writing of a large application (e.g.
 Windsor). There were dedicated staff in the EU Unit who supported all applications for European
 funding. Funding applications have been encouraged for Covid-19-related research, with recent
 submissions including a project on health and safety and tortious liability in a post-Covid age (M.
 Wilde and Almond).

 Within the School, details of open funding calls are circulated weekly by the RDL, and the
 School runs regular workshops on grant writing.

 Output management. The research output repository is managed by the Library, who advise on
 all Open Access issues at University, Division and individual levels. There is also a Research
 Publications Adviser, who provides advice and training on outlets and ways of publishing,
 including specific deals with publishers, and provides support for using bibliometric data and
 tools.

 Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme. The University’s UROP scheme offers
 undergraduate students the opportunity to gain paid research experience on projects by
 spending their summer working with an academic. UROP has supported many projects in Law
 e.g. on regulation of mental health in the workplace (James, Almond and Horton, 2018), EU
 external action and gender mainstreaming (Thies, 2019), and the implications for international
 law of heads of state and governments using Twitter (Green, 2020). The scheme contributed to
 outputs such as Green in the Virginia Journal of International Law and James co-authored with
 the student, Spruce, in Legal Studies.

 Support for Impact. While recognising that not all researchers’ work will have REF impact the
 University is committed to ensuring that all researchers have opportunities to effect meaningful
 social change. It has prioritised Impact in its centralisation of support and created a ‘Building
 Outstanding Impact Support Programme’ (BOISP) that offers, inter alia, training and mentoring,
 case study reviews and financial support (amounting to £30,500 for Law) for impact activities.
 The RES team provides dedicated Impact Development Managers, who for Law have provided
 key support, working with staff to develop REF impact case studies and build impact
 opportunities from other projects.

 We strongly encourage public engagement. With support from the Impact team and the
 University’s Research Communications team, the School runs workshops on impact and
 engagement, e.g. writing for The Conversation (30 articles published, 327,000 reads), media
 appearances, working with policymakers and practitioners, and showcasing work through the
 arts (Section 4). All TR staff are required to identify in their Annual Research Review any impact
 potential and how it might be incorporated into their research generally. The Division’s Impact
 Lead (Hilson) holds one-to-one meetings with every TR staff member undertaking or interested
 in impact and engagement activities. As a result, most of us undertake impactful activities, and
 Law colleagues have been awarded the University’s Impact and Engagement prize on three
 occasions (Krebs, Sato and Freedman).

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have our own research media officer (Coe), who works together with the central team to
 support events, website and other external activities. As a result, our work has documented
 impact at international, transnational, national and local levels (see Section 4).

 3.3. Facilities.
 Our facilities include comprehensive Digital Technology Services (DTS) whose support ensured
 that all activities took place successfully off-campus during lockdown. The university has a well-
 stocked library which remained open, with safeguards in place, throughout the period for
 students and staff. Law has its own dedicated Librarian who provides one-to-one assistance to
 staff and PGR students. Our proximity to London means that colleagues and doctoral students
 can also access the specialist Law Library at the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, where a
 Reading colleague (Auchmuty) is a Senior Associate Research Fellow and sits on the Library
 Committee representing non-University of London users. Our legal historians have good access
 to The National Archives in Kew, thus ensuring that our doctoral students in that subject enjoy
 first-class archival training.

 Most Law School staff are comfortably housed in our dedicated Law School building, Foxhill
 House, which, although a listed building with beautiful interior décor, is equipped with excellent
 facilities for work, meetings and socialising. A small number of the Commercial lawyers are
 located in a building closer to the Business School to make the most of the synergies with their
 work. Almost everyone has their own individual office and there are kitchens and a large
 common room, used (in better times) for research grouping meetings, networking conversations
 and socialising after seminars.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 A desire to reach out beyond the boundaries of Reading Law School is integral to our vision. We
 participate widely in national and international networks and events, with the School paying for
 those who wish to belong to the SLS, SLSA and ALT. We create local and global partnerships
 and collaborations and have mounted national and international events at Reading and abroad.
 We work with national and international bodies and the community generally in ways that take
 our research to the public and help to effect important societal and legal change. The examples
 in this section are illustrative evidence of our contributions to the discipline and society but are
 by no means comprehensive.

 Networks
 During the REF period, the School has strengthened its existing national and international links.
 Many of these emanate from our internal research groupings, which form natural links across the
 University and beyond. Colleagues, PGR and other students participate in these activities; and
 collegial interest and support, as well as practical assistance, are taken for granted. Reading
 colleagues have taken leadership roles in existing networks, established new networks, and
 organised and/or participated in the workshops, conferences and collaborative research and
 publications (for academic, practitioner or lay audiences) that develop out of them. We connect
 ECRs and PGR students with experienced researchers to integrate them into established
 networks and encourage them to form their own.

 The broad range of networks led or co-convened by staff demonstrates the breadth of our
 interests as well as our collegial research culture. The School houses two AHRC-funded
 research networks: the Commercial Law Research Network Nigeria (founded by Adebola,
 CCLFR) and the Sexual Violence and Peacekeeping Network (Freedman, GLAR). Staff head
 University Centres hosting multidisciplinary networks e.g. Hilson (GLAR) directed the Reading
 Centre for Climate and Justice, and convene international research networks e.g. Hill-Cawthorne
 (GLAR) co-convenes a network of international humanitarian law academics and practitioners.
 James co-founded the Families and Work Network with Busby (Glasgow); Auchmuty was Chair
 of the Research Committee for Sociology of Law’s Legal Professions Working Group 2014-2018.
 We have strong ties with leading legal networks (e.g. Coe is a research associate of the
 Information Law and Policy Centre at the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies). Our PGR
 students are encouraged and supported to take leading roles in networks, for instance, Cannilla

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 co-convened a 4-session workshop at the International Association of Legal and Social
 Philosophy World Congress 2019.

 Collaborations and partnerships
 The School encourages staff to engage in a wide range of collaborative projects that develop
 research and the discipline through collaboration within Law and across other disciplines. Krebs
 (LJS) collaborated with the School of Philosophy, UCD, to organise workshops and a textbook
 on Criminal Law and Philosophy. Freedman (GLAR) led funded projects (AGRC, BA, ESRC)
 with the School of International Relations at the Australian National University on the intersection
 of law and development studies, and Smith (LJS) organised a Modern Law Review-funded
 seminar series and edited collection on legal history as a tool of law reform. Staff are members
 of research teams focusing on topical and timely societal challenges, e.g. 'The Legal Treatment
 of Non-Performing Loans' (Miglionico, CCLFR), ‘Legal Expertise and EU Policy-Making’
 (Windsor, GLAR), and ‘Political Participation of Mobile EU citizens’ (Ziegler, GLAR).

 Some of our collaborative activities perform an important function in disseminating scholarship to
 a wider audience. Auchmuty (LJS) (with Rackley, Kent) coordinated the Women’s Legal
 Landmarks project which led to a book, website and programme of seminars involving
 academics, lawyers and judges. A major exhibition on ‘The judicial committee of the Privy
 Council: A Court at the Crossroads of Empire’ was organised by Smith (LJS) at the Supreme
 Court in London.

 Our collaborative publications help to develop a broad range of areas within the discipline,
 and we demonstrate our collegiality by involving colleagues at all levels. We have increased the
 number of co-authored publications written jointly by colleagues within the School (e.g. Green
 and Samuel, x2, 2017; Smith and Wilde, 2016). Two GLAR members edited the Research
 Handbook on Disasters and International Law (Edward Elgar, 2016) with contributions by seven
 colleagues alongside 21 other world-leading experts. Green (GLAR) co-edited Adjudicating
 International Human Rights (Brill, 2015) with chapters by four members of staff and two PGRs.

 Our collaborative publications cross disciplinary boundaries. Almond (LJS) co-authored (with
 historian Esbester, Portsmouth) several articles and a book based on research from their
 Institution of Occupational Safety and Health grant, and Krebs published an edited collection
 (2017) and a special issue of Criminal Law and Philosophy (2018) based on workshops she
 convened. We involve contributors from around the world: for example Auchmuty (LJS) co-
 edited Gender and Careers in the Legal Academy (Hart, 2021) with contributions from 19
 countries.

 International invited, roundtable and keynote speaking engagements
 Invitations to give keynotes and participate in prestigious events recognise the research
 distinction of colleagues. They also provide an opportunity for them to develop their networks
 and collaborations as well as to build impact and open avenues for further research work.

 Staff have given keynote addresses at home and abroad, e.g. Devenney (CCLFR) in Australia,
 France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Korea, Latvia and the UK. They have delivered
 opening keynotes at conferences, e.g. Green (GLAR) at the annual postgraduate conference on
 International Law and Human Rights, Tryfonidou (GLAR) at the Family in the EU conference
 (Swedish Network for European Legal Studies), Auchmuty (LJS) at the Marriage Equality
 conference (ANU); Lakin at the World Congress on Legal Philosophy (Lucerne). We have given
 annual lectures, e.g. Green (GLAR) 2019 to the International Law Association British branch and
 Hilson (GLAR) 2019 at the UCL Centre for Law and the Environment. We are regularly invited to
 mark key days in the calendar, e.g. both Freedman (GLAR) and Auchmuty (LJS) gave talks on
 International Women’s Day (in Amsterdam and Buenos Aires respectively). We are invited to
 address practitioner or mixed audiences (e.g. James to the UK Association of Women Judges
 on Feminist Justice) and to talk to them about our impactful work e.g. Newdick (CCLFR) on
 health equality issues (his impact case study) in UK venues and Helsinki. Colleagues are invited
 to take part in prestigious workshops, closed meetings and round tables on issues ranging from

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the regulators' meeting for the UK's pre-pack Pool (Adebola, CCLFR) to a closed discussion on
 the Oslo principles at Somerset House (Hilson, GLAR).

 Several colleagues have been awarded visiting and mentoring positions at institutions at home
 and abroad, which supports their research work and builds their networks. These include ECRs
 e.g. Aronsson-Storrier (CCLFR) at the Australian National University and Coe (LJS) at Pazmany
 Peter University in Budapest; colleagues with multiple positions e.g. Merkin (LJS) at the
 Universities of Auckland, Queensland and Sydney, the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and
 the Chinese University of Political Science and Law; and colleagues at specialist practitioner
 institutions e.g. Schmitt (GLAR) at the US Military Academy at West Point, the US Naval War
 College and the Strauss Center for International Security.

 Work with Key Stakeholders and Users
 Colleagues are encouraged and supported by the School to build impact and develop networks
 outside the academy through work with international organisations, public bodies and
 community organisations, internationally, nationally and locally.

 Thanks to their recognised expertise, colleagues play important roles in international
 organisations e.g. Freedman (GLAR) is a member of UN Secretary General’s civil society
 advisory board. We serve as advisers to regional bodies e.g. James and Horton (LJS) are UK
 gender equality law experts for the European Equality in Law Network, and to national
 governments: Hopkins (LJS) is on secondment from the Law School as a Law Commissioner;
 Schmitt (GLAR) is a member of the US Secretary of State’s Advisory Committee on International
 Law. We hold leading positions in prestigious expert bodies, e.g. Green (GLAR) is co-rapporteur
 and member of the Steering Committee of the International Law Association’s Use of Force
 Committee.

 The University and School are committed to serving Reading, our local community. Newdick
 (CCLFR) is a member of the Berkshire Priorities Committee and Honorary Consultant to
 Berkshire West PCT. We run local research projects funded by the University e.g. Thies (GLAR)
 working with local charities, and by local stakeholders e.g. Callus (LJS) leads a project funded
 by the Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust. We speak at local events e.g. Lakin (LJS)
 addressed English and German judges at Reading County Court, run local events based on our
 research e.g. Almond (LJS) ESRC Festival of Social Science, and speak to local audiences:
 Auchmuty (LJS) and Freedman (GLAR) deliver an annual talk at a local retirement community
 on current legal issues.

 Staff deliver training within and beyond our local community. Callus (LJS) trains local medical
 professionals, Merkin (CCLFR) gives an annual presentation to the Lloyd’s Market Association
 and regular training for insurance companies and brokers across 4 continents; and Schmitt
 (GLAR) delivers government-sponsored international cyber law courses for government officials
 from multiple countries.

 Colleagues routinely use their expertise to respond to consultations and thus influence social
 and legal development. Adebola (CCLFR) responded to the government consultation on the
 Corporate Insolvency Framework; Hilson (GLAR) to the DEFRA consultation on post-Brexit
 environmental principles; Krebs (LJS) to the CPS consultation on secondary liability; Callus
 (LJS) to the Law Commission’s consultation on surrogacy; and Auchmuty (LJS) and Freedman
 (GLAR) to the government consultations on the Gender Recognition Act. We also act as legal
 advisers to a range of bodies, local, national and international, helping to build impact and
 develop networks. Examples include: In CCLFR, Devenney has advised the Law Commission
 and the European Commission on consumer law and helped shape the Irish Law Reform
 Commission’s Fifth Programme of Law Reform; Coe chairs an Advisory Group on implementing
 a new regulatory scheme for IMPRESS, regulator of the UK press industry. In GLAR, Freedman
 has addressed the Scottish Parliament, Foreign Affairs Select Committee, Department for
 International Development, and European Parliament Sub-Committee on Human Rights; Hill-
 Cawthorne has advised FCO legal advisers; Hilson advises many NGOs including WWF,

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Greenpeace, Friends of the Earth; Windsor addressed government lawyers from DoJ, Home
 Office and the FCO on the ethics of legal advice; and Ziegler has advised the Scottish Refugee
 Council and worked with UNHCR. In LJS Krebs advises the Criminal Cases Review
 Commission and trains Case Review Managers and Commissioners; Almond advised the
 International Labour Organisation on progressive Occupational Safety and Health law; and PGR
 Cannilla addressed the Spanish political party Podemos on gender issues.

 Editorial boards, peer reviewing and research-led academic citizenship
 Engaging in editorial and peer review work contributes to developing our discipline and
 enhances our research standing nationally and internationally. All TR staff are encouraged to do
 so as part of their academic citizenship and to help develop their own research skills and
 collaborations, and it is testament to our collegial research culture that we use these positions to
 mentor early career colleagues, e.g. Devenney and Merkin encouraged a School ECR colleague
 to submit an article to the journal they edit, the Journal of Business Law, which was
 subsequently published; and one of Schmitt’s doctoral students co-authored an article published
 in International Law Studies journal.

 Colleagues have co-founded top journals in their fields e.g. Green (GLAR) co-founded the
 Journal on the Use of Force and International Law and remains one of three co-editors-in-chief;
 Thies (LJS) co-founded Europe and the World – a Law Review, the first peer-reviewed academic
 journal in the field of external relations. Staff are editors of journals, including from CCLFR,
 Communications Law (Coe); Journal of Business Law and International Journal of Financial
 Consumers (Devenney); Journal of Business Law, Insurance Law Monthly, Arbitration Law
 Monthly and Lloyds Law Reports (Merkin); from GLAR, Refugee Law Initiative’s Working Paper
 Series (Ziegler), and Journal of Environmental Law (Hilson). Many colleagues are members of
 editorial boards in their niche areas (e.g. Smith, Ecclesiastical Law Journal) or contracted case
 note writers (e.g. Krebs, Journal of Criminal Law) or book reviews editor (e.g. Smith, Journal of
 Legal History).

 Colleagues are committed to peer-reviewing for law journals, monographs, edited collections
 and textbooks, thus actively contributing to developing our discipline. These include the top
 generalist and specialist journals, with all staff conducting such reviews as a matter of course.

 Many colleagues act as panel members, peer reviewers, expert evaluators and referees for
 major funders. In the UK: the AHRC (Freedman is a gold-star reviewer), British Academy,
 Carnegie Trust, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, Natural Environment Research Council, and UKRI
 Future Leaders College. Abroad: Australian Research Council, Austrian Science Fund, Czech
 Science Foundation, Estonian Research Council, the European Commission and EU Research
 Executive Agency, German Academic Scholarship Foundation, Greek European Social Fund
 Coordination and Monitoring Agency, Icelandic Centre for Research, Irish Research Council,
 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship Scheme, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research,
 Research Council of Norway, Research Foundation Flanders, and the Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research Council of Canada.

 Colleagues also act as reviewers for doctoral studentship schemes. Hilson directs the
 Leverhulme Climate Justice doctoral programme. Smith is a reviewer for the SWW DTP and
 institution pathway lead for Socio-Legal Studies for SeNSS. Callus helped to develop the new
 SeNSS consortium framework. Ziegler has reviewed for the FSR Incoming Postdoctoral
 fellowships at UCLouvain. Colleagues (e.g. Zanghellini) have reviewed for other university’s
 PhD funding applications. The experience and insider-knowledge gained from these roles
 enables us to advise ECRs and PGRs on obtaining funding and publishing.

 Public Audiences
 Making our research accessible to public audiences helps to build impact and develop networks
 beyond academics and practitioners. Our Research Communications Lead (Coe) acts as conduit
 between the School and the University Research Communications team and helps colleagues to
 promote their research to the widest possible audiences including professional, industry, and

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 media. Staff are routinely sought out for their expert opinion by a range of media including local,
 national and international (e.g. Al-Jazeera, BBC Berkshire, Radio 4, World Service; CNN;
 France24; Guardian; Independent; Sky News; amongst many others). Many colleagues write for
 online outlets such as The Conversation, Media Law Podcast, Oxford Human Rights Hub, and
 the Huffington Post and are active on Twitter and other online fora in their field. Our research
 has also been showcased in the media e.g. Auchmuty’s Women’s Legal Landmarks project in
 the Law Society Gazette; Ziegler’s project on Jewish citizenship claims in the Jewish Chronicle;
 and Krebs’s work on criminal law on joint enterprise for a Guardian Long Read and a
 documentary film.

 Reading staff have engaged with the connections between law and the arts and humanities in
 many of their activities. Some examples are as follows: in 2016 Lakin was co-panellist with Lord
 Waldegrave, Chancellor of the University of Reading, at a post-performance production of the
 play, Regulation 18B. In 2017 a play by Alex Giles called 'The Disappearance of Miss Bebb',
 based on Auchmuty’s article in Legal Studies, was performed in Middle Temple featuring a cast
 of West End actors and senior judges, with further performances in 2018 in Birmingham and in
 2019 in our campus Minghella Theatre with a cast of Reading law students and staff. In 2018
 Auchmuty (with Cownie, Keele) ran a day conference on work-life balance and the arts, with a
 keynote by the Chairman of the Arts Council. In 2019 Hilson gave a presentation on climate
 justice to producers, script writers and editors and executives working on soaps (including
 EastEnders, Coronation Street, Doctors, Casualty, Emmerdale) at a BAFTA Soap Summit on
 climate justice. Zanghellini recently published a novel on Edward II based on research
 undertaken for his 2015 academic book, The Sexual Constitution of Political Authority.

 Research in the age of COVID-19
 Colleagues have responded to the challenge of pandemic and lockdown in a variety of ways.
 The University showcased examples of relevant research in law (Coe, Schmitt) and Hilson’s
 Centre for Climate and Justice. Schmitt (GLAR) presented on the international law implications
 of the pandemic in cyberspace in a virtual global workshop sponsored by the Cyber Peace
 Institute in April 2020. Freedman (GLAR) has advised the UN and the UK government on human
 rights implications of the pandemic. Almond (LJS) appeared on Newsnight discussing the UK
 government’s approach to Health and Safety issues in its programme of opening-up after the
 first lockdown. James recently sent a call for papers on Covid-19 and Vulnerability Theory for
 the International Journal of Discrimination and the Law.

 Teaching and research
 With teaching and research so closely aligned in our work at Reading, many of us are involved
 in teaching-related activities that draw on our research expertise. External examiner roles for
 PG and UG programmes, for example, may follow from research reputations. We act as external
 advisers and doctoral examiners nationally and internationally, and these activities lead to useful
 discussions about research projects and potential collaborations, with staff reporting that the
 links they have formed during such activities have led to invitations to speak at research events,
 to join collaborative projects, and even to do collaborative work with a person whose PhD they
 examined. This form of academic citizenship also pays dividends in bringing back the lessons
 learned to our own research and teaching. We write textbooks and teaching materials in core
 and specialist subjects and contribute chapters on our specific research areas to general
 textbooks in our fields. We focus on these areas to bring our research and research skills into
 all student activities because our students are our future, and the point of this work is to show
 them that law is a living body of knowledge about which it is possible to be excited and engaged.




                                                                                             Page 14
