Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Staffordshire University
 Unit of Assessment: UoA34: Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management
 Note: All names of people submitted in this UoA34 are in bold.
 1. Unit context and structure research and impact strategy

CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
This unit, together with its research centre, is the home of the University’s interdisciplinary research
in and with the creative and cultural sectors. Our research focuses on co-creation and co-
production, socially engaged practices, everyday creativity, and art and society, and investigates
and applies innovative new methodologies. We are guided by and support the University’s vision
for civic engagement as The Connected University, in line with our institutional strategic plan
(https://www.staffs.ac.uk/about/corporate-information/strategic-plan).
Our REF2021 submission includes researchers from two Departments: a) Media and Performance
and b) Games and Visual Effects. The University responded to the increasingly interdisciplinary
challenges facing economy and society by uniting creative and technical subjects, first in 2016 into
two Schools and, then, in 2020 into one large School. The structural focus on interdisciplinarity
benefits our research and the teaching environment by supporting cross-school collaborations that
address complex challenges through a cohesive university structure. As part of this cohesive
structure, Media and Performance and Games and Visual Effects now sit together in the School of
Digital, Technologies and Arts.
The C3 Centre: Creative Industries and Creative Communities Research Centre
(http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/c3centre/) provides a single overarching structure for academics working
in this unit (as well as UoA32 and other UoAs). The Centre attends to the creative and cultural
economic and creative society. It undertakes research “not ‘about the arts’ but ‘through the arts’” by
using arts methodologies in civic, industrial, and social contexts. The Centre provides a structural
framework for research that reflects the search for new conceptual and critical insights into
practices used by individual artists, collectives and creative thinkers who are passionate about
engaging, interacting and co-creating with their surrounding communities.
The C3 Centre includes three interlinked research themes covered by this unit. These themes
enable interdisciplinary research collaborations with staff from other units. Many staff in this unit of
assessment also contribute to more than one theme. Research in the areas of philosophy and
cultural studies provide a critical dimension to this activity, which extends through engagements
with a variety of problems in society, culture and cultural production. Our research themes and
their contributing staff are:
• Creative Practices in Film, Music and Media and Games:
                                      ESTIBEIRO, GRAHAM, MACCALLUM-STEWART,
                                      McKENNA, PAYLING, WEBLEY;
• Creative Economy (including creative industry):
                                     BOEHM, McKENNA, MACCALLUM-STEWART, RUDGE,
                                     STUBBS, FAIRBURN (UoA17), POWER (UoA32);
• Culture, Society and Communication (including philosophy):
                                    BOEHM, CHRISTIE, ESTIBEIRO, BURNHAM,
                                    GRATTON, MANSELL, SPEED, WEBB, PAYLING,
                                    BROWNSWORD (UoA32), FRANCIS (UoA32),
                                    NICHOLDS (UoA17), STURDY-COLLS (UoA15).
We have made considerable progress in our development as a sustainable research environment.
We have achieved a fourteen-fold rise in research income, going from GBP54,899 in the REF2014
period to GBP795,033 in the current REF period. We have doubled PhD completions from 12 in
the REF2014 period. 24 students have completed PhDs (including three based overseas and thus
outside the scope of the HESA return). In the academic year 2019-20 staff in this unit supervised
41 PhD researchers.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In the REF2014 period, we supported interdisciplinary research through two Research Centres,
focusing on applied creative thinking and on media, arts and technologies. These Centres brought
a wide range of expertise and creative thinking from across Art, Design, Humanities and Social
Sciences to bear on “solutions for social, community, cultural and business issues within our city
and beyond” (REF2014 REF5, UoA36). Their success led to our establishment of the overarching
C3 Centre. We have used the Centre to develop an environment conducive to thematic arts and
culture research and that supports diverse researcher-practitioner communities. Research by staff
associated with the unit includes work on creative methods supporting hardship communities,
creative industry co-production business models, emerging film clusters and their partnership
models, and the underpinning scholarly work on the co-production turn of the creative economy.


RESEARCH STRATEGY
Collectively, the Unit’s research spans and critically questions cross-thematic boundary concerns,
with interdisciplinary collaborations providing the synergies needed to address real-world
challenges.
•   Creative Economy: How is our cultural engagement evolving to emphasise co-production? Co-
    creation, co-production and co-ownership are central to this Unit and to the C3 Centre. We
    explore the theory and practice of widening access to the arts and allowing our innate need to
    be creative to drive social and economic resilience. BOEHM’s work (Outputs 3185, 3982) on
    arts-academic partnerships makes use of Sacco’s Culture 3.0 conceptual framework focusing
    on co-creation and everyday creativity, exploring the evolution of cultural engagement towards
    the co-production turn of the economy. The work applies ensuing critical insights in an Arts-
    Council funded leadership intervention. RUDGE (Output 3741) applies Etzkowitz’s triple-helix
    partnership models (state, industry, academia) to film-based production-practice to establish
    new models for creative industry clusters in second-order cities such as Stoke on-Trent.
    GRAHAM (Output List74) applies her model of film-production practices within civil society.
    She uses heritage-related filmic practices to enable people to gain personal attachments to
    places. STUBBS (Outputs 5233, 5329, 6117) explores all of these phenomena in his scholarly
    and critical work on the modern film industry.
•   Culture, Society and Communication: How can we use personal narratives more effectively for
    advocacy? THOMASON (Output List36) worked with local communities to co-create new
    knowledge of local heritage related to modern day circus, and to co-curate exhibitions
    showcasing this knowledge’s national and international significance. SPEED (Output List82)
    uses photography to investigate and document activist communities, drawing attention to
    diverse narratives within protestor communities who are often otherwise stereotyped. In
    GRATTON’s work (Output 3145), between 2013 and 2020 Staffordshire University supported
    five participatory action research projects using her novel creative methods to explore ways of
    involving diverse communities in formal academic research (Get Talking, see also Impact Case
    Study). GRATTON’s research was co-created with 79 community-based researchers.
•   Culture, Society and Communication: What is the role of knowledge in the aesthetic
    appreciation by society? WEBB (Outputs 3658, 2991, 3654, 6133) examines the philosophy of
    communication in the work of Michel Serres. He considers how this philosophy changes the
    ways we understand knowledge, information, and the temporal and spatial characteristics of
    identity and belonging. BURNHAM’s work (Outputs 3456, 3458, 4454) investigates the deeper
    transdisciplinary nature of aesthetics as a way of explaining the influence of knowledge and
    context on our appreciation of culture. WEBB and BURNHAM’S work shares an interest in
    how we understand the local and the global in view of the connection between social, political
    and geographical environments. MANSELL’s work (Output 2195) combines theory and
    practice to explore how verbal and typographical expression can generate a sense of place, for
    example by translating knowledge specific to the local practice of ceramic glazing into a poetic
    form.
•   Creative Practices in Film, Music and Media and Games: What are novel digital solutions for
    immersive audience engagement? ESTIBEIRO (Outputs 3559, 4794, 4881) and PAYLING
    (Output list70) are producing more immersive experiences through interactive sonic / visual

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    installations. MA’s research (Output 4471) has advanced design methods for mixed reality
    applications. MacCALLUM-STEWART (Output 3596) addresses the role of play in our digital
    economy. ZIOGA’s work (Output 4289) used innovative digital solutions to widen access to arts
    and culture by producing new research and use methodologies in the area of brain-computer
    cinematic performance.
Our research is central to the strategic direction of Staffordshire University as a Connected
University. We target interdisciplinary collaborations to support institutional strategic priority areas,
such as health and wellbeing, economic development, creative and cultural industries and the
applied social sciences.
To continue the C3 Centre’s sustainable development, a key strand of our impact strategy is to
form close partnerships with the region’s cultural actors. We develop research toward impactful
culture-led regeneration. Our staff base has long-standing partnerships with external creative and
cultural organisations and has had substantial successes in attracting both enterprise and research
funding.
Our five-year strategic plan is closely aligned to the University’s vision to support the creative
economy and cultural engagement of Stoke-on-Trent with its heritage-rich spaces. As part of this
strategy, we have been heavily involved in strategic regional partnership activities that use our
research to support culture-led regeneration, benefiting our total impact.
Strategic projects and ongoing initiatives for the next 5 years include:
Culture, Society and Communication:
•   Using research to support regeneration of areas of Stoke-on-Trent through creative and
    cultural engagement: GRATTON will continue in her work on participatory methods (see Get
    Talking Impact Case Study) and will focus on applying creative methods to our Connected
    Communities Framework and our Civic University mission. GRATTON leads our work on
    establishing the institutional civic university agreement, in line with the UPP Foundation Civic
    University Commission.
Creative Economy:
•   Regeneration through innovation-led growth by working in partnership with the Chamber of
    Commerce and City authorities to strengthen the creative economy: The European Regional
    Development funded Mentoring Growth / Factory project (2014 – 2022) uses BOEHM’s current
    work on Culture 3.0 co-production models. The project empowers creative industry SMEs to
    consider and strengthen their economic resilience through their own business models and skill
    sets. RUDGE’s work continues to support the growth of our creative film cluster in the region,
    as inaugurated with the establishment of the academia-industry PLATFORM group in 2016
    (https://www.platformstaffs.com/).
•   Placemaking and the Creative Sectors: BOEHM’s work provides the critical foundation of a
    three-year ACE funded Leadership Programme, Create Place (2019 – 2022,
    http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/createplace/). This programme ensures that in the post-COVID
    recovery we have a growing number of confident cultural leaders drawing on co-creation and
    placemaking methods to support regional communities and the creative and cultural sector.
Creative Practices in Film, Music and Media and Games:
•   We are developing several creative research projects with the intention of foregrounding the
    region’s culturally unique placemaking practices. Projects include work to plot, for the first time,
    the lifecycle of Peter Cheeseman’s socially engaged theatre practice, drawing also from the
    unique special collection of original manuscripts and recordings held at our library (see
    resource section). This work will help us to understand the role of Cheeseman’s practice in
    influencing the region’s cultural life to be predominantly participatory. BOEHM and NICHOLDS
    (UoA17) are co-leads on an ERASMUS+ funded project that applies their research to allow
    emerging creative practitioners to devise intentional identities as part of their professional
    career development, using film-making and audio practices.


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Over the next five years, we are on track to achieve:
   • a 25% increase in average annual income (from GBP113,576 to GBP141,970).
   • a 20% increase in HESA-reportable PhD student completions over the 5-year period
       (26 completions by 2026)
   • growth in FTE of 25% (to 18.25 by 2026).

IMPACT STRATEGY
Our C3 Centre vision drives our impact strategy: “Our aim is to be instrumental in allowing our
research to inform and influence local and regional policies to ensure creative economy and
creative potential of individuals can drive regeneration of the city”.
We frequently focus our research activity on providing support for regionally impactful creative and
cultural practices. This has been recognised nationally and internationally as providing transferable
models of creative and cultural practices for regeneration, economic, and well-being agendas.
Creative Practices in Film, Music and Media and Games:
•   GRAHAM’s Production House, which works with communities in France and the UK, has
    international reach as a distinctive film-based co-production practice bringing stories from WW1
    and WW2 to new audiences using different media approaches. It has been featured on the
    BBC, The History Channel and ITV.
Creative Economy:
•   RUDGE’s partnership work on the creative economy and creative clusters (PLATFORM) has
    received international recognition, as evidenced by an invited membership of the United
    Nations Creative Economy Expert Group (Geneva, 2019) and by an invitation to address the
    EU Cluster Conference (Bucharest, 2019).
•   BOEHM’s work on economic co-production as part of a new type of cultural engagement has
    led to her being a founding member of Stoke-on-Trent’s Cultural Compact, which supports
    culture-led urban regeneration.
Culture, Society and Communication:
•   THOMASON’s Philip Astley project (one of our Impact Case Studies), attracted an audience of
    27,000 to view the new knowledge on circus history that we co-created with the local
    community.
•   GRATTON’s Get Talking model allowed communities facing hardship to co-produce research
    alongside academics. It was used in the UKRI funded project 'Enhancing place-based
    partnerships in Public Engagement' project: How to 'Keep Talking': sustainable research teams
    in deprived areas (2019). The project’s findings are informing HE sector responses to national
    priorities around the civic role of universities. GRATTON’s research was co-created with 79
    community-based researchers, who in turn reached and involved over 2500 participants.
Over the last and current REF assessment period, we supported our artist-researchers to connect
to the wider society and economy by developing the Staffordshire University Fringe Festival. This
ran annually from 2012 – 2016 (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/fringe/) with yearly audience figures of ca.
500 (see 2016 University Quarter Impact Report
https://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/fringe/files/2017/05/University-Quarter-Report-Jan-June-2016.png). In the
current REF period, we expanded and morphed our support into creating and contributing to
transformational partnerships. Two of our local partners achieved Arts Council national portfolio
status in the REF period (British Ceramics Biennial (BCB), Beaver Arts (B-Arts)), joining another
longstanding ACE portfolio holder and our partner in several projects, the New Vic. Our
longstanding partnerships with creative and cultural institutions, including BCB, The New Vic, B-
Arts, Appetite, and The Potteries Museum and Gallery, underline our connectivity with the region.
We see ourselves working also in partnership with Keele University’s Arts & Humanities
Communities, and its Keele Deal Culture.
By providing consultation on cultural strategies, sitting on trustee boards and co-curating events,
we work with our partners to support and co-create the Stoke-on-Trent cultural calendar:

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
• GRATTON led on the evaluation of the first four years of Appetite (see our Impact Case Study),
  contributing to the success of this annual arts festival (https://www.appetite.org.uk/about/). In
  the assessment period, Appetite has engaged more than 400,000 audience members and
  50,014 participants, 1189 artists and 1501 volunteers;
• We work in partnership with other city cultural events, including the Big Feast
  (https://www.appetite.org.uk/event/bigfeast19/) and the Keele University led Stoking Curiosity
  (https://www.keele.ac.uk/discover/artskeele/stokingcuriosity/);
• Together with BCB and the North Staffordshire Chambers, BOEHM runs the ERDF funded
  Mentoring Growth Programme that specifically supports the region’s creative economy
  (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/c3centre/projects/factory/ ). In 2020, this project adapted SME focused
  funded knowledge-transfer programmes to support Covid19 resilience and post-pandemic
  recovery strategies. It reached over 200 individual creative enterprises in 2020;
• Unit staff continue to be significantly involved in strategic initiatives, including the 2017
  developments for Stoke-on-Trent’s submission to become UK City of Culture 2021
  (GRATTON) and the city’s 2019 strategic Channel 4 regional hub bid (RUDGE).
Our work has helped Staffordshire University to become known as a creative force for North
Staffordshire and Cheshire East. We support our researchers to contribute their expertise to the
region’s civil society and creative industries. This support has enabled GRATTON’s work on the
University’s Connected Communities Framework; RUDGE’s initiative PLATFORM - a creative
cluster of more than 100 film and media companies in North Staffordshire; and BOEHM’s
leadership of one of the ACE funded Leadership Programmes for the Creative and Cultural
Sectors, Create Place (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/createplace/). The Create Place partnership
includes 16 regional and national creative partners, including BCB, B-Arts, Keele University,
Cheshire East Local Authority, Stoke City Council, The Audience Agency, Voluntary Arts, Arts &
Heritage and others. It implements BOEHM’s underpinning research into Culture 3.0, co-creation
and creative partnership models.
We have supported culture-led change by being researcher-artists and cultural leaders, and by
allowing our research to interface with the region. Our work is contributing to Stoke-on-Trent
coming to be known for its creative offer and social values. In 2020 we were a founding member of
the city’s new cultural compact, “Stoke Creates” (https://www.stokecep.co.uk/stoke-creates/) and
our staff sit on its board (BOEHM).


 2. People
STAFFING STRATEGY
The Unit includes researchers at all stages of their careers, including eight professors and
associate professors, seven senior lecturers and lecturers. One member of staff is an Early Career
Researcher (ECR). Since REF2014 five new members of staff have been recruited (BOEHM,
MACCALLUM-STEWART, MCKENNA, SPEED, and STUBBS), one promoted to Professor
(BOEHM) and four promoted to Associate Professorship (MACCALLUM-STEWART, GRAHAM,
ESTIBEIRO, and PAYLING).
Progression to Associate Professor and Professor is managed through an annual University-wide
conferment process overseen by a Professorial Conferment Committee, chaired by the Vice-
Chancellor (see REF5a). Mentoring and advice is provided to support staff in their professional
development and specifically for applicants prior to and during the conferment process itself. New
members of staff and ECRs are mentored within research groups. Other senior staff with
responsibility for research provide further mentoring to junior colleagues.
20 Visiting Research and Enterprise Fellows have contributed to the research environment of this
Unit and its outputs. Four were Visiting Professors. Although not returned in REF, the Visiting
Fellows produced 39 scholarly outputs, including 12 publications in refereed journals. Through the
Visiting Fellows programme, the Unit has established links to leading figures in the creative sectors
(e.g. senior management of Games Dragons, DPD Group and BCB).


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
From 2019 research in the unit has benefitted from the introduction of Associate Deans for
Research and Enterprise (ADRE) in both the School of Creative Arts and Engineering (DODD
(UoA12)) and the School of Computing and Digital Technology (SEKER (UoA3)), then coming
together in 2020 as School of Digital, Technologies and Arts. With the Deans of School, the
ADREs engage at University level with Research Innovation and Impact Services (RIIS) to support
and develop the conditions for high quality research. The ADREs represent research interests on
School Management Teams and School Academic Committees. Their representation ensures that
research is at the heart of all decisions made at School level that concern teaching, support
structures, provision for postgraduate researchers, and facilities.
The unit benefits from the University’s commitment to fairness and equality in the management of
its staff. As detailed in REF5a, there is a flexible return to work policy and staff can move easily
between full and fractional posts. From April 2020 a new institutional blended work policy allows
staff to work flexibly between home and the University.
As set out in REF5a, research time is ringfenced so that all staff submitted to this unit are allocated
a minimum of 20% of their contractual hours for research. Staff in the unit receive financial support
from the Schools to attend conferences. They receive regular updates on research funding
opportunities in their area from a specialist team in RIIS, which provides support for bid
preparation. Periods of cover for teaching and other responsibilities can be arranged to free up
staff for bid-writing. Prior to submission, all bids are reviewed by experienced research staff drawn
from across the University.
The University (see REF5a) and the unit both emphasise the importance of connections to local
and regional businesses and communities. The University has invested in VV Impact Tracker
software and a new permanent post of Impact Manager was introduced in 2017. Training is
available for using this system to track research impact, and our impact case study authors
(GRATTON) and key staff (BOEHM, GRAHAM, and RUDGE) have benefited from this support by
tracking their projects’ impacts. GRATTON and RUDGE have received impact acceleration funding
to further impact activities. Additional targeted support is available in the form of time released from
other duties. Assistance in compiling impact evidence can also be accessed via PDRs or through
the School Managers.


RESEARCH CULTURE AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
As described above, the unit’s research culture is distinguished by its long-standing collaborative
partnership work with the region’s cultural and creative actors. This emphasis on partnership work
supports a significant number of practice-as-research events for both an academic and a public
audience. The unit includes the Music and Sound Research Cluster, led by ESTIBEIRO and
PAYLING; the Film Research Cluster, led by GRAHAM and RUDGE; the Connected Communities
Framework Group, led by GRATTON; and the Games Publishing, Production and Artistic Studies
Cluster, led by MACCALLUM-STEWART and WEBLEY.
Staff and postgraduate researchers in Music and Sound collaborate closely and the primary
showcase for their work is the annual event NoiseFloor UK: Experimental Music and Moving Image
(https://noisefloor.org.uk/), led by ESTIBEIRO and PAYLING. This event, established by staff and
PGRs at the University in 2010, has grown into a two-day event combining music, moving image,
and academic papers. Each year it features more than thirty theoretical papers and performances
by students, staff and participants drawn from across Europe, Asia and the Americas. NoiseFloor
participants include such well known academic-artists as Simon Emmerson (UK), Simon Zagorski-
Thomas (UK), Ricardo Dal Farra (Canada), Hiromi Ishii (Japan), Antenor Ferreira (Brazil), and
Wilfried Jentzsch (Germany).
Games Publishing and Production staff hold a bi-weekly research session for all PhD students.
The work developed through this programme has led to PGR co-publication with staff and input
into funding bids. The Cluster’s work into understanding emergent sectoral needs has led to us
devising the UK’s first E-Sports degree, which is offered at our sites in London and Stoke-on-Trent.
This degree expanded our interdisciplinary culture by combining our research into immersive
media and the gaming industry with event-based expertise from the University’s Staffordshire
Business School.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The unit also encompasses research in Continental Philosophy, with a well-established base of 10
PGRs. Since the beginning of 2014, staff and PGRs in Philosophy have collaborated in organising
four research conferences and a research workshop. These have included a two-day conference
on Kant, Judgement and Recent French Philosophy (December 2015, as part of an AHRC funded
Research Network based at Royal Holloway) and events on theology and psychoanalysis, and on
contemporary philosophy and entropy (April 2014 and May 2016 respectively). In 2020,
Staffordshire hosted the annual conference of the Society of European Philosophy as an online
event over two weekends with over 100 people attending and international keynote speakers.
We provide all staff with central and School-level training in a wide range of areas including
research ethics, GDPR, diversity, digital skills and pedagogical practice. These sessions are
delivered as part of the University’s annual research training programme, organised by RIIS in
conjunction with the Schools. Within the unit, we organise peer-to-peer subject-specific training on
topics such as practice-as-research, PhD supervision, and REF skills including writing research
statements, submitting portfolios, developing research impact in the arts and humanities, and using
social media for research impact.
The School of Digital, Technologies and Arts holds monthly research seminars for staff and PGRs
to present their work and to meet informally. These events build an interdisciplinary, collaborative
research atmosphere. Recent topics delivered by staff and PGRs from our unit included the legacy
of theatre maker Peter Cheeseman’s “Stoke documentary method”, the role of producer and
director in contemporary film making, and layering methods in the contemporary
Gesamtkunstwerk. Staff and postgraduate researchers also share their work at the annual
University Staff Research Conference, which includes the Postgraduate Research Conference.
Other public facing events connected to the Unit and with a focus on innovative practices often
have a research element to them, attracting young creative professionals, early career
researchers, practice-as-research practitioners, as well as external audiences. These events
include the MA Arts & Design Show, the Annual Comic Con, the Annual Film Festival, and the
Annual Theatre Festival.
All these events provide staff and PGRs with valuable experience in presenting their work to
others, and in engaging critically in an interdisciplinary setting.


POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH
Over the period covered by REF 2021, there have been 21 PhD completions in the unit, with an
addition of three Distance Learning Philosophy PhDs completions. The total of 24 completions is
double the completions reported in the last REF period. It is testament to the significant
improvements in the research environment and culture within the unit and the wider University.
In July 2020 there were 53 PhD PGRs based in the unit, including 15 Distance Learning PGRs. We
support PGRs from a diverse range of backgrounds and careers. 25% of the PGRs in the unit are
EU or international students and 55% are part-time.
The rise in the number of PGRs since REF2014 is in part the result of efforts to widen the pool of
active postgraduate research supervisors in the Unit. We encourage our staff to complete the
training in postgraduate research supervision provided by the Graduate School. Over the REF
period, we have emphasised research supervision skills as part of staff professional development.
53% of our staff act as principal supervisors. Wherever possible all staff are involved in
supervision. Since REF2014, staff in UoA34 have made a significant contribution to the research
culture of the university through institution-wide roles: BURNHAM served as Director of the
Graduate School from 2015 to 2019 and ran Induction Days for all PGRs. WEBB has led the staff
training programme in research supervision since 2012.
The Graduate School provides a comprehensive Induction Day for all new PGRs within the unit as
part of the general University induction. Schools and research teams offer support tailored to PGR
needs at disciplinary and individual levels. The Graduate School oversees formal procedures for
progress review, including three major stages of annual review. These reviews are co-ordinated
with the unit and the School. The candidate submits a report on their work that serves as the basis
for a progression meeting with a panel of academics.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGRs in the unit have their own places to work fitted out according to their needs. These include
work and social spaces shared with other PGRs, computers, and printers. Any specialised
technology required for PGR projects is supplied and housed where appropriate.
Each School has a research seminar lead, offering additional opportunities for students and staff to
discuss various research projects by both staff and students. We encourage PGR students to take
advantage of these events in order to establish connections with researchers in different subject
areas. These research connections help to develop communication between researchers in
different areas, which is vital to our unit’s interdisciplinary research culture. The Graduate School
organises weekly socials, and the Student Union has also a PGT and PGR focused programme of
activities.
In addition to overseeing the administration of all postgraduate research degrees, the Graduate
School provides professional development for PGRs in the form of workshops as live and online
events, also available as archived resources and as part of a partnership with University of East
Anglia’s online researcher training programme. These events support PGRs with their research
projects and their wider development as researchers. They include sessions on writing literature
reviews, creating methodologies, writing for publication, organising small conferences, networking
effectively, and preparing for life after the PhD. As supervisors we enhance this support through
project- and discipline-specific researcher development in line with the VITAE Researcher
Development Framework.
We have particular strength in distance learning at PGR level. Around 30% of our PhD students
study through blended and distance learning supported supervision. The University provides all
academic staff with “Staffs Way” training on how to use online platforms and resources to support
undergraduate and postgraduate students. Supervision often happens on MS Teams, with
document management and video conferencing being a full part of the distance learning
experience. Similarly, on Blackboard, supporting materials and resources are available with a
permanent meeting room or virtual common room for drop-in social experiences online.


EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY IN UOA34

  Diversity    Female       Male      Disability   No Disability   BME White
                 32%        69%          7%            93%          14%    86%
Since REF2014 the gender balance has improved significantly, with a doubling of the percentage
of female staff involved in the submission. The number of outputs by female staff is consistent with
their profile in the staff group as a whole. In addition, BAME staff make up 14% of the staff group
but have contributed 22% of the outputs, indicating that their work has been highly valued.
The unit subscribes fully to the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Framework, which sets
out objectives to embed equality, diversity and inclusion into all aspects of the University life of
students and staff (see REF5a). The institution recruited a dedicated lead of Head of Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in 2017, reporting directly to the Chief Operating Officer. Staff from
this UoA have engaged with the Head of EDI considerably, allowing co-creation research methods
such as Get-Talking (GRATTON) to benefit processes around EDI.
The unit contains dedicated projects that have equality and diversity aspects in their remit, such as
the ACE funded Transforming Leadership project Create Place (BOEHM) aiming at diversifying
leadership in the creative sector. The Head of EDI sits on the Advisory Boards of this project to link
the university diversity strategy to specific project outcomes. Staff in the UoA were involved in
devising University-wide policy and procedures relating to Equality and Diversity. GRATTON and
BOEHM both sit on the EDI working group.
The unit has also made progress on ensuring female academics are supported and encouraged,
and 3 of the 5 promotions to Professor (BOEHM) and Associate Professor were women
(MACCALLUM-STEWART, GRAHAM). The University has supported the development of
leadership skills amongst its female staff through Advance HE leadership training, benefiting



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
BOEHM and GRATTON. As mentioned above, BOEHM has since won funding to lead a
leadership programme herself, specialising in the creative sector.
The University has a number of policies to support staff to maintain a good worklife balance,
including managing care responsibilities. In 2020 a blended working policy was introduced,
allowing flexible workplace arrangements between home and office. The Unit helps staff returning
from long periods of leave are supported to rebuild their research activity. We ensure that any
phased return includes agreed portions of research time. Where additional time or training is
required to update skills, this is agreed through the School. Staff with protected characteristics are
supported in their research via an assessment of their specific needs (e.g., in terms of technology
or software required, and appropriate forms of collaboration with research colleagues).


 3. Income infrastructure and facilities
INCOME
During this REF period the unit has substantially increased its income, receiving GBP795,033
HESA reported research income, from less than GBP55,000 in REF2014. Awards include more
than 30 externally funded projects. Notable research funding successes include GBP135,000
(BOEHM, 2019) and GBP13,000 (ESTIBEIRO, 2019) from Arts Council England, GBP88,000 from
the Heritage Lottery Fund (THOMASON, 2017), GBP38,000 from the AHRC (2014), GBP37,000
from UKRI (GRATTON, 2019), and a GBP9,000 Leverhulme International Fellowship award to
BOEHM (2019). We have secured GBP442,000 from the European Commission within the period,
enabling collaborative EU research activities.
In addition, staff in the unit carried out knowledge exchange activities during this REF period to
support the development of impact, demonstrating the application of new knowledge in creative
sectors and communities. The total value of these projects is more than GBP166,000. Our KE
projects include funding from: the Arts Council, GBP136,000 for Appetite Evaluation (GRATTON,
see Impact Case Study); and the ERDF, GBP22,000 for the Creative Industries Innovation-led
training Mentoring Growth/FACTORY Programme (BOEHM).
We strategically increased income over the REF period in order to support impact activities and co-
produced research. Staff in the unit receive regular updates on research funding opportunities via
the institutional subscription to Research Professional through RIIS. RIIS also provides regular
briefings on funding and policy and access to intelligence on the external funding environment.
As described in Section 2 (People) above, RIIS supports bid-writers, and all bids are peer reviewed
prior to submission by experienced research staff drawn from across the University. The
introduction of the ADRE role has provided additional support and mentoring. We use a cross-
school cohort approach for writing externally-funded research proposals, which provides our
academics tailored support from both an ADRE and the pre-award team in RIIS. Following an
institutional selection process, three staff from within the unit have received comprehensive bid
development support, career mentoring and peer review feedback to prepare research proposal
submitted to UKRI and the British Academy.


FACILITIES
We integrate our subject specific facilities into research, innovation and teaching together, drawing
on specialist support from dedicated technical services that balances the needs of our learning,
researching and innovation communities. This connectedness allows our emerging and established
talent to use state-of-the-art prototyping facilities while building contacts and shared opportunities
with our research and innovation communities and partners.
Our purpose-built facilities include:
• a suite of music studios of differing size, with interconnecting audio and video lines
• a suite of broadcast studios, both sound and video
• a suite of film studios, live rooms, blue-screen rooms, and post-video production
• a suite of digital media including games, 3D scanning, VR/AR and postproduction
• a suite of 3D printing, laser printing, and high-quality photo printing facilities

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   a virtual learning environment (including Blackboard, MS Teams, and other software) supporting
    distance learning, distance PhD supervision and communication for international research
    collaboration.
Our library holds various special collections that support our research:
The Victoria Theatre Collection is a major resource for Theatre and Social researchers, PGRs,
and historians including CHRISTIE, ESTIBEIRO, PAYLING, and BOEHM. The collection archives
four decades of material from Peter Cheeseman’s Victoria Theatre Company, spanning theatre
production, documentary research and community work carried out between 1962 and 1998. The
documents, photographs and tape-recordings contained in the collection offer unique research
opportunities unavailable through other theatre archive collections.
The Iris Strange War Widows Collection comprises personal and official letters and documents
relating to the economic and social positions of World War II widows (and some material relating to
World War I). This collection has been used in research projects by GRATTON, EMADI-COFFIN,
and GRAHAM.
The Local Studies Collection includes materials relating to the history and geography of Stoke-
on-Trent and Staffordshire; e.g., parish registers, local history tracts, and gazetteers. This
collection has been key to GRAHAM’s research.
The Ceramic History Collection brings together a variety of materials in the history of ceramics,
catalogues, autograph manuscripts, and administrative records dating from industrial British and
European ceramics production c. 1860-1930. It supports research by BROWNSWORD (UoA32),
and PhD projects by BOEHM and POWER (UoA32). The collection is a significant archive of the
University’s connections to the region’s historic ceramics industry.
The Mining Collection, used by staff contextualising their research into a historic regional context
(BROWNSWORD (UoA32), THOMASON), contains a wide variety of materials including journals,
maps, surveys and books that have come down from the early nineteenth century. It contains
predominantly UK materials (e.g., records from the Hem Heath and Silverdale Collieries and the
National Coal Board), but also includes a number of items relating to the United States, Japan,
Australia and Canada.


OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
The University organises outward facing events such as Profs in the Pav (the Pav being a publicly
accessible university café pavilion area on campus, https://www.staffs.ac.uk/events/webinars/profs-
in-the-pav) and Profs in the Pub where senior researchers present their work to the public. The
sessions attract 50 – 150 attendees each. To help with COVID19 lockdown, the
#WednesdayWisdom series (https://www.staffs.ac.uk/news/2020/05/academics-share-
wednesdaywisdom-to-navigate-lockdown) was initiated, linking expert insights to practical advice
relevant for various communities. The BOEHM-led ERDF funded project Mentoring
Growth/FACTORY (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/c3centre/projects/factory/) links innovation and new
knowledge to current creative and business opportunities for the creative industries.
Research works in concert with dedicated marketing support to ensure public appeal and
accessibility, and to create relevant supplementary materials. The events support our research
impact with ca. 50% public, 50% university community attending.
Presentations by staff in the C3 Centre and UoA34 have included:
• Gamification, Games and Addiction (11 June 2020)
• Is film going completely online? (22 May 2020)
• Photography for lock-down artists ( 2 May 2020)
• Voice and Presence Workshop (27 June 2019)
• The creative industries are dead... Long live the creative industries (2 May 2019)




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base economy and society

COLLABORATIONS
Staffordshire University is a leading civic university, connected to and supporting the communities
and creative economies in which it is situated. In recognition of our civic role, the University has
recently created the role of “civic fellows”. These fellowships complement our visiting honorary
professors and academic fellows. They allow participatory projects (specifically under the lead of
GRATTON) to recognise the work of community researchers and the roles that community
members play in our University.
Our staff base is tightly embedded in the creative and cultural networks and economy of the region.
Our contribution to the university’s presence as an anchor institution is apparent in our extensive
partnership work. Collectively, staff from this unit have links to more than 50 creative, cultural, and
civil society organisations in a catchment covering North Staffordshire and Cheshire East.


Local and Regional Partners
Our local and regional partnerships take several forms.
•     Creative Industry Sector Partnerships: RUDGE is founder and chair of PLATFORM
      (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/c3centre/research-groups/creative-clusters-film/), the film-cluster
      sector organisation of North Staffordshire encompassing more than 100 film SMEs.
      PLATFORM is supported by both Staffordshire and Keele Universities, the City Council and the
      North Staffordshire Chambers. BOEHM is the institutional lead for Mentoring
      Growth/FACTORY (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/c3centre/projects/factory/), a Chamber and City
      ERDF funded partnership supporting the creative SME sector in North Staffordshire.
•     Cultural Sector Partnerships and Heritage: BOEHM, through the ACE funded “Create
      Place: Leadership Development for the Culture and Creative Sector (North Staffordshire and
      Cheshire East)”, manages a 16-partner strong consortium including both Stoke-on-Trent and
      Cheshire East City Council, their respective Chambers, Keele University, regional arts
      organisations in North Staffordshire (BCB, B-Arts, NewVic, Appetite, and SoT Cultural Forum)
      and Cheshire East (Cheshire Dance, Spare Parts) and national arts organisations (Arts &
      Heritage, The Audience Agency, Voluntary Arts Network, and XTRAX). Through BOEHM’s role
      on “Stoke Creates” (see below under Civil Society) we have formed new formal partnerships
      with the Local Education Partnership and the YMCA. Past project developments have included
      partnerships with Wavemaker and WEA Adult Learning organisations. Through her work on
      Production House, GRAHAM is in close partnership with national and international heritage
      and history organisations (including Staffordshire University Centre of Archaeology, Potteries
      Museum, Royal Tank Regiment Museum Bovington, Cambrai Tank Museum (France), Border
      Regiment Museum Cumbria, and the Imperial War Museum), and the Commonwealth War
      Graves Commission (MOD) (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/c3centre/projects/film-archaeology-for-
      holocaust-sites/). ESTIBEIRO and PAYLING focus on compositional and audio-visual
      partnership work, such as the recently commissioned HEATWORKS
      (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/c3centre/projects/heatwork/), including partnership work with
      organisations including BCB, TCTC Group Brass Band, Staffordshire Film Archive, and
      Middleport Pottery and with municipalities including Stoke-on-Trent and Zurich.
•     Civil Society: GRATTON is the University’s lead for Civic Engagement. She chairs the
      university-civil society “Connected Communities” partnership working group
      (http://blogs.staffs.ac.uk/c3centre/research-groups/connected-communities-framework/), and is
      a member of the Cultural Forum (regional creative and cultural stakeholder group), the City of
      Culture 2021 Bid Working Group (until 2018) and Appetite’s consortium group. She leads the
      SoTogether Community Advisory Network of 15 - 30 community researchers and is a trustee of
      the Voluntary Youth Service (until 2015). In this type of work, research is collaborative,
      engaging communities and community sector partners in identification of local need and
      research activity. Working with community members as community researchers has
      strengthened our university-community relationships. It has enabled our staff and wider

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    communities to investigate social issues and pursue new solutions and opportunities. BOEHM
    is a founding member and on the governing board of “Stoke Creates”
    (https://www.stokecep.co.uk/stoke-creates/), a charitable organisation established February
    2020 by the city’s key creative and cultural actors to attract external philanthropic funding.
    “Stoke Creates” seeks to support creative and cultural investment into the city. It has already
    raised GBP70,000 of seed funding.

National and International Partners
We take part in international academic and industry networks through our creative and cultural
research projects. Projects include WEBB’s work with the Centre for the Philosophy of Science at
the University of Lisbon (Portugal); BOEHM’s work with Turku AMK University (Finland) and
Aarhus University (Denmark), where she holds Visiting Professorship positions, and GRAHAM’s
work on film-making with Production House in concert with: Somme Tourism Office (France),
Thiepval Memorial Museum (France), Arras Tourism Office (France), Albert Tourism Office
(France), and Auschwitz Birkenau Education Department & Auschwitz Jewish Museum (Poland).
The C3 Centre and the School are members of the European League of Institutes of Arts in Higher
Education (ELIA), a European network of ca. 250 members in 47 countries. BOEHM sits on ELIA’s
Internationalisation Working Group.


Conferences organised/hosted, Judge panels for awards
In this REF period we have organised/hosted conferences including:
•   FAIRBURN (UoA17), POWER (UoA32), BOEHM: Interdisciplinary collaborations: Linking
    Creative Cultures and Business (January 2020).
•   WEBB, ROSS and PGRs: Deleuze, Entropy and Thermodynamics (May 2016).
•   WEBB, BURNHAM: Kant’s Philosophy of Judgement in Recent French Philosophy (December
    2015).
•   WEBB, BURNHAM & PGRs: St Paul in Continental Philosophy (June 2014).


Keynotes and AWARDS
BOEHM gave two keynotes in 2019 about co-production models:
• May 2019, a keynote at ELIA’s PIE (Platform Internationalisation ELIA) Meeting, titled: “Three
  Challenges for ‘Glocal’ creative partnerships”.
•   Sept 2019 at the Group for Learning in Art & Design (GLAD) Conference “Environmental and
    Social Sustainability in the Curriculum” with the title “From Culture 1.0 to University 3.0: Why
    we need University-Housed Art Schools”.
GRATTON has presented the Get Talking Hardship project to inform Higher Education policy
makers and public engagement practitioners about university civic engagement priorities:
    •   2020 – Invited by UKRI to present Keep Talking at the NCCPE Engage Conference
    •   2019 – Invited to present Get Talking Hardship as part of NCCPE Engage Conference at its
        opening plenary
    •   2018 – Invited speaker and a panel member at New Horizons: The Arts and Children in
        Challenging Circumstances.
    •   2018 - Invited speaker at the NCCPE Engage Conference
RUDGE is often asked to speak about PLATFORM, and how this model for creative film clusters in
North Staffordshire might be applied to other medium-to-small sized city regions:
•   2019 – Invited to join the World Economic Forum and invited to become a full voting member of
    the British Academy of Film and Television Awards (BAFTA).
•   Named in the Creative England 2019 list of top 50 leaders and innovators.
•   2019 – United Nations Creative Economy Expert Group meeting, Geneva, presentation titled
    “Clusters, Small Island Developing States and the 4IR”.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   2017 – Transatlantic Creative Networks Conference, Chapman University, Los Angeles.
    “Digital Creative Clusters and Regional Growth”.
•   2017 – OECS/TEPA Caribbean Expo, St Lucia. “Developing an indigenous film industry and
    education system through new technologies”.
WEBB is often invited to speak about contemporary philosophy and the work of Michel Serres:
•   2020 (postponed to 2022 due to COVID) – “Michel Serres on Politics and the Natural World”
    – Contracts and Translations, Michel Serres: Thinking beyond boundaries. Maison Française
    d’Oxford
•   2019 – “Open Epistemologies and the Climate: Gaston Bachelard and Michel Serres”, Open
    Epistemologies, The Centre for the Philosophy of Science, the University of Lisbon
•   2017 – “Technology and Critique in the Work of Gaston Bachelard and Michel Foucault”,
    Workshop on Historical Epistemology: Technology and Transformation, University of Paris 1,
    Sorbonne.
Other keynotes in the REF period include: GRAHAM’s 2018 public lecture on her Production
House work on “Hawthorn Ridge” and WEBLEY as an expert speaker at the SkyTech Military
Flight Training conference (London, 2018), offering virtual reality insights for operations and
maintenance funding to solve short-term gaps in military flight capability training.


Creative Commissions
PAYLING’s compositions attract international commissions, often giving talks in conjunction with
his performances:
•   2017: “Neon Vibration” at Synchresis, Program 28. Granada, Spain. XXIV Festival
    Internacional de Arte Sonoro y Música Electroacústica Punto de encuentro. Also presented at
    Visual Music Full Dome Festival. Morelos, Mexico (2017).
•   2016. “Circadian Echoes” at flEXiff Experimental Film Festival. Sydney, Australia.
•   June 2015. Understanding Visual Music Symposium, Brasilia, Brazil.
ESTIBEIRO’s live music is also performed internationally:
• 2014 and 2015, Klang Festivals, Durham University.
•   2013, flEXiff, Experimental Film Festival. Sydney, Australia
GRAHAM’s film production work often partners with high-profile producers. The entries spanning
2015-2017 were completed in partnership with the BAFTA producer and director Stephen
Saunders:
•   2017: Bristol Scout – Rebuilding History. Re-creating the Bristol Scout World War One plane in
    Gallipoli campaign, with screenings in London’s Leicester Square.
•   2016/17: Unforgiving Peace. In collaboration with local SME ASA Productions, Decouverte
    Channel (France); local communities in Stoke-on-Trent, Birmingham, Wolverhampton and
    London; the Polish Consulate, Stafford Polish Club, and the Imperial War Museum.
•   2015/16: War Above the Trenches. In collaboration with ASA Productions, broadcast on
    UKTV’s “Yesterday Channel” with national audience reach.
•   2014/15: Channel 5: Britain’s Worst Crimes. Television series: 6 documentaries broadcast in
    UK on television and online. In collaboration with UK Police Forces, NHS, BBC, Channel 5,
    Title Role Productions and UK county and city councils. Television international and UK
    audience reach/impact - viewing figures of 150-200,000 in 100 countries worldwide per
    transmission (repeated) and online.


Editorships and Current Editorial Board Membership
•   RUDGE: Editor of Journal for New Model Cinema (online) (2018)
•   WEBB: Member of the Scientific Board, Metodo: International Studies in Phenomenology and
    Philosophy; Member of the Advisory Board, Journal of Italian Philosophy; Co-editor of the
    series Material Futures (Bloomsbury Press) on the work of Michel Serres.
•   BOEHM: Editorial Board Member of Journal for Music, Technology, & Education (2011 -2017).
                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   PAYLING: Section Editor and Editorial Board Member: Dancecult: Journal of Electronic Dance
    Music Culture (online), (2017 onwards)
•   MA: Section Editor-in-Chief, Serious Games section of Elsevier Entertainment Computing,
    (2011 onwards)


Peer Reviewing for Journals, Publishers, Grants and Research Councils
•   BOEHM: From 2001 onwards: EPSRC College Member and Evaluator, regularly a reviewer for
    AHRC, RCUK Newton. From 2006 onwards: Expert Panel Member for EU/H2020/MSCA.
    SRHE Peer reviewer for small and large grants.
•   MacCALLUM-STEWART: Reviewer for AHRC Network Funding (Games Studies).
•   WEBB: Bloomsbury Press, SUNY Press, Polity Press, Rowman and Littlefield Press, Acumen
    Press, Routledge Press, Edinburgh University Press, Angelaki, Foucault Studies, The Journal
    of the British Society for Phenomenology, The Journal of the American Philosophical
    Association, Theory Culture and Society, The Southern Journal of Philosophy, The European
    Journal of Political Theory, and The Canadian Journal of Continental Philosophy.


Visiting Fellow / Professorships
•   BOEHM: Aarhus University, DK (2019 - 2020) and Turku AMK University, Turku, FI (2016
    onwards)
•   WEBB: Centre for the Philosophy of Science, University of Lisbon (CFCUL) (2019 – 2020).

Academic Society Activity
•   BOEHM: Founding member and communications co-convenor for PaTHES (2019), a new
    learned society for Philosophy and Theory of Higher Education. Member of ICMA (International
    Computer Music Association) and SRHE (Society for Research in Higher Education).
•   RUDGE: British Academy of Film and Television Arts – Full Voting Member. Fellow of the
    Royal Society of Arts (2018 onwards).




                                                                                        Page 14
