Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 8 Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Overview
 During this REF period the University of Hull (UoH) underwent a significant transformation to
 deliver impactful and excellent research focused on key themes including Health & Wellbeing, and
 Environmental Sustainability. The Department of Chemistry (UoA) has followed this lead and
 structured its research into: (i) Chemistry for Health, (ii) Chemistry for Sustainability, and (iii)
 Chemistry for Smart Materials.
 A strength of Chemistry is our close working relationship with other areas of UoH. The
 transformation of the UoH structure has enhanced cross-disciplinarily research by embedding
 chemists within other Departments and Institutes, including the Departments of Physics,
 Biomedical Sciences, Biology and Chemical Engineering. These individuals are closely linked with
 Chemistry, including via research space within the Chemistry building. This distribution of chemists
 throughout the institution benefitted UoA8 by linking us to University investments in health- and
 environmental-focused research and allowing the UoA to be particularly successful in securing
 internal funding to support cross-centre interactions and our vitality, e.g. PhD clusters, HEIF
 support (Lab-on-a-Chip) and investment (PET Research Centre, Plastics Collaboratory).
 The reorganization resulted in a reduction in
                                                    UoA 8 - Chemistry     REF2014     REF2021
 FTEs within UoA8 to 14.5 FTE. Yet staff Staff Returned                       24         14.5
 previously contributing to UoA8 are now Research spent
 contributing to Chemical Engineering (UoA12) per staff returned            £396k       £397k
 and a new REF return for Physics (UoA9). Funding through KTPs              £741k      £1.2M
 Despite the smaller cohort, research Individual publications
 productivity and impact have remained strong of staff submitted (no         483          619
 (see table). Publication quality, numbers and double counting of
 citations    have     improved     considerably. papers)
                                                    Citations of those
 Research income per FTE is broadly similar,
                                                    papers during the REF   3437        7916
 with our knowledge exchange funding periods
 improving significantly. This reflects strategic Visiting Professorships      8            9
 decisions to conduct more applied research                               July 2013   July 2020
 aligning with the needs of the extensive PDRAs                                9           11
 regional chemical industry, local health PG student body                     72           44
 authorities and environmental agendas. The
 result of this realignment of our research
 strategy is reflected in our impact case studies (PET Research Centre and Magnetic Ink).
 Research response to COVID – following lockdown in March 2020 the majority of the University’s
 laboratories were closed for approximately 4 months. Laboratory reopening was prioritised on
 research need and relevance to the COVID crisis, e.g. Redshaw was prioritised to complete a
 large multi-centre grant and Pamme shifted research to coronavirus RNA diagnostics. All UoH
 laboratories reopened in August 2020. Estate planning enabled us to maintain physical distancing
 without major restrictions on research activities. All third year PGR students received a 4-month
 extension and can apply for additional funded extensions. Staff and students were provided with
 home IT equipment and office furniture. Furloughed research and technical staff salaries were

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 topped up to 100%. Research communications moved online, facilitated by IT investment. The
 University implemented its own test and trace system and from 07/2020 supported an NHS PCR
 testing site on campus (with lateral flow testing for staff since 12/2020). Consequently, the
 department had no COVID transmission between staff/students.


 Achievement of strategic aims and impact during assessment period
 Our mission is to be a centre of excellence in research that is particularly relevant to the region’s
 extensive chemical industry, healthcare sector and environmental challenges. This ethos
 permeates the University and is reflected in its vision of a fairer, brighter and carbon-neutral future
 and its drive to address challenges of ‘living with water’, ‘eradicating health inequalities’ and,
 ‘accelerating net zero carbon’. We have aligned ourselves with this vision by focusing our
 research on three core themes (Health, Sustainability and Smart Materials).
 We aim to achieve research excellence in these areas through four objectives that underpin our
 UoA strategy: (1) driving an increase in quality and volume of our research output; (2) diversifying
 our research income (3) providing effective, transparent management and a stimulating,
 supportive environment for our researchers to thrive, (4) excelling in science communication so
 that science and research engages with citizens across society. This strategy will secure our
 vitality and sustainability for the future.
 (1) Enable our researchers to excel in key thematic areas
 Our three strategic themes: Chemistry for (i) Health, (ii) Sustainability and (iii) Smart Materials
 map onto UoH focus areas and tap into application-driven research partners (facilitated by the
 Aura Innovation Centre, see REF5a).
 The Chemistry for Health theme (led by Archibald) encompasses clinical diagnostics,
 imaging/theranostic agents, drug/agent delivery systems, antimicrobials and anti-cancer agents.
 The UoH PET Research Centre (Director Archibald) is central to this theme. Its on-campus
 facility houses a research-dedicated cyclotron, and multimodal imaging units for preclinical
 research. The Centre, and the sister facility at Castle Hill Hospital, were co-established to support
 translational clinical studies. Underpinning this is research focussed on creating and
 characterising new diagnostic compounds. Outputs from the Centre resulted in a change of
 practice for NHS radiopharmacy in Hull (impact case study). Researchers have attracted > £8M
 in funding from UKRI, EU and charities.
 •   The PET Research Centre enables us to build significant strengths in development of new
     medical imaging and theranostic agents. We pioneered the use of copper isotopes in
     chemokine receptor targeting (J. Nucl. Med. 2018, 59, 10927; patents filed) and developed
     tetrapyrrolic macrocycles for combined PET/photodynamic therapies and multimodal
     (PET/MR) imaging (Chem. Commun. 2018, 54, 7952). Research on designing lab-on-a-chip
     devices for integrated synthesis and quality control of radiopharmaceuticals led to e.g. (Chem.
     Eur. J., 2018, 24, 13749) and 5 patents.
 •   Our researchers developed systems for delivering diagnostic and therapeutic agents, including
     matrix metalloproteinase activated multimodal theranostic drug delivery imaging agents for
     thrombosis (MRC). In collaboration with Sporomex, a UoH spin-out, we exploit sporopollenins
     for encapsulation of compounds aiding oral delivery (Chem. Sci. 2019, 10, 7549) and
     enhanced shelf life (highlighted in interviews with Times, BBC Radio, and The Biologist, 2019,
     66, 8).
 •   A growth area is the synthesis of antimicrobials and anti-cancer agents, including metal-based
     chemotherapeutics for the treatment of cancer and antibiotic-resistant bacteria (Nat.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Commun., 2017, #1575), bio-imprinting technology to target and remove blood cancer cells
     (CRUK Pioneer Award), antibiotic nanocarriers and cationically functionalised nanogels with
     enhanced antibacterial and antifungal action (industry funded).
 •   We have continued to excel in developing lab-on-a-chip devices. A successful strand has been
     point-of-care diagnostics in resource-limited settings, taking advantage of funder priorities to
     achieve the UN sustainable development goals in Southern and Eastern Africa, with several
     Newton Fund supported projects on pathogen analysis (including Newton Prize 2020). Our
     integrated on-chip workflows for analysis of lung cancer from liquid biopsies (EU-LungCARD)
     and tissue/organ-on-chip systems contribute to the development of personalised medicine.
 Chemistry for Sustainability (led by Redshaw) maps onto the core UoH commitment to be
 carbon neutral by 2027 and the UoH Energy and Environment institute (EEI) research. The EEI,
 established in 2016, supports 80+ interdisciplinary researchers tackling environmental challenges
 and low carbon, sustainable energy solutions. This provided opportunities for our UoA through the
 EPSRC-DTC (Aura), with its focus on renewable energy technologies. Chemistry contributes
 especially through research on developing plastics designed to fit within a circular economy, as
 well as environmental monitoring and sustainable energy sources.
 •   UoH has a long history of sustainable plastics research from the creation of the first fully
     biodegradable bioplastics, polyhydroxyalkonate, in the 1980s, which led to commercialisation
     of Biopol by ICI. This longstanding interest in sustainable plastics now informs the Plastics
     Collaboratory (led by Redshaw) and draws on expertise from different disciplines across the
     UoH. We have attracted £17M in research grants to explore structure-activity relationships of
     metal-based catalysts to access next generation polymeric biodegradable materials (£1.1M
     RCUK with manufacturers/supermarkets who may utilise the biodegradable plastics we
     develop. New catalysts are being developed in collaboration with international polymer
     companies, e.g. Mitsui Chemical Corp. (Chem. Eur. J. 2015, 21, 5199) and Borealis Polymers
     (Dalton Trans. 2015, 44, 12292). Catalysts have been developed that exhibit novel ‘turn-on’
     activity (Chem. Commun. 2019, 55, 11279) or can operate efficiently in air (Cat. Sci. & Tech.
     2020, 10, 1619). UoH polymer catalysis research was highlighted in case studies with EPSRC
     National Services for MS and X-ray crystallography.
 •   Analytical science underpins environmental monitoring. We developed a point-of-need method
     for analysis of bacterial contamination in drinking water (Newton Fund, South Africa) (Chem
     Eur. J, 2017, 23. 1). As part of the North Sea Regional Development Fund Sullied Sediments
     Project (€4M), we analyse EU watch-list chemicals in sediments and have developed paper-
     based nutrient analysis devices now used by citizen scientist across the North Sea region.
     UoH became a member of the Community of Analytical Measurement Sciences to develop on-
     site environmental monitoring systems. This theme also provides PGR training for six students
     through a University-funded PhD cluster on Sensing and Safeguarding the Water Environment
     (Chemistry led).
 •   Activities in sustainable energy sources include production of biohydrogen from algae (J. Mat.
     Chem. 2015, 3, 20698), a hydrogel templating technology for fabrication of sustainable
     lightweight hierarchically structured, porous materials (J. Mater. Chem. A, 2019, 7, 8030), and
     materials for improved sound absorption properties (Mater. Chem. Front. 2017, 1, 2627).
 The Chemistry for Smart Materials theme sits under the umbrella of the GW Gray Centre for
 Advanced Materials (Director Mehl). This was founded in 2016 to provide critical mass for
 researchers across Chemistry, Physics and Engineering, and was named after UoH Professor
 George Gray for his development of LCD technology. The Centre builds on this reputation in liquid
 crystal (LC) research, and an outstanding record in colloidal science and a growing area of
 nanomaterials; resulting in £3M from RCUK, EU, Innovate UK, charity and industry sources. The
 theme provides doctoral training through two strategically funded University PhD clusters on 3D




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 printing (led by Chin) and Directed Self-Assembly (led by Mehl). Applications of research arising
 from the GW Gray Centre form the basis of our Magnetic Ink impact case study.
 •         Our research on liquid crystal and photonic/electronic materials led to several high-quality
           outputs on nanostructured materials and metal nanocomposites (J. Am. Chem Soc. 2015, 137,
           12736; J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 5757; Mater. Horiz. 2020, 7, 3021); fundamentals of LCs
           with a focus on novel LC phases (Nano Lett. 2017, 17, 7515, Mater. Horiz. 2019, 6, 1905) and
           in advanced flexoelectric materials for spatial light modulators (Adv. Mater. Technol. 2020, 5,
           2000589).
 •         We continued pioneering research on colloidal materials with focus on the behaviour of
           colloidal particles and the discovery of new materials emanating from their collective assembly.
           This includes particles at fluid interfaces, powdered emulsions, oil foams and multiple particle-
           stabilised emulsions. This research has successfully attracted direct funding from industry
           (cumulative >£900k) as well as EU (£170k) and resulted in high impact outputs (Angew. Chem.
           Int. Ed. x9, Nature Commun. and J. Amer. Chem. Soc. x4) and 5 patents.
 •         Nanomaterials research included the development of cellulose-stabilized nanoparticles to
           develop magnetic inks with widespread applications in the ticketing industry (see impact case).
           We developed and employed nanoparticles as contrast agents for imaging (see PET), and
           synthesised molybdenum clusters for oxygen sensing (EPSRC, Chem. Eur. J. 2018, 24,
           17915). Other strands include the development of platform systems for controlled delivery of
           bio-actives, and the design of several classes of inorganic nanoparticles with self-grafting
           surface functionalities that exhibit antimicrobial properties (Adv. Colloid Interf. Sci., 2017, 249,
           134; ACS Appl. Mater. Interf., 2019, 11, 12232 and 38519). In collaboration with Unilever we
           developed stimuli responsive smart materials based on a capillary structured suspension (WO
           2018/065264 Al, ACS Appl. Mater. Interf., 2017, 9, 44152). Further avenues include research
           into clusters at the biology interface (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 1690) linking organic/
           inorganic chemistry and exploring the electrical response and self-assembly properties of
           fluidic MOFs (J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 12989).
 Our three strategic themes provide a focus for impactful research. Staff can contribute across
 all themes, thus disseminating expertise in techniques. Examples include:
     i.       Prior has contributed expertise in powder and single-crystal diffraction to structural
              science across a wide range (as demonstrated by 72 outputs). He carried out structure
              determination for Chemistry, across UoH and externally on pharmaceutical chemistry,
              geochemistry and nuclear materials with collaborators (Salford, UCL, Texas, Southwestern
              Oklahoma and Chiang Mai).
     ii.      Pamme leads UoH research in lab-on-a-chip devices. This includes development of
              microfluidic systems for point-of-care testing (Newton Fund, EU-ITN), tissue-on-chip
              systems, as well as dose-on-demand radiopharmaceutical production (MRC). She
              develops portable and deployable systems for environmental analysis of water and soil
              (EU, GCRF and CAMS-funded) and also leads a cross-Faculty PhD cluster on Sensing
              and Safeguarding the Water Environment.(with six postgraduates). With synthetic
              chemists, microfluidics is employed for assembly of drug delivery vesicles and self-healing
              materials.
 UoA alignment with the University’s core values has resulted in an institutional commitment to
 supporting research within Chemistry. Staff have been awarded lead roles in six UoH
 strategically funded cross-disciplinary PhD clusters. Two in Chemistry of Health, (i) Adaptive
 Radiotherapy (Archibald), (ii) Pharmacology of Natural Products (Jones), two in Chemistry for
 Sustainability, (iii) Sensing and Safeguarding the Water Environment (Pamme), (iv) Circular
 Plastics Economy (Redshaw) and a further two in Chemistry for Smart Materials: (v) 3D printing
 (Chin) and (vi) Directed Self-Assembly (Mehl). Moreover, Chemistry staff contribute to clusters
 focussed on Advanced Wound Care and Early Biomarker Detection. Clusters consist of up to 6



                                                                                                        Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhD students and act as ‘pump-primers’ for further grant applications. They also provide an
 excellent cross-disciplinary training environment for ECRs and PGRs.


 (2) Increase the quality and volume of our research output
 This focus on defined areas produces a high number of quality outputs: Redshaw 153, Binks 98,
 Prior 72, Mehl 62, Archibald 54, Paunov 32, Pamme 38, Boyle 34, Kelly (0.5FTE) 21, Horozov
 18, Francesconi 10, Murray 10, Iles 10, Lorch 8, Young 8. Altogether the UoA has been highly
 active producing >713 papers from chemistry staff over the REF period, with the majority published
 in RSC, ACS, Elsevier or Wiley journals (Figure 1).
 Many involve collaborations with the UK, Europe, the Americas and Asia (29% of publications are
 with international partners, figure 3, section 4). UoH is compliant with the Concordat on Open
 Research Data. As part of this process, >99% of our outputs are deposited on the ‘Worktribe’
 (since 2016) and ‘Hydra’ (since 2014) repositories.




                            Figure 1. – UoA publications by publisher
 (3) Diversification of research income and collaborations
 Within this REF period we developed new income streams (figure 2 for spend versus 2014),
 using opportunities with EU-H2020, GCRF and Middle East links through PGR recruitment. UKRI
 funding constitutes 45%. We have increased engagement with regional industry resulting in
 increased KTP funding to £1.2M in this REF period (section 3). EU funding continues to be
 significant (25%). Direct industrial funding has remained strong (25%) derived from corporations
 including locally-headquartered companies (Reckitt Benckiser, Smith & Nephew) as well as Akzo
 Nobel, bioMérieux, GSK, Lonza, Shiseido and Unilever. Through working with local health
 authorities, we increased the portion of UK government (non UKRI) funding (10%), and from UK
 charities (15%).
 We broadened our international collaborations. New partnerships emerged through FET
 (Binks, Horozov) and ITN (Pamme) schemes. Our connections with Asia have grown, including
 projects with China (Binks, Mehl, Redshaw), Japan (Redshaw), Singapore (Murray), and Russia
 (Pamme, Redshaw). We are active in the Americas, working with researchers in the USA
 (Archibald, Mehl, Paunov, Redshaw), Canada (Boyle, Redshaw) and Brazil (Boyle). We
 established new collaborations in lower- and middle-income countries including India (Binks,


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pamme, Redshaw), Pakistan, South Africa, Kenya and Nigeria (Pamme); many enabled through
 the Newton Fund and GCRF.




              Figure 2. Contrast in UoA spend for (a) REF 2021 and (b) REF 2014.




 (4) Provide effective, transparent management and a stimulating, supportive environment
 During the REF period the institution has introduced a new appraisal system, an academic career
 framework initiative and clear promotion guidelines (section 2). Success in research funding
 applications has been fostered by a supportive environment, comprehensive internal peer review
 and mentoring. The administration pathway for proposals has been streamlined and is supported
 by our central Research and Innovation Funding Office. The more collaborative atmosphere
 enabled interdisciplinary grants to be developed, such as the successful Plastics Collaboratory.
 To free time for core activities, the administrative burden on academic staff was reduced by
 centralizing administration within a faculty hub and by new appointments including two teaching
 fellows.




                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In this REF period, we held 65 departmental seminars with mandatory PGR attendance. Time is
 dedicated for speaker/student interactions. When RSC award winners visit, seminars become
 mini-workshops with PDRA/PhD students also presenting. We also benefit from seminars offered
 across campus, e.g. in Biomedical Sciences and the EEI. The Hull York Medical School organises
 an annual Allam Lecture, which is accompanied by student oral/ poster presentations with many
 contributions from Chemistry. Hull hosted a number of conferences including UK PET Chemistry
 (2017) and RSC Northern Dalton (2018).
 Staff have been acknowledged through annual intramural awards: Binks (2018, Outstanding
 published output); Archibald (2018, Outstanding impact); Pamme (2019, Outstanding research
 collaboration); Redshaw (2018 Outstanding published output; 2019 Outstanding grant capture);
 Lorch (2018 Outstanding public engagement), Prior/Young (teaching awards).
 Visiting scholars contribute to a vibrant research environment. We have hosted, e.g. Prof Kai
 Chen (NUIST, Nanjing University of Information Science & Technology, China; Jiangsu
 Government scholarship) for 12 months, Prof Xin Wang (NPU, Xi’an, China) for 12 months (CSC
 sponsorship), Prof B Zhang (NPU, China) in 2018 (Royal Society), as well as Prof Mahesh Varia
 (CU Shah U., India) for six months and Prof Alahmadi (U. Jeddah, Saudi Arabia). Our research
 environment was enhanced further by visiting PhD students, including Commonwealth Split-site
 studentships from Pakistan and India, Newton Bhabha Fund students (India), several CSC funded
 students and a Thai Royal Golden Jubilee Scholarship. The Department hosted visiting summer
 research students, >100 over the REF period, mostly from France, Spain and Holland. Staff
 hosted 16 RSC- and ACTF-funded summer studentships.


 (5) Lead on science communication and public engagement
 Our public engagement activities are designed to ensure our research has an impact on citizens
 well beyond the academic and chemical industry sectors. These activities go to the University’s
 key challenges of promoting fairness by supporting wider access to Higher Education and
 breaking down the misunderstandings walls that hinder access to research. Engagement also
 supports creative industries by embedding STEM-themed activities within cultural events like Hull
 UK City of Culture 2017, popular culture/science themed publications and work with creative
 industries, e.g. Lorch consulting for Microsoft to embed Chemistry within their extremely popular
 Minecraft game.
 UoH leads on science communication with Lorch the first UK chemistry Professor of Science
 Communication. Chemistry is now at the forefront of UoH Public Engagement activities, leading
 on securing the British Science Festival for Hull in 2018, and Directing the Hull Science Festival
 in other years (Lorch). Our science communication strategy aims to break down cultural barriers
 to science engagement, and to chemistry in particular. We do this by presenting science as an
 enjoyable cultural activity similar to music, art and theatre. For example, Chemistry participated
 actively in Hull’s Annual Freedom Festival and City of Culture, reaching audiences that would
 never actively seek science-based activities.
 Other examples of embedding science within the region’s cultural life include Lorch’s mentoring
 of other science communicators via the Graduate Enterprise project; establishing ‘Lab Rascals’ (a
 company delivering chemistry-themed children’s parties); and establishing an ‘element of the
 week’ slot on BBC regional radio during 2019; Lorch and Pamme utilised Minecraft to visualise
 Lab-on-a-Chip devices and molecules. “Molcraft – molecules in Minecraft” featured in the world-
 wide press and resulted in consulting for Microsoft that resulted in embedding chemistry themes


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within Minecraft. Lorch provided advice to a major film company (Potboiler Productions), and has
 written/edited three popular science books, one shortlisted as “book of the year” by the IoP.
 Another ambition is to democratise access to science through establishing regional science cafés,
 “Pint-of-science” events, plus hundreds of school lectures, radio presentations and contributions
 to “The Conversation”.


 Future strategic aims and goals of research and impact
 Our research objectives will continue to align with the University’s role as an anchor institution for
 our region and its drive to deliver wide-reaching, impactful research that addresses key challenges
 relating to health and environmental sustainability. The imaginative ways we communicate our
 research will address UoH targets of promoting fairness across society and enhancing creative
 industries.
 We deliver on these objectives by focusing on the three core themes of health, sustainability and
 smart materials. These are areas of our long-standing expertise that address the particular needs
 of the region’s industries, while also addressing the global challenges of growing and aging
 populations and of environmental emergencies.
 Our strategy includes a stronger focus on application-driven research through collaboration with
 commercial and health sectors. This will be facilitated by the University’s Aura Innovation Centre
 (funded by £12m ERDF funding to link research capacity to commercial users), and by increased
 emphasis on securing contract and Innovate UK funding. Chemistry will develop overlapping
 research strategies and operations with the University’s new Chemical Engineering Department,
 which will broaden our research capability. This realignment to focus on more application-based
 outputs will increase the wider impact of our research and our broader vitality and sustainability.
 Operational plans are already in place to implement these strategies and tactics; Chemistry and
 Chemical Engineering now have a single, joint head of department (Lorch), a joint Director of
 Research and a joint Post-graduate Research Director. The departments are developing MSc by
 Research programmes with industrial placements, and enterprise-based KPIs have been
 established across both units. The University is supporting these activities through implementation
 of the academic career framework which puts knowledge exchange and enterprise activities on
 an equal standing with research and education; it has appointed business engagement managers
 to facilitate collaboration, and has established a wholly owned spin-out company (Lampada) to
 commercialise ventures.




 2. People


 Staffing strategy
 During this REF period, high-quality ECRs were recruited (three male, three female) which
 established a more balanced staff profile (age, gender and ethnicity) and strengthened research
 themes. Research Mentors helped develop these ECRs as independently funded researchers:
 Gupta (bioanalysis with optical waveguide sensors; EPSRC Healthcare Challenge, £1M),
 Efremova (photoluminescent materials, EPSRC 1st grant scheme) and Kyriakou (inorganic
 nanomaterials; EPSRC 1st grant scheme), Stasiuk (multimodal imaging agents; MRC £800k),
 Chin (metal organic frameworks and 3D printing; KTP, Green Port Hull), Reithofer (peptide-based

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 materials for drug delivery). Iles was appointed Research Officer for the Lab-on-a-Chip Fabrication
 Facility that underpins £1.8M in grants. ECRs have been closely coached/encouraged to produce
 high impact outputs, which led to publications such as J. Am. Chem. Soc. (Chin, Reithofer),
 Chem. Sci. (Murray), Nat. Commun. (Murray), Chem. Eur. J. (Efremova, Stasiuk, Chin, Bonet),
 Angew. Chemie Int. Ed. (Murray), Nanoscale (Stasiuk) and Chem. Commun. (Chin, Reithofer,
 Stasiuk).


 Staff Development for all stages
 UoH was awarded the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award
 recognizing universities implementing the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. We are aligned with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and
 Code of Conduct for their Recruitment.
 UoH is a member of Vitae, part of The Careers Research and Advisory Centre. Vitae supports
 the professional development of researchers at all career stages. Our Organisational
 Development Team provides career development opportunities, open to staff at all levels. This
 includes management as well as leadership skills.
 Annual appraisals recognise achievement, provide constructive feedback, coaching, and assist
 with career development, encouraging staff to self-assess progress. Staff are assessed for
 readiness to promotion irrespective of whether they apply. Examples of promotion in the REF
 cycle include Archibald, Lorch and Pamme (to Professor), Horozov (to SL).
 Our Academic Career Framework features three strands - research, teaching, and knowledge
 exchange. Staff are encouraged to engage in a wide range of professional activities (section 4),
 including knowledge exchange, consultancy, entrepreneurship, outreach and science
 communication. All staff are encouraged to seek mentors, internal as well as external via, e.g.
 the Yorkshire Accord coaching scheme, or Women in Higher Education Network.
 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 ECRs have reduced teaching loads (50% for 2 years) and teaching mentors, support packages
 and receive preferential treatment on competitive bids to the Faculty Research Support Fund
 (which supports conferences, travel, collaboration and other activities) PhD clusters (Chin, Jones,
 Reithofer) and PhD studentships (Murray, Efremova) have been awarded to ECRs to help
 develop their research profiles.
 Leadership Development
 Staff have been supported through leadership courses: Lorch (Clore Leadership course, Advance
 HE Leading Departments), Pamme / Young (University Developing Leadership Programme), and
 Francesconi / Efremova (Aurora). Our successful approach to staff and leadership development
 is illustrated through staff who have moved onwards. These include Evans, returning to Norwich
 as Director of NRP Biosciences DTP and Chair NBI Graduate School. Georgiou moved to
 Imperial College (now a Reader), Reithofer and Chin to the University of Vienna as Associate
 and Assistant Professors, respectively, whilst Gupta and Kyriakou built upon successes at Hull
 and left for promotions to Birmingham and Aston, respectively.
 PDRAs
 PDRAs are afforded the same career development opportunities as academic staff through
 biannual appraisals and access to Vitae (see above). To foster career development, our Research



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support Fund Scheme enables PDRAs to develop independent researcher profiles, beyond the
 grant they work on. PDRAs are encouraged to apply for Associate Fellow at the HEA.
 PDRA who have benefitted from development at Hull include: Ben Burke (Senior Imaging
 Scientist, Invicro, London), Johanna Seemann (Manufacturing and Control Manager, Life
 Molecular Imaging, Germany), Nasr Esfahani (Senior Microfluidics Engineer, Francis Crick
 Institute, London) and Chuanhe Shen (Lecturer, Nanjing University).
 Professional support staff
 Administrative and technical support staff are now managed at faculty level and provide a
 streamlined support to students and staff.


 Support mechanisms, training and supervision for PGR students
 The UoA has a vibrant and diverse PGR student cohort. In the REF period, 115 PGR students
 have graduated, two thirds of them were non-UK nationals. Many of these PGRs were supported
 by external scholarships (Saudi-Arabia, Iraq, Oman, China, and Commonwealth). Other funding
 included EU-ITN, University PhD scholarships, Allam Scholarships (a local philanthropist) and
 industry. Of our graduating PhD students, 26% are female. The percentage is higher (34%) for
 our home/UK PhDs and close to those identified by the RSC.
 At the beginning of the REF period we benefited from international PGR students sponsored by
 institutions in the Middle East. As these studentships dropped off, we maintained PGR student
 numbers through the University’s strategic investment into University PhD clusters. Recently, the
 department has refocused PGR provision, developing Masters by Research programmes, utilizing
 the government’s offer of loans for research students. During the REF period, 12 MSc by Research
 students have graduated.
 We currently have 44 PGR students and the PGR student-staff ratio is 3:1. Many of our current
 PG students contribute to strategic multi-disciplinary PhD clusters (section 1.4) that generate
 greater capacity via teams of PGR working on connected projects. These constitute particularly
 excellent training environments, often with industry engagement (e.g. Smith & Nephew) or NHS
 involvement. We also attract Postgraduate students and projects from UKRI centres for doctoral
 training, i.e. NERC Panorama DTC (lead by Leeds, with Hull and York) that addresses the
 environmental sciences and changing environments, and the Hull-led EPSRC/Aura CDT (with
 Sheffield, Durham and Newcastle), that focusses on the offshore wind energy and the environment
 – of direct relevance to the emerging wind sectors in the Humber and the North Sea.
 Our PGR students are actively engaged in the running of the Department. PGR students are
 included in formal structures, e.g. staff-student, recruitment and Athena Swan committees. They
 are encouraged and supported to lead in ventures, such as International Women’s Day activities
 and public engagement activities, particularly science festivals and organisation of the city’s
 annual contribution to “Pint-of-science”. PGRs contribute to the organisation of Departmental
 Seminars (section 1.6).
 The success of our PGR students is externally acknowledged. Six PhD students were shortlisted
 for ‘STEM for Britain awards’ at the Houses of Parliament. A Hull PGR student presented at the
 ACS National conference (San Diego, 2019) which included the ACS press
 conference/promotional video. Undergraduate project students have appeared as co-authors on
 publications (e.g. H. Sample: Chem. Commun. 2020, 56, 11090; H. Joy: PCCP, 2016,18, 9419;
 C.A. Burnett J. Mater. Chem. B, 2018, 6, 3665).


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Global Engagement Office supports student visa applications. All PGRs undergo a central
 and departmental induction programme. This includes welcomes from VC, Student Union, HoD,
 PG support tutor and supervisory team. PG students are familiarised with health and safety
 aspects, facilities, student support and mental wellbeing and a range of social activities are
 organised.
 All students have a supervisory team of at least two supervisors. Projects led by new academic
 staff are supported by a more senior co-supervisor. All academic staff take and periodically refresh
 courses on PG supervision. Compulsory training includes topics such as research integrity and
 ethics, health and safety, diversity and unconscious bias training. Joint supervision of PhD
 students with supervisors in the NHS was introduced (three students) to increase their experience
 of Healthcare agendas and practices, including specific training for special positions (e.g.
 radiochemistry for Thai PET centre).
 Progress and engagement monitoring are delivered by monthly formal meetings and more
 substantial 6, 12-month review meetings, the latter with an independent chair and viva voce. This
 ensures good support and development for students as they develop to PhD calibre candidates.
 At our annual PG symposium, final year PGRs present a talk, earlier PGRs present posters.
 Our Doctoral College manages our well-established and pioneering accredited Postgraduate
 Training Scheme that develops academic and professional skills and enhances employability.
 MRes students’ study for 20 credits, PhD students for 60 credits alongside their research project.
 Our Careers and Employability Team offers tailored support to PGR students. Their trajectories
 are global: many taking up PDRA positions or returning to their home countries and taking up
 academic and industrial roles e.g.
    • Alorabi, Assistant Professor and HoD (Albaha University, Saudi-Arabia)
    • Al-Zahrani, Alsamrani, Alqathani, Lecturers (Saudi-Arabia)
    • Al-Khafaji Professor (University of Babylon, Iraq)
    • Al-Habsi, Lecturer (ICEM, Oman)
    • Tyowua, Olusanya and Olusegun, academic posts in Nigeria
    • Johnson, Thompson, Masinchi and Darragh (all GSK)
    • Marinopoulos (Boots)
    • Bignell (Pharma research, Covance)
    • Kownacka (clinical trials director, UK)
    • Hargreaves (NHS radiopharmacy, UK)
    • Jones (Associate Manager R&B)

 Support and promotion of equality and diversity
 UoH is committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all, giving every individual the chance to
 achieve their potential, free from prejudice and discrimination. This is embedded into our Diversity
 and Inclusivity Policy and permeates the ethos of Chemistry. The success of the policy was
 recognised with UoH named ‘most diverse’ University in a 2018 study (HEPI).
 Chemistry is fully committed to the Athena Swan (AS) charter. A self-assessment team, active
 since October 2013, chaired by Binks, promotes AS and equality of opportunity. Chemistry
 attained a Bronze Award in November 2015. The resulting action plan, implemented in Chemistry,
 is regularly updated. It covers all areas of relating to protected groups and equal opportunity. The
 next application will be faculty wider for further recognition.
 Resulting from the University AS Bronze application, our faculty implemented a pilot scheme for
 women returners from maternity leave, to whom tailored support was provided. Based on the


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individual profile and needs of staff, support is designed to provide effective cover and to facilitate
 effective return, e.g. Pamme took 24 weeks maternity leave in 2014. A PDRA contract was
 extended (six months) to deliver her lectures and supported her research students. During her
 maternity leave Pamme successfully applied for an externally-advertised professorial appointment
 within UoH. Other staff have taken family leave including Murray, Armstrong, Prior and Jones.
 During the REF period, several female ECR appointments were made (Efremova, Chin, Gupta),
 and female staff took on leadership roles (Greenway HoD, Pamme DoR and Deputy HoD,
 Francesconi DoR). Female staff have been supported through leadership training (see above)
 and encouraged to join networks, e.g. WHEN (Women in Higher Education Network).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Income
 We have significantly diversified our research income streams. Research spend during the REF
 period has been £5.8M, thus broadly similar (per FTE) to the last REF period.
 Due to the multi-disciplinarity of our research we have been able to obtain UKRI funding from both
 EPSRC (>£1.7M) and MRC (>£2M). Notable successes during the REF period include an
 institutional award on evolving the circular plastics economy (EPSRC, £940k, PI Redshaw)
 aligned to our Chemistry for Sustainability theme. Significant grant income for the Chemistry for
 Health theme: On-chip clinical radiopharmaceutical production (MRC, £520k, PI Archibald, Co-I
 Pamme), Theranostic systems for combined radio-imaging and photodynamic therapy (EPSRC,
 £355k, PI Boyle); Matrix metalloproteinase activated multimodal theranostic drug delivery imaging
 agents for thrombosis (£680k, PI Stasiuk), Antibody-photosensitiser conjugates for treatment of
 head and neck cancer (MRC £347k, PI Boyle). Examples from our Chemistry for Smart Materials
 theme include funding for high speed multi-level phase devices for active spatial control (EPSRC,
 £322k, PI Mehl). Our ‘income in-kind’ (£320k) includes access to Diamond, CLF, ESRF, the
 National EPR and Crystallographic Services.
 Through working with local health authorities, we have increased the portion of UK government
 (non-UKRI) funding. Strong links have been formed with co-investigators from the NHS. The
 portion of income from UK charities has increased. Notable examples include a CRUK Pioneer
 Award on size and shape recognition for separation of blood cancer cells (£142k, PI Paunov),
 Leverhulme Trust ‘Photo-activated surface coating to combat bacterial contamination’ (£249k, PI
 Boyle), and funding for imaging equipment from the Cardiac Trust (£278k, PI Archibald). Further
 income was generated from the Daisy Charity, Help4Health, Whitelaw Frater Cancer Trust,
 Analytical Chemistry Trust Fund (ACTF) and Royal Society.
 EU funding successes include a H2020 FET Open project (ONE-FLOW) on end-to-end green
 process design for pharmaceuticals (£270k to UoH, Binks), an FP7 ITN (‘iTERM) on imaging for
 tissue engineering (£235k to UoH, Archibald) and a H2020-ITN (ViBrANT) on studying viral and
 bacterial adhesins (£220k to UoH, Pamme, Iles). UoA staff (Lorch, Pamme, Boa, Welham) have
 been instrumental in delivery of the €4M Hull-led Interreg North Sea Region Programme of the
 ERDF project ‘Sullied Sediments’ (£280k to UoH). UoH is leading a H2020-MSCA-RISE project,
 ATMOS, on understanding gas-gas and gas-solid interactions towards a cleaner atmosphere
 (£113k, Co-I Francesconi).
 Direct industrial funding remained strong with funding from a diverse range of corporations
 including Akzo Nobel, Astatech, bioMérieux, Janssen Pharma, Lonza, Lubrizol, Nestle and Rich

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Products, rb and Unilever, with grants from Foamix Pharmaceuticals (£360k), GSK (£630k), Nalco
 Champion (£108k), and Shiseido (£110k) mostly through our soft and colloidal materials
 researchers (Binks, Horozov, Paunov). This supported >10 PhD studentships during the REF
 period. We have increased our engagement with industry through KTP-funded projects, from five
 KTPs (£741k) in the previous REF to eight KTPs to 2021 (£1.2M) with AAK, Ansell, Bemrose
 Booth Paragon (now ParagonID), Centrica, Photocentric and Singleton Birch all KTP collaborators
 In recent years, collaborations outside Europe have increased significantly. TheNewton Fund
 and GCRF opened up collaborative possibilities with researchers in lower- and middle-income
 countries. Pamme has been particularly successful, securing Newton Fund projects (South Africa
 £100k; Kenya £100k) on developing point-of-need analysis of pathogens, and receiving follow-on
 funding through a Newton Prize 2020 (£200k). The UoH QR-GCRF allocation provided pump-
 priming funding for Chemistry staff, examples are projects with Kenya on on-site monitoring of
 water and soil quality. The Newton Fund, as well as Commonwealth, ACTF and Commonwealth
 Scholarships supported several visiting students and scholars from India, Pakistan and Nigeria
 and China. Furthermore, we have built links with Russia and China through four British Council
 and Royal Society grants (Redshaw, Pamme, Mehl).


 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Chemistry shares an estate of 6653 m2 with Chemical Engineering. This includes synthesis
 laboratories, laboratories for physical and measurement sciences, Analytical Measurement
 Instrumentation and Lab-on-a-Chip Fabrication suites as well as teaching laboratories, lecture
 rooms, the Faculty Stores, office spaces and a library. Chemistry staff also access laboratory
 space in Biomedical Sciences (biosafety level 2) and the PET Research Centre.
 Since 2014, we have improved our research infrastructure with refurbished laboratories housing
 mass spectrometer provision and ICP systems. Equipment for Lab-on-a-Chip Fabrication has
 been amalgamated into a dedicated Facility supported by HEIF investment (£270k) and
 institutional investment. Our physical and analytical chemistry teaching laboratory spaces have
 been refurbished; they are heavily used by researchers to access various spectroscopy,
 electroanalytical and separation systems.
 Strategic regional investment of £8.25M (including £1.8M from UoH) established a pioneering PET
 Research Centre on campus and a linked Molecular Imaging Research Centre at Castle Hill NHS
 Hospital (Director Archibald). The Centre on campus features a mini-cyclotron (ABT) for [18F],
 [68Ga] generators, bespoke hot-cells, synthesisers, radio-HPLC, radio-TLC, autoradiography and
 small animal scanners (PET/SPECT), making it the only research dedicated PET Centre in the
 UK. This provides a unique avenue for bench-to-bedside projects with chemists developing novel
 imaging probes, and microfluidic synthesis routes to dose-on-demand production (impact case
 study).
 The Lab-on-a-Chip Fabrication Facility features rapid manufacturing equipment for quick
 turnaround of glass, polymer, and paper microfluidic devices, supported by an experimental officer
 (Iles). The Facility underpins £1.8M in current grants and 20+ PhD projects across Science and
 Engineering and Health Sciences; it also provides service to external partners.
 UoA staff use the newly-created Digital Manufacturing Fab Lab in Engineering (Chin). The
 University has invested (£2M) into a supercomputer (VIPER); enabling researchers to perform
 high-level calculations.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chemistry has a range of core and specialist facilities; including three NMR spectrometers (two
 400 MHz and one 500 MHz systems). Single crystal, powder X-ray, and soft-matter analysis
 diffraction systems are within the building, as is mass spectrometry provision with Nano-LC
 MS/MS, LC/MS/MS ion trap, MALDI ToF MSMS and GC-MS. Our ICP suite includes ICP-AES,
 ICP-MS and a laser ablation (LA-ICPMS) system. We have a wide range of smaller measurement
 instrumentation such as DSC, TGA, GPC, elemental analysis, zeta sizers and a nano-particle
 analyser (Nanosight), in addition to a suite of AES, UV-vis-NIR, ATR-FTIR, fluorescence and fibre-
 based Raman spectrometers, potentiostats and ion selective electrodes. In the Physics
 Department, we have access to Fluorescence Lifetime Imaging Microscopy (FLIM), VSM, Raman
 mapping capabilities, a profilometer, white light interferometry, as well as nanoimprint lithography
 and metal sputtering. The Faculty Microscopy Suite provides SEM, TEM, AFM/STM and confocal
 fluorescence.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society



 Research Collaborations
 On-campus and regional: Chemistry at Hull has extensive, sustained collaborations with
 universities, professional societies, business organisations and non-governmental institutions
 across the UK and worldwide.
 Collaboration is integral to the culture and strategy of Chemistry (section 1). We are contributing
 core discipline strength to collaborations with multiple disciplines across campus. Many grants are
 collaborative and interdisciplinary and outputs are increasingly interdepartmental. Chemistry
 registered PhD students are also co-supervised by non-chemists including some in the NHS.
 Nationally, the Chemistry for Health theme collaborates with Imperial College on antimicrobial
 surface coatings (Leverhulme Trust, Boyle), and UCL on antibody drug conjugates (MRC, Boyle).
 Internationally, European Union projects such as FET (ONEFLOW) (Binks)/ViBrANT ITN
 (Pamme)/ATMOS (RISE) (Francesconi) and the North Sea Regional Development Fund (Sullied
 Sediments) work closely with dozens of institutions across Europe. British Council, Newton Fund
 and GCRF funding has enabled projects with lower- and middle-income countries (section 3).
 Around 33% of our publications are with international partners (figure 3).
 Colleagues have forged collaborations through visiting and guest professorships. Mehl at Xi’an
 Jiatong University (China) and Binks at Shanxi University (China), both under the 1000 talents
 programme, Horozov at the University of Vienna (Austria), Prior at the University of Chang Mai
 (Thailand) and Boa at Universite d'Artois (France). Redshaw is a visiting professor at Northwest
 University, Xi’an (China), the National Institute of Technology, Akashi (Japan), and guest
 Professor at Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu (China), the Chinese Academy of Sciences,
 Beijing and Visiting Lecturer Osaka University (Japan).




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                   Figure 3. UoA publications (a) by region and (b) by country.


 Our collaboration with industry is highlighted in section 1 (strategic aims) and section 3
 (income). We are fostering particularly close links with local industry e.g. Smith & Nephew and RB
 (Reckitt Benckiser). The Plastics Collaboratory is engaging with Tri-pak, Morrison Supermarkets,
 Chartered Institutes of Wastes Management, William Jackson Food Group and McCains Foods.
 Redshaw is working with companies such as Borealis Polymers (Finland), Mitsui Chemicals Corp
 (Japan), and Astatech (China). Our UoA also supports the educational and training needs of the
 industrial sector through the provision of flexible learning pathways (via part-time chemistry
 degrees and apprenticeships) and a well-established NEBOSH accredited Occupational Health
 and Safety programmes (ranging from Diploma to Masters level) that also serves the region’s
 industry.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Networks and Partnerships (relationships with key research
 users, beneficiaries or audiences)
 We have set ourselves up to be the focal point for chemical expertise in the region for the local
 commercial and industrial sector. This is evidenced by our increased recent KTP uptake.
 Chemistry colleagues are closely linked within key networks/centres across campus:
 •   PET Research Centre and GW Gray Centre as outlined in section 1.
 •   Energy and Environment Institute: a Research Institute focussed on environmental
     resilience and energy sustainability.
 •   The AURA Innovation Centre: a £12m ERDF-funded centre to connect research expertise
     with commercial users through Innovation Managers and research labs.
 •   Hull Global Health network, an inter-faculty group of researchers addressing challenges in
     global health: featuring seminars, peer review, and critical mass for proposal writing.
 At regional level, staff are active in the RSC Hull & East Yorkshire local section and the
 department frequently hosts section events, providing networking opportunities with members
 from local industry. We are part of the Middle England Regional Chemistry Interactive Alliance
 of nine universities in the Mercia region that organises workshops, conferences and summer
 schools to enable networking for staff, ECRs and PGRs.
 At national level, Hull is a member of the Community for Analytical Measurement Sciences
 set up through RSC Analytical Division and Analytical Chemistry Trust Fund, to foster collaboration
 between industry (LGC, GSK, Syngenta, Waters, and more) and academia (in-person, on-line
 events, jointly funded PGR studentships).


 Wider activities and contributions to the research base
 Awards:
     •   RSC 2014 Surfaces and Interfaces award (Binks)
     •   2016 ACS Langmuir Lecturer Award (Binks)
     •   Best Masters Supervisor, Sichuan Province, China (Redshaw)
     •   Shaanxi province 100 talents award 2016 (Redshaw)
     •   International Liquid Crystal Society: LG Displays mid-career research excellence award,
         2016 (Mehl)
     •   Shaanxi Province 1000 Talents Innovation award 2018 (Mehl)
     •   2020 Newton award (Pamme)


 Editorial roles:
     •   Binks Senior Editor Langmuir
     •   Pamme Associate Editor Analyst; Editorial Advisory Boards Analytical Chemistry, Lab on
         a Chip and Analytica Chimica Acta
     •   Mehl Editorial Board Materials and PhysChem
     •   Boyle Associate Editor Photodiagnosis and Photodynamic Therapy
     •   Redshaw Advisory Boards Catalysts (mpdi) and Frontiers in Catalysis
     •   Prior Editorial Board Solids; co-editor Acta Crystallographica Section E
     •   Special issues. Francesconi (Crystals), Redshaw (Molecules, Catalysts); Archibald
         (Dalton Transactions).
 Conference chairs/organisers
     •   Pamme conference chair, microTAS 2016 (1100 attendees, €1 million turnover)


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Redshaw chaired Newton fund international workshops (Japan, China and Russia).
    •    Young organising committee Chemistry and Physics at Low Temperature Jyväsklä (2013)
         and Biarritz (2016). International Steering Committee Matrix Isolation Community (2009-
         2017). Coordinator UK inorganic chemistry and X-ray absorption spectroscopy JISCmail (>20
         years).
    •    International Conference Advisory Committees include Binks (5), Mehl (5), Pamme
         (microTAS), Redshaw (4).
    •    We have hosted on campus four British Liquid Crystal Society workshops, two MERCIA
         workshops, and one Biochemistry Society event.
 Staff have given 19 plenary/keynote (figure 4(a)) and 93 invited lectures (figure 4(b)) at
 prestigious international conferences. Highlights for leading learned societies in long established
 conferences series are: Binks (ACS, RSC; 2015, 2016, 2017), Boyle, (Canadian Chem Soc.
 2016); Paunov, Horozov (European Colloid Interface Soc. 2015, 2016), Mehl (Gordon Conf. on
 LCs, 2019, Int. LC Conf. 2014/16/18), Pamme / Redshaw (Pacifichem 2015).




         Figure 4. Lectures by UoA members (a) plenary and keynotes, (b) invited lectures.


 National and international prioritization panels:
     •   Archibald; Greenway; Francesconi: EPSRC panel
     •   Pamme: panel member, Academy of Finland (2018); Swedish Research Council (NT5)
         (2017-2020, co-chair 2020)
     •   Prior: chair of EPSRC National Crystallography Service Management Panel 2017-2020

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Mehl: Diamond Prioritisation panel for soft matter beamlines (2020 - 2023)
 External advisors for academic promotion panels. Pamme Purdue University (USA), KTH
 (Sweden), Twente (Netherlands), VUB (Belgium) and JUST (Jordan); Mehl Huddersfield, Kent
 State University, CeNS (India) and IASST (India).
 Staff are actively engaged in the organization of subject specific learned societies. Six
 members of staff are Fellows of the RSC (FRSC). Pamme served as board member and is
 currently President of the Chemical and Biological Microsystems Society (CBMS) and served on
 the RSC Analytical Division Awards panel (2020). Mehl served as Chair and Vice Chair for the
 British Liquid Crystal Society (BLCS) and on the Management Board of the International Liquid
 Crystal Society (ILCS). Binks was on the ACS Nomination Awards Committee (3x), and RSC
 Faraday Division Awards Committee (4x). Young was on the International Steering Committee of
 the Matrix Isolation Community (2009-2017) and Redshaw on the International Advisory board of
 High Technology Polymers (China).


 Wider activities and contributions to economy and society
 Science communication: We aim to lead in science communication. We have reached the wider
 public through TV and radio interviews. Lorch, Young, Armstrong, and PhD students
 contributed to BBC Radio Humberside a weekly science slot. Lorch has spoken on BBC Radio
 4 ‘Four Thought’ and ‘You and Yours’ programmes as well as BBC Radio 5‘s Naked Scientist and
 Drive Time. Our UoA has submitted 50+ articles in ‘The Conversation’ by Lorch, Prior, Burke
 (PDRA), Richardson (PGR), Roggatz (PGR) and Darragh (PGR) with over 10 million reads.
 Staff contributed to the British Science Festival (2018), including Pamme/Lorch (Sullied
 Sediments project), Archibald (public lecture), Kelly (panel session on LCDs). Our Lab-on-a-chip
 Team have developed hands-on activities for the annual Hull Science Festival (attracts 3000+
 visitors). Pamme and Greenway contributed to Soapbox Science in Hull City Centre. Pamme and
 Lorch have presented research at “Pint-of-Science” in Hull. Lorch established a Beverley “Café
 Scientifique” series with contributing chemists (Archibald, Lorch, Pamme). Our Citizen Science
 phosphate analysis device, developed as part of the Sullied Sediments EU project, has been used
 by hundreds of volunteers in the UK, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. Pamme has
 delivered hands-on workshops to school children in Kenya (Newton Fund project), Lorch has
 delivered workshops and ‘science shows’ in Sweden, Bulgaria, Malaysia, Oman, India and
 Bahrain.
 Impact through creating business: We contribute to the economy and society through the
 impact of our research; evidenced by two research impact case studies, “PET” and “Magnetic Ink”:
 [1] “PET” relates to the establishment of a positron emission tomography/molecular imaging
     centre for clinical use of 'radio-labelled drugs' on a hospital site. The impact is targeted
     diagnostic imaging/therapy, lower doses and reduced side effects for patients. The integrated
     approach allows for administration of custom-made onsite radiopharmaceuticals in response
     to clinical need. Risks for environmental spillages/exposures to radiation that could occur
     during distribution are reduced. It incorporates outreach activities to the hospital site for school
     children showcasing ongoing innovation. Patents for this case study involve 'administering
     chemicals' to humans either in the form of cosmetics or as imaging and/or diagnostic agents,
     and for these particular 'chemicals' will guide new practice.
 [2] “Magnetic Ink” re-invented printing processes that made a “dying industry” into a world-
     leading innovator, winning several prizes for innovation on printing processes. The resulting
     technology is now used globally on tickets (including transport systems and events). The
     impacts on commerce and technology are palpable, as improved mass production of the

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    technology has impacted internationally on multiple industries ranging from transport to health
    and safety. The co-production of knowledge and resulting innovation made the company
    economically viable again and increased their workforce (83 to 162) bringing desperately
    needed jobs to a region with social economic deprivation.
 Additional impact includes two start-up companies. Research on micro-reactors at UoH was
 instrumental in establishing Chemtrix BV’s core technology. The company’s mainly operates in
 the Netherlands but CEO, Dr Charlotte Wiles (Hull Chemistry PhD graduate), retains
 laboratory/office space in Chemistry. Chemtrix BV develops scalable flow chemistry platforms with
 applications in fine, specialty and pharmaceutical industries. Their customer base encompasses
 the UK, Europe, North America, Asia and Australasia.
 Sporomex uses sporopollenins as encapsulation technologies (Technical Director Mackenzie)
 with applications for crop protection (reducing amounts of pesticides) and the food sector, e.g.
 efficient vitamin bioavailability, leading to less waste and effective pest control. A product is on the
 worldwide market licenced with Sporomex. A current collaboration with a major meat producing
 company (USA) exploits inherent antioxidant properties of these pollen microcapsules to stabilise
 food products and extend shelf life.




                                                                                                 Page 19
