Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 9 - Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction
 As a department at the forefront of pioneering research and technological development, we seek
 to make advances in fundamental physics that will shape the technologies of the future. Building
 around our major scientific themes of Condensed Matter Physics, Nuclear Physics, Plasma
 Physics and Physics of Life, we are increasingly interdisciplinary in our approach to research
 with strong links to engineering, chemistry, biology, computer science and mathematics.
 Whether discovering fundamental particles or designing the next generation of fusion reactors,
 we collaborate broadly with national and international partners whilst our diverse and robust
 industry connections stimulate a culture of knowledge exchange that has seen many innovative
 products brought to fruition. This submission includes all Category A eligible staff from the
 Department of Physics.

 In all of the above, balancing our core research and impact strategy with a flexible and
 responsive outlook has allowed our group structure to evolve and flourish since REF2014. As
 well as launching breakout activities in Hadron Physics, Quantum Communications, and Physics
 of Life, we have targeted the establishment and expansion of key interdisciplinary research
 centres such as the Centre for Energy Efficient Materials (CEEM) and the York-JEOL
 Nanocentre. This structural network gives our researchers the means and resources to work
 across different groups and disciplines and has naturally led to an increase in inter-departmental
 collaboration with a commensurate increase in funding, high quality outputs and impact.

 Specific achievements that highlight the effectiveness of our environment are as follows:
 ● We lead one of the four UK Quantum Technology Hubs with a total investment in excess of
   £50M so far and, through Spiller, have significantly contributed to the UK Quantum
   Technologies strategy and delivery.
 ● Our Nanoscience research has been recognised by a DBE and FRS to Gai (joint appointment
   with Chemistry) and a major upgrade to our Electron Microscopy capability led by Lazarov.
 ● In recognition of our unique position in Plasma Physics and Fusion research, we have been
   invited to contribute to the UK’s Nuclear Fusion strategy via the UKAEA Research
   Programme Directorship 2017-2019 (HR Wilson), the Programme Directorship of the £222M
   STEP project (HR Wilson) and related contracts to Dickinson, Vann and Dudson.
 ● We lead the Physics of Life Network+ (PoLNet), now in its third phase of funding. The PoLNet
   steering group (chaired by McLeish FRS) has significantly raised the profile of the Physics of
   Life in the UK, has leveraged an allocation of £30M from the UKRI Strategic Priority Fund and
   was collectively awarded the 2020 IoP Rosalind Franklin Medal.

 1.2 Achievement of REF 2014 strategic aims
 In growing from 38.3 FTE in 2013 to 59.9 FTE in 2020, we have delivered on our aim of
 departmental expansion as a vehicle for increasing our impact on the Physics landscape. Many
 of the new staff were appointed through a variety of fellowships, highlighting our attractiveness
 to high-flyers and giving us a sustainable platform on which to further develop our plans for the
 future. The quality of our output has increased significantly, our second major strategic aim from
 REF2014, as evidenced in REF2. We have widened our interdisciplinary impact by publishing in
 non-Physics journals such as British J. Cancer, Nature Genetics, Nature Methods, Stem Cell
 Reports, PNAS, JACS, and Nano Letters where we had minimal representation in 2008-2013.
 Our research income has grown disproportionally, by as much as a factor 2, from £3.6M in
 2013/14 to an average of £7.2M (3-year average between 2017/18-2019/20), with our current
 EPSRC grant portfolio in the top 3 of any physics department in the UK (see also Section
 1.10). This all points to an environment in which both new and existing staff can thrive and excel.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have sought external advice; we initiated an external advisory group consisting of senior
 academic, industrial and UKRI representatives in 2013 which has met annually and which was
 complemented by a formal external review in 2017. These external experts have critically
 assessed our progress throughout the REF period and have helped us to implement our strategy
 so successfully.

 Assessing our REF2014 strategy in detail, we have exceeded our aspirations on multiple levels:

    1.      Lead a university expansion in Quantum Technologies. Our leadership of the
            Quantum Communications Hub attests to the outstanding success of this strategy.
    2.      Enhance collaborations with national and international laboratories as well as
            industries. Industrial collaboration has been particularly strong, as demonstrated by
            our impact case studies. We have made 7 academic appointments co-sponsored by
            industry and national facilities (Sections 1.3, 3.3). 15 PhD students have been directly
            sponsored by industry. Our strong interaction with national and international
            laboratories is evidenced by the total value of £35.9M in competitively awarded
            facility access.
    3.      Expand the internationally leading cross-disciplinary YPI to develop further its
            world-class reputation for research and training. The York Plasma Institute (YPI)
            was awarded an EPSRC CDT in Fusion Energy and a major (£4.4M) EPSRC
            Programme Grant, both led by HR Wilson.
    4.      Widen collaboration with the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy. HR Wilson took
            a secondment as UKAEA Research Programme Director 2017-19 and subsequently
            has led the £222M UKAEA Spherical Tokamak for Energy Production (STEP)
            programme.
    5.      Enhance materials physics research and cross-disciplinary research. McKenna
            formed the Centre for Energy Efficient Materials (CEEM) which has led to stronger
            interaction with chemists and has attracted industry partners such as Cogent Power,
            Cristal, Great Cell Solar and Croda. The Nanocentre has seen a major (£700k)
            upgrade in facilities for Nanobiology. Leake now leads the newly formed Physics of
            Life research group with significant (£470k) university infrastructure investment.
    6.      Extend photonics research into more interdisciplinary areas. Krauss has built
            strong connections to Electronic Engineering, Biology, Chemistry and Health
            Sciences since forming the Photonics group in 2013 and has brought significant
            (>£10M) funding to York by leading or contributing to EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC, HEFCE
            and Wellcome Trust grants.
    7.      Enhance nuclear structure, astrophysics and fission research. The nuclear
            structure activity has been strengthened by a number of appointments, including
            Dobaczewski (Wojciech Rubinowicz prize 2015) and Petri (URF 2016). Hadron
            Physics has been established by the appointments of Watts as well as Rutherford
            Fellows Bashkanov and Zachariou.

 Examples of the exciting research enabled by this strategy are described in sections 1.5-1.9,
 including our major role in driving interdisciplinarity forward at University level.

 1.3 Strategy relating to impact case studies
 Our impact case studies showcase our strong industrial relationships (Seagate Technology,
 Kromek Group plc), expertise and leadership in industry-relevant software (CASTEP, VAMPIRE)
 and our desire for societal impact through outreach. They also reflect our strategic decision to
 significantly raise the profile of impact by appointing an impact champion (L Wilson, then
 Jenkins), an industry officer (Lancaster) and organising dedicated impact Away Days. These
 actions led to a large number of new industry connections, including EPSRC Impact Accelerator
 Account (IAA) awards with new industry partners. Additionally, we upgraded infrastructure
 relevant to our industry links, for example, the nuclear applications and magnetic
 characterisation laboratories. Most importantly, in line with our impact strategy, we made new
 appointments in every area that is now represented by an impact case study. Ferreira (URF),
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Evans (co-sponsored by Seagate) and Hasnip (EPSRC Research Software Engineering Fellow)
 greatly enhanced our modelling expertise, while Vallejo-Fernandez (co-sponsored by Seagate)
 enhanced our magnetic characterisation capability, while Paschalis (co-sponsored by Kromek)
 was appointed to drive our nuclear applications work. Additionally, our strong foundation in
 outreach was significantly boosted by the appointment of Leech as Outreach Officer in 2013 who
 now runs a three-strong outreach office. The strength of our impact case studies attests to the
 success of this strategy.

 1.4 Departmental research organisation
 Our research activities are coordinated through the following four research groups:

    •   Condensed Matter Physics (CMP) (22 FTE) - leads one of the 4 Quantum Hubs
    •   Plasma Physics (16 FTE) - largest university plasma group in the UK
    •   Nuclear Physics (15 FTE) - largest nuclear physics group in the UK
    •   Physics of Life (PoL) (7 FTE) - strategic new interdisciplinary initiative

 We are particularly keen to support cross-cutting activities and actively encourage our staff to be
 members of more than one group. This has led to emergent sub-themes such as Biomedical
 Plasmas (Plasma-PoL), Nuclear Detectors (Nuclear-CMP), and Biophotonics (CMP-PoL).

 Interdisciplinary research is a particular strength at York and is supported by a significant
 number of University-level Centres (REF5a, 11). Physics is driving a significant number of these
 and has been actively involved in shaping this strategy (Section 1.9). We now describe our
 Research Strategy in more detail at the research group level. Where paper citation numbers are
 given, these refer to Web of Science figures as of 12/2020.

 1.5 Condensed Matter Physics
 The largest research group in the department with 22 academic staff members, 12 post-doctoral
 researchers, 3 experimental officers and 45 PGR students. The strategy of CMP is to create and
 study advanced materials and nanostructures using experimental, theoretical and computational
 techniques. This ambition is supported by state-of-the-art facilities, especially in the York JEOL
 Nanocentre, where we have established a unique leadership role in Aberration-Corrected
 environmental Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy (AC-eSTEM), as pioneered by Gai
 and Boyes.

 Experimental. Our REF 2014 strategic goal of enhancing materials physics research (Section
 1.2.5) is evidenced by our leading activity in revealing material properties at the nanoscale
 (Kröger Science 2018; Kepaptsoglu Science 2020) and related work on the emerging class of
 2D Materials. In 2D Materials, for example, we have demonstrated electrical control of water
 permeation through graphene oxide membranes (Pratt Nat Materials 2017, 208 cites, Nature
 2019) and cavity-enhanced light emission from MoTe2 (Wang). Extending our Photonics
 research was another strategic goal of REF 2014 (Section 1.2.6) leading to pioneering work in
 photonic crystals and nanostructures (Krauss Nat Phys 2015). Our research in magnetism and
 spintronics (see ICS) is another
 strength with highlights including the
 discovery of spin Hall effects in
 graphene (Ferreira Nat Comm 2014,
 PRL 2017), the structure and
 properties of magnetic tunnel junctions
 for memory applications (McKenna
 Nano Lett 2014) and atomistic spin
 model simulations of magnetic
 nanomaterials (see ICS). Our
 standing in the field of spintronics      Figure 1. A selection of journal front covers
 was recognised through the award of       representing CMP research.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 an EPSRC-JSPS Core-to-Core grant (O’Grady) linking York with other world-leading spintronics
 groups in Germany and Japan.

 Theory and Modelling. Our leading work on first-principles materials modelling in areas such as
 magnetism, spintronics, solar energy and chemistry is highly complementary to almost all of our
 experimental activity above with many examples of collaborative work (McKenna Nat Comm
 2014; Probert Science 2016, 519 cites). More generally, the group has a strong reputation for
 computational materials physics with Probert and Hasnip core developers of the density
 functional theory code CASTEP; CASTEP is now in use by over 1000 research groups
 worldwide and has been a benchmark for every UK national academic supercomputer over the
 last 20 years (see ICS). Evans is the developer of the VAMPIRE code for atomistic simulation of
 magnetic materials which has quickly established a 300-strong worldwide user base since it was
 first released in 2014 (see ICS). Continuing this exciting trend and service to the community,
 Ferreira has recently released the "KITE” code for quantum simulations of large condensed
 systems.

 Quantum Hub. Realising our strategic ambition to establish a lead in Quantum Technology
 (Section 1.2.1), CMP also hosts the EPSRC Quantum Communications Hub led by Spiller. The
 Hub has so far successfully attracted Phase 1 (2014-2019, £24M), Phase 2 (2019-2024, £24M)
 and £4.4M of capital equipment funding. During Phase 1, the Hub has delivered major advances
 in quantum key distribution (QKD) technologies and is pursuing quantum communications at all
 scales for Phase 2. In addition, the Hub collaboration has spawned three major new (industry-
 led) Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF) projects: (i) AQuaSeC, led by Toshiba to
 commercialise fibre-based QKD; (ii) 3QN, led by ArQit to commercialise satellite QKD receivers;
 (iii) Assurance for QRNGs, led by the National Physical Laboratory to provide an assurance
 framework for commercial quantum random number generators.

 Looking to the future. We have ambitious plans to develop the York JEOL Nanocentre into a
 national facility based on the recent award of an EPSRC Strategic Equipment grant for a major
 upgrade of the AC-eSTEM (Lazarov, EPSRC £3M) and our membership of the EPSRC National
 Research Facility for Advanced Electron Microscopy (SuperSTEM); this will also be a priority
 area for future recruitment. Furthermore, we have identified experimental spin transport as
 another recruitment priority to further strengthen our connection between modelling and
 materials characterisation capabilities. Our Quantum Technologies research will be
 strengthened to expand its experimental activity (Chair appointment in 2020, Lecturer to follow in
 2021) and by engaging with the York Global Initiative for Safe Autonomy (UKRPIF 2019,
 £10.5M).

 1.6 Plasma Physics
 Housed in the York Plasma Institute (YPI), which
 provides a unique environment for world-class
 plasma research, currently comprising 16 academic
 staff members, 2 permanent research officers, 9
 postdocs and 50 PGR students. We address a
 portfolio of research covering the spectrum from
 blue skies to impact driven, across three strands:
 Low-Temperature Plasmas, Laser-Plasma
 Interactions and Magnetic Confinement Fusion.
 The Low-Temperature Plasma activity exploits
 non-equilibrium plasmas for next generation          Figure 2. Magnetically confined
 medical therapeutics (O’Connell Chemistry 2016,      plasma in the YPI laboratories which
 123 cites) and nano-manufacturing (Gans PRL          is crucial for developing diagnostics
 2015, EPSRC £2M). Laser-Plasma Interactions          for the UK's MAST-U tokamak.
 is pushing the fundamental frontiers of laser-driven
 quantum electro-dynamics (QED) (Ridgers PRX 2018, 97 cites), laser-plasma interactions
 (Murphy PRX 2018, 98 cites) and laboratory astrophysics (Woolsey Nat Comm 2018, 2016).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our Magnetic Confinement Fusion activity strives to harness clean fusion energy (Lipschultz,
 HR Wilson Nuclear Fusion 2017, 108 cites, EPSRC Prog Grant £4.4M) with a particular
 emphasis on understanding instabilities and nonlinearities (Cziegler Nat Phys 2017).

 Strategic environment. Our research is enabled through a combination of local, national and
 international facilities, in particular our strong connection to the UK Atomic Energy Authority
 (UKAEA) Culham Centre for Fusion Energy (CCFE), which was a key goal of our REF 2014
 strategy (Sections 1.2.3, 1.2.4) Our activities are complemented by leading computational
 capabilities, including BOUT++ for magnetic confinement fusion (Dudson) and EPOCH (highly
 parallelised laser-plasma simulation code Ridgers, J of Comp Physics 2014, 165 cites). This
 unique setting also provides an excellent training environment for one of the very few global
 taught MSc courses in Fusion Energy and the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in the
 Science and Technology of Fusion Energy.

 Looking to the future. We will exploit upcoming opportunities. Ultra-intense lasers are pushing
 the frontier of matter-radiation interaction in new European facilities, such as XFEL, Germany,
 ELI-NP, Romania and Central Laser Facility Vulcan 2020 upgrade. The UKAEA Spherical
 Tokamak for Energy Production (STEP) programme (£222M) promises new opportunities in
 compact tokamak science and technologies, along with the £55M upgraded MAST-U tokamak.
 ITER is due to begin operations in the next few years, and JET is due to operate soon with real
 fusion fuels. The Plasma group is actively engaging with these opportunities (see also facilities
 Section 3.3) as well as collaborating with other disciplines, international partners and industry in
 order to maximise the impact of its research.


 1.7 Nuclear Physics
 This group is firmly positioned as one of the leading groups worldwide. Following the successful
 implementation of the REF2014 strategy (Section
 1.2.7), the group has recently expanded to a full
 complement of 15 academics with broad and
 connected research programmes encompassing
 Hadron Physics, Nuclear Structure, Nuclear
 Astrophysics, Nuclear Theory and applications-
 focussed work. The group is supported by an
 experimental officer, it has 9 PDRAs and 31 PhD
 students. We conduct a dynamic and high-profile
 experimental programme at the world’s leading
 nuclear physics facilities such as CERN, RIKEN, and
 Jefferson Lab, delivering high-impact nuclear science
                                                           Figure 3. The hexaquark work led by
 and helping to shape the science programme at
                                                           York featured in the CERN Courier.
 future facilities such as the Facility for Rare Isotope
 Beams (FRIB, Michigan State) and the Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research (FAIR,
 Darmstadt). We pursue a vigorous research programme in theoretical nuclear structure and in
 nuclear astrophysics and have opened up translational opportunities with a new applications
 laboratory at York.

 Experiment. A notable highlight of our hadron physics activity has been the first observation of
 the d* hexaquark, which has led to predictions of its formation in neutron stars and setting a limit
 on their mass (Bashkanov and Pastore) and a possible scenario for the d* being a component of
 dark matter (Bashkanov and Watts J Phys G 2020; 30k downloads and Altimetric > 500).
 Highlights of the nuclear astrophysics programme have been the measurement of the 23Na(,p)
 26
    Mg reaction (Laird, Diget) and the study of the 12C fusion reaction in massive stars (Jenkins,
 PRL 2020). Our nuclear structure research has examined the structure of neutron-rich nuclei
 such as 40Mg (Paschalis, Petri, PRL 2020) and we have made significant contributions to
 understanding isospin symmetry (Bentley, PRL 2020). We have also clarified the shape
 staggering effect in light mercury nuclei (Andreyev, Dobaczewski, Nat Phys 2018), which was
 only possible via the very strong interaction with our theorists.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Theory. We have made an essential contribution to understanding the question of antimatter
 and have reported ground-breaking theoretical studies to determine the influence of asymmetric
 forces on the ground states of selected isotopes (Dobaczewski, PRL 2018) which are now
 informing experimental work at Michigan State University’s SPINLAB.

 Applications. Our applications work has been instrumental in the development of a wearable
 gamma-ray detector commercialised by Kromek plc which has led to tens of thousands of sales
 of the instrument worldwide (see ICS, Jenkins). We have also developed a new methodology for
 quantum-entangled positron-emission tomography (PET) (Watts, patented), which promises to
 revolutionize the sensitivity of PET imaging.

 Looking to the future. We are leading two multi-institutional projects: AGATA (gamma-ray
 tracking array, Bentley) and ACPA (silicon array for ELI-NP, Diget) We are contributing to two
 large STFC co-funded projects: J-Lab2 to build on the initial UK investment in the Jefferson
 Laboratory upgrade, and STAR to develop a calorimeter for future radioactive beam facilities,
 building on our expertise in scintillator performance.

 1.8 Physics of Life (PoL)
 Established as a major research unit in 2018 and now comprises 7 academic staff and 24
 associated research fellows, postdocs and graduate students, including several research
 fellowships (Noy, McLeish, Quinn, Leake). The formation of PoL originated from the strategic
 decision to establish a biophysics activity and the appointment of Leake and L Wilson in 2013
 and to expand our interdisciplinary research (Section 1.2.5). Hancock, Krauss, Kröger and
 Vallejo-Fernandez span the interface with CMP, and O’Connell with YPI. The fact that Photonics
 research (Krauss) is now a key element of this interdisciplinary portfolio is further evidence for
 the success of our REF 2014 strategy (Section 1.2.6). The research in PoL is organised along
 three broad themes: novel tools, novel technologies, novel physics, and the activity is
 underpinned by diverse funding from BBSRC, MRC, EPSRC and NERC and several charitable
 funders, including Wellcome, Leverhulme and Alzheimer Society.

 Novel tools. This theme addresses open
 questions in the life sciences, e.g. optical
 microscopy for single-molecule monitoring of
 antimicrobial resistance (Leake, BBSRC £1.9M)
 and membrane biology (Quinn), digital holography
 for rapid 3D imaging of microbial swimming
 (Wilson Nat Comm 2018, 2020, Adv Funct Mat
 2018), and label-free biometrology of bone (Kröger
 Science 2018, 100 cites, Science Adv 2019)
 (fig.4); projects include next-generation bioimaging
 (Leake MRC £1.3M), and synthetic and systems
 biology (Leake). The group also recently won         Figure 4. a) Holographic imaging of
 resources from the highly competitive £30M           micro-swimmers, L Wilson and b)
 UKRI Physics of Life Strategic Priorities Fund       Micro-biometrology of bone, Kröger.
 (Leake £1.7M joint with John Innes Centre).

 Novel technologies. We study techniques such as low-temperature plasmas to treat prostate
 cancer (O’Connell Brit J of Cancer 2015, 88 cites), hyperspectral resonant imaging for
 monitoring single-cell secretion (Krauss Wellcome £1M), Raman spectroscopy for monitoring
 pathogens and host immunity (Hancock Nat Genetics 2014), and tissue ablation using magnetic
 hyperthermia (Vallejo-Fernandez Sci Rep 2020). We are also developing novel handheld
 diagnostic technology for the detection of infection, which has already demonstrated better
 performance than the laboratory standard ELISA (Krauss, Nature LSA 2020, EPSRC £1.1M).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Novel physics inspired by biology. Here, we study the emergence of structural complexity in
 DNA from molecular dynamics simulations (Noy Nature Methods 2016, 239 cites), or flow-
 induced self-assembly in spider silk (McLeish EPSRC £1.2M). This activity uses computational
 and theoretical soft matter/biophysics techniques also as part of the JADE consortium in Artificial
 Intelligence (Noy).

 Looking to the future. The recent (2020) University investment in a dedicated Physics of Life
 building will catalyse the group’s ambitious goal to establish the University of York as a future
 national centre of excellence for Physics of Life research. The group will continue to drive
 interdisciplinarity at university level and has a growing international influence, which we aim to
 extend further, manifested through steering panel membership of several UK and EU societies
 and networks.

 1.9 Interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinarity is at the heart of the University’s research strategy (REF5a, 4,9,11) and was an
 underpinning feature of the Department’s REF 2014 expansion strategy (Section 1.2). The
 Department’s leadership and commitment to interdisciplinarity is evident on multiple levels;
 Krauss was the “Technologies for the Future” University theme Champion 2015-2019, followed
 by Watts in 2020; physicists lead three of the University’s interdisciplinary centres, i.e., the
 Biological Physical Sciences Institute (BPSI, Leake, 2013-19), the York JEOL Nanocentre (Tear
 2016-, Lazarov 2018-) and the York Centre for Quantum Technologies (YCQT, Spiller 2014-). It
 is clear that interdisciplinarity is firmly embedded in the fabric of physics research at York.
      • BPSI is a network across the Faculty of Science that organises termly symposia,
         seminars, funds summer studentships and facilitates research proposals to EPSRC,
         BBSRC, MRC, Leverhulme and the EU, totalling £1-2M per annum.
      • The Nanocentre is an interdisciplinary Centre between Electronic Engineering, Physics
         and Chemistry which focusses on electron microscopy, also featuring multiple
         nanofabrication tools including electron-beam lithography, cleanroom facilities, focussed
         ion beam, microfluidics fabrication and a “Bioscope” atomic force microscope.
      • YCQT inspires and supports the full spectrum of interdisciplinary quantum technologies
         research in Computer Science, Electronic Engineering, Mathematics and Physics
         through joint seminars, funding proposals and industry links.

 1.10 Future strategic aims
 Our focus will continue to be on conducting world-leading fundamental science in conjunction
 with applications addressing key societal challenges. The group sections above have already
 provided a forward look, which we summarise here:
     ● To grow our work in nanomaterials, building on the recent strategic equipment award of
        the new AC-eSTEM instrument and the establishment of the Centre for Energy Efficient
        Materials (CEEM).
     ● To expand our activities in quantum technologies to establish a world leading capability
        in experimental quantum communications.
     ● To lead activities in developing compact fusion science, such as the UK STEP
        programme and to exploit the opportunities arising from the development of new, high
        intensity, light sources.
     ● To grow our activity in nuclear applications, exploiting our fundamental nuclear and
        hadron physics research to develop technologies for applications ranging from homeland
        security to medical instrumentation.
     ● To support the growth of our research at the interface of physics and the life sciences
        through continued investment in the Physics of Life research group and support for the
        development of basic science capabilities that underpin new healthcare technologies.
     ● Interdisciplinarity will continue to be a main driver of our activity and we will explore
        mechanisms for closer engagement with other departments, both in terms of
        fundamental/exploratory science and translational research.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Recent research awards data indicates that we will have the means to implement this strategy.
 For example, our competitively won EPSRC portfolio is now amongst the top 3 in the UK; more
 importantly, the distribution of EPSRC PIs places us 2nd in the UK in terms of the number of
 independent investigators, which highlights the depth of our activity. These indicators of current
 and future success are evidence for the vitality and supportive nature of the environment we
 have created. They support our ambition to be one of the top physics departments in the UK.

 1.11 Strategy for future impact
 As described above, our strategy has already delivered a number of strong impact case studies
 and we have successfully embedded impact into the culture of the Department. We aim to
 increase our impact by extending the range and number of companies we engage with, building
 on a number of mechanisms that we have already successfully used such as KTPs (e.g. Spiller
 with ADVA; Jenkins with Kromek plc; Vann with MM Microwave; Dedrick with Oxford
 instruments), EPSRC IAAs (e.g. Pratt with Cogent Power; Krauss with Aptamer Solutions and
 Croda; Thompson with Nanoscan) and the STFC Innovation Partnership Scheme (Paschalis).
 We will co-fund further joint PhD projects with industry (see Sections 2.7 and 4.8).

 We will expand our industrial network through the White Rose Industrial Physics Academy
 (WRIPA) established in 2014, a consortium of 5 regional universities aiming to increase the
 employability of undergraduates (led by Krauss). For example, in the 2018/19 academic year
 alone, we engaged with 15 companies involving 53 students through industrial final year
 projects, summer placements and year-in-industry placements. New contacts were made with
 Tracero (radiation detectors), Airbus, BT, Rolls Royce and Nestle, many of which will lead to
 collaborative research proposals.

 Our sabbatical scheme will also help generate impact. For example, Pratt was able to develop
 his relationship with Cogent Power in the area of electrical steel characterisation in 2019 and
 Krauss will work closely with Optalysys Ltd on optical neural networks in 2021.

 We are continually exploring other opportunities for generating impact. Jenkins and Hancock
 were supported by one-year University Enterprise Fellowships to focus on the translation of their
 research; Hancock’s innovative cancer diagnostics project was co-funded by Wellcome (£70k),
 GrowMedTech (£60k) and direct industry funding (£37k) and started clinical trials in 2020.
 Krauss has had extensive support from the Business Development team (pump-priming,
 external market research) to realise his ambition of a biosensor spin-out company.

 1.12 Open research environment
 We ensure that our research is widely available, well-managed, and searchable by insisting that
 every output is deposited in the institutional repository (White Rose Research Online) wherever
 possible. The University (REF5a, 15-17) provides funds to ensure all journal articles are open
 and publicly available. We believe in fully transparent access to research data as far as
 reasonably possible. For example, our Nuclear Physics data is archived indefinitely at York,
 along with data analysis codes and provided on request to the community; PoL researchers use
 the GitHub databank to deposit and share all of their protein dynamics analysis software code.
 They use international data banks such as the Open Microscopy Environment archives for all
 imaging data, the BEI Resource Repository and European Nucleotide Archive for
 biological/genetic reagents, ExPASy and protein databases for biophysical data. Our Fusion
 researchers make use of the comprehensive data management and archiving systems in place
 at Culham and similar European facilities such as TCV; all data gathered at Culham is stored
 and made accessible by UKAEA. We have been particularly active in developing open source
 software, with CASTEP and VAMPIRE being free to academic researchers (see ICS), KITE
 being freely available for quantum simulations, BOUT++ for plasma simulations and EPOCH for
 ultra-high intensity laser-plasma interactions.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.13 Research Integrity and Ethics
 As is already evident from the above, we strongly support the principles of research integrity,
 such as honesty, responsibility, fairness and accountability. The “responsibility” aspect is
 addressed by the University’s ethical framework, which is overseen by the University Ethics
 Committee and a number of subject-level Ethics Committees (REF5a, 14). For example, the
 Physical Sciences Ethics Committee considers issues such as interactions with defence-related
 companies and with UKAEA. For research involving human tissue (biosensor research, cancer,
 lymph node and bone biopsy samples) and essential animal experimentation (such as in vivo
 molecular tracking), we refer to the Biology Ethics Committee. All staff and research students
 must apply for ethical approval if their work falls within a sensitive area before research can
 proceed.


 2. People

 The strategic expansion of the Department was focussed around the group structure established
 at the end of the last REF period, including the nascent Physics of Life group. Every new
 appointment is carefully assessed for the new opportunities it will create and for the synergies it
 will promote. Following these principles, we have appointed both senior leaders, such as
 McLeish FRS, Watts, Dobaczewski and Spiller, and have attracted a significant number of
 independent fellows to join the department from highly ranked universities in the UK and abroad.
 The fellowship campaign has been particularly successful and is another testament to the
 success of our 2014 strategy. We also highly value the contribution from support staff. In this
 context, it is worth highlighting that Helliwell, our senior technician, received the inaugural
 Institute of Physics Technician award 2019 for his dedication and contributions to practical
 physics training. The University of York was also one of the 36 founding signatories of the
 Technician Commitment (REF5a, 40) and the Department is actively involved in supporting the
 professional development and profile of its technical staff.

 2.1 Recruitment strategy
 The following new appointments were made since REF2014. Many have opened up new
 research areas and opportunities, for example,
     • CMP: Evans, Ferreira, Pratt, Spiller, Wilson-Rae, Kepaptsoglou, Wang, Hasnip.
         Spiller leads the Quantum Hub, Kepaptsoglu is transformative for our Electron
         Microscopy research, Ferreira has initiated 2D Materials research at York.
     • Plasma: Cziegler, Dedrick, Dickinson, Higginbotham, Lancaster, Murphy.
         Dedrick has brought plasma thrusters, Dickinson gyrokinetic simulations of tokamak
         plasmas, Higginbotham expertise in warm dense matter exploration using XFELs and
         Murphy in plasma-based particle acceleration.
     • Nuclear: Dobaczewski, Paschalis, Pastore, Petri, Watts, Zachariou, Bashkanov
         Dobaczewski is one of the leading nuclear structure theorists in the world, Watts,
         Zachariou and Bashkanov have brought Hadron Physics to York.
     • Physics of Life: McLeish FRS, Noy, Quinn, L Wilson
         McLeish has brought the EPSRC “Physics of Life” network to York and is driving
         interdisciplinarity at university level, Noy has opened up molecular modelling, L Wilson
         holographic imaging of bacteria and Quinn research into Alzheimer’s disease.

 New academic appointments are supported by a senior mentor from a different research unit to
 provide a broader view on career development. This has helped, for example, Ferreira to extend
 his original (2014-19) RS URF with an RS-EPSRC Engagement Fellowship (2015-2017), RS
 Research Fellows Enhancement Award (2017-2021) and an RS EPSRC Engagement
 Fellowship (2019-2022); McKenna’s original EPSRC Fellowship (2013-2018) was extended to
 2018-2021 and he further enhanced it with a £800k EPSRC standard responsive mode award.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 New appointees are supported by a start-up package which includes a PhD studentship and
 laboratory equipment/infrastructure as required. Their teaching allocation is tapered linearly from
 1/3 equivalent load in year 1 to a full load in year 3.

 2.2 Independent and University Fellowships
 We support fellowship applications by inviting potential applicants to present their work to the
 department, by providing travel grants and strong mentorship, as well as organising “fellow’s
 days” where existing fellowship holders share their experience with applicants. As a result, we
 have been able to support nine holders of competitive early career fellowships, i.e., Ferreira and
 Petri (URF), Kepaptsoglou (EPSRC SuperSTEM), Wang (RAEng), Noy (EPSRC Early Career),
 Hasnip (EPSRC Research Software Engineering), Bashkanov and Zachariou (Rutherford) and
 Quinn (Alzheimer Society). In addition, Woolman and A Gibson won two-year Wellcome Centre
 for Future Health Fellowships (co-funded with the University), which brings the total number of
 fellowships awarded to 11. This high number, achieved in a very competitive environment,
 highlights our ability to nurture talent and underlines our attractiveness to rising stars. Our
 commitment to their career development is reflected by the fact that all of them have achieved
 academic appointments (9 at York, 2 elsewhere).

 At the senior level, fellowships include McLeish (EPSRC), Leake (Leverhulme and RAEng),
 Vallejo-Fernandez (Royal Society Industry), Hancock and Jenkins (University Enterprise).
 Krauss, HR Wilson and Lipschultz have been awarded Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit
 Awards and D’Amico was awarded a Royal Society Newton fellowship. In total, 20 staff
 members, a third of our headcount, have won competitive personal fellowships.

 2.3 Evidence of support for Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
 Physics at York was one of the first two departments in the UK to be awarded Project Juno
 Champion status in 2011, an achievement we have since built upon. The Department was led by
 a female Head from 2012-2017 (Thompson) and a female Chair of the Research Committee
 from 2013-2016 (D’Amico). We celebrate the fact that our Department is drawn from a diverse
 and international background where members feel welcome irrespective of gender, ethnicity,
 nationality, sexuality or other protected characteristics. In addition to our Project Juno Champion
 status (renewed in August 2018), we hold Athena Swan Silver status (renewed 2019) and are
 aspiring to Athena Swan Gold. We place particular emphasis on ensuring equality of opportunity
 for female physicists and are pleased to report that this strategy is now bearing fruit; for
 example, 4 out of the 7 most recent appointees are female and our f/m ratio is now 11/60 (18%).
 We aim to improve this ratio further over the next REF period.

 The Department has a robust organisational framework to deliver equality of opportunity and
 reward, it has an Equality Committee (DEC) that has representation from all staff and student
 groups and we aim for proportionate representation on all committees. Equality and Inclusion
 is a standing agenda item on all departmental meetings. We co-developed the University’s
 unconscious bias training, implementing this and mental health awareness training for all staff
 and reflect diversity in all our recruitment documentation.

 Flexible working, job share and part-time working are strongly supported. Flexible retirement,
 unpaid leave, career breaks and term-time only working are other schemes that are well
 received by staff and perceived as a real benefit from our analysis of survey responses. We aim
 to be inclusive via our “core hours” policy with all departmental meetings taking place in the
 10:00-16:00 window to support those with caring responsibilities.

 We continue to expand our focus in other areas of EDI and have started to consider social
 categorisation (and how to avoid it), for example, by analysing recruitment data by gender and
 ethnicity. We have provided a stand at the annual York Pride event since 2016. Outreach is
 another essential part of our EDI strategy, by aiming to enthuse primary and lower secondary
 school girls; more recent events have seen particularly strong attendance of BAME students. We
 recognise that some of these interventions do not produce immediate outcomes but note that
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 biases established over centuries do require long-term solutions to eradicate them. We are fully
 committed to such a long-term view.

 We are committed to EDI issues both at York and beyond. For example, Gai was the science
 representative at the OECD International Women’s Day in Paris 2015 and was celebrated as a
 female pioneer at the House of Commons Reception for Women Firsts. D’Amico organised the
 "Gender Balance in Science" meeting of the COST
 Action MP1403 in Florence, Italy, in 2015. We have
 been instrumental in supporting the IoP
 Undergraduate Women in Physics conference
 (CUWIP) since 2015 by encouraging attendance,
 contributing speakers and hosting the event in York
 in 2020. The conference empowers delegates who
 identify as women and gives them the confidence to
 make positive decisions for a career path based on
 their physics knowledge and skills.
                                                            Figure 5. Delegates interacting at
 As a result of our inclusive environment, our gender
                                                            CUWIP 2020 in York.
 paygap compares favourably to the rest of the UK.
 The paygap was 15.5% for the UK as a whole in 2020 (ONS data), which is comparable to that
 of Russell group universities. At the University of York, it is 15.3% (REF5a, 21), while the paygap
 in Physics has reduced from 8.5% to 4.5% since 2014. Clearly, we would like to achieve parity
 and are working with the IoP and the University towards this goal. As an early indication, we
 note that for employees on research-only contracts, the paygap has now been reversed and is
 6.5% in favour of female staff members. In line with the University’s Code of Practice, our REF
 submission has been informed by an equality impact assessment which analysed our output
 portfolio against age, disability, ethnicity and gender.

 2.4 Other support for career development
 Every staff member, including post-doctoral researchers, benefits from an annual performance
 review (APR) with their line manager. The APR is a supportive conversation which discusses
 progress, identifies areas for improvement, highlights opportunities and sets objectives.
 Suggested interventions may involve relieving duties to focus on research output, funding
 (Section 3.1), or impact (Section 1.11), alternatively to consider sabbatical leave or promotion.
 Our sabbatical scheme affords intellectual development away from York, for example by Probert
 (TU Munich 2015, University of Lille 2016), Jenkins (University of Strasbourg 2014/15),
 O’Connell (Trinity College Dublin 2018), and D’Amico (Institute of Physics Natal, Brazil 2019). To
 support promotion, we have established a promotion support committee which provides
 independent advice from senior colleagues for the development of promotion applications. Since
 introducing this committee, we have seen an increase in the number of applications from female
 colleagues who may otherwise have been reluctant to apply, with the result that the success rate
 for female promotion applications is now higher than that of their male colleagues.

 2.5 Support for research and impact - workload model
 Our fully transparent workload model actively encourages research and impact generation. The
 model assumes that staff members spend 40% of their time on research, including unfunded
 research, because we recognise the importance of curiosity-driven research. Once a staff
 member attracts >15% of their salary from external sources, their teaching and academic
 citizenship allocation is reduced pro-rata.

 2.6 Postdoctoral researchers
 The University of York became signatory of the Researcher Development Concordat in 2019
 (REF5a, 27) which highlights our commitment to the career development and well-being of
 postdoctoral and early career researchers (ECRs). They benefit from a comprehensive training
 package, including impact and public engagement, research integrity, open access and research
 data management. They have access to the university coaching scheme and its award-winning
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Leadership Training (REF5a, 22). ECRs are represented on the major departmental committees
 to have their voice heard and to gain managerial experience. We regularly run entrepreneurial
 training events highlighting the benefit for both their own career development and for
 encouraging incorporation of impact generation into their scientific approach; this includes
 courses operated by the Leeds-based GrowMedTech consortium, such as “Intellectual property
 for medical technologies” and “Developing medical devices”. Post-doctoral researchers are
 encouraged to co-develop funding proposals as researcher co-investigators and they are able to
 apply for 3-12 months of their own salary through university internal schemes to develop their
 research independence.

 The success of these mechanisms is apparent from the large number of successful fellowship
 applications, industrial and academic positions secured by our postdoctoral researchers (2.2).

 2.7 Postgraduate research students
 The Department operates highly effective and comprehensive postgraduate research (PGR)
 training. With 2.3 PGR students per FTE, we are in the top 10 of PGR student/staff ratios
 amongst UK physics departments. The size of this community ensures a true sense of cohort.
 We are also the lead institution for the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in the Science
 and Technology of Fusion Energy. PGR students are a key element of our research culture and
 fully integrated into the research activities of the department. Interdisciplinary research is
 supported particularly strongly, with many PhD students co-supervised by a staff member from
 another department.

 2.7.1 PGR recruitment and training
 We draw on a variety of sources to support this vibrant community. For example, in 2020, our
 postgraduate cohort consisted of 93 PhD and 7 MSc(R) students]. Of the MSc(R)s, 5 were self-
 funded and 2 were funded from external sources. Of the PhDs, 29 were directly funded by UKRI,
 7 jointly between UKRI and the department, 14 by the Department or University and 7 from other
 external organisations such as industry (Seagate, Osram), the Royal Society and others. In
 addition, 15 of the PhD students were self-funded, including overseas government funding,
 which is particularly noteworthy and attests to the attractiveness of our postgraduate
 programme. The Fusion CDT supports 21 PhD students at York, many of which are funded
 jointly with UKAEA (10), AWE (5), ITER (1) and Eurofusion (1).

 Our training and support activities are extensive and their success is evident from high on-time
 submission rates of PGR theses (85-90% over the REF period) and from the many prizes won
 by our students. Most supervisors meet their students weekly, with formally recorded meetings
 every 4-6 weeks. Formal meetings of the thesis advisory panel (TAP) happen twice a year,
 including the formal progression meeting that is not attended by the supervisor to encourage the
 student’s independence (REF5a, 31). Other support includes core training packages in research
 and transferable skills, mostly in year 1; allocation of a separate budget to encourage summer
 school and workshop attendance; location of students according to research topic to encourage
 cohort building; attendance at regular research group seminars and group meetings and award
 of the Stott Prize for the best PhD student. We also offer personally tailored support, including
 the assignment of professional mentors, for students with disabilities such as dyslexia or autism.
 The success of these measures is evidenced by the many prizes won by our students, as
 exemplified here:
 • 2019: IoP thesis prize (Verheagh); European Physical Society (EPS) PhD prize, Plasma
   Physics Division (Tubmann); GEC Student Award of Excellence (Doyle); Mazurian Lakes
   Conference on Physics poster prize (Llewellyn, Lomas).
 • 2018: IoP Ion and Plasma Surface Interactions thesis award (Shaw); Editor-in-Chief Award of
   the High Power Laser Science and Engineering journal (Bradford); Poster prizes: Canadian
   Association of Physics Congress, TRIUMF Science week (Dunling), International Nuclear
   Physics Conference (Morales).
 • 2017: Springer thesis prize (Colas); SPIE Photonics West poster prizes (Pitruzzello, Colas).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 • 2016: Springer thesis prize (Schuster); Nature Photonics prize, Photonic and Electromagnetic
   Crystal Structures (Colas); EPS Plasma Physics Conference poster prize (Bokshi, Willet);
   awards to present at the US Biophysical Society Conference (Miller, Zhou).
 • 2015: EPS Nuclear Physics in Astrophysics Conference poster prize (Garg)
 • 2014: American Physical Society Gaseous Electronics Conference Student Award for
   Excellence (A Gibson).
 A particular highlight was the participation of 2 York students at the "Falling Walls" finale in
 Berlin, which Pitruzzello attended as winner of the UK competition in 2019 after Schuster had
 done so in 2017 (REF5a, 32).

 Finally, we are pleased to note that Eurofusion, in its 2016 review of fusion education
 programmes in all EU member states, awarded its only 10/10 grade to the Fusion CDT at York.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The culture change we have achieved with respect to impact (Section 1.3) has been
 commensurate with a culture change in funded research. Funding opportunities, application
 rates and successes are discussed and celebrated at every meeting of the Departmental
 Research Committee. Pump-priming funding to explore new ideas, to build new collaborations
 and to generate pilot results is available both from the Department and the University. We use
 PhD stipends strategically to encourage collaborations that can open up new research
 opportunities. Two research facilitators in our Research Support Office aid staff members in all
 aspects of grant writing by highlighting suitable funding calls, encouraging submissions and
 helping with costings. Our internal peer-review system provides constructive criticism on all grant
 applications.

 3.1 Research income trends
 As a result of these interventions, our grant income has grown steadily over the assessment
 period and has doubled from £3.6M in 2013/14 to £7.2M (3-year average 2017/18 to 2019/20 to
 account for fluctuations due to large capital awards) significantly outperforming the increase in
 staff number (x1.5) and contributing to the University’s increase in UKRI market share from 1.5%
 to 2.1% (REF5a, 38). Very importantly, we have also significantly broadened the research base;
 68% of staff members are now principal investigators of externally funded grants or are lead
 investigators of the physics component of a grant; this wide distribution of awards is another
 clear indicator for the success of our diversity and inclusion strategy. As mentioned in Section
 1.10, our EPSRC grant portfolio is in the top 3 of all physics departments in the UK both for its
 volume and for the number of principal investigators.

 3.2. Infrastructure and local facilities
 The Department has established a range of State-of-the-Art research facilities since 2014 and
 has secured the following University infrastructure investments:

    ●   CMP Laboratories with pulsed laser deposition (PLD), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
        (XPS) and multi-chamber molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) capabilities and corresponding
        laboratory upgrades (£400k).
    ●   Nuclear Applications Laboratories for the development of State-of-the-Art radiation
        detection systems with strong industry connections (£350k).
    ●   A new 350 m2 Physics of Life research building, including new biophysics and category 2
        biohazard rated laboratories (£470k).
    ●   A new 300 m2 York Centre for Quantum Technologies, including the York-led Quantum
        Hub for Quantum Communications (£400k).
    ●   Extension of the York Plasma Institute by 500 m2, including a new post-graduate training
        suite and new joint laboratories with the Wolfson Atmospheric Chemistry Laboratories
        (£1M).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    ●   Major upgrade of the York JEOL Nanocentre with a focus on interdisciplinary research in
        Nanobiology with a Category 2 Biosafety lab, a BioScope Resolve AFM and a
        microfluidics fabrication suite (£700k).
    ●   Participation in the York Global Initiative for Safe Autonomy, a Research Partnership
        Investment Fund (RPIF £10.5M) project with a £1.2M University investment allocated to
        quantum physics research.

 These facilities are supported by a team of expert technicians who ensure upkeep and optimal
 use. Each research group also has 1-2 experimental officers who support researchers and
 take responsibility for the infrastructure related to particular research strands. The sustainability
 of these facilities is ensured by the University Research Development and Capital Support funds
 (REF5a, 10), co-funding with UKRI (including their Strategic Equipment Fund), commercial
 exploitation and related income, and most significantly, through our strongly growing research
 income (fig. 6). We are therefore confident that we can maintain these facilities and further
 expand them in the future.

 3.3 External facility access
 Given the nature of our research, many staff members use external facilities, which in most
 cases involves competitive application processes; in fact, our success in this area is exemplified
 by the number and quality of the output resulting from facility research and the fact that the total
 value of facility access secured by our staff members is comparable to the competitively
 won research funding. The strength of our connections to these facilities is further highlighted
 by the co-funding of several staff members, in particular:

    ●   Cavill lectureship funded 50% by DIAMOND Light Source 2015-18
    ●   Dobaczewski “Chair in Nuclear Theory” fully funded for 3.5 years by STFC 2015-18,
        following an open competition to address the strategic need for nuclear theory in the UK.
    ●   Lipschultz 40% funding from Culham Centre for Fusion Energy since 2014.
    ●   HR Wilson Programme Director (50%) at Culham 2017-2019.
    ●   Kepaptsoglu joint appointment with the EPSRC National Research Facility for Advanced
        Electron Microscopy (SuperSTEM, 2017-2022, 100% UKRI).

 Our key facility use over the REF period is valued at £35.9M. The figures quoted below have
 been provided by research funders or by facility heads and their evidence is available on
 request.

    a) UKRI Allocations (£16,401k)

  Facility                           User                                             Total (GBP)
  Central Laser Facility at RAL      Higginbotham, Lancaster, Murphy, Ridgers,        2,891k
                                     Tallents, Woolsey, Pasley, Read, Antonelli
  Computing: ARCHER,                 Cziegler, Dudson, Hasnip, McKenna, Noy,          392k
  THOMAS                             Probert, Vann, HR Wilson

  DIAMOND Light Source               Cavill, Kröger, Thompson, Vallejo-               1,516k
                                     Fernandez
  SuperSTEM                          Lazarov, Kepaptsoglou, Kröger, McKenna           629k
  ISIS Neutron and Muon Source       Lazarov                                          164k
  ILL                                Lazarov                                          149k
  CERN                               Andreyev, Dobaczewski, Jenkins, Pastore,         10,660k
                                     Wadsworth
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    b) International Allocations (£19,453k)

  ATLAS, Argonne Nat’l Lab           Andreyev, Petri                                   1,079k
  (US)
  AUG Garching (Germany)             Cziegler, Lipschultz                              285k
  CSC – IT Centre for Science        Dobaczewski                                       92k
  Ltd. (Finland).
  DIII-D, US DoE, San Diego,         HR Wilson                                         226k
  US
  Ganil, France                      Diget, Wadsworth (Emeritus since 2018)            3,598k
  GSI, Darmstadt, Germany            Paschalis                                         667k
  Jefferson Lab, US                  Bashkanov, Watts, Zachariou                       7,935k
  NSCL, Michigan State, US           Bentley, Petri, Wadsworth (Emeritus since         1,576k
                                     2018)
  MAMI, Mainz, Germany               Bashkanov, Watts, Zachariou                       764k
  TCV, Switzerland                   Lipschultz                                        304k
  TRIUMF, Vancouver, Canada          Laird                                             726k
  University of Jyvasklya,           Jenkins, Petri, Wadsworth (Emeritus since         1,858k
  Finland                            2018)
  JET Tokamak, Culham                Gibson, Lipschultz                                342k



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 National and international collaborations
 Collaborative research is at the heart of what we do, as already mentioned above in terms of
 national and international facilities, where York researchers sit on many panels. They approve
 and competitively win significant facility access time, such as at CERN, TRIUMF, GSI and at
 RIKEN for the Nuclear Physics group, UKAEA/Culham and Rutherford Appleton for Plasma
 Physics and at DIAMOND as well as supercomputers such as ARCHER for Condensed Matter
 Physics. The Quantum Hub also strongly supports collaboration between leading academic and
 industry groups. Interdisciplinarity is particularly driven by the Physics of Life group through joint
 appointments with Biology and with Archaeology. We have good links with the NHS, e.g.
 Hancock is spending her enterprise fellowship at Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Trust, London, and
 Krauss leads a Healthcare Impact partnership (EPSRC, £1.1M) with York Hospital NHS Trust.
 Physicists have also led the cross-faculty “Technologies for the Future” University Strategy
 theme since its inception in 2015.

 The Nuclear physics programme is necessarily international in nature as there are no
 experimental facilities for this research in the UK. Accordingly, the group has strong
 collaborations with various experimental and theoretical groups in Europe, North America, Japan
 India, China and South Africa. Similarly, Plasma Physics works with Fusion reactors in Germany
 and the US. CMP have very strong links to Japan, e.g. via the JSPS-EPSRC core-to-core grant
 on spintronic devices involving York, Tohoku and Kaiserslautern in Germany. CMP now also
 lead the EPSRC “International Spintronics Network” with partners Leeds, Manchester and
 leading institutions in France, Germany and Japan.

 We have partnered in a number of EU projects, most notably CMP/Magnetism (COMRAD,
 FEMTOTERABYTE), CMP/Photonics (ITN “PROPHET”), PoL (“SYNCROP”), Plasma
 (“PIONEER”) and a number of Eurofusion projects.

 Global Challenges. We strongly engage with the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF)
 programme and have had multiple sizeable projects funded, for example in South Africa (STFC
 £100k + £410k, nuclear detectors, Jenkins, fig.6a), in Vanuatu, South Pacific (EPSRC £1.2M,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 water sensors, Krauss co-I, fig. 6b) or in Nepal (EPSRC £548k, water testing, Krauss). Being
 exposed to the reality of resource-poor environments and explaining technology to people from a
 wide range of backgrounds is an interesting exercise in customer-focussed thinking that will also
 benefit our impact and translation work. Related activities include a British Council grant (£150k)
 to Pratt for developing gas sensors in Vietnam, a Royal Academy of Engineering grant (£140k)
 to O’Connell/Gans for plasma medicine technologies in Thailand, a visiting scientist position for
 Pasley at TFIR, Mumbai, (STFC Newton-Bhabha grant and RS Newton, £100k-£200k ea.) as
 well as Newton ECRs for D’Amico, Ferreira and Leake.




 Figure 6 a) South African researchers conducting Nuclear Physics research at York. b) Krauss
 collaborating with villagers in Vanuatu on the topic of water contamination.

 4.2 Fellowships and Prizes
 Dame Prathiba Gai (joint appointment with Chemistry, UOA8) was elevated to a Fellowship of
 the Royal Society in 2016, was made a Dame in the 2018 New Year’s Honours list, made
 Honorary Fellow of the Royal Microscopical Society 2018 and won the Asian Awards 2018, all
 for her work on environmental electron microscopy. Chantrell and O’Grady received the 2018
 Achievement Award of the IEEE Magnetics Society (first outside USA and Japan). Dobaczewski
 was awarded the Wojciech Rubinowicz prize 2015 and an honorary degree by the Claude
 Bernard Lyon University 2017. O’Connell was awarded the William Crookes Prize 2018 (EPS &
 IoP). Andreyev holds the prestigious position of Scientific Associate at CERN 2017-2018.
 Cziegler won the Simonyi Károly Memorial Prize of the Hungarian Nuclear Society 2015 and
 IUPAP Young Scientist Award for the Commission on Plasma Physics 2019. Pastore was
 declared an “Emerging Leader” by JPhys G as “one of the most exciting researchers of their
 generation”. Fulton received the IoP Phillips Award 2016 for distinguished service to the Institute
 and McLeish the Archbishop of Canterbury’s Lanfranc Award 2018. Kromek plc, translating the
 IP of Jenkins, won the IoP Business Innovation award 2016. Leake was elected Fellow of the
 Royal Society of Biology 2016. Thompson, Wadsworth, Leake, HR Wilson made Fellows of the
 IoP. Leake and McLeish shared the IoP Rosalind Franklin Prize as part of the “Physics of Life”
 team in 2020.

 4.3 Shaping Policy
 We have had major impact on UK Science policy, most notably in Quantum Technologies
 through Spiller and in Nuclear Fusion through HR Wilson. For example, Spiller was a main
 author of the influential Blackett report into Quantum Technologies, the National Security and
 Investment and Infrastructure Review Green Paper and he has acted as Quantum Technologies
 Adviser for the UK Department of International Trade. He has contributed to the UK government
 Science and Technology Committee 2017, Expert Roundtable on Future Technologies and
 Innovations, Westminster 2015, the UK-Singapore QKD Qubesat project 2018- and the UK
 Global Expert Mission (Quantum Technologies) to the US 2019. HR Wilson has shaped Fusion
 research by serving on the CCFE Programme Advisory Board to 2016, EURATOM Programme
 Advisory Committee 2014 – 2017, the Fusenet Scientific Council 2014 – 2018 and the UKAEA
 Executive Committee 2017-2020. He was Chair of the MAST-U Executive Board 2018-, UKAEA
 Research Programme Director 2017-2019, UKAEA Research Programme Director (2017-2019),
 UKAEA STEP Programme Director (2019 - present) and Chair of UK Tokamak Science Council
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2014 – 2018. Thompson was IoP Vice President, Science and Innovation 2015-2019, Fulton is
 IoP Honorary Secretary 2017-.

 4.4 Review and Advisory Panels
 The depth of involvement in international facilities and our commitment to sustaining the
 discipline is best evidenced by the following list, which also highlights the fact that a large
 fraction (>50%) of staff members are involved in such strategic roles, again highlighting our
 inclusive environment.

 Andreyev, Riken, Japan, Programme Advisory Panel (2014-), ILL, Grenoble, Programme
 Advisory Panel (2015-); Bentley STFC Nuclear Physics Programme Evaluation Panel (2018);
 D’Amico EPS Council (2017-); Dudson, ARCHER Plasma Physics Resource Allocation Panel
 (2014 – 2020); Dobaczewski, STFC DiRAC Oversight Committee (2017-2020), Particle
 Physics/Nuclear Theory sub-panel (2018-2021), Advisor to CERN-ISOLDE and Neutron Time-
 of-Flight Committee (2013-2016), Advisor to Belgian FNRS Commission (2010-); Fulton, STFC
 Science Board (2014, International panel member on SciDAC Review Committee, US (2017),
 Advisory Board for the Helmholtz Foundation Felsenkeller Underground Laboratory (2017-2020);
 Gai, RAEng Fellowship Committee 2018-2019, RS Fellowship Committee (2018-2019); Gans,
 Vice-Chair of the British Vacuum Council (2017-2020), Chair (2020-), Chair of International
 Union for Vacuum Science & Techniques Plasma Division (2013-2016), EPSRC instrumentation
 panel member (2014-2015, 2019); Godby, Steering Committee, European Theoretical
 Spectroscopy Facility (2005-); Hasnip, ARCHER2 Expert Benchmarking Team; Higginbotham,
 UK/US MURI project renewal panel member (2018), Chair of HiBEF Technical Advisory
 Committee (2014-), Member of XFEL HED Instrument Advisory Review Team (2012-2014);
 Jenkins, Consultant to BEIS on Nuclear Data (2017-2019), STFC Science Board (2019-); Leech,
 STFC Advisory panel for public engagement (2016-); Kepaptsoglu, SuperSTEM advisory
 committee member (2017-); Krauss, International Advisor on Helmholtz Association Funding
 (2017), Advisor to Methusalem large project, University of Gent 2013-; Laird, Program Advisory
 Committee, Argonne National Laboratory (2019-), STFC Cross Community Committee (2017-),
 STFC Education Training and Careers Committee member (2016-), Chair of Nuclear
 Astrophysics Working group for NuPECC Long range plan 2015; Leake, Secretary IoP Biological
 Physics Group (2019-), RS Research Grants Panel and International Exchange Panel (2018-);
 Lipschultz, DIFFER evaluation panel, NL, (2016-); McLeish, Royal Society Education Committee
 Chair (2015-2019); Royal Society Council Member (2020-), REF2021 physics panel, Chair
 Harvard Knox Fellowship Committee (2015-); McKenna, UK High-End Computing Materials
 Steering Committee (2018-); Murphy, RS Newton International Fellowship panel (2018), Plasma
 Wakefield Accelerator Steering Committee member (2017-); O’Connell, Evaluation of
 Portuguese Science and Technology (2019); O’Grady, Advisor of Institution of Engineering and
 Technology (IET) (2014-); Pasley, STFC Central Laser Facility Access Panel (2016-), STFC
 Computing Advisory Panel (2013-2017), EPS Beam Plasma and Inertial Fusion board (2010-
 2015); Petri, Deputy Director of the Scientific Board of R3B Collaboration (2015); Probert, Chair
 of UK Car-Parrinello Consortium, ARCHER2 Science Board member; Spiller, Advisory Board on
 the EMPIR project, NPL (2015-); Thompson, RS University Fellowships Panel member and
 Deputy Chair (2016-2021), Heads of Physics Forum Steering Committee (2014-2017);
 Wadsworth, European Neutron Detector Array (NEDA) board (2014-2020), STFC Nuclear
 Physics Advisory Panel (2013-2016), Legnaro National Laboratory, Italy Advisory Panel (2013-
 2014), ILL, Grenoble Advisory Panel (2013-2014); HR Wilson, KSTAR Tokamak International
 Programme Advisory Committee (2018-), Advisor to the Commission on Plasma Physics of the
 International Union of Pure and Applied Physics (2014-).

 4.5 Journal editorships
 Objective peer review makes an essential contribution to the health of the discipline, which we
 support through a number of leading roles.

 Dobaczewski, Editor-in-Chief, J Phys G (2017-); Fulton, Board member of IoP Publishing (2018-
 21); Jenkins, Series Editor Nuclear Physics, IoP Publishing; Krauss, Associate Editor, Optica
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (2016-2020), Deputy Editor (2020-); Leake, Open Science (2015-) and Scientific Reports (2015-)
 editorial board; O’Connell, Editor of IEEE Transactions on Radiation and Plasma Medical
 Sciences (2016-), Scientific Reports editorial board (2016-), Editor of Journal of Vacuum Science
 and Technology (2015-), Guest Editor Biointerfaces (2015), Plasma Medicine editorial board
 (2014-), Plasma Sources Science and Technology editorial board (2014-2015); Spiller, IET
 Quantum Communication editorial board (2019-); Wagenaars, Journal of Optical Physics (2013-
 2014); Wilson, Nuclear Fusion (2014-2018); Wilson-Rae, Journal of Optics (2015-2017).

 4.6 Keynote/plenary talks
 York physicists have delivered over 1000 invited talks at international workshops and
 conferences. Of these, >50 were keynote or plenary talks as listed below.

 Andreyev, GSI, Darmstadt 2020, NN2018, Japan, “Fission at Isolde” CERN 2018; Bashkanov,
 Int. Conference on the Structure of Baryons, Florida 2016; Chantrell, International Symposium
 on Magnetism, Moscow 2017, International Conference on Hysteresis in Magnetic Materials Iasi,
 Romania 2015; Diget, Nordic Meeting on Nuclear Physics 2015; Fulton, 36th International School
 of Nuclear Physics, Erice, Sicily 2014; Ferreira, Brazilian Physics Society 2016, Nanoportugal,
 Lisbon 2018, 13th International School on Theoretical Physics, Rzeszów, Poland 2018; Gai,
 MRS Spring Meeting, 2015; Gans, Plathinium, Antibes, France, 2019, SAPP-EU-Japan
 Symposium, Slovakia 2019, International Conference on Plasma Spectroscopy, Oxford 2018;
 Jenkins, Fusion in massive stars, Turkey 2019, Int Conference on Nuclear Structure Properties,
 Turkey 2019; Krauss, Nanophotonics Berlin, 2015, Australian Inst of Physics, Perth 2018;
 Leake, Life Science Conference on Single Cells, Gothenburg 2015; McLeish American Chemical
 Society Philadelphia 2020, Science Literacy Congress, Beijing, September 2018, Flow and
 Assembly, Okinawa 2018 International Congress in Rheology 2016, James White Memorial
 Lecture, Uni of Akron, USA 2015; O’Connell International Conference on Chemical Kinetics,
 Orleans 2019, International Symposium on New Plasma and Electrical Discharge Applications,
 Corsica 2019, 7th International Conference on Plasma Medicine, Philadelphia 2018, 24th
 Europhysics Conference on the Atomic and Molecular Physics of Ionized Gases, Glasgow 2018,
 5th International Workshop Plasma Science and Interfaces, Switzerland 2018, 81st IUVSTA
 Workshop on Response of Biological Materials to Plasma Treated Medium, Slovenia 2017;
 O’Grady, IEEE Intermag, Singapore 2018; Pastore, GDR-RESANT Orsay France 2018, Recent
 Progress in Many Body Theories 20, Toulouse 2019; Spiller, 2nd IEEE British and Irish
 Conference on Optics and Photonics London 2019, Cyber Security and Quantum Computing
 Symposium, Great Malvern 2018, SPIE Security and Defence Edinburgh 2016, IPAQS
 Symposium, Edinburgh 2016; Wagenaars, 15th International conference on Plasma Surface
 Engineering, Germany 2016; HR Wilson, 42nd EPS Conference on Plasma Physics, Lisbon,
 Portugal 2015; Wilson Royal Society scientific discussion meeting on Fusion power, London
 2018; Zachariou, DSPIN Dubna, Russia 2017, European Few-Body Problems Aarhus, Denmark
 2016.

 4.7 Conference organisation
 York researchers have made major contributions to the discipline by organising conferences in
 all fields of study; these are listed below. In addition, we serve on many of the leading
 conference committees which are too numerous to list, such as meetings of the Materials
 Research Society, the Optical Society, MMM-Intermag, Low-Temperature Plasmas, Gamma-
 Ray Spectroscopy and many others.

 Conferences that we have organised or led are; Bentley, NUSTAR, York 2016; Dudson,
 BOUT++ workshop, York 2015-2019; Ferreira, First-Principles Modelling of 2D Materials, York
 2018, Chair of Programme Committee for Recent Progress in Spintronics of 2D Materials,
 Taiwan 2016, 1-Day International Symposium on 2D Materials, York 2016; Hasnip, Organiser of
 CASTEP Developer Workshop, Oxford 2017, 2019, CASTEP Community Meeting, Oxford 2017,
 Workshop on "Atomic scale materials microscopy” York 2017; Jenkins, India-UK Seminar on
 Nuclear Physics with ISOLDE, Chandigarh, India (2014), Workshop on Large Arrays of Novel
 Scintillators, Dublin 2014; Kepaptsoglu, NEXT-TEM Microscopy & Microanalysis, Portland, US
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2019, 7th SuperSTEM Summer School, Daresbury 2018; Krauss, Photonic & Electromagnetic
 Crystal Structures, York 2016; Lazarov, Microscience Microscopy Congress, Manchester 2014;
 McLeish, RS Discussion Meetings 2017 and 2020, Statistical Mechanics of Evolution 2018,
 Physics of Brains 2020; McKenna, Workshop on Charge Trapping Defects in Semiconductors
 and Insulators, York 2017, Psi-k workshop: Atomic scale materials microscopy, York 2017,
 Workshop on Interfaces in Thin-Film Photovoltaics, Durham 2020; O’Grady, York-Tohoku-
 Kaiserslautern Symposium 2019, 2017, 2015, IoP Magnetism Winter School, York 2016; Pratt,
 Emerging Trends in Magnetic Materials and Spintronics, York 2017; Pastore, School Director
 20th STFC Summer School St. Andrews 2019; Probert Organiser of Theory, Modelling and
 Computational Methods for Semiconductors EU-TMCS-II, Cork 2016; Probert, New Horizons in
 Atomistic Modelling, York 2018; Vallejo-Fernandez, IoP Magnetism Winter School, York 2015,
 IoP Magnetism, Leeds 2015; Wagenaars, Workshop on the exploration of low temperature
 plasma physics, Netherlands 2013-2019; Yuan, IoP EMAG 2013-2018, MMC 2017.

 4.8 Contribution to economy and society
 In addition to achieving academic impact, our strategic goal of REF 2014 was to ensure
 industrial impact (Section 1.2.2) by closely working with a number of leading national and
 international industry partners; key examples are listed in the table below and in our impact case
 studies.

  Industry partner     Sector             Collaboration       Sponsorship              PI
  Seagate Northern     Magnetic disc      Thin film           Co-funding 2             O’Grady,
  Ireland,             drives             technology,         lectureships, 10 PhD     Chantrell,
  California,                             advanced            studentships & lab       Vallejo-
  Bangkok                                 modelling           refurb, >£1M in total;   Fernandez
                                          (see ICS)           Royal Society Industry
                                                              fellowship support
  Kromek UK            Nuclear       Development of           Co-funding 1             Jenkins,
                       Detectors     detector                 lectureship              Krauss
                                     technologies             Innovate UK project
                                     (see ICS)                (£500k)
  Intel Ireland        Computer      Monitoring for           £1.5M equipment          Gans
                       chip          plasma                   donation; £200k
                       manufacturing manufacturing            contract research;
                                                              Support £2.5M
                                                              EPSRC grant
  Advanced             Information        Seagate, Western    2 PhD students           O’Grady
  Storage Tech,        storage            Digital
  Northern Ireland
  Nedo/Toyota,         Materials for      Advanced            1 PhD student            Chantrell,
  Japan                novel electric     modelling                                    Evans
                       motors             (see ICS)
  Greatcell Solar,     Dye and            Material design     Project partner on 2     McKenna
  Australia            perovskite         optimisation        EPSRC projects
                       solar cells                            (EPSRC >£1M)
  Cristal Global,      TiO2 products      Nanomaterial        Project partner on       McKenna
  UK                   for solar cells/   design              EPSRC project
                       photocatalysis     optimisation        (EPSRC>£1M)
  Unilever, UK         Home &             Biofilm             Innovate UK project      L Wilson
                       personal care      investigation       (£300k)
                       products                               PhD studentship
  Osram, Germany       Light sources      Sensor technology   Fully funded PhD         Krauss
                                          development         studentship
  Quantum        Quantum                  ADVA, BT, ID        Support of >£50M         Spiller
  Communications Technologies             Quantique, NPL,     EPSRC grants
  Hub, UK                                 Toshiba
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.9 Public engagement with research
 We have a strong ethos of engaging public audiences with research (see ICS). We reach in
 excess of 15,000 people annually through face-to-face interactions, with greater numbers
 engaged through podcasts, media appearances, and online content. Over 55% of academic staff
 contribute to the programme of activities. Public engagement with research is recognised at all
 levels: Diget is an STFC Leadership Fellow in Public Engagement; Rawes (support staff) and
 Trickey (PhD student) are members of STFC’s Public Engagement Early-Career Forum. The
 Outreach and Public Engagement team Coordinator Leech is recognised nationally as a
 member of STFC’s Advisory Panel for Public Engagement and contributing to the STFC
 Publication ‘Pathways to Excellence in Public Engagement’. We were selected by the UK Space
 Agency to host one of two national Principia conferences in 2016 and the National Schools
 Space Conference in 2020.

 We engage with diverse communities through our research. For example, primary school age
 children and their parents and carers experience hands-on exhibitions in events such as York
 Researchers’ Night and the York Festival of Ideas (which attracts an audience of over 30,000
 annually), where the Quantum Hub is also regularly represented, e.g. Spiller debated the Future
 of Cyber Security 2015 and organised the Quantum short film screening in 2019. Spiller was
 also a panellist at the “Quantum in the City” event at the Royal Institution in 2019. We run four-
 week Nuffield research placements and year-long programmes with regular interventions
 designed to encourage under-represented groups to consider Physics (including girls and
 widening participation students).

 Our Nuclear Astrophysics research is communicated in fortnightly openings of our own
 observatory, the Astrocampus. Primary school children are targeted through formal education,
 including visits from our inflatable planetarium (the Cosmodome) and demonstration lectures
 (1820 attendees for 11 events in 2015/16, 3000 attendees in 29 events 2017/18), as well as
 through youth groups (such as Cubs and Brownies, 40 groups per year) with tailored sessions
 on the Astrocampus.

 We run curriculum-linked Nuclear Masterclasses. Our flagship is the LEGO-based nuclear
 ‘Binding Blocks’ activity “Building the universe one nucleus at a time” which beautifully
 showcases our Nuclear Physics research to A-level students (see ICS, fig. 7a). The Outreach
 team keeps a detailed log of participation at these events; the 120-140 events it runs a year
 have an approximate reach of 15,000 attendees.
  a)                            b)                                   c)




 Figure 7. Examples of our Outreach work. a) Nuclear binding blocks; b) British astronaut Tim
 Peake greeting more than 400 students across 80 schools in Nov 2018; c) Astrocampus.

 We communicate widely via the national media, e.g. as part of GCSE Science Live by
 Lancaster, in the company of very high-profile scientists such as Jim Al-Khalili and Maggie
 Aderin-Pocock, drawing audiences of thousands for each event. Brunsden was an astrophysics
 expert on Victoria Derbyshire, BBC News, BBC World News, Sky News, and BBC R5 Live.
 McLeish contributed to BBC R4 “Scientifically speaking”, “The Secret History of Science and
 Religion” and is a regular “Thought for the Day” speaker. Lancaster featured in the plasma
 episode of “In Our Time” on BBC Radio 4 and a fusion episode of BBC CrowdScience for the
 BBC World Service, downloads of which are around 170k per month and rising. We offer two
 podcasts: Fusion-based ‘A glass of seawater’ (Lancaster) which has over 180 downloads per
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 month and won the Rutherford Plasma Physics Communication Prize in 2019, as well as
 astrophysics-based ‘Syzygy’ (Brunsden) which averages 1000-1200 downloads per month.

 We work closely with the National STEM Learning Centre where we provide expertise for
 national teacher training courses in Nuclear, Quantum and Astrophysics; we work with local
 programmes that pair teacher training with school interventions to upskill teachers as well as
 engaging young people directly. Up to 20 schools (primary and secondary) participate in our
 local programme each year, often with several teachers from each school participating, and our
 academic staff reach around 70 - 100 teachers through national CPD courses each year.

 In addition to face-to-face engagement, the Department is strongly involved in communicating
 research through ‘Physics Review’ – a quarterly magazine for A-level students that is distributed
 nationally and that has been edited by York researchers since its conception 30 years ago. The
 magazine had 3,523 subscribers in 2019-20, of which 695 were school subscriptions.
