Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UOA23 Education

 1. Unit context

 Our Unit
 The focal point for the University of Huddersfield’s submission for UOA23 is the Huddersfield
 Centre for Research in Education and Society (HudCRES) based in the School of Education and
 Professional Development (SEPD). All submitted staff work in SEPD. Huddersfield’s historic
 strength in research on post-16 education, training and professional practice was central to our
 submissions in RAE2008 and REF2014, but, consistent with the strategy outlined in our 2014
 submission, we have broadened the scope of our work to develop high quality and innovative
 research in the educational experiences of marginalised young people; educational approaches
 to preventing extremism and broader issues of race and ethnicity in education; and pedagogical
 practices and childhood. Our Unit is unusual in its conception of educational research as not
 only spanning the full age range from early years to adult education, but also in its appreciation
 of the capacity of informal education and associated educational research to impact powerfully
 on the lives of communities outside formal institutions.

 Guided by our Institutional Strategy identified in the Institutional Environment Statement,
 HudCRES is the key strategic vehicle for our submission and includes all SEPD staff and PGRs,
 framing our research culture and acting as the driving force for the growing quantity, diversity
 and quality of our research. Since REF2014, we have grown in scale, complexity and influence
 on academic and professional fields, working from our thriving, inclusive research environment.
 The number of researchers submitted - 24.70FTE - is now more than double REF2014 (FTE:
 11.75) and more than treble RAE2008 (FTE: 7.0). In this assessment period our doctoral
 completions have doubled, and our research income has both increased by more than 50% and
 involved significant international research collaborations for the first time.

 Unit development has been guided by a long-term research strategy, framed by principles of
 equality, diversity and inclusion, and focused on supporting colleagues, many of whom come
 from professional practitioner backgrounds, to develop their research skills and profiles, and to
 grow international research collaborations and research collaborations with end-users and
 stakeholders. This strategy is central to the sustainability and vitality of educational research at
 Huddersfield, and will continue to guide our development through to REF2028, where we aim to
 achieve a further step change in our research quality and a 50% growth in the scale of our
 submission.

 Our Research Strategy
 The establishment of HudCRES as a development of our earlier research centre has been
 driven by engagement both with the SEPD academic community and our external stakeholders.
 This was reflected in the systematic post-REF2014 review, guided by an Advisory Group of
 educational end-users: senior leaders from Further Education (FE), schools, Youth and
 Community Work; and the cultural sector, which continues to contribute to the planning of
 external research events and sustains our end-user engagement. The review process resulted in
 the establishment of HudCRES, enhanced support and collaboration structures, the expansion
 of our research portfolio (Section 3) and the increase in international research collaborations,
 which include a strong focus on interdisciplinary research (Section 4).
 Our strategic research aims focus on:
      Increasing the scale and breadth of Unit research activity to include thematic research
         around marginalised young people; educational approaches to preventing extremism and
         broader issues of race and ethnicity in education; and pedagogical practices and
         childhood;
      Ensuring all Category A staff are active, successful researchers through providing an
         inclusive, open environment that is supportive, has high expectations and drives future
         research vitality and impact;

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Ambitious growth in externally funded research, increased international collaboration and
        citations;
       Further developing our interdisciplinary research activity and innovative research
        methods.

 In order that we can achieve:
      Enhanced stakeholder, end-user and publicly-engaged open research that generates
        impact in society;
      A step-change in the quantity and range of our internationally collaborative research;
      Research with and about under-represented communities, informed by principles of
        social justice.

 To achieve these strategic research aims, we have implemented the following research
 development plan:
     A comprehensive strategy of researcher development and support: research mentoring
        and a Supported Writing Programme; fully-funded Writing Retreats with professorial
        support; fully-funded research sabbaticals; fully-funded international conference
        presentations (Section 2);
     An enhanced Unit Research Development Team (expanded from 1 to 3 staff, all
        permanent contracts) to provide ‘wrap around’ support;
     A systematic, funded approach to developing international research collaboration and
        partnerships through visiting appointments, international research symposia for
        staff/PGRs (5 during the assessment period), and lecture visits to international
        institutions;
     The development of HudCRES’s communications portfolio, including the newsletter for
        academic partners and end-users, a Twitter feed and blog;
     A programme of high-profile, public lectures presented by renowned education
        researchers;
     A series of research seminars aimed at international, national and local audiences
        (delivered on-line during the pandemic): 23 seminars and 6 international symposia during
        the assessment period;
     A bi-annual HudCRES conference enabling end-users from schools, colleges, youth and
        community organisations and local authorities to participate in workshops;
     An Annual School Research Conference;
     Participation in institutional research outreach.

 Unit Structure
 The Unit’s research strategy is led by the Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise (ADRE)
 (Thomas). Appointed in 2015, Thomas led the systematic Unit review and subsequent research
 strategy development. The ADRE is a member of SEPD’s Dean’s (Bryan) Executive Group
 (DEG), so ensuring that research is a central pillar of SEPD strategy. HudCRES’s public-facing
 activity is led by the Director of Research (DOR) (Lomax), supported by the SEPD Research
 Development Manager (Stott). Two further Research Development Team appointments were
 made during this period: Research Bidding Development Officer (McLean) and the Business
 Development, Partnership Engagement and Research Knowledge Exchange Impact Manager
 (Jensen). Guided by our institutional research strategy, SEPD’s research strategy and aims
 were developed by the ADRE and DEG, approved by the School Research and Enterprise
 Committee (SREC) and are subject to on-going evaluation and review. Work-strands are led by
 the Research Leadership group, comprising the Professoriate and Research Development
 Team, coordinated through bi-monthly meetings.

 Impact and Public Engagement Strategy
 Unit research activity has responded to national and international policy that aligns with UK
 Research and Innovation’s (UKRI) public engagement vision to engage under-represented
 communities. Our research involves educational end-users in formal and non-formal education
 settings, policy-makers, policy-influencers and practitioners. This includes co-creation, co-

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 design, and formative and summative engagement. ‘Open research’ is integral to this strategy,
 with our outputs publicly available, QR funding used to enable immediate open access for new
 publications, and research data being made publicly available (such as through the Corona
 Chronicles CHEER project).

 Our Impact and Public Engagement strategy has been built around:
     Appointment of Jensen, the first Impact Officer appointment within the Institution, to
       develop and support impact and public engagement, evidenced by the further
       development of our strategic approaches to Impact outlined in Section 4 and by our
       Impact Case Studies;
     Individualised support on impact evidence collection, led by MacDonald and Jensen,
       with the development of plans for engaging different audiences, such as the creation of
       an infographic telling the story of key findings from research related to marginalised
       young people.

 Our research with Impact is exemplified by our three Impact Case Studies submitted to
 REF2021:
     Shaping National and International Counter-Terrorism Policy through the Development of
        Effective Educational Approaches to Prevent Terrorism: Thomas and colleagues (Refer
        to Impact Case Study 1);
     Enabling Organisations and Practitioners to Challenge Stereotypes and Effectively
        Engage Young People on the Margins of Education, Employment and Training:
        Simmons and colleagues (Refer to Impact Case Study 2);
     Improving Curriculum and Pedagogy in Initial Teacher Education and Influencing the
        Policy Debate in the English Further Education Sector: Orr and colleagues (Refer to
        Impact Case Study 3).

 Impactful research is widespread in the School, e.g., Williamson’s (Staff PGR) ‘Art Activist
 Barbie’ with museums and galleries, educational practitioners and the public.

 The first HudCRES stakeholder engagement event, the ‘Research Showcase’ (June 2016),
 raised awareness of the Unit’s research, highlighting co-production and Impact and promoted
 dialogue about future collaborative research and bidding. The audience comprised senior
 representatives from key external partners. The second event, ‘HudCRES In Conversation’, was
 planned with our Advisory Group, held in June 2018 attracting over 50 educational colleagues
 from end-user organisations. The third event ‘The ‘HudCRES Research Festival’ was planned
 for June 2020 (postponed because of Covid-19).
 Our stakeholder-engaged, methodologically innovative research is also evident in Covid-19
 related research, including research funded by Yorkshire School Academy Trusts (Lomax,
 Reynolds), and internally funded (MacDonald, Reid, Russell) participatory action research
 projects with children, young people, care-givers and education professionals. Focused on
 lockdown and home-schooling during the pandemic, each is producing tangible impacts locally
 (e.g., providing resources to support wellbeing in children, young people and professionals). As
 one of very few studies seeking to qualitatively understand the experiences of UK primary-aged
 children, Lomax has provided evidence to the Department for Education (DfE) and Parliament’s
 Education Select Committee on the impact of school closure on children’s mental health. The
 Unit is currently developing a ‘policy briefing’ based on findings from these five projects, and all
 are seeking follow-on funding. These projects demonstrate the Unit’s ability to respond rapidly to
 issues of social and educational concern and provide impetus for further research development.

 Research Integrity
 Promoting and maintaining high standards of research integrity is a Unit priority. Our research
 engages with human subjects, and consequently, ethical procedures are a major focus for us.
 Complying with the British Educational Research Association’s (BERA) Ethical Guidelines is
 integral to all the Unit’s research, from undergraduate dissertations to externally-funded research
 projects. All staff intending to carry out empirical research (funded or un-funded) complete a

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Peer and Ethical Review’ form, which is reviewed by two senior researchers. Required
 modifications must be accepted before ethical approval is ratified by the School’s ‘Research
 Integrity and Ethics’ sub-committee (Chair: Simmons), accountable to the School Research and
 Enterprise Committee (Chair: Lomax) and to the University Research Group. Staff confirm in
 their appraisal that projects remain unaltered, with modifications requiring ethical reassessment.
 PGRs require ethical approval before approval of the research proposal, and adherence is
 scrutinised at annual Progress Review Viva’s (see Section 2). The Concordat to support
 researcher career development is integral to our research activity. All research stakeholders are
 considered at every level of research and ECRs are supported through strategies outlined in
 Section 2. Thus, integrity and quality are consistently reviewed through ethical approval and
 review mechanisms, through our research mentoring scheme, and the associated Supported
 Writing Programme.

 2. People

 Our Staffing and Researcher Development Strategy
 The Unit approach to staffing and staff development reflects our broader Institutional Strategy.
 All academic staff in the Institution have dual teaching and research or research-only contracts,
 all hold, or must complete, a doctorate, and all are expected and supported to publish to an
 international standard. Research targets within the Institution’s past (2013-18) and current
 (2018-2025) Strategy Maps reflect this expectation. The Unit staffing approach is underpinned
 by University Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) and ‘People First’ strategies. Huddersfield is
 committed to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and
 received an eight-year renewal of its ‘HR Research Excellence’ award through a process
 involving an SEPD ECR (Lavender). The Institutional adoption of Chartered Management
 Institute (CMI) programmes has led to 4 Unit members being CMI Affiliates, 7 CMI Members and
 7 CMI Fellows. CROS, PIRLS and more recently CEDARS national survey data are used to
 benchmark staff development. Our staffing and researcher development strategy has also been
 designed to respond to the profile of staff in the Unit and to engender sustainability through our
 researcher development activity.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion within our Staffing and Researcher Development
 Strategy
 The majority of staff have non-traditional research trajectories, joining SEPD without a doctorate,
 following educational practitioner employment. Hence, 83% of School staff and 90% of
 submitted staff are aged 45 years or older. This professional expertise is reflected in the fact that
 of SEPD’s 65 academic staff, 48 are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy (HEA), 11 Senior
 Fellows, 1 Principal Fellow, and 1 a National Teaching Fellow. 50% of the Unit’s professoriate is
 female (including Bryan, the Dean) and of the 65 staff, 48 are female, and 17 are male,
 reflecting the increasingly feminised profile of the educational workforce. 26 of the 28 relatively
 recent appointments who are Staff PGRs are female. Staff have significant teaching loads and
 many have caring responsibilities. Nevertheless, our research strategy over successive REF
 cycles has had as a first aim to broaden and extend research activity and to allow for the
 flourishing of a wider and deeper research culture. Hence, the number of staff submitted has
 tripled compared with RAE2008. REF2014’s submission represented a doubling of scale, with
 the 14 staff submitted representing a 50/50 gender balance. This has been maintained even with
 the further doubling of staff submitted here to 29 (15 female; 14 male). Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI) were central to the Unit’s reviewing and selection of outputs for submission.
 Mixed gender review teams were selected from our gender-balanced reviewer pool, overseen by
 our gender-balanced Unit Management Group (Bryan, Lomax, Russell - female; MacDonald,
 Simmons, Thomas - male). Outputs selected for submission reflect the gender balance of staff
 submitted. We have been extremely successful in developing the research careers of female
 colleagues; this has been the key plank of our staff and researcher development strategy and is
 central to our claim that we now have a mature and flourishing Unit research environment.

 Our focus on ensuring a continued gender balance in our research is underpinned via
 committees such as Athena Swan, AURORA (3 completed during this period and 2 in progress)

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the Cross-Institutional Women Action Learning Sets (Universities in Yorkshire and the
 North-East), which Russell completed in 2017/18 before promotion to Reader (2019). A reduced
 teaching load post - maternity leave is offered and SEPD is working towards Athena Swan
 Bronze. Our Institution has retained its Athena Swan Bronze award and is actively working
 towards Silver. Miller was the first Black Professor of Educational Leadership and Management
 appointed in the UK, joining in 2016, researching institutional racism and race inequality in
 school leadership (see Section 4) and SEPD has a Race Equality working group to address
 identified ethnic disparities within the School’s operations.

 Leading our Staffing and Researcher Development Strategy
 All academic staff are allocated 20% research time. SEPD has a transparent work-loading model
 where individual allocations are shared. Over 40% of SEPD’s staff are PGRs (15 gained
 doctorates during this assessment period) and have doctoral fees paid (over £200,000 invested
 in this period compared to £155,660 in previous period).

 Individual research is reviewed and goals agreed with line managers (advised by the ADRE)
 during annual appraisals. For post-doctoral staff, goals and work-loading allowances can include
 externally-funded projects, Impact and public engagement or the development of new bids. All
 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are allocated Research Mentors, meeting regularly. This has
 produced joint publications (e.g. Allatt and Tett; Bishop and Sanderson). From 2020, this has
 been overlaid by our Supported Writing Programme, which includes Staff PGRs and
 encompasses mentoring, formative feedback on new draft outputs and peer support to drive
 further publication success.

 This has enabled us to build capacity and sustainability whereby senior staff and emerging
 researchers collaborate, contributing to the research culture. Research leaders - Professors and
 Readers - play a vital role in leading the strategy through a distributed leadership model (e.g.,
 Lomax leading HudCRES external-facing activities with Stott; MacDonald leading Impact
 development with Jensen; Russell as UoA coordinator; Simmons leading output quality
 reviewing process with Stott). Research leaders provide mentoring and leadership of our
 Supported Writing Programme (Bryan, Lomax, Simmons, Thomas) and supervise Staff PGRs.
 Six Professors (3 female, 3 male) have full time contracts, and five are employed on a p/t basis
 with 2x 0.5fte, both male; 3x 0.2fte (2 female, 1 male). The Professoriate represents 7.3 FTE of
 the Unit’s 24.70 FTE submission (which represents 45% of total SEPD academic staff), and
 demonstrates the Unit’s considerable investment in and support for research leadership
 capacity. Four research leaders have either retired (Avis, Colley, and Fink, one male, two
 female) or moved on (Miller, male) during the assessment period, and four Professors have
 been recruited to drive our new research strategy (Bryan, Lomax, Miller and MacDonald, two
 female, two male) through their individual specialisms and broader contribution to the research
 culture (e.g. Bryan working with Staff PGRs in ITE; Lomax working with Staff PGRs and ECRs
 in early years and childhood). The Unit has a strategy to drive further research leadership
 promotions, through appraisals and mentoring from the ADRE and Dean (e.g. Russell promoted
 to Reader, 2019).

 Implementing our Staffing and Researcher Development Strategy
 The Unit Staffing and Researcher Development Strategy is implemented as follows:

       Research Mentoring and the Supported Writing Programme: see above;
       Funded Writing Retreats: Since 2010, SEPD has fully-funded staff attendance (in work
        time) at three-day writing retreats held at Europe’s only residential library (The
        Gladstone Library, Flintshire). This long-term, high-quality support for academic writing
        has been central to the exponential growth in Unit scale over the past two assessment
        periods. Popular with staff, particularly those with caring responsibilities, they provide
        space, dedicated time and professorial and peer support. During this assessment period
        there have been 15 Writing Retreats with 47 members of staff having taken part in one
        or more. Each group of 8-12 participants is accompanied and supported by a member of


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         the professoriate. The Retreats have supported numerous publications and 10 staff in
         gaining their doctorates;
        Fully-funded conference presentation support: All staff have been fully-funded through
         QR, to present at two international, peer-reviewed research conferences per annum,
         including one overseas. Resultingly, staff numbers presenting have increased from 18 in
         2014/15 to 45 in 2018/19. In this period, staff made 285 presentations compared with
         175 in the REF20014 period. The mentoring process has supported staff in having
         abstracts competitively selected for high profile conferences. Conference attendance is
         targeted during appraisals. Presentation at non-UK conferences has been encouraged
         as part of our wider international research collaboration strategy, leading to tangible
         research collaborations (Section 3). There has been a substantial increase in the Unit’s
         overall number of non-UK international conference presentations (over 100 during this
         assessment period, with 13 non-UK conference presentations in 2013/14 doubling to 27
         in 2017/18);
        HudCRES lecture visits to international institutions: Utilising QR and Institutional
         University Research Fund (URF) support, we have fully-supported collaborations
         between early or mid-career researchers and senior researchers to visit and present
         research at leading universities abroad. These have included Lavender and Russell
         with Orr delivering sessions on policy, pedagogy and practice in Engish Further
         Education at The University of Toronto; Reid with Fink and Lomax to Lund,
         Linköping and Via Universities, focusing on Childhood, digital literacy, participatory
         methodologies, ethics and pedagogy; Crow and Firth (both Staff PGRs) with Lomax to
         Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT), resulting in an edited collection; Miah
         with Thomas to the University of Queensland and Deakin University in Australia to
         present on education’s role in preventing violent extremism;
        International research symposia and visiting academics: Our programme with invited
         international presenters (see Section 4) is designed to include emerging researchers,
         Staff PGRs and other PGRs as participants and contributors. Less experienced
         colleagues nominate visiting academics with whom they would like to work (e.g., Purcell
         with Page), with subsequent visits funded by QR/URF;
        Public lectures by internationally-leading academics: We have staged 20 public lectures
         during the assessment period, e.g. Rollock and John in 2019/20; Hall and Jacobson in
         2018/19; Mirchandani and Standing in 2016/17; Sir Aynsley-Green and Archer,
         2015/16). This has included 9 inaugural lectures by our own professoriate (Fisher;
         Harris; Lomax; MacDonald; Miller; Orr; Sanderson; Simmons; Thomas);
        Funded Writing Sabbaticals: During 2017/18 and 2018/19, funded through QR/URF, all
         non-professorial post-doctoral staff were offered five week writing sabbaticals with full
         teaching cover, to develop and submit an agreed output. This led to 12 post-doctoral
         staff sabbaticals during 2017/18 and a further 7 sabbaticals in 2018/19 together
         producing 22 published outputs and 4 conference proceedings papers;
        Funded writing programme: Throughout 2016,10 staff (6 female and 4 male) participated
         in a series of writing workshops, funded by QR/URF and run by Professor Pat Thomson
         (University of Nottingham), to develop an output, leading to 5 published journal articles
         and 2 chapters in edited books, and Staff PGR progress. This has informed our
         Supported Writing Programme.

 All Unit staff attend regular seminars and research meetings. HudCRES runs workshops to
 support researcher development and Research Development staff support colleagues in
 maximising their research profiles and developing their on-line research profiles. All staff
 contribute to the ‘Ed Space’ blog. Our International Collaboration strategy (Section 4) has
 focussed on involving emerging researchers and Staff PGRs. A team-based approach to
 doctoral supervision is employed to develop new supervisors and expand capacity.

 The success of our staffing and researcher development strategy has seen the Unit develop
 from a small number of researchers in RAE2008 and a limited number in REF2014 to one of
 significant research capacity, depth and reach, as demonstrated by this submission and in the


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 broader quantity of peer-reviewed research outputs published during this assessment period.
 This strategy has enabled our researchers to address national and international themes and
 priorities, from our long-standing focus on post-compulsory education and training (Avis, Colley,
 Fisher, Orr, Powell), to the prevention of extremism and broader educational concerns with
 ethnicity, racism and community cohesion (Bryan, Miah, Miller, Sanderson, Thomas, Walton),
 marginalised young people and access to education (Bailey, Bishop, MacDonald, Russell,
 Simmons, Thompson), lifelong and informal education (Allatt, H. Jones, Purcell, Tett) and
 child and student experiences and pedagogical practice (Bennett, Dyer, Fink, Harris, G.Jones,
 Jarvis, Kaneva, Lomax, Reid, Reynolds, Sheehan, Unaldi, Youde).

 Developing Postgraduate Research Students
 During this assessment period we have made 74 doctoral awards (42 PhDs; 32 EdDs), an
 almost doubling of awards made during the REF2014 period (38). The Unit has invested over
 £520,000 in non-staff PGRs to recruit PGRs both from our own outstanding graduates through
 the Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship Programme (which requires a first class UG degree for
 Master’s by Research and a Distinction in a Master’s by Research programme for PhD), and
 through scholarships for other PGRs nationally and internationally. PGRs attend University and
 School inductions. PGRs form part of a Graduate School whereby conference funding and
 access to the PGR forum and HudCRES events are available.

 PGRs have a main and co-supervisor (and a third supervisor where appropriate), at least one of
 whom has a minimum of two doctoral completions and with the main supervisor having recent
 and relevant research publications of international quality. All receive one formal supervision
 meeting per month, supported by further monthly contacts. EdD students undertake, and all PhD
 researchers are guided to participate in, a taught programme of four modules on research
 methods training, delivered by the School's leading researchers. A University Code of Practice
 for Postgraduate Research Degrees, complemented by School-specific guidelines, assures the
 quality of PGR provision; regular supervisor training sessions are run by the University for
 experienced and new supervisors; and the School runs a PGCert in HE where each student is
 allocated a research mentor. PGR progress and key milestones are recorded in electronic
 supervision logs, online records held at the Institution and Unit level and personal development
 plans, and are monitored by the supervisory team, the School's Director of Graduate Education
 (DGE) (H. Jones) and Deputy DGE (Lavender), and its Research and Enterprise Committee
 and Research Integrity and Ethics sub-committee, as well as the University’s Research and
 Enterprise Directorate. PGR Progression Review meetings between the Graduate School and
 SEPD are held three times a year and have been vital to our excellent record of PGRs
 progression and completion. The ‘PGR Exchange’ programme provides invited speakers to
 discuss key PGR issues via the Conference Presentation Fund (funding to support attendance
 at one home and one international conference), first having presented at a School or University
 Conference. PGRs regularly present papers at the School's Annual Research Conference and
 the University’s Annual Research Festival. All full-time PGRs have opportunities to teach their
 subject specialisms.

 Management of PGR progress and completion is rigorous; Annual Progress Review Viva’s are
 undertaken by two non-supervisory reviewers, with amendments/re-submission required within a
 specified timeframe (and a further Viva if necessary). Staff PGRs have an External Examiner for
 each Progress Review and two Externals for their summative Viva. Mock Viva’s are held post
 submission and excellent facilities are provided (see Section 3 on infrastructure below). A
 student-led, fortnightly PGR Support Forum is supported by the DGE, Deputy DGE and two
 PGR tutors, offers a lively programme and is supported by the Postgraduate Researcher
 Environment Development Fund (PREDF) providing up to £2,000 per project for initiatives that
 benefit PGRs and have an impact on the researcher environment.




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Research Income
 Unit research and enterprise income has grown significantly, with an almost 50% income growth
 to £684,664, compared to REF2014 (£462,475). A central focus of our research strategy has
 been to grow research income, enabled by the investment in bidding support and in international
 relationship-building activity. This strategic approach has resulted in a shift from enterprise to
 research funding, with substantial growth in competitively - won income from major funders,
 such as UK research councils and non-UK funding bodies. In our REF2014 submission this was
 an aspiration, now we can demonstrate significant success. This growth has involved national
 and international research collaborations and has been significantly interdisciplinary, both within
 the institution (Miller with social policy and computing colleagues; Thomas with sociology
 colleagues) and externally (Lomax; MacDonald; Reid; Thomas).
 Support from major UK funders for interdisciplinary collaborations:
      The involvement as Co-I and Social Science lead of Lomax in ‘Modelling Landscapes for
         Resilient Pollination Services in the UK’, funded by RCUK Global Food Security
         programme, (Reading University, University of Huddersfield, Northampton University,
         Lund University, Sweden), £20,098 income of total £601,108 award, 2017-2020;
      Miller was Co-I on the ‘None in Three’ international inter-disciplinary GCRF project on
         Gender-Based Violence, funded by AHRC and ESRC, (Universities of Huddersfield and
         Liverpool John Moores), 2017-2019;
      Reid is Co-I within ‘Life-Saving Lullabies: Reducing adolescent maternal and neonatal
         deaths in Zambia’, funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council – UK Research
         and Innovation/GCRF, (with Sheffield Hallam University and St. John, Zambia),
         £37,430 income of total £129,795 award, 2020-2021;
      Thomas was Co-PI for the ‘Community Reporting Thresholds; Sharing Information with
         the Authorities Regarding Involvement in Violent Extremism Activity and Foreign Conflict’
         study, funded by the Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats (CREST)
         /ESRC (with Victoria University, Australia); £55,430 income of total £99,240 award, 2016-
         17.
 International-funded research collaborations have expanded significantly:
      Lomax has been Co-I for ‘Cyber Safe Generation: Digital education by design’ (CyGen),
         funded by Erasmus+ Cooperation for innovation and the exchange of good practices,
         (Universities of Huddersfield, Northampton, Via and Limberg), £10,539 income of total
         €266,652 award, 2016-2019;
      MacDonald is Co-I for ‘A Future of Staying? A Qualitative Longitudinal Study of the
         Everyday Life of Marginalised Youth Living in Rural Areas in Denmark’, funded by the
         Danish Research Council (VIVE – The Danish Centre for Social Science Research,
         Aalborg University, Canterbury Christ Church University), £10,000 income of total DKK
         2,783,039 award, 2020-2022;
      Simmons is Co-I for the ‘Improving Transitions, Enabling Results’, funded
         by Erasmus+, a pan-European project led by GEMS Northern Ireland, £23,412 income of
         total €387,245 award, 2019-2022;
      Thomas has won international funding from competitively-tendered, national government
         schemes to replicate and extend his ‘Community Reporting Thresholds’ research. He is
         Co-PI for ‘Community Reporting Thresholds: Sharing Information with Authorities on
         Violent Extremism – a Canadian Replication Study’, funded by Public Safety Canada,
         (Ryerson University, Canada, University of Huddersfield, and Deakin University,
         Australia), £48,500 income of total $416,000 (CAD) award, 2019-22. He is also Co-PI for
         ‘Community Reporting Thresholds: Sharing information with Authorities Concerning
         Terrorist Activity’, funded by the US Government National Institute for Justice, (University
         of California Los Angeles (UCLA), University of Illinois, University of Huddersfield, Deakin
         University of Australia), £55,000 income of total $920,854 (US) award, 2019-22.

 Success with major international funders is now extending to Staff PGRs:



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Williamson Co-I on, ‘Gendering New Narratives, Representations and Pedagogies: A
        Feminist Study of Adult Education and Exhibitory Praxis in Museums in Canada, Europe
        and the USA’, funded by the Social Sciences & Humanities Research Council, Canada
        (University of Victoria, Canada) $5000 (CAD) income of total $29,947 award, 2017-2019.

 Our research has involved co-creation and direct commissioning around educational and social
 policy and practice, demonstrating expertise, credibility and strong relationships with educational
 stakeholders and end-user communities:
      Orr was approached by the Gatsby Foundation, leading to funding as PI for ‘Subject-
         Specific Pedagogy for Teachers of Vocational Science, Engineering and Technology in
         Further Education’, £364,000 income, 2015-2018.

 At regional level, a strong relationship with Kirklees Council has seen:
      Thomas and Sanderson funded for the ‘Measuring Community Cohesion’ study, 2014-
         15, and Thomas, Miah and Purcell, funded for the ‘Prevent Education and Training
         Research Project’, 2016-2017.

 The Unit continues to attract research income from local government, civil society
 organisations, charities and educational bodies, as part of our engagement with end-users:
     Bennett funded by the Society for Research into Higher Education, 2017-18, ‘Students’
        emotional responses to feedback on their progress: beginning to understand learning
        analytics dashboards’;
     Russell funded by Wavehill Social Research via Blaenau Gwent Borough Council, acting
        as procurement lead on behalf of the Welsh European Funding Office, 2017-2021
        for, ‘Evaluating Regional Approaches to NEET Intervention Strategies in a Welsh
        context’;
     Sheehan funded by The British Council, 2015-16 for the study, ’Assessment Literacy –
        What do teachers want to know?’;
     Unaldi funded by Michigan Language Assessment, 2020-21 for, ‘Construct Validity of the
        Multiple-Text Reading Tasks in MET and ECCE’.

 Additional funding has come from Culham St Gabriel’s Trust, the Society for Educational
 Studies, the Teamworks Teaching Schools Alliance and the West Yorkshire Teaching Alliance
 (Price, Staff PGR).

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our Institutional Environment Statement identifies our high-quality environment and
 infrastructure. Central to our growth has been the appointment of the Unit’s Research Bidding
 Development Officer (McLean). This has facilitated a programme of staff workshops, led by our
 Research Development staff, supported by the ADRE/professoriate, on the process of
 successful research bidding, and individual support to develop proposals. Robust bidding
 mechanisms include prospective bidders completing a ‘scoping form’ to discuss with their line
 manager and the Bidding Development staff. Once approved by the ADRE, the bid is developed
 and a peer and ethical review proforma completed, through a process overseen by the SRIEC.
 Two senior reviewers identify ethical issues requiring modification and comment on the quality
 and robustness of the proposed methodology. For larger competitive bids, ‘pitch sessions’ are
 held to aid bidders in the clarity of their proposal. The University’s PGR Charter guarantees FT
 PGRs a fully networked desktop computer and office accommodation in a dedicated study room.
 PGRs can access hardware (laptops, audio/video recorders, transcription equipment) and
 software (SPSS and NVIVO) free of charge. The Graduate School provides language support,
 and the opportunity for all PGRs to learn another language.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 1) International collaborations: Further developing international research collaborations has
 been a key strategic aim (Section 1). HudCRES has acted as a vehicle to increase staff and
 PGR non-UK research conference attendance significantly, which has directly enabled

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international collaborations on major research studies (e.g. Thomas and Grossman, Deakin:
 CREST, 2016/17; Thomas, Grossman and Eisenman, UCLA: US Department of Justice, 2019
 and Simmons and the Northern Ireland Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders
 (NIACRO), including Youth, the European Social Fund and the Northern Ireland Assembly from
 2012-present).

 Our substantial programme of Huddersfield-based international symposia (fully funded by
 QR/URF), includes:
     Education and Working-Class Youth – reshaping the politics of inclusion (25th June 2019)
       – led by Simmons with presentations from John Smyth (Emeritus Research Professor of
       Education, Federation University Australia and Visiting Professor of Education and Social
       Justice at SEPD); Bishop, Thompson and Simpson (PGR, now Staff);
     The 21st Century Child: theories concepts and contexts (19th and 20th June 2017) – led by
       Fink with presentations from Alanen (University of Jyväskylä, Finland), Davies
       (University of Leeds), Holmes (Manchester Metropolitan University), Huijsmans
       (International Institute of Social Studies, the Netherlands), Leonard (Queen's University,
       Belfast), Lowe (Aston University), Millei (University of Tampere, Finland), Oberg (Eureka!
       The National Children's Museum, Halifax), Oswald (University of Winchester) and Wells
       (Birkbeck, University of London);
     Vocational Education and Training (VET): Race and Ethnicity (5th and 6th June 2017) –
       led by Avis with presentations from Warmington (University of Warwick), Cameron and
       Bell (Curtin University, Australia), Onsando (RMIT, Australia), Mirchandani (University of
       Toronto, Canada), Webb (Monash University, Australia), Imdorf (University of Basil,
       Switzerland) and Tran (Deakin University, Australia);
     Engaging Children and Young People: Creative Methods and Research Ethics (20th and
       21st June 2016) – led by Fink with keynotes by Sparrman (Linkoping University, Sweden)
       and Kraftl (University of Birmingham) and presentations by Parsons (University of
       Southampton); Mandrona (McGill University, Canada); Lomax, Russell and Reid;
     ‘The Future of Professions’ (13 July 2015) - led by Sanderson with presentations by
       Wheelahan (Toronto), Hopwood (University of Technology Sydney), Guile (UCL), Zukas
       (Birkbeck) and Saks (University of Suffolk), Sanderson and Fisher.
     ‘Youth, Insecurity and Education’, (16th and 17th June 2015) - led
       by Simmons and Thomas, and presentations from Carpenter (OISE Toronto, Canada),
       Mac an Ghaill (Newman University, UK), Neves (Porto, Portugal), Smyth (Federation,
       Australia) and Fink and Miah. The symposia led to a special issue of ‘International
       Studies in the Sociology of Education’ edited by Simmons and Thomas.

 The HudCRES newsletter, Twitter feed and blog have played important roles in strengthening
 international collaboration, research transparency, public engagement and an ‘open’
 environmental culture. This has had tangible results through joint publications and collaborative
 grant capture (e.g., Erasmus+ whereby Simmons is working with international colleagues to
 explore where transitions can improve in vocational learning opportunities for NEET young
 people).

 Visiting Professors – a strategy to strengthen international relations
 We have increased the number of Visiting Professors and Readers and our own visiting
 appointments. These include Smyth, Dr. Carmel G. Roofe-Bowen, The University of the West
 Indies (Jamaica), Professor Michele Grossman, Deakin University, (Australia) and Professor
 Stephen L. Jacobson, Buffalo, (USA). Contributions include public lectures, writing workshops
 for ECRs and the development of collaborative research projects. Unit scholars hold seven
 Visiting Professor or equivalent posts. These have led to keynote addresses to policy and
 practitioner audiences (in Australia, Denmark and Spain), presentations and international
 research collaboration including:
      Lomax: Visiting Professor in the Faculty of Health, Education and Society, University of
          Northampton;



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       MacDonald: Visiting Professor, Bristol University and at the Danish Centre for Youth
        Research, University of Aalborg, and Adjunct Professorship in Research at the
        Department of Sociology, Monash University, Australia (2017- present);
       Orr: Visiting Professor, Canterbury Christ Church University (2015-2018);
       Thomas: International Member of the Advisory Boards of the AVERT counter-terrorism
        research network and the CRIS - the Collaborative Centre of Excellence for Resilient
        Communities and Inclusive Societies - Multiculturalism and Youth thinktank (including the
        keynote address at the thinktank launch event, 2019), hosted at Deakin University,
        Australia.

 2) Interdisciplinary Collaborations
 Our strategy to encourage and support interdisciplinary research has led to a range of national
 and international projects that address societal and educational challenges:
       Lomax is Co-I for an interdisciplinary RCUK ‘Global Food Security’ project led by the
          University of Reading. ‘Modelling Landscapes for Resilient Pollination Services in the
          UK’ brings together STEM and non-STEM scientists to address issues of sustainable
          agriculture. Lomax leads on the development of innovative visual social science
          methods to research and communicate research outcomes to policy-makers and the
          public;
      MacDonald has worked with colleagues in the UK, Australia and Europe on
         interdisciplinary projects about young people. They include, working with Social Policy
         analysts at Bristol to investigate young adults’ social welfare (with a substantial bid to the
         ESRC under review); with Sociologists at Monash University and Australian anti-poverty
         charities to chart young people’s engagement with ‘the gig economy’; with International
         Relations experts at Durham University to examine experiences of social exclusion for
         young people in Middle East and North African countries (funded by the EU F7); with
         Education scholars at Aalborg University and Sociologists from VIVE in Copenhagen to
         study patterns of im/mobility for rural youth in Denmark (funded by the Danish Research
         Council); with sociologists at University of Bergen in symposia and publications to bring
         together life-course, intergenerational and youth transitions studies;
      Reid is developing an application to the World Health Organisation with historians and
         public health professionals (including UNICEF) and scholars (from Sheffield Hallam,
         University of Edinburgh, University of Bristol, Tampere University, National University of
         Vietnam, University of Zambia and St John Zambia);
      Thomas is Co-PI with criminologists, cultural studies and public health scholars on two
         government-funded (US and Canada) ‘Community Reporting Thresholds’ research
         studies around community-based approaches to the prevention of violent extremism.

 3) Impact and Engagement Activity with End-Users
 Section 1 identified our strong strategic focus on developing Impact within our research. This
 has been scaffolded by:
      Establishment of a Research Impact Working Group, comprising Unit academics, PGRs,
        and Institutional staff in Impact and public engagement roles to develop understanding of
        impact;
      Initiation of an Impact development programme to include two introductory sessions on
        Research Impact, a PGR session on Research Impact and a session on Public
        Engagement and evaluation;
      Development of a set of Evaluation tools to support colleagues delivering research
        events;
      Utilisation of QR funding to support Impact events with end-users and small-scale
        projects co-created with end-users in support of improved policy and practice and a time
        allowance for staff engaged in Impact activity;
      Financial support to publish articles, books and chapters via ‘open access’, to ensure our
        research is accessible to end-users, and to ensure open data compliance for externally -
        funded projects.



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our approach to Impact is reflected in our established connections with end-users (colleges,
 schools, local authorities across the north of England). We maintain a strong base in the region,
 evidenced via partnerships that typify the inter-relationship between teaching, research and end-
 user engagement. We are deeply rooted within the locality and have a long-established tradition
 of positive impact upon local education-based partners and organisations, particularly in the
 post-16 and Vocational Education Training (VET) and community sectors. Unit researchers (e.g.,
 Powell) give regular research presentations to FE College leaders, FE Network meetings and at
 the annual PCET ‘Specialist Conference’. Thomas’s longstanding research collaborations with
 Kirklees and Calderdale local authorities led to both local authorities co-designing and
 commissioning empirical research from our Unit and UOA20 (Social Work and Social Policy)
 around ethnic diversity and political extremism in economically-marginalised, mainly White
 communities, including policy and practice implications.

 Our research has been commissioned by, and sometimes co-designed with, educational end-
 users and social actors to address practice and policy challenges at both national (e.g. Orr’s
 Gatsby Foundation work; Thomas with Coventry and Durham and the Aziz Foundation in
 relation to the Prevent Duty in education) and local/regional levels (Russell funded via Wavehill;
 Simmons’ research working with Northern Ireland Care Leavers). Building for Impact has been
 implemented from the start and continues post funding. The Unit was approached by The
 Gatsby Foundation, based on previous work through our Consortium of FE colleges and the
 associated body of research (Avis, Colley, Orr, Simmons, Thompson), leading a to major
 project, led by Orr, around enhancing pedagogy in the teaching of vocational science,
 engineering and technology in Post Compulsory Education and Training and Further Education.
 Funded research has addressed other educational challenges (such as how to better
 understand NEET young people’s experiences of vocational education and training, and how the
 Prevent Duty has impacted education). Public engagement takes place through HudCRES and
 via project-specific dissemination seminars/events and media work (e.g. Thomas’s sustained
 engagement with National Counter-Terrorism Police Headquarters in support of policy use of
 findings from the CREST/ESRC ‘Community Reporting Thresholds’ study around the role of
 communities and their community educator interlocutors in preventing terrorism, leading to the
 national ‘Act Early’ campaign launched in 2020). Most recently, this has included our Covid-19
 research.

 HudCRES is underpinned by deep, long-lasting relationships with educational research users
 that span our education professional qualifications and CPD, PGR supervision (many PGRs are
 practitioners and research end-users) and our research. These relationships have also enabled
 access by Unit staff to educational research sites during funded research projects, e.g., Thomas
 and Miah’s highly-sensitive work on whether young adults will report someone close to them
 who may be becoming involved in terrorism; Miller and Timmins’s (Staff PGR) work on how
 schools would utilise interactive games and curriculum material with students around gender-
 based violence; Thomas’s work (with Coventry and Durham Universities) on how educational
 professionals in English schools and colleges understand and implement their ‘Prevent Duty’
 responsibilities. Research users have played important advisory and guidance roles in the Unit’s
 research, e.g., the Project Advisory Group for the CREST/ESRC-funded ‘Community Reporting
 Thresholds’ project. MacDonald is Co-Investigator of the proposed Young Adults and Social
 Welfare Project (Bristol, under review with ESRC); through his links with youth charities has
 helped establish a stakeholder advisory board that includes some of the UK’s leading youth-
 focused agencies, e.g., Princes Trust, NYA, CentrePoint, and NUS.

 Research communication to support Impact and public engagement has been expanded by
 redesigning the School’s research webpages and establishing a stronger social media presence,
 including: establishing the HudCRES newsletter (hard copy and electronic formats, 2-3 times a
 year); an active Twitter feed (@HudCRES) and the ‘Ed Space’ blog, e.g. Tett and Allatt’s blog
 exploring the employability skills agenda and its impact on the adult literacy curriculum. 138
 posts have been published since 2016, with one post reaching 2307 readers, including
 international reach. National media engagement includes Thomas and collaborators’ findings on
 the Prevent Duty in schools and colleges, July, 2017; Miah, Sanderson and Thomas feature

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 article about their book on multiculturalism in the region in ‘The Yorkshire Post’, June, 2020;
 MacDonald’s piece for ‘The Conversation’ on precarious employment of young adults (over
 25,000 reads and other media coverage).


 4) Contributions to the economy and society
 The Unit makes strong contributions to wider society through engagement with policy and policy-
 makers nationally and internationally, as evidenced in our Impact Case Studies, and on public
 understanding, through media and public event contributions.

 International contributions include:
      MacDonald invited to be a founder member and serve on the core committee of the
         Global Network of Policy Research on Youth Transitions. The Network brings together
         leading youth scholars and governmental and civil society organisations from the Global
         South and Global North to seek critical, research-informed analyses and interventions
         vis-à-vis young people’s education and employment transition;
      Miller is President of The Commonwealth Educational Council, directly shaping
         educational approaches in the 43 member countries;
      Thomas is a member of the Academic Advisory Group (the first one established within
         UK counter-terrorism policy making) for the UK government’s ‘Desistance and
         Disengagement Programme’ for convicted terrorists and ISIS supporters returning from
         Syria; he advises the National Counter-Terrorism Police Head Quarters; has been
         commissioned to write book chapters on educational approaches to preventing terrorism
         for educational professional and public audiences by the German Federal and Flemish
         Regional Governments; has provided policy briefings for the Attorney General’s Office of
         the Australian Federal Government and with Canadian national government ministers.
 National contributions:
      Lomax led the design of open access creative digital resources for academic and non-
         academic users (teachers, children and parents), including resources to support
         children’s emotional wellbeing during global crises; a co-designed digital education
         programme, guidance and resources to support children’s digital literacy and online
         safety (in Greek, English, Danish and Flemish);
      MacDonald was External Research Consultant (2016-18) to a Young Women’s Trust
         funded project on economic inactivity amongst young women to engage with debates
         around women, employment pathways and policy implications;
      Orr is a member of two DfE Working Groups around Vocational Education and Training;
      Simmons has given media expert commentary: ‘UTCs Give Young People the Skills to
         do the Job: Overcoming the Academic-Vocational Divide’; ‘The Changing Face of Youth
         Culture in the UK’ and ‘The Employment Guarantee Bill: Youth Unemployment Remains’
         (in October 2018) to inform end-users who engage with education and employment
         policy;
      Tett was invited in October 2019 to present oral evidence, based on her long-standing
         body of research around the benefits of lifelong learning, to the House of Commons
         Education Select Committee’s inquiry in to ‘Adult Skills and Lifelong Learning’.

 5) Indicators of Wider Influence, Contributions to and Recognition by the Research Base
 Unit members maintain a significant presence in the leadership and management of key
 education organisations, including:
       British Educational Research Association (BERA; Lomax, Miah, Reid, SIG coordinators
         in this period; Miller, Annual Conference keynote speaker, 2018);
       International Professional Development Association (IPDA; Bryan, Chair);
       Universities Council for the Education of Teachers (UCET; Bryan, Chair of the Research
         and International Forum and member of the Executive Committee);
       World Educational Research Association (WERA) (Bryan, co-convenor of the
         International Research Network (IRN) ‘Education and Extremism’);
       The Association of Teacher Education in Europe (Powell, Chair);

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Society of Education Studies (Bryan, Executive Board member).

 MacDonald has been a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (FAcSS) since 2011 and
 Miller was appointed to FAcSS in 2017. Thus, Unit staff contribute strategically to the national
 and international educational research sector.

 During this period, Unit staff have played key roles in and served on the editorial boards of
 leading journals in the fields of education, childhood and youth studies and research
 methodology. From 2017 onwards, MacDonald has been Co-Editor in Chief of the Journal of
 Youth Studies, the leading international journal in the field of youth studies (Impact factor (IF)
 1.69). Bennett is Editor of Research in Learning Technology (IF 1.75); Harris is Associate Editor
 for English in Education (IF 0.45); Miller is Associate Editor for International Studies in
 Educational Administration. Orr is Associate Editor of the Journal of Vocational Education and
 Training (IF 1.10) and was Co-Editor of Studies in the Education of Adults. Simmons is
 Associate Editor of the Journal of Further and Higher Education (IF 1.57).
 Simmons and Thomas edited a special issue of the International Studies in the Sociology of
 Education (IF 0.570).

 Editorial Boards served on include British Journal of Educational Studies (Bryan) (IF
 1.05); Sociological Research Online (Lomax); Journal of Social Inclusion (Miah); Ethnography
 and Education Journal (Russell); Profile (Sheehan); European Journal for research on the
 education and learning of adults (Tett); Journal of Innovative Practice in Higher
 Education (Youde), Journal of Vocational Education and Training (Avis, Harris, Sanderson).

 Reviewing of journals: staff have reviewed for over 50 journals in education-related fields
 including:
      Core educational journals: International Studies in the Sociology of Education, British
         Educational Review Journal, British Journal of Sociology of Education, Oxford Review of
         Education, British Journal of Educational Studies.
      Broader childhood and youth journals: YOUNG, Children and Society, Children’s
         Geographies, Journal of Youth Studies.
      Methodological journals: Journal of Contemporary Ethnography Journal of Ethnography
         and Education; Visual Studies, International Journal of Research and Method in
         Education.
      Wider disciplinary journals: Ethnicities; Critical Studies on Terrorism; Community
         Development, The British Medical Journal, BMC Women’s Health.

 Reviewing for book publishers: staff have for: Emerald Press, Springer, Open University Press,
 E&E Publishing, Trentham Books, Routledge, Bloomsbury Academic, Edward Elgar, Palgrave
 MacMillan, Policy Press, Peter Lang, Sage and Lexington Books.

 Reviewing for funding bodies: Nuffield Foundation, The Leverhulme Trust, British Academy,
 CONICYT (The Ministry of Education, Chile), ESRC, Swiss National Science Foundation, Israel
 Science Foundation, NIHR, and the Academy of Medical Sciences’ Springboard: Health of the
 Public 2040, University of Luxembourg ‘Research Project Call’, Canadian Social Science and
 Humanities Research Council.

 PhD and EdD examining: external examination at international institutions includes: Australian
 Catholic University, RMIT, Aarhus University, Massey, British University (Dubai) and University
 of Aalborg; and at over 25 UK based institutions, including Institute of Education/UCL,
 Universities of Durham, Oxford, Wolverhampton, London, Warwick, Bristol, Canterbury Christ
 Church, Southampton, Manchester, Exeter, Liverpool, Glasgow, Surrey, Cardiff, and Queen’s,
 Belfast.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Invited lectures and keynotes (at leading academic and government institutions nationally and
 internationally):
      Bryan - World Educational Research Association (WERA) keynote, EARLI / InZentIM
         conference, University of Duissberg-Essen, 2018;
      Lomax - Sociological Research Association Summer Event in London (2019) and RMIT,
         Melbourne (2019) as part of the Association Visual Pedagogies 4th international
         conference and University of Linköping (2018), Lund University, (2017), University of
         Girona, (2017);
      MacDonald has given 49 invited lectures and presentations since 2014 in the UK and
         internationally. Appointed to the prestigious Benjamin Meaker Visiting Professorship,
         School of Policy Studies, Bristol University (2018- present). Visiting Fellow within the
         School of Sociology and Social Policy, University of Nottingham. Was Visiting Guest
         Professor, Vienna University of Economics and Business (December 2015) which led to
         key-note in EU symposium (2018). Invited to two expert symposia, University of Bergen
         (2015, 2017) resulting in a major new text (2018). With colleagues at the University of
         Durham, MacDonald collaborated in an international comparative research programme
         giving keynote addresses at symposia in Rabat (2016) and in Rome (2018), and
         contributing to a special issue of Mediterranean Politics;
      Miller was Keynote speaker at the BERA Annual Conference, 2018;
      Russell was invited to conduct her HudCRES workshop at the Oxford Ethnography and
         Education Conference in 2018 and invited keynote 2016;
      Simmons delivered keynote lectures at Liverpool, (2019), TELL Network, University of
         Bolton, (2018) at Aalborg University, Copenhagen (2017) and CEFU Conference,
         Copenhagen, (2017); Senate House, University of London (2017), Erasmus Strategic
         Partnership for Vocational Education and Training Conference, Wood Quay, Dublin,
         (2017), Alumni Conference, York College, (2016) and was invited discussant at SKOPE
         Conference on Understanding VET in England and Germany: insights from the
         perspectives of policy making and governance, Department of Education, Oxford, (2016)
         and keynote lecture;
      Thomas has given invited presentations at the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (to
         representatives of EU governments), 2018; and at University of Frankfurt (Germany);
         2015, University of Queensland (Australia), 2017; the Flemish Regional Parliament,
         2017; University of California, Santa Barbara (US), 2018; and Aarhaus University
         (Denmark), 2019.

 Unit staff have organised major international conferences during this period:
      Bryan, IPDA chair, oversaw organisation of the 2020 Annual Conference with
         attendance from 14 countries;
      Lomax has been convenor for British Sociological Association Visual Sociology Study
         Group, Bluecoat Museum & University of Liverpool, (2019);
      MacDonald co-organised the 2015 Journal of Youth Studies International Conference
         (300 participants from over 40 countries);
      Miller organised the International Conference on Educational Leadership and
         Management, Jamaica (2015, 2017, 2019);
      Russell organised the Oxford Ethnography and Education Conference (with over 50%
         international scholars) from 2014-present and acted as Chair since 2017;
      The Journal of Vocational Education and Training (JVET) has a strong history and
         foundation set within the Unit and has convened 3 JVET conferences (organised by
         Sanderson) during this assessment period (2015, 2017, 2019).

 Future Strategy
 Our forward strategy builds on sustaining the long-term Unit research strategy and vitality,
 strengths and distinctive features outlined in this submission, which will strengthen our emerging
 research collaborations. We will continue to build on our tradition of practitioner and end-user
 engaged critical educational policy analysis, as exemplified by our Impact case studies, to
 influence local, national and international educational and social policy agendas. This will be

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 done through further development of our international, inter-disciplinary research collaborations,
 enabled by high-quality research development infrastructure and by the international
 relationship-building mechanisms we have established within our Unit. This strategy of continued
 growth in the scale and international quality of our Unit’s research will be achieved through four
 key approaches:

       Our highly-successful on-line research seminars developed during the Covid crisis, have
        proved accessible to both international partners and domestic end-users, with our March
        2021 seminar ‘Beyond the headlines: Children, young people and families during Covid-
        19’ attracting over 250 participants, including international academics. These seminars
        are the template for our future high-profile and internationally-focused, online seminar
        programme;
       We will further develop our portfolio of high-quality, inter-disciplinary research
        collaborations, such as through ‘The Social Welfare of Young Adults in England’ ESRC
        research proposal (with University of Bristol, c. £1m, pending) and the ‘Mapping the
        provision of NEET early interventions in England’ Leverhulme Trust proposal (c.
        £450,000, pending);
       Our research Impact will continue to grow through responsive, high-quality applied
        research, with the new ‘HudCRES Policy Briefs’ developed in early 2021 around
        Preventing extremism through education and the educational impacts of the Covid-19
        crisis providing a model and vehicle for enhanced Unit policy engagement, such as
        through Select Committee evidence submissions;
       HudCRES will further develop its distinct, constituent research groups around our
        existing and emerging research specialisms: PCET/VET, marginalised youth and
        educational access, preventing extremism and wider issues of racial inequality, and
        childhood and pedagogy.

 Based on this research strategy, we aim to achieve further, substantial growth in the scale and
 international quality of our Unit’s research and submission. Our REF2028 aim is to achieve a
 further growth of more than 50% in submitted staff where at least 65/70% of SEPD staff are
 submitted. We will also sustain and further develop our strategy to support more world-leading
 research collaborations and resulting outputs, with the expectation of a further, substantial
 growth in the proportion of work graded 3* and 4* and in the volume of our externally-funded
 international research collaborations.




                                                                                           Page 16
