Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment: Unit of assessment: Computer Science and Informatics - 11

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Strategic Goals
 Computer science research at Oxford Brookes comprises a dynamic group of researchers whose
 work combines academic excellence with innovative practice based scholarship providing a pathway
 to impact. Part of a successful and ambitious modern university, our researchers are at the cutting
 edge of new developments and have a distinctive profile in artificial intelligence (AI) and software
 engineering.    These developments are being applied in key areas such as healthcare,
 telecommunications and digital technology for learning. This is strongly reflected in the impact case
 studies (ICS) submitted for this REF.

 The UoA has developed an inclusive research atmosphere with the aim of maximising the number
 of staff actively engaged in research. Research directly informs teaching, in particular in the areas
 of artificial intelligence, machine learning, robotics and software engineering.

 Over the period 2014-2020, the school has continued the development of our two research centres;
 the Dependable Systems Engineering Research Centre (DSERC) and the Intelligent Systems
 Engineering Research Centre (ISERC) – (see Section 1.2) which foster collaboration and nurture
 engagement with the public and other institutions, and support the achievement of impact. In
 addition, we recently established the Institute for Ethical AI (IEAI). This is a virtual centre which
 works with both of the above research centres and others across the university. All research-active
 staff work with at least one group within these centres, developing their own research pathways with
 the support of colleagues who share similar interests. Our regular research seminar series, which
 disseminates progress to all researchers in the School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics
 (ECM), as well as regular group meetings, have fostered a rich, interdisciplinary environment in
 which research flourishes.

 Research and impact generated within these centres has been strengthened by staff success in the
 university’s annual Research Excellence Awards competition, as well as Faculty Impact Acceleration
 funding schemes (see Section 1.4). The school research budget provides scholarships for research
 students, and targeted funding for distinct activities and events related to each centre.
 Interdisciplinary research between the research centres and the wider intellectual communities of
 the faculty and university is advanced through a range of collaborative projects (see Section 1.5).

 The number of staff returned has increased from 13 FTE in 2014 to 17.3 FTE in 2020. This FTE
 value represents 75% of eligible computer science staff. The external research spend has increased
 from c.£1,000,000 in REF2014 to c.£2,350,000 over the period of REF2021. These figures show
 that the UoA is growing and improving its research capability.

 1.2 Research Centres
 The work in each Research Centre is formed into groups that address specific areas of research
 and which are led by an experienced researcher. 11 FTE carry out research within DSERC and 6.3
 FTE work within ISERC.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DSERC is led by Harrison and the centre comprises three groups. The Cloud Computing and
 Cybersecurity (CCC) group headed by Zhu has been working on the key area of software testing.
 Zhu and Bayley have developed a new method for testing AI applications, Datamorphic Testing: A
 Method for Testing Intelligent Applications (Zhu et al, 2019). Bayley and Zhu have investigated
 how to ensure that third-party software services that are dynamically discovered and composed are
 semantically correct, Monic Testing of Web Services Based on Algebraic Specifications, (Bayley et
 al, 2016). Design patterns provide reusable software solutions and are widely used in software
 development. Zhu and Bayley have been studying how a developer can prove that an application
 of a pattern is valid, On The Composability of Design Patterns (Zhu and Bayley 2015). Security is a
 newly established area of research being led by new cyber security lecturers Kamarudin and
 Dehghanniri, who have expertise in malware and the social impact of cybercrime. Initial work is
 focussed on a security framework for autonomous vehicles.

 Harrison leads the Applied Software Engineering and Data Analytics (ASEDA) group in DSERC.
 Harrison’s work on software engineering has applied a paradigm known as ‘learning from crowds’
 to classify software engineering defects with non-expert knowledge, Learning to classify software
 defects from crowds: a novel approach (Harrison et al, 2018). Martin and Harrison have developed
 case based reasoning techniques which have been applied to a patient-controlled diabetes
 management system, Temporal Case-based Reasoning for Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Bolus Insulin
 Decision Support (Martin et al, 2018). Aldea and Younas have shown how to use semantic similarity
 and ontology mapping to automate regulatory compliance management, Automating the Semantic
 Mapping between Regulatory Guidelines and Organizational Processes (Sapkota, Aldea et al,
 2016). In the area of data analytics, Younas has been investigating the application of NoSQL
 databases for the analysis of London bus service data, Testing of Transactional Services in NoSQL
 Key-Value Databases (Younas et al, 2018). Basu has developed a software tool for selection of
 cloud services based on quality of service, Modelling and Simulation of QoS-Aware Service
 Selection in Cloud Computing (Basu et al, 2020) and Younas has developed a software tool for
 detecting malware, CloudIntell: An intelligent malware detection system (Younas et al, 2018).

 Jabir leads the third group in DSERC which is the Advanced Reliable Computer Systems
 (ARCoS) group. This group has a long history of developing resilient VLSI circuit designs and during
 this REF period has designed and patented a concurrent error detection and correction system
 electronic hardware, A Low-Complexity Multiple Error Correcting Architecture Using Novel Cross
 Parity Codes Over GF (2^m) (Jabir et al, 2015), The main thrust of the work is now on memristor
 logic designs including resilient cross bar architectures and memristor sensor arrays, Efficient
 sensing approaches for high-density memristor sensor array (Jabir et al, 2018). The group received
 the best paper award at the IEEE IOLTS’2016 conference for the paper Novel Memristive Logic
 Architectures and the work has resulted in the filing of 8 patents.

 Crook (2014-18) and Ball (2018-2020) lead ISERC. There are four groups which address different
 types of intelligent systems but which have a common objective to analyse and process data to
 improve system performance. The Visual AI Lab (VAIL) is led by Cuzzolin and is world-leading in
 the field of deep learning for action detection in videos, Deep learning for detecting multiple space-
 time action tubes in videos, (Cuzzolin, 2016), autonomous driving, and AI for healthcare, with a
 strong momentum in the direction of frontier topics such as AI and neuroscience, human-centric AI
 and machine, as evidenced by the best detection accuracies to date, and the first system able to
 localise multiple events in real time, Online real-time multiple spatiotemporal action localisation and
 prediction (Cuzzolin et al 2017).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The AI and Robotics (AIR) group is led by Olde Scheper. The group carries out research into
 Social Robotics, Human Robot Interaction, Human Computer Interaction, AI & Machine Learning
 and Bio-inspired Computing, Biologically Inspired Rate Control of Chaos (Olde Scheper, 2017).
 Collaborations with clinicians and experimentalists have provided the opportunity to investigate
 applications of AI, Human Computer Interface, and data analysis in health and human robot
 interactions.

 The Performance Augmentation Lab (PAL) led by Wild was established in 2016 to focus on
 Augmented Reality and Wearable Technologies. The aim is to embed information directly into
 experience, developing novel and powerful forms of real-time feedback on performance. Wild’s
 expertise in this field resulted in him being appointed as the co-ordinator for work on an international
 standard on Augmented Reality Learning Experience Model (IEEE standard P1589/Draft 3). In 2020,
 the resources in this group transferred to the Open University following Wild’s award of a Chair in
 Technology Enhanced Learning.

 The Communications, Media and Telecommunications (CMT) research group led by Ball and
 including Ou and Sengul has focussed on intelligent mobile wireless systems, including
 communication between vehicles and infrastructure, Multiple Interface Scheduling System for
 Heterogeneous Wireless Vehicular Network, (Ball, 2017), improving the performance of radio
 access networks, Dynamic Resource Scheduling in Mobile Edge Cloud with Cloud Radio Access
 Network (Ou 2018) and the optimisation of parameters for cellular radio, Self-optimization of
 coverage and capacity based on a fuzzy neural network with cooperative reinforcement learning
 (Sengul 2014). This group was closed in 2019 as the staff moved to new areas of research in the
 VAIL and CCC groups.

 The Institute for Ethical Artificial Intelligence (IEAI) forms part of Oxford Brookes’ response to
 the UK Industrial Strategy. It was established by the co-director Crook and formally launched in
 February 2020. The IEAI was founded and is being led by staff being returned to UoA11; it is,
 however, a university-wide initiative that involves staff from across many disciplines, including
 social science, business, health and life sciences. The mission of the IEAI is to promote the ethical
 development and deployment of AI technologies, with a particular focus on trustworthy AI solutions
 for business and society. The Institute is creating a number of new income streams with the aim of
 becoming financially sustainable. External funding of c.£1,250,000 was won by the institute from
 the Research England Development Fund. Initially the institute has been working in specific
 business sectors (HR and Law), to establish pay-for-membership consortiums.

 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy
 The overarching objective for the unit during the assessment period has been to deliver the highest
 possible outcomes in research and impact in the areas represented by our two research centres.
 The key objectives identified in REF2014 have been substantially delivered due to the strategy and
 support structures identified below. These objectives were as follows:

    ●   Develop a research community with the capability of addressing increasingly complex global
        challenges.
    ●   Make strategic new appointments to strengthen research capacity
    ●   Increase external funding

 The objective to develop a research community capable of addressing global challenges has been
 achieved through the close coordination of the group activities, in particular in the areas of AI
 technologies and software testing, case based reasoning, data analytics and performance

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 augmented learning. This has enabled our teams to successfully lead and partner on several major
 Horizon 2020 projects. These projects are related to the global themes of healthcare (Martin,
 PEPPER project and Cuzzolin, SARAS project) and advanced teaching and learning (Wild, WEKIT
 and ARLEM). The expertise in AI technology and big data has also enabled Cuzzolin and Younas
 to actively participate in the university’s new Research, Innovation and Knowledge Exchange (RIKE)
 networks (see IES and Section 1.5). In addition, the expertise in AI, for example Rolf and Cuzzolin
 (AI algorithms) and Zhu (AI testing), has contributed to the establishment of the new IEAI by Crook.
 These areas of expertise have also generated impact and this is reflected in the Impact Case Studies
 (ICS) on Human Performance Augmentation and Artificial Intelligence for Saliency Detection and
 Action Recognition (see Section 1.4).

 While the core research staff that were returned in REF2014 have all been retained, we have fulfilled
 the objective to make new strategic appointments to strengthen our research capability. Rolf joined
 in 2016 and has made a significant contribution to successful bids for funding through KTPs with
 Blenheim Palace and the law firm Moorcroft. Rast joined in early 2020 and is an expert with many
 years of research experience in AI. He is now leading the teaching on our AI programmes and is
 actively involved in applying his knowledge of AI and computer vision to research into autonomous
 vehicles, which is a major cross-ECM project; Pillai (2016-2018), Dehghanniri and Kamarudin
 were appointed to support our new UG and PGT programmes on computer science for
 cybersecurity, which has been certified by the National Cyber Security Centre and their roles also
 include the establishment of a new research area in cybersecurity. Rast, Dehghanniri and
 Kamarudin have been returned as an Early Career Researchers (ECR).

 Our objective to increase external funding has been very successful and overall the external funding
 has increased by 235% as described in Section 3.1.

 Moving forward into the next five years, we will sustain and further develop our rich research and
 impact culture. Our main aims are as follows:

    ●   To enhance pathways to impact by identifying opportunities for impact at an early stage and
        fostering them through to a successful outcome.
    ●   Further develop inter-disciplinary research across the School, between Faculties with other
        universities and with industry.
    ●   Increase the number of applications for external funding to sustain and expand the research
        in line with the university strategy as described in the IES.
    ●   To increase our flourishing community of postgraduate researchers through the continuation
        of faculty-funded PhD bursaries and by seeking external or collaborative funding.
    ●   To enhance the careers of early researchers through the university’s continuing commitment
        to supporting research and impact as integral parts of academic duties.

 1.4 Impact Support and Development
 Support for impact is delivered through the Faculty Impact Lead (Gupta), underpinned by the
 university’s Research Impact Steering Group and Research Impact Officers. Together the impact
 team offers dedicated sessions on planning, delivering and recording impact activity, working in
 partnership with the university’s Research and Business Development Office. Within the school, the
 research centre leads, in collaboration with the group leaders, monitor research work and identify
 and support activities that can enhance impact. Additional support is provided through mentoring
 by the unit’s ‘Impact Champions’ whose work forms the basis of our submitted ICSs.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A regular programme of faculty and departmental events explores the opportunities and benefits of
 impact and is open to colleagues at all career stages. Impact is firmly embedded into the annual
 Personal Research Planning (PRP) process in which all research staff participate and impact is
 considered in workload allocations as well as applications for promotion.

 Under the umbrella of the above support schemes, projects are monitored and supported to
 maximise impact. The university Impact Tracker database is used to record evidence of impact as
 it occurs during a project. Examples include the work by Olde Scheper, Aldea and Martin on the
 application of ‘Rate Control of Chaos’ analysis for identifying medical conditions. Trials have been
 carried out in a hospital in Mexico and the work was awarded Impact Acceleration funding from the
 Faculty which allowed the team to organise a focus group of medical and technical stakeholders to
 disseminate the findings of the research.

 The work on predictive personalised decision support for diabetes management by Martin and
 Harrison was also identified as having potential for impact (more details provided in Section 4.2).
 The Faculty awarded Impact Acceleration funding to this project which enabled a video to be
 produced to increase the dissemination of the work. Project videos have received well over 7500
 views between them: (tinyurl.com/pepperh2018 and tinyurl.com/pepper2020). Trials of the monitor
 have now been completed and have shown that the system could be extremely beneficial to people
 managing diabetes.

 Through the Horizon 2020 WEKIT project, Wild has developed a technology platform using
 augmented reality for producing 3D augmented reality training content enabled by smart wearables.
 The project validated the methodology and technology in pilot test-beds in aviation, space
 engineering and medicine. Wild was awarded Impact Acceleration funding by the Faculty to deliver
 training on the use of performance augmented learning to local schools and colleges to broaden the
 awareness of the opportunities offered by this technology. Important impact resulting from this work
 is the first standard on performance augmented learning produced by the IEEE sub-committee
 chaired by Wild (see Section 4.1).

 Cuzzolin has developed an international reputation for his group’s work on computer vision and
 action recognition. The impact from this work is starting to emerge and is likely to grow significantly
 over the next few years. Earlier work under Torr (now UoO) on saliency detection was further
 developed by Huawei and deployed on their mobile phones for processing images for their ‘selfie’
 feature. More recently Cuzzolin has been working with Huawei and his consultancy has led to the
 development of action recognition algorithms that have been selected for deployment in the next
 generation of Huawei mobile phones. In addition, Cuzzolin has a successful KTP with Createc
 whose business includes the development of a tool for analysing football players. Cuzzolin’s action
 recognition technology is able to monitor players’ behaviour on football pitches, such as how they
 land from a jump and how they kick a ball, which will have impact in terms of player performance
 and analysing causes of injury. This KTP work has facilitated connections with three Premier League
 clubs and funding for development has been received from one of these clubs.

 The work of Wild (Human Performance Augmentation) and Cuzzolin (Artificial Intelligence for
 saliency detection and action recognition) were selected for the ICS for REF2021.

 There are promising indications that all the above projects will produce significant impact over the
 next REF period and they will continue to be monitored and supported together with emerging new
 projects. The procedure for identifying key areas of research and monitoring the progress towards

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact has been very effective in terms of keeping impact as one of the strategic targets for the
 research. It is therefore planned to continue this approach into the next REF period.

 1.5 Interdisciplinary Research
 Research staff are supported in engaging with researchers from other disciplines. Over the last few
 years there have been a number of very successful collaborations, with publications expected in due
 course. Examples include:

 Olde Scheper (Computing with UoA3) was awarded a faculty funded PhD student scholarship as a
 result of a faculty initiative to develop interdisciplinary collaboration. This collaboration is with Dawes
 (UoA3, Faculty of Health & Life Sciences [HLS]) and Dr Karl Morten, Nuffield Department of
 Women’s and Reproductive Health, Oxford University [UoO]) and studies Criticality Gait Analysis.
 Dawes’ group is providing data for the analysis and joint publications are planned in future. Aldea
 and Olde Scheper (Computing with UoA3) were awarded a Newton Institutional Link grant for the
 CArDIGAN (Criticality Analysis of Diabetic Gait in Children) project. This is a multidisciplinary project
 in collaboration with Dawes (UoA3, HLS) and a children’s hospital in Mexico (Obesity Clinic, Hospital
 Infantil de Mexico Federico Guzman). Martin (Computing and Medicine) was awarded Global
 Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) funding from Innovate UK for the project Abledoc (Avatar-Based
 Learning for Diabetes Optimal Control) project. This project is in collaboration with Cognitant and
 Hospital Universitario San Ignacio (Colombia). A joint publication between the collaborators is in
 preparation. Olde Scheper (Computing and Engineering) received a university central fund award
 to work on applying rate control of chaos to the control of petrol engines.

 Martin (Computing and Health/Medicine) is the PI for the Horizon 2020 project PEPPER in which
 the project partners are: Imperial College London, University de Girona, Girona Biomedical
 Research Institute – Hospital Dr Josep Trueta, RomSoft SRL and Cellnovo Ltd. The project uses
 case-based reasoning as the basis of the diabetes management system. A publication from this
 collaboration has been returned, A Modular Safety System for an Insulin Dose Recommender: a
 Feasibility Study; more details are given in section 4.2. Martin (Computing and Health/Medicine)
 was awarded GCRF funding from the Royal Academy of Medical Sciences for the project
 COORDINATES: (Cloud-Based Tool for diabetes management and research in Colombia). The
 project partners are Hospital Universitario San Ignacio (Colombia), Universidad Antonio Narino,
 Imperial College. The project explored the feasibility of a cloud-based platform for diabetes
 management.

 Wild (Computing with Arts) has explored the application of augmented reality with a number of
 different disciplines including most notably design sciences (Schools of Art, Built Environment and
 Architecture) and HLS (Medical sciences, Nursing, Psychology, Sports).

 Interdisciplinary research is also carried out through the university’s new RIKE networks (see IES).
 Cuzzolin is contributing his expertise in AI to the Health Ageing & Care network. Younas is a co-
 lead of the Refugees and Migration network, where he is applying his knowledge of big data to the
 information analysed by this network. Crook has established the IEAI, which is addressing AI in a
 business context (Computing with HR/Law); see also Section 1.2.

 1.6 Open research environment and ethics
 This UoA has gone beyond the requirements: almost all outputs over the period have been made
 open access (OA) on Oxford Brookes’ institutional repository RADAR through either the Green or
 Gold routes to OA. The UoA encourages all researchers to make their work available through

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publically accessible websites. Over the last 6 years the research work which forms the basis of the
 ICS has been carried out by Cuzzolin’s Visual AI lab and Wild’s Performance Augmentation Lab.
 Each      of    these    labs     has     its    own      website     for   sharing    information:
 https://cms.brookes.ac.uk/staff/FabioCuzzolin/ and https://pal.cct.brookes.ac.uk/ respectively.

 The two largest projects in the UoA also both have a website describing the progress of the research
 work. Information on the PEPPER project, managed by the project PI Martin, can be accessed at
 (http://www.pepper.eu.com/). Information on the Horizon 2020 project SARAS, for which Cuzzolin
 is a co-partner, is publically available through the project website (https://saras-project.eu/).

 Staff make open datasets for non-confidential data generated in research projects. For example,
 Ball has made the data generated in tests carried out in Guildford, UK to measure roadside parking
 spaces     with     a    mobile   sensing    system      available    as    an    Open     Dataset
 (DOI: https://doi.org/10.24384/dkha-9n48) and the dataset for Harrison’s paper, Learning to classify
 software defects from crowd has been published and will allow other researchers to develop medical
 diagnostic decision-making tools.

 The research integrity of the unit is overseen by the University’s Research Ethics Committee whose
 membership brings cross-faculty researchers (staff and students) together members external to the
 University. The faculty has a dedicated Ethics Officer responsible for reviewing projects and liaising
 with appropriate university committees. Good practice concerning data protection, privacy, and the
 involvement of human participants is shared among staff through a Research Committee where
 applications for ethical approval are shared and discussed.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy, Support and Development
 The unit’s research activities are overseen by a Research Lead (RL, Ball) who has overall
 responsibility for strategy and management, working closely with the Postgraduate Tutor (PGRT,
 Olde Scheper) and the Research Centre Leaders to ensure effective liaison with the postgraduate
 community. Ball and Olde Scheper represent the staff on the Faculty RKE Committee, chaired by
 the Associate Dean (AD) RKE. All researchers complete a Personal Research Plan (PRP) every
 May, in consultation with the RL. This enables staff to identify research goals in keeping with their
 career stage and the unit’s strategic priorities and to identify how their research impact could be
 enhanced. PRPs are considered by the RL, Head of Department and Faculty ADRKE, and feedback
 is provided to guide each researcher. The amount of time allocated to staff for research is determined
 in accordance with the university’s workload planning framework. At every stage, EDI issues are
 taken flexibly into account.

 The UoA provides support for ECRs by providing a mentor (e.g. Olde Scheper for Kamarudin and
 Dehghanniri, and Rolf and Cuzzolin for Rast) for both teaching and research. The researchers
 are also encouraged to work with teams within the Research Centres. ECRs are also guided through
 the ‘Your First Three Years’ scheme as described in the IES. This provides training and guidance
 for early career researchers to establish a research career. ECRs are also allocated time to develop
 their research as part of the workload planning process coordinated by the Head of School.

 There are a range of opportunities for both ECR and mid-career researchers to bid for internal
 funding to support their research. Examples of the schemes that have been available and where
 they have been used over the period 2014-2020 are shown below.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   University ‘Next 10 Awards’ - Cuzzolin received this award from the university in 2014 which
        provided a scholarship for a PhD student with a value of £60,000. The resultant project
        produced excellent work on action recognition which has been a key factor in stimulating the
        growth of Cuzzolin’s research activities over the last 5 years.
    ●   Central Research Funds (CRF) – Bayley and Zhu received an award of £20,000 to work on
        Cloud computing and Big Data which has led to further work on cloud-based software.
    ●   CRF Research Excellence awards - Ball received an award of £20,000 to complete research
        publications resulting from a PhD project on heterogeneous wireless communications and
        mobile sensing.
    ●   CRF 150th Anniversary studentship awards - Olde Scheper was awarded £60,000 for a PhD
        studentship on ‘Criticality control of insulin release’. Martin received an award of £60,000
        for a studentship to work on case based reasoning.
    ●   Faculty funded PhD studentships – Olde Scheper was awarded a PhD studentship on
        Criticality Gait Analysis (£90,000) and Zhu and Bayley were awarded a £90,000 studentship
        on AI Software testing.
    ●   School awarded PhD studentships – These are used to stimulate new areas of research and
        particularly for ECRs. Bayley, Kamarudin and Dehghanniri were awarded £60,000 for a
        PhD studentship on cybersecurity, Cuzzolin and Bradley were awarded a £90,000 PhD
        studentship on autonomous technologies, Rolf was awarded a £60,000 studentship on deep
        reinforcement learning based on temporal goals.
    ●   HEIF funding - Olde Scheper was successful in applying for £185,000 to work on bio-
        inspired rate control of chaos. This project has resulted in a patent being granted in the EU,
        US and Japan.

 Faculty funding is also available to support staff in realising impact as described in Section 1.4. In
 addition, a budget of £20,000 is made available to the research centres for research expenses such
 as travel to collaborators and conference attendance, which all staff can apply for. This provides an
 opportunity for staff to present their work and facilitates networking.

 The recruitment of new staff is described in Section 1.3. There have been three academic staff
 promotions over the last 6 years. Crook was promoted to Professor in recognition of his leadership
 role within the university; Cuzzolin has been promoted from Reader to Professor in recognition of
 his outstanding research, including world leading work on action recognition; Younas was promoted
 from Senior Lecturer to Reader in recognition of his contribution to teaching and his research on
 data analytics, web and cloud-based systems and services and his collaborations with co-workers
 around the world.

 Succession planning is facilitated through the structure of the Research Centres and their constituent
 groups. When staff have established an area of research, a new group can be formed e.g. Cuzzolin
 - VAIL, Wild - PAL. When a group leader is promoted, a member of the group is able to progress
 to group leader e.g. Olde Scheper – AIR, taking over from Crook.

 Over the assessment period, the UoA has had 10 PDRAs funded by the Horizon 2020 project
 SARAS, the Horizon 2020 PEPPER project and the Leverhulme Trust projects on Machine Theory
 of Mind and Self-Repairable Memristive Gas Sensor Arrays. There has been one Research Fellows
 (RF) funded by the Faculty (2019). Of the 11 post-doctoral positions, 2 are women reflecting the
 national percentage of women in computer science, and 6 are from a BAME background. We are
 making a concerted and co-ordinated effort to address the gender and ethnicity balance through our
 involvement in the Athena Swan and Race Equality charters. The Faculty to which UoA11 belongs
 has Athena Swan Bronze, which will be submitted for renewal in 2021.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RFs and PDRAs play an important role in the UoA research; they bring experience from previous
 posts and play a key role in the successful delivery of the projects. For example, Cirstea, employed
 under the Leverhulme Trust project on Machine Theory of Mind, came with a very strong background
 in reinforcement learning and inverse reinforcement learning that made him a very valuable addition
 to the team. Skarga-Bandurova is working on the EU funded SARAS project; she is an experienced
 researcher who was head of department in her previous university and has greatly helped with the
 management of the project. Within the UoA, PDRAs and RFs contribute to seminars, which are
 given on a bi-weekly basis throughout each semester and to research group discussions. They are
 also given the opportunity to do some teaching, which can be beneficial to the development of their
 academic careers. Of the PDRAs that have reached the end of their contracts, one has moved to be
 a PDRA at UoO, one has joined Trip Advisor as a Senior Software Engineer and one has taken a
 software position in the USA.

 2.2 Links with Industry
 Several good connections with industry have been established through KTP projects. Cuzzolin
 (Metavision, Createc), Ball and Ou (Clearview Traffic), Rolf and Olde Scheper (National Heritage,
 Blenheim Estate), Crook and Rolf (Moorcrofts LLP). In addition to KTPs, Ball worked on a project
 with Ethos Valuable Outcomes and Cuzzolin has been awarded funding from Huawei for
 consultancy (0.2 FTE) and support for a RF and a PhD Studentship. Additional links with industry
 have been established through the School’s Industry Advisory Board. Members represent a cross
 section of the computer science industry and provide guidance and advice on both teaching and
 research.

 The support within the university for establishing links with industry is described in Section 3.2.

 Through our contacts with industry we have received equipment to support our research. Wild
 received samples of Hololens from for his work on AR and Cuzzolin received a hardware grant of
 £650 from NVIDIA for a Titan GPU card to support his work on action recognition.

 2.3 Research Students (PGR)
 The university has a strong doctoral student culture and this is coordinated at the School level by
 the Post Graduate Research Tutor (PGRT, Olde Scheper). We are focussed on creating
 opportunities for our PhD students to develop the necessary experience to equip themselves for
 future academic or technical careers. All PGR students are given the opportunity to provide teaching
 support through lectures, tutorials and laboratory work. The majority of research projects involve the
 use of software tools for simulation and analysis which are commonly used in industry, so students
 gain skills which are highly valued by employers.

 All PGR students are members of the Graduate College which is a student community coordinated
 by the university’s graduate office. Within the Faculty, the UoA fosters close and supportive links
 between staff and PGR students, which are further developed through the faculty’s programme of
 events. All students are involved in the Faculty’s Doctoral Training Programme, which provides a
 programme of professional development and careers training. The supervision team are available
 to provide technical guidance and advice on the direction of research; all students produce an annual
 report and have an annual appraisal organised by the PGRT who monitors the overall progress of
 the project and the training to ensure progress is appropriate for a timely completion. All
 postgraduate research students have an opportunity to present their research work at the Faculty
 Research Festival which is held in May each year and is co-ordinated by a team of students.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over the period 2014-2020 there have been 18 PhD completions, which compares to 14 over the
 previous REF period 2009-2014.

 We are very proud of the record of the career progression of our PGR students. We believe that the
 research environment has played a significant role in this success due to the quality of the technical
 training as well as the mentoring provided for all students. Students that have completed their PhD
 with supervisors in ISERC have been employed with Samsung Research Centre in the USA and as
 PDRAs at Stanford University, ETH Zurich and UoO. Students that have completed their PhD in
 DSERC, now have roles as Head of Microcontroller Series Development Group at Continental AG
 Automotive Industries group in Germany, Senior Software Engineer at Trip Advisor, Data Analyst at
 Deductive and Senior Analogue Verification Engineer at Infineon Technologies; this alumnus also
 now serves as a member of the School’s Industry Advisory Board.

 PGR students have also been recipients of awards as a result of their research excellence; a student
 with Olde Scheper, Martin and Aldea received the best poster award at Womencourage 2019 for
 her work on diabetes management. In VAIL, a student supervised by Cuzzolin won the reading
 group prize at the 2015 International Computer Vision Summer School (ICVSS) and a team of
 students secured 2nd place in both the 2016 and 2017 Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
 (CVPR) activity detection challenges.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 Advancing equality of opportunity for all researchers, and a concern for equality and diversity, is
 embedded into our University systems and structures as detailed in our Code of Practice, and the
 IES (Section 3).

 Of the 23 (by headcount) eligible staff in UoA11, 18 have significant responsibility for research (SRR)
 (17.3 FTE). Of the 17.3 FTE with SRR, 17% are women reflecting the current proportion of women
 in computer science nationally (15%); 75% of eligible women have SRR. In addition, 23% are from
 a BAME background; this compares to the national average for engineering and technology of 23%.
 Our EIA showed no significant difference in those with SRR by any of protected characteristics
 including gender and ethnicity. Equally, there were no differences in the selection of outputs by
 gender, ethnicity or other protected characteristics. As stated in Section 2.1, we are making a
 determined effort to address the gender and ethnicity balance through our involvement in Athena
 Swan (Faculty Bronze) and the Race Equality Charters (Institutional application planned for 2021).

 We are endeavouring to attract more women into computer science through summer computing
 workshops run by Aldea, Kamal and Martin, who introduce the subject to women students in a
 friendly environment. The events include programming and the design of wearable technologies.

 Of the 18 PhD completions, 18% were women; this compares to the national average of 17%. In
 addition, 76% of these PGR students were from BAME backgrounds, which is significantly above
 the UK average (27%). Six of the PhD students were funded by university scholarships. We are
 pleased to report that, of the current cohort of 13 PGR students, 46% are women, which is showing
 a positive trajectory in terms of gender equality and we hope that this will encourage more women
 into computer science research in the future as more role models graduate.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 One of the strategies for the UoA over the period 2014-2020 was to ‘increase external funding’
 (Section 1.3). The unit has had notable success over this period with over 50% of the staff submitting
 bids for external funding. A process of internal peer review of funding proposals has been introduced
 to improve the quality of the proposals and to share good practice.

 The total external funding spend over the current REF period was c.£2,350,000, which compares to
 c.£1,000,000 over the previous REF period.

 The major sources of external funding are as follows, noting that a number of the recent awards will
 realise research spend over the next REF period.

 Awards in ISERC:
  ● Cuzzolin: Horizon 2020 project SARAS (Smart Autonomous Robotic Assistant Surgeon)
     €596,073. More details of this project are given in Section 4.1.
  ● Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) with Meta Vision LTD (£143,000) and Createc
     (£190,000) – see Section 2.2
  ● A three-year research agreement on complex activity recognition from videos with Huawei
     Technologies Canada (£278,000)
  ● A Leverhulme Trust award £273,000 for research on Machine Theory of Mind.
  ● Cuzzolin is also a Lead Team member and advisor for the recent £1,257,000 Research
     England UEZ-funded Oxford Brookes Artificial Intelligence & Data Analysis Incubator (AIDA),
     which is led by Crook and is co-funded by Oxford Brookes for an additional £654,000.
  ● Wild received EU funding for projects directed at the application of augmented reality and
     performance augmented learning:
       ⮚ Wearable Experience for Knowledge Intensive Training (WEKIT), (c.€280,000)
       ⮚ Textile & Clothing Business Labs (TCBL), (c.€401,000)
       ⮚ Learning Analytics for Augmented Reality (LAAR), (c.€58,000)
       ⮚ Augmented Reality for Formal European University Education (AR- FOR-EU), (€78,800)
       ⮚ Augmented Reality Interactive Educational System (ARETE), (€342,000)


 Awards in DSERC:
  ● Martin is the PI for the H2020 collaborative research project ‘PEPPER’ (Patient Empowerment
     through Predictive PERsonalised decision support) (2016-2020). The project has total funding
     of c.€3,500,000 with €643,000 for OBU. More details of this work are given in Section 4.2.
  ● Martin was also part of a GCRF Royal Academy of Medical Sciences grant of £59,700
     (£12,000 to OBU) (2019 – 2020) for the project COORDINATES: (Cloud-Based Tool for
     diabetes management and research in Colombia). More details in Section 4.2.
  ● Aldea and Olde Scheper were awarded a Newton Institutional Link grant (£97,281 for OBU)
     for the CArDIGAN (Criticality Analysis of Diabetic Gait in Children) project. More details in
     Section 4.2.
  ● Martin has been awarded GCRF Innovate UK funding of £10,000 (total project £59,600) for a
     6 month pilot study (2020) to study the acceptance of immersive technology as an educational
     tool for patients with diabetes. More details in Section 4.2.
  ● Jabir was awarded a Leverhulme Trust Research Project Grant: “MONITOR: A Self-
     Reparable Memristive Gas Sensor Array” (£234,000) See section 4.1 for more details.
  ● There have also been 5 KTPs with industry partners as described in Section 2.2

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Organisational infrastructure: Research in this UoA is coordinated by the RL (Ball) and the
 Research Centre Leads (Harrison and Ball) supported by the Group Leaders. A PGRT (Olde
 Scheper) manages the PhD students.

 The UoA is supported by the Faculty Research Support Office. This provides support for academic
 staff in the Faculty of Technology, Design and Environment to undertake high quality, high impact

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research and knowledge exchange activities. It also supports the Faculty in the development and
 delivery of the strategies which lead to these activities. It consists of a Research Manager who
 provides a link between each UoA and the ADRKE, two Grants officers and a Research
 Administrator who provide information about available funding opportunities and support in the
 bidding process. The Research Support office supports the research programmes through regular
 RKE Committee meetings, an Ethics approval panel and a Grants approval panel. The Research
 Office also coordinates a mentoring scheme. The university Research and Business Development
 Office (RBDO) has an IP & Commercialisation Manager who works closely with all our researchers
 to identify and develop ideas to maximise patent and commercial opportunities.

 The RBDO support a KTP Manager who establishes links between companies and research teams
 and supports the preparation of KTP proposals.

 Operational infrastructure: Brookes IT Services maintain the university computer infrastructure.
 It also hosts workstations used for AI simulation in a secure, air-conditioned server room with
 uninterruptible power supplies for high reliability operation. ECM has an IT Technical Coordinator
 who supports the computing infrastructure for both teaching courses and research. The Estates and
 Facilities are managed centrally within the university but the School has a Technical Support Service
 Manager who coordinates facilities for the School and liaises with the central team. He also
 manages the technical support staff. The university library has a librarian dedicated to the School
 who maintains access to the key resources including publication databases.

 Facilities: Each Centre has a dedicated laboratory for the research students. These laboratories
 were relocated into refurbished accommodation at the start of 2018 as part of a campus re-
 organisation. As the number of researchers in Cuzzolin’s group has increased since 2018, a
 second laboratory was made available for ISERC. These dedicated laboratories provide an
 environment where students working with similar skill sets can interact and share their experiences.
 The staff that are associated with each Centre have offices close by the laboratories which
 encourages a close working relationship between all the researchers in each centre and maximises
 the opportunities for sharing information and expertise.

 A new fabrication laboratory was established in 2018 to support courses and research which require
 hardware build and software integration. Two networking labs were set up in 2018 to support
 teaching and research into cyber security.

 An eight GPU workstation (£34,000) was funded by the School in 2019 to support the work on action
 recognition including the work on the ICS for Artificial Intelligence for Saliency Detection and Action
 Recognition.

 A dedicated laboratory was set up in 2019 for experimentation with Augmented Reality. This has
 cameras and AR headsets for testing AR algorithms. This infrastructure supported the ICS on
 Human Performance Augmentation.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Collaboration
 Collaboration with other groups and institutions both nationally and internationally has been one of
 the key factors in influencing the generation of impact from our research.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In ISERC, Cuzzolin’s VAIL has been a partner in the H2020 project SARAS (Smart Autonomous
 Robotic Assistant Surgeon). This project partners are University of Verona, University of Ferrara,
 University of Catalonia, University of Dundee, Università degli Studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia,
 Ospedale San Raffaele, Medineering, Austrian Center for Medical Innovation and Technology.
 SARAS aims at developing the next-generation of surgical robotic systems that will allow a single
 surgeon to execute Robotic Minimally Invasive Surgery (R-MIS) without the need of an expert
 assistant surgeon. The design approach in this project will have significant impact for hospitals as
 it is to produce a cost effective solution being developed in this project will have a tremendous impact
 for hospitals as it will allow more hospitals to access this technology and reduce their operating
 costs. (https://saras-project.eu/). We expect that impact from this work will be realised in the next
 REF period.

 Cuzzolin’s international reputation in action recognition has led to his collaboration with Huawei’s
 research lab in Vancouver. Action recognition algorithms developed under Cuzzolin’s guidance
 have been selected for use in Huawei’s mobile phones as described in Section 1.4. For this reason
 we have selected this work as one of the ICS for this UoA – see section 1.4.

 Cuzzolin is also collaborating with Cambridge University on the Levehulme Trust project ‘Machine
 Theory of Mind’. This project combines the action recognition skills in Cuzzolin’s group and the
 clinical neuropsychology knowledge of Sahakian (Cambridge) to investigate the next generation of
 action recognition techniques.

 In the PAL, over the period 2014-2020, Wild has been working on five collaborative European
 projects listed in Section 3.1. These projects include over 20 partnering organisations in countries
 across Europe. Wild’s work on PAL and his contribution to the IEEE specification for Augmented
 Reality Learning Experience Models (ARLEM, IEEE standard association working group p1589)
 could not have been achieved without this broad collaboration.

 In the Dependable Systems Engineering Research Centre (DSERC), Jabir’s Leverhulme Trust
 funded project on Self-Repairable Memristive Gas Sensor Array is in collaboration with the University
 of Rome. This project is investigating gas and chemical sensing properties of memristors and the
 collaboration combines the circuit design knowledge of Jabir with the fabrication facilities in Rome.

 Additional (interdisciplinary) collaborative projects are described in Section 1.5.

 Our KTP projects are an important part of our collaboration with industry and these are described in
 Section 2.2.

 4.2 Contribution to the Economy and Society
 The vitality and diversity of our research culture is demonstrated by the wide range of colleagues
 involved in developing impactful relationships with research users outside of academia.

 Our healthcare related projects will have a significant impact on the general public in the coming
 years. For example, Martin’s project PEPPER (see also Sections 1.5 and 3.1). This system
 provides a personalised decision support system using case-based reasoning combined with
 predictive computer modelling to enable patients with Type 1 diabetes to safely self-manage their
 condition. The project results and feedback from the trials indicate that the system has the potential
 to improve health outcomes for people with insulin-dependent diabetes. The long-term impact of



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PEPPER is to contribute to the evolution of diabetes technology to increase the participation of the
 patient in the care process which could lead to a reduction in global healthcare costs.

 Martin’s project, Abledoc, shows how immersive technology can be used as an educational tool for
 patients with diabetes. Martin’s project, COORDINATES is working with a hospital in Colombia to
 develop a Cloud-Based Tool for diabetes management. Aldea and Olde Scheper’s project,
 CArDIGAN (Criticality Analysis of Diabetic Gait in Children) project is working with a children’s
 hospital in Mexico (Obesity clinic, Hospital Infantil de Mexico Federico Guzman). It uses rate of
 chaos for gait analysis and the tests indicate that clinical intervention can be effective for improving
 the health of obese children. (See Sections 1.5 and 3.1 for additional information on these projects).

 Olde Scheper and Crook have been champions for outreach to the local community. Over 50
 presentations have been given to schools, churches, University of the 3rd Age and interviews on
 radio and TV. For example, Olde Scheper and Hughes gave a presentation on robotics to St
 Andrew's Church of England Primary School (January 2018) and Crook gave a talk on ‘Robots vs
 Humans’ to Magdalen College School and a talk on ‘Robots of good character’ to the University of
 the 3rd Age at OBU (23rd November 2015). Crook has also given several interviews on robotics on
 radio and TV such as ‘Realistic humanoid robots and computer graphics’, BBC World News, Global
 programme, 6th November 2014 and ‘Comments on Autonomous moral vehicles‘, BBC Radio
 Oxford Radio 9th February 2018. Olde Scheper has given an interview on ‘Artificial Intelligence’ on
 BBC Radio Oxford (27 August 2017).

 4.3 Contribution to the research base
 Staff contribute strongly to the process of research dissemination through their journal editorship
 e.g. Harrison is Editor-in-Chief of the Software Quality Journal and Cuzzolin is on the Editorial
 Board for IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems. Staff also serve as conference chairs and on
 programme committees e.g. Zhu is a co-founder of the IEEE international Conferences on Artificial
 Intelligence Test (AI Test) and a general chair of its first edition held in San Francisco in April 2019,
 Harrison has served on the programme committee for the International Conference on Software
 Engineering (ICSE), Younas has served as Program Chair at the IEEE International Conference on
 Big Data Computing Service & Applications, California, USA, 2019, Cuzzolin was Program Chair of
 the 3rd International Conference on the Theory of Belief Functions (BELIEF 2014) and is a member
 of the Board of Directors of the Belief Functions and Applications Society (BFAS), which organises
 the BELIEF series of conferences.

 Staff undertake reviews for a wide range of journals including: IEEE Transactions On Systems Man
 and Cybernetics Systems, Neurocomputing, IET Wireless Sensors Systems, IEEE Access,
 Information and Software Technology, Journal of Concurrency and Computation: Practice and
 Experience.

 Staff are regular contributors at conferences, and have frequently been invited as keynote speakers
 e.g. Wild gave keynote presentations for European Space Programmes (2019) at ESA in Noordwijk,
 Younas gave an invited talk at IEEE International Conference on Big Data Computing Service &
 Applications, Bamberg, Germany, 2018, Jabir presented invited special sessions at the IEEE
 International Symposium on On-Line Testing and Robust System Design (IOLTS’ 2019), Cuzzolin
 gave a keynote speech at several conferences including the International Conference on Computer
 Science and its Applications (CSA, 2016).




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sustainability of the discipline: Staff in this UoA make a contribution to the sustainability of the
 discipline through the development of new areas of research; Cuzzolin is a leading researcher in
 action recognition and belief functions, Zhu, Harrison and Bayley are developing the new
 techniques for software testing of AI, Jabir’s work on circuit designs incorporating memristor
 technology provides opportunities for new and improved reliable system solutions and Crook has
 established the Institute for Ethical AI.

 Staff also contribute to the research community through the peer review process; Cuzzolin is a
 member of the European Research Council, Younas, Harrison and Cuzzolin are Members of the
 of the Associate College of reviewers for EPSRC and Crook is an Expert Evaluator of EU proposals,
 a Reviewer of EU funded projects and a panel member for the UKRI Future Leader’s scheme.




                                                                                           Page 15
