Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: 33A (Music)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and Structure
 The University of Leeds is making two submissions to Sub-Panel D33. UoA33A comprises
 researchers in School of Music, one of the largest groups of music researchers in the UK. The
 School is one of nine in the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Cultures, formed in 2016 through the
 merger of the Faculty of Arts and the Faculty of Performance, Visual Arts and Communication with
 the aim of maximizing research potential by integrating research expertise and best practice in
 support mechanisms. Among the measures of the success of the merger is that the Faculty is
 currently the sector leader in attracting AHRC funding, while the School of Music has benefitted from
 additional study leave apportionment and support for international research activity.

 Research Strategy
 Research in the School explores the interaction of music with people, cultures and technologies; by
 disseminating the knowledge created through this work we advocate for the historic and continuing
 significance of music in society. Our research is organized around three clusters, which articulate and
 provide structure for strategic objectives: 1) Music as Culture; 2) Making Music; 3) Music,
 Science, and Technology. Research in Music as Culture explores music principally of the Western
 tradition from the seventeenth century to the present day, with strengths in music and theatre, music
 and film, music and literature, music and cultural identity, post-war music, popular music, and musical
 aesthetics. In Making Music, our approach is practice-led: our composers write critical and
 experimental work in acoustic and electronic mediums, while practice-based methodologies
 characterize our work in historically informed performance. Music, Science, and Technology
 encompasses music psychology, music and wellbeing and the history and affordances of technology
 in relation to music. The clusters are also a framework for recruitment of staff and postgraduate
 researchers (PGRs); they support recently appointed and early career researchers (ECRs),
 dissemination of outputs, impact and developing work, identification and capture of grant funding,
 and are entry points for PGRs to the School’s wider research culture. Cluster leaders report to the
 School Research and Innovation Committee (SRIC), and facilitate peer reading of developing
 research and grant applications. While the clusters articulate our research framework, they are broad
 and flexible; staff and PGRs participate in multiple clusters and we encourage research that cuts
 across notional cluster boundaries. For example, Thurley’s work encompasses practice as a
 composer and musicological studies of composers. Ireland’s work draws upon music psychology
 and music and film studies. Venn, McLaughlin, and Burland collaborated on a chapter entitled
 ‘Musicology and its Others’ that approaches writing about music from perspectives that inform the
 sub-disciplines prominent in each cluster: musicology, composition, and music psychology.

 The School’s strategic objectives align with those of the University; in the assessment period we
 have produced high-quality research outputs including monographs and co-authored books by
 Cooper, Erraught, Iddon, Ireland, McClelland, Sapiro, Scott, Venn and White, two large-scale
 critical editions of correspondence by Allis and Iddon, historically-informed performance editions
 (Brown), award-winning compositions (Thurley’s Darmstadt Kranichsteiner Musikpreis for
 composition), and significant and increased contributions to the field of music psychology
 (https://music-psych.leeds.ac.uk). This has been achieved through strategies articulated in REF2014
 of: 1) encouraging large-scale research projects, supported by sequenced bidding (School, Faculty
 and other University pump-priming funds, School and Faculty study leave, small grants leading to

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 major Research Council bids); 2) diversifying grant capture; 3) embedding impact in research
 projects; and 4) expanding external partnerships. The combination of these strategies has led to
 trebling of our research grant income in comparison with the last assessment period.

 In Music as Culture, Iddon pursed a long-term research strategy supported through multiple grants
 (BA Small Grant, AHRC Early Career Research Fellowship, AHRC-funded John Cage and the
 Concert for Piano and Orchestra) leading to a critical edition of correspondence between Cage and
 Peter Yates, a co-authored book, John Cage’s Concert for Piano and Orchestra, and a website and
 apps exploring the Concert and Solo for Piano. The AHRC grant was developed in partnership with
 Philip Thomas (Huddersfield) and brought Payne as a postdoctoral researcher (subsequently
 appointed to a permanent post in the School). Muir’s AHRC-funded Performing the Jewish Archive
 (PtJA) developed through a staged series of grants; a Worldwide Universities Network (WUN)
 Mobility Grant, a BA Small Grant and a WUN International Research Collaboration Grant supported
 partnerships with the Universities of York, Sydney and Wisconsin, and research that enabled PtJA.
 This project brought to light a substantial corpus of works by Jewish composers, poets and
 playwrights from the first half of the twentieth century and made them available through live
 performance in Australia, South Africa, the Czech Republic, United States, and UK, and in recordings
 hosted on the PtJA website. To research the Trevor Jones Archive, deposited with the School in
 2005, Cooper and Sapiro developed the AHRC-funded The Professional Career and Output of
 Trevor Jones, which brought a PGR (Hall) and postdoctoral researcher (Anderson); the latter co-
 authored The Screen Music of Trevor Jones with Sapiro and Cooper. The School’s first ERC-funded
 project, Scott’s German Operetta in London and New York, 1907-1939, brought Senior Research
 fellow Belina to the School. Together Scott and Belina co-edited The Business of Opera (2015),
 Music History and Cosmopolitanism (2019) and The Cambridge Companion to Operetta (2019), and
 organised workshops and an international conference. This work culminated in Scott’s monograph,
 German Operetta on Broadway and in the West End 1900-1940.

 Within Music, Science, and Technology, Greasley’s work exploring the relationship between music
 listening and hearing aids was facilitated by the AHRC-funded Hearing Aids for Music: Exploring the
 Music Listening Behaviour of People with Hearing Impairments (HAfM). This research improved
 knowledge of how hearing-impaired people understand and use their hearing aids, and of how
 audiologists can advise on their most effective use in musical settings (see ICS2). Mooney’s British
 Library Edison Fellowship and BA/Leverhulme Small Grant led to the AHRC-funded Hugh Davies:
 Electronic Music Innovator. This work has generated a more ambitious study, the groundwork of
 which is being laid through a BA/Leverhulme Small Grant Instrumentalizing Electronic Sound 1945–
 75. Mooney’s research has been strengthened by an interdisciplinary faculty partnership with
 Gooday in the School of Philosophy, Religion and History of Science, and is underpinned by a
 collaborative approach that has engaged the National Science and Media Museum (Bradford), the
 Science Museum (London), Access Space (Sheffield) and the American researcher Trevor Pinch
 (Cornell University), the latter enabled by a Cheney Fellowship. Partners in the new phase of the
 project include the Musical Instruments Museum (Brussels), Canada Science and Technology
 Museum (Ottawa), and the Computer History Museum (Mountain View, CA).

 In Making Music McLaughlin’s practice-based AHRC Leadership Fellowship, The Garden of
 Forking Paths, developed through partnerships facilitated through the School and the University’s
 Cultural Institute. McLaughlin and Spencer collaborated with the professional clarinettist Heather
 Roche to create a co-composed work (Palmyra) and workshops for PGR composers in the School.
 Roche became a collaborator in The Garden of Forking Paths, which explores

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 performer/composer/instrument ecosystems. The project intersects with McLaughlin’s research on
 music and ecosystems developed through the University’s interdisciplinary Crucible workshops (part
 of the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts Global Crucible Programme), which
 supported research on sound creation and ecosystems with researchers in the Schools of
 Engineering and Earth and Environment. Over the assessment period Iddon, McLaughlin, Stefani,
 Spencer and Thurley, have received 61 composition commissions from national (Britten-Pears
 Foundation; RVW Trust) and international bodies and festivals (e.g. iN Festival, Seoul, Tzil Meudcan
 Festival, Tel Aviv) for performers including the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra, Ensemble
 Interface, Mira Benjamin and Séverine Ballon.

 Interdisciplinary work is supported through collaborative research and partnerships. School
 researchers have organised and participated in the annual Sadler Seminar Series, programmes of
 events funded by the Leeds Arts and Humanities Research Institute (LAHRI), which bring together
 researchers from different schools in the Faculty. Venn, Jago and Mooney collaborated with Popple
 (School of Media and Communications) and Tim Boon (Science Museum) to offer the Sadler
 Seminar Music 625: The Performance of Music on TV, c. 1955–85. The Cultural Institute’s Innovation
 fund, which engages with Leeds Museums and Galleries, supported McLaughlin’s project with
 Jackson (School of Media and Communications) and the Abbey House Museum, Music, Materiality
 and Making Sense of Music Collections (2019).

 Over the next five years we will sustain the high quality of our research through continued focus on
 long-term research projects enabled through diverse and carefully staged grant applications,
 interdisciplinary partnerships and external collaborations, underpinned by impact. In Music and
 Culture, Venn’s AHRC Research Leadership Fellowship, The Operas of Thomas Adés (June 2020),
 is part of his sustained engagement with Adés’s music; it supports: Venn’s work toward a monograph
 on Adés’s operas; a network of scholars who are developing a multi-author book on Adés’s music;
 and collaborative impact activities with Opera North. In Music, Science, and Technology,
 Greasley’s work on hearing aids has led to a collaborative EPSRC grant application (Transforming
 Music Listening for Hearing-Impaired Individuals). In Making Music, ECR Thurley is building on his
 Kranichsteiner Musikpreis with the award of School and Faculty research leave to fulfil commissions
 from the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra and Riot Ensemble.

 Impact Strategy
 The School’s research and expertise has long been of significance to local, national and international
 communities and organisations; through the assessment period it has significantly strengthened
 impact activities. The School has increased workload allocation for its Director of Impact, and in 2018
 appointed a permanent (0.2 FTE) Impact Support Officer (Pitches). Our commitment to impact—
 central to our collaborations and strategic approach to grant funding—is, alongside our approach to
 long-term research trajectories, a fundamental plank of our plan for future sustainability.

 All research staff are supported in building impact into their research planning. Scott’s work in the
 sociology of popular and light musics from the mid-nineteenth to mid-twentieth century (see ICS1)
 exemplifies for other researchers in the School the cultivation of impact through research. Likewise,
 HAfM (see ICS2) and PtJA have provided exceptional models of integrating impact within research
 project design.

 Our strategy of increasing the visibility of the School beyond the HE sector has led to significant
 achievements in building partnerships that deliver impact. This has in part been accomplished by

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working with the Cultural Institute by targeting its Ignite funding scheme (10 grants totalling £19k
 since 2014; see Infrastructure) and engaging with its Arts and Health strand, to which our Music and
 Wellbeing research (Bailes, Burland, Greasley, Payne) speaks directly. We exploit the University’s
 institutional partnership with Opera North (DARE), as in Burland’s DARE Academic Residency, the
 Opera North collaborative PhD hosted in the School and Venn’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship The
 Operas of Thomas Adés.

 The clusters are platforms for research that generates impact through changes in perception and
 understanding (within society and public discourse), enrichment of cultural life and related
 economies, policy and practice in relation to cultural organisations, and wellbeing. In terms of users,
 beneficiaries and audiences, with inevitable crossovers, Music, Science, and Technology involves
 Working with Charities and Health Organizations, Music as Culture involves Working with the
 Media, and Making Music involves Working with Professional, Semi-professional, and Amateur
 Performers and Composers; Working with Museums and Galleries falls under the work of all three
 clusters.

 Working with Charities and Health Organizations: Through partnership with Nordoff Robbins, Bailes
 and Burland initiated the Music for Healthy Lives Network (https://musicforhealthylives.org), which
 builds on the 2017 All-Party Parliamentary Group publication of the Arts and Wellbeing strategy. The
 network provides evidence to support existing knowledge of the positive impact of musical
 experience on health, in order to promote and connect music practitioners to healthcare providers.
 Working in partnership with the NHS and other health professionals, Greasley developed guidance
 on adjusting hearing aids to facilitate better musical engagement for users.

 Working with the Media: Scott’s research, interviews and performances have reached mass
 audiences in UK and abroad through mediums including television, radio and videogames (see
 ICS1). Cooper, Iddon, Payne and Venn have appeared on BBC Radio 3; McLaughlin, Muir,
 Spencer and Venn on local BBC radio channels. Our composers’ compositions have been broadcast
 on radio stations in Ireland, Poland, Portugal, Serbia, New Zealand and the United States; Iddon has
 been interviewed on Deutschlandfunk and WDR, while Spencer’s music was featured on the
 SOUNDLAB New Music Podcast. Spencer’s collaboration with PGR Halay on a new composition for
 28 pianos marking the School’s Steinway School accreditation received press coverage and has
 been disseminated through Livestream and YouTube. Greasley’s contribution to a documentary
 investigating the physical and mental health of professional DJs has received over 225k views
 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mFmfOSt2uCE). Bailes’s contribution on earworms for The
 Conversation (https://theconversation.com/i-just-cant-get-you-out-of-my-head-how-to-eradicate-
 earworms-58094) was widely disseminated through social media.

 Working with Professional, Semi-professional, and Amateur Performers and Composers: Brown’s
 historically-informed performance research has changed cultures of performance and listening, by
 influencing professional performers including Isabelle Faust, the Eroica Quartet, Ironwood and
 Rachel Barton Pine; economic impact results via new recordings made distinctive through Brown’s
 research. Brown’s work has been significant in the development of practice-based PhDs at Leeds:
 several of his PGRs are professional performers specializing in historically-informed performance.
 His lectures, seminars and workshops with performers in Australia, Europe and the United States
 continue to influence performing practice. His editions of Brahms’s chamber music for solo
 instrument and piano with performance guide (2016), undertaken with former PGR Neal Peres da
 Costa, and then current PGR Kate Wadsworth have set a new standard for editions supporting

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 historically-informed practice. Muir’s and White’s choral work with the Clothworkers’ Consort of
 Leeds (CCL) led to impact through partnerships and performances. An Ignite grant enabled White
 and PGR Roberts to create a performing edition of Philip Hayes’s Judgment of Hermes (1783), and
 to collaborate with Skipton Camerata (skiptoncamerata.com) and CCL in its first modern performance
 (2015). Muir’s research and editions informed CCL’s performance in Music on the Brink of
 Destruction at Wigmore Hall, broadcast on Radio 3 (2017). Iddon has acted as consultant on three
 Bärenreiter guides for new music performance techniques (guitar, cello and tuba) and led the tuba
 and harp composition workshops at the Darmstadt New Music Courses (2018). The recording of
 Cage’s Concerto for Piano and Orchestra (Huddersfield Contemporary Records, 2017), influenced by
 Iddon’s and Payne’s research, was the American Record Guide Critics Choice 2018 and was
 favourably reviewed in Gramophone magazine.

 Working with Museums and Galleries: Mooney’s work with the Science Museum Group develops
 and influences curatorial practice. His research informed the Science Museum's 2016 Music and
 Science programme of activities and exhibitions by providing detailed information and expertise on a
 collection of musical instruments and equipment previously owned by the electroacoustic musician
 Hugh Davies (1943–2005). Mooney collaborated with the National Science and Media Museum to
 make recommendations on the acquisition, interpretation and display of objects of electronic sound
 for its Sound and Vision Galleries (opening 2022). Mooney also co-supervises a Collaborative
 Doctoral Award, Objects of Electronic Sound and Music in Museums, with Knifton (School of Fine Art,
 History of Art and Cultural Studies) and Jamieson (National Science and Media Museum). White’s
 research on the collections of W.T. Freemantle led to an event at the Ilkley Literary Festival (2016)
 and an exhibition in the University Library’s Treasures Gallery (2019); through a related Ignite grant
 he advised Museums Sheffield on the development of their Freemantle collections. Muir’s PtJA
 engaged organizations including the British Library where concerts (‘Strains of Revolution’) including
 CCL were part of the Library’s Russian Revolution: Hope, Tragedy, Myths exhibition (2017), and
 where the final conference of PtJA was hosted (2018).

 The School pursues University and UKRI policies on Open Access (OA). Since 2014 author-
 accepted manuscripts for subscription journals have been uploaded to Symplectic, the University’s
 research outputs management system, and made available through Green OA at White Rose
 Research Online (https://eprints.whiterose.ac.uk), facilitated by the Library’s Research Support Unit.
 Where appropriate, research data is made available freely through the Research Data Leeds
 Repository (http://archive.researchdata.leeds.ac.uk/information.html; e.g. Mooney’s curated
 performances of live electronic music compositions by Hugh Davies). Scores and performances of
 compositions by Iddon, McLaughlin, Spencer, Stefani, and Thurley are freely available through
 streaming sites and personal websites. Websites for HAfM, PtJA, The Professional Career and
 Output of Trevor Jones, German Operetta in London, New York and Warsaw, and The Garden of
 Forking Paths host freely accessible research outputs including conference papers, performances of
 music and drama, scores, programmes and data sets. Iddon’s AHRC project generated a freely
 accessible website (cageconcert.org) incorporating extensive text and media resources and two apps
 allowing users to make individual realizations of the Concert for Piano and Orchestra and to make
 realizations for performance of the notations from the Solo for Piano. Strategic University funding
 supporting the impact of Greasley’s work enabled Gold OA for her article in the International Journal
 of Audiology; Scott’s German Operetta on Broadway and in the West End, 1900-1940 is available
 through Gold OA secured with ERC funding.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In compliance with institutional policy, ethical approval from the Faculty Research Ethics Committee
 (FREC) is sought for all research (staff and PGR) involving the collection of data from participants.
 Each school in the Faculty is represented on the FREC by an Ethics Lead, who takes part in
 reviewing applications. Work in music reviewed through this process includes interviewing/observing
 composers and performers; surveying music consumers for aesthetics research; and pedagogy
 research projects. Through FREC the School influences Faculty ethics policy and processes,
 including considerations of ethics in practice-led research. FREC provides guidance on data storage
 and protection, and all research staff are required to complete the University’s online data security
 training.

 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development: The strategic objective of sustaining our profile in
 historical, critical and popular musicology, aesthetics, music psychology, music technology,
 composition, and performance studies has led to new appointments in each research cluster over the
 assessment period. Venn, Pritchard, Jago and Erraught have strengthened Music as Culture,
 while Cooper retired in 2018 and Scott in September 2020. The School recruited Bailes through the
 University’s Academic Fellows scheme, through which researchers follow a five-year development
 programme leading to a permanent position at Associate Professor level. Her appointment in Music,
 Science, and Technology, along with that of Payne, supports our leading position in music
 psychology, with six researchers in this specialism (also Burland, Greasley, Ireland and Windsor).
 The appointment of Thurley and Payne (who also has specialism in performance studies) has
 enriched Making Music, while Brown has retired (2016). Our staff profile covers all career stages,
 from ECRs to senior researchers (21 researchers; 5 Professors; 13 Associate Professors/Senior
 Lecturers; 5 Lecturers including 2 ECRs). Promotions (detailed below) have developed a new
 generation of research leaders to replace retiring professors. Our FTE of staff submitting to REF has
 increased by 24% since the previous exercise (2014: 14.9; 2020: 19.6). The School provides security
 to researchers through permanent appointments. Jago (who left for another post in 2018), Payne,
 Pritchard and Thurley moved from fixed-term to permanent positions during the assessment period.
 All research-active staff are on permanent contracts, a position we will maintain apart from
 recruitment through research grants that support fixed-term appointments only.

 The School’s strategy of supporting and developing research staff aligns with that of the University: in
 the review period there have been three internal promotions to Chair (Allis, Burland, Windsor), and
 eight to Associate Professor (Bailes, Greasley, Jago, Mooney, Pritchard, Sapiro, Stefani, Venn).
 The University paused its promotions process from April to the end of July 2020; at its resumption
 Venn was promoted to Professor. The University is a signatory to the Researcher Development
 Concordat, and the School adheres to the principles of that agreement. Induction, probation and the
 Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS) are defined at institutional level, with mandatory
 training for reviewers, and introductory and developmental programmes run through Organisational
 Development and Professional Learning (OD&PL) and the Research and Innovation Service (RIS).
 Annual Academic Meetings (AAMs) are a vital part of the School’s strategy; each researcher meets
 with the Head of School, Director of Research and Innovation (DoRI), and the Director of Student
 Education to review and develop individual strategic research and impact plans, and to integrate
 these in the wider strategies of the School. Written feedback, guidance and action points are
 provided to reviewees, and discussions help to inform the School’s collective strategy and progress,
 which are considered in the SRIC. Discussions include supporting staff toward research leadership
 roles in the School (DoRI, Director of Impact, DPGRS) and at Faculty, University and sector-wide
 levels. These processes help ECRs and mid-career researchers identify activity that will build their


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 profiles and progress in relation to institutional promotional criteria. The close alignment of School
 and University research strategies ensures that the breadth of research activity (publication, grant
 capture, impact, PGR supervision, research leadership) are recognized through pay awards and
 promotion. New staff and ECRs are additionally supported by a probation mentor. AAMs and the
 research clusters provide opportunities for mentoring for any researcher by senior members of the
 School.

 All researchers are allocated research time in their workloads (0.2 FTE) and are encouraged to apply
 for research leave through competitive internal and external schemes. The School scheme allows for
 applications one semester in seven; the process is aligned with that of the Faculty scheme (see
 below); applications are judged by the SRIC on the criteria of intellectual merit, originality and
 academic significance, and for the outcomes and benefits as they relate to the School’s research
 strategy. Changes in research leave arrangements have added flexibility to allow partial leave
 awards in instances where this may better fit individual circumstances. Seventeen awards (all but
 three of a full semester) were made to twelve different researchers in the assessment period. All
 researchers can draw up to £800 annually for research activity and ECRs can access additional
 funding for the development of their research work. Allocation of School leave and funding supports
 the School’s strategy, research projects and impact, for instance by funding conference travel or for
 dissemination and impact activity. Membership in the new Faculty has increased access to support
 through the Faculty Research Leave Scheme, which is open to competitive application for matching
 leave by individuals who have succeeded at School level (e.g. Mooney, Thurley, Venn). The
 Laidlaw Undergraduate Research Leadership Scholarships, funding six-week work periods with
 School researchers in two consecutive summers (as well as leadership development activities year
 round), bring students into research projects and demonstrate our commitment to embedding
 research in our teaching; students engage in archival research, data collection and analysis and
 other activities, are trained and gain practical experience in research methodologies, and develop
 interests and skills that can inspire them to pursue postgraduate study. This work has led to student
 and researcher joint-authored publications, conference papers and online exhibitions. Projects have
 been led by Bailes, Burland, Muir, Venn and White. PGR studentships, postdoctoral posts and
 research fellows are built into grant bids where possible (e.g. The Screen Music of Trevor Jones,
 PtJA, HAfM, John Cage and the Concert for Piano and Orchestra and German Operetta in London,
 New York and Warsaw).

 Postgraduate Researchers
 The School recruits PGRs across all clusters; we have sustained a thriving community over the
 assessment period during which we have awarded almost 50 PhDs. The School recruits high-quality
 PGRs through the White Rose College of Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH, see Infrastructure)
 studentship competition. It offers the Stanley Burton Research Scholarship annually and encourages
 applications to the highly competitive Leeds Doctoral Scholarships and the Faculty’s Doctoral
 Scholarships. In the review period the School has supported Collaborative Doctoral Awards with
 Opera North and with the National Science and Media Museum and through a collaborative network
 in which candidates have a supervisor in two of the three WRoCAH institutions (Universities of
 Leeds, Sheffield and York). Irrespective of funding basis, the School has attracted high-calibre
 candidates, including Richard Barrett (‘Britain’s most radical and innovative composer of the present’
 in Musical Opinion 2002), who, through a Stanley Burton Research Scholarship, completed a
 practice-led PhD in 2018, and the professional violinist Hazel Brooks (http://hazelbrooks.co.uk), who
 holds a WRoCAH studentship. The School supports full-time and part-time modes of study with
 flexibility to move between the two as best suits individual circumstances. PGRs are allocated

                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 primary and secondary supervisors and receive a minimum of ten or six supervisions annually
 according to full-time or part-time registration. PGRs are also offered an annual review with the
 Director of Postgraduate Research Studies (DPGRS), at which supervisors are not present, to
 discuss supervision arrangements and progress. Toward the end of the first year of study (c. 10
 months full-time, 20 months part-time) PGRs submit an upgrade document, which is examined
 through a viva. Successful candidates transfer to full-PhD status. The University is committed to
 equality of opportunity (see http://www.leeds.ac.uk/rsa/support/disability.html) and its Graduate Board
 and Faculty Graduate School ensure consistent application of policy. The School has strong
 representation on these bodies (e.g., Spencer is Head of Faculty Graduate School). Students
 undertaking cross-disciplinary research with supervisors in two schools (six students, co-supervised
 in four different schools: Computing, Education, Fine Art, History of Art and Cultural Studies, and
 Performance and Cultural Industries) receive the same opportunities available to those supervised
 solely within the School.

 In consultation with supervisors, each PGR constructs a training plan, progress against which is
 measured biannually, and additional training needs are identified over the course of the degree.
 Training includes interactive online courses for induction and transfer to full PhD. Training in HEI-
 teaching is available; those who complete relevant training can apply through a transparent process
 (with CV, cover letter and interview) for teaching opportunities in the School. Training is delivered
 through the Leeds Doctoral College (https://www.leeds.ac.uk/info/130558/leeds_doctoral_college) in
 conjunction with OD&PL. The University also invests significantly in the WRoCAH Doctoral Training
 Programme, which includes distinctive features facilitating collaboration between PGRs and non-HEI
 external partners and a strong international dimension.

 Training plans are maintained online within the University’s Graduate Record of Achievement and
 Development (GRAD), which includes a training needs analysis tool based on the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Supervision meetings, transfer, and formal reports on progress are logged
 in GRAD, which is easily updated and maintained by staff and PGRs and enables efficient and
 responsible record-keeping for all parties.

 The School’s PGRs run biannual Postgraduate Research Symposia at which they gain experience of
 conference presentation through the delivery of research papers to peers, staff, and external
 researchers. PGRs are encouraged to participate in Faculty- and University-wide events, including
 the Leeds Doctoral College Showcase. Our PGRs have won awards at the annual Postgraduate
 Researcher Poster Conference (Ulor, 2018, first prize), and the Three-minute Thesis (Cameron,
 2018, second prize). PGRs are invited to present work in Research Cluster Lunches and through the
 School’s Research Colloquia, an annual series of research lectures delivered by School and visiting
 researchers. The School’s Music Psychology Research Group (https://music-psych.leeds.ac.uk) is
 convened by PGRs who plan and coordinate the content of monthly meetings that are also attended
 by staff. PGRs from the School benefit from Faculty Employability training and in 2019 won a Faculty
 Interdisciplinary Research Support Award to run a workshop on peer review.

 Music PGRs attend major conferences (e.g. Biennial Conference on Baroque Music (2016, 2018);
 International Conference on Music Perception and Cognition (2018)) as well as organising events
 with the support of staff (e.g. RMA Study Day Music and Mathematics (2014); RMA Study Day
 Amateur Music-Making in the British Provinces (2014); RMA Study Day (Per)Forming Art 2015:
 Performance as Research in Contemporary Artworks (2015); RMA Study Day Exploring Xenakis
 Symposium (2016); and Cripping the Muse (2018)). Some of these events have led to publications

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (see those by Halay and Bekova below). £150 per full-time year is available to PGRs to support
 research activity with a further £100 for delivering papers at an international conference. Such
 support has helped enable PGRs to publish in refereed journals and edited books during their
 candidature (e.g. Halay (ed.), (Per)Forming Art: Performance as Research in Contemporary Artworks
 (Cambridge Scholars Press, 2016); Bekova (ed.), Exploring Xenakis: Performance, Practice,
 Philosophy (Vernon Press, 2019), Addison, ‘William Shield’s Favourite Songs, 1775’, in Music in
 North-East England, 1500–1800 (Boydell, 2020)).

 Equality and diversity
 The School promotes equality of opportunity for all PGRs and research staff. Training, support,
 research funding and leave opportunities are available according to transparent criteria. Part-time
 researchers share the same access to research support as full-time researchers (i.e. research leave,
 internal research funding, etc.) and the School observes both the Fixed-Term Employee and Part-
 Time Worker Regulations. In keeping with institutional policy, the School’s staffing, appointment and
 promotions data contribute to the monitoring of Equal Opportunities and relevant panels and
 committees include representation from outside the School and observe the University’s well-
 established policies. Promotion criteria relating to research are shared across the institution, following
 consultation on local priorities, and make clear accommodations in relation to part-time staff, caring
 responsibilities, disability and special circumstances. The School supports flexible and remote
 working in negotiation with the Head of School and institutional HR. A significant increase in remote
 working required by the response to COVID-19 has been supported by providing IT and working
 environment equipment in response to staff requests. Support for travel, conference attendance and
 other research activity is available to all researchers through the School research fund and additional
 support for international activity is provided through the Faculty’s international conference fund and
 research mobility fund.

 There has been an improvement in gender balance in staffing since the last assessment period
 measured against FTE researchers submitting outputs (2014: 13% female; 2020: 19% female).
 During the current period the School promoted its first female professor, who is also the first female
 head of school (Burland). Through mentoring and AAMs the School encourages researchers to
 participate in the University’s programmes to support female staff including the Women Rising,
 Springboard and Aurora schemes. We have achieved good gender balance amongst PGRs earning
 doctorates in the assessment period (25 female; 22 male); these candidates represent thirteen
 nationalities.

 The School follows the University’s REF Code of Practice. Identification of outputs to be considered
 for submission has taken place through AAMs and conversations with the DoRI who is also UoA
 lead. The primary criteria for selection of outputs has been quality of research with assessments
 based on internal and external scrutiny. This has followed the University’s Code (especially Part 4:
 Selection of Outputs). All staff have been invited to declare confidentially circumstances affecting
 their ability to research productively over the assessment period, and any such circumstances have
 been considered by the University’s Equality and Inclusion Team as described in the Code.

 Staff wellbeing (including the University’s Staff Wellbeing Survey) is considered within the School’s
 Senior Management Team, in full School Committees and in the triannual School Staff Development
 Forum. The School accommodates researchers with disability or long-term illness through relevant
 adaptation of the working environment (both physical and in terms of working time and conditions)
 with guidance from the University’s Human Resources team. A flexible approach to workload is taken

                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in discussion with researchers returning from extended periods of leave. PGR wellbeing is monitored
 through supervisors, the DPGRS and by addressing any issues that come to light in the annual
 Postgraduate Researcher Experience Survey.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 The total value of grant income in the assessment period exceeds £3.3 million, an achievement
 stemming from the School’s focus on large-scale projects, diversifying grant capture, embedding
 impact and expanding partnerships. As demonstrated in Section 1, these grants have led to
 significant research outputs and impact. Grant successes include The Operas of Thomas Adés (PI
 Venn, AHRC, £108,306), The Professional Career and Output of Trevor Jones (PI Cooper, CI
 Sapiro, AHRC, £466,856); Musical Leisure: Exploring Identities at Work and Play (PI Burland, BA,
 £3,080); HAfM (PI Greasley AHRC, £179,399); John Cage and the Concert for Piano and Orchestra
 (CI Iddon, AHRC, £233,972); Hugh Davies: Electronic Music Innovator (PI Mooney, AHRC,
 £107,381); Instrumentalizing Electronic Sound 1945–75 (Mooney, BA, £9,075) PtJA (PI Muir,
 AHRC, £867,400); Archival Connections: Relating Creative and Performing Practice in Early
 Broadway Musical-Theatre Works (PI Sapiro, BA, £9,980); The Garden of Forking Paths (PI
 McLaughlin, AHRC, £200,072); German Operetta in London and New York, 1907–1939: Cultural
 Transfer and Transformation (PI Scott, ERC, €1,061,762).

 Through AAMs a half-day per week is allocated to researchers for the preparation of funding bids, on
 top of statutory research time in workload modelling. AAMs encourage researchers to build long-term
 research plans (see Section 1) and to consider how, and which grant schemes may enable this work.
 Research proposals and grant applications are shared in development stages within research
 clusters and with colleagues with a history of grant success. School researchers engage with LAHRI
 grant-writing workshops; peer reading and examples of good practice are provided by the School and
 Faculty. Likewise, researchers benefit from School and Faculty Impact Support Officers and
 workshops on impact generation offered regularly through the LAHRI and OD&PL. Researchers also
 draw on institutional knowledge within the Cultural Institute in the development of partnerships, and
 on RIS and the Faculty Research Office (FRO, see Infrastructure) for financial and administrative
 advice.

 Infrastructure
 Our activities intersect with research throughout the Faculty and are supported by the LAHRI, peer-
 review, and sharing of best practice. A Faculty Research and Innovation Committee meets monthly
 as part of the University’s deliberative structures, feeding business to and from the SRIC, facilitating
 discussions on strategic and operational matters. The School considers the balance between
 scholarly and operational priorities through the SRIC and the School Management Committee.
 Annual planning, led by the Faculty and University, focuses on strategy and investment, including
 monitoring of research performance, and feeds into an Integrated Planning Exercise, agreed
 between School and Faculty and subsequently presented to University senior management.

 Pitches (0.2 FTE Impact Support Officer) takes the same role in the School of Performance and
 Cultural Industries (0.2 FTE) and in the School of English (0.5 FTE) and is able to share and develop
 best practice and broker interdisciplinary peer-review. The School works with the Faculty’s full-time
 Impact Officer (recruited 2017) and connects impact strategy with Faculty initiatives (through the
 Faculty Impact Committee). Through these means our impact strategy has been fully embedded
 within that of the Faculty’s over the assessment period.


                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Faculty’s research leave scheme augments that of the School’s. Both recognize grant writing
 and impact alongside traditional research outputs as activity for which leave is offered. The Faculty
 also provides funding for delivering papers at international conferences through the Faculty
 International Conference Fund, and for activity targeted at the development of international research
 collaborations through the International Research Mobility Scheme (funding 7 and 4 School
 researchers respectively since 2016).

 Interaction with the LAHRI and the University’s Cultural Institute has been crucial to executing our
 research strategies. The LAHRI creates opportunities for collaborative and interdisciplinary work by
 supporting the development of emerging research projects, providing a context for creative scholarly
 discussions, and helping with winning and running successful research bids (e.g. McLaughlin’s and
 Venn’s AHRC Fellowships). The Cultural Institute brings together University researchers with
 professionals and organizations from the creative sector in order to foster innovative research
 collaborations. It brokers conversations between academics and external partners, strengthening
 existing partnerships and acting as a catalyst for new ones. A programme of creative labs,
 workshops, awards and prizes helps to nurture these connections. For Music, the Institute’s Ignite
 grant scheme (bids of £500–2000) supporting the development of interdisciplinary research
 partnerships with external organizations (e.g., National Science and Media Museum, North Yorkshire
 Music Therapy Centre; see also Section 1) with a focus on impact has been particularly important.
 Practice-led research is significant aspect of the School’s and the Faculty’s work; it is, in part,
 supported through the Centre for Practice Research in the Arts (CePRA), co-directed by McLaughlin
 and Stefani who have expanded its role through interaction with the larger number of schools in the
 new Faculty, where its sits within the LAHRI.

 The FRO provides extensive support for grant activity, directing researchers to appropriate schemes,
 and offering detailed advice on budgeting, technical reports, staff costs and recruitment. Researchers
 review budgets and progress on active grants with the FRO and Pro-Dean for Research and
 Innovation (PDRI) as part of a biannual grant ‘health-check’. The FRO has pre- and post-award
 teams, with a Research Manager reporting to the Faculty Finance Manager and PDRI. The RIS
 monitors all institutional research and provides a consistent framework for ethical considerations and
 relationships with external partners. An institutional online system for modelling and managing
 research grants from conception to final report (KRISTAL) integrates all associated online systems,
 data and processes (e.g. ethical approval), and enhances academics’ communication with the FRO.

 Music engages actively with the White Rose Consortium, a strategic partnership between the
 Universities of Leeds, York and Sheffield. Many School outputs receive OA publication through the
 Consortium’s research depository: White Rose Research Online. The School attracts WRoCAH
 doctoral scholarships and participates in WRoCAH network grants (Bailes and Windsor, Expressive
 Ensemble Performance; Mooney, Electronic Soundscapes).

 Facilities
 A diverse range of high-quality facilities are housed in purpose-built premises, attached to the historic
 Clothworkers’ Centenary Concert Hall (CCCH). Strategic development of the CCCH and its Foyer
 over the assessment period has included the installation of audio-visual capture (Vimeo-Livestream)
 to enable streaming of concerts and conferences. CCCH is the venue for the University’s
 International Concert Series administered by the School. It regularly features performances relating
 to staff and PGR research. Many of these performances are freely available and archived through

                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Livestream. The School houses a unique collection of materials from the film-score production
 process donated by composers Trevor Jones (source material for Cooper and Sapiro’s AHRC grant)
 and Michael Nyman. The University Library has exceptional music holdings. Purchasing is monitored
 by the School (via SRIC), ensuring that research needs are represented. The Library’s Special
 Collections houses important collections of early music prints and manuscripts, including autographs
 of Croft, Dibdin, Mendelssohn and others from the Freemantle Collection (explored in White’s 2019
 exhibition in the Library’s new Treasures of the Brotherton Gallery), the Fiske-Platt Collection
 (c.1,500 prints and manuscripts, mainly of English opera, song and instrumental music 1700–1850);
 and the Priestley Collection (c.100 prints of early nineteenth-century church music). The University’s
 DARE partnership facilitated Opera North depositing its archives in the Library’s Special Collections.
 Likewise, the University’s role as principal partner with the Leeds International Piano Competition
 (LIPC) has led to the acquisition of the Dame Fanny Waterman Archive. Both archives provide a
 platform for future research by researchers within and without the School. The Library’s physical
 facilities include the new Laidlaw Library (completed 2015) and the refurbished Edward Boyle Library
 (completed 2017, including a PGR Research Hub) in addition to the Brotherton Library. Together
 they house a dedicated music collection, with extensive electronic resources. In December 2017 the
 School gained All-Steinway Status with the delivery of 27 Steinway pianos, a development that
 helped facilitate the formal partnership with the LIPC. Other musical instruments include: Goetze and
 Gwynn chamber organ, harpsichords (2), virginal, nineteenth-century grand pianos by Erard (2) and
 Broadwood, Adlam-Burnett Viennese-type fortepiano, early orchestral instruments, Bass flute, and
 Bass clarinet (purchased in 2018 to support staff and PGR composition). The School houses two
 ProTools/Logic Pro X 32-track digital recording studios; a 24-track digital recording studio; electronic
 composition suite; music psychology laboratory with multimedia recording and analysis equipment,
 Disklavier and other technology; two recently refurbished postgraduate iMac clusters with specialist
 audio and data analysis software.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration
 As evinced in Section 1, the School’s commitment to collaboration underpins the vitality and
 sustainability of our research activity. Collaboration has aided the development of the quality of our
 research, has widened its impact, and has strengthened our applications for research funding. Our
 collaborations are arranged through a variety of means and range from individual scholars to
 extended scholarly networks, and to external partnerships outside of HEIs. Scott and Burland
 worked with the M&S Company Archive (housed at the University) on the project Stories from M&S
 Sheet Music: Leeds Piano Heritage, which also engaged the LIPC. The Cultural Institute supports
 School collaborations through Ignite funding and Creative Labs (pairing creative professionals with
 researchers from the University), which have brought collaborators beyond the Institute’s core
 partners. AHRC grants (Cooper, Greasley, Iddon, Muir, Sapiro, Venn), WRoCAH Network grants
 (Bailes, Mooney, Windsor), and a Royal Society of Edinburgh network grant (Bailes, Greasley,
 Iddon, Scott) have supported collaboration with academics at other institutions and non-HEI
 partners. Faculty Research Mobility Grants and exchange programmes (Erraught, McLaughlin,
 Muir, Payne, Venn) have supported developing partnerships (Universities of Delhi, Hong Kong,
 Stellenbosch, Utrecht). Researchers have developed bespoke networks through conference
 attendance, publication, and other research activity. Indicative collaborations and resulting impacts
 and outputs, articulated through our clusters follow below.

 In Music, Science, and Technology, Greasley has worked with 36 NHS trusts through HAfM and
 has engaged with audiologists and the hearing impaired (see ICS2). In the field of Music and


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wellbeing, Bailes and Burland have established a partnership with North Yorkshire Music Therapy
 Centre on the project Mapping a Music Therapeutic Landscape in Rural Communities and with
 Skiddle (https://www.skiddle.com/) to investigate the wellbeing associated with attending music
 events. Burland’s DARE residency at Opera North investigates the nature and impact of a
 professional career in music. Collaboration with external researchers has resulted in a large corpus
 of joint-authored publications including journal articles by Bailes, D’Amario (York), Daffern (York) in
 Journal of Voice, Frontiers in Psychology and Logopedics Phoniatrics Vocology, by Bailes and
 Presicce (Hull) in Psychomusicology, by Bailes and Dean (Western Sydney University) in Journal of
 New Music Research, Music Perception, and Psychology of Music; Burland, Hill (York, St. John),
 King (Hull), and Pitts (Sheffield) Psychology of Music; Greasley, Chung and Hu, Psychology of
 Music. Co-edited journal issues include: Organised Sound, Mooney, Schampaert (PGR) and Boon
 (Science Museum). Co-edited books include Coughing and Clapping: Investigating Audience
 Experience (Burland and Pitts (Sheffield)). Book chapters have been produced by Greasley and
 Lamont (Keele), by Greasley, Lamont and Sloboda (Guildhall) and by Windsor and Bisesi (Institut
 Pasteur) in The Oxford Handbook of Music Psychology; Payne and Schuiling (Utrecht) have
 collaborated on a co-authored chapter.

 In Making Music, Stefani led community-based workshops for synthesizer ensemble in the Fuse art
 space in Bradford, followed by a public performance at The Tetley contemporary art space in Leeds
 in 2016. Collaborative partnerships are central to the compositional work of Iddon (Jack Adler-
 McKean) McLaughlin (Zubin Kanga), Spencer (Ian Pace), and Thurley (Barbara Konrad). All four
 have collaborated with the clarinettist Roche who is a partner in McLaughlin’s The Garden of
 Forking Paths with Sharp (Open University) and the institutional partner, the Royal Northern College
 of Music.

 As part of Music as Culture partnerships with national and international organizations, including the
 British Library, were a hallmark of PtJA. The five festivals (Australia, Czech Republic, South Africa,
 United Kingdom and United State) run through the project attracted combined audiences of over 7.5k
 and involved partnerships with the Universities of Sydney, Wisconsin and York. John Cage and the
 Concert for Piano and Orchestra was a collaboration with Thomas (Huddersfield) and led to joint-
 authored publications (Iddon, Payne and Thomas; Iddon and Thomas; Payne and Thomas). Scott
 and Allis have developed a partnership with Paul Watt (Monash, Australia) leading to three co-edited
 books: Cheap Print and Popular Song in the Nineteenth Century (Scott and Watt, 2017), The
 Symphonic Poem in Britain 1850–1950 (Allis and Watt, 2020) and The Oxford Handbook of Music
 and Intellectual Culture in the Nineteenth Century (Allis, Watt, Collins (University of Western
 Australia), 2020). The latter originated in a conference convened by the co-editors, Music Literature,
 Historiography and Aesthetics, IMR University of London (17-18/07/2014). Scott’s collaboration with
 the Sibelius Academy, Helsinki has led to co-edited books Confronting the National in the Musical
 Past (with Kelly (Edinburgh) and Mantere (Helsinki), 2018) and Music History and Cosmopolitanism
 (with Belina and Kilpiö (Helsinki), 2019). Other collaborative research publications include co-edited
 books Lady Gaga and Popular Music: Performing Gender, Fashion and Culture (Iddon and Marshall
 (UC Cork)); Musical Exchange between Britain and Europe 1500–1800 (White and Cunningham
 (Bangor)); and a special edition of The Journal of Film Music (Sapiro, Anderson (Maynooth)).

 Contributions to the discipline and research base
 Our researchers take leadership roles and shape the practices and policies of the sub-disciplines
 within the field of music. Since 2014 our researchers have held editorial positions in leading journals
 and societies: Allis, Journal of Victorian Culture, Nineteen: Interdisciplinary Studies in the Long

                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nineteenth Century; Bailes, Music Perception, Musicae Scientiae; Burland, Musicae Scientiae,
 British Journal of Music Education; Payne, Music and Science; Scott, The Victorian Web, Venn,
 Music Analysis; White, editorial board of the Purcell Society. They contribute to a range of research
 organisations as reviewers and consultants: The Research Council of Norway, and the European
 Commission (Bailes); jury membership for Staubach Fellowships at the Darmstadt New Music
 Courses (Iddon), Chair of the Schubert Institute UK (McClelland); team member on Romantic
 National Song Network, and Music in Finnish Cities (Scott). McLaughlin is the coordinator of the
 RMA Practice Research Study Group and has contributed example projects to the Practice Research
 Advisory Group, UK.

 Scholarly awards signal recognition of our research contributions: Allis won the C.B. Oldman prize of
 the International Association of Music Libraries, Archives and Documentation Centres (2018) and
 was runner up for the Music & Letters Westrup Prize; Greasley was nominated for the AHRC Health
 Humanities Medal Inspiration Award. Iddon was winner of the ‘Chamber’ category (2014) and
 shortlisted (2016) in the ‘Solo/Duo’ category in the British Composers Awards. Scott was awarded an
 honorary doctorate by the Sibelius Academy, Helsinki (2018). Thurley was winner of the Darmstadt
 Kranichsteiner Musikpreis (2018).

 Our researchers hold visiting appointments at a number of institutions: Allis, Adjunct Senior
 Research Fellow (Monash); Iddon, Faculty member (Darmstadt New Music Courses); Mooney,
 Science Museum Group Research Associate; Scott, Adjunct Senior Research Fellow (Monash),
 Hartley Visiting Professor (Southampton). School researchers have given 67 invited lectures
 (including seven keynotes) in Australia, Austria, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Spain,
 the US and the UK. They have acted as external examiners for research degrees in 1) the UK:
 Bangor, Bath Spa, Birmingham Conservatoire, Cambridge, Canterbury, City, Durham, Edinburgh,
 Goldsmiths, Huddersfield, Keele, Nottingham, Manchester Metropolitan, Royal Northern and Surrey;
 and 2) abroad: Australia: Monash, Newcastle, Sydney Conservatorium, University of New South
 Wales; University of Victoria, Canada; Geneva, New York University; Odeion School of Music, SA;
 Oslo; Otago, NZ. Our PGRs have advanced to positions in HE and in the arts sector: Thurley,
 Strickson, Belinfante (U. of Leeds), Morrison (U. of Chester); Roberts, Head of Music, Benslow Music
 Trust; French, presenter on BBC Radio 3 and author of Sir Henry Wood: Champion of J. S. Bach
 (Boydell, 2019).

 International conferences hosted by the School have provided important support for the Music
 discipline and have engaged many non-academic partners. These have included the RMA 50th
 Annual Conference in parallel with Music for Audio-Visual Media (4–6/09/2014); and Song, Stage
 and Screen XIV (26–29/06/2019). Muir engaged the Jewish Musical Institute with Continuities and
 Ruptures: Artistic Responses to Jewish Migration, Internment and Exile in the Long Twentieth
 Century (6–8/07/2014) and Magnified & Sanctified: The Music of Jewish Prayer. Greasley’s research
 engaged British Audio Research Network, Music for Audio-Visual Media II (20–22/06/2016); NHS,
 Help Musicians UK, Ewing Foundation for Deaf Children, 10 companies in the hearing impairment
 sector, Hearing Aids for Music (14–15/09/2017). Scott’s ERC grant funded Gaiety, Glitz and
 Glamour, or Dispirited Historical Dregs? A Re-evaluation of Operetta (10–12/01/2019); Iddon’s
 AHRC grant funded Performing Indeterminacy (30/06–02/07/2017). Other research specialisms have
 driven conferences, sometimes with external partners: Musica Britannica, RMA, Critical Music Editing
 Study Day: Methodology, Sources, Repertoire, 1600–1900 (4/10/2014); WUN, Performing Brahms in
 the Twenty-first Century (30/06–2/07/2015); Reconceiving Bartok’s Music (03/16/2016); SEMPRE:
 Collaborative approaches to music and wellbeing research (9–10/11/2018); BBC History and

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heritage Music 625: The Performance of Music on Television, c.1955-85 (7–9/06/2019).
 Collaborative work has supported conferences at other locations, including Muir, Dobbs (Wisconsin-
 Madison), Fligg (RNCM), Ridgewell (British Library), The Future of the Archive: Performing the
 Jewish Archive and Beyond (14–16/01/2018), and Venn, The Operas of Thomas Adès, Senate
 House, London (24–25/04/2017)).




                                                                                            Page 15
