Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 11 – Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Computing and Informatics at Edinburgh Napier University (ENU) comprises 62 Category A
 staff. 41 (66.1%) are significantly responsible for research (SRR) according to our Code of
 Practice, and therefore included in our REF submission. 61 of these staff are members of the
 School of Computing (SoC).

 The vision of the School is:

        To deliver research and teaching in computer science that improves lives in the UK and
        beyond. Improvements range from technology with impact in national, economic and
        personal security; applying artificial intelligence to benefit the environment; bringing
        technology into homes and spaces to improve wellbeing; the use of information for
        societal development; and innovation in learning approaches to promote aspiration and
        inclusion.

 Structure
 As noted in REF5a, in 2015 a University-wide decision was made to integrate research institutes
 within School structures. This offered an opportunity to re-organise research within the School of
 Computing in a way that reflected areas of strength and critical mass.

 Four clusters were formed as detailed below, each led or co-led by a senior academic who
 provides over-arching vision and strategic direction. Each cluster provides opportunity for cross-
 collaboration on a broad range of topics, while specialism subgroups within each cluster meet on
 a weekly basis. A School Head of Research (currently Prof. Paechter) provides overall strategic
 direction for the School’s Research. The clusters are:

       Cyber Security and Cryptography (eight staff SRR)
       Internet of Things (IoT) and Smart Systems (nine staff SRR)
       Applied Artificial Intelligence (AI) & Data Science (15 staff SRR)
       Creative and Social Informatics (13 staff SRR – five submitted under UoA34)
 The Cyber Security and Cryptography Cluster (Prof Buchanan) focuses on citizen-centric
 systems such as digital health. The Cyber Systems and Cryptography subgroup undertakes
 research around the creation, analysis and investigation of information systems which respect
 ownership, privacy, consent and governance. There is considerable overlap with the Applied
 AI/DS cluster in incorporating privacy-preserving and adversarial AI methods into these
 domains.

 The IoT and Smart Systems Cluster (Prof Al-Dubai and Prof Liu) focuses on the design of
 cognitive and integrated solutions for smart connected spaces from interdisciplinary IoT and
 software engineering perspectives. It comprises two interlinked groups: the IoT and Future
 Networks Group (Al-Dubai), focusing on IoT and networking innovation across trusted
 infrastructures, and the Intelligence-Driven Software Engineering Group (Liu), that develops
 novel intelligent approaches, models and tools for new IoT-based smart systems.

 Within the Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Cluster (Prof Hart and Prof Hussain),
 there are two research groups. The Nature-Inspired Intelligent Systems group (Hart) applies
 methods inspired by evolutionary and social systems in optimisation and robotics domains and
 to build socio-technical systems. The Data-Science group (Hussain) aims to advance and
 integrate cross-disciplinary, problem-driven research across Data Science and AI, combining

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 theory and practice. Areas of particular focus are text analysis and natural language generation,
 and visualisation, with an emphasis on explainability.

 The Creative and Social Informatics Cluster (Prof Hall and Dr Smyth) has two groups. The
 Interaction Design Group (Smyth) focuses on the design of technology to create novel products,
 services and experiences. The Centre for Social Informatics (Hall) provides critical perspectives
 on sociotechnical interactions across a range of subject areas. As this group conducts
 interdisciplinary work connecting technology with social-science, the majority of its staff are
 returned under UoA34, although many of the funded projects and PhD supervisions within the
 group are collaborations with staff submitted under UoA11.

 Additionally, the new research Centre for Computing Education (Prof Smith) was formed
 during this period. This is a developing area that builds on teaching excellence in the school to
 focus on student placements, work-based learning, digital skills development and educational
 models in the context of widening participation and inclusion (one person is SRR).

 A bi-weekly meeting of all Heads of Research groups, chaired by the Head of Research,
 ensures a collegiate atmosphere, facilitating inter-group collaborations. This is complemented by
 an annual School Research Conference, and an all-hands School Research meeting each
 January.

 Weekly research-group meetings bring together PhD students, post-doctoral researchers and
 staff. We encourage cross-attendance of staff to promote inter-disciplinary work. The
 effectiveness of these meetings in fostering a sense of belonging and collaborative approach to
 working was clearly demonstrated during COVID-19, when meetings became virtual and
 provided an important focal point during the week. We firmly believe that this enabled us to
 continue to produce excellent research outputs and win funding throughout this period.

 Strategy 2014-2020
 Both the University Strategy 2020 (see REF5a) and our strategy in 2014 have set the agenda
 during the REF period. In 2014, we stated that we aimed to:

       increase the numbers of our PhD students
       grow our research income by working with SMEs and obtaining commercial income
       capitalise on key opportunities to grow research strengths

 These aims have been achieved.

 PhD students: we have successfully grown our PhD cohort. For REF 2014 we reported 20 PhD
 completions. 42 are returned for REF2021, i.e. a 100% increase.

 Research income: external income for the previous period was £4,735,835 over five years. We
 have considerably exceeded this with a total income of £6,357,927 (an increase of 34.25%). We
 highlight significant recent successes in winning significant (>£100K) funding. A total of £4.5M in
 new project funding (including EPSRC/EU awards) has been won in 2020 and early 2021, but
 does not have spend in the period (3 projects had delayed starts due to COVID-19).

 The areas of research which we identified for expansion in 2014 were Digital Health, Urban
 Interaction Design, Autonomous and Adaptive Computing and Data Analytics.

 In Digital Health, the School has:

       Obtained a £3.2 million EPSRC programme grant (Hussain) under the Transformative
        Healthcare Technologies 2050 Call on cognitively-inspired 5G-IoT enabled, multi-modal
        Hearing Aids (COG-MHEAR, start March 2021, £1.3M).
       Led a Health Blockchain project (Buchanan), funded by Data Lab and Spiritus
        Development Limited (2017-2019, £122K). The partnership which included NHS National

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Services Scotland successfully delivered trusted asset tracking using blockchain
        methods.
       Won a £86K DHI grant (Buchanan, 2018-21) “Next Generation Connectivity within
        Health and Well-being”, to evaluate and demonstrate the potential of 5G connectivity
        within health care.
       Won a £215K DHI grant (Buchanan, 2018-20) to build a trust, governance and consent
        framework for health and social care applications, and develop new licencing models for
        companies to provide and consume health and social services.
       Appointed 3 ECAs (Pitropakis, McKeown, Tan).
 In Urban Interaction Design, the School has:

       Led one and participated in two EU projects (UrbanIxD project (FET Open); MAZI project
        (EU CAPSSI); SpeculativeEDU (Erasmus+)).
       Won a Creative Informatics project (ENU, University of Edinburgh, CodeBase and
        Creative Edinburgh) (£7.5M total, £1.3 million to Napier) through the AHRC Creative
        Industries Cluster Programme.
       Appointed 2 ECAs (Sobolewska, McGowan).
 This research has been supported by the creation of two new labs. The Sensorium focuses on
 biometric data for evaluation and the E11 Studio specialises in digital prototyping and the role of
 data in the creative industries.

 In Autonomous and Adaptive computing, the School has:

       Invested in a swarm-robotics laboratory equipped with a swarm of 50 heterogeneous
        robots, and two research assistants to run it. This investment was fundamental in later
        securing a £366K 4-year EPSRC grant on robotics (Hart, 2019).
       Invested in 2 NAO robots, boosting our work in human-robot interaction and instrumental
        in an ECA (Gkatzia) securing a £280K EPSRC New-Investigator award.
       Won a £380K EPSRC project called “Keep Learning” in December 2020 (Hart).
       Appointed 1 ECA (Steyven).
 In Data Analytics, the School has:

       Appointed two senior professors bringing expertise in privacy-preserving and explainable
        machine-learning, with a focus on health applications (Hussain, 2018) and theoretical
        data-science (Liotta, 2019).
       Appointed two ECAs; Methven (data-science and visualisation), and Giuffrida (machine
        learning and computer-vision).
       Won significant funding, including; £416K through the EPSRC Responsible NLP for
        Intelligent Interfaces Call (Gkatzia, Hussian), ranked 1/19 at panel, £232K from a
        Government funded project (Hussain) to develop a CovidDashboard through analysis of
        social-media, and Methven (partnering with Heriot-Watt) on Graphical Explainable AI
        (EPSRC, £49K). A further 3 KTP projects were awarded in the areas of data-analytics
        and visualisation with Standard Life, Zonefox (Kennedy) and Verint (Hart).
 In addition, in IoT and Smart Systems the School has:

       Won a major EU award for a project named CAROUSEL (Mitchell, Koniaris, Kennedy)
        (start March 2021), using Augmented Reality (AR) and Artificial Intelligence (AI)
        technologies to improve experience and social interaction in live virtual/hybrid events.
       Won a MSCA Horizon 2020 grant (2016-2018), CAR (Liu) to develop context-active,
        resilient cyber-physical systems.
       Established worldwide research networks through international exchange programmes
        funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Liu), by chairing and delivering keynotes at
        international conferences, and through journal editorships.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Appointed 5 ECAs (Ahmed, Chrysoulas, Koniaris, Jaroucheh, Ghaleb).
 Enabling Impact
 The majority of the research undertaken in the School is in areas where the route to impact can
 be clearly articulated, although some of our work is at a foundational level, where impact will
 only be achieved in a longer timeframe. All areas of research identify potential partners in the
 private, public and third sectors, supported by RIE (see REF5a) through a dedicated Innovation
 Manager and a School appointed Enterprise lead. This includes supporting staff to:

       Use Scottish Funding Council (SFC) Innovation Vouchers to fund initial collaborations
        with companies (58 in total), with these providing a route to additional funding (e.g. follow
        up contract research with Deiseal Ltd).
       Work with the SFC Innovation Centres (DataLab; Censis, DHI) in order to collaborate on
        projects with local companies, ranging from SMEs to large providers (e.g. Datalab
        (Lothian Buses); CENSIS (Key Technologies); DHI (Glimpse Ltd)).
       Attend events such as the annual SICSA Demo-Fest/EiE in order to connect with
        potential partners (e.g. this led to a KTP with Verint (Hart)).
       Attend and run industry-focused events such as the Cyber Breakfasts hosted at ENU by
        the Cyber Academy, which invite leaders from industry and academia.
       Use the SFC internal GCRF funding scheme to support projects in low and middle-
        income countries. Examples include research on anti-phishing architectures with the
        Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta in Nigeria and a feasibility study to acquire
        and analyse images of plants from crops in Ethiopia with the use of machine learning
        algorithms (Giuffrida).
       Develop Knowledge Transfer Partnerships. 10 were awarded during the REF period in
        areas that include Data-Science, Visualisation, Cybersecurity and Interaction Design,
        collaborating with companies that range from multi-nationals (e.g. Standard Life/Verint) to
        local companies (e.g. DeltaDNA).
       Host knowledge exchange focused conferences, e.g. the International Conference for
        Big Data in Cybersecurity.

 The effectiveness of our approach is further demonstrated by the success of the three spin-out
 companies that have resulted from our research in Cybersecurity (ZoneFox, Symphonic and
 CyanForensics), and the recent spin-out 3Finery from our research in augmented-reality. In
 2018, ZoneFox was acquired by Fortinet for £28 million, and in 2020, Symphonic was acquired
 by Ping for $31 million, both delivering significant return to the institution. Cyan Forensics is
 currently working with Police Forces across the UK in time-critical Child Sexual Exploitation and
 Counter Terrorism cases, and has won several awards. 3Finery, arising from research
 conducted via an EU project, has already attracted over £150K in investment funding.

 We also continually build direct relationships with companies that can support and encourage
 impact from our research:

       We have provided physical space for companies to operate within the School in order to
        build collaborative relationships (e.g. SatisNET).
       Match-funding was provided by leading Blockchain company BlockPass to build an
        Advanced Blockchain Identity Lab within the School. The company also funded 2 PhD
        studentships.
       Datalab/Condatis have matched-funded a PhD studentship.
 We currently have one Professor (Buchanan) and two Associate Professors (Russell, Lawson)
 who were promoted via the University’s Enterprise pathway, recognising their contribution to
 working with industry and to knowledge transfer. We host a Royal Society Funded Entrepreneur
 in Residence (EiR) from 2021, with a remit to turn leading research and ideas into commercial
 impact and success. The EiR is Jamie Graves, who was once one of our PhD students, and for
 six years was CEO of the very successful ENU spinout ZoneFox.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Our success in delivering impact is recognised by considerable success in the Scottish
    Knowledge Exchange Awards. Our staff have twice won the Innovation of the Year award for
    their collaborations with external companies; in 2016 (Payfont, Buchanan/Lawson) and in 2019
    (HAS Technology, Buchanan/Smales/Lawson). In 2018, Buchanan was awarded the
    Outstanding Contribution to Knowledge Exchange award for engagements that contributed
    greatly to growing a thriving Scottish cyber security community, drove improvements in business
    resilience and incident response, and led to innovations in health and social care. Lawson was
    appointed at the SICSA Director of Knowledge Exchange (2016-2019), recognising our
    experience in engaging with companies.

    The School provides the necessary investment to ensure impact can be realised. One aspect of
    this is employing part-time Professors/Research Staff who hold significant posts in industry. For
    example, Mitchell, an employee at Disney and now Roblox, has been employed on a 20% FTE
    contract since 2013. This close collaboration has facilitated an impact case-study on pioneering
    breakthroughs in visual media production. Mitchell also played a key role in a consortium that
    was successful in obtaining a Marie-Curie-Sklodowska ITN (DISTRO), and a FET Proactive
    project CAROUSEL awarded in late 2020. The work conducted via DISTRO led to proof-of-
    concept funding (InnovateUK, Mitchell in collaboration with PhD student), resulting in a spin-out
    company 3Finery, launched in 2020. This has since won significant investment and has been
    widely reported in the media1. Mival’s research, which underpins a submitted impact case-study
    on Blended Spaces, led to him obtaining employment as a consultant in the User Design
    industry. The School facilitated Mival to move to a 0.2 FTE contract in order to continue to
    bridge the role between our research and industry and further develop impact.

    We support impact by covering the costs of patents arising from research. These patents have
    contributed to the impact reported in three of the submitted case-studies, each of which has led
    to the formation of a spin-out company: (1) Enabling Sensitive Personal Data to be Shared with
    Trust using Novel Digital Security Methods (CyanForensics); (2) Protecting Employees, Children
    and Sensitive Data using Innovative Approaches to Cyber Security (Symphonic); and (3) Visual
    Media Production (3Finery). The School later enabled the spin-outs to buy back these patents in
    order to progress their business. The same support is being provided to a new spin-out in 2021
    (Memcrypt) (Buchanan). Profits returned from spin-outs are re-invested within the School to
    facilitate further research (e.g. three new PhD studentships in Cyber-Security funded following
    the acquisition of ZoneFox).

    Our impact strategy includes physical space provided free of charge at the early stages of spin-
    out development or host investor meetings. This approach facilitated the two impact-case
    studies relating to trust and privacy. In relation to the Blended Spaces impact case-study,
    School funds were used to build dedicated laboratory spaces. An initial investment of £60,000 in
    hardware and software was provided in 2009 by the School for the creation of the ICE
    (Interactive Collaborative Environment), which served as a foundational bedrock for practical
    development work used to enable research and industry collaborations. A further investment of
    £30,000 by the School in 2016 enabled an upgrade to the space providing additional
    functionality. Joint investment from the University and School of £45,000 enabled the creation
    and installation of Lions' Gate Garden within the campus, which also forms part of the case-
    study.

    Interdisciplinary research
    To further interdisciplinary collaborations within the institution the School invests in an internship
    programme, which enables recruitment from our undergraduate student-body to research
    assistant positions to work on cross-school projects. Recent examples include collaborations
    with:



1
 https://www.scotsman.com/business/edinburgh-napier-spin-out-makes-objects-come-life-
augmented-reality-tech-3009297
                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The School of Engineering and the Built Environment, using machine-learning to
        determine the carbon-cost of buildings, integrated into a published plug-in on Google
        Sketchup (Hart).
       The School of Applied Sciences, where we developed a smart-phone app to support
        citizen-science data-collection for crab fishing in Brazil (Hart, Wells, Urquhart), and a
        tool to analyse the data. This work is submitted as an impact case-study in UoA3.
       The School of Health and Social Science, taking advantage of their hospital simulation to
        gather real-time sensor data in health-setting, integrated with a blockchain-
        based infrastructure (Buchanan).
 The Centre for Social Informatics is situated within our School and provides significant
 opportunity for cross-disciplinary work. Staff returned under UoA11 (Smith, Gkatzia) co-
 supervise PhDs funded by the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science, in conjunction with
 staff returned under UoA34. Gkatzia has secured a further award under this scheme for a
 studentship in 2021, co-supervised with the Business School. Hart is co-supervisor on a PhD
 studentship awarded in via the NERC funded SUPER Doctoral Training Programme in the
 School of Applied Sciences. Moradpoor jointly supervised a recently completed PhD student in
 the School of Engineering and the Built Environment.

 We are probably the only School of Computing in the UK to employ a glassmaker (Panneel) as
 a Research Fellow as part Smyth’s project on Creative Informatics (focusing on creating tools to
 monitor carbon impact in the craft sector). This project engages with the creative sector to
 develop the data driven skills necessary to create the next generation of products, services and
 experiences. Panneel is also working with British Council Nepal, Kathmandu University and
 Applied Arts Scotland as part of the countdown to the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26).

 We seek external opportunities to collaborate on interdisciplinary work, and outputs from these
 projects are included in our submission. Powers (2019) was awarded an interdisciplinary
 Fellowship from the Institute of Liberal Art and Sciences, Keele University to work on socio-
 technical approaches to balancing energy consumption in smart energy networks. Giuffrida
 conducts interdisciplinary research with plant biologists at the University of Edinburgh and
 Scotland Rural College, focusing on image analysis of crops. Hart has an ongoing collaboration
 with Forestry researchers from France and Japan, and represented the Computer Science field
 at an international workshop on Mathematical Modelling of Wind Damage to Forests (France,
 2015).

 Open Research
 Computer Science is a fast-moving subject and hence we recognise that Open Research is
 critical. All staff act in accordance with University Open Access policies described in Ref5a. In
 addition, we encourage:

       Open access to code through repositories such as GitHub. Staff are encouraged to
        publish links to repositories for outputs or make use of journal specific repositories for
        supplementary material.
       Publication of datasets to promote open-research. Data is stored in the University
        managed Data Repository with a DOI.
       Use of research-focused platforms such as ResearchGate and Kudos to share
        publications and data, given the fast publication of computer science papers in
        conferences.
       Public engagement activities to disseminate research results.
 To support this, these policies are disseminated widely through School committees and research
 groups. All proposals are peer-reviewed to ensure that a clear open-access strategy is
 embedded from the outset.

 We support a culture of research integrity, guided by the institution policies described in REF5a.
 Responsibility is devolved to the School Research Integrity Committee (supported by a cross-

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 school group), and provides ethical approval for all project proposals/data-collection. The role
 holder reports quarterly to the University Research and Innovation Committee. Research
 Integrity is an integral part of the bespoke PhD training that we offer to our own PhD students in
 addition to institutional training. A bespoke Research Integrity & Ethics website has been put in
 place specifically targeted at SoC staff and Research Students.

 Future Strategy over next 5 years
 We start the new REF period in an excellent position having recently been successful in winning
 a number of major grants due to start in 2021. In line with the new University Strategy launched
 in 2021, and in particular the formalization of research entities (REF5a), we are currently in the
 process of formalising our research groups into five Research Centres; Centre for AI and Data-
 Science, Cyber-Security & Cryptography, Social and Creative Computing, IoT and Smart
 Systems Centre, and Computing Education Research. These roughly correspond to existing
 informal clusters and to the new education group outlined above. Centre proposals are currently
 going through an approval process at University level. Each Centre will have agreed research
 objectives regarding annual research deliverables. All staff, contract researchers and PhD
 students will align with a Centre.

 In line with the pillars described in REF5a that underpin the new strategy, our School Enterprise
 Lead will focus on innovation, working in tandem with the Innovation Hub to understand where
 research may lead to spin-out companies. The role-holder will work closely with the newly
 appointed RSE Enterprise Fellow.

 With regard to the people pillar of the new strategy (REF5a), we will benefit from University
 investment in three areas: IoT, CyberSecurity, and Machine-learning. A Professor, ECA and two
 studentships will be appointed in each area. Similar institutional investment in Health
 Technologies will also benefit the Unit, building on our recently awarded Programme Grant
 (EPSRC Transformative Healthcare Technologies for 2050). Further School investment in a new
 Professor of Human-Computer-Interaction will provide new leadership in Creative and Social
 Informatics in the area of design.

 We expect to increasingly focus on interdisciplinary research, facilitated by the new cross-
 university themes (REF5a). Across the five Centres, there is significant potential for collaborative
 working across all themes, exploiting our existing portfolio. We are currently investing in new
 infrastructure to create a Computational Sustainability Laboratory to act as a focal point for
 interdisciplinary work in cyber-physical sustainability/ IoT research.

 COVID-19 presented an opportunity to develop a new online seminar programme in which we
 invited world-class researchers from a variety of disciplines to discuss their research throughout
 the lockdown periods (with invitations extended to researchers from across Scotland). We intend
 to continue to operate this scheme when we return to campus-based operations, as a way to
 continue to engage with global cutting-edge research, enhancing both our culture and external
 networks.

 2. People

 Since 2014 our staffing strategy has been driven by our vision to increase the quality of
 research, and to grow existing areas of excellence in which we have critical mass. All new staff
 are expected to have a PhD and are recruited through a rigorous selection process that includes
 a research presentation. We ensure that research interests of potential staff are aligned with
 existing areas of strength, believing that research cannot be conducted in isolation. Since 2014,
 we have recruited 24 new staff who are returned in this REF (two Professors, with the majority
 initially appointed at lecturer level).

 95% of the 41 staff who are significantly responsible for research in UoA11 are on permanent
 contracts. The two staff on non-permanent contracts at the census date are now employed on


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 permanent contracts as ECAs. 32% of staff are ECA (lecturer, grade 6), 27% are lecturers
 (grade 6, non ECA at grade 7), 15% are Associate Professors, and 2% are research-staff. 24%
 are Professors. This represents a healthy pipeline of research-active staff to sustain future
 activity, particularly given that 32% of staff are ECA. Two of our staff initially appointed in the
 REF period as ECAs were promoted to Associate Professor in 2020.

 As noted in REF5a, staff wishing to pursue a research career are typically recruited onto the
 Research Pathway of the University Promotions Framework and are guaranteed at least 0.2
 FTE of protected research time in addition to time bought on funded projects. The School has a
 local policy of allocating an additional 0.1 FTE research allowance to new staff in their first year.
 Where external research work brings esteem and influence to the School (e.g. appointments to
 the SICSA research pool/UKRI activity/journal editorships) staff are given additional protected
 time. Where a person makes a specific request for additional research allocation to deliver
 beyond normal expectations (e.g., to lead a bid for a major project), up to an additional half a
 day a week of ENU funded research work is allocated on a temporary basis.

 The vast majority of staff (83%) who are SRR align with the Research pathway in the promotion
 framework. Three staff (7%) align with the Enterprise pathway in recognition of the significant
 industry-focused slant of their research, while the remaining 9% (four staff) align with the
 Learning and Teaching Pathway. Annual objectives and research-related development needs
 are agreed through the MyContribution process outlined in REF5A.

 The School is also committed to increasing the percentage of staff holding a PhD. Where
 appropriate staff are encouraged to undertake a PhD part-time. Two submitted staff
 (Sobolewska/McGowan) completed PhD’s by this route. Support for staff undertaking PhDs is
 provided in line with the University Policy in this area.

 All new researchers, whether postdoctoral or ECA, are allocated an experienced member of staff
 (often a research professor) as a mentor and are encouraged to form new internal
 collaborations. Mentoring in writing research proposals is provided through the mentor and the
 School Research Quality panel. School-funded PhD studentships are targeted to all new
 members of staff with directed adverts. Where possible, ECAs are appointed as additional
 supervisors on PhD supervision teams (9 of the 13 ECAs returned are currently members of one
 of more supervisory teams).

 All ECAs are strongly encouraged to apply for external funding, and specifically to UKRI
 new investigator schemes. Gkatzia (now Associate Professor) achieved this when appointed as
 an ECA. Postdoctoral researchers are integral members of research groups and are encouraged
 to supervise MSc dissertations. Methven obtained EPSRC funding in collaboration with Heriot-
 Watt. ECAs and postdoctoral researchers are supported to apply for funding as research co-
 investigators. Two ECAS have found success as Co-I's on EU Framework Programme grants
 awarded in 2020; Koniaris (CAROUSEL, £812K) and Chrsyoulas (GLASS, £190K). They are
 also encouraged to apply for centralised funding schemes discussed in REF5a. School-specific
 schemes that have been set up to specifically support our researchers are weekly “Write-Now
 workshops” and a series of “MasterClasses” organised by PhD students, bringing in external
 speakers to focus on soft skills specific to Computing not covered by the University’s centralised
 training programme.

 The School supports, where possible, requests by staff (at any level or on any contract) for
 periods of research leave where the member of staff presents a specific proposal with tangible
 objectives, for example, by condensing teaching allocation into a single semester.

 All overheads brought in from externally funded projects are allocated to the School budget to
 supplement the SFC Research Excellence Grant, to support staff research activities. We set
 aside funding to enable staff who have published papers in conferences but do not have external
 funding to attend conferences as this facilitates networking and development. These funds also
 enable purchasing of additional research equipment to support areas which are achieving

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact/publishing excellent research. ECRs obtaining first-grant funding are guaranteed an
 additional PhD student from school funds (e.g. Gkatzia), and where funding applications can be
 enhanced by additional PhD students we guarantee to provide this (e.g. three PhD students
 allocated to Hussain, Programme Grant starting 2021).

 Research students
 PhD students are recruited in line with existing areas of research. On average, we fully fund
 three new students each year, representing a significant portion of funding. 42 students have
 been awarded PhDs within the REF period, a significant increase on the 20 completions
 reported in REF2014, with 19 different staff acting as Director of Studies.

 We recognise the importance to research of the student body, and in the absence of being part
 of any CDTs, make considerable effort to grow our student body in other ways. All research
 active staff have the opportunity to have at least one permanent advert on FindAPhD to attract
 self-funding students. Completing students were funded via a variety of sources, including
 University 50th Anniversary scholarships (see REF5a), studentships via internal funding from
 overheads, EU Marie-Curie International Training Networks, and self-funding. We have a formal
 relationship with King Abdulaziz University in Saudi Arabia to jointly supervise students who are
 awarded degrees by ENU. We allocate local supervisors in Saudi and ensure the students have
 the required training while fees are reduced by 50%. Three students have graduated so far via
 this programme. We also have a joint agreement with the Technische Hochschule Mittelhessen,
 Germany. One student has completed and one is in progress.

 Looking forward, we have signed an agreement Hashemite University, Jordan, starting in
 2020 on the same model as described with Saudi Arabia. A further agreement with China Guang
 Xi University of Science and Technology, China, starting in 2020, is now in place, where
 students spend 18 months at ENU and the rest of the period in China. Two studentships were
 recently funded in the area of CyberSecurity by Blockpass.

 Working with industry we successfully bid for a Doctoral Training Centre with EIT Digital, which
 will start in April 2021 This has matched funding for up to 16 PhD studentships. Where industry
 provides funding towards a studentship, the School matches that funding in the same research
 area, e.g. we have matched funded a studentship in collaboration with the University of Oslo
 (CyberHunt – part of the IKTPLUSS program funded by the Research Council of
 Norway) around the sharing of threat hunting information within distributed ledgers, and a
 second via Data Labs/Condatis, relating to privacy-preserving behavioural analysis.

 We encourage KTP Associates to register for a research degree, providing a fee waiver (one
 current PhD student, one student graduated with MRes). Recognising that a position in industry
 is often more lucrative than a PhD scholarship for many Computer Science graduates, we
 provide fee-waivers to students who wish to study part-time while working. This also attracts
 those who have caring or similar responsibilities. We take advantage of being co-located with
 researchers from the Centre for Social Informatics, which had membership of the ESRC Scottish
 Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) from 2011-2017, and of the new Doctoral Training Partnership
 (DTP) from 2018, enabling UoA11 staff to co-supervise projects. In this period, two staff
 (Gkatzia, Smith) have taken advantage of this, with a further two projects awarded to start in
 2021 (Gkatzia, Smith, C., Smith, S.). Staff also collaborate in joint-supervision activity with
 other universities. Mitchell has co-supervised two PhD students at UCL, and one PhD and one
 MPhil thesis at Bath. Hart is currently jointly supervising a student at Imperial College London.

 In order to be inclusive in our selection of students for funded studentships, we recently updated
 our selection processes to move away from formal interviews towards a more collaborative
 experience, that explores the candidates research ideas with relevant colleagues in an informal
 and supportive setting. This moves the emphasis toward selecting based on what the students
 will be required to do, rather than on their interview style, which might be influenced by culture or
 neurodivergence.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhD supervision arrangements follow those outlined in the REF5a. 89% of students reported
 they are happy with supervisor contact (PRES.) We ensure that the individual student
 experience is an excellent one, monitored through panel chairs, student representatives, and our
 action plan in response to PRES. 89% reported in PRES that they have developed the ability to
 communicate to diverse audiences, 89% report they have established contacts and networks
 outside of the university, and 94% report that they have increased their confidence in their
 abilities to innovate and be creative.

 All students undertake a core programme of training offered centrally by the University. In
 addition, a series of Departmental Masterclasses with external speakers provides subject-
 specific training. During the period, we ran a series of fully funded three-day residential retreats
 with student organised activities, which we intend to reintroduce post-COVID-19. Two student-
 representatives take part in the School Research and Innovation Committee, ensuring a smooth
 working relationship between staff and students.

 Students take on developmental roles, such as Seminar Coordinator. Our students have been
 selected to participate in the organising committee of the annual SICSA PhD conference,
 providing valuable skills in team-working and conference organisation. Students also have the
 opportunity to undertake limited teaching duties for their own career development as graduate
 teaching assistants, and all PhD students are offered a specifically designed Associate Lecturer
 (PhD Student Experience) contract to facilitate this. Our students are also able to take
 advantage of the SICSA PhD Peer Support Network, a network of Support Volunteers across all
 Scottish Institutions, run by PhD students for PhD students, and supporting mental health.

 An annual School PhD conference is organised by the students themselves to showcase student
 work across all levels. The School has put in place mentoring and career support for students in
 their final year to ensure that all avenues for continuing the research have been explored, for
 example contributing to a funding application naming the student as the preferred researcher.

 The strength of our training and support is reflected in students winning awards at major
 conferences. Since 2014, our students have produced five Patents and received eight best
 paper awards at leading international IEEE/ACM Conferences, including IEEE IUCC 2015, IEEE
 SmartIoT 2019, IEEE FedCSIS and ACM MOMM 2014 and ACM GECCO 2019. Two of our
 students working on routing protocols contributed to the International standardisation in Internet
 of Things protocols (Ghaleb, Qasem) via the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). Our PhD
 students work has directly contributed to the spin-out of companies (CyanForensics, 3Finery,
 Memcrypt). They have also gone on to gain post-doctoral/academic positions in leading
 research institutions such as the University of St Andrews, University of Exeter and Heriot-Watt.
 Other students have gained employment with prestigious companies such as IBM, Dell Secure
 Works and China Mobile.

 Equality and diversity
 The School obtained Athena Swan Bronze award in 2017 and will apply to renew this. The
 School Inclusion Monitoring Committee (see REF5a) is responsible for monitoring E&D data,
 ensuring processes are followed and reasonable adjustments are put in place.

 In terms of gender profile of our submission, 15% of our total return (41 staff) is female which is
 consistent with typical profiles for this subject. This represents 43% of the eligible pool,
 compared to 73% of the eligible male pool being returned. This figure is slightly higher than the
 42% of eligible female staff returned at institution level, as reported in REF5a.

 67% of the six eligible staff identifying as Asian are returned, 100% (one person) of those
 identifying as Mixed, and 100% (5 people) of those identifying as Other. No Category A staff
 identify as Black. 100% of Category A staff who identify as bisexual/gay/lesbian are returned.
 Three out of four Category A staff who have declared a disability are included in the submission
 (75%). 78% of those identifying as Christian are returned; 82% of those with no-belief and 83%


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of those with other beliefs. 68% of Category A staff that are married are returned, with 80% of
 single.

 The age-profile of researchers within the School is as follows, reported as % of submitted staff.
 Age range 25-35 (12%), 35-45 (32%), 45-55 (39%), 55-65 (17%). This reflects the new
 emphasis on recruiting research-active staff in the earlier parts of the career over the period,
 while recognising the overall shape of the School is still influenced at the older end by a more
 teaching-centric focus prior to REF 2014. Close monitoring of diversity takes place at the
 Inclusion Monitoring Group which gives confidence that we reflect our stated E&D values. The
 data provides robust evidence that there is no discrimination against staff with protected
 characteristics being deemed SRR.

 SoC adopts the University maternity/paternity leave policies, and encourages flexible working
 patterns, particularly for those with caring responsibilities. Three staff have taken maternity leave
 during the REF Period, all returned as SRR. We support research staff returning to work after
 leave, and they are offered the opportunity to attend a conference on return to work (without a
 publication) to facilitate transition back to academic life. We offer child-care to support staff and
 PhD students attending residential events. Meetings are organised between the hours of 10-4 to
 facilitate those with caring responsibilities. Following agreement with a line-manager, staff are
 supported to work flexibly and at home where required. E&D considerations are taken into
 account during promotion panels and staff are supported by line-managers during annual
 reviews to ensure additional support needs are met where possible and to accommodate flexible
 working requests. Our female staff have a 50% success rate in promotion, comparable to the
 success rate for male staff of 55%.

 Our Code of Practice outlines the procedure for identification of staff who are SRR. It further
 outlines the policy for output-selection for these staff which is based only on quality. In UoA11,
 when considering outputs of equal quality, our selection process aimed to equalise the number
 of output authorships per staff member as far as possible.

 The School maintains an “Inclusion Station” within a social area. Inclusion stations make a
 visible commitment to creating an inclusive environment. The Inclusion Station is a place to
 celebrate achievements, promote events and share ideas. A range of texts on inclusion are
 available to freely borrow.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our income overall has grown substantially since our 2014 submission. External income for the
 previous period was averaged at £0.95M per year over 5 years. This has grown to £1.27M per
 year over this REF, an increase of £1.6M in total. COVID-19 has had some impact on income in
 the final months of the REF period in that it has delayed the start date of three awarded EPSRC
 grants until late 2020/early 2021.

 The biggest sources of contribution are EU (27%), UK Government & Authorities (25%), UK
 industry and commerce (21%), Research councils (17%). We have seen a significant rise in
 EPSRC funding with four major new grants awarded or starting in late 2020 and early 2021
 totalling £2.45 million pounds (1. Gkatzia, 2. Gkatzia (with Hussain), 3. Hussain (with Hart, Al-
 Dubai, Buchanan), 4. Hart) and two new EU funded projects totalling £1.08 million (Carousel
 £898,000 (Mitchell, Kennedy, Koniaris), Glass £190K, (Buchanan, Chrysoulas)). These
 successes reflect our collaborative and inclusive approach to funding.

 External funding is directly linked to many of high-quality outputs submitted. For example, the
 EPSRC funded life-long learning project generated a number of articles in leading optimisation
 journals, and DISTRO (EU) led to high-quality publications in leading graphics journals and a
 spin-out. Work in the IoT/Smart Systems funded through EU or other international funding has
 generated outputs that have underpinned recently won funding, e.g. the COG-MHEAR
 programme grant.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our focus has been on developing and sustaining research areas which have attracted external
 income, or have high potential to do so, while recognising the need to be bold in supporting new
 ideas and researchers at an early stage in their careers. We specifically encourage partnership
 with industry, reflected in ten KTP projects being awarded this period. The impact our research
 has is reflected in £200K in Proof-of-Concept funding from Scottish Enterprise/Innovate UK and
 in 64 collaborations with local companies via SFC funded Innovation Vouchers. The recent
 successes reflect the increased emphasis placed on providing training for researchers through
 the centralised RIE support (REF5a), combined with mentoring and support within the School.

 Since REF2014, the School has made significant investment in research facilities in line with our
 core areas of research that have been key to winning funding and supporting impact. The
 School has invested in:

    A Swarm Robotics laboratory, facilitating research on Evolutionary Robotics (including
     investment of £183,000 from the University Capital Fund), providing state-of-the-art camera
     monitoring, and 50 robots from multiple manufacturers. This underpinned a successful multi-
     institution EPSRC application (Hart, 2018-2022) which continues to deliver high quality
     research, and was pivotal in an RSE International Exchange award.
    The Sensorium: (£30K new equipment). A state-of-the-art laboratory that facilitates User
     Experience studies and research. The laboratory is equipped with sensors that measure
     physical, psychological, and neurological real-time responses to interaction with systems and
     services. These biometric data-streams are synchronised with audio and video data to
     produce visualisations that inform user-centred design and underpins some of the work
     reported in the Blended Spaces case-study.
    The E11 Studio (£120K in-kind contribution by the School to the AHRC Creative Informatics
     project) specialises in digital prototyping and the role of data in the creative industries and
     provides a space for researchers from the creative arts and informatics to work together.
     Provision of this support from the School was a key element of the submitted proposal that
     led to this funding.
    A Security Operation Centre (vSOC) (£50K). This enables research and training on
     scenarios such as ransomware, Denial of Service and data loss, all within a safe
     environment. This is a collaborative venture including leading companies involved in Cyber
     Security analytics such as CheckPoint, RSA, HPE, IBM and F5. A key part of the building
     this has been a partnership with an external company Satisnet, who build and run security
     operation centres. This infrastructure has facilitated a number of research projects, including
     an EU funded project on cyber-crime training (DFET, 2014-16).
    An Advanced Blockchain Identity Lab co-funded over a three-year period by leading
     Blockchain company BlockPass, which focuses on the rights of the citizen to privacy, while
     enabling new methods to provide citizen-focused systems, using blockchain and advanced
     cryptography methods. This led to securing a major EU funded project GLASS (2021-23).


 The School also invested:
     £72,000 in a state-of-the-art high-performance cluster to support research within
       optimisation and data-science (2016) to support networking research.
     £10,500 on components and equipment for the Internet of Things lab.
     £9,000 on new equipment for the Auralisation research suite.


 Companies who have provided the School with in kind investment to support our infrastructure
 include:
      £8,000 of GPU Equipment provided by Nvidia to support Games research.
      $100,000 of CISCO Networking Equipment provided for the Internet of Things lab




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We work collaboratively with a large number of institutions both nationally and internationally.
 For example, joint UK-based research projects with other HEIs with spend reported in this REF
 include: EPSRC funded ARE (Hart: U. of York, UWE), Rigorous Graphical Explainable AI for
 Higher-Risk Applications (Methven: Heriot-Watt), and AHRC funded Creative-Informatics
 (Smyth: University of Edinburgh). Additional collaborative projects awarded but without spend
 during the period are COG-MHEAR (EPSRC; Glasgow, Manchester, Edinburgh), and Keep-
 Learning (EPSRC; St Andrews).

 We have participated in collaborative projects with multiple European partners funded via the EU
 framework programs, e.g., DISTRO (Mitchell), MAZI (Smyth), CAR (Liu), FOCAS (Hart),
 Speculative Design (Smyth), and Clustering Creativity (Morrisson). We have won two Royal
 Society International Exchange Awards that fund international collaborations (Hart – South
 Africa, Liu -China). The success of our collaborative approach is reflected in our submitted
 outputs which include collaborators from across the globe, including UK, Europe, Middle East,
 China, and Australia.

 We also place considerable emphasis on collaboration with industry. We have worked on 10
 KTP projects and won 64 SFC funded innovation vouchers which fund short projects with
 Scottish industry. We have undertaken contract research with 8 companies (e.g. HAS
 Technology, Payfont, BAE systems).

 We further support collaboration through the appointment of Visiting Research Professors
 (currently two; Pitt, Imperial College London, and Guckert, Technische Hochenschule
 Mittelhessen). We hosted two visitors as part of the HPC-Europa3 Transnational Access
 programme, which facilitates scientific collaboration with visiting researchers from Europe (two
 further visits were postponed due to COVID-19). These have also resulted in joint publications.

 At a national level, the School benefits from its membership of SICSA (the Scottish Informatics
 and Computer Science Alliance), a government funded pooling initiative of Computer Science
 departments across all Scottish Universities. Our staff play a significant role within SICSA. Hart
 co-chaired the Artificial Intelligence theme from 2016 to 2020, and Gkatzia was appointed as
 new co-lead in 2021. Lawson was the SISCA Director for Knowledge Exchange (2016-18).
 Buchanan is heavily involved in the SICSA Cyber Nexus, linking academia, business,
 government, the public sector and the third sector in the area of Cyber Security. Our staff are
 regular exhibitors at the annual SISCA Demofest which provides a forum for industry to engage
 with Scottish academics. A current KTP project (Hart) arose directly from a contact made at
 Demofest. Gkatzia was awarded a SICSA Postdoctoral and Early Career Researcher
 Exchanges (PECE) bursary to undertake a research visit to Germany (Bielefeld University). We
 have collaborated on two SICSA Distinguished Visiting Fellow (DVF) applications, hosting
 seminars from DVFs from the U.S and New Zealand.

 Our involvement in the ORCA hub (part of the government’s £93m R&D funding on “Robotics
 and AI for Extreme Environments” through the Industry Strategic Challenge Fund (ISCF)) led to
 a project (Methven) with Heriot-Watt on Rigorous Graphical Explainable AI for Higher-Risk
 Applications. Our involvement with the Scottish Innovation Centres has funded a number of
 research projects in collaboration with Scottish companies, including Datalab (5 projects), Digital
 Health Institute (6 projects) and CENSIS (1 project).

 Engagement with diverse communities
 We place considerable emphasis on Public Engagement, setting aside £20K plus staff time to
 support this annually. Our staff have published 51 articles in The Conversation about their
 research during the REF period, totalling 679,000 reads. This demonstrates a broad reach of our
 research to the wider public.

 We take an active part in Edinburgh International Science Festival, ranging from running robotics

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workshops (Davison) to appearing on panels in public discussions (Hart). We exhibited our
 robotics work at the Scottish Parliament (Steyven). Smyth coordinated the City | Data | Future
 exhibition created as part of the UrbanIxD project, exhibited in Venice, Aarhus, Pula, Split &
 Ljubljana, and now a permanent piece at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Zagreb, Croatia.
 Buchanan was co-creator and regular contributor to the Cyber Christmas Lectures, held every
 year across 6 Scottish cities. Hart has taken part in the UK initiative Pint of Science, delivered
 classes at the Canberra AI Summer School (open to the general public, undergraduates and
 researchers) and was recently a panellist at Holyrood Magazine’s AI and Automation
 Conference, the premier gathering of senior AI and Automation professionals from across the
 Scottish public sector.

 Our collaborations with sculpture park Jupiter Artland have both communicated and produced
 new research. As a response to Flint and Turner’s work on appropriation, a Minecraft facsimile
 of the park was constructed and used to explore remote engagement with the sculpture park
 leading to; an online Easter Egg Hunt and Sculpture Competition during COVID-19, a bespoke
 mixed-reality game release on the Android platform, and activities using the game at Edinburgh
 International Science Festival 2016 & 2017. Our work with the Whale Arts Agency on digi-
 mapping involved working with local children in an area of social deprivation to produce
 interactive maps of their area and led to a conference publication.

 Impact of research not captured in impact case studies
 Collaborative research during the REF period at the IoT and Smart Systems Cluster and the
 Applied AI and Data Science Cluster has pioneered innovations in partnership with industry,
 standardisation bodies, policy makers, clinicians and academics, from across the UK, EU,
 Australia, Canada, China, Middle East and the USA. Novel IoT communication protocols (Al-
 Dubai, Romdhani) and multi-modal Deep Learning (DL) algorithms (Hussain) were developed
 as part of interdisciplinary projects funded by industry and national and international funders
 (including the UKRI, EPSRC, Innovate UK, King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology and
 NNSFC China). The work has directly informed development of international standards and
 commercialisation of innovative smart city transportation and healthcare applications. End-users
 include Neusoft, Nokia-Bell Labs, Phonak, Liaoning-Ruixiang General Aviation, ni2o, Nanjing
 Pudao and the Scottish Government (SG) COVID-19 Advisory Group. Al-Dubai and Romdhani
 have been instrumental in developing key protocol standards that addressed major limitations in
 current IoT communication standards in terms of load balancing, mobility and energy efficiency.
 Global impact on standards was realised by building prototypes and leading active participation
 of team members in two international technical standards bodies for communications,
 specifically the Internet-Engineering Task Force (IETF), the main international technical
 standards body governing the Internet, and The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
 (IEEE). Commercial impact was realised through adoption of our IoT and AI-based approaches
 in smart city applications. This includes drone-based transportation (Al-Dubai), effective and
 efficient spectrum management for ITS (Al-Dubai and Hussain) and optimised power
 management for IoT-enabled electric vehicles (Liu).

 Work combining machine-learning and optimisation (Sim, Hart) in predicting wind-damage in
 Forestry was awarded an international Bronze “Humies” award at the International Conference
 of Genetic and Evolutionary Computing, for achieving human-competitive results on a significant
 problem. We continue to actively engage with the cyber business community in Scotland through
 our spinouts (Symphonic, ZoneFox, CyanForensics), and with Scottish Companies through
 engagement with Datalab funded projects (Hart, Lawson, Urquhart, Sim, Buchanan). Our
 state-of-the-art Blockchain work in collaboration with has led to EU-funded collaboration re
 privacy-preserving Internet searches.

 We are agile in our response to funding opportunities and creating impact from our research.
 Hussain won £135,104 to work on an Artificial Intelligence-powered dashboard for tracking
 COVID-19-related public sentiment and opinion, mining in social media platforms from the
 Scottish Government Rapid Research programme, with University of Edinburgh. This aids
 policymakers, public health and clinical practitioners in understanding and mitigating the impacts

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the COVID-19 pandemic. The findings will support decision-makers, informing the
 development of appropriate interventions and aiding development of exit strategies from current
 or future lockdowns. The delivered framework is currently being evaluated by the Scottish
 Government to inform its vaccination policy.

 Urquhart developed a free piece of software that scheduled food deliveries using his research
 on optimisation and was made freely available to local companies during the first lockdown.
 Example users included Untitled Oats, Edinburgh Community Food, Leaf & Bean Cafe
 (Edinburgh), Breadshare Community Bakery (Edinburgh), and Edinburgh Food Social.

 Contribution to discipline sustainability
 Our staff play a role in contributing to the sustainability of the discipline in the UK and
 internationally. Smith chaired the Council of Professors and Heads of Computing (2014-2016).
 Hart is a member of the Research Committee of the UK Operation Research Society (with a
 remit to grow the discipline and focus on interdisciplinary connections) and is a panel member
 for UoA11 REF2021. Hussain was a member of UKCRC from September 2020. Membership of
 IEEE/ACM Technical Committees is listed below. Buchanan was named by the UK Government
 in Top UK Influencers in Blockchain, 2018.

 Collectively we contribute to the discipline through acting as external examiners for PhD
 students. 13 staff have examined PhDs at 37 institutions in the UK during this period, while
 seven staff have examined 15 PhDs at international institutions across the globe, in Europe, in
 Hong Kong, New Zealand, South Africa, Malaysia and the Middle East. Our contributions to the
 discipline are further evidenced by our participation as Editors of journals, journal and
 conference reviewing, roles as General Chairs/Programme Chairs and on organisational
 committees of conferences, participating in grant awarding committees and in reviewing
 proposals both nationally and internationally as listed below.

    Membership of national policy committees
     o Hart: Invited member of government Steering Group to oversee development of Scottish
       Government AI Strategy (2020)
     o Smith, S: Shadbolt Review (2016)
     o Buchanan: Invited member of INTERPOL CYBER Experts Group
     o Hussain: Invited Member, National Centre of Big Data & Cloud Computing (NCBC),
       Higher Education Commission, Pakistan Government
     o Hussain: Member, UK Computing Research Committee (CRC)


    Membership of international committees
     o Hussain: Vice-Chair, IEEE Computational Intelligence Society (CIS) Emergent
       Technologies Technical Committee (2017-); Vice-Chair, IEEE CIS Task Force on
       Intelligence Systems for Health, 2017-)
     o Buchanan: IEEE Technical Committee Co-chair for Blockchain (2018-)
     o Al-Dubai Member IEEE Technical Committee on Internet of Things (2015-); member
       EEE Technical Committee on Smart Cities (2015-)
     o Hart: Member IEEE Evolutionary Developmental Systems and Robotics Task Force
       (2021-); Member ACM Special Interest Group on Evolutionary Computation (SIGEVO)
       (2015-).

    Journal editorship
     o Three staff currently hold Editor in Chief positions of well-regarded journals: Hart
        (Evolutionary Computing, MIT Press); Hussain (Cognitive Computation, Springer Nature;
        Big Data Analytics, Bio-Med Central/Springer Nature); Buchanan (Journal for Cyber
        Security Technology, Taylor & Francis, Journal of Blockchain in Health).
     o Four members of staff also hold Editor positions of book series: Hussain (Book Series
        on Socio-Affective Computing, Springer, Book Series on Cognitive Computation Trends,


                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Springer); Al-Dubai, Book Series on Internet of Things, Springer) Liu (Handbook on
         Green Computing, IGI Global); Liotta; (Springer book series Internet of Things)
     o   9 staff hold Associate Editor positions on 14 journals (including 4x IEEE Transactions, 1
         ACM journal, 1 Elsevier, 2 x Springer. 6 staff have acted as guest editor on over 20
         Special Issues in a wide range of journals).

    Participation on grant awarding committees
     o Kennedy participated on 5 BBSRC funding panels
     o Hart: Carnegie Funding panel; Royal Society International Networks panel
     o Al-Dubai: Omani Research Council funding panel.

    Fellowships
     o Senior Fellow IEEE (Al-Dubai, Mitchell, Liu, Ahmad, Hussain)
     o Senior Member ACM (Hart)
     o Fellow of BCS (Smith, Flint, Kennedy, Buchanan, Paechter):
     o Liotta: Shanghai Thousand Talents Distinguished Professorship in AI
     o Mitchell: BAFTA member; Pioneer Member ACM SIGRAPH
     o Research Fellowships:
           o Industry Fellowship for Taku Komura (Royal Society) [Mitchell]
           o Leverhulme Fellowship [Hart]
           o Keele Institute of Liberal Arts and Sciences Fellow [Powers]

    Honours
     o Kennedy: inducted into IEEE Vis Academy 2020
     o Buchanan: OBE, 2018 for services to Cyber-Security

    Awards
     o Buchanan/Lawson: Winner, Innovation of the Year, Scottish Knowledge Exchange
       Awards (2016,2019).
     o Buchanan; Outstanding Contribution to Knowledge Exchange, Scottish Knowledge
       Exchange Awards, 2018
     o Buchanan: Cyber Evangelist of the Year, Scottish Cyber Awards, 2016.
     o Buchanan: Winner, Cyber Security Innovation of the Year, Scottish Cyber Awards,
       2016.
     o Buchanan: Winner, Best Collaboration with Police Scotland, Scottish Cyber Awards,
       2016.
     o Al Dubai: Outstanding Service Award, IEEE Computer Society, 2016
     o Smyth: Recognition of Service Award from the Association of Computing Machinery,
       ACM, 2017
     o Tan: Outstanding Service Award, IEEE Computer Society, 2017
     o Tan: The National Research Award 2017 - The Research Council of the Sultanate of
       Oman
     o Moradpoor - Winner of Outstanding Woman in Cyber (Scottish Cyber Awards 2017)

    Prizes
     o Hussain: co-Leader of the Winning Team (jointly with Tsinghua University) at the 2nd
         World Intelligent Driving Challenge (WIDC), held in Tianjin, China, 15-17 May 2018.
     o Hussain: Best Performing Approach Award for 'Semantic Parsing' Task at the joint-
         industry & academic-led 'Concept-Level Sentiment Analysis Challenge’, organized as
         part of the 11th Extended Semantic Web Conference 2014
     o Sim/Hart: Humies Bronze Award $1000, ACM GECCO 2018

    Reviewing Awards
     o Liu: Springer's IJAC Outstanding Reviewers Award
     o Tan: Outstanding Contribution in Reviewing 2018 - Computers, Environment and Urban
        Systems, ISSN: 0198-9715


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     o   Tan: Outstanding Contribution in Reviewing 2017 - Future Generation Computer
         Systems, ISSN: 0167-739X
     o   Tan: Outstanding Contribution in Reviewing 2016 - Journal of Network and Computer
         Applications,
     o   Gkatzia: Outstanding reviewer (ACL 2018, ACL 2020)
     o   Ahmad: Outstanding Contribution in Reviewing 2018 – Journal of King Saud University –
         Computer and Information Science, ISSN: 1319-1578
     o   Ahmad: Outstanding Contribution in Reviewing 2018 – Signal Processing, ISSN: 0165-
         1684
     o   Ahmad: Outstanding Contribution in Reviewing 2018 – Journal of Information Security
         and Applications, ISSN: 2214-2126

    Reviewing of Funding Proposals
     o Five staff are EPSRC College members(Al-Dubai, Hart, Liu, Hussain, Kennedy); staff
        have also reviewed for EPSRC (Chapman, Tan); NERC(Liu), MRC (Gkatzia, Hussain,
        Tan);PhenomUK (Giuffrida)
     o Reviewing for Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA): PECE (Early
        Career Exchanges) applications [Moradpoor; Hart; Lawson]; Distinguished Visiting
        Fellows Applications [Hart]
     o Internationally our staff provided support for the discipline by being part of the evaluation
        process for proposals for:
            o EU H2020 (Liu, Romdhani, Paechter, Hussain) ;
            o Croatian Science Foundation (Hart); Canada Research Council [Hussain];
               Omani Research Council (Al-Dubai); Research Council of Cyprus [Al-Dubai];
               Natural Research Foundation of South Africa Liu]; Polish national Science Centre
               (Wells); Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO) [Tan, Wells]

    Invited keynotes at International Conferences
     o Al-Dubai: 5th International Symposium on Modelling and Implementation of Complex
         Systems, 2018 Algeria; Reliable Intelligent Transportation Systems for Smart Cities,
         2nd international Conference and Business Expo on Wireless & Telecommunication,
         2016,Dubai, UAE.
     o Buchanan: 5th International Conference on Information Systems, Security and Privacy,
         Prague, 2019
     o Hart: 28th European Conference on Operations Research (EURO) 2016, Poland; IEEE
         Congress on Evolutionary Computing (CEC) 2019, New Zealand; 20TH Latin-Iberio
         Conference on Operations Research: Euro Distinguished Lecturer, 2020; 9th International
         Conference on Computational Intelligence, Maderia, 2018;
     o Paechter: 10th International Conference on Practice and Theory in Automated
         Timetabling, 2014
     o Liu : International Conference on Information Science and Systems (ICISS) 2020; 3rd
         International Conference on Algorithms, Computing and Artificial Intelligence (ACAI)
         2020, Edinburgh; 7th International Conference on Geo-Spatial Knowledge and
         Intelligence (2019), China
     o Smyth: ACM CHITALY19, Padova, Italy, September 2019

    International Conference General Chair:
     o Hussain: General Chair IEEE WCCI 2020; IEEE SSCI CICARE 201
     o Hart & Paechter: General Chairs, PPSN 2016
     o Al-Dubai: General Chair IEEE IUCC 2019, IUCC 2020, CPSCom-2017
     o Gkatzia: INLG 2016
     o Chapman: Diagrams 2018, ICCS 2018
     o Smith, S: Horizons in STEM Education 2017

    International Conference Programme Chair:
     o Al-Dubai: IEEE SutainCom 2020, PDCAT 2014
     o Hart: IEEE SASO 2016

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     o   Hussain: IEEE DSS 2018, IEEE SmartData-2017
     o   Chapman: Diagrams 2020
     o   Liu: ACAI 2020, ICAISE 2020, ICISS 2020, CNIOT 2020, ITIOT 2020, CENET 2020,
         CENET 2019, SETA 2016
     o   Flint BCS HCI 2017
     o   Smyth, M. Technical Programme Chair, ACM Designing Interactive Systems (DIS),
         Edinburgh, 2017.
     o   Tan: iSCI 2020, DependSys 2019, CloudComp 2019, BD:TA 2018
     o   Sim . EvoApplications Programme Chair 2018
     o   Moradpoor, SIN 2018

    Peer-Review Activities:
     Staff have reviewed for over 120 different journals, including over 30 IEEE/ACM
     Transactions, for example:
         o ACM Transactions: including Transactions on: Graphics; Evolutionary Learning and
             Optimization, Networking, and Internet Technology
         o IEEE Transactions: including Neural Computing; Evolutionary Computing; Mobile
             Computing; Cloud Computing; Visualisation and Computer Graphics; Information
             Forensics & Security; Parallel and Distributed Systems
         o Springer: includes Cognitive Computing; Neural Computing and Applications
         o Elsevier: includes Neurocomputing; Information Fusion; Computer & Graphics;
             European Journal on Operations Research; Computer Networks; Pattern Recognition
             Letters; Computers & Security
         o Royal Society: including Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences,
             Interface, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B

    International Programme Committees
     o Staff have been on programme committees for over 50 different international
         conferences, including A-ranked conferences such as AAAI; AAMAS; GECCO;CHI;
         SIGGRAPH




                                                                                     Page 18
