Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 University of Leeds
 Unit of Assessment:
 D 32
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Art & Design at the University of Leeds is part of the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Cultures,
 and is organised into the School of Fine Art History of Art, and Cultural Studies (FAHACS) and
 the School of Design (SoD). The UoA unites their diverse range of Art & Design disciplines: fine
 art practice and design practice, history of art, cultural studies, graphic design, information
 design, fashion industry and marketing studies, textile technology, colour technology, museum
 and heritage studies. We operate within a shared framework of research themes and strategies
 and collaborate within research groups creating a formidable force for Art and Design in Higher
 Education and across the academy, and providing international leadership and demonstrable
 applications of art, design, and heritage research across the world.

 The activity of the UoA submission is grouped into four broad research themes which embody
 our shared strategic aims. While individual school research groups have been in place for some
 years, in the last two years research themes have been conceived as a way of driving the
 overarching areas of activity which best facilitate our shared aims towards increased external
 funding, interdisciplinary collaboration and impact, as well as maximising the interdisciplinary
 reach of our research across the creative, heritage/history, and industrial sectors.

    A. Culture: Our academics work at the heart of critical cultural studies, operate as cultural
       creators in art, design, and heritage, and offer practical expertise in cultural production
       and display.
    B. Economy: As a UoA consisting of artists, cultural historians and theorists, designers,
       inventors and technologists we are uniquely positioned to offer real-world, direct
       economic impact as well as theoretical and practical critique of the larger cultural
       economy.
    C. Environment and Ethics: Issues of environmental sustainability, ethical practice in
       industry and scholarship, equality, diversity, and community co-creation are key concerns
       across the UoA.
    D. Health and Wellbeing: Applications of our research to improve health and wellbeing
       drive our cutting-edge textile and colour technologies work, emerge from our research in
       visual communications and experience design, and are informed by our research in
       theorising social wellbeing and egalitarian structures and societies.

 These strategic aims are realised through eleven focused research groups with each of our
 researchers belonging to one or more groups and each group contributing to one or more of our
 strategic themes: 1) archiving and design history (contributes to A, B, C), (2) textile and fashion
 design (contributes to B, C, D), (3) experience design (contributes to B, C, D), (4) visual
 communications (contributes to A, B, D), (5) textile technology (contributes to B, C, D), (6) colour
 technology (contributes to A, B, D), (7) art practice as research (contributes to A, B, C), (8)
 artists’ writing and curation as practice (contributes to A, B), (9) feminist and postcolonial studies
 (contributes to A, B, C, D), (10) critical materialist studies (contributes to A, B, D), (11) museum,
 heritage, and art market studies (contributes to A, B, C). These research groups incubate and
 develop research strength and impact across all experience levels from ECR to professor and
 include teaching staff to facilitate research-led teaching.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In the REF period the UoA has
     • Increased its research income to £13,765,213 from £5,307,560 (REF2014).
     • Published 393 peer-reviewed journal papers; authored 46 books/monographs, 156 book
         chapters, 108 peer-reviewed conference papers and completed 106 exhibitions and
         performances.
     • Supervised a total of 135.9 PhDs to completion, with 184 PhD registrations in the period.
     • Created four new research centres: The Artists’ Writing and Publication Centre, the
         Centre for the Study of the Arts and Antiques Market, the Centre for Critical Materialist
         Studies, and the Centre for Audio Visual Experimentation.
     • Made 4 new Chair promotions, and 9 ECR appointments (7 through the University
         Academic Fellows scheme), attracted 15 Visiting Research Fellows (including 1
         Leverhulme funded, 2 Montague Burton funded Fellows).

 Research Strategy
 UoA research and impact strategy is:
 (1) To operate at the interface between design and technology with a commitment to
 interdisciplinary research and impact across all areas of design to the benefit of society. Central
 to the delivery of this strategy is the integration of staff with different theoretical and practical
 approaches within existing research groups as well as with researchers in other schools
 including Leeds University Business School, the School of Chemistry, the School of Dentistry,
 the School of Language, Cultures and Societies, the School of Music, the School of History, the
 Institute of Communications Studies, and the Institute for Medieval Studies. For example, in
 collaboration with the University of Huddersfield and Royal College of Art, the SoD led a
 successful application (£5.4M) for a creative cluster as part of the Creative Industries Cluster
 Programme (funded by AHRC). The aim of the Future Fashion Factory is to explore and
 develop new digital and advanced textile technologies to boost the design of high-value creative
 products in the textile and fashion industries. The Future Fashion Factory cluster now includes
 nearly 200 industrial members with whom we are collaborating, including IBM and Burberry, and
 provides a key opportunity for our interdisciplinary research to flourish and to impact society and
 industry. The Future Fashion Factory is one of the mechanisms that encourages technology and
 design staff to work collaboratively together (and with external partners) to solve real-world
 problems.

 (2) To operate at the interface between the critical humanities and practice-based fine art and
 museum/heritage research. The success of this strategy is evidenced by, for example, the
 Bradford’s National Museum project. In collaboration with the National Science and Media
 Museum, the School of History, and the School of Philosophy, Religion and History of Science,
 FAHACS leads a successful AHRC project (£934K) exploring the political geographies of the
 National Science and Media Museum and wider Science Museum Group, and the different
 communities who live in Bradford as a means of addressing the tensions facing inter/national
 museums in engaging their local audiences. The project has immediate local social and
 economic impact that provides a model of best practice for national and international institutions
 and communities. It is also part of one of our Impact Case Studies.

 Since REF 2014 we have strengthened the research and impact culture within the unit enabling
 us to increase the global impact of our research. These goals have been achieved by:



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       A. Increasing Research Funding and Time to Support High-Quality Research. The
          UoA has targeted support from RCUK to supplement its strong base of research
          income from industry, leading to the doubling of research income in this REF period.
          This led to Future Fashion Factory (above) as well as partnership in a second AHRC-
          creative cluster led by London College of Fashion. We have benefited from increased
          access to and success in internal research funding and leave support leading to an
          increase of 60% in external funding applications and to 6 awards for international
          collaborations.
       B. Developing External Partnerships. The UoA has developed new strategic
          partnerships with internationally renowned companies including Verivide Ltd (who
          manufacture products for visual quality inspection) who, as part of the partnership,
          have donated new equipment for the Colour Technology research group. The
          creative cluster, Future Fashion Factory, has also enriched our partnerships with IBM
          and Burberry. We have developed new or expanded existing partnerships with
          numerous heritage and cultural organisations including the National Trust, English
          Heritage, V&A, Tate, British Library, British Museum, National Gallery, and JK Randle
          Heritage Centre (Lagos). In the cultural sector our research groups enhance culture
          and shape policy locally, nationally, and internationally. This work is facilitated by the
          University’s Cultural Institute, a global centre of research and teaching excellence,
          that coordinates activities across the University, and helps broker and provides seed
          funding for engagement with external partners.
       C. Strategic Appointments. The UoA has made important strategic appointments
          using the University’s Academic Fellowship scheme. A University Academic Fellow is
          appointed to a structured five-year development programme that leads to becoming
          an Associate Professor. During the REF period, four University Academic Fellows
          were appointed: Belinfante in Fine Art & Curatorial Practice, strengthening curation
          as practice and research and extending research strength into sound and
          performance via the new Centre for Audio Visual Experimentation (CAVE); Xiao in
          Colour Technology, enabling the research group to extend expertise into the 3D
          printing and rapid prototyping fields; Knifton in Museums, Galleries, and Heritage,
          adding expertise on the sensory environment of museums and digital collecting;
          Jafari in Artificial Intelligence, identified as a key enabling technology for the UoA and
          a major component of the work that is taking place in the Future Fashion Factory
          creative cluster.
       D. Additional Bursaries to Increase PhD Cohort. The UoA has continued to support
          and develop academic staff and nine staff (Gaston, Marsden, Laycock, Belinfante,
          Stainforth, Cass, McGonigal, Park, Taylor) obtained their PhDs during the REF
          period. Additional studentships and bursaries and the success of our students in the
          White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH) have more than doubled
          the number of PhD students to provide a vibrant postgraduate community.
       E. Investment in Infrastructure to Provide a Professional and Inspiring
          Environment. The University has invested heavily in refurbishment of our
          infrastructure and buildings over the REF period. Two phases of refurbishment took
          place in the SoD (£6M in 2014/15 and £4M in 2017/18) to provide new and
          refurbished facilities including a Design Experience Laboratory (with eye tracking,
          EEG and colour research facilities), a Textile Testing Laboratory, a new reception
          area and a new student common room. An investment of £7.6M enabled FAHACS to
          move into a refurbished building adjoining the SoD, providing enlarged studio,

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           workshop, and exhibition space, new staff and student common rooms, and
           facilitating collaboration between the two Schools.
        F. Hosting International Conferences to Raise Awareness of Activities. In this REF
           period the UoA has hosted Jewish Museologies and the Politics of Display (2016),
           Listening: After Paulina Oliveros (2017, in collaboration with the Tetley and Opera
           North), the 91st Textile Institute World Conference with the theme of Integrating
           Design with Sustainable Technology (2018), the Congress of the International Colour
           Association (2019), the European Artistic Research Network (EARN) conference
           (2019) and has continued to provide leadership for (and host occasionally) the
           LAND2 practice-based research network.

 Research and Impact Outcomes:
 Shared impact strategy across the UoA enables research groups in both schools to address
 research themes, often in a cross-disciplinary way both with other research groups and with
 other academics in the University. Research and impact goals are delivered by both staff and
 PGRs across the UoA’s research areas. A significant amount of this research falls under more
 than one strategic theme:

    A. Culture:
       Culture is central to UoA strategy. In FAHACS it is a key theme within all four research
       groups: (1) feminist and postcolonial studies, (2) critical materialist studies, (3) museum,
       heritage, and art market studies, (4) artists’ writing and curation as practice. In SoD work
       in archiving and design history, textile and fashion design and practice-led research
       contributes to the culture theme.

        Artists’ Writing and Curation as Practice consolidates and develops inter-disciplinary
        research on modes of critical and theoretical writing, curatorial production, editorial work
        and the production of text- and book-based art. Led by Taylor, Thurston and
        Lewandowski, AWCP considers artists’ publications (from ephemera, journals, ‘zines,
        artists’ books and websites, to artist-led book series and imprints) alongside artists’
        writings (from correspondence, papers, journals, criticism, interviews and statements, to
        theoretical and fiction writing) as forms of creative practice that can happen in, around or
        as art. It is a focus for both emerging and established artists, plus researchers and
        collaborative groups, engaged with or interested in producing and disseminating art in
        the overlaps between the cultural fields of art, literature and publishing, nationally and
        internationally. The group brings together practitioners, critics, historians, archivists,
        editors, curators and teachers in a sustained conversation about research directions in
        this sphere of artistic practice. These conversations and resulting outputs contribute
        unique insights of interest to audiences and researchers in the fields of fine a art history,
        curatorial studies, media theory, library and information science, and museums and
        heritage studies. The current network includes the British Library, the V&A, and the Tate.
        Long-term research projects include PAGES (Taylor), Wild Pansy Press (Taylor and
        Lewandowski), and informationasmaterial (Thurston).

        Museum, Heritage, and Art Market Studies combines historical analysis with public
        engagement and outreach work. Collaborative research projects include: Bradford’s
        National Museum: Methods for re-founding ‘inter/national’ museums translocally
        (Graham, AHRC); Mapping Contemporary Art in the Heritage Experience (Cass, AHRC;

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       led by Newcastle and Leeds with partners including National Trust, English Heritage,
       Churches Conservation Trust, CVAN); Life on the Outskirts: Making sense and use of a
       creative life (Knifton, AHRC). Through the Centre for Critical Studies in Museums,
       Galleries and Heritage, the group runs a Heritage Show and Tell in association with
       Leeds Museums and Galleries, and a Curatorial Forum in association with
       Arts&Heritage. Fatehrad, Frojmovic, Karkov, Park, Pollock have created public
       exhibitions, discussions, and publications around the role of art in contemporary and
       historic diasporas and in and for contemporary and historic refugee and immigrant
       communities. Fatehrad is co-founder of Herstoriographies: The Feminist Media Archive
       Research Network and co-curator of ‘The Space Between: Psyche, Body, Skin,
       Environment’, and writer, director, and curator of ‘Iran’s Women’s Movement’. Fukuoka
       is co-investigator of the Leverhulme funded ‘Engendering East Asia: Conversations of
       Contemporary Art’. Prenowitz is translating the writings of Hélène Cixous and Jacques
       Derrida, and contributes to a number of projects on the cultural heritage/memory of post-
       war Cambodia. Rea works on Colonial Nigeria and Yoruba Art and leads with the team
       developing the JK Randle Heritage Centre in Lagos. Sternberg participated in the
       University’s Legacies of War project. Cassidy’s Design Roots / Routes project explores
       how design can make a meaningful contribution in developing and revitalising culturally
       significant designs, products and practices to make them relevant to the needs of people
       today. The research considers designs and products that are linked to particular places,
       employ traditional making processes or are embedded in local ways of life. Tucker is a
       founding member of LAND2, a creative practice-led research network that brings
       together artists, academics and researchers to explore the relationship between art and
       landscape / place. Thomas, Gardner and L Wilson also contribute to LAND2 through
       their art practice. P Wilson works with speculative methods and storytelling as disruptive
       approaches to creatively engage communities. Bide carries out research at the
       intersection of geography and the creative industries with particular emphasis on fashion.
       Rigout characterises historical textile materials with a view to better presentation and
       long-term stability in a conservation setting.

    B. Economy:
       The UoA has extensive industrial connections. The Textile and Fashion Design, Textile
       Technology, and Colour Technology research groups all have deep industrial links
       through secured funding, consultancy and partnership. Staff (Westland, Rhodes,
       Cheung, Xiao) research works to understand how human colour vision operates and
       how this understanding can be used to develop new and more efficient methods of colour
       measurement and communication for industry. Westland and Jafari use machine-
       learning methods to develop software that can mimic human performance in colour and
       vision-based applications. Russell leads a large team of researchers that explores the
       manufacture and process-structure-property relationships of textile materials, particularly
       technical textiles and nonwovens; the research has developed new fabrics industrially
       applied to medical, healthcare and consumer products. Carr and Mao research the
       modification of fibrous materials to improve product performance. University support has
       enabled the creation of spin-out companies including Keracol (Blackburn), Xeros
       (Burkinshaw) and NIRI (Russell), all of which have provided impact case studies.

       Contributions to the cultural economy and third sector are exemplified by research
       groupings in Museum, Heritage (see A) and Art Market Studies. The Centre for Study

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       of the Arts & Antiques Market: (Westgarth, Jackson, Rea, Thurston, Day), is an
       interdisciplinary forum for collaborations and research on the history of the art and
       antiques market and its contemporary dimensions. CSAAM fosters engagement across
       academia, the museum world and art market professionals. People formally involved in
       CSAAM include academic colleagues from the Universities of Southampton, Manchester
       and Buckingham; together with museum professionals (V&A Museum, National Gallery,
       Temple Newsam and The Tetley), and art and antiques market professionals (Blairman &
       Sons, Phillips of Hitchin, Vernay & Jussel [USA] and Colnaghi). Public events include
       ‘Perspectives on the Art Market’ lectures; ‘Contemporary and Historic Issues in the Art
       Market’ workshops; and the conference ‘Private Collecting, Public Display: Art Markets
       and Museums’.

       Critical Materialist Studies is led by Checketts, Day, and Mowitt and explores cultures of
       capitalism, aiming to bring together historical, historiographical and theoretical
       perspectives, with an eye to the social formation classically known as ‘capitalism’, its
       prehistories and possible ‘post-histories’. The group addresses questions of value,
       capital, processes of capital subsumption; the interdependence of capital and
       colonialism; the reshaping of spatial and temporal experience; and the revival of marxist-
       feminism. Activities have included seminars, reading groups, and the PGR symposium
       Bodies Under Capitalism leading to the conference Speak-Body: Art, the Reproduction of
       Capital & the Reproduction of Life. It maintains a collaborative project Aesthetic Form &
       Uneven Modernity with Birkbeck College, University of London, and Centro de estudos
       Demanche e Formação de Sistemas Simbólicos (DESFORMAS) at Universidade de São
       Paulo with research events held in Leeds, São Paulo and London. Adopting the
       ‘temporally-inflected lens’, its programme consisted of a series of workshops and network
       activities in Brazil and the UK, and the Leeds symposium Aesthetic Form & Uneven
       Modernities (funded by an International Research Collaboration Award). In 2017,
       Brazilian funding was secured to extend the collaboration with a four-day seminar in São
       Paulo, Ficção e documentário: a questão do trabalho após 1968. More generally, staff
       take a lead in addressing issues central to the role of the Humanities in the 21st-century
       university and society through publications, conference presentations, and international
       workshops (Mowitt, Karkov).

    C. Environment and Ethics:
       Environmental sustainability is a major focus for research across the UoA, especially
       related to the textile and fashion, and art and heritage industries. Ethics is at the heart of
       each research group, and ethics and cultural sustainability are reflected in the impact
       outcomes of colleagues working in the Museum, Heritage and Art Market fields. Major
       projects address environmental sustainability. These are characterised, for example,
       through our creative cluster Future Fashion Factory, as well as extensive work in circular
       economies (Sinha, Sumner) and practical work in addressing problems with fast fashion
       (Hur). Blackburn is particularly interested in the use of natural products, and waste
       products such as blueberry skins, to extract dyes that can be used to make
       environmentally friendly cosmetics and hair dyes. Tucker co-hosted LAND2, a Cross,
       Multi, Inter, Trans conference in Sheffield in collaboration with the Association for the
       Study of Literature and Environment. Thoma is a contributor to this research network
       with its interest in landscape/place-oriented art. Rushton’s work questions the spaces
       and places appropriate for the presentation and discussion of socio-political art with

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        projects including Dread of Scarcity and Fear of Abundance (2015). Karkov works on the
        medieval environment and is one of the founding board members of the journal Medieval
        Ecocriticisms. Feminist and Postcolonial Studies produces feminist, queer, and post- or
        decolonial interventions across the disciplines, and is centred around ethical practices
        and frameworks. It is founded in the lasting research and impact on feminist and gender
        theory and the way they are taught across the disciplines provided by Pollock. Engh,
        Prenowitz, Mowitt and Pollock participate in the World Gender international research
        network. Karkov’s publications expand work on postcolonial theory to critique the racist
        histories of Medieval Studies and provide suggestions for decolonising the field.
        Stainforth’s research lies at the intersection of utopian studies, museums, and heritage
        display and interpretation. She was co-convener the Sadler Seminar Series ‘The
        Transcultural Fantastic’ in 2018–19. Graham is a leading researcher into the ethics and
        inclusivity of heritage archives and displays, especially as regards community
        collaboration and co-production. Morgan’s research focuses on ethics, racism and
        utopian studies. Knifton examines the impact and legacy of race relations in the UK as
        part of the UK Parliament community arts outreach First Waves.

    D. Health and Wellbeing:
       The UoA leads in the healthcare applications of design on multiple fronts: from medical
       textiles, through to information design for patients. We combine practical work in this
       theme with research strengths in equality and ethical research practice (as detailed
       above). Collaborative research proposals with companies, charities and governing
       bodies are strongly encouraged. The unit seeks to commercialise its research wherever
       possible to enrich culture, support the economy and improve the environment and the
       health of UK and global populations. Tronci is a joint appointment with the School of
       Dentistry and develops new biomaterials and applies these to treatment of chronic
       wounds, musculoskeletal care and the development of high-value medical devices.
       Stones works closely with healthcare professionals in the NHS to produce pain
       diagrams, pain pictograms and pain apps to enhance communication, particularly with
       non-English speakers and children. Stones also works with Savortex on an Innovate UK
       award to develop and deploy a smart hand-santiser device using non-touch technology
       that connects into buildings’ smart operating systems. Lonsdale is an expert in visual
       communication and also applies her knowledge to the efficient and effective design of
       information in healthcare. Xiao works closely with Stratasys to use 3D printing processes
       to develop more effective prosthetics that have better colour-appearance properties. Carr
       has worked with the Bill and Melissa Gates Foundation to develop effective anti-malaria
       nets that do not use insecticide. Westland works with both Colgate and Unilever to
       develop more effective tooth-whitening systems and to understand the role of tooth
       colour on people’s confidence and wellbeing. Westland studies the effect of light on
       sleep and his article in The Conversation about the role of blue light has been viewed
       160,000 times.

 Open Access
 The UoA has embraced the opportunities presented by Open Access and both Schools operate
 a policy on Open Access. Researchers are briefed regularly on the requirements and benefits of
 the system, and internal funds are available to cover APCs where appropriate. Research Teams
 and in-house administrators are in place to assist with the practicalities of compliance with Open



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Access, including advising on rules and regulations. All researchers are strongly advised to apply
 for an ORCiD as part of research policy.

 2. People
 Staffing strategy
 The UoA is committed to the appointment of high-quality research-active academic staff,
 promoting research excellence and interdisciplinarity. Staffing strategy during the REF period
 has focussed on expanding and maintaining critical mass in areas of research strength,
 increasing internationalism and collaboration, and incubating and providing leadership in new
 areas of research within and beyond the UoA. A new appointment (Xiao) has extended the
 interests of the colour technology research group into colour management of 3D printing and an
 appointment (Jafari) has been made to provide leadership in artificial intelligence. A joint
 appointment (Tronci) with the School of Dentistry was made to enhance the health-related
 collaborative research that is taking place between the UoAs with some staff (Westland) co-
 supervising PhDs in the School of Dentistry. Additional appointments (Almond, Logkizidou,
 Sinha, Suter, Guo, Dallabona, Han, Hemingray, Bide, Oliveira de Queiroz) strengthened our
 activities in fashion, fashion marketing and retail studies and a new appointment (Lonsdale) was
 made to strengthen graphic design. New hires have expanded our strength in heritage, museum
 and gallery studies (Knifton, Stainforth, Park), and feminism (Fatehrad, Park, McGonigal)
 building cross-programme synergies in contemporary art practice and curation (Belinfante,
 Fatehrad, Park, McGonigal), and increasing internationalism and research in global art and
 culture (Fatehrad).

 Since REF2014, we have appointed staff at all levels helping fulfil the strategic aim of making
 significant contributions to the benefit of society in our four thematic areas through the
 development of new technologies, design tools and understanding. We have developed our own
 researchers from PhD students (Hemingray, Belinfante, Cass, Stainforth, Park, McGonigal)
 and in addition appointed twelve ECRs (Guo, Koch, Suter, Dallabona, Logkizidou, Han,
 Fatharad Park, Lonsdale, Hemingray, Bide, Oliveira de Queiroz). Well-established mentoring
 schemes as well as training and induction programmes ensure that new researchers are given
 adequate and effective advice and support. ECRs are given lighter teaching loads to allow them
 to invest time in research and they are also introduced into PhD supervision teams led by
 established researchers; for example, Dallabona and Logkizidou are co-supervising with
 Professor Westland, and Cass is co-supervising with Professor Karkov. Retention and
 promotion of excellent researchers is central to our staffing strategy. Twelve staff have been
 promoted to Associate Professor (Checketts, Cheung, Crawford, Fukuoka, Graham,
 Lewandowski, Lonsdale, Rhodes, Stones, Thurston, Westgarth, Xiao). Leadership power
 within the UoA has been increased by the promotion of Day to a Chair in Art History, Harrison
 Moore to a Chair in Art History/Museum Studies, Lonsdale to a chair in Information and
 Communication Design, Mao to a Chair in Fibre and Textile Technology, and Taylor to a Chair
 in Fine Art. Four of those promoted hold or have held leadership roles within the School: Day is
 Director of Research and a leader of the Centre for Critical Materialist Studies, Harrison Moore
 was Head of FAHACS until Sep 2019, Lonsdale was Deputy Head of SoD and is now Head of
 SoD, and Taylor was Deputy Head of FAHACS until Sep 2020.

 Staff Development
 UoA staff are supported at all stages of their career and on all types of contract including part-
 time and fixed-term. Staff are developed and supported in the first three years of employment


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through the probation process and are assigned individual mentors to advise and guide them. In
 addition to mentoring, new staff receive induction into the research and support structures of the
 School, Faculty and University. Individual staff receive further mentoring through the promotion
 process by Faculty HR, Head of School, and Director of Research, as required. The University
 provides a Next Generation Researcher training and development programme for ECRs and
 PGRs, developed in line with the Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers
 and the national Researcher Development Framework. The Faculty offers professionalisation
 courses for ECRs, and guidance on and assistance with ethical review and research ethics.
 After probation all staff participate in an Annual Academic Meeting (AAM) and the Annual Staff
 Development Review Scheme (SRDS). Planning for promotion is an integral part of both
 exercises. The AAM takes a holistic approach to workload and developmental needs and
 requirements ensuring that research, teaching and administrative commitments are balanced
 according to individual circumstances, fairly distributed across staff in the School, and receiving
 any support felt necessary. SRDS enables staff to set and agree short- and long-term career
 objectives with the Head of School, and ensures that they are fully supported at School, Faculty,
 and University level. All research-active staff complete a 3-year personal forward planner for
 research and impact activities which is discussed and agreed with the Director of Research, and
 with the Head of school as part of the annual AAM. The planner has enabled, for example, 80%
 of staff to obtain teaching relief for short periods of research or grant writing, and one- or two-
 semester leaves for the completion of projects or to begin a new research project. A Director of
 Impact & Innovation supports staff in accessing training and funding opportunities. All staff
 receive mentoring with funding bids and research outputs as an integral part of the peer review
 process implemented at School and Faculty level. Grant writing workshops and mentoring are
 available through RIS and LAHRI. All funding applications are peer-reviewed by at least 2 senior
 researchers from the unit and/or Faculty prior to submission.

 The UoA has dedicated funds to support researchers’ (especially ECR) conference
 presentations, publications or exhibition costs, and to engage in national and international
 networks. Multiple sources of seed funding, internationalisation mobility funding, and
 interdisciplinary funding are available from the Faculty and University. Permanently contracted
 staff (including fractional staff) are encouraged to apply to the Faculty for a semester of research
 leave with the expectation that successful applications will be matched with a semester of leave
 from their School. Workload remission is normally 100% (but can also be fractional) and
 applications may be made once a member of staff has completed at least two semesters of
 teaching since the last award. Unsuccessful candidates for Faculty research leave can be
 supported for shorter periods of research time by the School. Additional support is available
 through the Faculty’s International Research Mobility and International Conference awards.
 Through personal forward planners and AAMs additional needs can be assessed and workload
 flexibility can be negotiated. The unit has also instituted red weeks (an average of 7 spread
 across the academic year outside of teaching weeks) during which staff are expected to focus
 on research as much as is possible given individual administrative commitments. Financial
 support for practice-based research in the Arts is available to staff and PGRs through CePRA,
 which was created to respond to the need within the Arts to debate the framing, articulation, and
 documentation of practice-led research methods, and to explore these issues across the
 disciplines. The University’s Crucible programme offers, research-intensive residential weekends
 promoting interdisciplinarity and leading to funding for its alumni. During the REF period an
 innovation fund provided by the Worshipful Company of Clothworkers with matched funding from
 the University encouraged and supported commercialisation of research resulting in the

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of three spin-out companies: NERI – textile-based innovation and commercial
 research; Xeros – technology to reduce water consumption in textile processing; and Keracol –
 sustainable natural cosmetics.

 The co-publication of outputs over the REF period by experienced professors with less
 experienced research-active and teaching fellow staff exemplifies the strength and development
 of our research culture. For example, established textile technology researchers Carr and Rigout
 published with Sumner strengthening their research base in sustainability; Mowitt has participated
 in Belinfante’s exhibitions and helped to establish CAVE; Westland mentored the less research
 active Henry, helping him publish single authored papers and claim his academic turf. Post-doctoral
 researchers are fully integrated into the research activities of the UoA and the unit hosts a
 number of Visiting Research Fellows, many of them international, who enhance the research
 and teaching within the UoA.

 At University level, the Organisational Development and Professional Learning (OD&PL) service
 provides integrated training and development for all staff and PGRs, with a holistic focus on the
 entirety of academic and professional development needs (research and innovation, learning
 and teaching, academic leadership and management, personal and professional skills). Twenty-
 eight staff have received OD&PL training in this REF period. The University also runs a Next
 Generation Researcher programme for the training and development of researchers at Leeds,
 from which 20 PGRs have benefited in this REF period. The programme has been developed in
 line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the national
 Researcher Development Framework (RDF). The implementation of the programme led to the
 creation of three Faculty training hubs that work in collaboration with OD&PL and other central
 services to provide training and development for research students and research staff.

 Equality and Diversity across the Unit
 The University has clear equality and diversity policies and remains committed to focusing on
 issues of diversity across disciplinary and research areas, highlighting this as part of the
 recruitment process. Through the University staff receive training in equality and inclusion, and
 unconscious bias. Since 2018 this training has been mandatory for all staff. Equality and
 inclusion are embedded into promotion and career development. As detailed above, new staff
 are assigned a mentor or advisor to help them with promotion, career development, and
 achieving their research ambitions, and workload is monitored to ensure gender equality and a
 fair distribution of administrative duties. The UoA makes all appointments under the University-
 wide commitment to adhere to equality and diversity legislation. Ten out of fifteen new
 appointments during the period were female. Childcare, maternity and adoption leaves are
 flexibly accommodated.

 We value diversity and ensure that everyone is treated with respect and dignity. Equality is
 promoted in all practices ensuring fairness in HR processes and providing a safe working
 environment. We promote equality and diversity through our own research, ensuring that they
 are central to our research strategy and appointment processes and generating an increasingly
 diverse PGR cohort. Day works on class, Marxism and traditions of emancipatory and dissident
 thought and labour; Frojmovic directs the Centre for Jewish Studies and works on antisemitism,
 historical relationships between Jewish, Christian, and Islamicate cultures, religion and heritage
 display, and decolonising Medieval Studies; Koch and Pollock research antisemitism and
 trauma; Fukuoka works on historiographical, methodological, translational, and gender issues in

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 East Asian art and its reception in the West; Rea on repatriating African art; Graham has
 pioneered models of inclusivity, participative research and political action in relation to heritage,
 property rights, and democracy, and co-organises FAHACS’s anti-racism organising group with
 Singh, and Fukuoka; Karkov works on relationships between historic and modern nationalism,
 ethnocentrism, and white supremacy, and on decolonising Medieval Studies; Morgan works on
 animality, globality, and humanity, utopian thought, and ethics; Stainforth works on utopian
 thought and ethics in the context of museum and heritage collections and displays; Mowitt
 works on questions of labour and the contemporary university, and race, gender, and sexuality
 in modern culture; Pollock’s work on feminism and gender diversity and equality is world
 leading; Prenowitz works with and on renowned feminist Hélène Cixous, gender theory, and
 sexual difference; Sternberg works on migrant and diasporic cultures, cultural memory and the
 experience of civilian internment. Sternberg, and Koch are experts on the representation of
 Jewish, Black and Asian identities in film and television.

 Research Students
 The UoA has achieved strong recruitment of doctoral research students with a total of 135.9
 PhDs completed in the period. The gender mix of the PGR community is 60% female and 40%
 male. Most PGR students are supported by (a) industrial scholarships, and engage in research
 that is driven by practical requirements in manufacturing industry and the creative and cultural
 industries, or by (b) scholarships from UKRC, AHC, the University and, the White Rose College
 of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH), which supports research and collaboration across the
 Universities of Leeds, Sheffield, and York. There is a vibrant international research community
 with 50% of PGRs from non-EU countries. Research students are initially registered on an
 MPhil/PhD route and are supervised by one lead supervisor and a co-supervisor or co-
 supervisors. Each student is required to produce a training plan (after one month), a progress
 report (after six months) and, oral and written accounts of their research (within one year of
 registration). At this stage a panel decides whether the student transfers onto the PhD route,
 continues to MPhil or is not allowed to continue. Subsequently reports are required on an annual
 basis. PGRs receive a mandatory minimum of 10 supervisions a year and complete an annual
 end-of-year report and assessment. These processes are recorded on the University’s Graduate
 Record of Achievement and Development (GRAD) section of the VLE and are monitored by
 each School’s PGR tutor and the Faculty Graduate School. Each PGR (full- and part-time) has
 access to £250 in research funding and an additional £200 for language training per annum.
 Additional financial support for research related activities is available through the Faculty and
 support for travel, research, and internships for WRoCAH-funded students are available through
 WRoCAH,

 Investment in infrastructure during the REF period has enabled the provision of dedicated
 postgraduate study spaces in which each PGR can access a desk and a computer and has
 access to a kitchen area and a printer. There is a weekly programme of research colloquia in
 which students and staff participate, an annual PGR symposium at the beginning of the second
 year of the doctorate, an annual PGR-led conference (supported with internal funds), and an
 annual practice-led symposium. PGRs are funded by their School to attend and present papers
 at international conferences and the PGR community has a very good record of papers
 published in both academic journals and conference proceedings. Art practice PGRs are very
 active in Land2 and EARN events both within the University and at other institutions in the
 networks such as the University of the West of England, the University of Northampton, the
 University of Hertfordshire and Southampton City Art Gallery (for Land2) and the Universities of

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Helsinki, Utrecht, Vienna, Malmö, London, Venice, Gothenburg, Brussels, and Dublin (for
 EARN). The Land2 network is hosted, and their website is maintained, by SoD. Land2 is an
 important strategic mechanism for ensuring the sustainability of practice-led research and PGRs
 in this area.

 The UoA provides support for each PGR to attend at least one international conference during
 their studies and students have attended a wide range of conferences including the IASDR, the
 European Academy of Design, The Congress of the International Colour Association, The
 International Congress on Medieval Studies (Kalamazoo, MI), Inter-Nation: EARN 2018, and
 The Design Research Society Conferences. PGR students have assisted and complemented
 staff in consultancy and collaborative research projects with clients including Unilever, Colgate,
 Abraham Moon & Sons, and St James’s University Hospital, Leeds. PGRs have the opportunity
 to be paid as teaching assistants in undergraduate, or demonstrators in undergraduate and
 taught postgraduate modules. This is monitored very closely to ensure that such activities are
 not deleterious to their academic progress. The award-winning journal parallax (housed in
 FAHACS) is edited by PGRs in consultation with staff advisory editors, providing them with
 professionalisation in all aspects of the editorial process as well as a possible venue for publication.
 PGRs have the option to apply for Higher Education Academy Associate Fellowships through
 the University’s OD&PL scheme as part of their professionalisation. They are also supported in
 applying to external bodies (AHRC, Arts Council) for further research support. Several PGRs
 (Hemingray, Belinfante, Stainforth, McGonigal) have subsequently been appointed as
 Lecturers or University Teaching Fellows at Leeds. Others have attained posts at the
 Universities of Aberdeen, Berkeley, Cambridge, Exeter, Keele, Leeds Beckett, Loughborough,
 Middlesex, Newcastle, Plymouth, South Africa, Trinity (Dublin), Tunghi (Taiwan), EHWA
 Women’s University (Seoul), Imperial College London, Inland Norway University of Applied
 Science, Leeds Arts University, Manchester Metropolitan, Open University, Queen’s University
 Belfast, Tallinn University of Technology, Institute of Contemporary Art (Graz), V&A, AkzoNobel
 UK, Mohum Aldridge Sykes UK, Rab UK, Surfachem UK, St James Hospital (Leeds).

 Additional workshops, reading groups, and a postgraduate research centre are provided by the
 Faculty, while CePRA provides training and network opportunities, as well as funding, for
 practice-based PGRs. For example, Interconnections brings together students from across the
 Faculty to share experiences and form academic and social connections. The Leeds Cultural
 Institute Postgraduate Partner Scheme enables PGRs to work with local organisations,
 developing professional skills benefitting local organisations and communities. The Cultural
 Institute was created specifically to increase pioneering research collaborations with creative
 sector partners, to widen cultural engagement and participation and to build the skills of our
 students. The Doctoral College (which supports and showcase the significant and diverse
 contribution PGRs make to the research profile and academic life of the University) offers
 interdisciplinary research nights, individual writing consultations, and peer mentoring. Research,
 Writing, and Professionalisation training are available through the University OD&PL, and the
 Library. The Language Centre offers bespoke support for international students.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income:
 The UoA has more than doubled its research income to £13,765,215 this REF period from
 £5,307,560 and there is widespread grant capture across all research groups and levels of staff.



                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We continue to attract substantial research funding from industry, research councils, and
 professional associations across the diverse range of disciplines we bring together (fine art
 practice and design practice, history of art, cultural studies, graphic design, information design,
 fashion industry and marketing studies, textile technology, colour technology, museum and
 heritage studies), reflecting the strong inter-disciplinary nature of the UoA. Industrial grants are
 an area of particular strength and have been awarded by a wide range of companies including
 Samsung (Westland, Cheung), Colgate (Westland), Stretchline (Russell), Henkel (Sumner),
 Unilever (Carr, Westland) H Dawson Sons and Co (Cassidy), Marks and Spencer (Goswami),
 Sigma-Aldrich (Blackburn), Lenzing (Carr), LG (Westland), Dyson (Mao, Russell), Mas
 Intimates (Blackburn), Procter & Gamble (Russell), Texon Nonwoven (Russell), AkzoNobel
 (Westland) and L’Òreal (Xiao), Carlsberg Foundation (Jackson).

 Funding from Research Councils and Learned Societies is also strong with awards from EPSRC
 (Ningtao, Russell, Tronci, Wilson, Willneff), BBSRC (Carr, Rigout, Blackburn, Tang), AHRC
 (Russell, Almond, Stones, Cassidy, Willneff, Graham, Westgarth, Cass, Knifton,
 Sternberg), Wellcome Trust (Russell), Leverhulme Trust (Pollock, Sternberg, Fukuoka),
 Japan Foundation (Fukuoka), British Academy (Prenowitz, Day, Sumner), Paul Mellon Centre
 (Westgarth), European Association for Jewish Studies (Frojmovic), Society for the Study of
 French History (Mainz), Furniture History Society and the Society of the History of Collecting
 (Westgarth). Additional support has also been received from the EU (Russell, Westland, Xiao,
 Tang, Wilson), Gatsby Foundation (Carr, Rea), Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (Carr),
 Innovate UK (Blackburn, Carr, Cassidy, Mao, Rigout, Russell, Stones), York Council
 (Graham).

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Research is supported at University level by the Brotherton Library, one of the foremost
 university research libraries in Europe, which has ‘designated’ status from the Museums,
 Libraries and Archives Council. The Brotherton holds over 2 million manuscripts and 2.8 million
 printed books. A designated subject librarian works with the unit in developing holdings in line
 with research strategy and provides specialist support and staff/PhD training. Particular use is
 made of its outstanding collection of rare books, manuscripts, and artists’ books which has been
 used for research purposes by almost all staff. Taylor is Champion of its Artists’ Book Collection,
 making it accessible and visible to public audiences, and Taylor and Thurston work with the
 Brotherton in the interpretation of the Artists’ Book and the Herbert Read Special Collections.
 Frojmovic is co-convenor of the ‘The Archive after Cecil Roth: Jewish Studies, Cultural History’
 and the Cecil Roth Collection seminar series, helping to increase access to the work of this
 pioneering Jewish historian. The Stanley and Audrey Burton Gallery (the University's Art Gallery)
 is used for research on its collections and as an exhibition space for both staff and PGRs.
 Important research support is also provided through Cultural Institute partnerships with the local
 archives and exhibition spaces of the Henry Moore Institute and Leeds Museums and Galleries
 (Karkov has published on their early medieval collection), the Royal Armouries, Yorkshire
 Sculpture Park, the Hepworth, Wakefield, and with Opera North. The University Cultural Institute
 and LAHRI support interdisciplinary research at University and Faculty level and are key
 facilitators of the unit’s ongoing contributions to the University’s Culture research theme, which
 uses cultural methods to tackle global problems such as environmental change, trauma, health,
 and political conflict. Graham leads the ‘Value’ strand of the Culture theme.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Individual staff make research use of the University International Textile Collection, led by Hann,
 (previously hosted by SoD) that is now part of University Special Collections and Galleries. It
 consists of world-wide materials, including Chinese Qing dynasty embroideries, Kashmiri
 shawls, Mediterranean and near eastern embroideries, block-printed cottons from Pakistan,
 Javanese batiks and ikats, Japanese textiles, West African weaves, 19th and 20th-century
 European textile samples, mid- 20th-century British furnishing fabrics, natural and man-made
 fibres and glass-plate teaching slides. The Marks and Spencer archive, located on the University
 campus, contains over 71,000 items dating from 1884 to the present. The collection, which
 includes artefacts and written, photographic and digital records, provides a unique insight into
 one of the most important and iconic UK retailers and is a valuable research resource. The
 Yorkshire Fashion Archive is hosted in, and curated by, the SoD and provides a publicly
 accessible collection of haute-couture, fashion garments and everyday clothing. It provides a
 historical and cultural record of Yorkshire life and documents clothing produced, purchased and
 worn by Yorkshire folk throughout the 20th Century. The Edward Boyle Library collection
 supports research on textiles and fashion.

 UoA Research and Impact committees are chaired by SoD and FAHACS DoRs. Each discipline
 and research centre, and PGRs have representation, reporting to and providing feedback from
 their constituencies and enabling staff and PGR input into research strategy. These committees
 align with, report to, and provide information from Faculty and University research structures.
 Research funding applications within the UoA are supported at University- and Faculty-level by
 the University Research and Innovation Service (RIS), LAHRI, the AHC research and finance
 team (FRO). OD&PL impact specialists and the Faculty Impact Officer provide advice and
 guidance at all stages of the grant process. Both LAHRI and RIS offer dedicated staff training
 and/or support processes for key schemes and funders. All research involving human
 participants is required to undergo ethical review and to obtain ethical approval before the
 research can commence. This applies to all types of research ranging from undergraduate
 dissertations to PhDs to externally funded research grants. The University Research Ethics
 Committee (UREC) considers matters of general principle and policy on research ethics. It
 provides a framework of delegated authority within which the likely benefits of research can be
 considered in relation to the potential risks and within which research will be conducted in
 accordance with the law, with University values and with the highest standards of academic and
 professional integrity. All cases are brought to the Faculty Research Ethics Committee which
 reports to UREC. Graham holds regular ethics training, drawing on her research into community
 participation.

 The UoA has made substantial investments in estates and infrastructure during the REF period
 with a total investment of £17.6M. In the SoD this created refurbished art-practice studios, a new
 textile testing laboratory, and new studios for Fashion and Fashion Marketing, and a new
 reception area in 2015, followed in 2018 by a new Experience Design Laboratory, improved
 Colour Technology laboratories, a new wet-chemistry laboratory, and refurbished spaces for
 Textile Design. Investment of £7.6M allowed a refurbished single purpose-designed site to be
 developed for FAHACS adjacent to the SoD and at the heart of the campus, facilitating
 increased possibilities for research activities (including international conferences, symposia,
 seminars, exhibitions and receptions) and collaborations for both staff and students. In addition
 to dedicated study and research spaces, PGRs now have access to: iMac and PC computer
 suites for video editing, animation and image manipulation; printmaking workshops for etching,
 relief and screen printing; a woodworking and casting area; a photography darkroom for film

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing and printing; digital and 3D printing facilities; individual and shared studio spaces;
 Project Space, a dedicated exhibition space supports staff and PGRs. There is also a dedicated
 team of experienced technicians who assist and advise staff and students. The creation of in-
 house space for exhibitions has enabled PGRs to exhibit their work during major international
 conferences such as the annual Leeds International Medieval Congress, and Citation – the
 EARN 2019 Conference. The new FAHACS building provides space and technical support for 6
 active research centres (The Artists’ Writing and Publication Centre; Centre for Critical Studies in
 Museums, Galleries and Heritage; Centre for Study of the Arts & Antiques Market; Centre for
 Critical Materialist Studies; the Centre for Audio Visual Experimentation; the Centre for Jewish
 Studies) as well as Wild Pansy Press and the journal parallax.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
     1. Collaboration, networks and partnerships with key research users, beneficiaries or
          audiences
 The structures and support mechanisms in the UoA, Faculty and University described in Section
 2 have enabled us to achieve our strategic aims of promoting greater collaboration within our
 institution but also nationally and internationally, and of increasing our level of engagement with
 external partners.

 Working with NGOs and community groups to raise awareness and change attitudes:
 Cassidy has led the development of revitalisation strategies, and the creation of a taxonomy
 (available as a set of cards for workshops and as an online tool) for use by designers working
 with communities through the Design Roots/Routes project. Blackburn was co-founder and
 Director of RITE Group (Reducing the Impact of Textiles on the Environment), a non-profit
 industry association which aims to provide advice and fact-based information to minimise the
 negative environmental impact of the production, use and disposal of textiles and
 apparel. Stones AHRC Design Fellowship (2014–2016) enabled her to work alongside Public
 Health England to publish a set of public health infographic guidelines that are the number 1
 resource on Google for Public Health infographics and have been accessed thousands of times.
 Graham is PI on the AHRC funded Bradford’s National Museum: Methods for re-founding
 ‘inter/national’ museums translocally, which works to maximise the social, economic, and
 community connections between a national museum and the local northern community in which
 it is located. Taylor is Trustee and Technical Director of the not-for-profit Appleby REMOTE
 Cinema, Cumbria, where he works to unite rural communities through movie screenings and
 related events. Fukuoka (with Leverhulme Visiting Fellow Pauline Yao from M+ Hong Kong) led
 a series of forums at non-HE institutions across the UK on contemporary East Asian art and its
 relation to the generally Eurocentric categories and values of contemporary art.

 Shaping policy:
 Staff work to shape policy locally, nationally and internationally in a wide range of areas. For
 example, Westgarth is Chair of the Leeds Art Fund; council member and Trustee of the
 Furniture History Society; a Board Member of the Museums and Galleries History Group; and
 Committee Member of the International Art Market Association. Graham is on the Heritage 2020
 steering group, the City of York Council, and was a member of the advisory group for the British
 Museum’s Object Journey project. Checketts collaborates with the V&A on ‘Encounters on the
 Shop Floor’, which brings together artists, historians, curators and surgeons to investigate the
 importance of embodied knowledge and its cultural, social, and economic potential. Sumner has
 advised the government’s Environmental Audit Committee on the environmental and ethical
 implications of ‘fast fashion’. His article on sustainability and fast fashion at The Conversation


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was read over 22,000 times. Blackburn advises The Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals
 (ZDHC) Foundation.

 Working with cultural and creative industries:
 In addition to shaping policy, our academics work to enrich culture locally and globally with
 research that ranges from industrial design practice to philosophical critique. Tucker co-hosted
 LAND2 a Cross, Multi, Inter, Trans conference in Sheffield in collaboration with the Association
 for the Study of Literature and Environment. The Land2 network has led to related work with
 cultural stakeholders, for example, her collaboration with the poet Harriet Tarlo and their joint
 work on the Humberston Fitties. Thoma is also a contributor to Land2 working specifically on
 landscape- and place-oriented art and nomadic dwelling. As part of an Arts Council funded year-
 long project Gardner undertook research at the Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Centre
 (Chapel Allerton Hospital, Leeds). A body of her drawings which came out of the research
 premiered in a newly refurbished building for the opening of the Leeds National Institute for
 Health Research. Her work is and are now permanently sited there. McGonigal is co-founder
 and co-director of Corridor 8: Contemporary Art and Writing in the North of England, which
 works with local artists and cultural organisations to support and promote the arts in the North.
 Thurston is a mentor and co-convenor of the ‘New Writing with New Contemporaries’
 programme, and mentor at S1 Gallery, Sheffield. Harrison Moore has contributed to the HENI
 talks film on William Morris (2018) and BBC4’s Victorian Sensations. Bristol featured in films on
 Thomas Chippendale and on Nostell Priory’s Dolls House for the National Trust. Rea is Lead
 Curator at the JK Randle Yoruba Heritage Centre, and a Board Member of the JADEAS Trust in
 Nigeria. Fatehrad organised and hosted Citation, a 2-day international EARN conference which
 explored the ways in which artist-researchers or curatorial practices take positions on or
 emphasise shifting temporalities within the historical, social, political and economic contexts of
 contemporary visual culture. Day’s work on Aesthetic Form & Uneven Modernity (with Birkbeck
 College, University of London, the Universidade de São Paulo’s Centro de estudos Demanche e
 Formação de Sistemas Simbólicos) examines the social contradictions that emerge through
 aesthetic activity in two contrasting sites of modernization (Brazil and UK). Graham is PI on the
 AHRC funded Bradford’s National Museum: Methods for re-founding ‘inter/national’ museums
 translocally, which works with the museum to maximise the social, economic, and community
 connections between it and its local northern community. Taylor works on the cultural, social
 and economic value of artists’ books, collaborating with the British Library and chairing their
 Artists Books Now: PLACE symposium.

 Working with schools, educationalists, and practitioners to change attitudes and inform
 practices:
 Harrison Moore works with schools and teachers nationally and internationally. And has
 addressed an All-Party Parliamentary Group on her research into creative education in schools.
 Through her work with ARTiculations she encourages the study of art and art history and
 developed Discover ARTiculations, a Leeds version of the national and international competition.
 She is a judge for SPOKE, a film-making competition for young art historians and works with the
 AAH outreach programme ‘Plan, Prepare, Provide’, a residential programme for teachers.
 Taylor, Thurston and Lewandowski lead the Artists’ Writing and Publication Centre which was
 founded to enable collaborations between artists, teachers, editors, critics, and curators with
 partners (including the British Library, V&A, and Tate) with the aim of informing research
 directions and reception in this sub-field of artistic practice. Mowitt has an ongoing collaboration
 with the Winter School of the Centre for Humanities Research, University of the Western Cape


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to reconceptualise the ethical relationship between art and the humanities against the backdrop
 of rapidly changing world of work, politics and technology.

     2. Wider contributions to the economy and society not captured in impact case
        studies
 The success of our strategy to increase the level of engagement with external partners is further
 evidenced through a wide range of impact activities with diverse communities and publics taking
 place beyond our impact case studies.

 Our Centres host regular programmes of events which are open to the public and engage with
 diverse partners and audiences. For example, in 2018-19 the Centre for Jewish Studies
 convened the ‘The Archive after Cecil Roth: Jewish Studies, Cultural History’ a series of
 lectures, seminars, and discussions designed to increase access to Roth’s work. The Centre for
 the Study of the Art and Antiques Market organised a performance of the stage play ‘Quinney’s’
 at The Witham, Barnard Castle (2020), as part of the AHRC Year of the Dealer project. The
 Centre for Audio-Visual Experimentation organised ‘Listening: After Paulina Oliveros’ (2017), an
 international conference and series of workshops and public events, in collaboration with the
 Tetley and Opera North.

 Beyond our centres, staff regularly serve as consultants or commentators for a range of media
 and organisations. This has impacted upon public discourses about fast fashion, the circular
 economy and the arts. Such dissemination highlights the relevance of our research to the non-
 academic world. Staff research has been featured in The Washington Post (Dallabona), BBC 2
 (Westland, Crawford), BBC 4 (Harrison Moore) BBC Radio 4 (Westland), BBC Radio 5
 (Sumner), BBC Radio 3 (Sumner, Westland), Channel 5 (Blackburn), BBC 1 (Blackburn),
 BBC News 24 (Blackburn), The Guardian (Blackburn, Westland), New Scientist (Blackburn),
 The Observer (Blackburn), HENI-Films – Harrison Moore was one of the first art historians to
 do a film for HENI, the 2nd most internationally viewed of their suite of films on YouTube. The
 film is now played as part of the permanent interpretation at Standen House and Garden and
 features on the National Trust's main webpages.

 Staff have been consultants or advisors at and including: Academic consultant to the University
 of Hull (Almond); Advisory Board for Contemporary British Painting (Tucker); Fine Art,
 University of Kent (Gardner); The Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Foundation
 (Blackburn); Colour Science Research Unit, Chulalongkorn University (Thailand) (Westland);
 Visiting Professor at School of Design, Huazhong University of Science and Technology (China)
 (Westland); Visiting Professor at School of Computing, University of East Anglia (Westland);
 Subject Leader for the Bahrain National Authority for Qualifications and Quality Assurance of
 Education & Training (Stones); Member of International Advisory Board for Colour and Imaging
 Institute, Tsinghua University (China) (Westland); Senior Adjunct Scientist at Dental School at
 the University of Texas (USA) (Westland); Adjunct Professor at Shanghai Jai Tung University
 (China) (Hann); Guest Lecturer (Creative Pattern Cutting) at MMU (Almond); Visiting Professor,
 Asia University, Taichung (Taiwan) (Hann); Adjunct Professor, Donghua University (Shanghai)
 (Hann). Staff have acted as expert witnesses for: a copyright case involving a well-known
 fashion designer (Cassidy); expert witness for Serious Organised Crime Unit (Blackburn); US
 trial on dye pollution in watercourses in the state of Georgia (Blackburn). Staff have been media
 consultants for The Washington Post (Dallabona), BBC 2 (Westland), BBC Radio 4
 (Westland), BBC Radio 5 (Sumner), BBC Radio 3 (Sumner, Westland), Channel 5
 (Blackburn), BBC 1 (Blackburn), BBC News 24 (Blackburn), The Guardian (Blackburn,

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Westland), New Scientist (Blackburn), The Observer (Blackburn), The Independent
 (Westland).

      3. Evidence of the unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Staff contribute to the sustainability of the discipline by undertaking a wide range of leadership
 roles in national and international organisations and associations. Morgan is president of the
 Association Ici et Ailleurs: pour une Philosophie Nomade. Frojmovic coordinated the Arts strand
 for the Quadrennial Conference of the European Association for Jewish Studies (2018), and the
 Jewish Studies Strand for the Leeds International Congress on Medieval Studies (1996–2018).
 Prenowitz is co-director of the Cixous Seminar Publication Project. Carr and Blackburn are
 Liverymen of the Worshipful Company of Dyers and Russell, Liveryman of the Worshipful
 Company of Clothworkers. Xiao is Technical Committee chair for CIE TC 1-92 skin colour
 database, TC 8-17 Method for evaluating colour difference between 3D colour objects, and co-
 chair for JTC 16 Validity of chromatic adaption. Westland was President of the charity Society of
 Dyers and Colourists (2018/19) and Cheung was Vice President (2018/19) and President
 (2019/2020) of the International Colour Association. Hann is President of the International
 Textiles and Costume Congress (ITCC). Rhodes is a committee member of the UK Colour
 Group.

 Staff act on Editorial or Advisory Boards for: The Design Collection Journal (Almond), The
 International Journal of the Arts in Society (Almond), Textiles and Clothing Sustainability
 (Blackburn), Coloration Technology (Blackburn, Cheung), Textile Progress (Cassidy), Fibre
 Biomechanics and Informatics (Cassidy), Global Fashion Marketing (Cassidy), Journal of the
 International Colour Association (Cheung), Journal of Imaging Science and Technology
 (Cheung), Journal of Information Display (Cheung), Color Culture and Science Journal
 (Cheung), Journal of Natural Fibres (Hann), Journal of Applied Science (Hann), Journal of the
 Textile Institute (Hann), Journal Sosioteknologi Indonesia (Hann), Ars Textrina (Hann), Visible
 Language (Lonsdale), Journal of Fashion Marketing and Management (Sinha), Color Research
 and Application (Xiao), Nostell Priory (Bristol), Art History (Checketts), Brill Middle Ages series
 (Frojmovic), advisory and editorial boards of the European Association of Asian Art &
 Archaeology (Fukuoka), New Encounters: Art, Cultures, Concepts series for I. B. Taurus
 (Pollock), Journal of Visual Culture (Pollock), Rethinking History, and Subjectivity (Pollock),
 Museum & Society Journal (Graham), Art & the Public Sphere (Day), Historical Materialism
 (Day), Selva (Day), Corridor 8 (Thurston), Information as Material (Thurston), Rawlinson
 Centre for Anglo-Saxon and Manuscript Studies series, Western Michigan University, (Karkov
 through 2020), Manchester UP Medieval Literature and Culture series (Karkov), Journal of the
 British Archaeological Association (Karkov), Medieval Ecocriticisms (Karkov), Leeds Studies in
 English (Karkov), Old English Newsletter (Karkov), Arts-Open Access Journal, Basel,
 Switzerland (Taylor), Centro de Investigacion en Artes, Universitas Miguel Hernández
 (Lewandowski), Kentler International Drawing Space, New York (Lewandowski), Erland
 Williamson Art Fellowship (McGonigal), Utopian Studies (Morgan), Société Charles Fourier
 (Morgan), Cultural Critique (Mowitt), Kronos (Mowitt), Perspectives on the Art Market
 (Bloomsbury) (Wesgarth), Colnaghi Journal (Westgarth), University of London’s ‘Shakespeare
 and Royal Collections’ AHRC project (Westgarth), Oxford Literary Review (Prenowitz). Engh
 and Prenowitz are executive editors of parallax. Thurston is a mentor with ACME Studios
 Graduate Bursaries (London). Graham collaborates on training with Historic England/Urban
 Design, the National Trust, and the Smithsonian (2019). Knifton, Sinha, Harrison Moore, and
 Stones are members of the AHRC Peer Review College.



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In this REF period staff have been external examiners for PhDs at the following Universities:
 Anglia Ruskin, Brunel, Chelsea University of the Arts, East Anglia, Eastern Finland, Edinburgh,
 Essex, Glasgow, Gloucester, Granada, Griffith University (Australia), Heidelberg, Heriot-Watt,
 Huddersfield, Hull, Kings College London, Kingston, Lancaster, Manchester, Manchester
 Metropolitan, Maribor University (Slovenia), National University of Singapore, Norwich University
 of the Arts, Northumbria, Paris 8, Reading, Rennes, SOAS, Sussex, UCL, University of the Arts
 London, Warburg Institute, University of the West of Scotland, University of Western England,
 Winchester, Worcester, York, and York St John.

     4. Support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research
 The vast majority of research within the UoA is inherently interdisciplinary so requires no special
 support system. Bide researches at the intersection of industrial history and cultural geography.
 She was awarded a Research Fellowship at the Harry Ransom Center at the University of
 Texas, Austin, where she worked on a project about historic film and theatre costume design. In
 the area of Fine Art practice our researchers have made important contributions to both research
 and the local cultural economy. Tucker co-hosted LAND2 a Cross, Multi, Inter, Trans
 conference collaboration with the Association for the Study of Literature and Environment, and
 has collaborated with the poet Harriet Tarlo in work on the Humberston Fitties. Thoma’s
 research explores art practice in relation to notions of place, environment, and nomadism. As
 part of an Arts Council funded year-long project Gardner combined her practice-based research
 with work at the Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Centre (Chapel Allerton Hospital, Leeds),
 resulting in a body of drawings displayed in the National Institute for Health Research in Leeds.
 Engh, Mowitt, Pollock and Prenowitz are members of the World Gender International
 Research Network. As part of the research group Aesthetic Form & Uneven Modernity (Univesity
 of Leeds, Birkbeck College, University of London, the Universidade de São Paulo’s Centro de
 estudos Demanche e Formação de Sistemas Simbólicos ) Day works across the disciplines of
 art history, economic history, and urban studies. Westland worked with Colgate and Unilever to
 develop more accurate ways to measure tooth colour that led to new tooth-whitening
 technologies and products (including toothpaste that can whiten teeth in one application).

     5. Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
 The UoA response to environmental and health priorities has been particularly strong. Russell’s
 Surface Skins is used in hospitals to automatically spray hands with antimicrobial solution upon
 contact with door handles. Obesity prevention is being tackled through information design by
 Lonsdale and Tang (in collaboration with the School of Psychology). Burkinshaw’s research
 led to the creation of Xeros Technologies, a company which develops virtually waterless
 washing machines, saving nearly 900,000,000 litres of water over five years. Blackburn is
 founding director of Keracol Limited which develops cosmetic products for skin and hair care
 from plant sources. Russell founded NIRI, a spin-out company specialising in nonwoven
 materials that has successfully completed 450 co-development projects with more than 200
 clients. Russell and Almond lead the large AHRC creative cluster (Future Fashion Factory:
 £5.4M), an R&D partnership that also includes Huddersfield University, London College of Art
 and Textile Centre of Excellence. With over 160 industrial partners Future Fashion Factory aims
 to address three key challenges for the UK fashion and textile industry: digitally connected and
 sustainable processes, immersive digital communication and data analytics, and skills and
 education. Hemingray worked with Lenzing fibres in Austria to help develop an economically
 viable model for increased use of sustainable man-made fibre. Lonsdale is working on
 information design of leaflets that prepare patients for colonoscopy. Stones’ AHRC Design
 Fellowship (2014–2016) enabled her to work alongside Public Health England to publish a set of
 public health infographic guidelines that are the number 1 resource on Google for Public Health

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infographics and have been accessed thousands of times. Stones was also selected for and
 acted on the AHRC Expert Review Panel for the Covid-19 Rapid Response Call and is working
 on a COVID rapid-response Innovate UK award to develop and deploy non-contact hand
 sanitisers.


     6. Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research
         base
 Honours, awards, and keynote talks are a measure of research esteem and impact on our fields.
 Staff have delivered numerous keynotes and invited lectures, amongst which are: Blackburn at
 the Society of Cosmetic Chemists 71st Annual Conference (2017), Merck Green Chemistry
 Symposium (2018), Innovations in Chemistry Towards Sustainable Urban Living Conference,
 Toronto (2016); Cheung at the 50th Annual Convention of the Artificial Intelligence and the
 Simulation of Behaviour (2014); Fatehrad at AAH (2019), University of Arts, Venice (2018); Day
 at Universidad Nova de Lisboa (2017), Courtauld (2017), International Architectural Humanities
 Research Association (2014); Hann at the International Textiles and Costume Congress (ITCC)
 Istanbul (2015), International Textiles and Costume Congress, Bandung (2017); Knifton Textile
 Society Conference (2018); Rea at the African Studies Conference (2019); Westgarth at the
 Minneapolis Institute of Art (2016); Graham at the Universities of Massachusetts (2017) and
 Turku (2017); Harrison Moore at the University of Calgary (2020-covid delayed); Karkov
 delivered the annual Toller Lecture, University of Manchester (2017) and Jarrow Lecture (2020-
 covid delayed), and keynotes at N/EMICS UCL (2017), and conferences at Durham University
 (2016), Oxford University (2016), and Stanford University (2015); Mowitt at the Universities of
 Frankfurt (2014), Cardiff (2017), Basel (2019), and Centre for Humanities Research, University
 of the Western Cape (2015–19); Pollock at the Tate (2016), Oslo University (2017), AAH
 conference (2018), Stanford University (2019), Freud Museum (2019); Stones at the European
 Public Health Conference, Stockholm (2017); Taylor at the Theorem conference (Anglia Ruskin
 University 2017) and Artist’s Books Now: PLACE symposium (British Library, 2018); Tucker at
 Of the Earth: a conference exploring art, design, writing and the environment (2014); Westland
 at XI Congreso Nacional del Color, Spanish Colour Group, Ourense (2015).

 Staff have received the following honours and awards: Blackburn received the Silver Medal for
 ‘Prolonged contributions to education and academic research from the Society of Dyers and
 Colourists (2016); Blackburn was elected Fellow of The Society of Dyers and Colourists (2017);
 Blackburn also received the Society of Dyers and Colourists Centenary Medal for the best
 paper in the journal Coloration Technology, for two consecutive years in 2017 (awarded 2018)
 and 2018 (awarded 2019); Carr received a Silver Medal from the Worshipful Company of
 Weavers for “outstanding contribution to textile education and research”; Tucker won the
 ‘Scenes of Everyday Life’ category for the Jackson’s Painting Prize 2020 (6 awards were made
 out of 5634 international submissions); Karkov is a Fellow of the English Association, and was
 awarded an international visitor scholarship at the Humanities Institute, Stanford (2015); Bristol
 is a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries; Day was a resident fellow at Maumaus, Lisbon (2016),
 and was a Getty Library Fellow (2019); Mowitt is a Fellow of the Institute of Advanced Study,
 Princeton, and was Mercator Fellow at Johan Wolfgang Goethe Universität (2019); Rea was a
 fellow at the Sainsbury Research Unit (2017); Thurston was Visiting Fellow in Contemporary
 Writing at the University of Pennsylvania (2016), Visiting Research Fellow at MIT (2020), artist in
 residence at the Irish Museum of Modern Art (2014), and was awarded the Paul Hamlyn
 Foundation award (2020); Stainforth was awarded postdoctoral research fellowships at the
 Universities of Edinburgh and Melbourne (2018); Pollock is a Fellow of the Art History
 Association and received honorary doctorates from the Courtauld (2019), University of Tallinn

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2019), and is a member of the Royal Flemish Academy of Science and the Arts. Pollock also
 won the Holberg Prize (2020) awarded by the government of Norway for her outstanding
 scholarship in and profound influence on the discipline of Art History and related fields, and for
 her role in the creation of feminist art history as an academic field.




                                                                                              Page 21
