Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: C14 Geography and Environmental Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UOA structure
 Research activities in this UOA span the overarching theme of Global Environmental Change
 and represent all staff with significant responsibility for research within the
 Department of Geography and Geology. The Department has 10 such staff, all 1.0 FTE. While
 relatively small, the Department is highly collegial, and well-balanced with a blend of early-
 career, mid-career and senior researchers, fostering enthusiastic research collaboration. Also,
 the Department, like its parent University, is relatively young, bringing a creative and modern
 perspective to conceiving research and enabling impact. A diverse range of research
 topics is investigated; from historical reconstruction of long-term climate records, focusing on
 volcano and flood events, to present-day monitoring of physical environments, such as
 coastlines, wetlands and forests, and society’s role in environmental change, including
 disaster recovery and palm oil consumption.

 Research objectives
 Key priorities identified in REF 2014 were to:

    1. Enhance the UOA’s profile by increasing the volume, quality and impact
    of international research activity.
    2. Improve the vitality and sustainability of the UOA by growing the staff research
         community, embedding research at the heart of departmental life.
    3. Increase external research funding applications to sustain research.
    4. Grow the postgraduate research community.

 It may be noted, in REF 2014 the constituency of the UOA was different, involving staff from
 both the Department of Geography and the Department of Biology, now
 a separate UOA. Nonetheless, these priorities have remained central to UOA research
 development.

 1. The UOA’s international standing has grown noticeably since 2014, boosted especially
 through substantially increased volume of high-quality research output. While in REF 2014, the
 (combined) UOA had a total pool of 29 papers suitable for REF submission (refereed journal
 papers etc.), in REF 2021 this number (for the Geography and Geology Department
 alone) stands at 86.

 2. This gear-change in research productivity stems from both strategic appointment of new
 research-active staff and enhanced research support. This has led to a larger and stronger
 research-active staff base (for the Department, six submitted in REF 2014; now 10),
 thus reinforcing UOA sustainability. More directly, research has been embedded firmly in routine
 departmental life, encouraged via appointment of a new, research-active, Head of Department,
 and assisted by the creation of a new coordinating position, Research Leader. Also,
 a new research strategy has been formulated, embedding a research culture into all aspects of
 departmental life. For example, research business is now routinely supported (individual
 research mentors appointed, annual individual research plan reviews), monitored (quarterly
 departmental research meetings, annual departmental research away days) and
 encouraged (aspirations of two journal outputs per staff member per year, two departmental PhD
 completions per year).

 3. As the staff base and volume of activity have grown, applications for external research funding
 have followed suit. In the present REF cycle, applications exceeding £2.5m have been made to
 major funding bodies such as European Research Council, Leverhulme Trust, Natural
 Environment Research Council (NERC), Newton Fund, Royal Society and Wellcome Trust; plus
 a host of small funders including British Ecology Society (BES), Manchester

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Geographical Society, Natural England and Royal Geographical Society (RGS). This push
 towards external funding has been achieved through enhanced staff mentoring, with senior
 researchers providing valuable assistance for ECRs. Also, the University’s excellent
 Research Investment Fund (RIF) has proved a vital stepping-stone for external grant
 applications, facilitating small pump-priming projects, but also providing valuable practice at
 grant writing and facilitating third-party review of proposals. In total, since 2014, six members of
 staff have secured 12 competitive internal grants worth £123k in total.

 4. Internal schemes, plus strategic external collaborations, have also led to great success in
 growing the postgraduate research community. In REF 2014, the UOA had three PhD
 completions, but over the present REF cycle, departmental staff have been involved in
 supervising a total of 23 PhD students. Increasing the PGR community is crucial for
 future UOA growth, but this can be challenging under the
 current government PhD funding regime. Thus, to thrive, our strategy targeted the competitive
 internal University’s Graduate Teaching Assistant scheme, winning ten studentships over the
 last six years. At the same time, staff members have pursued research collaborations leading
 to 12 external supervisory positions at eight UK and overseas universities.

 Future research activities will follow objectives laid down in the new UOA Research Strategy.
 Our overarching research philosophy is captured in the precept of this strategy document:
 “Members of the department will undertake research with the fundamental goals of advancing
 knowledge and serving society, but also to fulfil personal research curiosity. Retaining the latter
 as a key driver of research activity ensures that research remains a pleasure, not a chore, from
 which all research benefits can flow.” This unequivocal statement is intended
 to guarantee organic development of research, ensuring ongoing staff engagement and, thus,
 growth and sustainability.

 The strategy precept is followed by a series of eight principal aims (e.g. “Foster a thriving
 research environment in which all academic staff members are research-active”) and then a list
 of 16 procedures to achieve these aims (e.g. “Support individual staff research development
 through annual meetings with research mentors to discuss three-year research plans”, “Manage
 teaching and administration workloads effectively to ensure all research-active staff have routine
 opportunity to progress research”). While using this general Research Strategy to frame our
 overall approach to research, to achieve desired progression over the next five years, we have
 set four key priorities:

        1.       Consolidate research activity to targeted Global Environmental Change sub-
        themes of, for instance, coastal geomorphology, peatland conservation, forest
        sustainability and geohazard response, to strengthen the depth of our research base. As
        a relatively small UOA, including diverse subject areas, some degree of coalescence is
        essential to grow research quality and reach.
        2.       Increase research income, thus growing overall research
        production, capacity and sustainability.
        3.       Strengthen interdisciplinary research collaborations, including exploiting
        internal mechanisms such as the new Data Science STEM Research Centre and the
        Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR), but also via external and international
        partnerships, to increase innovation within our investigations and the relevance of our
        findings.
        4.       Increase active engagement, including research co-production,
        with stakeholders and beneficiaries to embed societal benefit at the heart of our research
        activity.

 Research impact
 In light of priority 1, any new research endeavour must consider potential impact and
 beneficiaries at the outset, providing a clear statement on expected outcomes. All staff undergo
 annual research planning meetings to review progress and identify future priorities, and these


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 meetings require a clear statement on research impact, including a review of impact-achieved
 work and potential impact related to future work.

 Our approach towards research collaboration has shifted over the current REF cycle, with far
 greater emphasis on early engagement and co-production of research with the stakeholder
 community, rather than separation of academic research followed by stakeholder dissemination
 and engagement. Examples of this practice include Aplin’s research on ‘Increasing palm oil
 sustainability to conserve Malaysia’s tropical peatland (case study 1) – where key
 stakeholders from the Malaysian government’s Forestry Department and the land management
 NGO, Global Environment Center, engaged extensively with the research undertaken and co-
 authored journal papers. Other examples of research co-production in the UOA include Jones.
 A’s work on flood hazard assessment, where research outputs have been co-authored with the
 major user organisation, the Environment Agency.

 Delgado Fernández is bringing stakeholders into research debates via a series of knowledge
 exchange projects and workshops. For instance, in current research on Coastal dune evolution
 and management (case study 2) – workshops on ‘Coastal Dune Dynamics and Evolution’
 (2018) and ‘Coastal Resilience and Adaptation’ (2019), involved stakeholder
 organisations including National Trust, Natural England and Sefton Council. Indeed,
 this activity has seen Delgado Fernández invited by the National Trust to take the formal role of
 ‘Critical Friend’ and to sit on their Stakeholder Group, thus providing direct guidance on their
 coastal management operations. She also collaborates with coastal management agencies in
 Gran Canaria, Spain, engaging with government bodies to improve management of the
 Maspalomas dune field. Moses leads the Newton-funded Thai Coast project, developed in
 collaboration with the Thailand Government’s Department for Marine and Coastal Resources,
 ensuring the research outcomes align with their policy needs around better understanding of
 coastal vulnerability.

 The UOA has bid successfully to the University’s competitive Impact and Knowledge Exchange
 Fund (IKEF), with Delgado Fernández receiving support to facilitate the extension and
 realisation of impact from her body of work on coastal management in
 Sefton. Broader University support has included bespoke UOA research impact training courses
 by the Research Impact Manager as part of departmental research away days,
 plus targeted events such as a panel discussion on ‘Bringing an interdisciplinary perspective in
 making your research impactful: a round table conversation’ at which Aplin was an
 invited speaker.

 Interdisciplinarity
 Geography lends itself to interdisciplinarity, and UOA research activity involves
 many such examples of research collaboration, both within the Department and further afield
 with external partners and disciplines. In one project, Aplin and Delgado Fernández have
 developed an interdisciplinary collaboration to exploit geospatial methodologies (Aplin) for
 coastal investigation (Delgado Fernández). This project, supported by NERC, extends further to
 include University co-investigators from Biology (ecology of coastal habitats) and Computer
 Science (deep learning analysis), plus external collaborators (University of Nottingham, Ulster
 University) and beneficiaries (National Trust, Natural England, Sefton Council). Jones, A. is part
 of an interdisciplinary project entitled ‘Science, society and environment in the First Millennium
 CE’ led by Durham University’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS). Moses’s Thai Coast
 project integrates climate science, geomorphology, socio-economics, health and wellbeing
 science, and geo-information technology to improve understanding of hydro-meteorological
 hazard occurrence on Thailand’s coastal zone and the ways in which governance and
 institutional arrangements mitigate their impact.

 The UOA is pursuing various routes to extend interdisciplinary activity. The Department has
 strong research links with Biology, including new interdisciplinary projects, supported by the
 University, on ‘Satellite mapping of mosquito habitats’ and ‘Cabo Verde Hypersaline
 environments’. Recently, the University founded a new Data Science STEM Research Centre,

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Geography and Geology is one of three main contributors, the other two being Biology and
 Computer Science. This has quickly yielded new interdisciplinary projects and a growing
 community of co-supervised PhD projects such as ‘Development of an adaptive quality of
 service to enable spatial and temporal measurement of environmental factors’ and ‘Modelling
 the distribution of Miombo woodland using satellite remote-sensed data’. The University’s
 ISR provides an interdisciplinary platform to integrate various interests and perspectives on
 human wellbeing and policy. Geography is contributing to relevant ISR themes, in
 particular sustainability, where Aplin is Co-
 Director of SustainNET, the University’s new sustainability network, and contributed
 to the inaugural ‘Sustainability in the Region’ knowledge exchange event in 2019.

 Open research
 The Department is committed to developing and pursuing open research. We have made
 several successful applications to the University’s Open Access Fund to support publication
 of work in strategically important areas, such as research involving countries on the ODA
 list where local beneficiaries may not have access to the latest resources due to publisher
 paywalls. Of 81 refereed journal papers published by UOA staff since 2014, 78 are OA
 compliant, of which 29 are gold OA. At the recent Open Research Week (hosted by EHU,
 Liverpool and John Moores universities), our GTA, Kwame Awuah, participated in a
 session regarding DORA and equity, and acted as a panellist responding to points raised in the
 talk by Stephen Curry, Chair of DORA.

 The UOA is committed to full research transparency, and staff routinely deposit research data on
 open access repositories, including the Edge Hill Research Data Repository, following FAIR
 principles (findable, accessible, interoperable, re-usable). Egan has deposited data retrieved
 from sediment cores of Moss Lake, Washington, USA, related to her
 2016 Quaternary Science Reviews paper; and Delgado Fernández has made data available
 from a field experiment at Devil's Hole, Merseyside, UK, published in Journal
 of Geophysical Research in 2018. In addition to the Edge Hill repository,
 other public repositories are used in line with subject standards, and according to funder and
 publisher requirements. Jones, C. has submitted over 50 fire activity records from her woodland
 fire history research to the Global Palaeofire Working Group which provides free access to a
 global fire record database for research and public use; and JE has shared a series of her Moss
 Lake data sets on Pangaea open access data repository. UOA staff are also involved in major
 initiatives to facilitate and promote public access to science data. Moses is coastal change work
 package co-lead in European Marine Observation and Data Network (EMODNet), the ‘gateway
 to marine data in Europe’, which aims to collate, harmonise and release data for the purposes of
 policy making and planning.

 Staff are widely engaged in development and exploitation of open source software and tools for
 their research and to enable wider exploitation and reuse by the research and user
 communities. For instance, Cortés and Delgado Fernández use C programming language
 and R software environment respectively for geochemical and
 coastal modelling; and Egan and Jones,C. use Past (statistical software), Psimpoll (for creating
 pollen/diatom diagrams) and OxCal (for age depth modelling) for palaeo reconstruction
 research.

 Research integrity
 The UOA conducts its research with openness and integrity, paying careful heed to all ethical,
 legal and professional considerations. Integrity is built into our approach, with respect for the
 people and places who are integral to our work. Any and all research endeavours are subject, at
 the outset, to full ethical review, first via a Department Research Ethics Committee, and
 then through the University’s Science or Social Sciences Research Ethics Committee. Naturally,
 this includes consideration of all international frameworks for research ethics such as the
 Nagoya protocol. For instance, Aplin’s University QR Global Challenges Research
 Fund (GCRF) projects on mosquito habitat mapping in Africa were reviewed rigorously to
 determine Nagoya requirements. All UOA staff have attended training courses on aspects of

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research integrity, including GDPR, research ethics, research governance, copyright,
 and equality and diversity. We believe that our approach to responsible metrics, not
 using indicators as a proxy for quality, to underpin recruitment and promotion, or to allocate
 resources, also reflects our integrity and the University’s adherence to DORA. Training staff to
 understand the uses and abuses of metrics is part of our approach to ethical conduct.

 UOA staff engage with professional practice on research integrity via learned society activity. For
 instance, five members of staff are Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society (RGS) and
 receive updates on research conduct, ethical standards and so on;
 likewise, Moses and Taylor are Fellows of the Geological Society of London (GSL). Aplin has
 contributed to the Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society’s Awards and Professional
 Standards Committee, and Egan is financial signatory for the British Diatom Society.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 There have been three main aspects to staffing strategy in the UOA. First, we have sought to
 grow the number and advance the careers of staff with significant responsibility for research,
 and one way this has been achieved is by attracting and appointing excellent researchers. In the
 REF cycle, seven new academic appointments have been made, all of whom are
 being submitted to REF 2021. Second, we have developed a well-balanced community in terms
 of research experience, with an appropriate mixture of early-career, mid-career and senior
 researchers. This has been achieved via a careful combination of appointments (two professors,
 one senior lecturer, four lecturers) and promotion (one professor, three senior lecturers). Third,
 we have appointed new staff with research expertise in specific areas, such as process
 geomorphology, geohazard vulnerability and geospatial science, to complement and strengthen
 our research base. All but one of the academic appointments are permanent, showing a strong
 investment commitment from the University and enabling long-term planning for the UOA.

 Staff development
 Within a range of staff development measures in the UOA, we have targeted two main points
 over the REF cycle. First, we have strengthened support for individual researchers significantly,
 especially via active research mentoring. All staff are allocated a research mentor and the
 mentoring process includes both formal and informal mechanisms to provide the desired level of
 support for each individual case. Formal annual research-plan meetings are held between each
 staff member and their mentor; this is particularly useful for providing guidance on long-term
 strategy. Informal, ad hoc mentoring support is available as required, for instance to comment on
 draft conference presentations, journal papers and grant proposals. Second, in line with
 our overall young researcher demographic (at the start of the REF cycle), we have focused
 especially on the research development needs of ECRs (see below).

 In addition to the University’s Researcher Development Programme, which provides targeted
 training opportunities for both ECR (e.g. Boost your Research Profile) and
 experienced researchers (e.g. Developments in the Research Funding Landscape), the
 Department provides generous support for external, subject-specific training. In this
 regard, UOA staff have received advanced training on differential GPS and drone imaging,
 and attended specialist training programmes such as the NERC Airborne Research
 Facility (ARF) workshop. Excellent University and departmental support is also
 provided for conference attendance, giving staff valuable opportunities to present their research
 and elicit useful feedback, as well as develop research networks.

 UOA staff development success can be seen over the REF cycle by the impressive record of
 internal promotion. Three members of staff have been promoted from lecturer to senior lecturer,
 and one member of staff has been promoted successively from lecturer to reader and then
 professor. Egan has progressed from ECR in 2015 to senior lecturer in 2019, and made
 a significant contribution to departmental research life as part of the internal UOA REF steering
 group (details below). Similarly, Delgado Fernández and Rowson were ECRs submitted in

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF 2014 and have rapidly developed as researchers (with Delgado Fernández promoted to
 professor in 2018). Delgado Fernández won the University’s inaugural ECR Conference Poster
 Prize, which was won again by Egan in 2017. Rowson, after completing postgraduate
 supervisor training and enrolling his first PhD student, has moved on rapidly to assume the
 crucial role of PGR Director and is now leading strategic development of our postgraduate
 community.

 ECR support
 The UOA has developed an eight-point strategy to provide rounded support for ECR
 development:

    1. Annual meetings are held between each individual ECR and their research mentor to
    discuss rolling three-year research plans;
    2. ECR research goals are set and monitored annually by the Head of Department through
    the annual performance and development review (PDR) process;
    3. Quarterly research meetings and annual research away days provide opportunities for
    targeted ECR progress updates and development;
    4. Teaching and administration workloads are managed effectively to ensure ECRs have
    routine opportunity to progress research;
    5. ECRs are supported to undertake relevant research training through courses, workshops
    and other training activities;
    6. ECRs are encouraged to attend conferences, workshops and other research events for
    presentation, feedback and networking;
    7. ECRs are given priority access to internal research funding schemes to conduct pump-
    priming research projects;
    8. Peer support and ad hoc mentoring is available for ECR research development as and
    when required.

 Strenuous efforts are made to integrate new ECRs into the Department’s research culture.
 ECRs are allocated a research mentor on arrival and, where possible, brought in as partners on
 research grants or PhD supervision. For instance, Dickinson is leading a
 University GCRF project, supported by co-investigator Moses, to explore how coastal
 communities in Thailand can manage risks around climate change; and he is also co-supervisor
 for a PhD student, also researching coastal development, in Ghana. To accelerate discussions
 over potential research collaboration both within and beyond the Department, ECRs are
 also routinely invited to present their research in a research seminar soon after joining the
 Department.

 Postdoctoral researchers are an important component of a dynamic research community and
 they are given strong support to develop research skills, in some cases taking independent
 responsibility for research. The UOA appointed a PDRA (Christopher Marston) during the REF
 cycle, who made a significant contribution during his four-year tenure. He was initially appointed
 to support research in geospatial environmental analysis, but was then encouraged to take
 ownership of new research projects, submitting competitive bids as a co-investigator, and
 ultimately leading research on University GCRF projects related to malaria risk mapping.

 Research students
 Growing our postgraduate research community is a central plank of current research strategy
 and we have had significant growth over the REF cycle, showing our commitment to producing
 the next generation of researchers. By REF 2014, the UOA had its first three part-time
 PhD students – following the University gaining research degree
 awarding powers in 2008. Since 2014, the UOA has recruited ten full-time PhD students, as well
 as providing co-supervision of a student registered in Computer Science. Members of the UOA
 have also co-supervised 12 students registered at other institutions, including four NERC-funded
 students.



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University provides a full PGR research training programme through the first semester of
 enrolment. Further subject-specific training is provided via the UOA, usually involving supervisor
 or technician input, and each student is given an individual training programme, tailored to their
 project, often involving external training provision. For instance, students have attended NERC
 ARF’s data processing workshop at Plymouth Marine Laboratory and the CoastTools
 International Summer School at the Universidade Do Algarve, Portugal. Some doctoral training
 courses are provided by UOA staff members for external as well as internal students,
 with Rowson delivering courses on ‘Modelling gas fluxes’ for students from Edge Hill as well
 as MMU, Southampton and York. PhD students undergo three viva voce examinations –
 registration, progress and final – two of which involve external examiners, ensuring high
 standards and creating networking opportunities, and also providing excellent preparation for the
 third (final) PhD viva.

 Good funding resources are provided to MRes and PhD students by both the University and the
 Department. The University operates a PGR Bursary Fund to support
 activities including conference presentation, fieldwork and specialist training. Bursaries are
 matched by departmental funding. UOA PhD students have made good use of this fund,
 including presentations at the BES annual conference, International Union for Quaternary
 Research (INQUA) congress and the European Geosciences Union (EGU). Beyond the bursary
 fund, resources are provided according to need identified at project inception and costed into the
 annual departmental budget, and this can involve very generous input from the University. To
 illustrate the point, £7,200 was provided to purchase satellite imagery in support of a
 doctoral research project into savannah grazing lawn dynamics, and £3500 was provided for a
 student to undertake fieldwork on biological invasion in Chile’s temperate forests.

 The UOA provides strong support for career preparation, especially for onward academic (PDRA
 etc.) positions which have been the favoured option for most of our students to date. As well as
 strong support for conference presentation, involving abstract writing and co-authoring
 presentations and papers, students are encouraged to write up results for full journal paper
 submission, and there are many notable successes here with articles in Ecological
 Indicators, Science of the Total Environment and Remote Sensing, all ahead of PhD
 completion. Students are also expected to deliver oral presentations on research progress at the
 University’s annual STEM PG Forum and, in their final year of research, to give full research
 seminars in the departmental seminar series. In recent times, we have developed a particular
 emphasis on creating opportunities for PhD students to engage in impact activities, an important
 aspect of our employability strategy. Therefore, PhD students are invited to contribute to public
 awareness activities such as Liverpool Year of Environment in 2019, where they supervised an
 exhibit on coastal management, engaging widely with a curious and varied public
 audience. Many of our students come from under-represented groups and we continue to
 support them after they have graduated, including on-going access to University training
 opportunities.

 Equality and diversity
 The UOA is a diverse and international community with a staff gender split of 60:40 female/male,
 and staff members coming from Chile, New Zealand and Spain, as well as the UK. Gender
 equality is of particular significance. This commitment to women’s equality is embedded within
 active UOA research, with Delgado Fernández co-authoring a paper on ‘Steps to improve
 gender diversity in coastal geoscience and engineering’ in Palgrave Communications,
 a Nature group journal. This paper stems from Delgado Fernández’s involvement as a founder
 member of the Women in Coastal Sciences and Engineering Network. The HoD is also female;
 with two senior women in a small team, we provide role models for ECRs and students who are
 developing a career in science.

 Our PGR community has also been diverse and inclusive. The gender split of our
 PhD students has been relatively even, with a 40:60 female/male ratio. Our students’
 nationalities are again well-balanced, with a home/EU/overseas breakdown of 50:10:40. We are
 particularly pleased to welcome research students from Africa – various staff members have

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 active research interests in sub-Saharan Africa – with students from Ghana, Nigeria and
 Zimbabwe. In terms of ethnicity, 30% of our PGR community are people of colour, the remainder
 white. We also have a high proportion of mature PhD students, and the majority of our home
 students have come from non-traditional socio-economic backgrounds.

 People with personal circumstances are provided valuable support by University long-term leave
 arrangements. For instance, staff members returning from extended periods of
 absence, including maternity leave and sickness, are prioritised in RIF-funded research support
 such as teaching replacement and research leave. Part-time staff arrangements are intended to
 help individuals develop careers in line with individual aspirations, and fixed-term
 staff receive support towards gaining future employment. A notable success here is a PDRA,
 who progressed directly from Edge Hill to a senior research position at the UK Centre for
 Ecology and Hydrology.

 Career progression and promotion at the University is structured to ensure protected groups are
 given full and fair opportunity. Where staff members have had a period of extended leave, such
 as maternity leave, any corresponding reduction of research activity is not considered a
 barrier to promotion on research track. In one case, a colleague who had a period of maternity
 leave was promoted soon after her return. Research leadership roles are allocated in the UOA in
 a consciously inclusive way. For instance, when appointing REF co-leads, clearly it was
 important to have senior researchers, but a decision was taken to ensure that this involved an
 even gender balance, with one female and one male representative. Further, a REF steering
 group was formed and, again, an even gender balance was determined (2F:2M), but also an
 even nationality balance was decided upon (two international, two UK) to ensure all
 backgrounds were represented. Finally, deliberately, an ECR was included (later promoted
 to senior lecturer), to ensure all views were aired and to create opportunity for personal
 development. UOA REF preparations involved extensive internal peer review of all candidate
 outputs (>80) and all departmental staff were included in this process, giving everyone
 opportunity for professional development and direct buy-in to the REF process. We are pleased
 that our submission to REF2 largely reflects our staff profile.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding
 The UOA’s primary goal here is to increase research income to ensure onward sustainability of
 research. While there will be greater aspirations for income generation from all staff with
 significant responsibility for research, plans will be tailored for individuals according to career
 stage. Initially, ECRs are supported to prepare entry-level small grant applications; mid-career
 researchers will be encouraged to bid for medium sized grants and develop research networks
 as a means of inclusion as co-investigators in larger projects; and senior researchers will be
 expected to lead major research grant proposals. The first step to grow income is to focus on bid
 development; we have seen an increase in the volume of bids over the REF cycle with more
 staff engaging in grant writing.

 To achieve our aspirations for greater research income, we have developed an effective
 research mentoring programme, with (new) senior research staff providing tailored guidance to
 ECRs. We have organised a series of training activities related to grant applications, such
 as during dedicated Departmental Research Away Days, involving both internal and external
 presenters. We also have developed a clear grant-proposal application procedure, involving
 opportunity for internal, and where appropriate external, review; and involving presentation run-
 throughs, mock grant-panel interviews etc. We now expect to exploit the experience gained over
 the recent REF cycle, creating further opportunities for training from experienced external parties
 such as representatives from research councils and charities, and horizon-scanning funding
 opportunities to ensure our research activities are developing in alignment with national and
 international research (and funding) priorities, particularly around sustainability and climate
 change.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Another strategy in this REF cycle has been to exploit competitive internal funding schemes to
 both secure pump-priming research funding and gain valuable experience, especially for ECRs,
 in the grant preparation process. As noted in section 1, we have had considerable success with
 the University’s RIF scheme, and also with the IKEF and Open Access schemes.

 We have had some notable external research funding success over the REF
 cycle, Moses’s £500k Thai Coast project, awarded from the Newton Fund (NERC, ESRC,
 TRF); Aplin’s Royal Society-funded project on monitoring aerosol
 pollution; Delgado Fernández’s Natural England grant for investigating coastal dune
 blowouts; and Jones, A.’s IAS Fellowship (Durham University) to investigate historic human-
 environment relationships.

 We have actively sought major research grants, including Delgado Fernández’s £1.5m
 European Research Council starter grant application on coastal dune dynamics (where she
 reached interview stage); Jones, A.’s and Cortés’s standard NERC grants bids on palaeofloods
 and volcanic arcs respectively; Marston and Aplin’s Wellcome Trust and Royal Society
 fellowship applications on malaria hazard mapping; and Moses’s recent Newton Trust impact
 scheme application on citizen science for coastal governance in Thailand. In addition, to
 grow initial capacity in research income generation, and given the youthful and compact
 character of our UOA, we have deliberately targeted small and medium-sized grants. This
 has met with enthusiastic engagement from our staff, with all members actively involved in grant
 application, including Egan’s Royal Society research grant application on Holocene climate
 variability; Delgado Fernández’s and Aplin’s Leverhulme Trust fellowship bids on coastal
 geomorphology and drone-based forest monitoring respectively; Dickinson’s British Academy
 small-grant application on the impacts of over-research in the disaster landscape and UKRI
 COVID-19 open call application on community impacts and mobilization in previously disaster-
 affected areas; and Cortés’s NERC Ion Micro-Probe Analysis Facility bid for his work
 on analysing volatile content in volcanic melt inclusion crystals.

 A range of small-medium awards have been secured, such as Rowson’s bid to the North West
 Geographic Society for field equipment in a long-term peat bog conservation initiative, and
 Jones, C.’s grant from Manchester Geographical Society to conduct woodland fire history
 analysis. Travel funding awards include Egan’s ECR bid to attend INQUA
 2019, Jones, A.’s award to attend PAGES Floods Working Group workshop, and Aplin’s fully-
 funded invitation from the European Space Agency to participate in an expert workshop on
 defining essential biodiversity variables in Zurich in 2018. As well as staff, PhD students are
 supported to seek external funding and the UOA has had notable successes here,
 including fieldwork and outreach awards from the Royal Geographical Society (RGS) and British
 Geomorphological Society respectively.

 There are direct links from research funding to high quality research outputs, including Aplin’s
 Malaysia peat swamp forest research activity, funded from his RGS Ralph
 Brown Expedition Award, as well as associated NERC ARF data and DTP studentship awards,
 which has yielded five journal papers in Nature Communications, Remote
 Sensing, Geoderma and Frontiers in Forests and Global Change. Delgado Fernández’s Natural
 England project led to outputs in Journal of Geophysical Research, Physical
 Geography and Science of the Total Environment. Similarly, there are direct links from funded
 research to impact, such as Aplin’s contribution to Roundtable on Sustainable Palm
 Oil manuals on environmental management practices stemming from the tropical peatland work.

 Organisational infrastructure
 In the REF cycle, the UOA has reorganised its research through a
 new overarching research theme, Global Environmental Change. The University has invested
 heavily in the development of this theme through strategic appointments, including
 two professors, one senior lecturer and one lecturer. Other organisational advancements include
 development of, and contribution to, collaborative research
 groups. Delgado Fernández founded the Coastal Studies Lab (CSL), a collective of local and

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international researchers in coastal erosion dynamics and management, focusing on Sefton
 Coast as a natural laboratory. Similarly, following appointment to the University in
 2015, Aplin founded the Northwest Earth Observation Network (NEON), a regional academic
 group of remote sensing researchers which acts together to pursue and promote remote sensing
 research and exploitation. NEON won a conference support grant to hold a series of events
 related to Earth Observation for Habitat Monitoring at the 2016 British Ecological Society’s
 Annual Conference in Liverpool. At University level, the UOA is a key contributor to new
 research collectives, including the Data Science STEM Research Centre and ISR’s SustainNET,
 outlined in section 1.

 Operational infrastructure
 In the previous REF cycle, the Department moved into a new building, providing excellent new
 space for research. At that time, research infrastructure was limited, both in terms
 of dedicated space and equipment. Thus, in the current cycle, we have prioritized new
 investment in laboratory facilities and equipment. The UOA has benefitted from
 significant investment by the University to develop a modern and advanced research facility,
 enabling field and laboratory analysis across the GEC theme. A suite of science laboratories has
 been constructed at an investment of £1.2m, including
 a Physical Geography Research Laboratory with
 connected Analytical Laboratory; an Environmental Analysis Laboratory along with two storage
 rooms including large freezer sample storage; and a Geo-engineering Laboratory and
 associated Clean Laboratory. The building also houses two high specification computer labs,
 supplied with industry standard statistical, GIS and image processing software packages.

 The laboratories are overseen by two highly skilled, full-time technicians, both of whom are
 members of the Institute of Science and Technology. Support is provided for all aspects of
 laboratory research analysis as well as field data collection. Further excellent research support is
 provided by our newly appointed Departmental Administrative Manager – elected FRGS since
 appointment – who works with the HoD to develop the strategic direction of the Department and
 has rolled out a new communications strategy for reporting research activity.

 Equipment investment has also been substantial in the REF cycle. As well as fitting out the
 laboratories with all standard research equipment and consumables, specialist research
 equipment has been purchased to meet staff research needs. In total, £427k has been spent on
 research equipment and data, including a £64k ion chromatograph, £61k geo-engineering
 equipment (rock crusher, grinder, pelletizer), £44k terrestrial laser scanner, £40k XRF
 analyser and £56k on geological thin sections.

 Collaborative infrastructure
 The UOA is benefitting significantly from the new in-house research facilities, but we have
 worked strategically to develop research networks and gain access to external facilities to
 increase overall research capability. We have seen success in competitive bids to major UK
 research facilities, including Aplin’s NERC ARF award on dune field evolution, as well as a
 companion award from NERC Field Spectroscopy Facility for specialist sun photometry
 equipment to aid fieldwork and image calibration. Moses won a NERC High Performance
 Computing resource allocation, related to her Newton-funded Thai Coast project; and Delgado
 Fernández was co-investigator on a NERC Geophysical Facility award to investigate storm
 impacts on coastal dunes using ground penetrating radar.

 Overseas, various UOA staff are beneficiaries of access to research infrastructure to pursue
 specific research activities. Aplin has a registered project with South Africa National Parks
 which provides a park fee waiver and access to laboratories, equipment, game guards and
 accommodation at Kruger National Park. Moses benefits from research support at Mahidol
 University via the Thai Coast project. In Chile, Cortés receives support from the National Forest
 Corporation to work in Villarrica volcanoes; and also in Chile, Aplin’s collaboration with
 Universidad de la Frontera (UFRO) provides free office and laboratory space for his research


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 team, plus field transport, equipment including use of UFRO’s drone system and
 accommodation.

 Department staff are widely involved in collaborative research with other HEIs and research
 partners around the UK, and this includes valuable access to specific research
 infrastructure. Taylor has access to facilities in the University of Manchester’s Rock Deformation
 Laboratory via her collaboration with colleagues in the Basin Analysis Group. Rowson benefits
 from greenhouse space in Manchester Metropolitan University’s (MMU) laboratories, where his
 PhD students store samples and run greenhouse experiments. In return, we contribute usefully
 to MMU research activity by providing our Department’s ultraportable infrared gas
 analyser. Delgado Fernández has well established research collaborations with institutions in
 Northern Ireland. For instance, the Coastal and Marine Research group at the University of
 Ulster has a world-leading collection of 3D ultrasonic anemometers, sand traps, and data
 loggers, worth >£100K, which she has used in field experiments along the Sefton Coast, as part
 of her Natural England project.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations
 Further developing external research networks and collaborations has been a key strategy in the
 current REF period as a means to supplement in-house research resources, thus
 ensuring onward sustainability of research. ECRs are encouraged to engage with leading
 international researchers, and to help facilitate this they benefit from internal support to attend
 conferences, contribute to learned society committees etc. Egan was supported by University
 RIF funding to progress her tephrochronology research agenda in the USA, and fieldwork plus
 conference networking has led to strategic research collaborations with Louisiana State
 University and the University of Cambridge, both on complementary interdisciplinary research
 projects and in support of PhD students. Senior researchers have well-established research
 collaborations and are encouraged especially to take a lead on initiating new, large-scale
 collaborations, such as Moses’s Thai Coast project, IDF’s CSL and PA’s NEON.

 UOA staff are engaged widely in national and international collaborations with HEIs and other
 research organisations, and with research beneficiaries. Cortés has well established research
 collaborations on petrology and geological mapping with the Chilean Geological Survey and the
 Geological Survey of Malawi, leading to world-leading research outputs in, for example, Nature
 Communications and Volcanica. Dickinson also has strong collaborations in Chile, working with
 disaster risk reduction experts to explore intersectional vulnerabilities amongst residents living in
 informal housing at Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, as well as collaborators in Ecuador,
 USA and UK. Aplin’s work on tropical peatland involves extensive collaborations with 50+
 international partners and has led to agenda setting reviews on research priorities for peatland
 field research and oil palm sustainability. Nationally, Rowson collaborates extensively with other
 UK HEIs on his peatland conservation research, including via a series of major funded projects
 (e.g. from NERC and Leverhulme) with Durham, Manchester, York and Manchester Metropolitan
 Universities.

 The UOA engages actively in academic exchange with collaborator organisations. A series of
 international researchers have spent time with us on collaborative projects, including both
 experienced practitioners such as Dr Adison Altamirano from UFRO, Chile, a leading forest
 ecology expert in South America, and Professor Jeff Ollerhead from Mount Allison University,
 Canada, an expert on marsh dynamics and coastal restoration; and ECRs such as Dr Pei Liu
 from Henan Polytechnic University, China, an expert in machine-learning classification
 methodologies who spent a year-long sabbatical at the University, and coastal
 scientists Carolina Peña Alonso and Leví García Romero from the Universidad de Las Palmas
 de Gran Canaria, Spain.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research impact
 As noted in section 1, our underlying research impact strategy in this REF period has been to
 engage with stakeholders and beneficiaries earlier in the research process, and in particular to
 seek opportunities for genuine research co-production with these partners. The UOA’s two ICSs
 on ‘Increasing palm oil sustainability to conserve Malaysia’s tropical peatland’ and ‘Coastal dune
 evolution and management’ demonstrate notable successes here.

 Generally, staff engage widely with research stakeholders and beneficiaries at all stages of the
 research process. Moses’s Thai Coast project includes stakeholder workshops to assess views
 on existing risks from, and governance of, hydrometeorological hazards. Participants have
 included eight government bodies including Provincial Offices of Disaster Prevention and
 Mitigation, Fisheries, and Public Health. To further develop knowledge exchange opportunities
 from the UOA’s coastal research
 activities, Delgado Fernández, Jones, A. and Dickinson secured competitive internal research
 funding for international research and networking activities, including a major multi-part event at
 Edge Hill involving research workshop, field trip and business meetings, plus separate
 stakeholder workshops. These events involved participants from Canada, Ireland, Spain,
 Thailand and the UK, and included a mixture of researchers and managers.

 Moses has high-level European responsibilities on helping develop maritime policy via the
 European Commission Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries’ Marine
 Observation and Data Expert Group (MODEG), as the principal advisor on coastal
 geomorphology. MODEG provides input and feedback to the Commission's strategic objective
 for an integrated maritime policy through EMODnet.

 The UOA considers public communication a key responsibility of the research community
 and contributes widely to broad public discourses around climate change and other
 contemporary environmental topics. The Department has developed a structured programme of
 public outreach including rolling social media updates, webpage news feed, podcasts, in-house
 public lectures, specialist knowledge exchange workshops, external public interest group
 presentations, major public science exhibitions and broadcast media interviews. This is a step-
 change from the occasional, ad hoc public engagement activities in the previous REF cycle.

 As well as national and international engagement, the UOA is especially committed to engaging
 with interested parties – commercial organisations, schools, the public – at the local level, and
 has an established public lecture series attracting audiences from around the region. Staff
 members speak widely on their research at public interest group meetings, such as Delgado
 Fernández’s regular talks around coastal change to Southport Scientific
 Society; Jones, C.’s presentation on woodland palaeoecology to Preston Society Birdwatching
 and Natural History; and Jones. A’s public lecture at Van Mildert College in Durham on extreme
 flooding. Aplin has been invited to make various prominent research talks to public and
 professional audiences, including his appearance on RGS’s Monday Night Lecture series to
 discuss ‘Where’s the swamp gone for peat’s sake?’; plus his session for UNICEF HQ’s Webinar
 Series on Data Collection (developed in response to worldwide COVID lockdown constraints on
 routine field data collection activities), delivering a talk on remote sensing data sources to over
 125 UNICEF staff in 40 countries. Further afield, Moses delivered an invited talk to the Northern
 Ireland GA on coastal resilience and vulnerability in Europe and SE Asia; and Cortés delivered
 a geochemistry workshop for ECRs in the Chilean Geological Survey. The UOA has contributed
 exhibits to significant public science events, such as NERC’s ‘Into the blue’ in Manchester in
 2016, Lancashire Science Festival in 2018 and Liverpool Year of Environment in 2019.

 Contributions to research base
 The UOA views wider (beyond individual research activities) contributions to the research base
 as a key element of advancing fundamental disciplinary knowledge, so all staff with significant
 responsibility for research are encouraged to engage in broad academic service activities. In
 particular, UOA staff are active in learned-society activities, grant reviewing, editorial roles
 and conference organisation.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There is wide, often leadership, engagement from UOA staff with learned societies and other
 national and international research committees, for instance the American Geophysical Union,
 BES, British Society for Geomorphology, EGU, International Association for Geomorphology,
 International Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the Earth’s Interior (IAVCEI), and
 Quaternary Research Association. Five staff members are Fellows of the RGS and two of the
 GSL; Aplin is an active Member, former Chair, of the Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry
 Society (RSPSoc); Moses is a Member, former Honorary Treasurer, of the British Society for
 Geomorphology; and Egan is a Member of the International Society for Diatom Research, and
 current financial signatory for the British Diatom Meeting.

 Departmental staff members contribute widely to national and international grants
 committees. Moses is a member of NERC’s Peer Review College; while Aplin was a panel
 member on NERC’s Centre for Doctoral Training on Smart and Autonomous Sensors, as well as
 routinely undertaking Standard Grant reviews. Aplin has also reviewed research proposals for
 the Israeli Ministry of Science and Technology, and is a member of review panels for the RGS
 and BES. Both Cortés and Jones, A. review grant applications for the National Committee for
 Scientific and Technological Research (equivalent to NERC) in Chile, and Cortés also acts as
 reviewer for the National Science Foundation in the USA and New Zealand’s Energy
 Commission. Delgado Fernández reviews grants for various organizations including the
 Australian Research Council, the Oregon Sea Grant scheme, Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University
 and NWO Applied and Engineering Sciences (the Dutch Research Council). The UOA’s
 professoriate – Aplin, Delgado Fernández and Moses – are also experienced PhD external
 examiners, between them undertaking 16 doctoral exams in the current REF period, both here in
 the UK and in Australia, Belgium, Italy, Netherlands and Spain.

 All UOA staff contribute widely through journal paper reviewing, and senior staff also undertake
 various prestigious editorial roles. Moses holds the senior role of Assistant Scientific Editor in
 engineering geology for the Quarterly Journal of Engineering Geology and
 Hydrogeology. Aplin is on the Editorial Boards of ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and
 Remote Sensing, the second top remote sensing journal by impact factor, and Frontiers in
 Remote Sensing, Land, Sensors and Remote Sensing Applications: Society and
 Environment. Delgado Fernández is guest editor for Earth Surface Processes and Landforms.

 In terms of conference organisation, Aplin has been appointed to various international
 conference series’ Scientific Programme Committees, including biennial Geographic Object
 Based Image Analysis (ITC Netherlands 2016, Montpellier 2018), Spatial Accuracy (Montpellier
 2016, Beijing 2018), and Earth Observation and Remote Sensing Applications (Guangzhou
 2016, Xi’an 2018), and RSPSoc Annual Conferences (Nottingham 2016, ICL 2017) and the
 NERC-hosted National Earth Observation Conference (Birmingham
 2018). Delgado Fernández has also been instrumental in coastal science conference
 organisation, leading thematic sessions on Coastal Morphodynamics at EGU in 2016 and
 2017. Aplin won funding to organise a thematic session on habitat mapping at the 2016 British
 Ecology Society meeting in Liverpool, also attaching to this a related Annual Lecture and
 Conversazione for RSPSoc.

 Various UOA staff have delivered notable conference presentations, by
 invitation. Cortés delivered invited presentations at the 2017 IAVCEI General Assembly in
 Portland, Oregon and the 2019 Icelandic Volcanism Workshop at Lancaster University;
 and Moses was invited to develop and co-chair a session on Rock Coasts in the Anthropocene
 at the International Rock Coast Conference. Delgado Fernández was invited to speak at
 the International Conference in Aeolian Research in 2018 in Bordeaux, and the Geological
 Society of America in 2019 in Phoenix; and Aplin was invited to deliver oral presentations at
 thematic conference sessions, including EGU 2016 in Vienna and Living Planet Symposium
 2019 in Milan. Egan was invited to present in a session during the INQUA 2019 congress and
 also won the best poster prize from among 500+ contenders at INQUA 2015; and Rowson was
 invited to present at MacCap and NERC’s Peat and Microbes conferences at the University of
 Manchester.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finally, research is at the heart of the Department’s learning and teaching ethos, with our
 undergraduate students treated as junior researchers and involved with staff research activities
 and findings. This embedding of research into the learning curriculum keeps research at the
 forefront of departmental life, reinforcing UOA vitality and sustainability. Undergraduates are
 introduced to staff research from the outset of their degrees, for instance via the year 1
 Environmental Issues module, where staff members deliver research-lite seminars followed by
 interactive learning. Between degree years, we recruit UG students as paid summer research
 assistants, funded through the University’s excellent Student Opportunity Fund, and also
 via Nuffield Research Placements where we have recruited six students over the last three
 years. In year 3, students attend the departmental research seminar series, selecting one for
 assessed review, and of course also complete a research dissertation, often linked to staff
 research agendas. In some cases, student achievements have fed back into the Department’s
 research agenda; for instance, an outstanding undergraduate dissertation on palm oil
 sustainability was subsequently published in the International Journal of Remote Sensing and
 identified further research beneficiaries in Malaysia.




                                                                                           Page 14
