Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of Plymouth

Unit of Assessment: UoA 20 Social Work and Social Policy

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a. Context and Structure

As one of five schools in the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business, the School of Law,
Criminology and Government (SoLCG) operates within a vibrant interdisciplinary environment.
The Unit of Assessment is a thriving group of 14.8 FTE researchers who, over the past five
years, have established a strong international profile for outstanding research, and won and
collaborated on grants totalling in excess of £10 million. Our work has important societal and
economic impacts, providing solutions to national and international challenges such as
safeguarding children and young people online, or increasing the fairness of resource allocation
in children’s services and health care funding. The new Plymouth Institute of Health and Care
Research (PIHR), formed in 2020 and directed by Asthana, enables collaborative
interdisciplinary research in the health care field across the University. See
https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes/health Since 2014 the unit’s research profile has
been strengthened by the addition of high calibre staff in cognate areas assisted by our move to
form SoLCG.

The unit is drawn from the following disciplines in SoLCG: Social Policy, Sociology, Politics and
International Relations. Additionally, the return includes a small number of colleagues based in
the Medical School and Humanities. For the majority of the REF period this unit was in the
Faculty of Business and therefore formed part of the Institute for Social, Policy and Enterprise
research (iSPER) which housed the Politics and International Studies Centre (PISC), while the
Institute of Health and Community (IHC) continued to house the Methodological Innovations and
Health Policy clusters. While the traditional focus of Social Policy was on poverty, ill health, poor
housing, insufficient education and unemployment, contemporary society now faces the inter-
connected risks of social, economic and environmental crisis that demands a more global,
interdisciplinary approach. With the move to FoAHB in 2019 we merged our research clusters
within the school to form four interdisciplinary groupings that feed into ESRC strategic priorities:

Health, Vulnerability and Inequality (Anderson; Asthana; Callaghan; Clark; Elston; Gibson;
Gradinger; Parsons; Quinn; M. Sheaff; R. Sheaff)
Environment, Culture and Society (Anderson; Campbell; Holden; Husk; Phippen)
Global Instability and Justice (Cladi, Cordell; Holden; Holliday; Kulpa)
Methodological Innovations (Anderson; Husk; Letherby; Parsons; Quinn; Scott; M. Sheaff)

These changes enable our research to align more closely with the University’s overall strategy
of strengthening interdisciplinary collaboration. The shift in direction over the REF period reflects
the broader context of changing disciplinary concerns and funding priorities. With an institutional
shift away from a purely localised focus on social enterprise, we have thus re-oriented our
strategy around the University’s 2030 ambitions to be at the forefront in responding to the most
pressing global societal challenges through international and interdisciplinary collaborations.

Our distinctive research methods expertise has led us to play a crucial role in cross-faculty
collaboration. This UoA is uniquely advantaged in terms of the range and depth of quantitative
approaches using sophisticated techniques to analyse large national data sets and its expertise
in synthetic estimation and microsimulation. The former uses census and other large-scale
datasets to estimate the detailed composition of local populations, whilst the latter applies
parameter estimates from models of survey data to those populations to predict, for instance,
the local prevalence of specific illnesses, attitudes and behaviours. These estimates are used to
predict variations in the health needs and socio-cultural characteristics of local populations,

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including for the purposes of resource allocation. A broad range of qualitative research methods
is also used to examine behaviour at the micro level including ethnography, photo-elicitation and
discourse analysis. The unit is home to the Plymouth founded journal Methodological
Innovations published by Sage and edited by Letherby and Scott.

b. Research Strategy

The key elements of our strategy since 2014 have been:

1) Focusing on areas of research strength and growing fields with high potential that closely
align;
2) Supporting and enabling interdisciplinary scholarship and international collaboration with
outstanding partners;
3) Embedding and incentivising impact and knowledge exchange within our research culture;
4) Fostering a dynamic, supportive and inclusive community of researchers that encourages
cross faculty collaboration and external engagement with key partners in government,
healthcare, non-profit, business and academia;
5) Supporting staff at all career stages to enable them to produce internationally excellent world-
leading research and impact, and recruiting high calibre, ethnically diverse, researchers with
significant potential to enhance areas of excellence;
6) Facilitating high quality bid writing via an interlinked structure of support at School, Faculty
and University level;
7) Increasing the number of PhD students and ensuring that PGR programmes align with the
overall research strategy;
8) Setting and influencing academic research agendas through chief editorial roles for major
international journals and membership of international advisory boards for influential book
series;
9) Improving the visibility of our research and external profile.

The following initiatives were implemented at School and Faculty level in order to deliver this
strategy aligned with the University’s central research objectives:

1) The establishment of a cross-disciplinary Arts Institute (AI) that provides a highly conducive
environment for conducting research. Home to over 200 academics, its state-of-the-art facilities
and infrastructure enhances opportunities for research income generation, knowledge transfer
and public engagement;
2) The interdisciplinary IHC enabled new synergies to develop through cross discipline clusters
and facilitated a shared vision among researchers from different disciplines in the health field.
The pooling of resources from across the University has enabled us to play a key role in large
multidisciplinary teams researching health inequalities with access to new revenue streams;
3) The creation of a new school-wide Research Committee that enables effective research
planning and financial oversight at the local level. The committee monitors KPIs including PGR
numbers and research income and manages impact activities and the strategic deployment of
QR income;
4) The new requirement in annual individual research plans for staff to identify potential
collaborative projects involving external national and international partners. These plans are
submitted to the Associate Head of School for Research and regular Performance Development
Review (PDR) meetings are used to identify ways in which staff can be supported to increase
collaborative research activity and actively participate in national and international networks.
New interdisciplinary collaborations have been developed: e.g. Cladi’s work with Dr Stephen
Green on surveillance and potential new emerging zoonoses; Holden’s work on the Global Aid
for Trade initiative with William Hynes adjunct professor at John Hopkins and senior economist
at OECD; Holliday’s work on popular uprisings in the Middle East with Dr Philip Leech
(Ottawa); Kulpa’s work on geographies of sexualities with Joseli Maria Silva (Professor of
Human Geography, State University of Ponta Grossa);


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
5) The recruitment of promising, and ethnically diverse, international ECRs with strong potential
to bolster emerging areas of strength relating to global instability and justice. Campbell joined
us from Max Planck Institute for Social Anthropology, Cladi joined us from Birmingham and
Kulpa from Birkbeck;
6) The use of internal and University strategic development grants to pump prime research in
priority areas and support early stage projects seeking external funding. For example,
researchers in the Global Instability and Justice cluster (e.g. Holden) have benefited from seed-
corn GCRF funding. Others in the Environment, Culture and Society group (e.g. Anderson)
have been awarded Sustainable Earth Institute (SEI) funding that facilitated an internally funded
interdisciplinary research project leading to a journal article on public attitudes to microbeads in
personal care products that was referred to in a Parliamentary POSTnote (528 June 2016) and
European Commission (Initial Statement by the Group of Chief Scientific Advisors, 2017);
7) The retention of senior staff upon retirement as Emeritus/Honorary Professors (Cordell,
Letherby, Scott) to enhance the research culture and assist with mentoring and research
leadership;
8) The development of a Research Leadership programme, embedding sustainability and
developing the next generation research leaders;
9) The enhancement of mentoring at school level and through the University women
researchers’ network. Promising early career researchers (ECRs) are supported through
University payment of PhD fees and have been released from teaching to be seconded on
funded research. For example, Parsons has greatly benefitted from this and was awarded a
highly competitive Sociology of Health and Illness Foundation Post-Doctoral Fellowship Award;
10) Research bidding training for all staff, including ECRs, in close liaison with Research and
Innovation and the Faculty research support team through a regular series of grant writing
workshops. Also centrally coordinated targeted updates on research funding opportunities and
the provision of exemplars of successful bids. This is already bearing fruits and has
strengthened our capacity to win large grants such as R. Sheaff’s £800k HSDR funded project.
11) Strategic allocation of seed corn funding to our themed research groups in order to fund
research assistance to develop targeted bids;
12) New marketing initiatives at School, Faculty and University level designed to raise the
external profile of our research. For example, the SEI series on featured researchers
https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes/sustainable-earth/alison-anderson
Also bespoke websites created by staff such as Parsons’ Finishing Time website
http://www.finishingtime.online

Because of these initiatives as a unit of 14.8 FTE, over the period, we have collectively
published 200 refereed journal articles, 6 special issues, 15 monographs, 12 edited books and
52 chapters. Staff gave more than 45 papers at international conferences and research
seminars (including 17 keynotes) and organised 3 international conferences. Between us, we
have edited 4 international refereed journals (as chief editor Anderson or co-editor Cordell,
Letherby, Scott). At the national level, we have delivered over 70 conference papers.

We are currently developing a five-year strategy for 2021-2026. The formation of a new School
of Society and Culture in FoAHB from August 2021 (incorporating Sociology, Criminology and
Anthropology as well as Law, Politics/International Relations, History, Humanities and
Performing Arts) will strengthen the profile and visibility of social sciences within the University.
It will provide the opportunity for exciting new collaborations to develop around areas of
collective strength including heritage and culture, digital humanities and coastal communities.
Staff within the unit each have a 5-year research plan that identifies support and training needs.
Short and medium-term targets for funding applications, planned collaborations and publications
are identified and form the basis for individual staff discussions in regular PDR meetings, as well
as feeding into wider School and Faculty level strategic planning.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
c. Impact Strategy
Impact is integral to the research culture of this unit. The key features of our impact strategy
over this REF cycle have been: 1) to embed impact culture across the unit; 2) to support experi-
enced researchers with an impact track record to develop outstanding impact during and post
REF and; 3) to create opportunities for pathways to impact to all researchers.
We have engaged in the following actions and initiatives to deliver the strategy:
1) Pathways to impact is a key aspect of research mentoring at all levels from ECRs to senior
staff;
2) Individual research plans now include a section on pathways to impact;
3) Internal funding forms require an impact statement modelled on those used by external fun-
ders;
4) Staff have attended impact training events organised at School, Faculty and University level;
5) Staff have taken part in national impact awareness events and reported back to share in-
sights e.g. Anderson attended a Women Researchers in Parliament event and is an invited
judge at the annual Emerald Interdisciplinary Research Impact Awards;
6) The team work closely with marketing and the University public relations unit to disseminate
research;
7) Since moving to FoAHB, the unit has benefitted from The Bridge - a new Faculty research
initiative for knowledge exchange that provides an important vehicle for open innovation and
collaborative research. It assists with knowledge transfer and provides access to funding oppor-
tunities, as well as fostering new research connections and collaborations and assisting re-
searchers with increasing the visibility and impact of their work;
8) The unit identified staff members whose research indicated significant impact early on in the
REF cycle and supported them with seed-corn funding to convert them into strong case studies.
At University level, administrative support has been provided to assist with the collection and
documentation of evidence entered onto VV tracker software;
9) Impact case study authors have benefitted from group and individual one-to-one sessions run
by external consultants to assist in the later stages of impact case study development.
Our impact case studies on Redesigning Public Services Funding Allocation Formulae to
Maximise Social Benefit (Case Study 1) and Transforming Approaches to Online Safety
(Case Study 2) demonstrate the effectiveness of our impact strategy, showing how high quality
research can bring about significant change in national policy and/or legislation. Asthana and
Gibson’s research has had a significant impact on the way in which resources for English pub-
lic services are distributed. Highlights in this REF period include their influence on changes in
the way that £78 billion of NHS funding is allocated to Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs)
throughout England. Additionally Gibson led the redesign of the new Children’s Services fund-
ing formula. Phippen’ s research was instrumental in the establishment of legislation around,
and support for, ‘revenge porn’, to provide protection for thousands of young people who have
been victims of this sexual crime, and in improving online safeguarding in HE Institutions.
The principal non-academic user-groups, beneficiaries and audiences for the unit’s research are
wide-ranging and include central government departments, independent bodies (e.g. NHS Eng-
land), units of resource allocation (e.g. clinical commissioning groups, local authorities, police)
and the public itself (Case Study 1) and schools, government departments and young people
(Case Study 2). Phippen has also worked with NGOs (including UK Safer Internet Centre,
Open Rights Group, Marie Collins Foundation, and Netsafe New Zealand) to provide them with
research-based evidence for lobbying Government.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Pathways to impact are opened up to staff at all stages of their career and basic impact training
is available to all. Key research beneficiaries are invited to attend events that show case the im-
portance and applied nature of our research and are carefully tailored towards particular audi-
ences. For example, in 2017 the interdisciplinary iSPER event ‘Brexit: Meeting the challenge in
the South West’, brought researchers, local authorities and the business community together in
a vibrant debate about social policy issues relating to health care, the environment and migrant
populations. This fed into the Brexit Renegotiating Relationships and Resilience Project (2019)
which conducted interviews, workshops and training sessions with civil society organisations
and local government institutions (as well as businesses) working on economic development,
citizens’ rights, migrants’ rights, community relations and workers’ rights https://www.plym-
outh.ac.uk/uploads/production/document/path/15/15520/Rebuilding_Relationships_Final_Re-
port_.pdf
A series of policy papers were published (with input from PISC), including papers on interna-
tional development and building stability overseas by Holden and a PhD student. This was part
of a wider initiative to make academic research more accessible to a broader range of stake-
holders and expand the provision of media training. The policy papers and podcasts were
shared with policymakers as one pathway to impact.


d. Future Research and Impact Strategy

The strategic five-year vision for 2021-2026 is to continue to be at the forefront of research in
our field, setting and influencing academic and policy agendas. One such strategic area is
health policy. PIHR brings together academics from a wide range of disciplines in the Faculty of
Health together with researchers in the Faculties of Science and Technology and Arts,
Humanities and Business and our partners in the public, private and third sectors, nationally and
internationally. It seeks to promote an interdisciplinary, inclusive enterprise with real commitment
to working across boundaries in order to meet the health needs of the South West and other
rural, coastal, and deprived communities worldwide. We currently have teams in four
interconnecting research themes (Brain and Mind, Promoting Health across the Life-Course,
eHealth and Frontiers in Discovery Research) with 29 cross cutting research groups. PIHR will
add value by enabling and accelerating research, supporting new and productive collaborations,
and multiplying the quality and the impact of our work and impact. This will be achieved by
means of a responsive and dynamic system that avoids the limitations of structures that
encourage divisive organisational silos.

Through targeted funding of our research clusters, we will deliver rigorous applied and
theoretically informed world-class research and build greater critical mass in Environment,
Culture and Society and Global Instability and Justice. The unit’s goals are to build further a
diverse and inclusive research environment, increase research income, further improve the
quality of our outputs and impact, and to continue to strengthen our international profile and
visibility. This will be achieved by:

1) Targeting research support to areas of identified strength, especially those interdisciplinary
areas that align with University and research council strategic priorities including innovations in
health and social care, health inequalities and COVID-19, and communicating climate change.
2)) Improving systems of mentoring and training across the unit (including grant writing, impact
activity and media training), particularly focusing on supporting women, those from ethnic
minority groups, and those with disabilities;
3) Strengthening the core disciplines in the unit by making excellent strategic appointments at
all levels, expanding PGR, and increasing the representation of women researchers. With the
integration of SoLCG into FoAHB the school is embedded within a stronger structure;
4) Further increasing our research visibility through a redesigned communications strategy
targeted towards a variety of different audiences including researchers and the policy
community.


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

Our staffing strategy has aimed to create a balanced and internationally diverse unit, with the
appointment of 5 promising new ECRs to aid succession planning. Two of these appointees have
since moved on to develop their careers in other institutions. ECRs receive intensive research
mentoring and receive light administrative and teaching loads in their first two years to ensure
that they have sufficient time to devote to developing grant applications, publishing from their
research, and participating in research clusters. Opportunities for research leadership are pro-
vided at all levels of an individual’s career ensuring that the research environment is both inclusive
and sustainable. ECRs are included on PhD and ResM supervisory teams so that they gain ex-
perience of the supervisory process. They are also represented on the School Research Com-
mittee and the ECR Forum in FoAHB provides peer support and training for researchers in the
early stages of their career.

Most staff (76%) are on permanent contracts. We have 3 contract researchers and 1 member of
staff on the balanced pathway (teaching and research) who is also on a full-time contract. Around
a third (35%) of staff are on part-time contracts all but two of whom are located within the Medical
School. This includes two researchers in residence and one senior research fellow who are on
fractional contracts supporting large programmes of research in health policy. The University has
fully implemented the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Re-
searcher. Fixed term staff are members of the University’s Researcher Forum and receive exten-
sive guidance on career planning, job applications and interview preparation. They receive men-
toring from project PIs and are encouraged to enter PDP and CPD activities in a developmental
log. Plymouth was among the first 35 European HEIs to gain the EU HR Excellence in Research
Award, which was renewed in 2017.

During this REF cycle, we have mainly sought to recruit promising ECRs. These new appoint-
ments (including Campbell, Cladi and Kulpa) have been fully integrated into our departments
and research groups. They have taken on leadership roles in organising our outward-facing sem-
inar programmes, enhancing our existing strengths in the Global Instability and Justice cluster
and significantly contributing to our REF submission.

Retired/freelance professors (Cordell, Letherby, Scott) continue to play a key leadership role
within the unit through their emeritus/honorary roles. This has facilitated mentoring of early and
mid-career researchers and emeritus professors have been influential in sustaining a vibrant re-
search culture through active involvement in research clusters.

A comprehensive school workload system allocates all academic duties (teaching, research, ac-
ademic management and leadership) and all research active staff have dedicated ring-fenced
time for research and scholarship (440 hours for research active staff - 26.6% of total time). Work-
load models and research support mechanisms also ensure that part-time staff have equal op-
portunities for research. All research active staff submit individual research plans (containing in-
formation on their planned grants, publications and impact activities) which are discussed at their
PDR meeting. PDRs help to identify future staff support needs and highlight areas likely to benefit
from seed corn investment.

There are clear processes in place for career progression and an annual promotion cycle that is
supported by individual PDR meetings. During this cycle, two members of staff gained PhDs
(Clark and Parsons) and three staff were promoted from Lecturer to Associate Professor
(Holden, Holliday, Parsons). Capacity has thus been provided for mid-career staff to take on
research leadership and advancement through promotion.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
b. Research Students

Research students in this unit are part of an intellectually stimulating interdisciplinary PGR
community. There have been 25 PhD completions over this REF cycle. The number of PhD
students is not comparable with the last submission, as the unit is smaller, with staff in
Criminology entered into a different unit of assessment. Six of our PhD completions were
awarded highly competitive ESRC studentships, testifying to our ability to attract high quality
applicants. PhD students are often able to benefit from Associate Lecturer contracts and from
assisting with editorial/ publications work. The Head of School closely monitors workload
allocation to ensure that such students are able to devote adequate amounts of time to their
research. Most PhD students are past Masters students and self-financing or funded by a
University scholarship. To enable sustainability we are bolstering Masters provision through a
newly launched ResM in Sociology, MSc Social Research, and involvement in a new MA in
Environmental Humanities.

Research students are fully integrated into research clusters and are represented on the
relevant School Committee. There are currently 16 PGR in the School and within the wider
Faculty there are over 180 MPhil/PhD candidates within the Doctoral Training Centre (DTC).
PGR students are active members of our research groups at School and Faculty level. PGR
have access to specialist software for the analysis of quantitative and qualitative data. All full-
time PhD students at Plymouth receive specialist advanced methods training if they have not
already received this. Their training is enriched by participation in a rich array of seminars,
conferences and specialist workshops including fortnightly PGR cafés with presentations and
other activities. The Researcher Development Programme runs in the region of 160 sessions
per year on research skills and career development that are regularly taken up by our PGRs.
Researchers in this unit regularly contribute sessions to the annual Meet the Editors workshops.

The Doctoral College provides both early-stage and refresher support for researchers at all
stages of their career on publishing, grant capture and research planning, PhD research
supervision and research ethics. Members of the team regularly attend such sessions. A vibrant
staff research seminar programme provides the opportunity for researchers and PGR to present
work in progress for discussion, and associated workshops offer training in presentation,
publishing and collaborative working for doctoral students and ECRs. Over the census period,
several staff have given keynotes at the annual Plymouth Doctoral Colloquium where doctoral
students present their work in progress. All supervisory team members are encouraged to
attend and regularly contribute through reviewing abstracts and chairing sessions. PGR also
assist with organising the event. Staff also attend PhD upgrade sessions within the school.

The MA in International Relations: Global Security and Development is directly linked with the
PISC seminar series run by Cladi. This programme includes a mixture of talks from leading
external speakers (e.g. Prof Steven Green, Sheffield Hallam; Dr Derek Averre, Birmingham; and
Prof Mike Smith, Warwick). In other sessions, PhD students present their research within a
supportive environment, enabling them to practice and hone their presentation skills. All staff are
encouraged to attend regardless of their specialism.

PGR also benefit from the regular Sociology Public Talks seminar series that involves a range of
external speakers and is open to all. External speakers have included: Dr Agnès Chetaille
(Univeristé Libre de Bruxelles); Prof Patrick Brereton (Dublin City); Prof Harriet Bradley (UWE);
Prof Robert Mears (Bath Spa); Dr Allegra Schermuly (Monash); Dr Michael Skey
(Loughborough) and Dr Calogero Giametta (Aix-Marseille Univeristé).

At Faculty level over the REF period PGRs have regularly presented at iSPER organised
seminars and workshops. They have also assisted with organising high profile events e.g.
Gaskarth’s ESRC Seminar Series ‘Normative Challenges to International Society – Rising
Powers and Global Responses’, 2014 http://www.risingpowersglobalresponses.com/


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Students take part in the University’s three-minute thesis competition. SoLCG provides funding
for all PhD students to undertake fieldwork and disseminate their research. The DTC facilitates
doctoral work across a range of disciplines through fostering a vibrant intellectual environment,
supporting students to work with rigour and integrity. The online GradBook system documents
supervisory meetings, identifies progression points, and sets deadlines for PhD students and
their supervisors. In the later stages of enrolment, publication work with supervisors supports
PhD student career development.

PhD students are provided with a Director of Studies and at least one other supervisor with
specialist research expertise in their area and, where possible, an ECR. All PGR supervisors,
examiners and chairs attend mandatory training, including ‘refreshers’ every two years run by
the Doctoral College. They are also fully integrated into the annual University and Faculty
Research Showcase events that offer a vibrant platform to display their work. PGRs also
receive funding to present their work at national and international conferences and take part in
national personal development training e.g. Cumberland Lodge ‘Life Beyond the PhD.’. In a
further sign of progress, PGR students have published a number of papers in high-ranking
journals such as Nationalities Papers, Journal of Women and Aging and Third World Quarterly,
already during their PhD period or shortly afterwards, providing excellent preparation for
academic posts after graduation. Recent PhD students (e.g. Parsons) are also encouraged to
publish monographs from their research.

We have an excellent record of career progression for PhD students. Examples include: PDRF,
University of Plymouth; Professor of Marketing, Munich; Executive Director, Therapies and
Health Science, Cardiff and Vale University Health Board; Researcher at the ONS, winning a
government social research award; Senior Business Analyst at the MET office; Research
Officer, Department of Work and Pensions; Research Fellow, Exeter; Lecturer, Exeter; Lecturer,
Royal Holloway. A recent PhD student was the winner of the Brett William Campbell Thesis
Prize in International Studies, 2020.

c. Equality and Diversity

The unit is committed to equality and diversity and has comprehensive support structures in
place to empower and support all staff. Our teams are diverse and there is a gender split of 6/11
(f/m). In terms of age, approx. 30% of submitted staff are under the age of 44, approx. 30% are
between 45-54 and approx. 40% are 55 plus. We have implemented procedures to ensure that
all staff in SoLCG work within an inclusive environment that includes: workloads, recruitment,
promotions, mentoring and funding access, and research support. It is mandatory for all staff to
undertake equality and diversity and unconscious bias e-learning packages, and those sitting on
interview panels are required to undertake recruitment and selection training. There are
additional e learning packages that provide training on disability awareness. The School
supports flexible working for staff with caring responsibilities and staff with young children are
able to benefit from the workplace nursery scheme and the University’s parental leave policy.

Our staffing policy of implementing gender equality has resulted in significant improvements
including leading research roles. This is reflected by the fact that two of the three professors are
female and the Associate Head of School for Research position in SoLCG has been equally
shared between men and women. There are more women in this unit with a full-time permanent
contract than men. Also the unit has become more culturally and internationally diverse with
approx. 12% of submitted staff from BAME background. Comparisons with 2014 are limited due
to differences in the disciplinary composition of the unit. As part of our continued work to
improve equality, diversity and inclusivity, SoLCG is preparing to submit an application for an
Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2021. A University level working group has been established to
advance accreditation with HE’s Race Equality Charter.

All research active staff have equal access to conference attendance funding, subject to
application via robust processes. Furthermore, all staff have equal opportunity to apply for

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University seed-corn funding and are able to access internally and externally provided
information about research calls relevant to their subject areas. Specialist training workshops
are regularly promoted to all staff where, for example, researchers can receive feedback on
their developing research proposals or advice on applying to particular funding bodies. All bids
are internally reviewed which provides an opportunity for applicants (especially ECRs) to
receive encouragement and constructive feedback. We seek to involve ECRs as much as
possible in our grant application teams so that they grow in confidence and experience. The
school ECR Forum and the University’s Women’s Network offer a collegiate and supportive
space for researchers to discuss research related issues.

3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

a. Income

Sustaining and improving our research income track record was a key part of our REF2014
strategy. In an increasingly competitive environment for obtaining external grant funding, the
unit has been awarded £1.8 million over the duration of REF period and has partnered on
successful grants or consultancy contracts worth over £10 million, from a range of funding
bodies. Of this, 80% has come from UK health research funding bodies or UK central/local
government, or local authority health/hospital authorities. The income for many of our
collaborative projects in the health field is reported in UoA3. Research council grants where we
have acted as principal or co-investigator include ESRC, British Academy, Interdisciplinary
Social Research Foundation, AHRC and Australian Research Council.

Health, Vulnerability and Inequality
Among research funding awarded: R.Sheaff as PI received £800k from HSDR for a project on
‘Commissioning, Co-commissioning and Being Commissioned: The NHS and Third Sector
Organisations’; £482k from HREP for a project on ‘Diverse Healthcare Providers’ (with Clark
and Asthana); £382k from Department of Health for ‘The Patient Safety Collaborative
Evaluation Study’. Also, £428k from NIHR for a project on ‘Integration and Continuity in Primary
Care ’and £168k on a HSDR funded project ‘From Programme Theory to Logic Models for Multi-
specialty Community Providers’. R.Sheaff and Quinn are CIs on a £2.7m NIHR project
‘Dementia-Person Aligned Care Team (D-PACT)’. Quinn and Callaghan received funding as
CIs on a £2m NIHR project ‘Engager 2: Developing and Evaluating a Collaborative Care
Intervention for Prisoners’, as well as a £887k NIHR project ‘Improving Health, under
Community Supervision, with the Support of a Health Trainer’. Asthana is CI on a £2.7 million
ERDF project ‘eHealth Productivity and Innovation in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly (EPIC)’,
and a £4.1 million follow on project and CI on an £82k ERDF project on ‘Innovation in Healthy
Ageing’. Husk received funding as PI from NIHR for a £608k project on ‘Understanding the
Implementation of Link Workers in Primary Care’ and a £175k project ‘Academic Partners
Collaborative for the National Academy for Social Prescribing’ (with Asthana and Elston). Husk
is also PI on a £180k MRC PHIND project on ‘Systems based approaches to Public Health
Intervention development’. Husk is CI on a £270k AHRC project ‘Optimising Cultural Provision
to improve Older People’s Wellbeing through Social Prescribing in the Context of COVID-19.’
Gradinger is co PI on a £253k project from Torbay Medical Research Fund on ‘Understanding
the High Numbers of Children in Statutory Care in Torbay.’ Elston is PI on a £100k project on
‘Devon STP Social Prescribing Evaluation and Research’. Asthana, Elston and Gradinger
were CIs on a £149k project funded by Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust on
‘Organisational Integration and Implementing New Care Models in South Devon and Torbay.’
Elston is CI on a £180k project ‘Evaluation of Urgent and Emergency Care Vanguard Initiatives
in the Southern Cluster’.

Environment, Culture and Society
We have been members of large teams that have successfully been awarded funding from UK
Charities such as Big Lottery and Comic Relief. Phippen has served as a consultant on
numerous research projects over the REF cycle and been involved in 20 Knowledge Transfer

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Partnerships (totalling over £2 million). Notably, he is Digital Research Director for Headstart
Kernow, a £9 million Big Lottery Funded Project 2017-2021. Anderson was CI on a project
investigating public perceptions of deep geothermal energy (Plymouth work package £374k in
EU ESIF project led by Geothermal Engineering Limited with overall value £18m). While not
reflected in our REF income these projects have brought significant value.

Global Instability and Justice
Examples of awards include: Rallings and Thrasher received £99k for their ESRC funded
‘British Local Elections Database’; Holliday received £9k from the British Institute of Persian
Studies/British Academy for a project entitled ‘Iran and the International in the Modern Period’;
and Gaskarth received £8k for British Academy project ‘Holding the Intelligence and Security
Services Accountable’

Methodological Innovations
Among research funding awarded, Parsons received £60k through an ISRF Mid-Career
Fellowship Award ‘Developing Social and Cultural Capital through Photographic e-Narratives at
an Offender/Ex-offender Rehabilitation Scheme’. Sutton was CI on a £70k ESRC funded
project on ‘Embedding Quantitative Methods in the Social Sciences.’

b. Infrastructure and Facilities

The AI fosters a vibrant interdisciplinary culture hosting workshops, seminars, international
conferences and visiting research fellows. We closely follow the university-wide code of good
research practice, which outlines principles for ethics and professional practice. The Faculty
research strategy is coordinated by the Associate Dean for Research (ADR), reviewed on an
annual basis, and takes account of strategies at University and Subject level. We have
established a set of processes to ensure that all bids are peer reviewed and undergo a risk
assessment. The School Research Committee has its own dedicated budget and three rounds
of competitive funding per year are available to support research activities.

The Faculty occupies a £30m state-of-the-art building with staff in SoLCG based in generous
office space located across campus. The Seale Hayne Library provides a wealth of subject
specialist printed and on-line resources to support staff scholarship and each discipline has a
dedicated subject specialist. This provides access to approx. 14,000 current journal titles (and
additional open access titles), 350,000 print books and 500,000 eBooks. It spends in the region
of £115,000.00 on journals for SoLCG per annum.

The Sustainable Earth Institute (SEI), with which we work closely, is housed in the University’s
new Sustainability Hub providing a state-of-the-art low carbon collaborative space for
sustainability research, education and partnership working. Members of the Environment,
Culture and Society cluster regularly present their research at the annual SEI conference and
collaborate in joint externally funded research council/industry funded projects.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

a. Collaborations

A number of structures facilitate collaborative research within this unit at Faculty and Institute
level. The ADR coordinates research calls and expressions of interest across the Faculty and
University to bring together researchers with similar interests and appropriate expertise in order
to create effective interdisciplinary research teams. Within the unit, relevant funding calls and
collaborative opportunities are shared across the group. Our research clusters play a key role in
facilitating and stimulating cross-disciplinary working and staff are encouraged to take on
leading roles in disciplinary associations to expand our networks. Collaboration is also assisted
through strategic appointment of Visiting Professors and Visiting Scholars including Professor
Brigitte Nerlich, Nottingham (Co-Director ‘Making Science Public’,£1.6 million) and Li Shuqiao

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(visiting researcher from Donghua in 2019) and through our own visiting professorships
overseas. Since 2014 stronger European connections have been forged through a range of
ERDF and NIHR research projects (e.g. universities of Milan, Hohenheim, Groningen, Nordland,
Minneapolis), the Karolinska Institutet and TK/WINEG.

The success of this strategy is evidenced by the fact that 53% of publications over this REF
cycle were collaborations with external co-authors including from Oxford and Monash (16% with
international co-authors). In addition, successful bids include collaborations with leading
international HEIs (e.g. Monash and Alberta) and at the national level joint projects with
researchers from Oxford, Exeter, St Andrews, UCL, Sheffield Hallam, Southampton and UWE.
We have strong formal connections with top international universities. Anderson is an Adjunct
Professor in the School of Social Sciences, Monash, and was invited to deliver a series of
seminars at Fudan in 2017. In 2018, we hosted a three-month visit from Dr Schermuly
(Monash), a research fellow on an ARC funded project with Anderson on digital media and
patient activism. R. Sheaff is a PhD supervisor for the Groningen and in 2015 co-taught the
Health Services Research doctoral programme at the Minnesota.

There is considerable collaboration between researchers and other HEIs nationally (e.g.
LSHTM, Nottingham, LSE, Southampton, Manchester, Exeter, Warwick) that has considerably
enhanced the research environment. Holliday was a visiting fellow at Exeter, 2015 and
Letherby visiting professor at Greenwich in 2017. Parsons took part in a research residential
on Research with Vulnerable, Marginalised and/or Hard to Reach Groups held at Girton
College, Cambridge, 2017.

Collaboration at the international level has significantly expanded. For example, Cladi works
closely with Andrea Locatelli (Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Milan). Anderson is a
founding member of the International Environmental Communication Association (IECA), served
on its Board of Directors from 2013-2017, and is a member of the AHRC funded Global Green
Media Production Network. R. Sheaff was Coordinator of the European Health Management
Association Primary Care Special Interest Group, 2014-2016. New interdisciplinary connections
have also been forged. For example, Anderson’s involvement as CI in an ERDF funded project
on attitudes to deep geothermal energy involving geologists, psychologists and sociologists and
her research into public perceptions of microplastics with colleagues in Marine Biology and
Psychology.

b. Contribution to the Research Base

Research council reviewing and research-related consultancies. Kulpa is an evaluator and
rapporteur for Horizon 2020 and Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowships, and elected to the ESF
College of Expert Reviewers (2019-2022). He has reviewed for the National Science Center PL
and State Education Development Agency, Latvia. Anderson is an elected member of the
Swiss National Science Foundation Steering Committee for the Sustainable Economy 2016-
2021. Anderson and Holden are evaluators for Research Foundation Flanders. Holden
reviews for the European Research Council. Cordell has reviewed proposals for Belgian,
Italian, Irish and Polish research foundations. R. Sheaff reviews for Netherlands NWO Division
for Social Sciences, Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development, Freiburg
Institute of Advanced Studies Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, and the Irish Health
Research Board.

At the national level, Anderson and Kulpa have reviewed for the ESRC. R. Sheaff, Quinn and
Elston are peer reviewers for NIHR. Elston is Research Adviser to the NIHR Leadership in
Integrated Teams study, King’s College and Husk is a member of the NIHR HS&DR Funding
Committee. Scott was a member of the Governing Council of the British Academy 2016-19,
Chair of Sociology Section of British Academy 2015-18, and member of Leverhulme Advisory
Panel 2014-20. Parsons is an assessor for the ISRF and reviewer for Leverhulme Trust.
Holliday is Member of the Research Committee, British Institute of Persian Studies.

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Journal editorships, members of editorial boards, journal refereeing and peer-reviewed
book series. Anderson served as Editor-in-Chief of Environmental Communication
(Routledge) from 2014-2017 and a Guest Editor of PLOS ONE in 2017. Cordell is Co-Editor of
Ethnopolitics (Routledge) and Associate Editor of Civil Wars (Routledge). Scott and Letherby
are Co-Editors of Methodological Innovations (Sage).

We are editorial board members on the following journals: Sociology (Husk), Sociological
Research Online (Husk), BMC Public Health (Husk), Mediterranean Politics (Holden),
Environmental Communication (Anderson), Ethnopolitics (Holliday), Nationalities Papers
(Cordell), Methodological Innovations (Sutton). Women’s Studies International Forum
(Letherby). Anderson is an invited advisory board member of Environmental Media.

Invitations to review articles from highly-rated international journals include: British Journal of
Management; Health Policy; Implementation Science; Public Administration; British Medical
Journal; Policy and Politics; Social Science and Medicine; Ethnos; Journal of Health Services
Research and Policy; International Sociology; Biological Conservation; British Journal of Politics
and International Relations; Third World Quarterly; Feminist Media Studies; Sociology of Health
and Illness; Critical Public Health.

Cordell is series editor of the Association for the Study of Nationalities Routledge book series
and the Routledge Handbook of Ethnic Conflict. Anderson is an international advisory board
member for Contemporary Issues in Science Communication, Bristol University Press, and an
advisory board member for Palgrave Studies in Media and Environmental Communication.

Conference organisation. The unit has organised many international conferences and
symposia including the following: Parsons was co-organiser of the 6th BSA Food Studies
Group Conference, Prato, 2019. Anderson was co-organiser of the 15th biennial Conference
on Communication and Environment, UBC, 2019 that attracted 300+ scholars from 25
countries; Kulpa is a co-founder of the biennial European Geographies of Sexualities
conference and a member of the organising committee. He also served as Board Advisor for the
5th Queering Paradigms International Conference, Ecuador, 2014.

At the national level. Parsons was co-ordinator of the Media, Culture, Sport and Food stream at
the BSA Annual conference in 2019, and Cordell was Co-convenor of the Conflict Research
Society Annual conference, Birmingham, 2018. We have regularly hosted the BSA South West
Medical Sociology Group conference at Plymouth and an annual Methodological Innovations
(MI) conference attracting in the region of 100 delegates. The health cluster supported by the
IHC, and in conjunction with the BSA MedSoc group, has also run events such as ‘Using
Secondary Sources to Support Social and Health Research’. Other notable examples include
regular events organised by the MI cluster including a symposium on ‘Reintegration, hospitality
and hostility’ with invited speakers Prof Fergus McNeill (Glasgow) and Alison Urie (Vox Liminis),
organised by Parsons in 2019. Together with M. Sheaff, she also organised an event in 2019
on ‘Lone Parent Families and Food Poverty in Three European Countries’ featuring Dr Rebecca
O’Connell (UCL).

Invited conference papers and keynotes. We have delivered 17 keynote presentations at
national and international conferences. Over the period. Phippen has given keynotes at:
Farrers Annual Safeguarding Conference, London; Institute of Mental Health conference on
online wellbeing, Birmingham; Safer Internet Day conference, Suffolk; Virtual Violence
Conference, Ipswich; Blurring Boundaries Conference, Suffolk; NSPCC Online Safety
Conference, Leicester; Methodist Independent Schools Trust, London, and NOTA, Dublin.
Cordell has delivered keynotes at Warsaw, and the European Centre for Minority Issues
Summer School, Lviv; Canterbury Christ Church; and Central European, Budapest. Kulpa has
delivered keynotes at Utrecht and Tartu. Anderson delivered a keynote at the Brazil-UK
Symposium on Communication Research, GCRF/ Institute of Advanced Study, Warwick.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Campbell delivered a keynote at the European Population Conference, Brussels. We have
given numerous invited papers including: Parsons Food and Embodied Identities in the Early
Modern and Modern World’, Cambridge, 2018 and the BSA Auto/Biography Summer
Conference, Wolfson College, Oxford, 2019; Anderson ‘ESRC Centre for Corpus Approaches
to Social Science Symposium’, Lancaster, 2015; R. Sheaff ‘NIHR Service Organisation and
Delivery Research Programme’, London, 2017.

External PhD examining. Staff regularly serve as external examiners for PhDs including over
the period: Bath; Oxford; Nottingham; Christchurch; St Andrews; Kent; Cardiff; Sheffield;
Westminster; Dublin City; Trinity College Dublin, Birkbeck; Bradford; Keele; Birmingham; Essex;
LSE; Middlesex; Bedford; Bournemouth; Sussex; Melbourne; Monash; Griffith, Witz; Turku and
Tasmania. Cumulatively we have externally examined 46 PhD candidates and 4 professional
doctorates in the current REF period.

Visiting students. We have also hosted visiting international Masters students/ECRs from the
following institutions: UNAM and Korean Institute of Science and Technology.

Prestigious research fellowships and awards. Scott CBE is a Fellow of the British Academy.
He received the BSA Distinguished Service for Sociology award in 2014, Honorary Doctorate,
Essex (2016) and Edinburgh (2020, to be awarded 2021). Anderson, Asthana, Letherby and
Scott are elected fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences. Anderson is an elected Fellow of
the Royal Society of Arts and nominated in 2018 by the Swiss National Science Foundation to
appear in AcademiaNet, a European database of outstanding female academics. During the
REF period, Parsons was awarded the Sociology of Health and Illness Foundation Mildred
Blaxter Post-Doctoral Fellowship Award and an ISRF Mid-Career Fellowship. Holliday was
appointed Director of the Modern Research Project, British Institute of Persian Studies, British
Academy https://www.bips.ac.uk/research-programmes/modern-iran/ Husk is Honorary Senior
Public Health Research Fellow, Public Health England, an Honorary Senior Research Fellow,
Exeter, and Affiliate Member of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health. Elston is
Honorary Research Fellow, Public Health England and Fellow of the Faculty of Public Health.
The article 'Repositioning the boundaries between public and private healthcare providers in the
English NHS’ (co-authored by R. Sheaff, Gibson, Clark and Asthana) was selected as a
Highly Commended Paper in the 2020 Emerald Literati Awards.

c. Contribution to Economy and Society

Our breadth of interdisciplinary expertise enables us to bring multiple approaches and methods
to addressing urgent social policy issues in health, global instability and society, and the
environmental crisis. This has enabled us to deliver applied and theoretically informed world-
class research to a wide range of groups including national and local government, healthcare
providers, NGOs, social enterprises, patient groups and offender communities. A key element of
our impact strategy has been to encourage staff to develop effective channels of knowledge
exchange, including the provision of evidence and advice to parliament and government bodies.

Asthana has given evidence to the Communities & Local Government Committee Seminar on
Needs Assessment, 2016, and sits on the Advisory Committee on Resource Allocation (the
independent body that advises NHS England on the distribution of over £100 billion of NHS
resources). Phippen has given evidence to BBFC on the impact of Digital Economy Act 2017
and to the Information Commissioner’s Office Inquiry in Age Appropriate Design Code. He has
provided evidence to the Law Commission Review and the Welsh Government, and provided
evidence directly to Government (including the Ministry of Justice, Department of Digital,
Culture, Media and Sport, Department for Education and the Office of the Australian eSafety
Commissioner). Anderson was an invited advisor to the Department of Energy and Climate
Change on the Pathways to Paris 2015 publication. Her research on public perceptions of
microbeads in cosmetics is referred to in a Parliamentary POSTnote (528 June 2016) and the
European Commission (Initial Statement by the Group of Chief Scientific Advisors, 2017). M.

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sheaff has provided written evidence to the House of Commons Health Committee and
Parsons on the Future of the Probation Service.

Asthana has sat on: Commissioning Panel, Policy Research Programme (DH); Change Grow
Live; National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE); Technical Advisory Group to
the Advisory Committee on Resource Allocation (DH); Rural England; Royal Society for Public
Health; Community Organisers and Community First Expert Reference Group (Cabinet Office),
and Commission for Rural Communities (DEFRA). Gibson has worked with the National Rural
Crime Network and Cumbria Police and Crime Commissioner’s Office to produce a Police
Workforce Simulation Model. Holden, as Honorary Lecture Secretary for Plymouth Athenaeum,
has staged a variety of public talks in conjunction with U3A.

Researchers in the Environment, Culture and Society cluster have undertaken a variety of
pathways to impact to engage audiences and contribute to society e.g. public lectures,
international and national media coverage and webinars. For example, Phippen has delivered
talks on young people and internet safety at Callywith College, Bromsgrove College Treviglas
School and Wadebridge School and his work on internet safety has attracted extensive media
coverage including Telegraph, Times, Guardian, Independent, Daily Mail, BBC Radio 1, BBC
Radio 4, BBC Radio 5, Sky News, BBC2, BBC3, BBC4, Channel 4. Other examples include
Anderson’s public lecture in the ‘Science in the News Explained’ Nobel Series for British
Science Week 2016, webinar presentation ‘Is the Media Failing us on Climate Change?’(Hope
for the Future 2020 series) and interview for ORF (news channel FM4) and Der Standard,
Austria. Funding from the ESRC Festival of Social Science has enabled us to engage the public
on the climate crisis and behaviour change and on young people and digital technology. It has
also enabled Parsons’ research collaboration with Landworks (on resettlement of offenders) to
reach a wider audience. One of the outputs from this is a website that has had over 14,000
views from 85 countries.




                                                                                         Page 14
