Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 7: Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1.1   Unit context

The School of Earth Sciences (ES) conducts world leading research in numerous aspects of our
diverse discipline. We are committed to the essential role of the Earth Sciences in understanding
our planet, its history, and our place on it, and our School is ideally placed to address the major
resource, hazard and environmental challenges of the next century. To that end, we played a
leading role in the creation of an Earth and environment centred University Vision and Strategy,
with our School strategy enabling this by supporting staff; investing in infrastructure; and
developing interdisciplinary collaborations and strategic partnerships. Consequently, the School
continues to evolve and thrive, adding strategic capacity since REF2014 in economic geology,
geophysics and environmental geosciences.
We aspire to be recognised for our consistent innovative, high-quality, high-impact research in an
exceptionally collegial environment. Evidence of this in the REF period include:
   •    We are 15th in the 2020 QS World University list (from 29th in 2014). The citation impact of
        our papers is the best of any UK Earth Sciences department and 5th best in the world1.
   •    Our equity-centred people strategy was central to the School achieving Athena Swan
        Silver (one of only three ES departments in the UK). We now have near gender-parity at
        all staffing levels including Professor and have led efforts to address racial and ethnic
        diversity in the discipline.
   •    Staff at all levels have received outstanding individual recognition:
            o At senior level, this includes eight Fellows of the Royal Society – five currently in
                post (Benton, Cashman, Donoghue, Elliott, Sparks), one Emeritus (Hawkesworth)
                and two departed to competitor institutions (Kendall, 2019, and Blundy, 2020). Five
                of these were awarded during this REF period.
            o Our submission also includes five staff who have held prestigious mid-career
                Fellowships, such as Leverhulme and Wolfson Research Merit Fellowships, during
                the REF period (Biggs, Cashman, Donoghue, Pancost, Schmidt).
            o We have hosted more than 30 Independent Early Career Fellows, with 10 current
                Fellows as part of our submission. >40% of our permanent academic staff have
                been supported by such Fellowships with six holding them during the REF period.
   •    We have directly benefited from more than £100M of strategic investment into estates
        (including £63.8M for the Life Sciences building), capital and infrastructure, and brought in
        £45M of external research income (£1M/FTE), including £7M across the eight ERC grants
        active or awarded in the REF period.
   •    We have driven national and international policy on volcanic risk, aviation and hydraulic
        fracturing, and generated projected benefits of more than £100M for our partners. Bristol
        Earth Scientists play significant roles in UK science leadership, including leading and
        serving on committees for more than 60 research councils or professional bodies, and
        advising both UK and overseas governments.


1 (CNCI parameter – Shanghai ARWU world subject ranking 2019)



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
This broad impact in policy, industry and public engagement, has been recognised with civic prizes
including a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for outstanding research into volcanic risk, and a
knighthood to former volcanology group leader and SAGE member, Sir Steve Sparks. Celebrated
public engagement schemes such as the Bristol Dinosaur Project have worked with civic partners
to engage with over half a million members of the public and now centre engagement with
marginalised groups.

1.1.2   Unit Structure




School Structure
Since REF 2014 we have refreshed our organisational structures, invested in our Groups and
revised our Research Themes to strengthen core research areas while engaging with the dynamic
evolution of our discipline. Our research structure and strategy remain guided by Research
Committee (ResComm), and we established two new research-facing committees: the Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC) which supports staff to thrive; and the Engagement,
Partnership and Outreach Committee (EPOC) which coordinates our diverse collaborative activity.
The Directors of all three serve on School Board (the School leadership committee).
The School’s Research is organised into six research groups with international reputation:
Geochemistry, Geophysics, Palaeobiology, Petrology, Marine and Terrestrial Environments, and
Volcanology. These groups provide the infrastructure that enables our research to flourish (e.g.,
laboratories and equipment, §3.2), and operate as administrative units and frameworks for
mentoring staff and students (§2.1), with the group leaders serving on School Board. Furthermore,
environmental sustainability is a pillar of the University’s Vision and the School is at the heart of the
associated Earth/Environment-centred interdisciplinary research ecosystem, including the Cabot
Institute for the Environment and the majority of Schools in the University (detailed in §4).
Complementing these internal operational structures, our intellectual strengths and ambitions are
encapsulated in four cross-cutting, interdisciplinary research themes: Global change, Natural
Resources and Sustainability; Evolution of Earth and Life; Crustal Processes and Hazards; and
Planetary Formation, Structure and Dynamics. These encompass our collaborations within and
beyond the School, and adapt and evolve over time.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
1.2       Research Themes

Global change, natural resources and sustainability

Overview: Addressing the intersecting challenges of climate change, environmental degradation
and sustainable resource provision is a priority for the School. We have long provided leadership in
these areas, both within the discipline and beyond, including via the Cabot Insititute, but to expand
and support that we have invested in three strategic appointments in biogeochemistry and
geomicrobiology (Bryce, Byrne, Pancost) and >£4M in our world leading geochemistry,
geomicrobiology and environmental mineralogy facilities (§3.2).

Highlights over the REF period:
      •    Understanding the oceans. Investment in our geochemistry infrastructure and a plethora of
           new samples and observations from Bristol-led research cruises yielded critical insights into
           changes in oceanic nutrient and carbon cycling, including interactions with the cryosphere
           and seafloor boundaries [Hawkins et al, 2018; Costa et al, 2020; Shlitzer et al, 2017], and
           the first observations of microplastics in deep sea organisms [Taylor et al, 2016].
      •    New Technology for Sustainable Energy Infrastructure. Through new appointments
           (Verdon), new partnerships, and technological innovation in applied geophysics, we made
           policy- and industry-facing impact via microseismic monitoring of energy (nuclear and gas)
           infrastructure [e.g., Kettlety et al, 2020]. This included critical contributions to the policy
           debate on hydraulic fracturing, and monitoring and regulation protocols for the UK fracking
           industry (Microseismic Impact Case Study).
      •    Building industry partnerships to deliver crucial metal resources. Large amounts of metals,
           and especially copper, are required to deliver a low-carbon future. We applied our
           fundamental expertise in crustal magmatism to the development of porphyry copper
           deposits from which 75% of the world’s copper is derived [Matjuschkin et al, 2016]. This
           was the foundation for an expanding strategic relationship with BHP Billiton (Copper Impact
           Case Study).


Future Ambitions: We will accelerate the transformation of our industry engagement, shifting
away from exploratory oil/gas research towards the sustainable extraction of critical metals, carbon
capture and sequestration, resilient energy infrastructure and water and soil resources. This work
will be conducted within an interdisciplinary context that recognises social justice, land rights and
equity in collaboration with Social Sciences and Environmental Humanities colleagues.

Crustal Processes and Hazards

Overview: We conduct fundamental research into the physical and chemical processes controlling
stress field and fluid flow within the crust, to mitigate the impacts of induced and natural hazards in
the UK and developing countries. We have expanded this theme to include earthquakes and
faulting, and the implications for natural and induced seismicity.

Highlights over the REF period:
      •    Understanding magma in the crust. Bristol scientists have made a paradigm shift from the
           classic geological concept of a magma-filled chamber to that of an inter-connected network


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       of partially crystalline, magmatic mush [e.g., Cashman et al, 2017]. This new understanding
       has widespread implications for applications spanning from eruption precursors to
       economic deposits (see Copper impact Case).
   •   Volcanic and earthquake hazard in the developing world. Responding to some of the most
       significant volcanic crises in recent years (Guatamala, Indonesia), we provided new insights
       into the drivers of volcanic unrest and models for volcanic hazards [Manzella et al, 2015]
       and reassessed global magnitude-frequency eruption relationships [Rougier et al, 2018].
       Our success is enabled by the strong bilateral relationships with volcano observatories
       globally, and our leadership in the 2015 United Nations Global Assessment of Risk
       (GAR15), (see Volcanic Risk case study). Our expertise in earthquakes has been used to
       design new building regulations for developing countries through multidisciplinary Global
       Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) projects, including strong links with the British
       Geological Survey.
   •   Volcano and Earthquake Monitoring from space. To overcome the lack of monitoring of
       most active volcanoes, we developed novel approaches to satellite observations applying
       deep learning techniques to satellite radar images (InSAR), now being used to automate
       baseline volcano monitoring on a global scale [e.g., Biggs, 2014; Anantrasirichai, 2018]. We
       designed the first publicly funded, university-led CubeSat which will provide 3-D imaging of
       volcanic gas emissions. This success is enabled by strong links with Bristol’s Engineering
       Departments, the UK and European Space Agencies and leadership roles in the Natural
       Environment Research Council (NERC) Centre for the Observation and Modelling of
       Earthquakes, Volcanoes and Tectonics (COMET).


Future ambitions: In the next few years we will bring modelling of multiphase systems and the
new wealth of environmental data combined with recent advances in machine learning to bear on
our understanding of dynamic crustal processes, including extending the scientific basis for both
hazard management and resource exploration. We plan a cluster hire in the area of global hazard
and risk centring volcanic, magmatic, tectonic and anthropogenic processes, and we will continue
to leverage our strong collaborations in developing countries.

Evolution of Earth and Life

Overview: The School has traditional strengths in palaeobiology (recently ranked the best in the
world2), palaeoclimate and the deep Earth. This is enriched by complementary strengths in
Geographical Sciences and Biological Sciences, and recent cross-Faculty appointments. Our
common interest in the long-term evolution of the Earth’s linked interior, surface, atmosphere and
biosphere drives collaborations and paradigm-shifting research in Earth history.


Highlights over the REF period:
   •   Beyond Palaeontology. We have developed paleobiology from a world-leading but isolated
       research group in Earth Sciences to a cross-faculty endeavour centred around innovative
       genomic, molecular and biomechanical approaches to understanding organismal evolution.
       This development thrived due to major investment from the University, including the new
       Life Sciences building and new posts with an evolutionary focus in the School of Biological
       Sciences (Harrison, Paps, Williams), reinforcing the two joint positions (Vinther, Pisani)

2 The Center for World University Rankings (CWUR) 2017.


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       between our two Schools. Main advances include understanding display and camouflage
       behaviours in extinct birds and feathered dinosaurs (one of the ‘top ten scientific
       discoveries of the decade’3) [e.g., Brown, 2017]; challenging timescales of organismal
       evolution using novel genomic and molecular methods to infer deep interrelationships of
       animals and plants [Dos Reis et al, 2015; Puttick et al, 2018]; and overturning ideas of the
       origin and form of mammals using tomographic reconstruction and biomechanical
       modelling [Gill et al, 2014].
   •   Palaeoclimate. We have built an innovative palaeoclimate community in partnership with
       Geographical Sciences (e.g. Valdes, Lunt), supported by investment in world-leading
       geochemistry facilities and HPC. We provided primary evidence that pCO2 has likely not
       exceeded 450 ppm for the last 3 million years [Martinez-Boti, 2015] nor 1500 ppm for the
       past 50 million years [Anagnostou, 2016]. This contributed to the inclusion of palaeoclimate,
       including palaeoclimate-derived estimates of climate sensitivity, in IPCC assessments (with
       Schmidt as an IPCC Coordinating Lead Author, §4.2).
   •   Understanding the deep volatile cycle. We have driven research to understand the role of
       the deep Earth in the cycle of volatile elements over geological time, supported by
       continued investment in isotope mass spectrometry, high-pressure experimental facilities
       and HPC to support deep Earth seismology, as well as investment in staff (Lord, Irving).
       Under this programme we have, for example, revealed unexpected potential for deep
       reservoirs of carbon and hydrogen in the mid-mantle [Thomson et al, 2015; Walter et al,
       2015].


Future Ambitions: Cross-faculty appointments create exciting new avenues for collaboration.
These are further enabled by novel molecular insights into evolution and our analytical innovations
that have expanded the “isotopic window” into the ancient Earth. Critical questions include
determining the planetary drivers of Earth’s carbon inventory and the ecological, biological and
biogeochemical consequences of pCO2 change.

Planetary formation, structure and dynamics

Overview: Planetary research in the School was a nascent area in REF2014 but has been
strengthened by new appointments and our first Earth-Sciences-led STFC Consolidated grants
with Physics colleagues (2014, 2017, 2020). The heart of this theme is our expertise in isotope
geochemistry, atmospheric processes, mineral physics and seismology, allowing the investigation
of the formation, interior structure and atmospheres of solar system bodies.

Selected REF period highlights
   •   Measuring Marsquakes. Since 2010 we have been part of the UK team developing the
       main SEIS instrument for the NASA InSight geophysics mission to Mars. We have
       capitalised on our key roles across the Science team, from pre-launch development and
       verification, through post-landing deployment and into the main scientific phase of the
       mission, including the observation of the first ‘marsquakes’ [Lognonne et al, 2020].
   •   Probing the early solar system with next generation mass-spectrometry. With our industrial
       partners, Thermo Fisher Scientific, we developed a one-of-a-kind prototype mass-
       spectrometer, Proteus (§3.2.2). This allowed us to develop novel isotopic techniques which

3 https://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/top-ten-scientific-discoveries-decade-180973873/



                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
           have shed new light on long-standing questions about the solar system’s primordial
           radioactive inventory [Luu et al 2019; Gregory et al, 2020] and the fundamental role of
           silicate vapour loss during collisional accretion on the Earth’s bulk composition [Hin et al,
           2017].
      •    Planetary atmospheres. Members of the school are on the science teams of major missions
           to study planetary atmospheres, including Cassini-Huygens, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter,
           and Trace Gas Orbiter, and co-led a recent ESA mission proposal to Titan. We have
           expanded our observational capability to include telescope observations, including the
           Herschel Space Telescope and the Atacama Large Millimeter Array which allowed us to
           show Titan’s atmosphere is much colder than expected due to enhanced radiative cooling
           from trace gases [Teanby et al, 2017].


Future ambitions: By leveraging new STFC funding, new staff (Irving) and collaborations with
Chemistry, Geography, Physics and Engineering we will tackle critical questions in planetary
science, including: the nature and origin of pre-solar grains; seasonal drivers of planetary
atmosphere dynamics; and the interior structure of Mars and Moon. Continued commercial
collaboration on instrumental development will keep us in the vanguard of analytical capability.

1.3       Research Strategy

We remain deeply committed to our long-standing international strengths in volcanology, petrology,
palaeobiology, geophysics, environmental sciences and geochemistry and have identified several
areas of strategic interdisciplinary collaboration or investment to support, complement or expand
on those. We have considerable achievements against the strategic goals identified in the 2014
Environment Statement and Impact Template (denoted by REF2014 below) but they remain vital and
relevant, complemented by new goals that anticipate the continued interdisciplinary evolution of the
Earth Sciences.

(a) Academic Staff
Goals: Grow academic staff numbers in areas of strategic need REF2014.
Achievements (2014-2020):
      •    Our strategic appointment in Applied Geophysics (Verdon) has delivered >£100M of
           projected impact for our partners (Microseismic Case Study).
      •    We built a broad planetary theme including new Fellowships (Myhill, Susorney) and an
           academic (Irving).
      •    Appointment of core staff (Cooper, Bryce, Byrne, Pancost) has been the foundation for the
           new Global Change, Natural Resources and Sustainability Theme.

Ambitions (2021-2026):
      •    Appoint in new areas of strategic need, including interdisciplinary growth through joint
           appointments in areas such as Digital Environment, and a cluster hire in
           Volcanology/Petrology/Tectonics.
      •    Develop mechanisms to further integrate our pool of >80 esteemed visitors and partners
           into our academic body.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


(b) Developing the Talent Pipeline
Goals: Continued growth of our postgraduate cohort with emphasis on overseas students REF2014,
improved support for postdoctoral research assistants (PDRA) and early career researchers
(ECR).
Achievements (2014-2020):
   •   We have increased our postgraduate research (PGR) numbers over the REF
       period (average of 19 doctoral awards per year, compared to 15 for 2008-13, with an
       average PGR cohort size of 92, compared to 84), with an increased proportion of overseas
       students.
   •   Bristol was one of the first signatories of the Researcher Development Concordat, and we
       have brought in a new, bespoke mentoring system to support our PDRAs and Fellows
       (central to our Athena Swan Silver award).
Ambitions (2021-2026):
   •   Increase the (especially BAME) diversity of our early career researchers, for example by
       focussing on pathways to PGR programmes and support for Fellowships.
   •   Mitigate the impacts of Covid on ECRs and staff.


(c) Research Funding
Goal: Growth and diversification of our research funding base REF2014.
Achievements (2014-2020):
   •   £44.8M of research funding income (50% increase over REF2014), doubling the amount of
       non-UKRI/EC funding.
   •   Highlights include a strategic partnership with BHP Billiton (£3.6M), leadership or
       partnership in interdisciplinary GCRF grants worth £6M, 20 strategic or large grants,
       and eight European Research Council (ERC) Awards.
Ambitions (2021-2026):
   •   Build further resilience to political and economic shocks through an adaptable research
       strategy. This includes engagement with the post-Covid green recovery and local/regional
       partnerships to capitalise on the ‘Levelling-Up’ agenda.
   •   Blue skies research remains critical to our ambition, and we aim to translate our success
       with ERC to schemes such as Future Leaders and Pushing the Frontiers.


(d) Research Infrastructure
Goal: Development of our research infrastructure REF2014.
Achievements (2014-2020):
   •   We have directly benefited from >£100M of strategic School, University and external
       investment and commitments, including the £64M Life Sciences Building, £10M of High-
       Performance Computing capital, new CT and Radiocarbon AMS Facilities and over £5M of
       new mass spectrometry capacity.
Ambitions (2021-2026):
   •   Support areas of strategic need with cutting-edge facilities and nurture technological
       innovation. Specific targets include launching UoB-SAT in 2021 and new biogeochemical

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
           imaging facilities. A new building for the geosciences is currently in the top tier of Bristol’s
           strategic infrastructure priorities.


(e) Interdisciplinary and Multidisciplinary Research
Goal: Advocate, create and lead interdisciplinary structures within the University.
Achievements (2014-2020):
      •    We led in the creation of the Cabot Institute of the Environment (the first University of
           Bristol University Research Institute, URI, in 2010) and directed it from 2013-2018.
      •    Integration of our Palaeobiology group into the University’s Life Sciences vision led to
           coordinated appointments with Biological Sciences.
      •    More than half of our core staff have funded collaborations with colleagues from other
           disciplines (>80 total).
Ambitions (2021-2026):
      •    Expand and deepen our engagement with the technology-focussed URIs (Jean Golding
           Institute and the nascent Digital Futures Institute).


(f) Building Research Staff Capacity
Goal: High workloads emerged as a key concern during this REF period. We expanded our
strategy to address this, protecting the capacity of our research-facing staff with investment in our
technical, administrative and teaching-focused teams.
Achievements (2014-2020):
      •    We have expanded core technical and administrative staff by 32% (now 22.2 FTE) to
           support research and impact.
      •    Two academic teaching staff (increasing from 1 to 3) have been appointed, relieving
           pressure on research.
Ambitions (2021-2026):
      •    Procure further support for public engagement, expanding on the success of the Bristol
           Dinosaur Project.
      •    Expand core technical support in the isotope geochemistry labs and in our newly
           refurbished geomicrobiology and biogeochemistry labs


1.4       Impact Strategy

Our School embraces the relevance of our research for broader societal impact, from inspiring a
fascination for science through public engagement, to providing the scientific framework for local,
national and international policy and nurturing industrial collaborations and academic consultancy.

(a) Partnerships
Goals: Strengthen and expand our critical partnershipsREF2014.
Achievements:
      •    Our Impact Case Studies highlight our work with the copper and aviation industries and
           global policy on volcanic risk and the UK policy on fracking. We host two large platforms for



                                                                                                     Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       long-term industrial engagement – the Bristol University Microseismicity Project and the
       BHP-funded Bristol PCD project.
   •   We work with the Knowledge Exchange Team to support emerging areas of impact through
       seedcorn funding (e.g., PolicyBristol, Cabot Institute), impact accelerators and innovation
       grants (19 over the REF period).
   •   The School is embedded in the University's Civic Agenda, with a long record of working
       with Bristol's cultural, environmental and racial equality sectors (e.g., partnering in the
       construction of Bristol’s One City Plan).

Ambitions:
   •   Leverage strategic partnerships at university level and foster global partnerships.
   •   Enable analytical and experimental innovation, building on current relationships with
       Thermo-Fisher and Elementar (§3.2).


(b) Outward facing activities
Goals: Develop an external advisory network and integrate outward facing activities.
Achievements:
   •   Our Engagement, Partnerships and Outreach Committee provides an integrated, inclusive
       and strategic policy for impact, public engagement, outreach, careers and recruitment.
       New frameworks will leverage our industrial partnerships and alumni networks to provide
       internships and careers advice for PG students and inspire the next generation into the
       geosciences.
   •   Working with the Faculty of Science Partnership Office, we have developed a faculty-level
       scheme for the formal appointment of ‘Industry’ Professors and Fellows, which will form our
       external advisory board. The first appointment is John Thompson (UBC, Cornell) an expert
       in economic geology and resource sustainability.
Ambitions:
   •   Recruit 3-4 additional fellows and strategically add to our community of honorary staff with
       appointments from Bristol civic, government and industry partners. We will draw from and
       engage with this community to form a network of external advisors.


(c) Public engagement
Goals: Ensure public engagement is strategic, inclusive and sustainable.
Achievements:
   •   We have generated exemplar public engagement on a local scale, by engaging with civic
       authorities to host major events such as the DINOMANIA event at Bristol Zoo (350,000
       visitors) and the William Smith Bicentenary Lectures (6000 visitors).
   •   Our staff feature in several BBC productions attracting a global audience (e.g.,
       Attenborough and the Dragons, Sky at Night).
   •   Our outreach strategy has been pivoted towards widening participation through widely
       celebrated schemes such as the Bristol Dinosaur Project and Black and Green
       Ambassadors.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Ambitions:
      •    Increase the sustainability of our public engagement activities by providing centralized
           funding.
      •    Ensure our engagement reaches marginalised groups and contributes to the diversification
           of the Earth Sciences discipline
      •    Broaden our content to include current global issues including resource management and
           climate change.


1.5       Commitment to open research

Open access to publications and the data which underlie them is a core value held by the School.
The Institutional Environment Statement (REF5a) outlines Bristol’s commitment and broad
approach to open access. The Director of Research is responsible for local strategic direction and
monitoring open access. We regularly contribute to the development of community policy and
systems. Examples include:
      •    A community white paper [Davies et al., 2017] which establishes standards for access to
           3D and 4D fossil morphology data (a huge technical and organisational challenge).
      •    Creating a library of over 500,000 satellite interferometry images of volcanos
           [Anantrasirichai et al, 2018, https://comet.nerc.ac.uk/comet-lics-portal/; 40+ views per day]
           and developing a dedicated system for volcano deformation
           (https://comet.nerc.ac.uk/comet-volcano-portal/).
      •    Establishing a repository for protocols and standards for EPMA (UK-EPMA, planned to go
           online in 2021), and nascent data protocols for volcanic tephra.
      •    Contributed to the open science initiative of the Collaboratory for the Study of Earthquake
           Predictability (CSEP), including developing a Python toolkit.
Simple provision is not always enough, and we are pro-actively engaged in ensuring the
accessibility of our science. For example, we developed a web-based tool for assessing the
hazards associated with lahars (www.laharflow.bristol.ac.uk; users from >15 countries have run
>3,200 hazard models since 2017) and ash clouds (www.plumerise.bris.ac.uk; 95,000 models
since 2013). To enable the best of use these resources, we have provided training for volcano
monitoring authorities, especially in developing countries in South and Central America and Asia.

1.6 Research Integrity

We pride ourselves on adhering to the strictest standards of research integrity, following the
processes and guidelines set down by the University, as outlined in REF5a. The review, mentoring
and support structures outlined in §2.1 provide the primary mechanism for monitoring, training and
advice of staff in this regard, and extra provisions and training are made for PGR students (§2.2).




                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


 2. People

2.1.1 Staffing Strategy

Recruitment strategy



                                                        Demographic profile of the School for the
                                                        REF2014 and REF2021 submissions.
                                                        The similarity demonstrates the
                                                        effectiveness of our ‘talent pipeline’ and
                                                        the future sustainability of the unit (nearly
                                                        80% of our submitted staff being >10
                                                        years from retirement, and 50% are below
                                                        age 45).

Staffing and recruitment is a key component of our broader research strategy with three goals: (a)
consolidating and maintaining capacity in our core research areas, (b) building new
capacity in strategic research areas and (c) building a diverse and inclusive community of
scholars. We have appointed five new academic staff to externally advertised posts during the
REF period (Verdon, Melbourne, Bryce, Byrne, Irving), converted an externally-funded post to
core-funded (Cooper), and recruited Pancost from the School of Chemistry (to Head of School).
Our School is further enhanced by our honorary and emeritus staff (e.g., Aspinall, Hawkesworth,
Thompson, Janis, Meredith), who collaborate with us on research and provide mentoring and
guidance.
Our appointment process foregrounds equity and inclusivity (§2.3). We also appoint via proleptic
lectureships, an approach based on mentoring and supporting ECRs to win Fellowships and thrive
with them (21% of our submitted staff are ECR, including one on permanent contract). Previous
proleptic appointments in the School have been promoted to Associate Professor (e.g., Buss,
Hendry, Teanby) and Professor (e.g., Gottsmann, Rust, Schmidt, Wookey). Our approach has
resulted in achieving near gender-parity at all levels (see §2.3), and ensured a strong international
dimension (e.g., almost half our submitted staff were outside the UK before starting in Bristol). 9.5
FTE (21%) of our category A submitted staff are on non-permanent contracts, all but one of who
are on research fellowships. As with the wider discipline, racial and ethnic diversity remains low;
addressing this shapes our public engagement, student recruitment and staff appointment policies.

Staff supporting research
A core part of our Staff strategy is enabling academic staff to excel in research by providing strong
technical and administrative support (32% increase since REF2014). Technical support now has a
much clearer strategic focus, both at School and University level (§3.2). Additionally, the
appointment of two teaching-only permanent academics has allowed more capacity to pursue
research.

2.1.2 Staff development

Support and Review Structures
The University’s Staff Review and Development (SRD) process requires the School to support all
staff via a yearly review; this is a staff-led discussion about their ambitions and the support they

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
need to achieve them. In Earth Sciences, the Head of School conducts SRD for all permanent
academic staff and senior research fellows. Informal mentoring is well-established through our
research groups. Additionally, within the REF period we launched a formal mentoring scheme for
academic staff at lecturer and senior lecturer level. This has received positive feedback (100% in a
2019 staff survey), and the scheme is being expanded. An additional specialised School committee
provides targeted support for those seeking promotion.

Supporting and Rewarding Research
In line with updated University policy, we have developed a new, transparent workload model, to
enable distribution of other activities and protect research time. This new model embodies the
ethos that all academic staff share teaching and administrative duties and have an equal allocation
of research time. It also recognises a broad range of research activity, including impact generation,
public engagement and service to the scientific community (§4). Similarly, the criteria for promotion
have recently been transformed to recognise and reward impact-generating (industrial, community
and policy-facing) activities.
We support those who have achieved research excellence via external Fellowships (e.g.,
Leverhulme, Wolfson Research Merit; five held during the REF period). We provide further support
via Bristol’s University Research Fellowship Scheme. We also have an annual ‘staff constraints’
process, which alongside SRD allows us to adjust teaching load, liberating research time.

Stimulating Research and Impact Collaborations
Research and impact excellence are driven by a bidirectional flow of people between other
academic institutions, industrial partners and third sector organisations (more than 200 total visits
over the REF period). Many visits (up to 6 months) are funded by the University’s Benjamin
Meaker Fellowship scheme, bringing 32 Fellows to the School since 2014. Additional support for
interdisciplinary collaborative visits comes from the URIs, including the Cabot Innovation Fund, and
international partnership events. Members of the School have also hosted or organised numerous
workshops and conferences aimed at external organisations. Honorary positions (>100 currently in
post) are also a critical part of building collaborations.

Additional support for ECRs
Bristol was one of the first signatories of the Researcher Development Concordat and has
developed a raft of policies to implement its principles (see REF5a). At School-level the >100
PDRAs employed over the REF period are championed by representatives who have been
instrumental in ensuring the local adoption of the Concordat policies, such as the entitlement to
spend 20% of their time on career development. These reps also organise and host a regular
PDRA Forum and attend School Assemblies.
PDRAs are formally reviewed by their line manager, but extra support and mentoring is provided
by eight senior academics in the School. This includes one of our Emeritus Professors
(Hawkesworth), who the School has paid to support ECR career development. ECRs also have
formal recourse for any pastoral issues through the School Research Director and Head of School.
The PDRA Forum delivers co-created advice and training, for example around fellowship schemes,
led and initiated by PDRAs. School support is augmented by the University’s Research, Enterprise
and Development (RED) Team and Bristol Clear (REF5a).




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
2.2 Research students




The PGR cohort over this REF period has been larger, more diverse and more productive than
ever before. We have increased our PGR numbers over the REF period (average of 19 doctoral
awards per year, compared to 15 for 2008-13, with an average PGR cohort size of 92, compared
to 84), with a significant increase in overseas students. 18% of our research students have
identified as BAME, and 46% as female (compared to subject national averages of 9% and 43%
respectively for a similar period). More than 350 papers published in the REF period have PGR
student authors (compared with 160 in REF2014). We have recently additionally formalised an
MSc by Research programme, including interdisciplinary projects through the Cabot Institute.

Funding
Our students’ funders represent the breadth of our research. Our largest cohort (35) are NERC-
funded students through the GW4+ Doctoral Training Partnership (Bristol, Exeter, Cardiff and
Bath), which includes formal partnerships with BGS, BAS, CEH, Met Office, NHM and PML and a
further 28 associates drawn from industry, media and environmental agencies. More than 60 of our
students were supported by CASE supplementary awards from, e.g., BGS, BHP, GNS Science,
AWE and TerraDat UK Ltd. Moreover, we participate in other Bristol Doctoral Training Partnerships
(DTP) and Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) (funders include BBSRC and EPSRC), competitive
international scholarship schemes subsidised by University agreements (CSC and Conacyt), and
attract self-funded students (28 over the REF period).

Recruitment
The School of Earth Sciences receives over 100 applications for PGR study per year, with more
than 50% coming from overseas. 42% (10 of 24) of PGR students registered in 2019-20 were
overseas, compared to 15% (3 of 20) in 2015-16. For funded PhD studentships the ratio of
applications to places averages 20:1. All PhD applications are centrally administered and are
reviewed by at least two academic staff (who receive equality and diversity training), and protected
characteristics are monitored at every stage of the process. DTPs use a panel of academics who
review all candidates to ensure that the best students are selected.

Monitoring and Support
All students have at least two supervisors in the School, and often additional supervisors at
external partners. There is an annual progress monitoring system in place. Each year, every
student gives a research presentation, produces a report, and is interviewed by two independent
members of academic staff who report on progress and surface any concerns (their own or the
student’s). Formal comments are recorded through an online Faculty system, and responses by


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
the student, supervisors, head of the graduate school and graduate Dean are incorporated. A
range of additional support and monitoring measures (both informal and formal) can be invoked in
order to bring projects back on track. Separate from the APM process, we have a School Graduate
tutor who provides pastoral support to PGR students, and the University has also launched an
extensive student well-being service.

Training and Development
Postgraduate support and training have been significantly enhanced over the REF period. At the
heart of this is the Bristol Doctoral College (established in October 2013). This body (which
includes dedicated facilities and study space for PGR students) provides a wide range of training
and support for PGRs (technical skills, language support for overseas students, career
development and finances). University Research Institutes offer complementary training in
communications and policy engagement. The CDTs and DTPs offer specialised training, with the
GW4+ NERC DTP providing a portfolio of more than 500 courses across the four partner
universities. Furthermore, the School has organised and hosted several externally funded (e.g.,
NERC, British Geophysical Association) courses over the REF period, including Software
Carpentry, GPS Processing and Fundamentals of EPMA available to internal and external PGRs
and ECRs.

Outcomes
Our PGR students have been awarded more than 30 prizes and grants, including thesis prizes
(e.g., the Linnean Society Irene Manton prize, the Greenwich Forum prize and the International
Springer Thesis Award) and individual prizes (e.g., EMAS/IUMAS Young Scientist Award,
Palaeontological Association’s President’s Prize). Destinations for our students include a diverse
range of professional careers, with the majority continuing in science, across academic and non-
academic careers.

2.3 Equality and diversity

Achievements in EDI
EDI has been at the heart of the School’s priorities over the REF period, and our successes in
gender inequality have been particularly noteworthy. >40% of staff (and research postgraduates)
at all career levels identify as female. This includes 47% at professorial level (c.f. 10% in
REF2014, and against a national benchmark of 16%), with a low professorial gender pay gap
relative to the sector (6.2 cf. 8.4% in 2019). These successes were enabled by a redesign of our
policies and practices in EDI. We have created a standing EDI Committee (EDIC) which reports
directly to the Head of School and Dean and participates in School Board, ensuring equal standing
with Teaching and Research; going forward, EDIC has prioritised improving racial and ethnic
diversity in the School and wider discipline.

Many School staff have taken on EDI leadership for the broader community, for example
chairing EDI committees for EAG and the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology and serving on the
Royal Society Forums on Research Culture and Diversity in UK Polar Science Initiative committee.
Alongside gender equality, we have visibly committed to both race and LGBTQIA+ equality
charters, the latter celebrated by, for example, the @palaeoiris ‘queerlobite’ initiative started by
one of our PhD students. School-led efforts to widen BAME representation include the Black and
Green Ambassadors programme (a public engagement project co-created by the School and
Cabot Institute (under Pancost) with Ujima Radio and the Bristol Green Capital Partnership). The
Award-winning Bristol Dinosaur Project (see §4.2.3) has refocused on Widening Participation (WP)
                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
communities, via Faculty WP funding over the past four years (7800 students reached). The
School launched in 2019 a Palaeobiology internship scheme specifically for BAME students.
We recognise that Covid-19 has profound implications, especially on ECRs, those with caring
responsibilities and those from marginalised groups. We have already started documenting these
impacts, and will prioritise minimising career impacts in our future strategy.

EDI in Recruitment, Research Strategy and Policies
The University of Bristol provides and continues to improve a broad range of policies and support
to enable its diverse research staff to thrive. This includes mandatory EDI and new anti-racist
training for all staff. Representation in shortlists for School job vacancies of female and BAME
candidates has risen from 40→47% and 0→24% respectively. We now require a diversity
statement in applications, which is used in the shortlisting process. Finally, the workload model
described in §2.1 provides a transparent, effective mechanism for supporting flexible and remote
working, as well as providing parity for part-time staff. Crucially, all recruitment, workload allocation
and research support processes are monitored by the EDI committee.

Caring leave
There is a range of support for individuals returning from caring leave (REF5a); indeed, members
of the School have been instrumental in the development of these schemes. For example, two
female Professors within the School championed the University’s Returning Carers’ Scheme,
which provides funds to help re-establish a research programme after extended leave due to
caring responsibilities.

EDI and the REF
The REF submission was constructed with the primary goal of presenting research excellence
across the whole School. We contributed to the development of University’s high-level code of
conduct, and implemented it locally. This included explaining and supporting the process for
assessing independence to staff, and the School’s research committee provided a first port of call
for informal advice for ECRs. Unconscious bias training was provided to the UoA coordinator, and
this was used to design the necessary internal review and selection processes for outputs. Our list
of submitted outputs reflects the diversity of our submitted staff; for example, >40% outputs are
attributed to female authors. The administrative effort of preparing the REF submission (including
impact cases) for the individuals involved is also formally recognised in our workload model.




                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Income




Over this REF period we have won total direct research grant income of more than £44.8M (50%
above REF2014 and more than triple RAE2008); this is >£1M/FTE. We have received £3.5M of
UKRI in-kind income, double that of REF2014. We have continued investing in partnerships and
interdisciplinary collaboration in this REF period, more than doubling the total from non-UKRI or
European Commission sources compared to REF2014 (£8.8M vs £4.0M). We have pursued a
strategy of developing our talent pipeline, hosting >30 esteemed research fellowships.
Our largest funders continue to be UKRI plus the Royal Society (£23.7M), and the EU (£12.3M),
reflecting our continued commitment to fundamental research. These draw on our established
strengths in Deep Earth (e.g., NERC Programme ‘Deep Volatiles’), Palaeobiology (e.g., an ERC
Advanced grant, two NERC 'Biosphere Evolution, Transitions & Resilience' thematic programme
grants, and a NERC Large grant) and the understanding of volcanic hazard (e.g., three NERC
Large/Programme grants). Additionally, we have expanded into planetary research, resulting in our
first School-led STFC consolidated grants (2014, 2017, 2020), the CUBESAT, and UKSA Aurora
support for the NASA InSight geophysics mission to Mars; and Life Sciences research funded by
the MRC and Leverhulme with colleagues in the faculties of Health and Life Sciences.
Industrial and impact funding both enables and follows our successes in engagement. For
example, we have received more than £3M in funding from the direct partners on our impact
cases, such as BHP and EDF, and Earthquake hazard and other research has been further
enabled by more than £6M funding to the School through ODA schemes.
Fellowships hosted over the REF period include Royal Society URF and Dorothy Hodgkins, NERC
IRF, UKSA Aurora, Marie-Curie S, Leverhulme and RCE1851 schemes. We have hosted 8 Newton
Fellows from countries including China, India, Israel and Spain.

3.2 Research infrastructure and facilities

World leading research activities require high quality organisational, physical and digital
infrastructure to support it. The School has benefitted from more than £100M of investment and
commitments in the REF period, including major upgrades to our estate, technical support,
equipment and facilities.




                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


3.2.1 Estate

The largest of our estate investments is the new £63.8M Life Sciences building, enabling our
strategic aim to centre the paleobiology group in the University’s interdisciplinary Life Sciences
vision. This has enhanced and enlarged our the laboratory space and facilitated new collaborations
as well as joint (Vinther, Pisani) and coordinated (Harrison, Paps and Williams) appointments. This
new, research-facing space has enabled the development of new facilities, such as the £980k
fossil imaging suite. The Wills Memorial laboratories have also seen major investment including a
£2M refurbishment of our isotope geochemistry and experimental petrology facilities. Other space
investments have included a new geophysics computing suite, a new geophysics field equipment
facility, a programme of refurbishment of PGR offices, construction of a new Geomicrobiology Lab,
and re-investment in our Biogeochemistry Labs.

3.2.2 Laboratories and technical support

We directly manage a portfolio of more than £17M of scientific equipment and infrastructure in the
School across 14 laboratories, a rock-crushing lab and a dedicated workshop. Our in-house
laboratories are supported by 11 FTE of technical support (a >50% increase since 2014,
providing technical leads for all major laboratory spaces). This is enhanced by a new University-
level commitment to improving the career framework for all technical staff, delivered by a new
senior strategic position. Bristol was a founding signatory to the HE sector’s ‘Technician
Commitment’ in 2018. All of our laboratories have LEAF sustainability accreditation. Funding
supporting the upgrade and maintenance for our laboratories comes from research grants,
industrial partners and investment from the University.


Research infrastructure highlights during REF period
School Laboratories
   •   Petrology (high-pressure, high-temperature experimentation and sample spectroscopy) •
       New equipment including an advanced pulsed laser milling machine (£150k) • New
       technician (Goodes, appointed 2017).
   •   Geophysical Laboratory (environmental, applied and global geophysics, geodesy,
       multispectral imaging) • New equipment since 2014 includes lidar capability, electrical
       resistivity tomography, GPS receivers and additional seismic equipment (including
       picoseismic sensors for borehole imaging), totalling >£200k • £48k support for dedicated
       HPC • New technical lab manager (George, appointed 2018).
   •   Electron Microbeam Laboratories (electron imaging and X-ray microanalysis) • Central
       focus of UK training for EPMA receiving £165K from NERC and £23K from EMAS to
       support advanced training courses for post-graduates and early career researchers •
       Facility staff (Kearns, Buse) have co-authored 12 peer-reviewed papers on new
       refinements to SEM/EPMA techniques.
   •   Isotope Spectrometry (high-precision isotopic measurement) • Delivery of the Proteus
       Collision-Cell Multi-Collector ICP-MS Proteus, co-developed with Themo-Fisher (see
       below) • New state of the art clean lab (£750k).
   •   Geological Fluid Mechanics Laboratory (experimental modelling of viscous, explosive
       and granular volcanic flows) • Comprehensive refurbishment of the University’s science and
       engineering fluids labs including a £200k refit of our GFM laboratories • New multiphase
       materials characterisation capability including £58k for particle size analysis

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       instrumentation.
   •   Biogeochemistry and Geomicrobiology Laboratories (growth and characterization of
       microorganisms, water and soil analysis) • £120K of investment in the infrastructure
       allowing reorganisation for geomicrobiology • new Mossbauer spectroscopic
       instrumentation and anaerobic growth and handling facilities • Increased coordination with
       other Schools (e.g., Geography, Chemistry); these labs are now part of a University-wide
       suite of microbiological facilities.
   •   Palaeontology (molecular biology including DNA/RNA extraction, fossil X-ray tomography /
       microscopy) • New active X-ray tomography facility and imaging suite (£980k) • New
       Palaeobiology Lab Manager (Davies).
Co-maintained (with Chemistry)
   •   Organic Geochemistry (wet chemistry preparation and organic mass-spectrometry) • UK’s
       first GC-Orbitrap installed in 2018 • Inclusion as a node of the NERC National
       Environmental Isotope Facility.
   •   Bristol Radiocarbon AMS (radiocarbon determination of organics) • A newly established
       £1.9M resource specializing in methods for radiocarbon determination of gases, solid and
       dissolved organics from diverse environmental matrices. The Labs are supported by one
       manager and 3 technical staff (not included in the Earth Sciences technical staff totalled
       above).

Experimental facility support for impact activity
The following facilities have been critical to the delivery of our impact strategy, including our impact
cases:
   •   The experimental Petrology laboratories, used in partnership with BHP Billiton, were critical
       to research into porphyry copper deposits for the Copper impact case.
   •   Measurements of the effects of airborne ash on jet engines were also undertaken in the
       experimental petrology laboratories; part of the work done in partnership with Rolls-Royce
       in the Aviation impact case.
   •   Picoseismic equipment in the Geophysics Facility – acquired in partnership with KeirBAM –
       were used to make site measurements at Hinkley Point instrumental to the Microseismic
       impact case.
   •   Ground-based multispectral imaging equipment from the Geophysics Facility and InSAR
       data from multiple space agencies were used to provide monitoring in the Volcanic Risk
       impact case.

Development of novel equipment
Methodological and technological innovation has been enabled by the growth of our technical team
and a dedicated workshop (1.5 FTE). A step change for our innovation has been industry
partnership: development of next generation technology through co-operative design between
experienced instrument users and instrument manufacturers. Such a partnership was realised in
an ERC Advanced grant (Elliott) to develop a novel mass-spectrometer for the Bristol Isotope
Laboratory in collaboration with Thermo-Fisher Scientific (resulting in a joint patent). A new tri-bid
instrument – Proteus – was built by Thermo and delivered to Bristol for testing, further
development and frontier scientific research (§1.2). The next generation of this machine will be
developed over the next 5 years, again in partnership with Thermo-Fisher Scientific and funded by
a second ERC Advanced Grant to Elliott. These machines also have significant potential


                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
applications beyond the Earth Sciences, for example in medical research. Other novel equipment
includes the world’s only high temperature GC-IRMS system, developed in partnership with
ElementarUK as part of an ERC Grant, and the SEIS instrument package deployed on the surface
of Mars in 2018 by the NASA InSight mission.

3.2.3 Central University Facilities

A central tenet of Bristol’s research strategy is to amalgamate research equipment capability into
centralised facilities where possible. This has a host of advantages, including expertise and
continuity of support, quality of supporting estate and infrastructure and maximising leverage for
investment. Facilities benefitting the School include the Interface Analysis Centre, the new
Satellite Lab and Ground Station, the nascent National Soil-Foundation-Structure Interaction
(NSFSI) Laboratory and the Advanced Computing Research Centre (ACRC). Highlight
developments in this REF period include:
   •   A £12M capital investment will develop the NSFSI Laboratory to include unique
       earthquake testing equipment, with a deep test pit and large-volume data storage. This
       facility has significant potential for our work in earthquake hazard under the ‘Crustal
       Processes and Hazards’ theme.
   •   The University has invested £16M over the last decade (£10M since 2014) in high-
       performance computing and robust research data storage through the ACRC over the
       last decade with committed to investment of £2M/year for the next ten years.
   •   The GW4 in partnership with the Met. Office and ESPRC, has built Isambard – the largest
       Arm-architecture based supercomputer in Europe – which was brought online in 2018 at a
       cost of £3.0M, and a further £4.1M was awarded in 2020 to significantly increase the
       capability of this machine. Support to port research codes to the new Arm architecture has
       been provided to the School (Wookey) through ACRC.


3.2.4 Usage and Leadership of National and International Facilities

Over the REF period we have used more than 20 different national and international facilities
(including synchrotrons, analytical facilities, and research ships and bases) and we are closely
involved in developing the next generation of these facilities. For example, Hendry is the science
lead for the Net Zero Oceanographic Capability (NZOC) project, scoping future low carbon
oceanographic research capability for the UK. Other examples include developing new high-
pressure beamlines for the proposed Diamond Light Source II (Lord) and planning the design and
deployment of the UKArray seismic project (Wookey). We take leadership and advisory roles in the
facilities through membership of steering and access committees (NERC Ion Microprobe Facility,
Cashman; NERC Isotope Facility, Robinson; NERC Geophysics and Geodesy, Biggs; UK Seismic
Array, Wookey; Global Seismic Network organisation, Irving; Diamond Light Source, Buss, Lord;
ESRF, Lord; Comprehensive Institute for Geodynamics, Irving; National Oceanography Centre
Association, Marine Facilities Planning Group, NERC Cruise Programme Review Group, Hendry).

3.2.5 Organisational Infrastructure

Our research and impact activity is supported by broader University infrastructure. These include
the University Research Institutes (URIs; REF5a and §4.1). Professional services to support
research include Research and Enterprise Development (RED) and the Science Faculty

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Partnership Office. They foster strategic partnerships, including with EDF, Rothamsted Research,
ATI and the UK Met Office, providing access to new collaborations, funding and PGRs. Second,
they have won and administered innovation funds enabling the development of new technology,
collaborations and industry partnerships (§4.2), Third, they have pioneered partnership and
investment with the southwest England tech sector, initially through the award-winning ‘Bristol is
Open’ collaboration and more recently through a Research England partnership grant worth £100M
that will support the University Digital Futures vision and be vital to our Digital Environment
strategy.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships




Collaboration and partnership are integral to the success of the School. We have co-authored
papers with >1150 institutions from 90 countries, with 73% of publications including international
partners. Our broad, deep network of relationships is fostered by a wealth of schemes supporting
bilateral research visits (>200 lasting a week or longer). In total, the School has hosted more than
100 honorary staff including academic, industrial and other partners, plus short visits from notable
policy figures such as Dame Julia Slingo, Sir John Beddington and Christiana Figueres, as well as
three MPs, both of Bristol’s elected Mayors and many Councillors. We have hosted 63
Collaborative Awards in Science and engineering (CASE) funded studentships, all of whom have
spent at least 3 months working directly with their CASE partners.
Our goal to lead multidisciplinary research teams has led to collaborations with >80% of the other
Schools within the University, supported by the University Research Institutes (URIs): Cabot
(environment), Jean Golding (data), Elizabeth Blackwell (health), Brigstow (21st century living) and
Digital Futures (digital society). In particular, the School has taken on strategic leadership roles
within the Cabot Institute for the Environment, including Director (Pancost 2013-2018); Associate
Director (Biggs, 2021-2024) and Theme Leads. Seedcorn funding from the URIs, the International
Strategy Fund, Institute for Advanced Studies, GW4+ and Policy Bristol (19 in total) has incubated
challenge-led, multidisciplinary partnerships and paved the way for much larger projects.
The GCRF has been a key opportunity to develop new partnerships, and the School has taken on
leadership roles within the University Steering Group. We have received over £6M in funding to
carry out significant capacity building projects in 9 ODA countries and hosted 10 ODA-related
Fellows (incl. 8 Newton Fellows). Highlights include a new collaboration between Earth Sciences
and Civil Engineering focussed on improving resilience to earthquakes funded by GCRF-EPSRC,
and an expansion into hydro-metrological hazards in SE Asia through the NERC Shear
programme. Bristol’s role in the £19M GCRF Urban Disaster Risk Hub ‘Tomorrow’s Cities’ links the
Schools of Earth Sciences, Civil Engineering and Sociology, Politics and International Studies.
                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


4.2 Environment for engagement

The School is increasingly using our world-leading research to benefit the environment, economy
and society, hosting two major long-running platforms for industrial engagement (§4.2.1),
influencing environmental policy (§4.2.2) and emphasising widening participation and sustainability
in public engagement (§4.2.3). The School/Faculty/University has fostered these through 1)
forming an Engagement, Partnerships and Outreach Committee (EPOC), chaired by the School
Impact Director (SID); 2) appointing a School Public Engagement Officer (from professional
services) to co-ordinate outreach activities with an emphasis on widening participation; and 3)
forming the Science Faculty Partnership Office, led by a member of the School.
The School’s policy for the strategic appointment of Honorary Staff has built a thriving community
of around 100 partners, representing all career stages, from academia, government, industry and
civil society and over 20 countries. The appointment of our Aegis Professor in Sustainable
Resources (see §1.4b) is the first step towards developing an External Advisory Network. The
School’s Impact Director (Watson 2012-2016; Biggs 2016-2021) has nurtured nascent impact
activities, working with the RED Knowledge Exchange Team to develop 16 successful bids for
translation activities and impact accelerators. Impact Accelerator funding has been particularly key
for ECRs wishing to explore careers associated with the industrial application of their research.

4.2.1 Industrial engagement

The RED Partnerships Team, with the URIs, establish and oversee university-wide systems that
support the development and growth of industry partnerships; of direct relevance to the School,
this includes an umbrella agreement with BHP and multidisciplinary relationships with AWE, EDF
and Rolls Royce. UoB's burgeoning relationship with the Met Office funded 8 studentships in this
School and was formalised through competitive entry to the Met Office Academic Partnership
(MOAP) in 2020 with two members of the School joining the board. The cross-Faculty SW Nuclear
Hub acts as a focus of activity for several School research groups.
At School level, the newly formed Global Change, Natural Resources and Sustainability Research
Theme (§1.2) integrates and expands our industrial engagement, hosting two multi-phase
platforms for engagement with established industries while nurturing ‘green energy’ and ‘blue
economy’ initiatives. These collaborative hubs provide internships and studentships, attract
talented ECRs, and have leveraged over £3M in additional funding including CASE sponsorship for
6 PhD studentships. During this REF period, School staff have filed patents in economic geology
(see the Copper impact case study) and the development of novel scientific instruments (Proteus,
§3.2.2) supported by the RED Commercialisation Team and founded three SMEs: FATHOM
(Neal), Outer Limits Geophysics (Kendall, Verdon) and Seagrown (Robinson).

Hydrocarbon Industry and Regulators: The Bristol University Microseismicity Project (BUMPS)
began in 2009 with a focus on safe gas extraction and is now entering Phase 5, with a focus on
Carbon Capture and Storage and forecasting induced seismicity. More details are provided in the
Microseismic impact case study.

Sustainable Mineral Resources: The Bristol PCD partnership with the world’s largest mining
company, BHP, leverages our expertise to find the resources needed for green energy. The
partnership is now entering Phase 3 (Total > £4M) and has led to a spin-off project ‘Mine The



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Brine’ (now entering Phase 2) and NERC strategic funding (FAMOS) to engage with a consortium
of 11 mining companies. More details are provided in the Copper impact case study.

Instrument Development: The School uses its expertise in analytical innovation to develop
scientific instruments in partnership with major technology companies, including a novel mass-
spectrometer with Thermo Fischer Scientific, a high temperature GC-IRMS system with
ElementarUK, Distributed Fibre-Optic Sensing Systems with Silixa, and a Martian seismometer
with NASA (§3.2.2).

The Blue and Green Economy: Bristol researchers (Robinson) are involved in setting up the UKs
first large scale macroalgae cultivation site, SeaGrown, as the first step in developing an exciting
new marine industry for the UK (https://www.seagrown.co.uk/). Other collaborations around the
terrestrial food/soil/water system include Alltech, Wessex Water and BGS, DEFRA, Rothamsted
Research and Bristol City Council.

4.2.2 Engagement with policy makers

The research excellence of members of the School has led to their invitation to engage across a
wide range of governmental and regulatory bodies including the UN, World Bank, IPCC, European
Commission, NATO, DfID, UK Parliament, FCO and Bristol City Council. The School’s research
informs policy on environmental issues including climate, marine, polar and energy policy and
plays a critical role in supporting the city’s environmental movement. Pancost supported Bristol
City Council to become one of the first major cities in the world to declare a Climate Emergency
and adopt the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Schmidt is coordinating lead author for IPCC
AR6 and was lead author of IPCC AR5, through which she has provided advice to the UK
Parliament. Hendry shapes the UK polar and marine science strategy through various national
committees and recently co-authored an FCO-funded policy briefing on UK impacts of a changing
arctic. Bristol scientists work closely with the regulators of the UK’s nascent fracking industry (see
Microseismic impact case study) and with the Environment Agency, Natural England and Wessex
Water to meet EU Directives on Urban Waste Water Treatment, Habitats and Water.
Our research into natural hazards is used to inform and advise international policy throughout the
disaster risk reduction cycle, and Bristol scientists co-authored the UN Global Assessment of Risk
(see Volcanic Risk impact case study) and NATO guidance on safe military operations in hostile
environments (see Aviation impact case study). The FCO/FCDO has directly funded our response
to natural disasters around the world including for the 2018 eruption of Fuego, Guatemala (see
Volcanic Risk impact case study) and cyclones Idai and Kenneth (work shortlisted for the 2019
THE Research Project of the Year). Most recently, Bristol’s world-leading expertise in managing
volcanic risks has been applied to the pandemic through the NIHR-UKRI-funded COVID-19 rapid
response initiative ‘COVID-19 Mapping and Mitigation in Schools (CoMMinS)’. This work will input
into the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling, which gives expert advice to SAGE.




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


4.2.3 Public engagement




Sharing our passion, understanding and concerns for our planet is at the heart of the School’s
community and underpins our public engagement and outreach efforts. Critically, we recognise that
public engagement must centre marginalised groups, and we have re-focussed towards those. Our
staff deliver workshops in their local schools, offer public talks, are active on social media, and
advise media, policy, cultural and non-commercial organisations, and businesses. In total, we
estimate that the School has contributed to events that have attracted over half a million visitors.
Our staff assume a range of leadership roles with local organisations including Bristol Zoo and the
Green Capital Partnership, and include a year-long secondment as Senior Curator at Bristol
County Council. Beyond the city, our staff have appeared in several BBC productions, including
‘Attenborough and the Sea Dragons’ and ‘Astronauts: Do You Have What It Takes?’, Jeff Bridges’
film 'Living in the Future's Past' and long-running series including Sky at Night, BBC Breakfast,
Inside Science and News at Ten. TEDx talks by Robinson and Benton have accumulated over 1.7
million views. Benton is a leading non-fiction author with 3000-4000 copies of his palaeontology
books sold per year. We are developing our individual collaborations into sustainable partnerships
by supporting staff and students through training and remunerating contributions by students to
larger events.

4.3 Leadership in the broader research base

Invitations to fellowships of learned societies and civic prizes
   •   Sir Steve Sparks was appointed to Knight Batchelor in recognition of his career
       contributions.
   •   Five new Fellows of the Royal Society (Benton, Cashman, Donoghue, Elliott, Kendall)
       making a total of seven.
   •   National Academy of Sciences (Cashman).
   •   Academia Europeae (Gottsmann).

                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   Royal Society of London (Elliott).
   •   Royal Irish Academy (Hawkesworth).
   •   Geochemical Society and European Association of Geochemistry (Elliott, Pancost).
   •   Chinese Academy of Sciences (Distinguished Scientist, Hawkesworth).
   •   Royal Society for Chemistry (Pancost).
   •   Royal Society for Biology (Schmidt).
Prizes and medals
   •   Vetlesen Prize (Sparks), known as ‘the highest prize in Geology’.
   •   The Queen’s Anniversary prize (Volcanology Group).
   •   GeolSoc Murchison (Elliott, Blundy) and Bigsby (Rayfield) medals.
   •   AGU Norman L. Bowen Award (Elliott).
   •   EGU Jean Baptiste Lamarck (Benton) and Robert Bunsen (Hawkesworth) medals.
   •   EAG Ringwood (Blundy) and Houtermans (Hendry) medals.
   •   Pal. Assoc. President’s Medal (Donoghue, Rayfield).
   •   Zoological Society of London Scientific Medal (Rayfield).
   •   Leverhulme Trust prize (Biggs).
   •   Over a dozen more prizes and distinguished lecturer awards.


Leadership in the science community
Members of the school have served on more than 60 committees, advisory/working groups and
panels for national and international bodies. Highlights include:
   •   Funding Bodies: REF2021 UoA7 Panel (Donoghue); NERC Science Committee (Pancost)
       and nine other UKRI committees; Royal Society Council (Sparks, Hawkesworth) and eight
       other RS committees.
   •   Local, National and Overseas Governments: Beyond our strong civic engagement
       members of the School are called on to provide expert advice to governmental bodies.
       Examples at national level include Sparks’ membership of Science Advisory Group for
       Emergencies (SAGE) and the Montserrat FCO Scientific Advisory Committee, and the
       independent review of the National Geological Screening (tasked with identifying sites for
       the geological disposal of nuclear waste) was chaired by Hawkesworth. Overseas
       examples include INSIVUMEH the Guatemala Scientific advisory group (Watson) and the
       Worksafe New Zealand panel into the White Island Volcanic disaster (Sparks).
   •   Professional bodies and other organisations: President and Vice-President of the
       Society of Vertebrate Palaeontology (Rayfield), Vice President of the Palaeontological
       Association (Rayfield), Board of directors and Council Leadership Team of the American
       Geophysical Union (Riker) and steering committees, working groups and prize panels for
       30 more such organisations including professional bodies (e.g., International Science
       Council, EAGE, MinSoc, Leverhulme Trust), research institutes (e.g., Royal Netherlands
       Institute for Sea Research, Southern Californian Research Centre) and museums (e.g.,
       NHM; Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris; Humboldt Museum of Natural History,
       Berlin).

Funding body decision panels
Members of the School have served on panels for more than 20 different funding bodies in the UK
and overseas, including for UKRI (NERC, STFC, UKSA), the Royal Society (e.g., UR and DH
Fellowships, Grants), ERC (Starting (Chair), Consolidator and Advanced grants panels),

                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Leverhulme, Royal Astronomical Society, GeolSoc, ESA, NASA, NATO, DFG and the US National
Academy and NSF. Members of the school review grants across an even broader range of bodies.

Editorship of major international journals
Members of the School have served as chief editor for four journals (EPSL, JVGR, Physics and
Chemistry of the Earth and Elements) and on the editorial board of >45 other journals as well as
regularly reviewing across an even broader range of publications.

Organisation and participation in major conferences
Members of the School have organised or session-chaired more than 200 conferences and
workshops, and given more than 400 keynote talks or invited lectures.




                                                                                          Page 25
