Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

 Unit of Assessment: 24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and strategic aims of REF period

 In REF2014, the School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (SSHES) and the School of
 Sport at Cardiff Metropolitan University (CMU) entered a combined submission under the
 auspices of the joint Institute for Research Excellence in Sport and Exercise (IRESE). That
 submission was a formal recognition of 20 years of research collaboration between the two
 schools. While collaboration has continued to thrive (see below), we prefer this time to submit
 Bangor and SSHES’s research and impact contribution in its own right, as part of REF2021. This
 decision is grounded in the changing research and funding environment, natural staff turnover,
 and a refocused strategy for research and impact. Coordinated planning of research,
 investment, and activity, as well as careful succession planning in terms of group leadership and
 administrative roles, has allowed us to sustain and substantially expand our research
 contribution by increasing outputs and grant capture, the number of PhD student completions,
 and enhancing our engagement with external partners to produce impactful research.

 SSHES structures and achievements
 Research and impact activity within SSHES during the REF period has been shaped by its three
 constituent research groups – each steered by a senior academic. (All funding figures quoted
 throughout reflect funded award values to Bangor unless explicitly stated as spend.)

    The Institute for the Psychology of Elite Performance (IPEP; Woodman) has been
     concerned with developing and applying psychological principles to high-demand contexts of
     sports, military and business. To this end, IPEP has focused on the interactions between
     individuals and situations using psychometric and psychophysiological perspectives to
     generate high-quality multi-perspective data to inform researchers and external partners.
     IPEP has been successful in capturing research grants (worth GBP1,270,000 over this REF
     period) across a variety of funders including the Ministry of Defence (e.g., RAF Cranwell pilot
     training) and national sport organisations (e.g., England and Wales Cricket Board,
     Manchester City FC, Mountain training UK, Rugby Football Union, UK Sport). IPEP’s
     programmes of individualised interdisciplinary resilience training that were used with the
     Lions and then England Men’s International Cricket Teams in preparation for their winning
     2019 World Cup campaign are particularly noteworthy.

    The Extremes Research Group (ERG; Walsh, now Oliver) prioritises the multi-disciplinary
     understanding of human performance and health in extreme environments. This group has
     led on considerable grant capture from the Ministry of Defence (GBP1,315,000) as well as
     with other external agencies (Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, GBP296,000
     European Hydration Institute, GBP275,000). The ERG has co-authored recent international
     consensus statements on nutrition and exercise (for the International Olympic Committee)
     and altitude illness. Underpinning such activity, ERG members have been integral to three
     international research expeditions (MEDEX 2015, Macdonald, Oliver; Global REACH 2016,
     Moore; Global REACH 2018, Moore, Oliver), enabling international multidisciplinary
     research teams to complete research at the highest altitude laboratories in the world.
     Illustrating further impact, the group’s hot bath acclimatisation strategy has been adopted by
     several elite sports, including Sport Wales athletes for the 2018 Commonwealth Games.

    The Physical Activity for Health and Well Being Centre (PAWB; Lemmey, now Kubis) has
     been concerned with exercise and nutrition factors in physical health and mental wellbeing
     across the lifespan. Their research is now housed in a newly refurbished Centre following a
     University investment of GBP1,033,000 to support the School’s ambitions and build on
     PAWB’s capacity in exercise prescription for chronic disease. Examples include the

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    generation of exercise guidelines and resources for Rheumatology (produced for the
    American College of Sports Medicine) and for Nephrology (produced for the Renal
    Association) that have been implemented worldwide. Further strong collaborations involve
    other schools in the College of Human Sciences (e.g. the Schools of Psychology and Health
    Sciences) and HEIs (e.g., Liverpool University, Kings College London).

 These three research groups have produced year-on-year increases in citation counts. Since
 REF2014: staff outputs have been cited in the literature more than 45,000 times (Google
 Scholar) and we have increased our combined research spend by 95% from GBP1,767,710 to
 GBP3,438,688. This includes GBP1,925,078 from industry sources for applied research and
 knowledge-exchange activities. PhD completions have more than doubled (26 to 56) and our
 contribution to the leadership of the discipline (in journal editorial positions) and invited
 conference presentations has increased by 67% (6 to 10 staff) and from 2 to 10 staff,
 respectively.

 Continued collaboration with CMU and other partners has fostered expanded pan-Wales
 research across sports sciences institutes and offered leadership opportunities. Bangor leads
 the ESRC Doctoral Training Pathway (with CMU and Swansea University) in the social science
 of sports and exercise; one of only two training programmes in the UK. As part of this, we have
 established a pan-Wales annual PGR conference open to both ESRC and non-ESRC-funded
 doctoral students, attracting over 200 PGRs across institutions. To date, the pathway has
 awarded 13 studentships with Bangor and CMU securing 10 of these (five each). We have
 collaborated with CMU staff effectively on another six externally funded projects, influencing the
 practice of national and international sports organisations (e.g., UK Sport, British Triathlon).
 Indeed, with nine cross-institutional PhD student supervisions, this collaborative arrangement
 has now expanded beyond the psychology discipline into physiology, yielding 20 co-authored
 publications. CMU are also a partner in one of our impact case studies.

 SSHES’ and CMU’s shared commitment to a joint funding and supervision PhD model has
 resulted in the production of several strong research projects and papers (e.g., Moore’s high
 altitude physiology Global REACH expedition involving researchers from three continents). A
 third joint PhD studentship has been funded by Bangor to extend this effective collaboration into
 the next REF cycle. Bangor also co-founded (along with Sport Wales, Swansea University, and
 the University of South Wales) the Welsh Institute for Performance Science using funding from
 Welsh Government. Through the Welsh Institute for Performance Science, Beattie, Blanchfield,
 Gottwald, Oliver work with CMU and other Welsh academics to support Sport Wales in their
 preparation of Commonwealth Games teams and the development of industry-led research.
 Another pan-Wales collaboration is the recently established Welsh Institute of Physical Activity,
 Health and Sport, involving Macdonald and CMU staff, again coordinated by Sport Wales and
 funded by the Welsh Government. Welsh Institute of Physical Activity, Health and Sport brings
 together Welsh academics to inform and influence government policy to enhance physical
 activity and the health of the Welsh population.

 Finally, the two impact case studies in this REF submission illustrate the contribution made by
 SSHES outside academia and describe resultant benefits to practice in elite sport and military
 organisations. Both are based on productive relationships with external partners, fostered over
 extended periods of time enabling the development of mutual respect and trust. Since our
 projects continue to meet the needs of our partners, our research activity attracts sustained
 funding. The first case study is based on UK Sport-funded research begun in 2009 by Hardy L
 that has changed and improved talent identification and development in elite cricket, rugby, and
 athletics. The second impact case study is based on a series of dietary investigations, funded by
 the Ministry of Defence and led by Walsh and Oliver, that have mitigated the negative effects of
 nutritional deficits on soldier body composition, immune health, and physical performance.

 Future strategic aims
 SSHES will continue to play a key role in the development of sports science across Wales,
 innovating and producing high-quality research across the disciplines. The School will build on

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 its research strengths: mental resilience; risk-taking; elite performance and talent development;
 human performance and health in extreme environments; dietary behaviour and metabolism;
 and exercise and vascular health. We will build on strong and well-established links with the
 Ministry of Defence, UK Sport, the English Institute of Sport, the England and Wales Cricket
 Board, Sport Wales, and the NHS. However, the School’s objective is now to extend the scale
 and reach of its research. To achieve this, SSHES staff have co-produced a strategy with four
 elements: (a) to support a culture that values interdisciplinary collaboration and enables world-
 leading research, innovation, and enterprise to flourish; (b) to develop and maximise our
 research talent as the next generation of “world leaders”, promoting rigorous science challenges
 the status quo; (c) to increase visibility and impact of our research beyond academia by fostering
 partnerships with business and enterprise, and; (d) to continue to support a vibrant and cohesive
 postgraduate research body valuing their contribution.

 To implement this strategy, the Institute for the Psychology of Elite Performance will continue
 under new leadership (Cooke, mentored by Woodman). However, we plan to consolidate our
 physiology researchers from the Extremes Research Group and Physical Activity for Health and
 Well Being (PAWB) Centre into a single group, as the Institute for Applied Human Physiology, to
 be led by Oliver (and mentored by Professor Downing; Associate Pro-VC). This consolidation
 will expand research mentorship, facilitate multi-disciplinary collaboration across the SSHES and
 college, and will clarify our areas of expertise to external partners.

 So, we will build on the following practices:

 1. Strategic appointments. Careful recruitment will increase capacity in areas of strategic
 importance and facilitate intra- and inter-research group projects, and collaborations with other
 universities. To take one example, Gallichio (appointed 2020) has enhanced our capabilities in
 psychophysiology and applied cognitive neuroscience, allowing us to link up with other
 researchers in the schools of Health Sciences and Psychology to answer key questions in
 sporting and health domains.

 2. Strengthening cross-institution partnerships. We have funded twelve research visits to
 world-leading laboratories (e.g., the Australian Institute for Sport; Ainslie’s lab in the University of
 British Columbia, Canada; Gucciardi’s lab in Curtin University, Australia; Masters’ lab in Waikato
 University, New Zealand) during this REF period and are committed to supporting this activity
 during the next cycle. Given the success of our joint PhD studentships with CMU, we will expand
 our joint supervision model and engage other universities to enable the exchange of cutting-
 edge methodologies that can be shared across the School’s research groups.

 3. Promotion of impact, innovation, and engagement. We maintain an innovation budget of
 GBP25,000 to support SSHES staff (and postgraduate researchers) to develop their impact and
 engagement activities. We have and will prioritise further post-acceptance activities to better
 publicise outputs and make findings from our papers available to relevant stakeholders (e.g.,
 using layperson summaries, infographics, and executive briefings).

 4. Expanded knowledge-exchange activities to develop commercial and industry
 partnerships. We have been very successful in securing funding that incorporates bespoke
 training opportunities (e.g., entrepreneurial skills) and covering associated training costs. Most of
 this external funding has been for collaborative knowledge-exchange PGR projects with industry
 via the EU social fund. Our next step is to develop impactful post-Brexit industrial partnerships.
 To this end, the School is contributing to the university’s programme, with Betsi Cadwaladr
 University Health Board (BCUHB), to develop a new North Wales Medical and Health Sciences
 School. We also contribute to the current C21 North Wales Medicine degree by supervising
 projects for Student Selected Components. Moreover, the new Institute for Applied Human
 Physiology will drive impactful collaboration with other schools in the college, linking in with the
 Bangor Institute for Health and Medical Research (BIHMR) and the UKCRC-registered clinical
 trials unit, NWORTH. These partnerships will forge ever closer research and training links with
 the NHS and clinical partners and extend our interdisciplinary reach, for example, the recently

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awarded ESRC DTP studentship with Manchester City FC incorporating health economics
 through Bangor University’s Schools of Health and Medical Sciences).

 Underpinning philosophical approach to research and impact excellence
 Two important outward-facing principles - collaboration/partnership and communication/
 dissemination – underscore our research impacts.

 Collaboration, partnership and dissemination
 Funders now encourage researchers to consider impact in the formulation of projects and not
 just at the dissemination stage. This means involving research users in the development of the
 research questions and decisions about the most appropriate research methods. Our enduring
 partnerships with the English Cricket Board (ECB), UK Sport, the Ministry of Defence
 demonstrate that we already follow this practice. Our research developed the model of equal
 expertise concept (Hardy L & Parfitt, 1994) that has shaped how applied sport psychology
 practitioners engage with their clients. This is now the reality of our approach, enabling us to
 gain a thorough understanding of outside parties’ requirements, how best to fulfil them, and how
 to leave a legacy within the organisation after the research project has been completed. Our
 effectiveness at fostering strong collaborative relationships is illustrated by successful income
 capture over extended periods across our staff. For example, the latest PhD studentship led by
 Woodman is the fifth funded by the ECB spanning a 12-year period, enduring across three
 different ECB Heads of Science and Medicine. Similarly, an initial collaboration with Kings
 College London, begun in 2008, has endured and expanded into relationships with the Wales
 Kidney Research Unit and the UK Kidney Research Council Health and Wellbeing Clinical
 Speciality Group now chaired by Macdonald. These contributions have generated project grants
 and fellowships funded by the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR).

 Enduring and productive partnerships with external collaborative partners are guided by the core
 value of providing evidence-based solution-oriented research to organisations linked to sport
 and health, government agencies, charities, the private sector, as well as to the general public.
 To achieve this, we engage key stakeholders in a range of activities including dialogue, policy
 reports, relationship building, presentations, and other report formats. Staff within the School
 have also received specific media and impact training to better steer their interactions and have
 been in demand by various outlets (e.g., BBC, Sky Sports, UK and Welsh Government).


 Research integrity, data management and open access

 Bangor University complies with Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and
 has established structures to support effective research governance and ethics. Research ethics
 training is provided and supported by University courses but developed further in both our PGR
 and staff training processes. SSHES’s research portfolio involves volunteer participants recruited
 from sports populations (amateur and professional), local student and community populations,
 and the military services; as well as patients recruited through NHS clinical services. Consistent
 with best practice, we seek to protect both participants and researchers by mitigating the risks of
 harm appropriately while continuously enhancing and monitoring ethical and scientific quality.
 The SSHES Ethics and Governance Committee reports to the University Ethics Committee, and
 evaluates researchers’ protocols against relevant frameworks as set out by the BPS, NHS,
 Ministry of Defence, UKRI and EU funders, and all relevant legislation (e.g., data protection). We
 encourage preregistration of study protocols and the use of public repositories for data sharing
 (e.g., using US National Library of Medicine, As Predicted and the Open Science Framework).
 All clinical trials are preregistered and published in journals that expect preregistration. We
 promote the prompt publication of research findings (as papers and conference seminars).
 Publication is undertaken in line with the University Open Access Policy.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and development

 Strategy
 The commitment of SSHES to supporting research excellence through appropriate high-quality
 staffing is evidenced through: (i) the planned appointment of, and investment, in early-career
 researchers who show exceptional potential (Blanchfield, Gallichio, Jones, Mee, Sandoo); (ii)
 prompt promotion of future research leaders to Senior Lecturer (Beattie, Lawrence, Oliver,
 Roberts, Sandoo); (iii) promotion to Reader (Oliver) and Professor (Callow) for senior staff
 who have developed their research leadership; and (iv), where appropriate, retention of eminent
 researchers as Emeritus Professors (Hardy L). When appointing new members of staff, we take
 particular care to consider how candidates will complement and add value to intra- and inter-
 group collaborations. Thanks to our recruitment strategy, we have sustained a dynamic
 research-focused School: the mean age of staff is <43 years old, with only one researcher who
 will reach retirement age before the next REF2028 exercise.

 Succession planning
 We take succession planning and the continuity of our research groups seriously. We have an
 established tradition whereby senior researchers provide mentorship and guidance to colleagues
 to foster continued effective leadership and planning. In several instances, this allowed smooth
 and effective transitions with changes of role or departures (e.g. Hardy L, Walsh). As a result,
 some of our staff have taken on major academic leadership roles (e.g., Macdonald as Head of
 School; Callow as Pro-Vice Chancellor). Furthermore, we seek to emphasise the development
 of research leadership by encouraging junior and senior principal investigators to co-lead our
 collaborative projects with industry (e.g., English and Wales Cricket Board, Ministry of Defence,
 Rugby Football Union, Sport Wales, UK Sport), facilitating strong mentorship on strategic and
 day-to-day issues involving both internal and external personnel.

 Developmental support
 Staff development is supported by specialised seminar series (within each research group and
 across SSHES as a whole) involving external and internal speakers. This includes research
 assistant and PGR presentations, regular journal clubs, and monthly research group meetings
 that focus on project proposals, grant activity, and impact. All staff can participate in a School
 and/or a University mentoring system that provides individualised, ongoing support and
 guidance provided by another senior colleague (e.g., Professor/Research Group Lead).

 As part of the University’s annual professional development review scheme, all staff engage in
 the setting of research-related targets aligned to SHES strategic goals that are agreed upon and
 evaluated. Bangor University’s study leave programme provides opportunities to develop
 research projects, with 14 periods of six-month research study leave having been awarded in
 this REF period. Also, we promote “mini sabbaticals”, typically lasting 4–6 weeks, that enable
 staff to consolidate research progress at particular times in project cycles. New and early career
 academic staff are provided with additional support (named teaching and research mentors),
 reduced teaching and administration loads (for two semesters), and priority for School-funded
 PhD studentships (i.e., 11 awarded in REF period). Funding opportunities for staff development
 in impact have included our school Innovation Fund as well as the University’s ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Award fund. These have been used to facilitate knowledge-exchange activities
 focusing on talent identification and development (e.g., England and Wales Cricket Board,
 Weightlifting Wales), preparation for Major Games (e.g., Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth
 Games; Sport Wales), and safer driving behaviour (Imagitech Ltd). Finally, all staff and research
 students are funded to attend and present their work at international conferences.

 The School engages in annual internal assessments of outputs to provide developmental
 feedback. Funding applications are reviewed through an internal peer-review process, providing
 feedback to strengthen proposals before submission. Further support in the form of continuing
 professional development is provided to research staff through in-house programmes of

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities. For example, biannual research away days have focused on rolling REF reviews,
 research ethics, and governance as well as dissemination of multi-level and pattern recognition
 analysis procedures; programming in R; cardiovascular ultrasound training; MRI and brain blood
 flow analysis. Lastly, value is added to the School’s research environment through the support
 for visiting researchers to SSHES (approx. one per year) and the inclusion of honorary research
 positions enabling the maintenance and expansion of our research expertise.

 Support and promotion of equality and diversity
 SSHES is committed to all aspects of equality, diversity, and social inclusion as embedded in the
 mission statement of Bangor University. This commitment is aligned with pursuing Athena
 SWAN charter principles. SSHES was the first in Bangor University to be awarded specific
 recognition. For six out of the seven years of the REF cycle, we have operated with Bronze
 Award status and offered mentorship to other Bangor University Schools for their own successful
 award applications. Currently, 42% (n = 20) of our PGRs are women and 42% of staff
 appointments within the school were female during this REF cycle. These appointments speak
 directly to the School’s commitment to equality and diversity (e.g., Jones, Sandoo); as does our
 co-funding of a collaborative ESRC PhD with UK Deaf Athletics. Senior management roles
 within the School/College held by our female researchers (Callow, Gottwald) provide strong
 role models for others. Furthermore, Woodman, and more recently Jones, sit on the University
 level Athena SWAN working group and two SSHES students have received Women in Science
 scholarships awards (in 2016 and 2017).

 Other school-specific steps that support our commitment and promotion of equality and diversity
 include the appointment of a male Champion for Change; ensuring, as far as possible, gender
 balance in staff recruitment and appointment process; increased involvement and visibility of
 female and other under-represented groups at School Open Days; sensitive PGR allocation to
 offices, particularly relevant for International PhD researchers; meetings and seminars
 scheduled within core business hours (10:00-16:00); a multi-faith reflection/prayer room; breast
 feeding and unisex nappy changing facilities; personal professional development accounts for all
 staff; Welsh translation services for the School research seminar series; the availability of
 financial support to facilitate external female, LGBT, and BAME researchers to present in the
 School research seminar series; and the joint use of laboratory equipment by BSc, MSc project
 and PGR students and staff colleagues. Evidence of progress is indicated by Sandoo who has
 been promoted to Senior Lecturer and Callow who has been promoted to Senior Lecturer and
 Professor (Dean and then Pro-VC). All of our PGR prizes for excellence in this cycle have been
 awarded to female students.

 Postgraduate researchers
 That the Director of PGR Studies is a permanent member of the School’s Strategic Management
 Group speaks directly to the commitment of the School to its PGRs. We have a vibrant body of
 enthusiastic aspiring researchers from domestic, EU and non-EU international backgrounds,
 working part- and full-time, in laboratory and field based, and in basic and applied science.
 Students are self-funded, internally-funded (SSHES) or externally-funded. The headcounts of
 PGR students (including MRes) for the years 2014/15 to 2019/2020 show growth from 31 to 47.
 The number of doctoral degrees awarded has increased by 115% to 56 in this cycle compared
 with 26 REF2014 and is 3.29 per staff head count (and 3.33 per staff FTE).

 The School maintains the baseline number of PGRs by school-funding at least two PhD
 studentships per year in addition to match-funding externally funded students and attracting
 external funding for PGRs. This commitment extends to match-funding for all UKRI/ESRC DTP
 PhD studentships. Consequently, we have invested nearly GBP1,887,090 over this REF cycle to
 support PGR activities. SSHES leads the ESRC – Doctoral Training Pathway for Sport and
 Exercise Sciences, involving CMU and Swansea University, and has established the annual
 pan-Wales PGR conference for Sport and Exercise Sciences. Our students are also well-
 represented in the College of Human Sciences PGR multi-disciplinary conferences. Such
 initiatives afford our PGRs excellent learning opportunities to interact with researchers from
 other Universities and Schools. Importantly, the School’s PGRs appreciate such initiatives; “The

                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pan-Wales Sport Science Conference is an excellent way to develop and network. Similarly, the
 annual conference travel budget given by the department is essential.” (PRES, 2018).

 Formal interactions between PGRs and established researchers within SSHES are fostered by
 the activities outlined in the staff section above (e.g., research group seminars and meetings to
 discuss research proposals, grant activity, impact) but also SHES PGR Away Days. Staff who
 embark on research degree supervision for the first time complete an induction programme
 before joining supervisory teams. In close alignment with established good practice across the
 sector, and compliant with the QAA Code of Practice, they join supervisory teams with at least
 one other experienced supervisor to maximise mentorship opportunities. At present, all staff
 members are engaged in PGR supervision and all supervise on externally funded studentships.
 PGR supervisory teams include two supervisors (with relevant research interests), reinforcing
 the collaborative research culture within SSHES and enhancing the training experience.

 The success of our approach is perhaps best illustrated by the supervisory arrangements utilised
 on the UK Sport-funded Pathway-to-Podium project, a prospective multidisciplinary follow-up to
 the Great British Medallists Project; one of our Impact Case Studies. In this project, three PGRs
 working within five Olympic sports measure psychosocial variables, practice and training
 behaviour, and the health of athletes on talent development programmes. In addition to regular
 supervisory tutorials, the PGRs have weekly meetings with their Bangor supervisors, the co-PIs,
 and their more applied English Institute of Sport supervisors. This type of supervisory integration
 is mirrored by two further PhD projects funded by Manchester City FC, and the NHS in which
 SSHES PGRs operate to translate empirical research into practical solutions for external
 partners. PGRs have been integral to the production of 98 peer reviewed papers in the current
 REF cycle, and more than 70% of the outputs submitted for REF2021 were co-authored by
 PGRs. These outcomes provide excellent training in research methods and data analysis and
 make a very meaningful contribution to the vibrancy of our environment.

 The recruitment of postgraduate researchers to SSHES has been supported by a portfolio of
 funding arrangements. In this REF cycle, 20% of PGR students are funded through external,
 industry-based partnerships. Five PGRs have been supported through ESRC funding and 13
 postgraduate researchers have been funded by the European Union through Knowledge
 Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS). External funding for PGRs from another 13 sources that
 include UK Sport, England and Wales Cricket Board, Rugby Football Union, Global City Football
 Group (Manchester City FC’s ownership group), the UK’s Ministry of Defence, Defence Science
 and Technology Laboratory, and the National Health Service, the national governments of
 Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Iran, and United Arab Emirates, and Blue Sky charity. Self-funded PGRs
 have also been recruited internationally from China, Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Malta,
 Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and Switzerland.

 Just like school staff, all PGR students receive an annual personal budget to fund specific
 research training opportunities and to present their research at national and international
 conferences. To help further their research training and prepare our PGRs for these
 conferences, they present at the College of Human Sciences’ (Bangor University) annual PGR
 conference as well as at the Sports Science Pan-Wales PGR conference. Early career
 researcher conference awards have been won at European Federation of Sport Psychology,
 2019; Hypoxia, 2017; Experimental Biology, 2019; Physiological Society, 2019.

 Finally, the School attracts PGRs worldwide. For example, during this REF period, PGRs based
 in Brazil, Canada, New Zealand, Holland, Italy, and Austria arranged extended visits to SSHES
 for upskilling. Further evidence of the high-quality research training is demonstrated by the
 British Psychological Society awards for best PhD thesis from the British Psychological Society
 in 2019 and best PGR student across Bangor University from Draper’s Company in 2018. Our
 PGRs are in demand and have gone on to work in other academic institutes in the UK and
 worldwide, the public sector and the NHS, as well as in high-profile industry organisations such
 as the NFL’s Cleveland Browns, England and Wales Cricket Board, English Institute of Sport,


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Danone Nutrition, Football Association, GB Hockey, Manchester City Football Group, Mapei,
 Middlesbrough Football Club, Phillips, Rugby Football Union, and UK Sport.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Spend has increased markedly since REF2014; by 95% from GBP1,767,710 to GBP3,438,688.
 Breaking this down across sources illustrates the importance of end-users in our research, with
 spend from UK industry, commerce and public corporations increasing very substantially from
 GBP133,573 to GBP1,925,079. We have also succeeded in accessing EU government sources
 with an increased spend from GBP209,037 for REF2014 to GBP498,643 for REF2021. A
 hallmark of our research activities is repeat funding, highlighting external partners’ satisfaction
 with the work produced. This is true across all three research groups in the School. For example,
 as we describe below, IPEP group’s continual and productive relationship with the England and
 Wales Cricket Board for more than 12 years.

 Major grant awards
 The PAWB group has completed health-oriented projects addressing chronic conditions across
 the lifespan. Macdonald has led our work to innovate and then evaluate the benefits of physical
 activity and quality of life in patients living with kidney disease. This has included participation in
 two large multi-centre trials: The National Institute for Social Care and Health Research-funded
 PEDAL trial (led by King’s College London and including collaborators from Queen Margaret,
 Edinburgh and Leicester Universities) and the BISTRO Trial (led by Keele University with
 Birmingham and Salford Universities) (value to Bangor of GBP170,000). Both projects have
 been supported locally by awards from the Betsi Cadwaladar University Health Board (BCUHB)
 and Welsh charity-funding (Blue Sky/Awyr Las; GBP58,000). The PAWB group has secured
 funding for research in blood vessel function in rheumatoid arthritis (value of GBP68,000;
 Sandoo, Moore) and in breast cancer (Tenovus; GBP13,000; Sandoo); and physical activity in
 babies and toddlers (Healthy and Active Wales Fund/Babi Actif; GBP25,000; Macdonald).

 Oliver and Walsh have continued a Bangor-led and Ministry of Defence-funded investigation
 (with the Universities of East Anglia and Manchester) into the benefits of Vitamin D
 supplementation for health and performance in military personnel, securing further a
 GBP322,000 to Bangor in 2015 (on top of an original award of GBP994,000 in late 2013). Walsh
 has investigated the effectiveness of the “hot bath” acclimatisation strategy; initially with athletes
 and then extended to military personnel (Ministry of Defence; GBP201,000). This innovative and
 low-cost approach of acclimatisation was used to help prepare Welsh athletes for the Gold
 Coast Commonwealth Games and was used by the Union Argentina de Rugby, Scottish Rugby,
 and Welsh Rugby Union in preparation for the 2019 Rugby World Cup, as well as by GB Modern
 Pentathlon. Oliver and Walsh have also been part of a multi-centre study with Loughborough
 and Stirling universities that developed a novel index of the hydrating qualities of different drinks
 (value to Bangor of GBP64,000 out of GBP275,000 from the European Hydration Institute). This
 project offers another physiology-specific illustration of our approach to partnership and
 dissemination as this project was a development of an earlier piece of hydration-related
 research, originally funded by European Hydration Institute and Hydra DX to Oliver, Owen, and
 Walsh. This strand of research continues now under the leadership of Oliver.

 The Pathway-to-Podium project (Lawrence, Woodman, Hardy L, Hardy J, Gottwald, Roberts,
 Oliver) is an interdisciplinary ESRC-UK Sport collaboration (GBP235,000) and is a prospective
 continuation of the highly influential UK Sport funded “Great British Medallists Project” completed
 in 2013 and led by Bangor. This project addresses the interactions between personal, coach,
 and pathway factors that impact on athlete progress and well-being. The current phase of the
 project involves six staff from the School’s Institute for the Psychology of Elite Performance and
 Extremes Research Groups, three full-time PhD researchers, two English Institute of Sport staff
 members, and five National Governing Bodies. IPEP’s research expertise in talent development
 has also produced funded studentships in rugby (GBP106,000; Rugby Union Football; Roberts,
 Hardy L), weightlifting (Weightlifting Wales/KESS; spending GBP61,000; Gottwald, Lawrence),
 and in football (GBP214,000; Global City Football Services (owners of Manchester City Football

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Club; Callow, Hardy J) over seven years involving Manchester City and Melbourne City
 (Australia) academies. Finally, Hardy J, Lawrence, Roberts and Woodman have successfully
 sustained the partnership developed by Hardy L with the England and Wales Cricket Board
 funding (GBP124,216) to fund five studentships on team effectiveness (e.g., BPS awarded best
 PhD thesis of the year 2019) and talent development. This programme has produced “spin-off”
 bespoke projects at professional county and senior national levels with interdisciplinary post-doc
 support. Other elite sports interdisciplinary projects include an English Institute of Sport-
 commissioned psychophysiological investigation of elite coaches’ experiences and reactions to
 the stress of major tournaments (GBP60,000; Blanchfield, Cooke, Woodman, Hardy L).

 Complementing the interdisciplinary research in elite sport produced by our researchers is the
 health-oriented research in neurofeedback and Parkinson’s disease (value of GBP57,000, 2015;
 Cooke funded by BCHUB) and physical literacy (GBP55,000; Sport Wales; Gottwald,
 Macdonald). Moreover, in 2017, IPEP secured funding for a two-year post-doc from AXA
 insurance (GBP104,000; Cooke, Woodman) to develop a novel eye-gaze perceptual training
 strategy for reducing the risk associated with road accidents due to driver error. Utilising a
 rigorous interdisciplinary approach, it then assessed the effectiveness of this training. Finally, a
 newly funded PhD studentship from Bangor University’s Great Heritage Fund (GBP44,000;
 Macdonald, Oliver) has facilitated interdisciplinary collaboration between the School of
 Psychology and our Extremes Research Group, through the integrated use of our altitude
 environment chamber and the School of Psychology’s MR scanner.

 Infrastructure
 SSHES researchers can bid internally from a budget of GBP25,000 per annum to support
 staffing, equipment, and consumables. This has also enabled the recruitment of two part-time
 Research Officers. SSHES is committed to the strategic support of its staff via internally funded
 PhD studentships, which have totalled GBP887,000 over the REF cycle.

 Three overarching structures aid the School’s research impact and engagement with industry.
 SSHES, Swansea University and the University of South Wales cofounded The Welsh Institute
 of Performance Science in 2015 (with Welsh Government and Sport Wales funding) to facilitate
 research and impact relevant to Welsh elite sport in preparation for Wales’ historically most
 successful 2018 Commonwealth Games and beyond. SSHES researchers have used KESS
 PhD and MRES studentships to develop 10 knowledge-exchange partnership research projects
 with 8 different local and national company partners (Rygbi Gogledd Cymru, Mountain Training
 UK, Outlook Expeditions, Outdoor Partnership, Surf Snowdonia, Ynys Mon Island Games
 Association, Youth Justice Service, Welsh Weightlifting, GBP349,000). Further, the School’s
 work with the ESRC Doctoral Training Programme (5 PhD studentships GBP193,000). Finally,
 we have funded impact-related activity from the ESRC Impact Acceleration Award to foster
 collaboration with Sport Wales, UK Sport,NHS, and new industrial partners in Imagitech LTD
 and NRS Healthcare (GBP78,000).

 Facilities
 Coordination with other Schools within the College of Human Sciences has enabled us to utilise
 facilities not otherwise available to our researchers. Examples of this infrastructure include a
 Faraday cage, and a functional magnetic resonance imaging unit containing a recently replaced
 research-dedicated Philips 3T Achieva MR scanner (Oliver, Macdonald), MRI compatible EEG,
 transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), stimulus presentation systems, and eye-tracking
 systems (Cooke, Gottwald, Hardy J, Lawrence, Woodman); all exclusively protected for
 research purposes. Since 2014, the university has invested more than GBP1,304,000 to
 maintain and enhance SSHES infrastructure, facilities, and research-related equipment. These
 now include five exercise physiology laboratories; two environmental chambers (one with
 altitude capabilities); a dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry laboratory and an underwater weighing
 laboratory for body composition assessments; a cell biology laboratory; a biochemistry
 laboratory; a 12-camera motion analysis laboratory; four motor control and learning laboratories;
 a psychophysiology and electrocardiography suite; a social psychology laboratory and interview
 suite; and a “live-in” laboratory with a kitchen and space for six beds. Unusually for the sector

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 perhaps, our physiology and psychology research activities are each supported by a dedicated
 and highly effective technician with skill sets originating in sports science and electrical
 engineering to create bespoke high-tech equipment and information technology. Between them,
 they have >40 years of experience helping to meet the Schools’ research technical challenges.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collectively, SSHES staff members make a major contribution to the discipline. For example, the
 previously described externally funded physiology projects have all required staff to cultivate
 strong working relationships with other research institutes. This is mirrored by the School’s
 psychologists’ highly effective partnerships with research end-users in elite sport (e.g., England
 and Wales Cricket Board, English Institute of Sport, Global City Football Services, Rugby
 Football Union, UK Sport). The Welsh Institute of Performance Science, the EU-funded
 Knowledge-exchange Studentship Scheme, and ESRC Impact Acceleration Award structures
 and funding have all facilitated research collaboration outside of academia.

 Research collaborations
 Formal external collaborations have been created with universities in the UK and internationally.
 For instance, 9 staff members (54% of current staff) have been Visiting Professors abroad at
 universities in Australia (Curtin, Beattie), Austria (Innsbruck, Oliver, Moore), Canada (Toronto,
 Macdonald; UBC, Oliver and Western, Roberts, Callow), Malaysia (University of Malaysia,
 Callow), New Zealand (Waikato, Cooke), Peru (Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia,
 Moore), as well as the USA (Texas, Moore and Connecticut, Walsh). Moreover, international
 researchers from Austria, Canada, China, New Zealand, Peru, and Saudi Arabia have had
 extended study periods in the School. In addition to the previously identified research
 collaborations, SSHES staff members conduct research with colleagues who are members of
 internationally excellent research groups at Birmingham; Leicester, Exeter; Loughborough;
 Southampton; University College London; Nice, Paris-Sud (France); Hannover (Germany),
 Curtin (Australia), British Columbia, Calgary, Western, Windsor, and Alberta (Canada); Santa
 Cruz (Brazil); Maastricht (Netherlands), Connecticut (USA). In total, the School has active
 research collaborations with 23 UK and 40 international research institutes, which help to further
 the reach of its researchers as well as enrich the research culture in Bangor.

 Broader contribution to the research community

 Editorial contributions
 The contribution made by researchers in SSHES has increased by 82% (11 to 20 journals) since
 REF2014 so that Bangor staff now have extensive involvement in editorial activities across many
 of the sector-leading journals. 11 staff members have fulfilled key roles during the period:

 1. Associate Editors: Applied Physiology, Nutrition and Metabolism (Oliver); Exercise
 Immunology Review (Walsh); Journal of Applied Sport Psychology (Hardy J); Journal of Sport
 and Exercise Psychology (Hardy L); Journal of Sports Sciences (Walsh); Journal of Sport
 Sciences USA (Lawrence); Perceptual and Motor Skills (Beattie); and, The Sport Psychologist
 (Woodman).

 2. Guest Editors: Sport Exercise and Performance Psychology (special edition on
 psychophysiology in sport, Cooke); The Sport Psychologist (special edition on self-talk in sport,
 Hardy J); and, Encyclopaedia of Sport Psychology (section editor on personality in sport,
 Roberts).

 3. Editorial Board members: Athletic Insight (Hardy J); European Journal of Sport Science
 (Hardy L); Exercise Immunology Review (Walsh); Current Issues in Sport Science (Hardy L,
 Woodman); Frontiers in Psychology (Cooke); High Altitude Medicine and Biology (Macdonald);
 Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology (Hardy J, Markland); Medicine and Science in Sports
 and Exercise (Walsh); Movement and Sport Sciences (Hardy L, Woodman); Movement
 Science and Sport Psychology (Cooke); Pamukkale Journal of Sport Sciences (Beattie);

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychological Reports (Beattie); Psychology of Sport and Exercise (Woodman); and, The Sport
 Psychologist (Roberts).

 Expert contribution to scholarly societies and agencies
 Thirteen staff undertake peer and expert reviewing for major funding agencies and Research
 Councils, an increase of 63% since REF2014. These agencies include: Arthritis Research UK;
 Australian Research Council (Hardy L); Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research
 Council (Kubis, Walsh); British Academy (Callow); British Council (Hardy L); Czech Science
 Foundation (Woodman); Economic and Social Research Council (Cooke, Roberts, Hardy L,
 Woodman); European Commission Marie Curie Fellowships (Cooke); Flanders Research
 Council (Oliver); German Science Federation (Roberts); Health Research Board Ireland
 (Oliver); National Institute for Health Research (Macdonald); Heart Research UK (Sandoo);
 Kidney Research UK (Macdonald); Leverhulme Trust (Kubis, Roberts, Woodman); Marie
 Curie (Roberts); Medical Research Council (Kubis); National Institute of Anaesthesiology
 (Oliver); National Science Centre – Poland (Oliver, Woodman); NSERC Canada (Moore);
 Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development (Kubis); Research Grants
 Council – Hong Kong(Hardy L); Rheumafonds (Sandoo); Social Sciences and Humanities
 Research Council of Canada (Hardy J, Hardy L); Swiss National Science Foundation (Hardy J,
 Kubis, Roberts); and, Wellcome Trust (Macdonald, Moore).

 Staff members from the school have had a direct influence on the strategic direction of subject
 associations/professional organisations: British Association Sport and Exercise Sciences
 (BASES; Conference committee member – Beattie); British Renal Society Rehabilitation
 Network (Macdonald – founding member); Expertise and Skill Acquisition Network (ESAN
 Committee Member – Lawrence); and UK Kidney Research Council Health and Wellbeing
 Group (Macdonald). Beattie and Walsh have also been recognised by the academic
 community and are Fellows of the British Association Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) and
 the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM), respectively. Beattie led SSHES hosting the
 successful BASES Student Conference in 2017. Within the Welsh Institute of Performance
 Sciences, Beattie, Blanchfield, Gottwald and Oliver have held discipline-specific lead roles.

 All established SSHES researchers have acted as external examiners for PhDs at UK and
 international universities (e.g., Australia, Canada, France, New Zealand). SSHES researchers
 (e.g., Callow, Hardy L, Walsh, Woodman) have also served as reviewers for the discipline’s
 reader and professorial applications at universities in the UK (e.g., Bath, Birmingham, Brunel,
 Cardiff Metropolitan, Edinburgh, Exeter, Loughborough) and overseas (e.g., Copenhagen
 University, Singapore’s Nanyang Technological University, Seoul National University, University
 of British Columbia, and University of Western Australia). Furthermore, in 2015, Hardy L
 facilitated UK Sport’s Strategic Planning Group through a series of meetings over 9 months to
 develop a Ten Year Strategic Plan for the development of high-performance sport in the UK. He
 has also been a reviewer for distinguished professor career awards of merit for Canadian
 (Western) and Australian (Griffith) universities.

 Keynote and plenary presentations
 SSHES researchers are well-represented at many subject-focused research conferences. The
 number of staff members delivering high-profile research talks has increased 400% since
 REF2014. As well as commonly contributing to invited symposia at conferences (e.g., FEPSAC;
 Beattie, Cooke, Hardy J), 10 members of staff have made keynote and plenary
 lectures/presentations to national and international conferences including the Annual Dialysis
 Conference (Macdonald, 2017), Asian Federation of Sports Medicine Congress (Beattie, 2019),
 Australasian Skill Acquisition Network (Cooke, 2019), European Peritoneal Dialysis Meeting
 (Macdonald, 2017), Expertise and Skill Acquisition Network (Lawrence, 2016), German
 Respiratory Physiology Conference (Kubis, 2016), Inaugural Global Renal Exercise Symposium
 (Macdonald, 2019), International Sports Science Congress (Hardy J, 2016; Woodman, 2015),
 Sport and Exercise Science NZ (Cooke, 2019), Updates in Chronic Kidney Disease National
 Conference (Macdonald, 2014), World Hydration Congress (Oliver, 2015), Welsh Exercise


                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medicine Symposium (Macdonald, Sandoo, 2018), and British Association of Sport and
 Exercise Sciences Conference (L Hardy, 2015, 2018).

 In addition, journal editors have showcased our published studies as exemplifying
 excellent research (e.g., the APA journal, Sport Exercise and Performance Psychology
 highlighting Beattie and Woodman’s work on the negative effects of self-efficacy), while other
 projects have received national and international acclaim. For instance, Hardy L, Barlow and
 Woodman’s UK Sport funded Great British Medallist project was a Times Higher Education’s
 (2015) runner-up for the UK’s best research project in the social sciences. A third psychology-
 specific example is Cooke and Woodman’s five study paper deemed to be the best published
 in the discipline’s flagship journal (Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology) for 2019.
 Meanwhile, in physiology, Oliver and Blanchfield’s paper on napping was shortlisted for the
 2018 paper of the year by the European Journal of Sport Science.

 While the above achievements and partnerships recognise recently conducted research and
 bode well for imminent research projects, the development of researchers and research talent is
 another strength associated with SSHES. Hardy L has supervised and mentored Professors in
 at least four UK universities (Bangor, Bournemouth, Cardiff Met, South Wales) and at least four
 Performance Directors/National Psychology Leads in UK level national governing bodies for
 Cricket, Hockey, Speed Skating, Rugby, Football, and Tennis. Recently graduated PGRs have
 gone on to hold academic positions in Sweden, Turkey, the USA, Thailand and Switzerland. One
 PGR student has gone on to hold a NASA-funded post in the Institute for Exercise and
 Environmental Medicine in Dallas (USA), won the Journal of Physiology Early Investigator Prize,
 and accepted a full Professorship in Austria aged only 35 years old. Due to the applied nature of
 sports science, research skills developed through supervision and collaboration with our staff
 have also influenced practice within the ECB (e.g., Barlow’s involvement with player and coach
 preparation for major events) and elite UK sport more widely (see Impact Case Study). This
 latter contribution straddles research and practice, with two PGR students participating in UK
 Sport’s Culture Project to research and advise on appropriate cultures across British Olympic
 sports. This impactful project was partially based on the findings of the GB Medallist project
 (Barlow, Hardy L, Woodman) and a culture-specific scoping project carried out in SSHES by
 Hardy L and Roberts. One of these students was appointed UK Sport’s first Lead for Mental
 Health in 2018.

 Leading contribution beyond academia
 Funders now encourage researchers to consider impact in the formulation of research projects
 and not just at the dissemination stage. This has meant involving stakeholders and research
 users in the development of both the research questions and the research methods used. Our
 enduring partnerships with ECB, UK Sport, the MoD indicate that we already follow this model.
 IPEP’s (Hardy L, Hardy J, Lawrence, Roberts, Woodman) strong partnership with the ECB
 exemplifies this and has resulted in five funded PhD studentships as well as the creation of a
 new post within their Science and Medicine Unit. Each of the funded PGRs and respective
 knowledge generated has been integrated into the structure of the ECB to optimally inform the
 organisation. For example, all Level 3 and 4 cricket coaches in the UK have been upskilled with
 this new and cricket-specific team effectiveness research knowledge. A second illustration
 involves changes to how “scouting” and talent development is now carried out. Due to the
 success and subsequent demand of an IPEP-developed mental toughness training programme,
 a similar programme was conducted at the County level of cricket.

 A noteworthy and particularly innovative example of this was a Bangor-led project that took an
 interdisciplinary approach to build upon the original mental toughness project to develop
 individualised resilience training. This Individualised Pressure Training project was conducted in
 close collaboration with the new performance psychologist as well as the Head of Science and
 Medicine, the National Lead for Psychology, and National Lead coaches for each cricket
 discipline. IPEP members supervised and contributed expert input enabling effective
 multidisciplinary data collection, analysis, interpretation, and implementation. This unique
 training programme was initially conducted with the Men’s Lions (developmental) National team

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and then the Women’s Senior National team. Its impact was most obvious with regards to the
 shaping of how the Men’s Senior International players prepared for their winning 2019 Cricket
 World Cup campaign. Corroborating the high value in which the ECB rated this project, the Head
 of Science and Medicine reported it to be the best and most exciting sport science intervention
 that the organisation had conducted to date.

 The numerous examples of externally-funded, impact embedded projects listed in Section 2,
 alongside our two submitted Impact Case Studies, outline the scale and scope of SSHES’
 research to the contribution, and upskilling of, organisations outside academia. Our PGR
 projects have provided insights to help businesses including Surf Snowdonia, Outlook
 Expeditions, and Snowdonia Watersports to innovate their products. These businesses have
 helped turn North Wales into the adventure capital of Europe, placing 4th in the 2017 Lonely
 Planet top 10 regions of the World to visit, contributing ~GBP500,000,000 to the Welsh economy
 and supporting ~800 full-time jobs. Presentations, reports, and guidance provided by SSHES
 staff during this REF cycle illustrate how our contribution is underpinned by effective
 communication/dissemination. For instance, evidence-based, solution-focused guidance has
 been provided in both health domains (e.g. exercise and arthritis texts including ACSM’s
 Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription) and sport domains (e.g., Lawrence advice on
 the updating of the WRU’s Level 1, 2, and 3 coaching awards) domains. Seven staff members
 have provided keynote and plenary lectures/presentations to national and international
 practitioner-oriented conferences such as the Australian Institute of Sport: World Class to World
 Best (Cooke, 2019), England and Wales Cricket Board Science and Medicine Conference
 (Hardy J, 2016; Hardy L, 2014, 2015; Woodman, 2017), England and Wales Cricket Board
 Coaching Conference (Lawrence, 2016), English Institute of Sport Conference (Oliver, 2017),
 Global Renal Exercise Network meeting (Macdonald, 2019) and UK Sport World Class
 Performance Conferences (Barlow, 2014, 2015).

 Staff members have also made contributions to more popular outlets that include BBC Radio
 (Jones, Woodman, Macdonald), BBC TV (Beattie, Roberts), BBC News website
 (Macdonald), Channel 4 Television (Woodman, Macdonald), Sky Sports TV (Woodman), S4C
 TV (Beattie, Hardy J, Roberts, Woodman), newspapers (Lawrence, including a front page
 article on The Daily Mail, Kubis), and a Tedex Talk (Roberts). We have actively contributed to
 the Welsh European Funding Office Work-based learning programme in Health & Wellbeing
 provided by the College of Human Sciences (Psychology, Health Sciences, and SSHES) to
 upskill the Wales health-oriented workforce. The courses were validated by Bangor University
 and were an opportunity for employees to access higher degree training. The overall programme
 worked with 78 private companies across North Wales with SSHES leading tuition on nutrition
 and hydration, leadership and management, and effective coaching.




                                                                                          Page 13
