Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 9 Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   1.1 - Unit Context
   The Hull Physics activities at the University of Hull are situated in the Department of Physics and
 Mathematics, which was re-established as an independent Department in 2014 following a period
 of operating within Physical Sciences. The core values of the Department are centred around
 inclusivity and our importance as a regional anchor institution with a global profile. Those values
 have guided our efforts in every aspect of our research and impact strategy. This is highlighted by
 our recent “Changing Face of Physics” campaign (Fig. 1), which has already been recognised at
 the national level, as well as our national and international outreach and education efforts, and our
 regional recognition as a highly technological talent pipeline for key industries. Further impact is
 leveraged by WRIPA+ (White Rose Industrial Physics Academy), a £5.6 million grant led by the
 Hull Physics to improve our students’ access to industrial partners through internships and
 training.




     Fig. 1: Illustration of the Changing Face of Physics campaign pioneered by Hull Physics

   The current external funding portfolio consists of approximately £3M in the REF period, including
 awards from UKRI (EPSRC, STFC, MRC), EU FP7 and Horizon 2020 (FET Open, MSCA),
 Innovate UK, KTPs, industrial sources, and charities (Leverhulme, Royal Astronomical Society;
 Ferens Educational Trust). The unit has published 409 peer-reviewed papers in the period.

   Our efforts have far-reaching impact on social welfare: from the products and services developed
 by our team, to outreach and education of the community. Furthermore, the innovation pioneered
 by our research impacts on the social welfare of the region and attracts companies that want to
 establish working relationships with us. Project AURA, an umbrella vehicle for multi-disciplinary
 research-engagement and commercialisation opportunities for University researchers to

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborate with manufacturers, developers, operators, skills providers, universities, government
 and others to drive innovation in the offshore wind and wider low carbon sectors, embodies this
 impact.

   All funding agreements incorporate investments into university infrastructure that allows us to
 train and nurture the next generation of innovators. In the meantime, the knock-on effects of having
 experts living and working within the region creates tangible benefits to the tax base.

   Our emphasis on igniting passions and ambitions, outreach and interactive demonstrations for
 school children showcase the ongoing innovation and inspires them to succeed in their own lives.
 Such activities impact on social welfare, since it helps to raise the aspirations of poor and
 disadvantaged students, enabling them to succeed through learning and discipline.

   1.2 - Unit Structure
   Hull physics and mathematics activities are grouped under a single Department of Physics and
 Mathematics. The two units are managed by a single head of Department (Gibson) and three
 deputies (Pignatari, Roediger, Dommers) with responsibility for research and teaching, alongside
 a director of postgraduate research (Kemp).

   The unit consists of two primary research Centres, addressing three research themes
 (Astrophysics, Laser physics, and Nanotechnology) and 11 members of staff with
 responsibility for research. It has built itself up from a low base to launch the E. A. Milne Centre
 for astrophysics and to contribute strongly to the interdisciplinary G. W. Gray Centre for Advanced
 Materials (covering laser science, and nanophysics, nanotechnology, and nanostructures: the
 Nano3 group). Since 2014, Hull Physics has employed six new research-active members of staff
 and undergone a university investment of approximately one million pounds in buildings and
 infrastructure. Moreover, two additional applied Mathematics lecturers have just been appointed,
 with a strong overlap with Physics (Blackhole physics/quantum field theory, and applied statistics,
 mathematical biology applications/biophysical modelling/pollution distribution around building).

   This structure enables a cross-fertilization of ideas between the two disciplines and has led to
 jointly-run, research-led postgraduate Masters degrees, and joint seminars on research topics that
 add breadth to both disciplines. The Department sits within the Faculty of Science and Engineering
 - one of four faculties in the university.

   The research staff during the entire REF period, including colleagues past (in brackets) and
 present, are split into the two groups as follows:
          •     Milne Centre (astrophysics): Benoit; Gibson; Pignatari; Pimbblet; Roediger;
        Zharkov; (Chongchitnan); (Reid-Edwards)
          •     Gray Centre (Laser Science and Nanophysics): Adawi; Buzza; Bouillard; Kemp;
        Snelling; Verrelli; Walton; (Emary); (Dyer); (Dyson); (O’Neil)

   The Milne Centre focuses on a breadth of astronomical problems under the umbrella topic of
 “origins” that ties directly to STFC’s roadmap for frontier sciences on the origin and evolution of
 stars and galaxies, as well as the origin of elements in the Universe. Building up from no staff, the
 centre features a vibrant mixture of computational astrophysics complemented by observational
 expertise in large format, multiwavelength survey astronomy.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   In parallel, Hull Physics’ contribution to the Gray Centre focuses on EPSRC’s themes of
 manufacturing the future and physical sciences and, through its applications, it contributes to all
 four prosperity outcomes (productive nation, healthy nation, resilient nation, connected nation).
 Within the Centre, our applied laser scientists take a functional physics approach - directly applying
 knowledge of light-matter interactions to problems identified by industrial partners. In parallel, our
 nanotechnology group (Nano3) covers complementary expertise in nanoelectronics,
 nanophotonics and nanomaterials. These directions interact strongly with key applications such
 as artificial intelligence, optical computing, innovative sensing solutions for medical and
 environmental needs, in concert with novel self-assembly approaches that address currently
 unanswered challenges in nanofabrication.

   Non-research staff also supports the activities of the unit: Ingham, Alanson, (Kelly), (Sands),
 (Urquhart).

  1.3 - Research and Impact Strategy
    1.3.1 – Research strategy
    Our research strategy is aligned along three major axes:

   1-Astrophysics (Milne Centre):
   The unit strategy for the E. A. Milne Centre is to bring together experts in computational and
 observation astrophysics to address some of the big questions of modern astronomy on how
 galaxies and stars form and evolve over cosmic time, as highlighted in the STFC roadmap on
 origins (https://stfc.ukri.org/research/science-challenges/). The international standing of the
 Centre is shown by its direct participation in many international institutes (e.g., GAMA and JINA-
 CEE), and by the leading roles played by its members in large research networks (for instance, in
 the US IReNA, the European ChETEC-INFRA, the NuGrid collaboration, TAIPAN, LSST).

    2-Laser Physics (Gray Centre):
    The laser group at the University of Hull, established in 1968, is a long-term and successful
 research theme in Hull Physics. The research strategy of the group is to probe the interaction of
 light with matter for scientific, industrial and medical applications. This primarily involves laser
 sources - hence the group also studies the generation and delivery of high intensity light. The Hull
 Physics’ laser expertise is represented across the university by Snelling’s role as University Optical
 Safety Officer.

   3- Nano3 group (Gray Centre):
   The Nano3research grouping was established in 2016 out of an Organophotonics research
 group. It focuses on three complementary aspects of nanotechnology: nano-materials, nano-
 electronics, and nano-photonics. The group’s strategy is to bring together highly complementary
 experimental and theoretical expertise to create and develop future technologies addressing key
 societal problems in the areas of energy, information storage, ICT and health.

   Furthermore, we feature a wealth of interdisciplinary and internal interactions that include, but
 are not limited to, Chemistry, Biology, Biomedical sciences and computer science. The synergy
 between the three themes is strong, with staff interactions maximising the productivity (e.g.
 Benoit’s activity in astrochemistry/astrobiology straddles both the Milne and Gray Centres;
 Snelling and Roediger collaborate to apply plasma simulation codes to simulating laser ablation



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 plumes). Additionally, there are natural interactions between the Laser Physics group and the
 Nano3group.

   In parallel, research from Hull Physics strongly supports and impacts other units of assessments
 in the University. In addition to many cross-disciplinary papers with Chemistry, Biology and
 Biomedical Sciences, Physics research has directly supported impact case studies in UoAs 8 and
 12, where Snelling and Kemp’s activities have contributed to the underpinning research.

    1.3.2 – Impact strategy


 Our impact strategy builds on the effective partnerships we develop with research-users. We
 focus on direct applications and industrial conversion of research to business, outreach and
 education. For industry, close links with industrial partners have produced a variety of KTPs, patent
 applications, material exchange (e.g. proprietary polymers, and dyes). For outreach, the Milne
 Centre uses its research outputs to train the next generation of students in coding, observation,
 and teacher training. An example is the ThaiPASS project (see Fig. 2) that delivered two summer
 schools on Python programming for Astronomy in 2018 and 2019 (with two additional schools,
 2021-2022). Our PhDs and PDRAs play crucial roles in these activities via demonstrations and
 contributing to guest lectures.
 The Aura Innovation Centre (AIC) recently opened at the Bridgehead Business Park on the
 outskirts of Hull. It is a £12M investment of University and European Regional Development
 Funding and provides space for large businesses and SMEs to access University research for
 collaboration and innovation, and in the offshore wind sector especially. It also houses dedicated
 Aura Innovation Managers, research labs and equipment that connect commercial users with
 university expertise to support shared activities, development and commercialisation (including
 projects supported by an £8M ERDF-fund of University-administered Sparkfund Innovation
 Vouchers and Research and Development grants).
 The University Directors of Business Engagement and Enterprise support this infrastructure, as
 does a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) Champion and dedicated KTP support. Transparent
 university support also includes HEIF funding (through application with an external user), dedicated
 Impact Officers and Impact Accelerator Awards also support this agenda.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Fig. 2: Summer School picture of our ThaiPASS python and astronomy summer school (2019)

   1.4 - Achieving impact through case studies
   Our national and international outreach and education efforts, and our regional recognition as a
 highly technological talent pipeline for key industries, are each showcased in our impact case
 studies.

   The outreach case study highlights how our research facilitates creativity, builds skills, and
 ultimately enhances society via activities that target under-represented groups and socio-
 economically disadvantaged regions. Our “Changing the Face of Physics” initiative doubled the
 number of women studying Physics at Hull, and we supported over 100 school teachers and
 provided over 30 work experience opportunities to under-represented groups. This activity
 contributes to the UK’s Industrial Strategy by inspiring, engaging and, for some, training a STEM-
 and digitally-literate workforce.

    In parallel, our Laser physics group takes a functional physics approach to laser physics and
 light-matter interactions: applying it directly to problems identified by industrial partners (e.g.
 Luxinar Ltd., The Welding Institute, BOFA Ltd.). We have enabled the launch of a new laser
 system, generated novel laser-based processes and diagnostics, and produced a high-quality
 workforce that supports the UK laser industry. Additionally, we have generated a talent-pipeline
 that transitions alumni into laser-based industries which supports the UK National Strategy for
 Laser-based Manufacturing. Our longstanding cooperation with laser companies in our region also
 underpins the UK’s capacity for this key industry.



   1.5 - Research objectives over the next 5 years
   Hull Physics' research objectives over the next five years will continue the development of its
 research themes, further strengthen our position as an anchor-institution, and continue our efforts
 towards inclusivity in STEM. We will achieve our stated vision through outreach from the Milne
 Centre and innovation via the Gray Centre.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   We will increase our cross-disciplinary activities, aligning closely with institutional strategic
 investments such as AURA EPSRC Doctoral Training Centre, the EEI (Energy and Environment
 Institute), Biological Sciences, and HYMS (Hull York Medical School). Many of our staff are also
 naturally interdisciplinary: our latest departmental appointment (Jie Yang, appointed 2021) is a
 world leader in pollutant dispersal modelling and applied epidemiology studies, and has already
 established links with AURA). We will be supported by four further appointments in applied
 mathematics in 2021.

   In Astrophysics we will expand our theory/computation research base in exoplanets. Exo-planet
 research is currently the clear missing-link in our research provision and the single-most important
 science driver for all major UK and EU infrastructure investments (as evidenced by our £1M in EU
 grants awarded in 2020 (Project name ChETEC-INFRA)).

   One major initiative to note is Hull Physics’ participation in 4MOST, a four meter class multi-
 object fibre-fed spectroscopic facility for survey astronomy that will be mounted on the VISTA
 telescope (ESO). It has a huge multiplexing advantage capable of obtaining 2400 targets over four
 square degrees simultaneously. This facility will cover the entirety of the Milne research ranging
 from Galactic disk studies and the origin of the elements in the Milky Way (Gibson, Pignatari,
 Benoit) through to extra-galactic science in large-scale structure and galaxy evolution (Pimbblet,
 Roediger, Gibson). Hull Physics’ involvement in this facility will generate outputs and impact for
 our next REF, and it will open opportunities to join prominent European observational projects in
 the next decade.

   The visions of the Laser physics and Nano3 groups respond to the Industrial Strategy, the
 Wakeham Review, and UK and EU funding priorities, as highlighted by a current EU Horizon 2020
 FET Open project POSEIDON (Jan 2020: Buzza, Adawi, Bouillard) which is a £3.07M European
 Project to develop a new platform for on-chip light sources in photonic integrated circuits
 (https://poseidon-fet.eu/).

   For Laser Physics, the UK Roadmap for Laser-based Manufacturing, published by the EPSRC
 CIM-LbPP and Association of Industrial Laser Users, calls for an increase in the use of lasers in
 manufacturing for the UK to compete internationally. Hull contributes to this roadmap through our
 interactions with industrial partners. The same roadmap also identifies “Fundamental laser
 process science to improve the understanding of laser-material interactions” as a key priority. This
 is a core approach of Laser Physics in Hull (as one of the most important underpinning
 technologies and R&D priorities).

   For Nano3, smart materials, manufacturing, nano-photonics will consolidate existing strengths
 (organophotonics, nano-sensing, soft-matter physics) as well as support and complement various
 AURA programmes and EEI directions. Additionally, medical physics (acknowledged by the APS
 and IOP as possessing significant growth potential) is developing as one of our areas of strength
 (Adawi, Benoit, Bouillard, Kemp). Consequently, we will continue to nurture our strong links with
 the NHS Trust, which have led to three PGR students working with local hospitals (Castle Hill
 Hospital, Cottingham), including the country’s first Jocelyn Bell Burnell Graduate Fellow (Kiri
 Newson).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  A further area of strength is the development of neuromorphic nanodevices and architectures,
 where two new grants were recently awarded (Kemp): EPSRC – Special Call – Hardware for
 Efficient Computing (EP/V028057/1), and a Leverhulme Trust grant (RPG-2021-115).

   In parallel, outreach remains one of the key elements in our strategy and Hull Physics accounts
 for the majority (>50%) of the University’s outreach (as per HEBCI returns), and we will continue
 to develop this aspect of our core values around inclusivity and our importance as an anchor
 institution.

   We will be looking to appoint new research active staff and support staff (e.g. outreach project
 officer, laboratory experimental officers) along those lines.

  1.6 - Open research environment and research integrity culture
  Hull Physics staff (Pignatari) coordinate the NuGRID collaboration (www.nugridstars.org), an
 open, flexible collaboration involving researchers from institutions from UK, USA, Canada, Italy,
 Germany, Spain, Australia and China. NuGRID’s code of conduct, access to codes and use of
 public products are regulated by the manifesto (https://nugrid.github.io/content/manifesto).

   Both the Milne Center and NuGrid are actively engaged in IReNA (International Research
 Network for Nuclear Astrophysics), for which the code of conduct regulates the mechanisms
 allowing to share research and research data openly as appropriate to the discipline, according to
 the APS guidelines for professional conduct and the AAS research Code of Ethics
 (https://www.irenaweb.org/code-of-conduct.html).

   Additionally, several members of Hull Physics are part of the European H2020 project ChETEC-
 INFRA (awarded in November 2020). It specifically aims to develop open-source codes and
 broadcast research and knowledge across Europe and the UK. The project will unify access to
 trans-national nuclear-astrophysics research infrastructures using a novel integrated web portal.
 It will develop improved nuclear reaction targets and detectors, open-source nucleosynthesis
 software tools, and three-dimensional model atmospheres for stellar spectral analysis. This EU
 project is linked to nuclear astrophysics communities in the United States, China, and Japan.

 The unit is committed to ethical and research integrity. All members of staff undertake mandatory
 ethics training. All research undertaken in the Faculty is recorded on the University research
 management platform (Worktribe) and needs ethical approval. Any sensitive aspects are
 discussed and reviewed by the Faculty Ethical Committee, and no research begins without ethical
 approval.



 2. People

   2.1 - Appointment of new staff & Staffing Strategy.
   Since 2014, five staff have retired or left the department and we have appointed seven (six
 research active and one on the teaching stream) new permanent members of staff in physics at
 all levels from Lecturer to full Professor.

  The primary staffing activity during the REF2021 assessment period was the establishment of
 an astrophysics stream alongside physics, with the appointment of five long-term astrophysics

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff (four REF-eligible and one on the teaching stream). All four REF eligible staff have been
 returned here. Undergraduate recruitment into astrophysics is increasing and is likely to lead to
 additional posts being released within the next two years in this area.

  In the same period, there have been eight promotions within Hull Physics. Our 14 full-time
 academic staff, three PDRAs, and 30+ doctoral students (on average more than two PhD students
 per staff member) represent more than a doubling of Hull Physics staff since REF2014 (when
 physics staff were returned under Chemistry and Engineering). Appointments have been made
 across all of our primary research areas in the REF period.

   A shift in skills focus into Data Science, AI, and machine learning has led to increased synergies
 with the medical physics community within the regional NHS Trust. We anticipate further
 expansion into this area that complements research already undertaken in machine
 learning/AI/neuromorphics within physics and astrophysics streams.

   We will aim to develop key areas through the appointment of at least one chair in experimental
 physics and one in theoretical/computational physics. Both appointments will sustain leadership
 across our three strategic research themes. These appointments will be further complemented by
 a minimum of three ECA/mid-career posts to further develop existing strengths.

     2.1.1 - Astrophysics
  The E. A. Milne Centre for astrophysics was established in October 2015 and has grown to
 seven full-time members of staff, two post-doctoral researchers, and 25 postgraduate students as
 well as three honorary members (Helen Sharman, Jocelyn Bell-Burnell, and Martin Rees). The
 Milne Centre director is Gibson (2015) who was supported directly through a newly created Milne
 Centre research fellow (Few, 2015 to 2019).

   The centre has been enhanced by the appointments of Benoit, Pignatari, Pimbblet, and Roediger
 (all promoted in the period) to create a broad expertise centred around computational astronomy,
 coupled with strong observational expertise in areas involving galactic and extra-galactic
 astronomy and cosmology, through to nuclear astrophysics and astrochemistry. Through external
 funding we have hosted world leading experts (e.g. Prof T. Beers funded for six months through
 a Leverhulme grant) to enhance our capabilities during the period, and the centre has been a
 focus of investment for the period by the University.

     2.1.2 - Laser Physics and Nanotechnology
   In parallel to the E. A. Milne Centre, the G. W. Gray Centre for Advanced Materials was
 established in September 2016 (named after Professor George Grey who developed liquid
 crystals materials science at Hull). It encompasses the activities of the Laser Physics and Nano3.
 This covers seven permanent members of staff, with two (Verrelli and Bouillard) appointed during
 the REF period to enhance pre-existing strengths in laser physics and nanotechnology research.
 Four staff were promoted in the period (Adawi, Bouillard, Buzza, and Kemp). Amongst other
 visiting members, we have also hosted Prof. Sir Michael V. Berry (H. H. Wills Physics Laboratory,
 University of Bristol) as part of a Leverhulme grant.

  2.2 - Staff Development
  Hull was awarded the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2012 in recognition of its
 commitment to promoting the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers. Since then, the award has been renewed following an internal review in 2014 and
 an external audit in 2016. The Faculty and University have introduced several schemes to directly
 support the career development of all staff (encompassing the full range of academic, professional
 services, and technical support staff).

   The University recognises the importance of work-life balance and offers a range of benefits
 including up to 76 weeks of maternity or adoption leave, as well as paternity leave, parental leave,
 dependants' leave, carer’s leave, leave for fertility treatment and the option to request flexible
 working. Balancing the competing needs of the unit is achieved through a workload model, which
 protects the research time of staff with responsibility for research.

   To develop new research directions and support existing ones, the Faculty of Science and
 Engineering introduced the Research Support Fund (up to £250k per annum in the period) that all
 research-active staff members can access. This covers all research activities from conference
 presentation, through research visits to equipment purchases. Every member of staff in Physics
 has been supported through this scheme in the REF period. The scheme especially encourages
 applications from early career academics and those retuning from parental or sickness leave. The
 scheme can make extra provision for parents with dependents if required. It also provides support
 specifically targeted at PDRAs for activities reaching beyond the funded grant that employs them
 – to allow them to further their personal research profiles from their PhD research, or a previous,
 or potential, Post-doctoral position.

   All staff are allocated mentors for both teaching and research in order to develop their profiles.
 Mentors undergo specific training (AdvanceHE) provided by the University to facilitate these roles,
 and mentors can be drawn from diverse areas of the university to serve different needs. This has
 yielded cross-disciplinary exchanges directly (e.g., in the area of computer science and machine
 learning) which have directly benefited Hull Physics in terms of new bids for external and internal
 funding (e.g., STFC citizen science bid).

   Grant writing skills are developed through the Grant Writing Challenge, whereby university
 Research Development Managers and senior colleagues guide a cohort of early career academics
 through a structured, six-month series of sessions to produce a competitive grant application.
 ThinkWrite Grant- and article-writing workshops are also held annually.

  Writing Retreats are supported in various forms. The Faculty had a member of staff trained as a
 Writing Retreat facilitator (by AdvanceHE) and day retreats on and off campus are supported.
 Writing retreats arevery productive and popular with some staff (often women and early career
 academics), which is why they continue to be supported.

  In 2017 the Faculty introduced annual research awards to recognise research and engagement
 activities. Seven categories stretched across all career stages, roles and collaborations, as well
 as leadership. These events are catered and build excellent research culture.

  Career development, continual professional development, and training for staff is provided via
 annual performance reviews and specialised university courses. This includes mandatory
 participation in training for inclusivity and diversity, research ethics, occupational health and safety
 governance, GDPR, corporate manslaughter and the law, project management and leadership
 courses (e.g., Aurora was undertaken by Roediger, AdvanceHE research team leadership was

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 undertaken by Benoit), and support for sabbatical leave (Kemp, Chua Memristor Center-TU
 Dresden, 2020).

   New lecturers in their first post are additionally supported through a reduced teaching load,
 combined with teaching training (Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice), incorporating
 graduate student supervision training. Further research training opportunities are provided by
 bespoke writing retreats (to help complete papers, or grant applications, etc.), and compulsory
 internal peer review of all grant applications to improve success rates.

  Hull Physics has a strong record of national and international visiting staff supported through the
 Department, Faculty, and national competitive grants. This has led to new collaborations and the
 expansion of existing ones to provide new research directions and grant bids.

 In addition, staff within the unit have held visiting status at other institutes during the REF period
 (Gibson was adjunct professor at Universidat de Granada, 2014, and distinguished professor at
 Hungarian Academy of Science, 2015-2016; Bouillard was visiting senior researcher at King’s
 College London 2014-2017 and visiting scientist at University of Technology of Troyes, France in
 2018; Pignatari was an honorary associate of Konkoly Observatory, Budapest for the period;
 Pimbblet was adjunct senior astrophysicist at Monash University, Australia 2014-2016; Kemp is
 Visiting Senior Research Fellow at the Chua Memristor Center (2020-present). These
 appointments all led to research outputs, and additional students undertaking research at Hull
 during exchange visits.

   2.3 - Materialising impact from staff research
   To enable staff to maximise the potential impact of their research, the unit has a dedicated
 industrial liaison officer (Ingham) who facilitates collaboration with industrial contacts within the
 WRIPA+ £980k grant. The unit also has access to the AURA Innovation centre’s specialist impact
 personnel, such as its two Innovation Managers, to business and commercial support from the
 Enterprise Centre, and assistance from an IP office to explore and protect the intellectual property
 of promising scientific results.

   In addition, the University supports Outreach and training activities to promote research and
 disseminate key results through a range of services, including dedicated School liaison office, and
 Outreach events organisation.

   2.4 - Research Students.
     2.4.1 - Recruitment and Funding
   We currently have over 30 post-graduate research students (with around three new students
 every year). They are recruited from a plurality of sources that include University of Hull funded
 thematic clusters of PhD studentships, research council funded doctoral students (e.g., STFC),
 European funding (Horizon 2020), external government funded students (notably several Iraqi
 students), joint PhD funding from the University of Hull and external sources (e.g., Hungarian
 Academy of Sciences, the French FEDER (European Funds for Regional Development)), plus
 self-financing students from the UK. Notably, in 2020, Kiri Newson won one of four prestigious
 IOP Bell Burnell Graduate Scholarship Fund, aimed at addressing EDI in the UK physics
 landscape, enabling her to pursue a PhD in Artificial Intelligence in Medical Physics (Benoit) in
 collaboration with NHS Castle Hill Hospital.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Additionally, the University invested in a joint PDRA position, supplemented by external funds
 from LABEX (LABoratory of EXcellence) in France. Approximately 15% of our postgraduate
 students in the period have been non-UK in origin.

   The PhD clusters funded by the University of Hull are up to six studentships and are designed
 to develop areas of existing or potential strength in the University. Hull Physics has had repeated
 success under this scheme with the Milne Centre and the Gray Centre both receiving multiple
 awards, with 18 studentships across nine clusters covering topics such as medical physics, 3-D
 printing, environmental sensing, astrophysics, and big-data.

   A further strand of summer studentship schemes is funded by the University and by external
 funders (Royal Astronomical Society, Rank Prize Funds Summer Vacation Scholarship, Royal
 Society of Chemistry). These have led to an increase of students undertaking PhDs at Hull and
 externally.

   Additionally Hull Physics is an active partner in the new international Nano-Phot Graduate
 School (official Hull contact - Bouillard), which includes partners across the academic and
 industrial sectors from North America (USA and Canada) to Singapore via Germany and Russia
 (https://nano-phot.utt.fr/partners), and benefiting both nanotechnology and lasers research
 themes.

     2.4.2 - Training and Support
   All postgraduates are supervised by a minimum of two academics and are required to undertake
 60 credits (PhD) or 20 credits (MSc) of taught courses with the universities’ accredited credit
 system - a postgraduate training scheme run via the doctoral college of the University.

   The courses offered provide core training (modern research topics, ethics, health and safety,
 leadership, communication skills), and are tailored to students. Each 20 credit module features up
 to 40 hours of contact, and beyond the compulsory modern research training; modules can be
 selected in agreement with student supervisors from a portfolio of HE7 offerings across the
 university (e.g., computer programming modules in specific languages, cutting edge research
 topics from capstone astronomy, nanofabrication and nanophotonics, topics in data science). In
 order to enable postgraduate students to discuss any aspects of their PhD degrees and
 corresponding taught elements, a postgraduate staff-student forum has been established (2018).

   Training is supplemented by an initial induction process, and annual research days where each
 student is required to present either a poster or a talk, and to participate in open question and
 answer sessions about topics such as the summative viva at the end of the degree. All students
 are given access to bespoke research areas to conduct their work. They also have access to the
 specialist seminars run by the research centres within the unit, plus the regular Hull Physics
 seminar series. To ensure full engagement with the speakers, we run a postgraduate question
 time at the end of each presentation wherein academic staff leave the venue and the students ask
 their questions to the speaker uninhibited by the presence of senior colleagues.

   Specific training in lab equipment and supercomputer access is given on requirement. In view
 of their importance for post-graduate students’ scientific development, during the pandemic those
 seminars were immediately moved to online delivery, while retaining the question and answer
 format, ensuring their continuity. Other responses to Covid-19 disruption included funded

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 extensions for PhD students (and PDRAs if needed), support with IT and workstation equipment
 for researchers working off-campus, and additional research Culture and Community Seminars to
 sustain the research environment while normal university conditions were suspended.

   Finally, we note that our postgraduate cohort has a strong involvement in our outreach culture
 and are regularly invited to assist with observing evenings, A-level and GSCE enhancement
 sessions for schools, as well as giving talks to further the public understanding of science. This
 activity enables our graduates to develop a wider understanding of how to disseminate their own
 work and improves their career prospects, as well as strengthening our Anchor University role for
 local communities.

   Postgraduate progress is monitored through the use of formal monthly reports driven by the
 students and agreed to by supervisory staff member, and annual progress reports and viva at the
 end of the first and second years of the degree. This enables rigorous and supportive feedback to
 the students and ensures their readiness for the summative viva examination at the end of the
 degree.

   2.5 - Equality and Diversity
   Equality, diversity, and inclusivity are underlying principles of Hull Physics. Together with
 colleagues in chemistry and mathematics, we established an Athena SWAN committee in 2016
 with representation deliberately sought from all grades of staff contract, all levels of seniority, and
 a balance of gender. We have embedded practices to:
       • promote gender equality within the unit and beyond
       • ensure a 50/50% gender ratio for invited speakers in departmental events (e.g. seminars,
          conferences, summer schools)
       • deliver unconscious bias training and Equality and Diversity training for all staff carrying
           out interviews
       • ensure that all publicity is adequately gender balanced
       • ensure workload model transparency for all staff
       • identify staff ready for promotion

   These policies and practices were implemented with the feedback obtained anonymously from
 staff and student cohort surveys. This led to a Bronze Athena SWAN award in 2018, for which Hull
 Physics was cited at a national level for good practice for our “Changing Face of Physics”
 marketing campaign. This campaign focussed on creating a step change in the proportion of
 women taking physics degrees. It dramatically improved the percentage of female undergraduates
 from significantly below the national average (13% in 2014) to significantly above (26% in 2017)
 in the span of a few years.

  We are currently collecting further EDI data to support our Silver Athena SWAN submission, and
 have established a committee to oversee the process, identify and implement the necessary
 adjustments to our existing unit policies. Our efforts will focus on protecting staff work-life balance
 and further supporting staff family commitments and childcare such as:
      • a flexible working policy that acknowledges family life, with key meetings within 9.00am-
          3.00pm
      • workload that is proportional to FTE (so part time staff are not disadvantaged)
      • establishing EDI, and Health, Safety and Wellbeing as standing agenda items on all
          formal meetings

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

   Over the REF period, Hull Physics has secured over three million pounds of external grant
 money (direct income to the unit). This was enhanced by approximately one million pounds of
 University budget to build our capacity in people, infrastructure and facilities. Hull Physics
 infrastructure is spread over three buildings on campus and is grouped thematically according to
 our research specialisms.

  3.1 - Income
  Notable grants (over £300K of direct income to Hull) include:
      • EU POSEIDON (EU-H2020-FET-OPEN)
      • ChETEC-INFRA (EU-H2020)
      • INFINITY (EU-H2020-SC-Climate)
      • SelfAssembly of two dimensional colloid (EPSRC)
      • Monodomain Organic Semiconductors (EPSRC)
      • Astrophysics at the University of Hull (STFC)

   In addition, we have been successful in obtaining smaller, non-UKRI funding in a number of
 areas, including:
       • EU-COST (25k; Adawi, Bouillard, Pignatari)
       • Ofqual (5k; Snelling)
       • Spanish ministry (85k; Gibson)
       • HEFCE / HEIF (62k; Kemp; Pimbblet, Bouillard; Snelling)
       • Royal astronomical society funding for running NAM (25k; Milne Centre)
       • Ogden Foundation (30k; O’Neill, Pimbblet, to fund Urquhart’s position)
       • Innovate UK (125k; Snelling; Kemp)
       • Leverhulme (200k; Gibson, Snelling)
       • ERDF (16k; Verrelli, Walton) through the AURA Innovation Center
       • Industrial investment and sponsorship (120k from Rofin Sinar UK for Snelling, 60k from
           Tyco for Kemp).

   Complementing this research income, Hull Physics has benefitted from the collaborative use
 of research infrastructure and major in-kind contributions.
   The “Horizon Run 5” high-resolution simulation captures the key galaxy formation physics, while
 modelling the large-scale structure of the Universe. The simulation enjoyed a 350 Mcore-hr in-
 kind contribution from KISTI (Korean Institute of Science and Technology Information) on their
 new HPC facility, valued at ~£3.5M.

   Hull Physics’ collaboration with Luxinar Ltd. (a leading Laser manufacturing company) led to an
 in-kind contribution of a loan of a £140k laser, as well as the donation of two carbon dioxide lasers
 (~£10k). The Physics laboratories also received a fume extraction unit from BOFA International
 Ltd (~£1.5k).

   Other significant facilities include external clean rooms (UTT, France; Bouillard, Adawi);
 Supercomputing facilities (Westgrid, Canada; Hungarian HPC NIIF; Pignatari; EU PRACE/DECI
 HPC; NRAC, Canada; Gibson); and observatories (AAT, 2m Siding Spring; Pimbblet; HST,
 Pimbblet and Roediger; Chandra, IRAM, VLA, Roediger; UKST, Gibson, Pimbblet).



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     3.2 – Infrastructure and facilities
   Within the faculty strategic investment plan for 2015-2021, £0.6M were allocated for additional
 equipment to support Hull Physics research and project student training (including an Atomic
 Force Microscope, a CCD camera to augment the FLIM set-up capabilities, a High Precision
 Motion Control, and a new £110k fully automatic multi-turret e-beam/thermal evaporator). In
 parallel, the university invested in HPC with the installation of a new computational cluster in
 October 2016 (VIPER: composed of approximately 5,500 processing cores, at a total cost of £2.1
 million). The Milne Centre obtained maximum benefit from these HPC investments with more than
 50% of all the computational time available allocated for computational physics research. This
 facility also helped to train PhD students and accrued grant income worth three times its cost.

   Our laser science and nanotechnology research is supported by a range of external sources
 encompassing UKRI, EU, industrial projects and charities. It has expanded rapidly over the REF
 period and its strategic plan is to directly engage in the “Health and Wellbeing” theme of the
 University through its research strength in nano-photonics, plasmonics, biophysics and health. In
 support of this area, significant university investment has provided new equipment (e-beam
 evaporator, fluorescence lifetime imaging microscope, X-ray diffractometer for scanning electron
 microscope, nuclear magnetic resonance instruments, capillary electrophoresis, atomic force
 microscope, glove box, matched funding for new laser equipment, totalling £1.1M), as well as
 completely refurbished lab space (£500k). The total Hull Physics lab space covers 1060m2 and is
 shared between six experimental permanent academic staff (177 m2 per permanent academic
 staff).

   The lab space houses state of the art equipment including a spectroscopy and nanophotonics
 instrumentation suite; a nano-electronics characterisation laboratory, and laser experimentation
 space, all of which have strong interactions with industry as indicated below.

    In addition, the experimental research groups also benefit from a shared clean-room with
 Engineering which houses Physics-owned key nanofabrication equipment including nano-imprint
 lithography and photo-lithography, and SEM.
    This is complemented by a Faculty owned Microscopy Suite, which houses state-of-the-art
 equipment including:
        • Zeiss EVO60 Scanning Electron Microscope with electron dispersive spectroscopy
           (EDS) and cryogenic capability
        • JEOL 2010 High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscope with EDS capability and
           a Gatan Ultrascan 4000 camera for excellent image quality
        • Zeiss Axio Vert.A1 inverted microscope and an Olympus IX 71 inverted microscope for
           wide field fluorescence microscopy
        • Zeiss LSM710 Laser Scanning Confocal Microscope for laser scanning confocal
           microscopy
        • Bruker Dimension Edge atomic force microscope, including conductive AFM modes

   Further, it features a wet lab, an ISO standard 6 to 7 clean room containing all equipment
 necessary for the preparation of electron microscopy samples, an ultramicrotome, a cryostat and
 a critical point dryer for sample preparation. The Microscopy Suite is also open for work extensively
 with industry and other universities to assist with their analytical requirements.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   The Milne Centre is co-located in 453 m2 of office space within the main physics building. Our
 six permanent members of staff, three postdoctoral scholars, and 11 doctoral students occupy a
 suite of refurbished offices equipped with modern computing facilities. The Milne Centre is
 supported by external funding from STFC, RAS, EU, and Leverhulme to a total of approximately
 £1.6M over the REF period, as well as significant investment by the university in the form of PhD
 scholarships and computing.

 The university is committed to support the Milne Centre as evidenced by its support for NuGRID,
 JINA, LSST, TAIPAN, and financial contribution to the Ogden Science Officer scheme (employing
 Urquhart during the period). The Centre aims to grow through diversifying its income streams,
 including interdisciplinary scholarship applications, and via intensifying outreach activities, for
 which it is already having a strong impact in the region and beyond.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 - Overview
  In the REF period, Hull Physics has collaborated with over 100 other institutions (as evidenced
 by our published outputs), and with 43 other nations, including the Hull-led ThaiPASS partnership
 with Thailand funded by the STFC Newton Fund to enhance computation skills of school children.
 The University is also a partner on UKRI doctoral training provision (AURA EPSRC DTC, NERC
 Panorama DTP, China Scholarships Council, The Commonwealth Studentships Scheme) as well
 as our OfS funded WRIPA+ program.

   Milne centre leadership and collaboration includes major roles in significant international
 projects with NuGrid - the nucleosynthesis grid collaboration (PI Pignatari); the joint institute for
 nuclear astrophysics (JINA international advisory committee Gibson; working group chair
 Pignatari); bridge research in the different disciplines related to the galactic chemical evolution
 and nuclear astrophysics (steering committee members Gibson and Pignatari); chemical elements
 as tracers of the evolution of the cosmos (ChETEC; WG leader Pignatari); the UK supercomputing
 consortium COSMOS executive committee Gibson); radial velocity experiment (RAVE building
 Gibson); GAs Stripping Phenomena in galaxies (Roediger); WiggleZ dark energy spectroscopic
 survey (PI and survey builder Pimbblet); galaxy and mass assembly (member Pimbblet); TAIPAN
 - a forthcoming survey of the Southern Sky (PI Pimbblet); large synoptic survey telescope (LSST
 board member Pimbblet); student exchange scheme with Budapest (Pignatari).

   Gray Centre leadership and collaboration incorporates inception of the joint ultrashort laser
 material interaction facility at Hull, Luxinar Ltd. (Management board and PI Snelling); EU Horizon
 2020 FET Open project POSEIDON (fabrication of on-chip light sources through self-assembly
 and electrically pumped quantum dots PI Buzza; Bouillard; Adawi); UTT France student exchange
 scheme and facilities exchange (nanofabrication agreement; Bouillard, Adawi). Additionally, close
 interactions with the Energy and Environment Institute through a range of projects, including the
 Safeguarding our Waters PhD Cluster (Adawi, Bouillard, Kemp), and activities in the NERC
 Panorama DTP (Adawi, Bouillard), allows for direct applications of our nanoelectronics,
 nanophotonics, and nanomaterials research to key societal and environmental challenges.

   Moreover as part of the EU project GEOSTICK, a joint PhD project (Benoit) on Astrobiology aims
 at modelling and measuring the attachment of life precursors (key molecules for the emergence

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of life) on silicate clays: this is essential for understanding the stability of sediments on Earth, and
 gauging the possibility of life beyond our planet. In parallel, collaborations with the Hull-York
 Medical School (HYMS), NHS Castle Hill Hospital, and Staff at St Thomas Hospital (KCL) allow
 us to extend our impact to medical physics and biomedical sciences, for example with the design
 and development of multimodal 'theranostic' agents for thrombosis (Bouillard, MRC), the
 understanding and optimising of novel bioimaging probes (Adawi, Bouillard), or even artificial
 intelligence for cancer detection and treatments (Benoit, IOP and NHS).

   Our contribution to the research base covers a wide array of items that include but are not
 limited to:

  Journal editorship:
     • Astrophysical Journal editor (Gibson);
     • Publications of the Astronomical Society of Australia editorial board (Gibson 2014-2016);
     • Publications of the Astronomical Society of Australia advisory board (Pimbblet 2014-
        2016);
     • International Journal of Laser Science editorial board (Snelling and Walton);
     • Frontiers in Astronomy and Space Science guest editor (Zharkov);
     • International Journal of Wettability Science editorial board (Walton);
     • Chemical Physics Impact editorial board (Benoit).

  Learned Societies and Leadership:
     • Council of the Royal Astronomical Society (Gibson 2016-2018)
     • promoted to Fellow of the Astronomical Society of Australia in the period for recognition
        of professional achievements (Pimbblet)
     • Members of the Institute of Physics (Bouillard, Buzza, Gibson, Snelling, Pimbblet)
     • Fellows of the Royal Astronomical Society and International Astronomical Union (Benoit,
        Gibson, Pimbblet, Zharkov)
     • Astronomical Society of Australia (Pimbblet)
     • London Mathematical Society (Zharkov)
     • Royal Society of Chemistry (Adawi, Benoit; Bouillard)
     • American Astronomical Society (Gibson)

   Additionally, Hull Physics staff have contributed to other leadership and advisory roles that
 directly contribute to the research base, the economy and wider society. For example, Gibson is
 one of the five members of the IOP Heads of Department (HoD) Steering Group, and in line with
 our equality, diversity and inclusion principles, he was also part of the IOP’s Giving Voice to
 Inclusion Focus Groups, as part of its commitment to EDI. Additional highlights include the EPSRC
 Peer Review College (Buzza), membership of the board of trustees for the spacelink learning
 foundation (Gibson); advisory board of Yobi Minds Ltd. (Gibson); Royal Society University
 Research Fellowships panel (Gibson); Councillor on the governing body of the Royal Astronomical
 Society (Gibson); Rapporteur for the Italian Ministry of Education (Gibson); Management
 committee member of Molspin EU Cost action (Kemp); Institute of Physics Polymer Physics Group
 leadership committee (Buzza); Institute of Physics Liquids and Complex Fluids leadership
 committee (Buzza); board member for the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (Pimbblet); and
 Project AURA (Snelling)




                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Conferences and conference leadership: Hull Physics staff gave approximately 60 invited
 talks and keynote addresses at national and international conferences. This incorporates
 leadership in SOC and LOC roles at a rate of 15%. We highlight, in particular, the STFC summer
 school (2016, held on campus; chaired by Gibson and run by the Milne Centre); the NAM - National
 Astronomy Meeting (2017, held on campus; chaired by Gibson and run by the Milne Centre - the
 first time either the Royal Astronomical Society or STFC conferences have operated on the
 campus of the University of Hull); Optical Wave and Waveguide Theory and Numerical Modelling,
 City University, London, 2015; Bouillard); HEIF-funded workshop on impact in outreach on
 campus (2018; chaired by Pimbblet, SOC and LOC including Bouillard); Royal Astronomical
 Society meeting on Quenching galaxies at high and low redshifts (2019; SOC and co-organizer
 Pimbblet); 5th Edition of the Nanotech France international conference and exhibition (2019;
 steering committee; Adawi). IAUS350 Laboratory Astrophysics – from Observations to
 Interpretation (2019; LOC Benoit).

  Awards: Gibson was awarded the John Porter Memorial Lecture by the Institute of Physics in
 2015, the Ray Bootland Memorial Lecture by the Hampshire Astronomical Group in 2019, and the
 Leon Davies Lecture by the Astronomical Society of Glasgow in 2019.

  As a collective, the Milne Centre was awarded the Faculty’s highest research honour for
 excellence in research (Faculty of Science and Engineering Research Excellence Award, 2017).
 This underscores its role as a key research jewel in the University, being responsible for a few per
 cent of the paper produced by the University, but accounting for almost ten per cent of all citations.

   Further contributions to society: aligning with our anchor institution principles, our activities
 include the ThaiPASS Newton Fund’s award to Pignatari to enable Python-programming
 education for students in Thailand, which is being exported locally within our schools network;
 teaching training and continual professional development; funding from HEIF to Pimbblet to
 explore the best ways to measure and quantify the impact of education and outreach research;
 and a STFC Spark Award (Pimbblet) to create ‘escape rooms for outreach’ based on STFC
 science and research.

   Hull Physics is heavily involved in the University of Hull Science Festival, which runs yearly and
 is a prime platform to reach local communities and schools. We also contributed significantly to
 the British Science Festival 2018 (in Hull) delivering events around our key research (e.g. AI,
 Galactic evolution, Astro-biology). Finally, a number of our staff have held joint appointments with
 other institutes.
       • Pignatari is a fellow of the Hungarian Academy of Science which has resulted in
           exchange students from both nations
       • Pimbblet is an adjunct astrophysicist at the Monash Centre for Astrophysics, Melbourne,
           which has resulted in Australian graduate students making extended visits to the Milne
           Centre
       • Bouillard is the University of Hull contact for the international Nano-Phot Graduate School
           (https://nano-phot.utt.fr/partners), which offers an unparalleled programme of excellence,
           with an international dimension and direct contact with scientific and socioeconomic
           stakes related to the use of light, on a nanometre scale and in a sustainable development
           approach. This advanced nanophotonics training sees research staff delivering an
           ambitious education program to train the next generation of researchers and
           professionals at the cutting edge of nanophotonic sciences and technologies.

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   Our KTP with Bemrose Booth Paragon Ltd (Snelling, Kemp), to develop new inks for a ticket
 printing company, was awarded “outstanding” for its final score. The partnership was shortlisted
 in the 2016 Knowledge Transfer/Exchange category of the Times Higher Education Leadership &
 Management Awards, and was commended highly in the 2016 Educate North Awards within the
 Commercial Engagement category. It won the 2018 Yorkshire Business Masters Investment
 Award and the 2017 Yorkshire Post Excellence in Business Turnaround Award. It was also
 shortlisted in the Innovation and International Trade category and the Advanced Manufacturer and
 Manufacturer of the Year category for the 2017 Yorkshire Business Masters competition and the
 2017 Made in Yorkshire Awards, respectively. In May 2019, the award-winning partnership also
 claimed the Business Impact Award at Innovate UK's 2019 Best of the Best Awards.

   Recently Hull Physics has started a project in collaboration with the local SME Qudos Energy
 which attracted 16k of ERDF funding (through the Aura Innovation Center) to develop new state
 of the art LED lighting solutions for the efficient growth of fruits and vegetables (Verrelli, Walton).

  Further HEIF grants have supported Hull Physics’ research, impacting:
     • energy and environment (Hydrogen for Homes)
     • neuromorphic computing (Ultra-fast Optical Switch Memristors)
     • creating stronger ties with local education providers, local council authorities and
         stakeholders (workshop on impact in outreach on campus).

 Hull Physics has won a large grant from the Office for Students to create work experience
 opportunities for physics students in local high-tech businesses. WRIPA+ (http://wripa.ac.uk) is an
 employability fund which has an appointed business engagement officer directly sourcing
 opportunities for our students. The business engagement officer will educate local high-tech
 businesses on what Physics students can offer, and then construct a database of internships for
 the students to access. The engagement officer (Ingham) also has a student facing role - offering
 personalised career support to Physics students. To maximise inclusivity and access to work
 experiences, WRIPA+ also funds travel and accommodation costs for placements in local
 businesses, tearing down any barriers stopping students from securing valuable internships.

 In the near future, we will deepen our interaction with new start-ups in the artificial intelligence
 domain - chiefly Optalysis; a Wakefield based company growing new AI and machine learning
 methods that will directly enhance our research and feed into our curriculum via joint research
 projects. We are also starting new projects with the Energy and Environment Institute and the
 Natufia company to use nanophotonics to enhance their hydroponics product (Bouillard, Adawi).




                                                                                                Page 18
