Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: 20

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The School of Criminology within the College of Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities at the
 University of Leicester is a vibrant centre of excellence for applied criminological research and
 one of very few stand-alone criminology schools anywhere in the world. We research across a
 range of themes but are known specifically for our work on victims/survivors, perpetrators, and
 responses to crime. Our School has made notable contributions in the areas of hate crime,
 prisons and policing. Our vision is to shape ‘real world’ operational and policy outcomes through
 the delivery of a globally relevant applied research agenda.

 This vision is shared across our team of research-facing colleagues (made up of two lecturers,
 six associate professors and three professors) and is rooted within the early foundations of our
 School which was first set up in 1987 as the Centre for the Study of Public Order. Our transition
 to a School of Criminology in 2004 reflects our broader criminological lens through which we
 continue to shine a light on the challenges to liberties, justice, equality and fairness in our work
 today, pushing for change through our engagement with the real world.

 Our research:
     improves public understanding of crime and the criminal justice system;

        fosters confident and capable criminal justice professionals;

        enables criminal justice agencies to tackle crime and victimization from an evidence base
         of ‘what works’;

        develops sustainable, evidence-based interventions; and

        shapes effective government policy.

 This involves working closely with:
     victims/survivors of crime including sex workers, minority ethnic and faith communities,
         disabled people, those who identify as LGBTQ+, businesses and commercial sectors,
         young people, and rape survivors.

        perpetrators of crime including those in secure settings (prisons and forensic hospitals)
         and those engaged in acid attacks, hate crime, hit and run crime, right wing extremism,
         substance use, sexual offending, organised crime, and economic/commercial crime.

        practitioners responding to crime including policing, prisons, probation, forensics, support
         services, advocate and campaign groups, third sector organisations, health and mental
         health providers.

 Through these strands of work, we have produced over 400 outputs (68 books, 265 journal
 articles, 36 chapters, 8 patents, 32 reports) during the past seven years, 95% of which are OA
 compliant. We have increased and diversified our research income, generating research awards
 of £4.2 million in the current REF cycle. Our income from this has been £2,890 million compared


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to income of £455,366 in REF2014. We have increased our PGR numbers through scholarship
 awards, building a strong PGR culture and offering high-quality training. This has delivered 14
 PhD completions (compared to 5 in REF2014) and has resulted in our doctoral student numbers
 growing from 14 to 28 during the last 7 years.

 Research and Impact Strategies
 Our 2014 objectives focused on enabling staff to pursue diverse interests, investment in career
 development, diversification of research income strands, and prioritizing collaborative research
 activities. In the last period we have achieved these objectives with significantly increased grant
 capture, internal promotions, a strategic staff recruitment plan and an outstanding record for
 applied impact work. During the last 5 years (since REF2014) our objectives have evolved with a
 new leadership vision and senior leadership team (headed up by Chakraborti).
 Transformational impact, partnerships, interdisciplinarity and internationalization are themes
 which underpin our research and impact strategies, as outlined below.

 Our four strategic aims were to:
    1. Conduct transformational impact-led research which acts as a catalyst for the
        development of effective and sustainable responses to victims and perpetrators, and the
        improvement of the criminal justice system.

    2. Develop sustainable partnerships and networks which enable the development of new
       theoretical frameworks and advancements in the discipline of criminology and the social
       sciences more broadly.

    3. Adopt interdisciplinary approaches and methodological innovation to create new
       knowledge and solutions which draw on collaborations between academics, government
       and community partners.

    4. Address global challenges relating to crime and criminal justice by developing
       international collaborations which generate comparative research and knowledge
       transfer.

 Approach to Delivering the Research and Impact Strategy
 Our research is focused on understanding crime related social problems, finding better
 solutions/interventions and making real world change to policy and practice amongst criminal
 justice professionals and organizations. The environment we nurture enables individuals at all
 levels of career to develop new ideas, to work together on next-stage career goals [FitzGibbon,
 Hopkins, Sleath, Tonkin]. We encourage staff to work in larger multi-disciplinary teams [Ayres,
 Chakraborti, Kerrigan, Smith] and to develop research leadership at a range of levels
 [Sanders, Davis, Tonkin].

 Methodological Innovation
 Underpinning our four strategic aims is a commitment to novel methodological approaches and
 techniques which drive innovation within the social sciences. This has included participatory
 action research (e.g. Sanders’ work with sex workers), peer involvement models (e.g. Sleath’s
 work with survivors of sexual violence), crime mapping (e.g. Hopkins), data mining (e.g.
 Tonkin’s research on serial rapists, burglars and robbers – ICS2), and creative methods
 combining arts approaches such as photovoice/photography, map making and letter writing (e.g.
 Fitzgibbon’s research on the lived experiences of individuals under probation supervision and
 Ayres & Tonkin’s use of letter writing with transgender and non-binary prisoners). We have


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 used secondary data analysis, longitudinal ethnography and evaluation research as tools for
 new knowledge creation. The benefit of this methodological toolbox is that we often conduct
 mixed methodology projects, combining quantitative and qualitative methods. Using this dynamic
 approach not only reaches communities who are less visible in research, but includes
 participants as researchers, disseminators and transferors of knowledge.

 For example, participant engagement and mentoring are integrated into methodologies.
 Kerrigan has reduced gang recruitment through a series of workshops with young men in
 Trinidad, and a ‘lived experience group’ is integral to the MESARCH (Sleath) work with sexual
 violence survivors, where participants are encouraged (and trained) to be participant-researcher
 interviewers. Similarly, in Sanders’ work, co-researchers and advisory boards are employed
 from the sex work community as experts with lived experience. Key to almost all our
 methodologies is the centring of the community and participants in the research, showing deep
 commitment to collaborative approaches.

 Interdisciplinarity
 Our research foci reside in criminology as a discipline, but our expertise and backgrounds are
 drawn across a range of disciplines including social policy, sociology, law, gender studies,
 psychology, forensics, politics and anthropology. More than half of our team have practical
 expertise in forensics, psychological services, youth offending, social work, court services,
 probation, policing, prison work and victim support. We secure grant income across these areas
 and have developed numerous partnerships with external stakeholders in the public, private and
 third sectors, making a range of substantial interventions in practice and policymaking in the
 criminal justice arena.

 Our interdisciplinary work reaches beyond the UK borders to form partnerships and
 collaborations with professionals involved in forensics and genetics; health care; and criminal
 justice agency practices. Interdisciplinary work is central to international work with organizations
 such as the Wangu Kanja Foundation on preventing sexual violence [Smith] and Bar Hostesses
 Empowerment and Support Program [Sanders] both in Kenya; work with law enforcement
 agencies across Europe, Africa and New Zealand to detect and prosecute serial offenders
 [Tonkin ICS2]; continuing education workshops for Caribbean Judges and Magistrates on
 implicit bias and procedural justice [Kerrigan]; partnership research with the Guyana Prison
 Service [Ayres & Kerrigan]; a range of global security associations (such as the Security
 Institute and ASIS) [Hopkins]; and research informed continued professional development
 courses on hate crime digitally accessible for free world wide [Allen, Hardy & Chakraborti
 ICS1].

 Research Achievements
 As a group of scholars, we are highly committed to conducting research which shapes
 interventions in the real world. Examples of our policy impact include findings from Hopkins on
 organised crime which fed into the UK government’s Serious Violence Strategy; Tonkin’s work
 which has created programmes for police that process crime linkages (ICS2); and Fitzgibbon’s
 work which has been repeatedly used by the Ministry of Justice within its Offender Personality
 Disorder Pathway Projects in England and Wales. In the area of gender, particularly sexual
 violence, we have achieved significant outcomes: Sleath appeared as an expert witness to the
 UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office International Protocol on the Documentation and
 Investigation of Sexual Violence in Conflict; Smith has pioneered self-evidence kits in sexual
 assaults in low resources environments; and Sanders’ work from the ‘Beyond the Gaze’ ESRC
 funded large project on internet sex work influenced National Police Chief Council policing

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 guidance in 2015 and 2019 and continues to inform annual police training. Funding has recently
 been awarded for activities starting in 2021 for Sleath to assess how Covid-19 impacts on
 sexual assault referral centres (ESRC) and Sanders is part of a multi-country comparative study
 of sexual violence in sex working populations (ESRC).

 In 2014, the unique Centre for Hate Studies (CHS)[ICS1] was established, undertaking
 ambitious, multi-method studies in order to generate evidence-based improvements to policy on
 hate and extremism across the globe. The CHS has been commissioned to undertake major
 research, evaluation and consultancy projects (totalling £577,320) on hate and extremism which
 have substantially enhanced understanding of hate crime amongst a broad range of
 beneficiaries including victims, witnesses, practitioners and policy-makers from different sectors
 (e.g. research projects funded by the Equality and Human Rights Commission, ESRC and Police
 and Crime Commissioners). Moreover, staff at the CHS [Chakraborti, Hardy, Allen] have
 developed and delivered evidence-based training to 2,494 practitioners and policy-makers
 working within criminal justice, education, local authorities, and health and social care across the
 UK. The CHS has designed a new perpetrator programme for Leicestershire Police [Hardy &
 Chakraborti]; influenced new policy developments around disability hate crime with British
 Transport Police, the Scottish Government and private transport companies such as Cross
 Country Trains, East Midlands Railways, First Essex Buses [Wilkin] and fed research findings
 into the UK government’s counter terrorism strategy [Allen].

 Future Ambitions
 Building on our heritage and on the research achievements of the past REF cycle, we have
 developed five strategic goals to shape our vision for 2021-2028:

    1. Sustaining and developing our achievements in interdisciplinarity.
       Priorities include developing our links with other research strengths across the university
       (such as health/mental health/informatics/international security through the Leicester
       Prisons Research Network and the Violence Reduction Information Network) and
       engaging significantly with the international research agenda in order to develop a wider
       portfolio of funders (such as the Global Challenges Research Fund).

    2. Production of internationally significant research and expert scholars.
       Priorities include maintaining the Centre for Hate Studies as a world leading centre,
       developing new leading research centres in policing and prisons at Leicester, and
       fostering global reach, engagement and impact within all our research activities.

    3. Public & community engagement.
       Priorities include the development of our first Public Engagement strategy in 2021, the
       extension of knowledge transfer activities with academic, practitioner and community-
       based audiences, and the dissemination of research evidence through events and
       exhibitions (particularly in the city and region of Leicester) and through national media
       and social media outlets.

    4. Development of transformational impact-led research.
       Priorities include the improved integration of impact strategies alongside the design and
       administration of projects which has co-design, co-delivery and co-implementation with
       stakeholders and users at the core of our research.

    5. Research visibility.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Priorities include making our data and findings more accessible and engaging, employing
        full use of the open access agenda to make our data identifiable, re-usable and relevant
        for other users.

 To assist the School in overseeing both research and research-led teaching efforts, we
 established an Expert Advisory Board in 2020, comprising of senior professional leaders
 (including a Chief Constable, Deputy Mayor, Police and Crime Commissioner and Prison
 Governor) to act as critical friends to inform the delivery of our future ambitions. The Board helps
 us to stay true to our vision of shaping ‘real-world’ outcomes by synthesizing our research
 activities with the priorities of criminal justice stakeholders, and by facilitating the advancement
 of partnerships and collaborations.

 The School is committed to sustaining its open research environment. We have achieved an
 100% open access compliance rate for REF outputs as we continue to strive to ensure that our
 findings and commentary are widely accessible. Individual scholars ensure that briefings,
 executive summaries and non-academic writings and findings are accessible for key
 collaborators and the general public via our various online platforms. Our commitment to diverse
 research methodologies means that we always have plenty of visual materials and media as key
 dissemination tools. Examples of these are found through the Centre for Hate Studies [Allen,
 Hardy & Chakraborti] and the Beyond the Gaze project on the online sex industry [Sanders].

 Criminology follows the University’s robust procedure for ensuring all research is conducted to
 the highest ethical standards, informed by Research England’s Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity (IES, 2.7). All colleagues and students are required to submit research programmes for
 approval to a University Research Ethics and Integrity Committee, which ensures adherence to
 professional standards and legal requirements.

 2. People

 The School has 11 Category A staff, including: three Professors [Chakraborti, Sanders, Smith];
 six Associate Professors/Readers [Allen, Ayres, Fitzgibbon, Hopkins, Tonkin, Sleath] and
 two Lecturers [Davis, Kerrigan]. There have been 4 internal promotions amongst Category A
 staff in the last five years (2 men and 2 women, including promotion to two professorial
 positions). Of the 11 current staff, seven have been appointed during the REF period. There
 have been 9 staff departures due to retirement, new career pathways and life changes.

 These changes have afforded opportunities to implement our strategic vision, to grow and build
 on established scholarship (particularly around prisons, gender & LGBTQ+). We are proud of our
 new career development ethos and practice and the growing number of PGRs. Indeed, 50% of
 our staff have studied at the School at UG and/or PG level and several have been promoted to
 senior positions in recent years [e.g. Ayres, Chakraborti, Fox, Hardy, Sleath]. After REF 2014,
 a Director of Research [Sanders] was appointed to improve research leadership within the unit.
 Strategic decisions to appoint staff since 2018 have enabled us to focus on emergent areas as
 we depart from previous themes. New staff appointments both early and mid-career have
 enabled continued focus on policing [Davies], prisons [Kerrigan] and mental health [Sleath] as
 part of our strategic plan to develop new areas of interdisciplinary research.

 To support staff development across all grades and to foster a nurturing and productive research
 environment, we made positive changes in the last five years, including:


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Prioritised study leave provision for ECRs: this facilitates the development of ideas and
        writing outputs to enable ECRs to fulfil their research potential: Study leave periods (of
        which all FTE staff can apply for every seven semesters) has delivered tangible
        outcomes, particularly for monograph writing (8 published in the past two years). Study
        leave has been provided for 73% of Category A staff, specifically to allow time to prepare
        high quality publications, with a gender balance of 7:1 women/men.

       Increased funding for scholarly activity: the School provides individual resources of £400
        per year for all Category A staff, plus an additional competitive pot to support conference
        attendance, external training and writing retreats. Individuals are supported to arrange
        their own writing retreats to fit in with caring commitments if desired, as well as to make
        use of College and institutional support for this writing space.

       A monthly research seminar series for staff and research students: they present ideas,
        theories and methods along our three core themes, and engage in pitch to peer sessions
        to float research grant ideas. 100% of research-facing staff have presented at these
        sessions and 50% of PGRs.


 Further strategic support is provided to improve written outputs through mentoring on
 publications; strategic study leave planning; resources for delivering intensive impact work; and
 dedicated time for impact case study development explicit in the workload allocation. To boost
 our grant capture and the number of quality outputs, the School has invested in research skills,
 writing quality and writing applications through provision of:

       In-house training on ethics; research methods; data management; impact; publishing;
        data archiving and sharing; and data protection. This is to ensure research integrity is a
        continual CPD area for all researchers in the School.

       Masterclasses on topics including: designing CPD; writing for the media; charitable trust
        engagement; working with philanthropic donors; and theory of change for impact
        planning.

       Externally and internally-delivered leadership programmes (Leadership Excellence;
        VITAL leadership programme; Women Leading with Purpose) available to all staff at
        different stages of their career.

       Expert-led external grant writing training and grant writing retreats; as well as individual
        support/mentoring in medium-large bids from experienced staff.

       Reading group for all staff at pre-submission stage, internal peer review of outputs and
        advice.

       A pre-submission peer review process for journal papers via an expert panel of external
        academics.

       Annual writing retreats to benefit all academic staff in writing pursuits (typically twice a
        year, supporting 8 teaching staff and 3 post-doctoral staff, two thirds of which have gone
        on to complete books).


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers and ‘Professional and Career
 Development’ (Institutional Environment Statement (IES), Section 3.2) is embedded in our staff
 development strategies, support mechanisms and annual review processes. We support ECR
 and new staff through a reduced workload during probation, regular meetings with managers
 and support in accessing resources from the University. In accordance with the Concordat
 objective of enabling researchers to engage in a minimum of 10 days professional development
 per annum, we encourage a wide variety of endeavours, assisted by conference funds and one-
 off requests for financial support. On average, £46.6k of internal funds per Category A staff
 member have been given to support activities over the period. Our focus on staff care in order to
 integrate and promote good mental health and wellbeing is at the heart of many strategies –
 including a transparent workload process.

 We encourage staff with caring commitments to utilize the flexible working strategy and currently
 have seven staff making use of this. We have several examples of creating effective research
 leaders: Hardy completed her undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral studies at the School
 and progressed quickly to Associate Professor before moving on from academia to take up a
 role of Evidence and Evaluation Lead for Leicester OPCC. Similarly, Dr Yeela Lahav-Raz
 studied with Sanders as a post-doctoral student for two years and now holds a senior lecturer
 position at the University of Tel Aviv in Israel. We are dedicated to ensuring all mid-career staff
 enter leadership training programmes (VITAL, Future Leaders, the ILM-accredited Leadership
 Programme, Aurora) and all 9 staff at mid-career level and above have completed this.

 Research Students
 Research students are crucial to the long-term vitality and sustainability of the School and we
 provide excellent support to nurture new research talent. The University supported stipends and
 scholarships to the sum of £256,334 across 9 students during the period. Our commitment to
 developing new researchers is evidenced by the increase in research student numbers – from
 14 registered in 2014 to 28 currently registered. In the same period, the School has achieved 15
 doctoral completions, 9 female and 5 male. This compares to only 5 completions in the entire
 2014 REF period. We have a regular intake of non-UK students into the doctoral cohorts,
 including students from across Europe, North and South America, Africa and Asia, with an
 average of 40% of non-UK students. This ensures cultural diversity amongst our PGR
 community and the internationalization of our research environment.

 All PGRs benefit from monthly supervisions with experts in their research field and they have
 access to experts across the University. We strive to achieve interdisciplinarity through: cross-
 School supervisory team structure (5 of our current PGR cohort); research placements; and
 writing opportunities for students. The PGR community benefits immensely from support
 provided by the University Doctoral College (IES, 3.2) and its outstanding programme of training
 and professional development opportunities. As part of the ESRC Midlands Graduate School
 and M4C, the School benefits from access to competitive awards for scholarships, training and
 events. This institutional provision, coupled with improvements to School processes, has allowed
 for a carefully tailored package of support to be offered over the past 5 years, including:

       The opportunity for all research students to apply for up to £500 per annum from the
        College to present at national and international conferences.

       Professional Development Discussions and peer-mentoring support for graduate
        teaching and research assistants.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Attendance and participation in School Research Seminars with specific opportunities for
        PGRs to present their research. We have on average 6 PGR presentations per annum,
        as well as ad hoc conferences and symposiums initiated by the student body.

       School Postgraduate Research Forum - meetings take place around three times per
        semester and provide an important research forum for PGRs.

 Overall, the School of Criminology has developed an environment which enables research
 students to thrive, and which allows them to become immersed in the wider teaching and
 research culture of the School. This is evidenced by 100% satisfaction with the overall
 experience of their degree programme (PRES, 2020). All PGRs are invited to participate in the
 School research mentoring circles (which include established academics) and in all other School
 research events.

 Of the 28 PGRs registered in the last seven years, just under half (n=13) are self-funded, with
 the remainder being funded through the School, securing funding from a variety of funding
 bodies. There has been substantial institutional support (IES, 3.3) with nine college scholarships
 awarded and one cross-college scholarship. Two international scholarships have been awarded
 by the UoL PGR International Excellence Scholarships in 2017 and 2018 which speaks to our
 strategic aim to increase internationalization and diversity. We currently have one
 Midlands4Cities AHRC studentship which reflects interdisciplinary research synergies across
 departments and expertise. We are flexible in our doctoral study arrangements and we support
 students who are completing PhD studies alongside a professional role by ensuring that caring
 responsibilities and other commitments are not barriers to studying for a doctorate.

 Smith led the €2.9M Interdisciplinary Training and Research Programme for Innovative
 Doctorates in Forensic Science (INTREPID Forensics, EU 2014-18) which provided funding for
 10 PGRs to develop skills in areas such as ethics in the forensic sciences, forensic science
 theory and practice, laws of evidence and forensic science in the criminal courts and working
 with industry to commercialise forensic science innovation. 10 PGRs were co-supervised by
 academics in a wide range of disciplines including Genetics, Criminology, Chemistry,
 Psychology, and Mathematics, and completed a research secondment at various partner
 institutions globally including the University of Lausanne, Switzerland and Penn State (US).

 Onward Trajectory
 Four of our successful PGR cohort secured lecturing positions in UK universities [D’Aniello,
 Bennett, Clarke, Floyd], and two others received postdoctoral awards, including Herrity being
 elected to the Mellon-Kings Cambridge Junior Research Fellowship in Punishment at the
 University of Cambridge. Several have achieved publications during their time as a doctoral
 student with Wilkin and Bennett writing book contracts. Others [Koeppen, Gonclaves] have taken
 jobs working in banking security and forensics. Wilkin has become a global expert in disability
 and hate crime policy, particularly in the area of transport, advising the Cabinet Office and
 Treasury during the Covid-19 pandemic.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Our staffing is balanced in terms of 50/50 gender split, and we currently have 27% of staff from
 BAME heritage. 2/3 professors are women and one is a male with BAME heritage. Across the
 current REF cycle, we have made positive developments in increasing the number of BAME
 staff and have welcomed the University’s BAME PhD scholarship scheme. Our submitted


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outputs represent a 50/50 split across male and female staff and represent all career stages with
 only a small weighting to senior members.

 Staff and students with disabilities, alongside recognition of staff and students with hidden
 disabilities, including mental health needs, are supported through School and University systems
 as well as flexible working policies. To further our work in this area we recently convened a new
 sub staff/student EDI committee focused on disabilities and accessibilities. We also have a
 school BAME subcommittee and a School Commuters subcommittee feeding into the main EDI
 committee.

 We have members of staff across all grades who have taken up leadership service roles within
 the institution, such as the Chair, Race Equality Action Group [Chakraborti], ‘Coaching
 academy coach’ [Fitzgibbon], and Director of the Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies
 [Smith]. Our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion has been acknowledged at
 University-level award ceremonies, with two members of our staff being shortlisted for ‘Equalities
 Champion’ [Barnes & Clarke]. In 2020, Sanders led Leicester as the first university to adopt a
 student sex worker inclusion policy, leading the way in the sector. At a School level, we have an
 Equality and Diversity officer [Kerrigan] who is leading an EDI Committee across research and
 teaching.

 Sustainability
 The School hopes to increase its staff base in the future cycle, with ambitious plans to recruit at
 all levels of career stage. Institutional support for the School is reflected in a physical re-location
 to the heart of campus in 2021, and additional staffing resources to support our research-
 intensive priorities. Professor Chakraborti steps down as Head of School in July 2021, this will
 allow him to provide additional focus to the Centre for Hate Studies, expanding the reach and
 depth of its research programme. We have 10 PGR students under supervision with the Centre
 for Hate Studies which feeds into our wider PGR community, thereby creating a pipeline of new
 scholars to support our ongoing research ambitions. We are committed to applying for a range of
 scholarships such as the University of Leicester BAME scholarship and the Midlands 4 Cities
 scholarships to secure these plans (IES 3.1).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding
 We have grown our external grant capture substantially in the past 7 years, with a total award
 value of £4.2 million – roughly received equally from ESRC, government and other funders. Our
 income from this has been £2.89m compared to £455k in the 2014 cycle. This represents a
 remarkable achievement in what is an increasingly competitive funding environment. Our
 success has been driven by excellent staff and comprehensive training, development and
 research support services provided at the School and wider institutional level (IES, 4.1). Our
 2014 onwards plans to diversify research income strands has paid off.

 Our success can be attributed to the interdisciplinary nature of our research and to the use of
 innovative methodologies to deliver theoretical and applied contributions. As such, our research
 has broad appeal to a range of funders, with funding received, for example, from the EU
 (Horizon 2020); UKRI (ESRC); Leverhulme; National Institute Health Research; British
 Academy. We have been funded through the private sector, charities and foundations (e.g.
 Barrow Cadbury Trust - Allen & Fitzgibbon; Motor Insurers’ Bureau - Hopkins), and


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 philanthropic grants have enabled some excellent work overseas (Smith awarded £450k from
 the Foundation Peace Dialogue of the World Religions and Civil Society for work on DNA sexual
 violence evidence kits in East Africa). We have received grants for specific work with the Home
 Office (Hopkins & Sanders leading the first ever government funded research on corrosive
 crimes) and the Ministry of Justice (Tonkin: evaluating the use of digital technology in prisons; &
 Ayres: evaluating HMP Holme House drug recovery prison), and more recently to support hate
 crime work with the Office for Students, Equality and Human Rights and local authority agencies
 (e.g. Leicester City Council; Police and Crime Commissioners). As part of a £1.2m ESRC grant
 across disciplines (led by History), Kerrigan and Ayres are Co-I’s on prison research in
 partnership with the Guyana Prison Service, to use knowledge of mental health in male prisons
 to reform internal systems.

 Funding diversification has enabled a range of research activities to take place, on a local to
 international scale. Much of this work has direct impact on real life policies and procedures,
 making changes for criminal justice agencies and professionals to enhance their service. For
 example, Smith’s work addressing sexual violence in Kenya has led to the development and
 deployment of 1000 DNA testing kits that are being used to gather evidence from victims of
 sexual assault in Nairobi. Moreover, Smith has consulted with the Kenyan government
 regarding changes to the Kenyan Sexual Offences Act, leading to improvements in the way
 forensic evidence is collected. These commissioned and tendered pieces are often turned into
 academic texts (e.g. Allen 2020, Hopkins et al., 2020).

 Our strategy and support mechanisms ensure that all staff across career stages are encouraged
 to submit grant applications and develop research leadership skills. Over 70% of staff have been
 principal investigator on at least one grant, and 100% have been Co-Is on other grants during
 the past three years. Our positive trajectory is reflected in the average grant capture per FTE
 over this REF cycle being higher (at £221k) than the REF2014 FTE average in Criminology in a
 Russell Group or post-1994 University.

 Infrastructure
 The School has benefitted from block grants secured by the University of Leicester (IES, 2.2),
 such as the Wellcome Trust Institutional Support Fund (WTISSF) and the ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Account, all of which provide resources for impact related work. The ESRC IAA has
 assisted in two-year funding to support three Strategic Partnerships: (i) Wangu Kanja
 Foundation (that works with the victims of sexual violence) and the Directorate of Criminal
 Investigations in Nairobi, to further the work on forensic self-swab kits pioneered by Smith; (ii)
 Violence Reduction Information Network with 5 regional police forces (East Midlands Police and
 Academic Collaborations) [Hopkins & Davis]; and (iii) Midlands Prisons [Tonkin & Ayres]
 exploring mental health issues, outcomes and interventions across five prisons in the region.
 Further grants for impact work have been obtained through the IAA, notably Sanders for a
 programme of outreach to HEIs on the issue of student sex work in 2021-2023. The School
 regularly receives resources to support public engagement and partnership activities across our
 core themes (19/20, £38,800).

 The School has benefited from being awarded internal funding of £474k during this period for
 research projects, impact activities and research support (Prospects Fund, Leicester Institute
 Advanced Studies, Wellcome Infrastructure Fund; International Research Development Fund).
 These funds have often underpinned external grant submissions, publications and other impact
 activities such as network events, knowledge transfer and stakeholder engagement. For
 example, Smith’s interdisciplinary work to find novel solutions to collect evidence following

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sexual violence in low-resource environments began with a £10K Prospects awarded also with
 Professor Mark Jobling in Genetics in 2015. This research led to a publication and an external
 grant from the Humanitarian Innovation Fund of £50K to broaden the scope. From there several
 grants have been successful across the Schools, developing pioneering work as testified in the
 Genetics impact case study. Hopkins secured £4,000 to analyze secondary data from
 Commercial Victimisation datasets to develop a project bid for over £250,000 submitted to the
 ESRC Secondary Data Analysis fund. Sanders secured £15k from the GCRF QR fund to carry
 out a pilot project in Nairobi with an NGO to conduct a needs assessment for service users and
 do the groundwork for a GCRF grant on young people and transitions to work which was
 submitted in 2018 (£485k). This was followed by internal GCRF QR funding (£23k) to work with
 partners around the impact of COVID-19 on sex workers in Nairobi which has produced two
 articles in peer reviewed journals, funding to develop a health care reporting digital platform and
 an ‘uber’ style delivery service on a motorbike for sex workers living in urban dwellings across
 the city.

 The School co-leads an established prisons network, and it is working to establish other similar
 formal networks. Significant support was received both financially over a two-year period
 (£30,000) and practically from the Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies to establish The
 Leicester Prisons Research Network [Tonkin & Ayres]. This is comprised of academics from
 several Schools with the aims of: undertaking timely and impactful interdisciplinary prisons
 research that advances academic knowledge; developing effective, collaborative partnerships
 which ensure genuine and lasting impact beyond the academy; and mentoring future research
 leaders. LIAS has also funded two pandemic related research activities (both receiving £30k
 each) involving Kerrigan, Ayres and Chakraborti.

 The School has received considerable support from internal funds to support impact and
 engagement activities [Tonkin (ICS2), Sanders, Chakraborti (ICS1), Allen & Hardy, Smith],
 with over £70k received over a two-year period to further develop impact activities as well as to
 evaluate activities. On completion of his PhD in 2019, Wilkin received an impact fellowship
 award for 6 months (funded by the ESRC IAA) to develop his work on disability and hate crime
 in the transport sector, with the aim of stimulating change in national and local transport policies
 and procedures, including a campaign to raise awareness of disability hate by Scottish Transport
 and influencing transport policy at Leicestershire/Nottingham/Gloucestershire/Blackpool County
 Council and the British Transport Police. The School has been able to develop its impact work
 because of major benefits in kind from partner agencies; Sanders was able to work with a
 trainer from the partner agency National Ugly Mugs to deliver joint training to over 500 police
 officers and practitioners in 2018/9.

 Facilities
 Excellent facilities and extensive digital resources help to nurture and develop our research
 projects. The David Wilson Library (IES 4.2) facilities support specialist research and underpin
 grant applications. Researchers benefit from personalised training to make full use of the latest
 enabling technologies (devices, software and services) to enhance digital creation, innovation
 and scholarship. The Library also facilitates the use of centrally provided repositories and digital
 services, access to data in a flexible, yet secure environment on and off-site, streamline the
 grant funding application process and generate higher research impact. This approach has
 benefitted a range of high-profile research activities and digital projects, for example: Beyond the
 Gaze ESRC project on online sex work has a Figshare Collection for international access
 [Sanders] which has been accessed 1041 times since 2019.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contributing to Criminology
 As a School we pride ourselves on the how the contribution of our work shapes the research
 base, provides support to the discipline as a whole and encourages high quality peer-reviewed
 publications. Our four impact case studies [one by Sanders is returned to UoA21 and one by
 Smith to UoA5] highlight the calibre of the far-reaching impact of our work in the School. During
 the period, our academics published over 400 papers across journals – such as the British
 Journal of Criminology; Criminology and Criminal Justice; Punishment and Society; Theoretical
 Criminology, Policing and Society, and the European Journal of Criminology. A quarter of our
 PGRs have peer-reviewed publications, and several have joint-authored pieces with members of
 staff. Our academics have also been prolific in publishing research monographs. 6 out of our 11
 FTE have published at least one monograph as has one post-doctoral researcher [Wilkin].

 Our academics are actively involved on editorial boards of leading journals, significantly steering
 the direction of Criminology and allied disciplines. Staff hold 13 editorial positions, in journals
 such as: the British Journal of Criminology; Security Journal; International Journal of Offender
 Therapy and Comparative Criminology; Latin American and Caribbean Ethnic Studies; European
 Journal of Probation; Science and Justice; Policing and Society; Psychology, Crime and Law.
 Staff sit on funder committees internally and externally: including Sanders on the ESRC
 Strategic Advisory Network; Chakraborti as Research Director at the Howard League for Penal
 Reform; and Smith on the GCRF Peer Review College and is the Chair of the Consortium of
 Institutes for Advanced Studies. These activities not only ensure that our academics are able to
 shape the future directions of research, but they also illustrate that the School remains at the
 cutting edge in multiple fields.

 We continue to influence the discipline through our international links in postgraduate research,
 by enabling international scholars to study in the School, and through the external reach of our
 staff. Academics have disseminated their knowledge to postgraduates across the world through
 masterclasses (Fitzgibbon at the University of Newcastle in NSW, Australia; Kerrigan at the
 University of West Indies), overseas viva examinations (Kerrigan at the University of the West
 Indies; Sanders at University of NSW, Australia and Helsinki, Finland; Tonkin at Carleton
 University, Canada). Sanders initiated a postgraduate conference for those doing sex work
 studies in 2007, and she continues to run this, providing a space annually for students to come
 together from across the globe.

 Impact and engagement: collaboration and contribution beyond the academy
 Our School research agenda is designed and co-produced through collaboration effective
 collaborations, networking and partnerships which we have improved markedly in recent years.
 As the map image below makes clear, our practitioner contacts include relationships with
 organisations that are represented in six continents, including law enforcement agencies, prison
 and probation services, charities, healthcare services, government agencies, security services,
 public service providers, industry partners and public bodies.

 International partnerships & collaborations for the School of Criminology, University of Leicester




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Scholars from the School have been the lead on several projects involving beneficiaries:

 - The CHS has submitted evidence to seven hate and extremism-related Government bodies,
 thereby driving greater prioritisation and new directions in national policy. Following
 Chakraborti’s expert witness submission to the Women and Equalities Committee on
 transgender equality in September 2015, 35 recommendations were made including a new
 cross-government strategy, changes to the Equality Act 2010 and initiatives to tackle everyday
 transphobia which the UK Government were mandated to act upon. Furthermore, CHS research
 underpinned the Home Office’s thematic review of current evidence which guided the UK
 Government’s Hate Crime Action Plan.

 - Sanders’ ESRC-funded project, Beyond the Gaze, involved close collaboration with
 marginalized sex workers. Through novel participatory action research methods, sex workers
 were recruited and trained to be co-researchers during the project. This enabled them to be
 actively involved in the research process, generating data and shaping the aims and direction of
 the research themselves (rather than merely participating passively in the research). This has
 led to a range of research outputs, including a film for public engagement, tools and resources
 for practitioners, guidance and safety resources for sex workers (written by sex workers).
 Furthermore, Sanders’ research has transformed the regulation of sex work, both online and
 offline, leading to changes in policy and practice that benefit sex workers across the UK and
 internationally (e.g. Netherlands, Australia and Norway). These changes ensure that sex
 workers are better protected from both physical and mental harm that can arise during their
 work.

 - Closer working relationships with East Midlands police forces are under development through
 the Violence Reduction Information Network (an ESRC IAA Strategic Partnership - Hopkins &
 Davies) in conjunction with academics from Informatics, Psychology, Mathematics and
 Geography. The VRIN is developing a training package: Evaluating Violent Crime Interventions:
 A Beginners Course; and a series of webinars in 2021 Understanding and Preventing Public
 Space Violence.
 - Tonkin is a founding member of the Crime Linkage International Network (C-LINK), which is a
 group of academics and police practitioners from 11 countries, set up with support from the
 Leverhulme Trust to conduct research enhancing the evidence base for crime linkage (ICS2).


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 -Hopkins is building on Home Office funded research on corrosive crime to forge international
 partnerships with Acid Survivors Trust International (ASTI) on an intervention they are
 developing to reduce the carrying and use of acid.

 - The Leicester Prisons Research Network [Tonkin & Ayres] has an excellent track record of
 external grant capture (£2,103,515 awarded since 2016) which has enabled cross-disciplinary
 research to take place; active networks at national and international levels to develop; new
 research ideas to be generated; and established strong external partnerships with Ministry of
 Justice, HM Prison and Probation Service, HM Inspectorate of Prisons and Probation. They
 have delivered a programme of research seminars, skills seminars and knowledge exchange
 events that showcased UoL research to government agencies including: prison governors and
 prison officers, private businesses (e.g. solicitors firms) and academics from a range of national
 and international Universities (e.g. Harvard University, Berkley University, University of
 Johannesburg and the Universities of Cambridge, Birmingham, Sheffield and Southampton).

 Our staff are considered experts in their specific fields and we are regularly asked to be expert
 consultants or witnesses to formal government processes. Examples of selected audiences and
 knowledge transfer of evidence are:

 Consultation/expert witness to:
     International Protocol on the Documentation and Investigation of Sexual Violence in
        Conflict [Sleath]
     The Commission for Countering Extremism [Allen]
     House of Lords Science and Technology Committee [Chakraborti]
     Women and Equalities Committee [Sanders]
     United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre [Kerrigan]
     Home Office’s Economic Crime Survey (ECS), Virtual Reference Group [Hopkins]
     Kenyan Government regarding changes to the Kenyan Sexual Offences Act [Smith]

 Standing committee membership is also a key area of our work, where individuals are invited to
 sit on high-level decision-making committees at a national and regional level. Examples are:
       National Advisory Board for the Institute of Probation [Fitzgibbon]
       West Midlands Police Counter Terror Unit [Allen]
       Member of Cabinet Office ‘What Works Trial Advice Panel’ [Tonkin]
       Ministry of Justice Expert Network [Ayres & Tonkin]
       NPCC Policing Sex Work/Prostitution Advisory Board [Sanders]
       Home Office Commercial Victimization Steering Group [Hopkins]
       Academic Advisor and Committee Member of the College of Policing National First Line
         Supervision Guideline Committee [Davies]
       Crown Prosecution Service Hate Crime External Consultative Group [Chakraborti]

 We have engaged in an extensive range of impact and knowledge exchange activities. These
 include providing evidence to parliamentary/ policy committees and taking up consultancy or
 advisory roles, which our academics have done over 200 times.

 Influence and esteem
 The research environment of the School has enabled early career researchers to move on to
 expert research leadership, as evidenced by accolades for excellent research. Smith was
 awarded ‘Early Career Researcher of the Year’ by the European Association of Psychology and

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Law in 2015 and her research on innovative methods for recovering forensic DNA in cases of
 sexual violence in low-resource environments went on to win the Times Higher Education award
 for Research Project of the Year: Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 2018. We have received
 several accolades for outstanding publications: Fleetwood was the winner of the British Society
 of Criminology Book prize, 2015 Drug Mules: Women in the international cocaine trade;
 Sanders (with colleagues) won the best article 2019 for the Journal of Law and Society from the
 Socio-Legal Studies Association.

 Researchers from the Centre for Hate Studies have won several awards for their work
 (Research and Innovation Award at the National Hate Crime Awards, ‘Best Factual Programme’
 at the British Television Awards, an East Midlands Royal Television Award, the ‘Special Jury
 Award’ at the British Universities Film and Video Council’s Learning on Screen Awards and an
 Award of Excellence at the Canadian Shorts International Film Festival). Our academics make a
 wider contribution to the research base, economy and society through their membership of at
 least 25 professional societies, with several members taking on leadership roles (e.g. BSC
 Critical Criminology network – Ayres). We have staff involved in senior positions through journal
 editing, as described above. We have staff as editors of book series (Kerrigan for Therapeutic
 Cultures for Routledge; Chakraborti for Hate Studies with Palgrave). Council membership is
 also noted providing strategic disciplinary advice (Smith is an Elected Council member for the
 Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences).

 Contribution to the economy and society
 Our impact case studies provide detailed evidence as to how individual projects have led to
 significant changes in policy or processes. We are crafting new case studies for 2028 in relation
 to: corrosive crimes; student sex work; process and investigation of Sexual Assault Referral
 Centres; and reform in the Guyana prison service. As staff dedicated to seeing real world
 change, volunteering for other organizations (usually in advisory or management roles) is
 integrated into our ethos: current engagements include are United National Development
 Program; Howard League for Penal Reform; Black Lives Matter in the Stix; The Human Dignity
 Trust; IARS International Institute; Roots Foundation; Sex Work Research Hub; Chartered
 Society of Forensic Sciences; UK Consortium of Institutes of Advanced Studies; Commissioner
 appointed by the President of Trinidad and Tobago for 2016-2019, overseeing two local
 elections and one national election.

 Academics have been thinking more creatively about the dissemination of their outputs to reach
 non-academic communities. Key to maximizing the reach of the School’s research has been the
 development of an integrated communications strategy, involving:

    -   Creating short films and animations: A series of short films and animations has been
        produced to improve understanding of hate crime in the public sphere, receiving multiple
        awards including ‘Best Factual Programme’ at the British Television Awards, the ‘Special
        Jury Award’ at the British Universities Film and Video Council’s Learning on Screen
        Awards and an Award of Excellence at the Canadian Shorts International Film Festival.
        Collectively, they have been accessed 42,333 times online since 2014, and have been
        shown in schools, colleges and Universities, and used in training by criminal justice
        practitioners around the world particularly Germany, Norway and Canada. As part of the
        Beyond the Gaze project the University provided creative services to develop a 12-
        minute documentary titled Online sex work in the 21st Century which has received over
        200,000 views since June 2018 including 120,000 views on YouTube.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   Hosting exhibitions: exhibitions to encourage public engagement and to educate people
        on various subjects – such as the ‘Let’s Talk About Sexual Violence’ work developed by
        Gunby on the realities of sexual violence. Fitzgibbon has run several photovoice based
        exhibitions showcasing her work with women and young offenders/prisoners. She has
        held public exhibitions in Leicester, Oxford, London, Dublin, Athens, Brussels and
        Dortmund for public practitioners and policy makers to raise awareness of the issues
        facing these populations.

    -   Public engagement events: A positive research culture has been built within the School
        through hosting Scarman lectures to the public (since 2008). Several high-profile
        speakers (such as Professor Kalwant Bhopal; Professor Phil Scraton; Dame Shami
        Chakraborti, Sir Keir Starmer; MP David Lammy, Chief Constable Ian Hopkins) have
        presented at these events. In 2020 we hosted our first online Scarman event on ‘Policing,
        Race and Criminology’, with some1,544 people from 44 different countries signed up.

 Through public engagement our work stimulates interest in academic outputs, and in wider
 debate across criminological themes, accepting invitations at events such as: British Science
 Festival, Brighton 2018; Cheltenham Science Festival 2018; British Academy-funded conference
 on using behavioural science to target prolific criminals Oct 2016; Probation Institute Conference
 London 2018; Ministry of Justice User Voice Conference 2019; Hertfordshire Probation
 Conference 2019; ESRC Festival of Social Science 2018 & 2019.

 The School enjoyed hosting a two-year post-doctoral fellow, Dr Yeela Lahav Raz, funded by the
 Israeli Science Foundation to work with Sanders, and various visiting scholars from a range of
 countries (New Zealand; Canada; Chile; USA; Germany). The School, working closely with the
 Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies, has hosted a one-year Fellowship for Professor Grace
 Wamue Ngare (Kenyatta University, Kenya), working on female genital mutilation, which
 maintains our connections and networks with Kenyan researchers and practitioners. Smith was
 awarded a Rutherford Strategic Partnership Block Grant (funded by BEIS) which brought 3
 international visiting fellows into the Leicester Institute Advanced Studies (from Kenya,
 Bangladesh, and Colombia). The School has benefited from 13 Honorary Fellows with a range
 of skills such as senior police officers, CEOs of criminal justice charities, to eminent academics.
 These Fellows are a highly relevant resource and individuals give their time in the shape of
 mentoring, guest lectures, advisory board membership, peer review, and engaging in co-
 authorship writing projects.

 Conclusion
 We are distinct in our real-world impact and ongoing engagement with partners in the UK and
 across the globe as we deliver interdisciplinary, transformative change for criminal justice
 agencies and their service users. Our significant progress and trajectory since 2014 have led to
 positive impacts on victims, professionals, policy and operational practice. Our internationally
 excellent work in these areas has been underpinned by enhanced infrastructure and leadership
 during the current REF cycle, ensuring greater support for research activities, ambitious
 research endeavours and innovation. The School is looking forward to growth in the coming
 years, both in terms of depth of expertise, influencing the discipline and contributing to change in
 the real world on important criminological quandaries.




                                                                                             Page 16
