Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: Imperial College London

    Unit of Assessment: C-14

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    Overview

    1a. UoA structure and organisation
    Imperial College London is a world leading institution specialising in STEM and Business. This
    submission to UoA 14 concerns the research of five units within the College that are wholly or
    primarily dedicated to Environmental Studies: The Grantham Institute for Climate Change, the
    Centre for Environmental Policy, the MRC Centre for Environmental and Health, and the NIHR
    Health Protection Units for Environmental Exposures and Health and Chemical and Radiation
    Threats and Hazards.
             The College has a strong track record of environmental research, and the environment is
    at the heart of our Academic Strategy (‘The Sustainable Society’). Our environmental
    research takes place in the units included in this submission and in virtually every department in
    the College. This submission does not, therefore, describe the whole of Imperial’s environmental
    research; it does describe the work done by a core of five units for which the environment is the
    primary focus.
             This is Imperial’s first submission to the Geography and Environmental Studies UoA. In
    previous REFs, environmental research has been wholly distributed across the College. Our
    focused approach on this occasion reflects our progress since the last REF and our ambition going
    forward to build on the sense of common purpose – a research environment – amongst a core
    group of trans-disciplinary researchers in environmental science, whilst enabling a larger cohort
    of environmental researchers to continue to be assessed alongside their disciplinary colleagues.
             Together, the five units covered by this submission, coordinated by the Grantham
    Institute, comprise 45.68 FTE REF-submitted academic staff (50 people altogether), with over
    100 post-doctoral researchers, 80 PhD students, and more than 300 Masters students. Our
    research is supported by research councils, business organisations and charitable trusts, with
    external funding over the REF period of £35M.




             The Grantham Institute (Siegert1, Babacan, Gambhir, Hardy, Koberle, Plancherel,
    Rogelj) is one of Imperial College’s seven flagship Global Challenge Institutes (see Imperial’s
    Institutional Environment Statement). Like our other six GCIs, it has a dual role: to nucleate and
    co-ordinate networks of researchers across the College with intersecting interests relevant to
1
    The names of UoA members are shown in italics, throughout.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a Global Challenge, and to co-ordinate the College’s external presence in the area, for example,
 facilitating impact through public affairs and policy work. Founded in 2007 to focus on Climate
 Change, the Grantham’s remit was revised in 2014 to include broad environmental issues. Its
 core funding is from the Grantham Foundation (>£24m, 2007-2024). Over 200 staff in the
 College are formally affiliated to the Grantham Institute (including all staff included in this UoA).
 Its core academic staff all hold joint appointments with other College departments.
           The Centre for Environmental Policy (CEP) (Burgman, ApSimon, Bauen, Castillo,
 Collins, Conway, de Nazelle, Gross, Howe, Kountouris, Mac Dowell, Z. Makuch, K. Makuch,
 Mills, Mumford, Oluleye, Pan, Pandeya, Panoutsou, Potter, Sheate, Singh, Skea, Slade, Staffell,
 Voulvoulis, Woods) is a long-standing (1977) department of the College focused
 on enhancing the College’s unique scientific and technological expertise by placing it in human
 (legal, medical, economic and sociological) contexts. Its interdisciplinary natural and social
 scientists focus on energy and air quality policy, the UN Sustainable Development
 Goals (SDGs) and the management of water, biosecurity and biodiversity. As well as
 undertaking primary research, CEP’s large and well-established MSc programme is a significant
 technology transfer vector for the College’s environmental expertise.
           The MRC Centre for Environmental Health (CEH) (Kelly, Barrat, Barron, Beevers,
 Fuller, Green, Mudway, Ng, Walton, Williams, Wright), was formed in 2009 as a partnership
 between Imperial College and King’s College London (KCL). CEH’s contribution to
 understanding air quality and pollution was reflected in an exceptional third renewal in 2019,
 following which it has been wholly based at Imperial. CEH undertakes research in the fields of
 environment and health, to inform health policy and the understanding of key issues affecting
 our society. The Centre achieves this by bringing together the best researchers from all areas of
 public health, encouraging novel cross-disciplinary approaches, and by providing the highest
 quality training to new and existing researchers in these fields.
           The NIHR Health Protection Unit in Environmental Exposures and Health (EEH)
 (Fecht, Robinson, Laine, Pirani, Suel) (established 2014, renewed 2020) is a collaboration
 between Imperial College, KCL, University of Cambridge and Public Health England. It provides
 a forum for integrated analysis of environment and health risks, using new technologies for
 exposure assessment of the health effects of air pollutants applied to large-scale population
 studies.
           The NIHR Health Protection Unit in Chemical and Radiation Treats and Hazards
 (CRTH) (established 2020, staff as above) is also a collaboration between Imperial College, KCL,
 University of Cambridge and Public Health England. It focuses on radiation and chemicals in the
 environment, including neurotoxins and high toxicity agents and brings together expertise across
 the College including medicine, toxicology and chemistry.
           Each unit is advised on resources, appointments and research directions by a
 Management Committee. The Heads meet regularly to discuss research agendas, grant
 opportunities, staff development and teaching, co-leadership of research networks (described
 below), joint appointments and grant bids. Each unit has a Research Director who coordinates
 bids for external and College strategic funding and oversees each unit’s internal research
 funding schemes.

 Interdisciplinarity
 UoA14 is an intrinsically transdisciplinary community, with academic expertise in, inter
 alia, energy science, epidemiology, public health, toxicology, statistics, climate science, earth
 science, ecology, chemistry, soil science, social science, psychology, economics, and
 law. In addition, the Grantham, as one of the College’s Global Challenge Institutes, facilitates the
 cross-college community of environmental research.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The College’s Research Centres and Networks of Excellence provide additional
 channels for transdisciplinary work, usually with a narrower focus than the Institutes. Staff in
 UoA14 are instrumental in organising and running the following networks:
    • The Network for Excellence in Air Quality, led by de Nazelle, includes 105 staff. It nurtures
       connectivity across College, improves engagement with society and develops frontier
       research in transdisciplinary air quality research.
    • The Behaviour Change in Energy and Environment Policy Research Network of
       Excellence, led by Hanna, Carmichael, van Diemen, Sivakumar, Gilbert, and Mills, has 35
       members and coordinates research, funding bids and policy impact on behavioural change
       focused on sustainability, behavioural modelling, climate change and energy policy.
    • The Ocean Plastics Solutions network, led by Castillo and including 67 members,
       convenes capabilities from engineering and environmental science to develop multi-
       disciplinary transformative research to prevent, reduce and mitigate plastic pollution.
    • The Sustainability through Life Cycle Approaches Network, led by Rack and Mwabonje,
       brings together life cycle research across Imperial College, connecting its 110 members to
       external groups, applying life cycle concepts for sustainable development.

 Research integrity and open research
 The College is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and has adopted the
 Council for Science and Technology's Universal Ethical Code for Scientists (see Imperial’s
 Institutional Environment Statement). The UoA14 units:
     • Provide OA author processing charges;
     • Require staff to post publications on a REF-compliant open-access repository.
     • Strongly encourage placement of data and analysis details on open-access sites such as
          the Centre for Open Science;
     • Participate in research integrity, open science and reproducibility. Vercammen is a
          member of the Imperial College Research Ethics Committee, reviewing all College human
          health-related research and data. Collins leads the UK Reproducibility Network and
          publishes extensively on systematic literature review methods that mitigate publication bias
          and questionable research practices. Burgman is a PI on the $6.9M, two-year SCORE
          project funded by the US Department of Defence, attempting to replicate results of several
          hundred social and psychological science experiments, the most ambitious study of its kind
          outside of medicine.

 1b. Research Strategy

 Research position relative to REF2014
 As noted above, this is the first time Imperial has submitted its environmental studies research to
 the REF. Since 2014, the College has proactively integrated its environmental research,
 consolidating activities and encouraging multi-disciplinarity through the expansion of the
 Grantham and the research networks outlined above. The UoA now has eight continuing
 positions devoted to human dimensions of environmental change, including four social scientists
 appointed since the last REF (Collins, Fecht, Howe, Mills). We have strengthened our capacity
 in air quality, human health and wellbeing, hiring 16 new staff within CEH and CEP. UoA14 has
 four nationally awarded centres: Grantham, CEH, EEH and CRTH.
          Our annual research income in environmental studies (in this UoA) has increased from
 £4.8M in 2014 to £5.7M in 2020.

 Research strategy over the next five years
 The ‘Sustainable Society’ is one of four themes of Imperial’s new Academic Strategy. The units
 included in this UoA play a crucial role as primary researchers, as transdisciplinary co-ordinators
 to allow policy makers and others to access the college’s expertise, and as mediators between

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the STEM and social science communities. We now discuss our existing strengths and future
 research plans under four intersecting themes which together describe the work of this UoA:
        •      Human Dimensions of Environmental Change
        •      Air Quality, Environmental Exposures and Public Health
        •      Climate, Energy Systems and Zero Carbon Transitions
        •      Environmental Systems, Ecosystem Management, Biosecurity and Conservation

 Human Dimensions of Environmental Change

 Human Dimensions brings together social and natural scientists, lawyers and economists working
 on the behavioural, institutional, legal and policy making aspects of environmental change.
 Members have established track records in the environmental social science of mechanisms of
 change and the policies and interventions that promote environmentally sustainable outcomes.
 Over the next five years, this group will strengthen ties with the other research themes through the
 networks, joint grant bids and PhD supervision, and expand research into behavioural, social and
 cultural drivers of zero transitions and sustainable environmental management.
         For example, with British Academy funding, we are exploring how to reconcile sustainable
 development goals with land and livestock management in East African pastoral communities
 (Howe, £116k), while a project supported by Margaret A. Cargill Philanthropies applies diffusion
 of innovation theory to understand why some international conservation initiatives achieve
 exceptionally high rates of adoption (Mills, £199k).
         Our work is strongly linked to stakeholders and policymakers. Howe, for example, works
 closely with the United Nations Environment Management Group, contributing to the International
 Nexus Dialogues on global environmental issues. Mills is a leading participant in the Alliance for
 Conservation Evidence and Sustainability and is advising on the development of Global
 Environmental Fund-8. Mills and colleagues have guided forest restoration by the Brazilian
 Ministry of Environment through the Native Vegetation Protection Law and the National Policy for
 Native Vegetation Recovery.
         UKRI-funded UoA14 research projects (Potter, Mumford) explored the threat to UK tree
 and plant health from invasive pathogens. Current work on achieving the UK Government’s plans
 for woodland expansion to deliver net zero have been characterised by close stakeholder, policy
 involvement and coproduction (Potter). Kountouris and Mills are evaluating fire management
 strategies and their interactions with human behaviour, as part of Imperial’s newly funded
 Leverhulme Wildfire Centre. Potter will lead a four-year programme of applied interdisciplinary
 research through his recent appointment as Ambassador for the UKRI’s Future Treescapes
 programme. The UoA’s plans include design and adoption of sustainable diets and their impacts
 on pastoral farming, work on the relationship between biodiversity and human wellbeing, and the
 SDGs’ role in international policymaking.
         The multidisciplinary Climate Cares team (De Nazelle, Voulvoulis) was established in 2020
 to research psychological responses to climate change. Working with a Young Persons Advisory
 Group from diverse backgrounds across the UK, the team aims to provide individuals,
 communities and healthcare systems with knowledge, tools and resources to become resilient to
 mental health impacts of climate change.

 Air Quality, Environmental Exposures and Human Health

 Our work through CEH, CEP, EEH and CRTH focuses on the health effects of air pollutants,
 toxic chemicals, and radiation. CEH’s ERG operates the London Air Quality Network (LAQN),
 Europe’s largest, most sophisticated regional monitoring network, comprising over 120

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monitoring sites across the city. We evaluate sources of atmospheric pollution and the health
 implications of individual pollutants. These data are key to investigating impacts of policies to
 improve air quality, such as London’s Low Emission Zone.
          In 2018, CEH secured £2.6M from the NIHR to investigate the impact of London’s Ultra
 Low Emission Zone on children’s respiratory health (Mudway, CHILL). In 2019 CEH won several
 large multi-university research bids (award value £2.5M) under the URKI Strategic Priorities Fund
 programme to enhance atmospheric measurement infrastructure (Green, Kelly). We are
 investigating how vehicle pollution affects health (OSCA), developing policy modelling to include
 sensitive groups (APEx, Barratt) and assessing the toxicological and respiratory impacts of air
 quality on human development (DREaM, Mudway). We have been awarded MRC funding (£2.3M)
 to research health effects of the Ultra-Low Emission Zone in London and traffic management
 schemes in other cities, and to investigate biological signatures of air pollution, providing policy
 support for the Greater London Authority, UK Government and WHO. The ERG has also played
 a leading role in a national air quality measurement project (NERC-ClearFlo) and is in the new
 London NERC Doctoral Training Partnership (award £2.7M; details below).
       The Air Quality group has a strong track record in conceptualising and modelling the drivers
 and consequences of air pollution, especially in urban environments in the UK and Europe. The
 EU-funded Physical Activity through Sustainable Transport Approaches (PASTA) project (de
 Nazelle) feeds directly into the WHO’s Health Economic Assessment Tool (HEAT) for walking and
 cycling, used by policy makers internationally to make transport investment decisions. ApSimon’s
 (UKIAM) research over the last three decades has been instrumental in developing air quality
 policies throughout Europe, underpinning, for example, the UNECE’s Gothenburg protocols.
 ApSimon and De Nazelle’s work forms the basis of Case Study 1, outlined below.
          We are building a research agenda around management of public health, especially in
 cities, that accounts for all dimensions of disease, preparedness, urban planning and human
 behaviour. We will integrate these research strands over the next five years into a single strategic
 vision based around tools and policies to transform behaviour and technology to improve health
 outcomes. The Imperial Air Quality Network is developing policy, industrial partnerships and
 research funding, and is engaging stakeholders in planning research, developing proposals,
 disseminating results and implementing policy. For example, it is currently hosting workshops
 involving more than 40 stakeholders from around the UK in creating a new research agenda. This
 builds on the work of CEH, EEH and CRTH, where public engagement in research programmes
 is key features, including a shared Public Oversight Committee and Knowledge Mobilisation post.

 Climate, Energy Systems and Zero Carbon Transitions

 Clean and sustainable energy services underpin the SDGs and our work addresses critical
 barriers and drivers. Our contributions to solutions to the global climate crisis will continue for the
 foreseeable future. Plans include improved understanding of macro-economic impact of net-zero
 transitions, and developing clean growth strategies for industrial, residential, mobility and power
 decarbonisation.
          The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is the world’s most influential
 cross-government organisation devoted to global responses. Skea is co-Chair and Slade is Head
 of Science of the secretariat of Working Group III (Climate Mitigation) (hosted by CEP). Skea
 contributed foundational research on the organisation and incentivisation of transitions to
 sustainable energy, framing subsequent modelling and applied policy analysis. Rogelj’s research
 guided effective mitigation strategies recommended by the IPCC and adopted internationally. His
 work forms the basis of Case Study 2, outlined below. Rogelj is a Lead Author for the IPCC’s

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sixth Assessment. The energy theme’s work will grow over the next five years (CONSTRAIN and
 Paris-REINFORCE: Horizon 2020, total value to Imperial £1.15M Rogelj).
         The group is a core contributor to the UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC), funded by
 the Research Councils since 2004 (total award 2014 - 2019 £13.5M). Skea was founding UKERC
 Director and Gross became Director in 2020. UKERC reviews and analyses, led by Gross, have
 informed the UK’s Climate Change Committee, National Audit Office, National Infrastructure
 Commission, and Parliamentary Committees, as well as international bodies including the
 International Renewable Energy Agency, World Bank and UN.
         Mac Dowell leads research on carbon capture and storage (CCS), greenhouse gas
 removal technologies, and bioenergy with CCS. His work is funded by UKRI, EU, and industrial
 sponsors (details below) and he is currently seconded to the Department of BIES to advise on
 greenhouse gas removal policy. Staffell is developing novel approaches to data provision and
 public access. He leads Power Swarm, a network of 400 academics, industry and government
 power system transformation experts. He developed Electric Insights, an interactive website that
 reports the supply, demand, price and environmental impacts of Britain's electricity, offering open-
 access, near-real time information to the public and policy makers, and Renewables.ninja, which
 provides free data on the power output from wind and solar power plants anywhere in the world.
         Woods, Howells, Diaz-Chavez and Rogelj have strong international reputations in
 sustainable energy system transitions and climate mitigation actions in emerging economies. Their
 work integrates bioenergy, land use, water and energy service provision with a deep
 understanding of technological innovation and societal diffusion. Their transdisciplinary research
 focuses on the need to rapidly decarbonise the energy sector alongside a potentially slower, more
 complex transition in the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use sectors. Woods focuses on the
 evidence and decision support tools for socially acceptable and sustainable technological
 interventions and development pathways. Woods led the Climate Science and Land, Food and
 Bioenergy sector developments in the European Calculator and is science lead for the
 International Climate Fund’s International 2050 Calculator Programme (total value to Imperial
 £1.4M). Howells joined CEP in late 2020 and leads the FCDO’s Climate Compatible Growth
 Program supporting the COP26 team.
         The Grantham is collaborating with the Royal Institution, building on its successful
 Cleantech Accelerator programme (described below), to create a Centre for Climate Change
 Innovation (CCCI) in 2021. The programme is funded for five years (collectively, ~£5M). Partners
 include the European Development Fund, Greater London Authority, HSBC, Arup, Octopus
 Energy and legal firm Slaughter and May. The CCCI’s critical mass of innovators, entrepreneurs,
 researchers, students, policymakers and businesses will innovate in atmospheric greenhouse
 gas removal, urban air quality, climate-adapted agriculture, and low-carbon building, heating,
 manufacturing and transportation.

 Environmental Systems, Ecosystem Management, Biosecurity and Conservation

 The UoA14 environmental systems researchers focus on the interface between environmental
 science, engineering, ecology and public policy. They design pragmatic, context sensitive,
 technical, policy and regulatory innovations. The group has wide-ranging expertise in
 operationalising global SDGs, policy analysis, sustainable agriculture, urban ecology,
 conservation biology, resource management, structured decision-making, scenario development,
 non-market valuation, water policy and pollution management.
        For example, their work has led to improved water management practices and policies in
 Europe (GLOBAQUA, a consortium of 21 European and 2 non-EU partners: Voulvoulis). The

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 group delivered most of the research that underpinned the 2019 EU Water Framework Directive
 and Floods Directive Fitness Check.
          The environmental systems group collaborates extensively with other Departments at
 Imperial, including Civil and Environmental Engineering (the NERC funded CAMELLIA project:
 Collins, award total £4.1M, including £329K to Collins) and Life Sciences and Materials
 Engineering (two NERC research grants awarded to the UoA on emerging contaminants in
 wastewater: Voulvoulis: £812K). The theme hosts strategic research partnerships between
 Imperial and Anglian Water on water challenges, and between Imperial and Veolia on resource
 management and the circular economy. The UoA also led the synthesis of new approaches to
 Maximum Sustainable Yield in EU fisheries (EU MYFISH: Mumford).
          The UoA also focuses on biosecurity, the control of agricultural pests, public health vectors
 and invasive species. Potter and Mumford were UK Tree Health and Biosecurity Taskforce
 members and provided expert advice which shaped the UK Plant Health Risk Register and the
 UK’s approach to plant health. Our UKRI funded project, UNPICK (2018: Potter, Mumford; £516k)
 made a significant contribution to integrating the biophysical and social aspects of plant health risk
 management and messaging in the UK. Our broader contributions to biosecurity risk assessment
 are outlined in Case Study 3, described below. Food security is an ongoing and important topic
 in this theme, and the newly created Rockefeller Conway Centre (£630K to the UoA), is continuing
 this work, outlined in Case Study 4.
          In partnership with the International Plant Protection Convention and the Food and
 Agriculture Organisation, CEP is improving capacity in developing countries to deal with
 biosecurity for market access (Beyond Compliance: FAO £162K, Mumford, Quinlan), training
 regional facilitators in Kenya, Uganda, South Africa, Iraq, Mexico, Dominica, Belize, China and
 Latvia. International guidance involving UoA14 authors on novel disease vector control risk
 assessment (including European Food Safety Authority, WHO) and risk analysis on genetically
 modified mosquitoes (TARGET MALARIA: Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation £1.7M, Mumford)
 are also shaping international approaches to these technologies.
          Primarily funded by the Big Lottery Fund, Open Air Laboratories (OPAL, hosted by CEP,
 £4.3M over the REF period) has been a partnership of universities, charities, schools,
 museums and environmental organisations, led by the Slawson, devoted to developing
 opportunities for people to get closer to their local environments. OPAL’s citizen science has
 contributed to 21 scientific publications. Since 2007, it has involved 22 funded partners across the
 UK. OPAL pioneered ‘Community Scientists’, a network of science educators and researchers
 working directly with the public. It has developed relationships with government, community
 and voluntary organisations, including more than 3,500 schools and 2,800 other organisations.
 Over 1 million people have participated in OPAL environmental programmes. In 2013, the OPAL
 management team was instrumental in establishing the European Citizen Science Association to
 promote knowledge exchange and the development of public monitoring networks across the
 continent. The Secretariat has transferred to the Natural History Museum in Berlin and OPAL
 remains a key member. The UoA’s research in citizen science will continue through Collins, Howe,
 Mills and Burgman.

 1c. Facilitating impact
 Each Organisational Unit and research theme deploys specific strategies to disseminate results
 and influence policy. The units have appointed Enterprise Champions to facilitate engagement
 with business, government and the wider community. CEP, CEH, EEH and CRTH each have
 detailed public engagement strategies, coordinated by the Grantham which regularly publishes
 Policy Briefing Papers and Notes (details below).



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          The Grantham created the COP26 Universities Network of more than 50 UK universities
 and research organisations to assist COP26 by providing climate change evidence, ideas and
 solutions. The Institute provides the secretariat for the network and coordinates policy briefings,
 media and communications strategies. The Institute has links with the COP26 Cabinet Office
 Science Team and Partnership Team, UKRI, the NGO community and civil society.
           Internationally, the Grantham leads Imperial’s involvement in the Global Alliance of
 Universities on Climate (GAUC), committed to advancing climate change solutions through
 research, education, and public outreach. Launched in 2019, GAUC now has 13 member
 institutions in nine countries across six continents. Many members of this UoA also play a leading
 role in other important international environmental initiatives, detailed in Section 4f.
          Members of UoA14 have substantial impacts in many other ways. Apart from the
 contributions to the IPCC by Skea, Slade and Rogelj and to carbon calculators by Woods, Staffell’s
 Electric Insights interactive website has more than 30,000 users each month, and his
 Renewables.ninja tool, used by 520 universities and companies, and 85 national governments,
 recently provided its four millionth simulation. To improve public understanding of the health
 effects of air pollution, CEH developed the LAQN website, which received over 215,000 unique
 visitors in 2019, a year-on-year increase of 30%. Our mobile web site and smartphone apps have
 distributed 400,000 pollution notifications during pollution episodes in 2020.
             UoA staff provided consultancy services on a very broad range of topics. They have
 worked for the World Bank on carbon pricing, the Climate Change Committee on modelling leading
 directly to its report on net-zero emissions, and on net zero transitions for a range of public and
 private sector bodies including the US Department of the Environment, UK BEIS, Total, Exxon,
 Anglo American and Glencore. The UoA’s business and community links are detailed in Section
 4. Consultancies have also included substantial projects for the US Department of Homeland
 Security on improved methods for judgement and reasoning (CREATE: Burgman, $12M) and the
 US Department of Defence on assessing and reproducing the outcomes of social science
 research (SCORE: Burgman, $6.9M).
         The Grantham’s Cleantech Accelerator programme for early-stage start-ups is funded by
 the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, Climate Knowledge and Innovation Centre
 (ClimateKIC) (in which Imperial is a founding partner). Encouraging Early Career Researchers to
 fulfil their entrepreneurial ambitions, the Accelerator provides a supportive environment where
 ideas can be formed, tested and turned into companies at Technology Readiness Level 3,
 enabling them to secure funds and scale their business.
         The Accelerator launched 60 companies in the REF period, which were awarded a total of
 $300M from venture capital, business and philanthropic sources. Examples include Ooho (plastic-
 free water capsules), Oorja (sustainable electricity solutions for remote Indian communities), and
 Chrysalix (transforming waste wood into fuels, new materials and chemical produ cts).

 2. People

 Our priority is to attract and retain academics who are, or who have the potential to become,
 international research leaders and to provide them with the best possible environment for their
 research and teaching. Staff in the UoA are supported by reduced teaching and administration
 loads for Early Career Researchers (ECRs), mentoring, and flexible work options. ECRs
 undertake three years’ probation (with a formal mid-term review). Staff have access to extensive
 support for grant applications including reviews and mentoring from senior staff, mock interview
 panels, and interview coaching as appropriate.

 Appointments

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment strategies have been made more inclusive by reviewing essential requirements for
 roles, revising advertisements using Textio and eliminating leading phrases such as “world-
 leading” which discourage women. We list all roles on Diversity Job Site, and advertise flexible
 working, encouraging under-represented groups and those returning from career breaks.
           This approach is effective; the composition of the Grantham, CEP and CEH has changed
 over the REF period from 18% women in 2014 to 33% women in 2020, including a change in
 senior positions (Reader and Professor) from 12% women in 2014 to 26% women in 2020.
          Each new staff member is assigned a mentor who provides support and guidance in grant
  writing, research strategy, publication strategy, and supervision. As part of this, we encourage
  and support research staff to attract high-quality research fellows. The outcome of this is that the
  UoA has been awarded the following fellowships during the REF period:
       • Imperial College Research Fellows: Oluleye, Singh, Pendeya, Pan, Babacan.
       • MRC Centre Early Career Fellow: Laine
       • UKRI Rutherford Innovation Fellow: Wright
       • Health Data Research UK Fellow: Suel
       • UK Intelligence Community Postdoctoral Fellow: Ng
       • UKRI Future Leaders Fellow: Robinson
       • Royal Society Newton International Fellow: Chiaravalloti,
 Fellowships awarded to UoA14 staff include Haigh (a NERC Fellowship for a thermodynamic view
 of ocean warming (£733k)), Skea (an EPSRC Energy Strategy Fellowship (£2.5M)), Collins (a
 NERC Knowledge Exchange Fellowship (£294k)) and Plancherel (a NERC independent research
 fellowship).
           Recruitment for continuing positions involves open seminars, individual one-to-one
 meetings with staff, and a representative interview panel trained in equality, diversity and inclusion.
 Panels also involve academically elected College Consuls, Professors from other Departments,
 and for Reader/Professor appointments, external Professors. All Department-funded Category-A
 appointments are permanent, except where the appointment replaces a permanent staff member
 on secondment.
           Considerable thought is given to staff numbers in each organisational unit and theme.
  Roles and priorities are discussed in management committees and staff meetings. Position
  descriptions are circulated for comment to all staff. The levels of appointments account for new
  research developments and impact pathways. Recent hires have focused on interdisciplinary
  research. With our demographic profile (20% professors) we generally recruit Lecturers or Senior
  Lecturers (13 of 18 permanent academic hires in the UoA over the REF period were L/SL), to
  ensure a balanced pipeline for succession.
           UoA14 implemented a policy in 2018 to interview all applicants for academic positions who
  fulfil the advertised criteria and satisfy ‘protected’ characteristics related to disability, ethnicity,
  culture and gender, to ensure diverse and representative sets of applicants.
           To enhance inter-Department and interdisciplinary interactions and synergies, the
  Grantham offers three-year academic appointments that are jointly agreed by the Institute and an
  Imperial Department. After three years, appointees transfer to their host academic Department.
  Departments benefit from staff members with interests in climate change and extensive and
  connected affiliates network who continue to work across disciplines and organisational
  boundaries. Rogerj will join CEP from the Grantham in 2021 as a result of this unique
  collaboration.

 Promotions
 In the UoA during the REF period since 2014, 19 academic (teaching and research) staff were
 promoted, four to Professor, five to Reader and 10 to Senior Lecturer. Nominations for promotion

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in each organisational unit are overseen by a Promotions Committee that represents the unit in
 terms of gender and career stage, and as far as possible includes people with diverse social and
 cultural backgrounds, and academic focuses. All Committee members have unconscious bias
 training. They consider all pre-professorial staff for promotion every year. Staff may also self-
 nominate.
         Interviews are mandatory for promotion to Reader and Professor. All applicants are offered
 mock interviews and provided with feedback. In addition to oversight by the Promotions
 Committee, UoA14 unit heads each meet annually with each staff member for whom they are
 responsible, for Personal Review and Development Plan (PRDP) discussions covering teaching,
 research, impact, internal contributions and career development. This ensures that unit heads
 understand the needs of each individual and research group and are involved in staff development
 and succession planning. These meetings facilitate active staff feedback and constructive
 dialogue.

 Staff development and research support
 Each organisational unit has a Workload Model that accounts for teaching, research and
 administration (e.g., committee participation, outreach activities and professional contributions).
 We consider career stage, student pastoral duties, staff mentoring, diversity activities, caring
 responsibilities and maternity leave. Over the REF period, we reduced the administrative on
 research staff; we reviewed research support and in 2017, appointed two new professional staff
 to manage graduate admissions, student administration, and materials for curriculum
 development.
       Of the 50 REF-eligible staff in the UoA, nine are on fixed term contracts, of whom four are
 female. Eight are research fellows and one a fixed-term lecturer (Collins), replacing a staff
 member on secondment (Slade). The UoA supports fixed-term appointees with research
 mentorship, detailed career planning conducted in each annual review, interview preparation,
 and grant application mentoring and review.
       The Research Directors facilitate widespread research engagement and consultation,
 appropriate working groups/committees and research planning days. They also support academic
 staff in identifying, developing, organising, publicising and managing large-scale research grant
 applications. This may include multi-group initiatives (including external academic and industrial
 partners).
       New research opportunities are distributed to staff by email, staff meetings and newsletters.
 Proposals are submitted to Research and unit heads for preliminary assessment and advice.
 Proposal drafts are reviewed by UoA colleagues and mentors. The Research Directors make
 specific recommendations and suggest others in the Department (and elsewhere) to enhance the
 proposals. SharePoint provides a repository of a representative selection grant applications,
 available to staff in the UoA to provide guidance/support.
        All staff undertake professional development. Training activities are reviewed annually
 during PRDP discussions. Over the REF period, six UoA academic and research staff (four women
 and two men) attended the College’s Academic Leadership Programme. A total of 17 staff (15
 women and two men) participated in communications training, 31 (11 women and 20 men) in
 management training and 38 (23 women and 15 men) in teaching and assessment courses.

 Recognition and reward for research and impact
 The UoA is devoted to translating science into policy. We are strongly proactive in recognizing
 and rewarding excellence in research and impact. World-class research output and impact are
 necessary criteria for all academic appointments (32 appointments over REF period) and


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promotions (19). Outstanding research and impact are also rewarded with merit pay increases,
 Faculty Excellence Awards and the College President’s Awards. Individual UoA members have
 been recognized by the College for outstanding research and impact over the REF, including:
    • van Sebille, President's Award for Societal Engagement, 2016
    • Slawson and OPAL, President's Award for Societal Engagement, 2017
    • K. Makuch: President's Award for Research Supervision, 2018
    • Staffell: President’s Award for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, 2019

 Facilitating exchanges between academia and business, industry and public and third
 sector bodies
 It is an essential strategy of the UoA to encourage exchanges with other sectors to drive impact,
 fill gaps in the UoA’s research profile, enhance new research directions, create synergies, and
 support ECRs. Research fellows have joined us from many institutions including the Climate
 Change Committee secretariat, Ofgem, the Chinese Energy Research Institute and HSBC.
 Honorary staff have included Hart (Director, E4Tech), Oraee (Jovein Cement Plc. CEO), Waage
 (Director, London International Development Centre), Wade (Chief Strategic Advisor, Association
 for Decentralised Energy) and Morrison (Economist, FAO). They have initiated research
 collaborations, written papers, supervised theses and developed grant submissions.
        Importantly, external partners participate in many MSc research projects. In the MSc in
 Environmental Technology, 284 projects have been sponsored and supervised by external
 industry partners over the REF period, and 249 have involved placements. Similarly, the current
 CCMF Masters cohort undertook internships in over 40 organisations, many leading to full time
 employment positions. External speakers, including many programme alumni, are scheduled
 weekly in all Masters programmes. Extra-curricular initiatives, such as the Responsible Investment
 Imperial group and Green Minds, sustain beneficial impacts of the MSc students on our wider
 communities.
        CEH’s Sustainability Working Group was established in 2020 after the first CEH
 Sustainability Workshop. Comprising CEH students and staff, its mission is to promote sustainable
 transitions in the College and more widely. The Working Group leadership includes four CEH-
 based PhD students from the UoA.

 2b. Research students

 Recruitment and selection
 Over the REF period since 2014, the UoA enrolled 129 PhD students, appointed from a total of
 694 applicants (approximately 84% from overseas, reflecting the UoA’s global reputation and
 reach). Presently, 81 PhD students are registered and supervised in the UoA, including 71 in
 CEP and 10 in CEH, EEH and CRTH. There are currently 76 PhD students “core-funded” or
 “affiliated” with the MRC Centre, EEH and CRTH. Together, we have maintained an average
 intake of about 30 new PhD students annually over the census period.
         The UoA’s five organisational units recruit high-quality students internationally from
 diverse geographic and cultural backgrounds, advertising through social media, alumni
 networks, open days and Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT). Individual research groups
 welcome potential student visitors. Our MSc programmes are an important pipeline for aspiring
 doctoral candidates; 18% of PhD students at CEP previously completed the MSc in
 Environmental Technology.
           PhD applicants are interviewed by at least two academics and ranked by the Postgraduate
 Committees and/or CDT committees on the basis of academic merit, eligibility, skills, and
 alignment with the College’s policy on EDI. Exceptional candidates are nominated for the College’s

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prestigious Imperial President’s Scholarships. The UoA secured six of these during the REF
 period.
      The College’s NERC-funded Scientific Solutions for a Changing Planet Doctoral Training
 Partnership, managed by the Grantham, began in 2014 (with 15 students per year) and was
 renewed in 2019 (with 14 students each year for five further years). The programme is enhanced
 by externally funded ‘aligned’ students, which commonly doubles its size (in 2019 the new cohort
 was 34). Nearly half of the students are supported by industry CASE scholarships. Currently, 115
 students are actively enrolled, of which 47 are female and 68 are male. A total of 178 students
 have been enrolled in the SSCP DTP to date (registered in their home departments).

 PG training, support and development
 The Directors of Postgraduate Studies provide PG support, augmented by Senior Tutors and
 Women’s Tutors, who oversee PhD and Masters student wellbeing. All new lecturers take the
 College’s PhD supervision course. Inexperienced supervisors are assigned an experienced co-
 supervisor who assists in student selection and supervision. Other support is described under the
 EDI outline below. If supervisory issues are identified by the Postgraduate Coordinator, the UoA
 arranges specialist training. The UoA also runs annual supervision refresher programs and staff
 are required to participate at least every third year.
       A comprehensive monitoring system is used to identify potential problems at an early stage,
 provide support and monitor progress. All PhD students submit a Research Plan at three months,
 followed by a major review, the Early Stage Assessment, at nine months where they are examined
 in person by an independent academic who provides detailed independent feedback. Students
 also report on their progress and relationship with their supervisor at 6 month intervals. Students
 are assessed again when they submit a Late Stage Report after 24 months. Any issues are
 followed up by the Director of PG Studies, who may consult the Department or Faculty Tutors.
       Other support mechanisms include PG student representation on teaching, research and
 strategic operational committees, giving them a voice in all aspects of the UoA’s management. All
 PhD students receive an annual research support allowance of at least £1k. To develop core
 interdisciplinary skills, students are encouraged to become affiliates with at least one other
 research initiative including the Grantham SSCP DTP, London Interdisciplinary Social Science
 (LISS) DTP, Leverhulme Wildfire Centre or the Imperial College Transition to Zero Pollution.
       The primary sources of career support for PhD students are their supervisors and a mentor
 who is independent of the supervisor. The Careers Service also offers coaching and organises
 career events. Additionally, each organisational unit within the UoA provides specialised career
 advice. For example, CEP’s Careers Advisor, Sheate, runs individual and group sessions and a
 mentoring scheme, matching students with experienced alumni with whom they can discuss
 career development, job seeking and networking.
       Our PhD students complete the Graduate School’s Professional Development Programme
 tailored to their specific needs and interests, where they select from 50+ courses on topics
 including Research Communication, Business Skills and Research Integrity. Over the REF period,
 our PhD students took part in over 500 training sessions, taking an average of more than two
 courses per year. In addition, the Grantham programme integrates four two-day workshops
 delivered by academics and external organisations in areas that address key skills shortages in
 the environmental sector. To promote cross-disciplinary training, students engage in team
 challenges and work with business and policy-makers to develop skills to communicate and apply
 science to inform decision-making in business and policy. SSCP DTP students also work on
 Grantham Briefing Papers through paid internships, enabling them to gain skills in communicating
 science to different audiences,

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         The UoA’s commitment to training extends to PhD studentships in partnership with UK and
 international governments, industry, and national-level initiatives. Since 2014, ten CASE, iCASE,
 and other studentships were funded by companies including Total, E&P UK Limited, Veolia, Cosia,
 Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technical Development and the Chia Meei Food
 Industrial Corporation. Seventeen overseas governmental bodies have accessed the environment
 research and training capacity in the CEP funding 30 PhD scholarships. The UoA supports PhD
 internships and partners have included EcoHealth Alliance (New York), Defra, BEIS, E3G, the UK
 Committee on Climate Change, National Informatics Institute (Tokyo) and the World
 Meteorological Organization.
         Each organisational unit hosts a local seminar series that complements the Grantham
 Seminar Series and formal course offerings. All PhD students and academic staff are expected to
 attend. Presentations are given by invited and visiting academics, UoA14 and Imperial academics,
 and PhD students. High-profile speakers are listed in Section 4.
         All units in the UoA host annual PhD symposia including poster sessions and spoken
 presentations. The best presentations are awarded prizes and are selected for presentations at
 annual Faculty Showcase events.
         The CEH, EEH and CRTH Researchers’ Society is run by early-career researchers and
 promotes welfare and career development, building a collaborative and engaged community. All
 CEH, EEH and CRTH PhD students, research and technical staff are Society members. At CEH,
 EEH and CRTH all PhD students take part in a bespoke, multidisciplinary Joint Training
 Programme, alongside our College programmes and those offered by Public Health England,
 King’s College London and the University of Cambridge’s MRC Toxicology Unit.

 2c. Equality, diversity and inclusion
 All organisational units are committed to championing a university environment where all students,
 staff and visitors are treated with respect, consideration and courtesy and are safe and supported.
 All units within the UoA have EDI committees with diverse representation (based on gender and
 culture, and including academics, research fellows, postdoctoral researchers, PhDs, MSc students
 and support staff). The committees develop and implement EDI initiatives. EDI is a standing
 agenda item at staff and management committee meetings. Each unit in the UoA has a workload
 model to ensure the equitable allocation of tasks.
          CEP was awarded Athena SWAN bronze status in 2019 and is currently working towards
 its Silver Award in 2023. CEH, EEH and CRTH are within the School of Public Health, which was
 also awarded a Bronze Athena SWAN Award in 2019. Women@Imperial Week is an annual
 cross-College celebration and UoA staff are enthusiastic participants. A ‘Women in CEP’ web
 page was launched in 2019 to raise the visibility of female staff and promote female role models.
 All UoA14 seminar series ensure balanced speaker representation. Many members of staff are
 members or allies of Imperial 600, Imperial’s LGBTQ+ community. Participation is encouraged in
 staff meetings and unit newsletters. Imperial became a member of the Race Equality Charter
 (REC) in 2018 and staff in the UoA are members of the Self-Assessment Team that leads
 initiatives for race equality.
           Our comprehensive induction programme for new staff covers the College’s policies on
 sexual harassment, bullying, discrimination, unconscious bias and bystander training, as well as
 their implementation within each unit, and our expectations of staff behaviour in this regard. As
 noted above, to support equality in recruitment and at work, all staff undertake unconscious bias
 training and the UoA ensures balanced interviewing and examination panels. For support from
 outside the immediate department, the Student Support Zone, Disability Advisory Service and
 Student Counselling Service offer confidential and tailored support to deal with anxiety, finances,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 harassment, bullying and sexual violence. Staff are encouraged to speak up anonymously via
 the Faculty “Have Your Say” hotline.
         Imperial College has on-site prayer rooms and all units in the UoA accommodate requests
 for flexible working by students and staff, for example, for religious observance or caring
 responsibilities. All facilities are compliant safe refuges and support evacuation access lifts for
 wheelchair users and others with movement impairment.

 EDI in staff recruitment:
 Over the REF period, all units of this UoA have actively encouraged women and other under-
 represented groups to apply for all positions. As noted above, our proactive recruitment
 programme includes appropriate advertisements and listing strategies that encourage people from
 diverse social and cultural backgrounds, and flexible working policies to accommodate caring
 responsibilities and religious needs.
       Further actions to raise the number of women and other under-represented groups at higher
 levels include promotion, training and guidance on teaching, mentorship in developing grant
 applications, and targeted recruitment. Flexible working (both formal and informal) is available to
 all staff in the UoA, most of whom have taken it up in some form over the REF period. Since
 January 2018, the majority of UoA meetings, workshops and seminars are during the Athena
 SWAN recommended core hours of 10am-4pm, to accommodate caring responsibilities. The UoA
 has created guidance documents for staff and students outlining support for those who experience
 bullying, sexual harassment or discrimination. Howe is a member of the Imperial College FoNS
 Diversity and Equality Committee. Green and Cherni are Members of the Athena SWAN Self-
 Assessment Team. Burgman is one of the College’s five Sexual Violence Liaison Officers.

 EDI with respect to research students:
 Overall, Imperial College has approximately equal numbers of male and female Masters and PhD
 students and this is reflected in our current cohorts across each of the UoA units: 50% female
 students at CEP and CEH, EEH and CRTH. CEP’s environmental master’s program is composed
 of approximately 56% women (average since 2014). The Grantham’s Climate Finance Masters
 currently has 57% women. We also recruit actively on social media in a range of countries,
 targeting excellent universities from a range of cultural settings in China, Europe, India, south-east
 Asia, North, Central and South America. Currently, our programs have about 50% international
 students.
           As noted above, PhD applicants are interviewed by at least two academic staff and ranked
 by the Postgraduate Committees and/or CDT committees on the basis of academic merit,
 eligibility, skills, and alignment with the College’s Equity policy.
           We support flexible working hours for students and timetable lectures between 10 am and
 4 pm, as much as possible. The UoA follows national guidelines for maternity, paternity, shared
 parental, adoption and illness leave. Full support and advice are available to students, and
 studentships are extended accordingly, so that progression is unaffected. A total of 21 PhD
 students took interruption of studies between 2014-20 and 29 in the SSCP DPT, including three
 on paternity leave, one on maternity leave, 13 health-related interruptions and nine internships.

 Maternity/paternity/adoption support
 During the REF period, three women staff members have been awarded Imperial’s Elsie
 Widdowson Fellowships which support academic staff to concentrate fully on their research upon
 returning from leave by granting relief of teaching and administration for 12 months. CEP has
 implemented a Maternity, Paternity, Shared Parental, Adoption and Parental Leave Policy and


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Check List, providing support that goes beyond the College’s parental leave policy. It includes
 specific actions for line managers to ensure understanding and communication and includes ante-
 natal care support, annual leave, keep in touch days, where to find information about childcare,
 and breast-feeding facilities as well as agreements on communication. These policies are being
 rolled out across the UoA.
         Each unit in this UoA monitors and reviews academic career pathways for women,
 including bespoke Equality and Appraisal training events and staff workshops each year to raise
 awareness of the support available for maternity, paternity and adoption leave.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. Research income
 Over the REF period, the UoA has received a total of £35M in research income, an 18% increase
 in annual research volume (from £4.8M in 2014 to £5.7M 2020) over the REF period. This includes
 £7.8M from UK Government, £8.9M from UK Research Councils, £6.5M from the EU Commission,
 £3.4M from non-UK Charities, £2.4M from industry partners, and £9.5M from other sources.
       Growth has been driven by a 63% increase in European funding (from £735k/year in 2014
 to £1.2M in 2020), a 177% increase in average annual Research Council funding (from £733k/year
 to £2.0M /year), a 66% increase in industrial funding (from £367k/year to £609k), and a 24%
 increase in UK Government funding (from £986k/year to £1.2M). Highlights are outlined below.
        The increase in our research volume over the REF period reflects a balanced portfolio of
 smaller responsive grants alongside Fellowships and larger-scale grants. In the UoA, the number
 of consultancies per year has grown from 13 in 2013 to 38 in 2020, with gross value increasing
 from £87k in 2013 to £599k, in 2020.

 Major projects / highlights (total awards=>£200k)

 UK Research Councils
 EPSRC
    • £3.0M to Co-Chair Working Group III (Mitigation) of the IPCC (Skea).
    • £2.6M by for UK Energy Research Centre- Phase 3 and Phase 4 (Gross)
    • £2.1M for the UK-India Joint Virtual Clean Energy Centre (Nelson)
 BBSRC
    • £670k for work on the Social Amplification of plant health risks (Potter)
 NERC
    • £1.7M for optimisation of Greenhouse Gas Removal (Mac Dowell)
    • £529k for antimicrobial manufacturing waste in Puducherry and Chennai (Voulvoulis)
    • £525k for the role of Ambassador the UK Future Treescapes Programme (Potter)
    • £486k from UKCEH to develop national air pollution control strategies (ApSimon)
 MRC
    • £3.0M, MRC Centre for Environment and Health (Elliott [UoA2], Kelly 2019)
    • £2.5M, MRC Centre for Environment and Health (Elliott, Kelly 2014)
    • £2.2M, MRC Health Effects of Ultra Low Emission Zone (Elliott, Kelly)

 Industrial
    • £1.7M, Shell Global (Mac Dowell)
    • £611k, Anglian Water (Voulvoulis)
    • £352k, Total UK Limited (Mac Dowell)
    • £241k, Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance Inc, (Mac Dowell, Hallett)
    • £230k, Standard Chartered Bank (Koberle)

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   £229k, Shell Global (Woods)

 UK Government
    • £8.0M NIHR, for EEH and CRTH (Kelly, Elliott [UoA2])
    • £4.3M for OPen Air Laboratories (Davies, Slawson)
    • £2.7M for Working Group III, IPCC 6th Assessment Report (Skea)
    • £1.5M Department for International Development (UK) (Conway)
    • £518k Defra, for DROPSA (Mumford)

 EU Commission
    • £1.4M from CEC for NEGEM (Mac Dowell)
    • £1.2M EU for EU bioeconomy consortium projects (Panoutsou)
    • £746k Horizon for EU Calculator 2020 (Woods)
    • £647k EU for GLOBAQUA (Voulvoulis)
    • £644k from CEC for COMETHA (Bauen)
    • £611k from CEC for EMPHASIS (Mumford)

 Charities
    • £1.8M Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for Target Malaria Phase II (Mumford)
    • £811k Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for Agriculture Impact (Conway)
    • £630k Rockefeller Foundation Rockefeller Conway Centre (Conway)
    • £200k World Wildlife Fund (USA) for Alliance for Conservation Evidence and Sustainability
        (Mills)

 3b. Strategies for generating research income
 We will grow our interdisciplinary research, particularly through the research networks described
 above, supported by numerous links and research collaborations between departments and with
 other institutions nationally and internationally.
        The Research Office distributes information of research opportunities almost daily and the
 Research Directors in each UoA unit identify and encourage staff to discuss options and develop
 coordinated bids. The arrival of Kelly’s air quality group in CEH creates new opportunities and
 synergies with CEP’s air pollution research group and the College’s air pollution research network.
        We will also grow engagement and strategic collaborations with industrial partners. We
 have ongoing relationships with Shell, BP, Total, Anglo American, Glencore, Anglian Water and
 Veolia and key industry groups (CCSA, UKWIR). We are a member of leading research centres
 (UKCCSRC, Supergen) with convening power to shape the research agenda, and we collaborate
 with many with NGOs (including Bellona, The Nature Conservancy and WWF). We network
 extensively in the EU contribute to many H2020 projects. Finally, we engage directly with research
 councils (MRC, NERC, EPSRC) to shape the research agenda in our areas.

 3c. Infrastructure and support
 Imperial College invested £5.5M in new laboratories on the White City campus to support Kelly
 and the ERG’s move to Imperial, the renewal of the CEH and the award of EEH and CRTH. A
 £5M reconfiguration of the South Kensington Campus Library Building houses six CDTs, including
 students from UoA14. Over the REF period, the College also spent £6.1M to convert Weeks Hall
 to accommodate CEP, with the Centre occupying the new space in February 2018.
      The UoA makes extensive use of Imperial’s Research Computing Service (RCS), which
 supports machines that host large-scale, parallel computing jobs requiring up to 15,000
 processors. In 2020 the MRC under its World Class Labs Capital Funding initiative awarded a
 £400k infrastructure grant to support computing in CEH. We are now the leading university in the

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UK in terms of Internet connectivity, facilitating large scale, rapid data transfer with other UK,
 European and international research establishments, supporting research collaboration with
 external academic and commercial partners. Over this REF period Imperial also established a new
 data centre facility dedicated to research computing. The College invests £3m annually in research
 computing at all levels.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  In keeping with our international outlook and emphasis on multidisciplinarity, Imperial’s research
 is highly collaborative. Of UoA14’s submitted outputs, 48% are collaborations with other UK
 institutions, and 63% are international collaborations. A total of 76% of the outputs include non-
 Imperial collaborators. Of the 50 submitted staff, 82% have held grants with external partners from
 96 institutions in 22 countries.

 4a/b. Support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships and engagement
 with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 UoA academics contribute evidence and solutions to many environmental challenges with
 government and industry decision-makers and community audiences; examples are documented
 below. The research networks described above are a core element the UoA’s strategy for research
 collaboration, supported largely by resources from Imperial and the UoA. The Grantham Research
 Fellowship programme also contributes to our international research.
         A key engagement strategy is our public lecture series featuring, during the REF period,
 high-profile speakers including:
      • Yolanda Kakabadse, former President WWF, former President of the World Conservation
         Union (IUCN) and former Minister of Environment for the Republic of Ecuador.
      • Al Gore, former Vice President of the United States.
      • His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco.
      • Mary Robinson, President of the Mary Robinson Foundation - Climate Justice and former
         Irish president.
      • Paul Polman, CEO of Unilever and Chairman of the World Business Council for
         Sustainable Development.
      • Christiana Figueres, Executive Secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate
         Change.
      • Judy Ling Wong CBE, Honorary President of the Black Environment Network, Founding
         Trustee of the National Park City Foundation.
      • Dr Fatih Birol, Chief Economist of the International Energy Agency.
      • Dr Ernest Moniz, United States Secretary of Energy.
      • Professor Dame Sally Davies, Chief Medical Officer
      • Professor Sir Mark Walport, Chief Scientific Adviser
         The Grantham reaches an extensive external network of policy-makers and other
 audiences through its weekly newsletter (c. 7,500 subscribers), social media (c. 10,000 Twitter
 followers), and direct engagement. For example, we are members of the Aldersgate Group
 (business alliance) and the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Climate Change.
         The UoA supports its researchers in a range of public engagement activities and
 organises events that showcase its research as a whole. CEH’s public engagement strategy is
 led by the MRC Centre, EEH and CRTH joint Public and Community Involvement Engagement
 and Participation Committee and coordinated by Mudway. The Committee is supported by public
 engagement officers in EEH and CRTH, with advice from the Public and Community Oversight
 Group composed of members of the public and occupational, patient and community groups.
 CEP’s engagement strategy is led by de Nazelle, one of Imperial’s societal engagement



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 champions. As UK STEM Ambassador, EEH’s Ng mentors and inspires young people to take
 STEM subjects.

 4c/d. Wider contributions to the economy and society, and engagement with diverse
 communities and publics
 As noted above, the Grantham regularly publishes Policy Briefing Papers and Notes,
 communicated in face-to-face workshops and symposia and distributed to hundreds of policy
 makers, industry leaders and community groups. They directly influence many policy initiatives
 nationally and internationally. For example, the paper on Society-led Low Carbon Transformation
 (2017) was presented to the Smart Energy GB All-Party Parliamentary Group. The paper on The
 Arctic and the UK (2020) was incorporated in the 2019 Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting and
 was a core element in the design of the UK’s new Arctic Strategy. Grantham Papers and Notes
 have been viewed and downloaded tens of thousands of times. All Grantham events and panel
 discussions are available on its YouTube channel.
         We contribute to the economy, society and broader community in literally hundreds of
 ways, reflecting personal commitments to public health and the environment. Some of the more
 high-profile commitments are listed below, a small proportion of the total:
     • Chair, Scotland’s Just Transitions Committee: Skea
     • Chair, Great Britain Non-native Species Risk Analysis Panel, 2007 – 2020: Mumford
     • Chair, Executive Body of the UNECE Convention on Long Range Transboundary Air
         Pollution (CLRTAP): Williams
     • Chair and Council Member, Energy Advisory Panel, Energy Institute: Gross
     • Chair, Biomass Supply, European Biofuels Technology Platform (EBTP): Panoutsou
     • Chair, UK Arctic and Antarctic Partnerships Committee: Siegert
     • Chair, Meridian Institute, Washington DC: Conway
     • Chair, Committee on Medical Effects of Air Pollutants: Kelly
     • Board, Library of Alexandria, Cairo: Conway
     • UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ Climate Science Advisory Group: Rogelj
     • UK Committee on Climate Change: Skea
     • Standing Advisory Group on Nuclear Applications (International Atomic Energy Agency):
         Mumford
     • European Commission Microplastics Working Group: Wright
     • Steering Committee for the Alliance on Conservation Evidence: Mills
     • Scientific Advisory Committee, The Nature Conservancy, Washington: Burgman
     • Science Committee, Royal Horticultural Society: Slawson
     • National Policy Committee, Council for Protection of Rural England: Potter
     • Health Effects Institute Review Committee: Kelly, Barratt
     • IChemE Energy Centre Board: Mac Dowell
     • Governing Board, EIT Climate Knowledge and Innovation Community: Siegert

 4e. Contributions to sustainability of the discipline and responsiveness to emerging
 priorities
 UoA14 staff roles in the influential IPCC are documented above. The ‘1.5°C report’, launched at
 Imperial in 2018 by the UK Environment Minister Claire Perry MP, underpinned the UK’s decision
 to commit to net zero carbon emissions by 2050, announced by Prime Minister Theresa May at
 Imperial in June 2019.
         UoA staff influence environmental policy in many other ways. Mac Dowell is on Total’s
 Scientific Committee and helped the company to develop its net zero strategy. Members are on
 many industrial boards (see above). Mac Dowell was the only non-US citizen invited to contribute
 to the US National Academy of Science study on Greenhouse Gas Removal. Howe leads the
 MOU between Imperial College and the United Nations Environmental Management Group (UN



                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EMG), supporting the UN on biodiversity, human wellbeing issues and the SDGs, and assisting
 the UN EMG to implement outcomes from Imperial College research.
          We continue to expand our role in significant international policy initiatives (see Section
 1c above), especially our involvements in the IPCC (Skea, Slade and Rogelj), the International
 Society for Environmental Epidemiology (de Nazelle), the Health Effects Institute Review
 Committee (Kelly), the Malabo-Montpellier Panel for food security and the Rockefeller Conway
 Centre for nutrition research (Conway), and international biosecurity risk assessment systems
 (Mumford).
          In addition to the many roles outlined above, UoA members contribute to emerging
 priorities through scientific societies and conferences. Many UoA members have been heavily
 involved in conference organisation over the REF period, including for the International Society
 for Environmental Epidemiology (Fecht), the International Environmetrics Society (Pirani),
 European Biomass Conference (Panatsou), the Investigation of Air Pollution Standing Conference
 (Green) and the European Aerosol Conference (Green). Other examples of UoA participation in
 emerging priorities include;
     • PluS Alliance Advisory Panel: Kelly
     • WHO Expert Consultation Panel on Air Pollution Risk Communication: Barratt
     • WHO Expert Consultation of Health Impacts Assessment of NO2 in the European Region:
          Beevers
     • WHO (REVIHAAP) Review of evidence on health aspects of air pollution: Mudway, Kelly,
          Walton, Williams
     • Advisor, Irish Environmental Protection Agency: Walton
     • Committee on the Medical Effects of Air Pollutants, Public Health England: Walton
     • Specialist Adviser, Environmental Audit Committee, House of Commons: Sheate
     • UK Commons Select Committee, Environmental Audit Committee: Mudway
     • US Environmental Protection Agency: Beevers
     • Advisory Board, Scott Institute for Energy Innovation, Carnegie-Mellon University: Skea

 4f. indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base:
 fellowships, recognition and editorships
 Significant roles in the coordination and leadership of scientific research by UoA members include:
      • Gross (seconded in 2019 to be the Director of UK Energy Research Centre),
      • Potter (appointed in 2020 as a Future of UK Treescapes programme Ambassador by
         NERC / AHRC / ESRC),
      • Mac Dowell (seconded in 2021 to the UK Department of BEIS to translate energy research
         into public policy),
      • Voulvoulis (appointed in 2019 to the Environment Agency Strategic Monitoring Review
         Advisory Body).

 UoA members make other influential contributions; some include:
    • Lead Author in UNEP’s 6 th Global Environment Outlook and a Contributing Author on
      UNEP’s Gap Report: Köberle
    • Lead Authors for the IPCC’s 6th Assessment Report: Köberle and Rogelj
    • ESRC Collaborative Studentship Panel: Potter
    • Sherfield Fellowship Selection Committee, Marshall Aid Commemoration Commission:
      Mumford
    • Evaluation Panel Senior Researcher, Environmental and Agricultural Sciences Panel,
      British Council: Wood
    • Scientific Panel member, European Commission, European & Global Fellowships: Fecht.

 UoA members hold the following fellowships, awards and senior editorships:
   • Learned Societies:
        o Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS): Conway

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            o   Fellows of International Scientific Societies
                    ▪ Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE): Siegert, Skea
                    ▪ Australian Academy of Science (FAA): Burgman
                    ▪ American Academy of Arts and Sciences (FAAAS): Conway
            o   Fellows of Other National Learned Societies:
                    ▪ Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci): Kelly
                    ▪ Royal Academy of Engineering (HonFRAE): Conway
                    ▪ Royal Geographical Society (FRGS): Conway, Siegert, Burgman, Cherni
                    ▪ Linnean Society (FLS): K. Makuch, Burgman, Bell, Jeger
                    ▪ Royal Society of Arts (FRSA): Skea
                    ▪ Royal Society of Biology (FRSB): Kelly, Jeger
                    ▪ Royal Society of Chemistry (FRSC): Barron, Kelly, Kafizas, Hardy
                    ▪ Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences (FCSFS): Barron
                    ▪ Society for the Environment (HonFSE): Skea

    •   Awards during the REF period:
          o Haagen-Smit Prize (Kelly 2019)
          o Royal Society of Chemistry Toxicology Award (Kelly 2019)
          o Cuban Academy of Science Prize for Scientific Innovation (Cherni, 2018)
          o Founder's Medal of the Royal Geographical Society (Conway 2017)
          o The Piers Sellers Prize for climate research (Rogelj 2016)
          o ETH Medal, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (Rogelj 2015)
          o Editor’s Choice Award, American Chemical Society, (Robinson 2015)
          o Sustainable Business Award, Imperial Business School (Staffell 2014)
          o CBE for services to sustainable energy (Skea 2014)

    •   Current Senior Editorships:
           o Air Quality, Atmosphere and Health (Editor-in-chief): Kelly
           o Conservation Biology (Editor-in-chief): Burgman
           o Carbon Management (Editor-in-chief): Woods
           o European Journal of Plant Pathology (Editor-in-chief): Jeger
           o European Energy and Environmental Law Review (Editor-in-chief): Z.Makuch
           o Frontiers in Environmental Science (Field Chief Editor): Siegert
           o Journal of Environmental Assessment, Policy and Management (Editorial board
               and Founding Editor): Sheate
           o Science & Justice (Editorial board and Editor-in-chief, 2001-2014): Barron

 4g. Collaboration in PGR training
 The UoA collaborates with London NERC DTP and SCENARIO DTP in the student-led DTP
 Annual Conference. SSCP DTP students gain experience in conference presentations in a
 supportive environment, develop wider perspectives on environmental research, and networki with
 peers, external partners and industry.
          The Joint MRC Centre, EEH and CRTH Training Programme for PhDs and ECRs is a
 collaborative partnership between Imperial College London, Public Health England, King’s College
 London and the University of Cambridge’s MRC Toxicology Unit. The training programme draws
 on our more than 10 years’ experience over the Centre’s previous phases. We merged the training
 activities of the MRC Centre, EEH and CRTH into an integrated Joint Training Programme, to
 broaden its scope, take advantage of joint expertise and training resources and offer opportunities
 to develop broad mentoring networks.
          The MRC Centre is part of the London NERC DTP, a partnership including University
 College London, Birkbeck University, King’s College London, Queen Mary University, Royal
 Holloway University, Brunel University London, Institute of Zoology, Natural History Museum. We
 provide environmental research training and deliver a transformative inter-disciplinary experience


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for PhD students. We currently fund over 140 PhD students in the natural sciences. We designed
 a multidisciplinary four-year training programme that includes new teaching elements contributed
 by all Partners and spanning all research themes. It equips each student to conduct empirical
 and/or theoretical research, underpinned by rigorous numerical and statistical skills. We also
 include a range of transferable skills, from time management to academic writing, ethics and the
 peer review processes.
         The ESRC-funded London Interdisciplinary Social Science DTP (LISS DTP) is led by
 King’s College London, in partnership with Imperial College and Queen Mary University. It
 provides studentships in 13 Thematic Pathways that enable social science research students to
 develop research at the interface between the social sciences, health and medicine, natural and
 physical sciences, and engineering. CEP currently has five students funded by the LISS DTP.




                                                                                         Page 21
