Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: 24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

    1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 Unit Context and Structure
 Ulster University’s Sport and Exercise Sciences Research Institute (SESRI) was established in
 2002 with a strategic vision to produce world-leading research in sport and exercise science
 that materially impacts on issues of health, performance and policy for a range of stakeholders
 in the sport and exercise field. SESRI has submitted to four previous research assessment
 exercises demonstrating a clear track record for high-quality, sustainable, progressive and
 world-leading research (2014: overall 14% 4-star vs. 2008: 5% 4-star), achieved via a plethora
 of national and international collaborations with recognised research centres of excellence,
 sustained growth in grant income, recruitment and development of new staff and early career
 researchers, and through the publication of high-quality impactful research. The momentum
 built across these exercises has continued in this REF cycle, and SESRI is now recognised
 internationally for its innovative, cutting-edge multi- and inter-disciplinary research. Over this
 assessment period, we have expanded and enhanced our profile by developing research
 specialisms and projects within two vibrant research centres:

 The Centre for Exercise Medicine, Physical Activity and Health led by Professor Gareth
 Davison comprises 16 staff members conducting research in: Exercise Biochemistry and
 Physiology (Davison, McClean, McMahon); Physical Activity and Health (Murphy, Carlin,
 Fitzpatrick); Sport and Exercise Psychology (Paradis, Meade, Sharp, Breslin, Haughey); Sport
 and Exercise Nutrition (McNeilly); Sport and Exercise Biomechanics (McCabe, Wallace); Sport
 and Exercise Medicine (Matthews, Kennedy).

 Research in this Centre is inter- and multi-disciplinary and focuses on physical activity and
 disease prevention, sports medicine, metabolism and nutrition, and exercise and genetics with
 two broad aims:

    1. to investigate the role of physical activity, exercise and nutrition in the prevention and
       treatment of chronic disease, and in the promotion of psychological well-being;

    2. to explore the biomechanical and medical factors that contribute to sports performance
       and the management, prognosis and rehabilitation of sports injuries.

 The Centre for Sport in Society led by Dr Paul Darby comprises 6 staff members conducting
 research in: Sports Sociology (Darby, Liston); Sports Politics and Management (Hassan); Social
 Psychology (Sharp, Paradis); Sports Management and Business (Kitchin).

 Research in this Centre is concerned with the cultural, political, social, economic, psychological
 and historical impact of sport with the following aims:

    1. to critically examine the role of sport in a variety of local, national and international
       contexts;

    2. to undertake research which can be used to enhance the experiences and practices of/in
       sport for multiple stakeholders.

 Each centre operates in an open and participatory manner, with cross-over of members between
 centres to facilitate collaborative, inter- and multi-disciplinary approaches to research projects.
 Researchers are supported by three administrative staff, three technical staff, and seven Visiting
 Professors across the subject disciplines. The work of both centres is augmented by a high-quality
 postgraduate research culture and environment (see section 2. People).

 In REF2014, SESRI received a 75% internationally excellent (3*) rating for its research
 environment. In this cycle, there have been considerable developments including an extension

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and enhancement of our world-class research facilities, the establishment of the Institute for
 Mental Health Sciences, and 2 new Human Performance Laboratories (Magee and Coleraine
 campus). This circa £1M investment has allowed for an extension of the applied and mechanistic
 work in psychology and human physiology-based research and has led to the recruitment of new
 academic staff, the publication of world-leading outputs and associated impact, and the support
 of high-quality PhD researchers to completion.

 SESRI’s focus on strategic research that is both translational and impactful has undergone a
 step change in this current cycle with an increasing emphasis on working with and producing
 research that impacts multiple stakeholders in sport and exercise. To this end, SESRI has
 conducted impactful research leading to policy change, nationally and internationally, in the
 domains of Sport and Mental Health, and Physical Activity for Health and Disease Prevention.
 These impact case studies were strategically identified at an early stage in this REF cycle, and
 their development was financially and continuously supported by SESRI. Beyond our two impact
 case studies, SESRI members prioritise impact in their research activities through close
 collaborations with multiple stakeholders and organisations in the sports industry (nationally and
 internationally), public engagement activities, and wide dissemination of our research findings
 (see section 4. Contribution to Society and Industry). SESRI has a policy of ringfencing financial
 support for impact generation through training (e.g., Fast Track Impact) and impact related
 activities (e.g., media and production workshops). We have a clear and sustainable plan moving
 into the next REF period that will maintain impact at the core of SESRI’s research activities, as
 evidenced in part, by our ongoing work in collaboration with international organisations, such as
 UNICEF and FIFA, influencing policy developments on children’s rights in the global football
 industry.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 In the 2014-2020 period, the SESRI strategy provided excellent research opportunities for staff
 and postgraduate researchers to achieve the following aims:

    •   to advance knowledge in our research areas through high-quality and impactful research
        outputs, emanating from inter- and multi-disciplinary and collaborative research;

    •   to facilitate the translation of the knowledge derived from our sport and exercise research
        into intellectual assets that impact positively on the economy, society and culture;

    •   to contribute to a strong and vibrant research and learning culture among our
        postgraduate and early career researchers to prepare the next generation of leading
        researchers in sport and exercise.

 In support of our key aims, we developed the following strategic objectives: (1) to develop further
 a culture where research, discovery, creativity and innovation are encouraged and appropriately
 supported; (2) to produce outputs from our chosen areas of research which are deemed high-
 quality when assessed against international standards of excellence; (3) to provide a vibrant
 environment within which high-quality impactful research is promoted and sustained; (4) to
 facilitate the translation of knowledge into intellectual assets that impact positively on the
 economy, society and culture; (5) to disseminate the outputs and impacts arising from our
 research and innovation and communicate these to the widest possible audience; (6) to attract,
 train, develop and progress high-quality postgraduate researchers and early career research
 staff; and (7) to further integrate research within curriculum design and delivery to enhance the
 learning experience of our undergraduate and taught postgraduate students.

 During this period, we have actively and successfully pursued each of these objectives through
 our two Research Centres and, in a wider context within the School of Sport, resulting in significant
 improvements in several key indicators including:

    •   45% increase in the number of Category A submitted staff (from 13.2 [2014] to 19.2
        [2020]).

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   162% increase in the number of PhD completions (from 10.3 to 27.01).

    •   Increase in number and quality of research outputs with more than 50 outputs per year
        during this assessment period, including: 250+ peer-reviewed journal articles, 6 books,
        and 38 book chapters. This represents an increase of 14% from 2014. 36.6% of our
        publications were in the top 10% of journals, with 17.4% of outputs in the top 10% of most
        cited publications worldwide.

    •   Further development of research collaborations with leading international researchers and
        centres of excellence (n>20; with new collaborations with research centres in, for example,
        Norway, Australia, U.S.A, Finland, Spain). 52.2% of our outputs published with
        international collaborators.

    •   Securing of external funding (>£2.2M) from a wide range of prestigious sources including:
        Research Councils, European Agencies, Charities and a range of local, national, and
        international partnership funding opportunities.

    •   Expanding level of impactful research in areas such as Sport and Mental Health, Physical
        Activity and Health, and in Football Migration and Children’s Rights, benefitting local,
        national, and international agencies and stakeholders such as UNICEF UK and FIFA.

    •   Recognition of the achievement of existing staff via internal promotions (n=6) and
        distinguished research fellowships.

    •   Acting upon REF2014 feedback, SESRI was restructured to consolidate our research
        offering through two focussed and streamlined research centres; supported by a
        significant investment in additional staff (n=9).

    •   Extending our influence on international research platforms through editorial roles on
        international journals, membership of scientific boards for public organisations,
        appointments at overseas universities, invitations to international conferences, and
        hosting of international conferences such as the European College of Sports Science
        Annual Conference, and the European Sports Management Conference.

    •   Established and revalidated a suite of MSc programmes (Exercise Medicine, Sport and
        Exercise Nutrition, Sport and Exercise Psychology, Strength and Conditioning, Sports
        Coaching and Performance) within which research is a major focus. All programmes
        provide an excellent training base for further postgraduate research.

 All School of Sport staff are committed to research-informed teaching, and this underpins all
 taught degree programmes offered by the School. Staff exhibit this commitment by ensuring that
 all learning and teaching is research-led and oriented. This approach has helped School staff to
 (1) increase NSS student satisfaction rates, (2) enhance research culture, (3) improve research
 and science communication skills, and (4) develop an intellectual curiosity across the disciplines.

 Sustainability and Future Aspirations
 The main objectives and activities for our research for the five years following submission are
 underpinned by the University’s current Research and Impact Strategy (see REF5a), which has
 the following strategic intent at its core - ‘Undertake interdisciplinary research in a supportive
 environment to produce internationally excellent and world-leading research with
 transformative impact’. In keeping with this, the primary and collective focus of SESRI will be
 to address, in novel ways, significant, ongoing and emerging research questions in exercise
 medicine, physical activity and health, and in the social sciences of sport. The former
 encompasses questions relating to mental health and wellbeing, genetics and epigenetics,
 physical activity for disease prevention and management, sports medicine and rehabilitation,
 sports microbiology, and oxidative eustress. To realise our ambitious plans in this domain, we
 will work closely with the University’s newly established School of Medicine which received

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approval in September 2020 from the General Medical Council to recruit students to a graduate
 entry medicine programme, as well as considerable potential infrastructure investment of circa
 £28.55M to build a new Medical School based in Magee. We will continue to build collaborations
 with the University’s Clinical Translational Research and Innovative Centre (C-TRIC) based at
 Altnagelvin Hospital. C-TRIC is an enterprise designed to facilitate healthcare research by
 bringing together clinicians, University staff and industry to achieve better outcomes for patients,
 locally and internationally. These inter-disciplinary relationships will expand our research
 capabilities and allow SESRI members to bring their innovative research ideas to fruition in
 cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, orthopaedics, mental health, and personalised
 medicine. Further relationships will be developed and maintained to contribute to (1) the NI GP
 and exercise referral scheme, and (2) mental health and well-being hubs in NI community
 networks. The Centre for Sport in Society will address issues around equality and inclusion in
 sport (gender and disability), sport and identity politics, the sport-health nexus, children’s rights
 in sport, transnational sports migration, and the business, politics and governance of sport.

 Our strategic AIMS for 2021-2027 are as follows:

    •   To continue to promote and build a culture where research, discovery, creativity, and
        impact are encouraged and supported.

    •   To further enhance the significance and quality of our outputs within our chosen areas
        of research.

    •   To further augment the translational impact of our work.

    •   To consolidate and build upon our environment within which high-quality multi- and inter-
        disciplinary research is fostered and sustained.

    •   To secure substantial research funding.

    •   To continue to develop collaborations with regional, national, and international
        researchers.

 To achieve these AIMS, SESRI will:

    •   Provide staff and postgraduate researchers with high-quality research training and
        professional researcher development through financial and other supportive initiatives.
        We will continue to nurture staff and PhD researchers, and expand our core research
        aspirations in Exercise Medicine, Physical Activity and in the Social Sciences of Sport.

    •   Provide direction, and support for attracting competitive external grant income. We will
        create opportunities for increasing our grant applications and success rate.

    •   Recruit high-quality postgraduate researchers capable of becoming internationally
        renowned in their field.

    •   Support and develop the creation of impactful research.

    •   Develop international connections, and work with international partners and collaborators
        to address global and relevant societal issues. We will work to further extend our
        international collaborations and networks.

    •   Retain and recruit high-quality research staff to build capacity across research centres -
        investment has been allocated for four new appointments in Physical Activity, Exercise
        Medicine, and in the Sociology of Sport in late 2020.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our strategic aims for 2021-2027 will be met through several mechanisms at Institutional,
 Faculty and research institute level, designed to assist in the delivery and realisation of our
 aims, and for monitoring the attainment of achievements. Membership of the SESRI is based on
 published criteria (1 published paper, current or past supervision of PhD researchers and
 potential to attract funding) reflecting excellence (or strong potential) in research performance.
 The SESRI Directorate (Director of SESRI/Research Centre Lead - Professor Davison,
 Research Centre lead Dr Darby, Head of School – Dr Fitzpatrick, and Postgraduate Tutor, Dr
 McCabe) guides the implementation of the strategy. SESRI’s terms of reference are to develop,
 implement and regularly review a research strategy which is in line with the current Institutional
 Research and Impact Strategy: (1) to create an environment that promotes research excellence
 as evidenced by performance in research assessments, ( 2 ) to provide a focus for multi- and
 inter-disciplinary research and innovation within, and beyond the Faculty, (3) to facilitate the
 dissemination of high-quality impactful research and publications, (4) to secure external research
 funding, (5) to encourage innovation and the exploitation of intellectual property created by our
 research, and (6) to promote the dissemination of successful research initiatives beyond the
 academic community. Each of the 2 Research Centers (RCs) contribute to the development
 and articulation of the SESRI research policy and strategy that is reflective and supportive of
 work conducted within the RC. Each RC reports on research performance, particularly in relation
 to the quality and volume of research outputs and external research funding, and each RC
 encourages synergies to strategically plan for the collaborative conduct of research projects and
 the delivery of collaborative outputs, and to identify and prioritise pathways to impact. The RC’s
 support a culture of research integrity and ensures that research is conducted according to
 appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards (see section 2
 People).

 Within this REF cycle, Ulster University refreshed its Research and Impact strategy to introduce
 and position an Associate Dean for Research and Impact within each Faculty. The Associate
 Dean provides Faculty-level leadership for the development of research and impact, while
 promoting opportunities for greater multi- and inter-disciplinary research collaborations and
 sharing of best-practice within and between Faculties. This structure provides the SESRI
 Director with a point of contact to discuss all matters relating to research progression and
 performance at monthly meetings. The SESRI Director is also a member of the Faculty’s
 Research and Leadership Team and the Faculty’s Leadership Team chaired by the Executive
 Dean, with responsibility for reporting and progressing research matters. In addition to the
 Faculty reporting structures, the SESRI presents its progress and activities yearly to a
 committee of senior staff chaired by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Research and Impact.
 Collectively, this management structure ensures the priority areas for the SESRI are identified,
 agreed and implemented.

       2. People

 Staffing
 Ulster University recognises that the presence of leading researchers at the University is a
 prerequisite for the effective delivery of high impact, multi- and inter-disciplinary, and sustainable
 research. In response to this, the Department for Research and Impact has refreshed its strategy
 (2017-2022; see REF5a) to support the delivery of its research goals and aspirations. A clear
 strategic intent to recruit, retain and reward exceptional research staff was formalised, and this
 has been realised through several supporting actions, such as the recruitment of new researchers
 across the University and a formal institution-wide research sabbatical policy. In essence, the
 strategy is designed to create pathways to grow international expertise and develop staff in ways
 that help deliver our vision and objectives.

 Since REF2014, SESRI has ensured that strategic appointments have been made to sustain,
 complement, and extend our research expertise aligned to the University’s inter-disciplinary
 priority themes (e.g., Sustainability, Social Renewal, Healthy Communities, see REF5a). In the
 2014-2021 REF submission period, we have grown our Category A staff by 45% to 19.2FTE. Of
 these, 10 Category A staff were submitted in REF2014, demonstrating both continuity and growth.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In this period, we made 9 additional appointments to strengthen research expertise and
 capabilities (Carlin, Mair and Fitzpatrick - Physical Activity and Health; McCabe - Sport and
 Exercise Biomechanics; Matthews and Bleakley – Sports Medicine; Paradis – Social Science of
 Sport; Metcalfe, McMahon – Exercise Physiology), of which 3 are Early Career Researchers
 (ECRs) (Carlin, Fitzpatrick, Matthews). During this reporting period, 3 staff (Bleakley, Mair,
 Metcalfe) left the unit to take up positions in other institutions, 1 took flexible retirement and
 reduced to a 0.2FTE (Wallace). 3 staff (Meade, Haughey, Kennedy) not included in REF2014 are
 returned in this submission. 6 staff received internal promotions during this REF period (Murphy
 to Dean of Postgraduate Research and Director of Doctoral College; Hassan to Associate Dean
 for Global Engagement; Liston, Haughey and Fitzpatrick to Senior Lecturer, and Ferguson to
 Reader). None of our Category A staff are due to retire in the forthcoming 5-year period, thereby
 providing stability and sustainability both in terms of the SESRI as a unit, and within the designated
 research centres.

 In addition to the expertise of our core staff, we augment our research capabilities through our
 strategically appointed 7 Visiting Professors who provide support, mentorship, knowledge and
 expertise through their contribution to regular research seminars, advising and collaborating on
 grant applications and helping to translate our research into clinical practice. Professors O’Donnell
 and Trinick are medical consultants, and they provide a gateway to research investigations
 concerned with exercise and disease populations. Professors O’Donnell (Royal Victoria Hospital,
 Belfast), Trinick (Ulster Hospital), Mutrie (University of Edinburgh), Bailey (University of South
 Wales) and Woods (University of Limerick) are aligned to the Centre of Exercise Medicine,
 Physical Activity and Health, while Professors Skinner (Loughborough University London) and
 Nelson (Irish Football Association) provides expertise and guidance within the Centre for Sport in
 Society. Retired Visiting Professors within this REF cycle include Professor Nevill (University of
 Wolverhampton), Glasgow (Irish Rugby Football Union), MacAuley (General Practitioner) and
 Boreham (University College Dublin).

 Conducting Research, Staff Training and Practice
 Research Governance across the SESRI is administered via a number of mechanisms by which
 standards of research quality and integrity are maintained (for example ethics procedures
 and authorship policies). It is University policy that all research involving human participants must
 be reviewed through the filter and ethics committee process (our UoA has its own filter committee),
 as appropriate. In addition, specific mandatory training is provided for the SESRI staff and
 postgraduate researchers in research integrity (100% completion rate), the requirements of the
 Human Tissue Act and project audits, accessing the NHS and good clinical practice. Guidance is
 also available on authorship, assessing risk, obtaining consent and related matters.
 Postgraduate researchers and newly appointed staff are introduced to the requirements of the
 Code of Practice during their University induction. The Research Governance section carries out
 annual reviews of selected studies to ensure that they are in-compliance with procedures and
 appropriate legislation, and quarterly reminders are issued to all staff of the need to comply with
 procedures and standards, and of the expectation that they will contribute to maintaining a culture
 of quality and integrity in research in all disciplines. Strict guidelines are also in place to ensure
 authorship integrity is maintained and a ‘Research Study Volunteer Complaints Procedure’ is
 made explicit in all research proposals.

 Supporting Equality, Diversity and Career Development of Researchers
 The University has signed up to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Since 1998, when the Research Careers Initiative (RCI) was launched, the SESRI
 has embraced the University’s initiatives designed to effectively implement all aspects of the
 Institutional Contract Research Staff (CRS) policy. The SESRI adheres to the University’s policy
 to provide equality and diversity of opportunity to all and has endorsed the Code of Practice on
 the selection of staff and identification of outputs for the REF2021 submission, and the principle
 that all eligible staff were provided with the opportunity to participate in this REF cycle (see
 REF5a). SESRI has implemented all processes as outlined in the Code of Practice to ensure
 inclusivity and to maximise participation. All School staff attended a number of meetings with the
 Research Director and Head of School to identify those with a Significant Responsibility for

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research (SRR). With clear communication and constructive dialogue, the status of each staff
 member was documented with a signed agreement (SRR confirmed: 39% female, 61% male;
 94.5% aged 24-55 years). For the only 2 staff categorised as SRR-pending, an agreed date was
 set for reappraisal with support offered by SESRI. All staff outputs were selected in an open and
 transparent manner, where each eligible member of staff had the opportunity to propose and rank
 their top outputs according to external reviewer scores; final selection was based on quality and
 final number required, with all staff having 1 to 5 outputs included. Feedback offered to staff
 regarding the assessment of outputs was concise and constructive, and all staff were informed of
 the final selection. Staff in this UoA involved in recruitment and selection of PhD studentships,
 placement and staff, have all undertaken equality, diversity and inclusion training. An institution-
 wide Equality Impact Assessment was carried out on the final selection of staff. The University is
 committed to the principles of the Athena SWAN Charter (see REF5a). The School of Sport
 obtained the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2017, recognising excellence in the areas of Science,
 Technology, Engineering, Mathematics and Medicine for Women in the HE Sector. Out workings
 include an uptake of female staff joining internal and external committees and boards, and female
 staff promoted to senior positions, e.g., Murphy to Dean of Postgraduate Research. Further, the
 University and SESRI adhere to the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code
 of Conduct for Recruitment, the Women’s Network, and the Advance HE’s Race and Equality
 Charter.

 The University has a comprehensive suite of People and Culture policies that support the career
 development of our research staff. Support and development of early career researchers (ECRs)
 and their integration into a wider, supportive research environment is central to our staff
 development policy. Each of our ECRs has undertaken the Online Welcome & Orientation
 Programme and completed 4 online Mandatory Training Programmes during their probation
 period. In addition, our ECRs have undertaken a local induction co-ordinated by the Head of
 School (HoS) and the SESRI Director, with the aim of welcoming and introducing the
 researcher to their colleagues, assigning a senior research mentor, and ensuring s/he has the
 required information and resources to be effective in their new role. Each of our ECRs agrees
 a Personal Development Plan with the HoS and the SESRI Director via a Developmental
 Appraisal Review at the start of their probation period. This plan is reviewed on an annual basis
 to ensure a mutual understanding of performance objectives, and to agree the required support
 and development to achieve these outcomes.

 Support and Development for our researchers is also provided via the University’s Research and
 Impact CPD framework aligned to the VITAE UK’s Researcher Developmental Framework.
 Ulster’s Researcher CPD framework provides comprehensive options for staff on aspects of
 research progression and development. For example:

    •   SOARING (Significance and Originality in Academic Research: Interpreting New
        Guidance) is a support programme focused on further strengthening research outputs by
        increasing their quality. 7 staff availed of this opportunity.

    •   The IMPACT Development Series is a support programme designed to help researchers
        identify impact pathways and develop a planning methodology to deliver the impact arising
        from their research. 5 staff availed of this opportunity.

    •   RIGOUR (Research Income & Grant Opportunities for Ulster Researchers) is a new
        support programme designed to help academic researchers enhance and improve on the
        success rate of grant applications to external funding bodies. 8 staff availed of this
        opportunity.

    •   The UCommunicate programme helps develop excellence in research communication,
        and through a series of workshops, it equips researchers with the skills needed to translate
        complex concepts into clear messages. 3 staff availed of this opportunity.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Aurora is a leadership development programme for women up to senior lecturer/researcher
        and professional services up to Grade 8, who demonstrate the ambition to develop as a
        leader in current or future roles. 2 staff (Liston and Carlin) availed of this opportunity, and
        Carlin now holds a leadership role in Learning and Teaching.

    •   The Wo/men’s Network events provide a supportive and collegiate space to, build
        relationships and connections across the University; encourage personal and professional
        learning and development; and recognise and celebrate the achievements of women. 4
        staff are active members of the network.

    •   The Research Mentoring Programme supports academic and research staff to build
        research capacity and capability. 4 SESRI staff have been mentored, while 3 staff have
        provided mentorship.

 Ulster University has a robust Excellence Award Scheme, designed to support and recognise
 outstanding partnerships that have made a significant impact on our societies and economics,
 both nationally and internationally. The IMPACT related award stream in particular, rewards
 cutting-edge collaborations between researchers and external stakeholders, that aims to generate
 world-leading impactful research. Moreover, staff may be recognised through the University’s
 Distinguished Research Fellowship Award Scheme; a highly competitive and rigorous award
 process designed to reward academic colleagues identified as international leaders in research.
 To this end, Murphy was the recipient of the 2019 Overall Champion Senior Distinguished
 Research Fellowship Award in recognition of expectational and impactful research.

 Staff Workload and Funding Allocation
 At a School level, a staff workload model is used to allocate teaching, research and administrative
 duties in a transparent and equitable manner, and in a way that maximises the potential for staff
 to return high-quality research, whilst at the same time deliver innovative teaching within the
 School. Research workload credits are set annually for the development of publications and writing
 of grants, developing and disseminating impactful research, presenting at national and
 international conferences, and supervising PhD researchers. Staff normally work to an allocation
 of 40% research time across the entire academic year. Research performance is a key priority,
 and all academic staff with research responsibility complete an annual Personal Research Plan,
 which facilitates workload allocation and CPD discussions. Within year teaching workloads are
 organised and designed to allow staff to avail of a reduced semester workload, thus facilitating
 research intensive periods and increased productivity. This approach works by module sharing
 and through a collaborative and supportive network of colleagues. This strategy also facilitated
 sabbaticals (6 months) for Murphy and Wallace in this REF cycle. Aligned to these sabbaticals,
 financial support allowed for a period of mobility to leading national and international centres of
 excellence (in Edinburgh, Australia, New Zealand) to collaborate on, and return high-quality
 outputs and prestigious grants. This period of dedicated research time also advanced an impact
 case study submitted in this REF cycle. University central funding to support research activities of
 the SESRI staff is provided via the Research Institute Budget Allocation. The method for
 allocation of Research Institute budgets involves a combination of QR earned and rewards for
 research grant activity. A major part of the annual budget allocation is based on the in-year QR
 income for the research area plus an allocation based on overhead recovery on grants for the
 previous 3 years. This annual budget is allocated by the SESRI Director to the SESRI members
 based on applications to support and develop their research, including staff development,
 participation in conferences, realisation of impact, and purchase of equipment and consumables.
 Support is also available via the School budget for research related professional development
 activities.

 Postgraduate Researchers
 SESRI postgraduate researchers comprise a vibrant mix of UK, Irish and international students,
 a n d play a key part in the research culture and environment by way of their focussed research
 projects, their involvement in all SESRI research events, and their engagement with their fellow
 postgraduate researchers both formally and informally. PhD researchers consistently return

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scores above the national average (82%) for all components of the National Postgraduate
 Research Experience Survey (SESRI overall satisfaction 87%). We have increased our PhD
 completions by 162% in this cycle compared to REF2014, demonstrating growth and
 development, and our commitment to nurturing PhD researchers and developing future research
 leaders.

 Government – Department for Economy (DfE) and internally – Vice-Chancellors Research
 Scholarship (VCRS) funded PhD studentships are distributed equitably across the research
 centres, creating sustainability and balance in our postgraduate researcher cohort. The SESRI
 staff co-supervise postgraduate researchers across a wide range of inter- and multi-disciplinary
 projects aligned to other UoAs (Biomedical Sciences, Psychology, Nursing, Health, Law, History,
 Business, Computing and Engineering). Where possible ECR staff are included on all PhD
 supervisory teams to enhance their capability and develop supervisory capacity for the future.
 Eighty per cent of our doctoral researchers were/are full-time, and receiving competitive and
 prestigious DfE and VCRS awards, or a DfE Cooperative Award in Science and Technology
 (CAST) in partnership with external industry funders. One full-time PhD researcher is funded
 by a competitive Northern Ireland Chest, Heart and Stroke award. The unit has also been home
 to 7 PhD researchers completing via a part-time self-funded route.

 In 2017, the University made a significant, strategic investment in postgraduate research with the
 inception of a new Doctoral College to ensure a consistently excellent PhD researcher experience
 across the University. PhD researchers are recruited, given access to appropriate training,
 mentored, and monitored by the SESRI’s Postgraduate Tutor (McCabe) in conjunction with the
 Doctoral College. SESRI PhD researchers avail of a plethora of training opportunities through the
 Researcher Development Programme, aligned to the VITAE framework, comprising a suite of
 workshops, specialist skills sessions, online courses and personal development planning
 activities which provide SESRI postgraduate researchers with experience and skills required to be
 a world-class researcher. Further, each SESRI PhD researcher is offered the opportunity to
 present their work at the annual Doctoral College Festival of PhD Research, and actively
 encouraged and supported to participate in the regional and national 3-Minute Thesis 3MT®
 competition. All SESRI PhD researchers are provided with the opportunity annually to complete
 the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey to provide valuable feedback to the SESRI
 Director and Postgraduate Tutor on matters relating to research skills, supervision, resource,
 culture, progress and assessment, professional development, opportunities, and their overall
 experience.

 The Doctoral College provides a support grant of £900 per annum to each DfE and VCRS funded
 researcher, which, in conjunction with the SESRI funds, enables data collection or field work, and
 participation in conferences and seminars. In addition, financial support from external grants
 awarded to staff are also used to support the laboratory work of their PhD researcher teams. The
 SESRI has excellent postgraduate facilities. All full-time researchers are provided with a
 designated individual workspace in newly acquired, open-plan offices close to the laboratories.
 Part-time students have access to bookable shared workstations, in addition to bookable
 access to our research laboratories, our research staff, and have support from a team of full-time
 laboratory technicians.

 The SESRI provides training in discipline-specific research techniques (for example qualitative
 and quantitative statistics, bio-analytical assessment, exercise and fitness evaluation, physical
 activity measurement) via workshops and/or tutorials and promotes and supports multi- and inter-
 disciplinary research with other Faculty initiatives such as joint PhD supervision. SESRI staff are
 all engaged in postgraduate research supervision, with each PhD researcher having a minimum
 of two supervisors with at least one having successfully supervised to completion. The
 Postgraduate Tutor ensures that researchers receive training in relevant research methods and
 generic skills and organises 2 progress seminars during the first year of study (initial and
 confirmation), and a further final year seminar. In addition, PhD researchers and supervisors’
 complete annual reports to ensure any progress or supervisory issues are identified and
 overcome in a timely manner. Postgraduate researchers are also supported by other activities

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within SESRI such as journal clubs, research group seminars and Faculty-wide initiatives such
 as the Grow-Ur Network programme, which provides funding to support a unique opportunity for
 SESRI PhD researchers to link with a world-leading researcher outside Europe, with the view of
 spending time in an international laboratory collecting unique data leading to an internationally
 co-authored publication. Our researchers have also availed of funding through the Erasmus+
 programme to facilitate visits at European Centres of Excellence (Frederich Alexander University
 – Germany, University of Zurich - Switzerland, University of Bologna - Italy) to work collaboratively
 with internationally renowned researchers.

    3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Income
 The Unit’s strategy for generating grant income is both multi- and inter-disciplinary in focus with a
 targeted approach that incorporates a blend of ECRs, junior and senior researchers. The strategy
 includes capitalising on a strong experienced staff base in a given research area (e.g., physical
 activity and health), focussing on a mix of funding bodies, building capacity to target particular
 funding calls, and diversifying to focus on specific income streams. An example of the successful
 outworking’s of this strategy includes Murphy’s £592K award leading to impactful and high-quality
 publications. The University’s Research Development team is Faculty-facing, and includes
 dedicated Faculty Research Managers, a Global Manager and a Strategic Research Development
 Manager who horizon scan, and source opportunities to build large scale, high-quality and multi-
 disciplinary applications. At a Faculty and Unit level, we have full-time Research Managers and
 Officers who over-see and support all applications from conception through to submission, and a
 School Officer who manages resources and provides regular grant management information.
 Research Development provides an open and competitive opportunity to secure seed funding,
 and pump priming for identification and development of projects and bids through a Research
 Development Strategy Fund, Collaborative Research Fund and GCRF pump priming (Davison
 successful in 2018). In addition, the Department offers expert review services and PhD match
 funding to strengthen strategic, prestigious and inter-disciplinary applications. Our unit works
 closely with Global Engagement and Development & Alumni Relations to identify partnerships to
 strengthen funding applications and leverage financial support. The University’s Thematic Leads
 work closely with the Associate Dean for Research & Impact and, the unit’s Research Director to
 promote and identify opportunities for greater multi- and inter-disciplinary research collaborations,
 as well as with external partners and with international collaborators.

 Current income across this REF cycle equates to £2,287,818 as indicated in Table 2 below.

 Table 2. SESRI Income Overview

  2013/2014     2014/2015      2015/2016     2016/2017      2017/2018     2018/2019      2019/2020
  £267,848      £332,345       £251,055      £351,997       £298,676      £359,158       £426,736

 The majority of income is spread across 40 grants, and the SESRI members have been proactive
 in securing funding to support their research aspirations and activities. These awards include
 competitive funding from Research Councils, UK central government bodies, and UK-based
 charities. Other sources include EU, UK industry, and EU government bodies. Examples of inter-
 disciplinary cross-Faculty awards include 2 of the 11 Cross-Border Health Intervention Trials
 funded by the SEUPB Interreg of £592K and £313K that involved SESRI staff (Murphy and
 Carlin) and colleagues from the Biomedical and Health Sciences UoA’s, Carlin’s Engineering
 and Physical Sciences Research Council award of £39K with Biomedical Sciences, Murphy’s NI
 Chest, Heart and Stroke £114K award with Biomedical Sciences, and Davison’s Public Health
 Agency award of £38K with colleagues in Health Sciences. Examples of awards with external
 partners include Davison’s collaboration (£100K) with colleagues at the University of Sharjah
 (UAE), and the CEC-H2020 award (£203K) that involves the SESRI with researchers from De
 Montfort University, Universitat Passau and the Austrian Institute of Technology. Other
 international grants include those by Darby (£11K) from UNICEF, Kitchin (£10K) from UEFA,
 Murphy (£39K) from CEC-Erasmus and £29K from MRC JPI DEPIPAC initiative, and £38K

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awarded to Davison from Contego Ireland. SESRI is expecting to secure a further £1.2M from the
 Thomas Charitable Fund and NIHR Public Health Research for projects relating to physical activity
 and health.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Building on an investment of circa £1.5M in the last REF cycle, SESRI has continued to receive
 significant support from the University to further develop its world-class range of exercise
 physiology, biochemistry, and biomechanics laboratories. These laboratories are managed by
 three technical support staff and consist of a range of highly specialised research-intensive
 equipment including an Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) spectrometer, High
 Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC), LightCycler 480 Real-Time PCR system, Agilent
 2100 Bioanalyzer, DNA-Microarray Analyser, DEXA scanner, state-of-the-art Hypoxic Heat
 chamber, 5 large Kistler Force Plates (permanently installed in biomechanics laboratory and
 indoor-running track), a 12-camera Qualysis Motion Capture System, 4 CODA CX Scanners and
 a Mobile-Eye GT-ME Eyetracker. New, fully equipped exercise physiology laboratories were
 strategically established on our Magee and Coleraine campuses to allow for the completion of
 regionally targeted research projects. These laboratories comprise ultramodern physiology,
 biochemistry, and psychology-based equipment. All laboratory facilities are crucial to staff and
 PhD researchers regarding data collection for high-quality publications, the servicing of grants,
 and for generating impactful research. Indeed, staff regularly use the laboratory facilities to
 disseminate impactful research via television and other media outlets (see section 4). New world-
 leading, and purpose-built Sport and Exercise Science facilities (745.3m 2 existing vs. 958.26m2
 new facilities) will be made available through SESRI’s relocation to the £365M+ Belfast campus
 development (75,000m2) scheduled for opening in September 2021. This new infrastructural
 investment will guarantee the future development and sustainability of SESRI research.

 In 2018, the University established a new inter-disciplinary Institute for Mental Health Sciences
 with the strapline ‘from gene to gym’. SESRI is a key player in this University-wide Institute and
 further develops our impactful work in sport and mental health research; contributing to an impact
 case study aligned to our REF2021 submission. In addition, SESRI has access to a range of
 shared facilities across the four University campuses, allowing for innovative and unique impactful
 research aligned mainly to the Centre for Exercise Medicine, Physical Activity and Health
 (incorporating molecular biology/cell-culture approaches, genetics and epigenetics within the brain
 and behaviour research within the £5M brain mapping facility, optometry, immunology and
 microbiology). This shared facilities approach provides opportunities for inter-disciplinary research
 on emerging exercise in health and disease concepts (e.g., Davison and Murphy hold inter-
 disciplinary PhD researcher awards with the Genomic Medicine and Ophthalmology research
 groups respectively). Moreover, Kitchin also holds an inter-disciplinary PhD researcher award
 with colleagues in the Business School to examine sports betting. Collectively, this cross-
 Faculty and inter-disciplinary approach sustains future world-leading scholarship.

    4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 All members of the SESRI are actively encouraged and supported (via external grants, the SESRI
 research strategy budget, the School of Sport, and the central University research strategy budget)
 to contribute to the enrichment and development of the research base in sport and exercise
 sciences, as evidenced, and achieved through the following:

    •   Contribution to the Discipline: Since 2014, staff have contributed to their respective
        disciplines through a plethora of activity. Primary amongst these is the publication of
        research papers, research reports, chapters and books and wider research activities
        including journal reviewing, editing, and multiple, external examining duties for research
        degrees across numerous countries. The SESRI members and postgraduate researchers
        regularly participate in international, national and regional discipline-specific and inter- and
        multi-disciplinary conferences and workshops, as keynote and invited speakers, as well
        as through oral and poster presentations (n=>50). Examples of keynote and speaker
        invitations include: Murphy – European College Sport Science, European Network for the

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Promotion of Health Enhancing Physical Activity (HEPA-Europe); Davison – American
        College Sports Medicine, Physiological Society; Darby – UNICEF UK, Harvard and Oxford
        Universities; Fitzpatrick - European Sports Network for Rehabilitation of Persons with
        Disabilities; Wallace – PGA, World Scientific Congress of Golf; Carlin – International
        Society of Behavioural Nutrition and Physical Activity; Kitchen - UEFA; Breslin – British
        Psychological Society, Royal College of Psychiatry.

        The SESRI has also organised national and international conferences including the
        European College of Sport Science Annual Conference (2018), British Psychological
        Society Division of Sport and Exercise Psychology Annual Conference (2018), HEPA-
        Europe Annual Conference (2016), Royal College of Psychiatry Annual Conference, and
        the Sports History Ireland Conference (2017). In 2019, Ulster (SESRI) was awarded, and
        will host the European Sport Management Conference 2022.

    •   Networks and Industry Collaborations: The SESRI members are involved in a range of
        national and international networks and collaborations, and they make a substantial
        contribution to the discipline through their involvement in professional and learned
        societies. Examples include: Murphy is a member of the UK Chief Medical Officer’s
        (CMO’s) expert advisory group on physical activity and board member of the International
        Society of Physical Activity and Health (ISPAH) and Vice-President of HEPA-Europe.
        Murphy also sits on the Department of Communities Strategic Board within the Northern
        Ireland Government. Murphy’s involvement with the UK government in this capacity has
        contributed toward a high-quality impact case study in this REF cycle. Davison is an invited
        member of the Finnish National Academy of Science, Advisory Board member of Vertex
        Pharmaceuticals (USA), and research exercise physiology lead at the Automobile Touring
        Club-UAE; Wallace is Biomechanics advisor to The R&A Rules Ltd, European Disabled
        Golf Association, and the European Tour Performance Institute; Liston is a founding
        member of the Women in Sport Research Group at Sport Ireland; Kitchin is a member of
        the Irish Football Association’s Disability Access Working Group; Breslin is Chair of the
        Wellbeing in Sport Action Plan Research Group in Sport Northern Ireland, and a member
        the British Psychological Society Task Force Committee responsible for guidance on
        managing COVID-related anxiety when returning to the workplace. Carlin and Murphy lead
        the ISPAH Global Physical Activity Observatory Country Card for Northern Ireland and the
        Active Kids Alliance Children & Youth Physical Activity Report Card for Ireland (all-island).

    •   World-Leading National and International Collaborations: SESRI members are
        involved in collaborative research on a national and international scale (n>20). Examples
        of individual collaborations with international and national centres of excellence include
        those by Davison (August Pi i Sunyer Biomedical Research Institute Spain, University of
        Oslo, University of Cambridge); Kitchin (Australian Centre for Olympic Studies Sydney,
        Sport Business Research Centre Birkbeck College London, and UNESCO); Hassan
        (Griffith University and University of Technology, Australia). Staff holding Visiting
        Professor positions at a range of national and international universities including, Hassan
        at Loughborough University; Wallace at Loughborough University; Murphy at Edinburgh,
        Bristol, Deakin, and Breslin at the University of Nevada. These partnerships have led to a
        number of joint initiatives, including research projects, funding applications, high-quality
        research publications, research student supervision, and research impact nationally and
        internationally. For example, collaboration by Murphy with colleagues at Public Health
        England, Sport Ireland, Sport NI and Student Sport Ireland have led to a number of
        research publications, whilst Wallace’s collaboration with The R&A Rules Ltd led to three
        prestigious CAST PhD studentship awards and joint publications. A collaboration by
        Breslin has led to (1) the development of an international consensus statement on
        psychosocial and policy recommendations on impact health and sport, (2) the
        development of a six-year national wellbeing in Sport Action Plan, thus providing the
        basis for a world-leading impact case study.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Other Discipline-Based Relationships include the American College of Sports Medicine
        (Fellows – Davison, Murphy; member McClean, Wallace), British Association of Sport and
        Exercise Sciences (Fellow – Murphy), North American Society for the Psychology of
        Sport and Physical Activity, British Psychological Society (Breslin); European Sport
        Management Association, and The Football Collective (Kitchin); Nutrition Society and
        Sport and Exercise Nutrition Register (McNeilly); The Physiological Society and
        Genetics Society (Davison); The North American Society for the Sociology of Sport
        (Hassan); The International Society for Biomechanics in Sports, the International Sports
        Engineering Association (Wallace).

    •   Journal Editorships and Grant Committees: The SESRI members provide service to
        the discipline through their contribution to managing and assessing the quality of research
        outputs by way of editorial roles across the Sport and Exercise Sciences. Examples
        include: Physiology and Nutrition Executive Editor Journal of Sports Sciences, Associate
        Editor Frontiers in Physiology, Editorial Board World Journal of Diabetes, Guest Editor
        Antioxidants (Davison); Advisory Board Journal of Sports Sciences, Associate Editor
        BioMed Central Public Health, Associate Editor International Journal of Behavioural
        Nutrition and Physical Activity (Murphy); Associate Editor Managing Sport & Leisure,
        Editorial Board International Journal of Sports Management and Marketing, International
        Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship (Kitchin); Biomechanics Executive Editor
        Journal of Sports Sciences, Editorial Board Journal of Sports Engineering and Technology
        (Wallace); Advisory Board Journal of Sports Sciences (McClean); Editorial Board Soccer
        and Society, Advisory Board Impumulelo, Guest Editor African Historical Review and Sport
        in Society, former member of the Economic and Social Research Council, and Peer
        Review College (Darby); Editor-in-Chief Human Figurations, Editorial Board Irish Journal
        of Sociology (Liston); Deputy Executive Academic Editor Sport in Society, Editorial Board
        Soccer and Society (Hassan); Editorial Board Journal of Public Mental Health, International
        Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology Reviews, Case Studies in Sport and Exercise
        Psychology (Breslin). SESRI members also act as reviewers for competitive grants for
        national and international organisations such as the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences
        Research Council, Medical Research Council, Heart UK, Diabetes UK (Davison); Northern
        Ireland Chest, Heart and Stroke (Murphy); National University of Ireland Post-Doctoral
        Fellowships in the Humanities, Horizon2020-Marie Sklodowska Curie COFUND
        programme (Darby); Economic and Social Research Council (Breslin).

 SESRI members have made a Significant Contribution to the Economy, Society and Industry
 through active engagement and participation in government policy agendas and other activities:

    •   In the first initiative of its kind in the UK, Murphy and Liston contributed towards the
        Northern Ireland Assembly’s Research and Information Service by delivering a keynote
        address (on Physical Activity and Gender) to elected representatives of the NI devolved
        government and policy makers as part of the Knowledge Exchange Seminar series
        (KESS). Moreover, Murphy and Carlin presented to the KESS examining physical activity
        patterns in adolescent females (February 2018). Hassan delivered a keynote address to
        KESS examining a range of societal effects of participation in sport.

    •   Breslin delivered keynote addresses to the Teachers Union on mental health and wellbeing
        in sport (Sept 2019), and on physical activity and wellbeing to the Northern Irish
        Government as part of the British Psychological Society community engagement series of
        lectures (2014). As part of an impact case study returned in this REF cycle and aligned to
        the local Governments’ Wellbeing in Sport Action Plan (2019-2026), Breslin and Haughey
        delivered 59 mental health awareness workshops across a range of sports.

    •   McClean delivered an invited keynote to staff from the Department of Justice as part of
        their Health and Wellness initiative (2019).



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Darby, Kitchin and Liston hosted two Economic and Social Research Council Festival of
        Social Science workshops (2018, 2019). This ESRC Festival incorporates 300 events with
        34 UK partners.

    •   Significant International contributions include Davison’s involvement with the Automobile
        Touring Club-UAE motorsport programme (Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Muscat-Oman), while Darby
        was involved in a range of high-level impact generating initiatives such as collaborative
        research funded by UNICEF UK on the protection of children’s rights in the global football
        industry. The research was presented to UNICEF global staff via an internal webinar event
        (May 2019), a closed football industry event in London (May 2019), and to senior staff at
        FIFA Headquarters in Zurich (June 2019). This work will form the basis of an impact case
        study in the next REF cycle. Wallace has made a significant, and impactful contribution to
        The R&A and the United States Golf Association Distance Insights Report (2020) that
        examines impact of driving distance to support a sustainable future for golf.

    •   SESRI members regularly provide research informed expert commentary to the broader
        local, national and international media and other cultural outlets. Researchers have
        engaged in documentaries and debates on national radio and television programmes such
        as BBC Radio Ulster; BBC Radio 4; UTV Radio; RTE Radio; Newstalk Radio; The One
        Show (BBC); Spotlight (BBC); ‘Trust me I’m a Doctor’ (BBC); ‘Food Unwrapped’ (Channel
        4). Carlin, Murphy, Liston, Matthews, Shannon and Breslin have made a significant
        contribution to the RTE Brainstorm initiative where the academic and research community
        contribute to public debate, while reflecting on local and global societal issues.
        Internationally, SESRI staff regularly bring their research expertise to bear on radio,
        television and print media including: BBC World Service; Sky News; Khaleej Times; Gulf
        News; The Washington Post; NBC Sports; Der Spiegel International; Boston Globe.




                                                                                          Page 14
