Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 25, Area Studies

 Section 1: Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 1.1 Overview
 UoA25 comprises 18 (16.7FTE) research-active staff in the Department of American & Canadian
 Studies (ACS). The Department’s postgraduate and early career researchers play a key role in
 maintaining the field’s research strength and sustainability. Within the REF period, the
 Department hosted 3 Leverhulme-funded postdoctoral fellows and 1 AHRC-funded early career
 research associate, 3 of whom have successfully gone on to permanent academic
 appointments. Situated in the School of Cultures, Languages, and Area Studies (CLAS), in the
 Faculty of Arts, ACS conducts multi- and interdisciplinary research in North American history,
 politics, foreign policy, literature, print culture, visual culture, and music. The Department
 organises its scholarship, grant capture, and impact through three research clusters: Print and
 Visual Culture; Race and Rights; and Politics and Foreign Policy. Each cluster’s academic
 lead reports to the Department’s Research Director, and each organises conferences, visiting
 speakers, and public engagement activities. Since REF2014, two major transformational
 initiatives have resulted from the Department’s scaling up of its research in race and rights. i)
 Trodd’s leadership of the Rights Lab, one of six University of Nottingham Beacons of
 Excellence, which conducts research on modern global slavery (REF5a 2.1b; ICS1). ii) Salt’s
 research on race, systems of governance, and decision-making led to her leading role in
 transforming how universities, UK funding bodies, and third-sector organisations engage with
 Black and Minority Ethnic communities (ICS2). ACS is the largest department of its kind in
 Europe and aims to set research agendas and foster excellence in American and Canadian
 studies research, knowledge exchange, and impact.

 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims during assessment period
 Since REF2014 the Department has successfully achieved its strategic goals and laid
 foundations for future successes. Research cluster vitality is evident: each has secured research
 awards (see 3.1), with 23 research grants totalling £1.38m in research income, a 60% increase
 on awards of £860k reported for REF2014. The Department has produced 11 monographs, 60
 journal articles, 39 book chapters, 7 edited collections and special issues and collaborated with
 dozens of local, national, and international partners (see 4). Specific REF2014 aims have been
 achieved as follows:

 i) Advancement and consolidation of research specialisms and interdisciplinarity
 The Print and Visual Culture research cluster’s wide range of publications include two
 landmark outputs: Lewthwaite’s AHRC-supported A Contested Art: Modernism and Mestizaje in
 New Mexico, winner of the 2016 British Association for American Studies Annual Book Prize;
 and Trodd and Bernier’s Picturing Frederick Douglass, the first comprehensive visual analysis of
 the most photographed American of the 19th century. The cluster strengthened a new research
 strand in 19th-century American print culture, resulting in key publications: Thompson’s Herman
 Melville; Pethers’s and Bernier’s co-edited 750-page Edinburgh Companion to Nineteenth-
 Century American Letters and Letter-Writing; and Vandome’s ‘American Scientists and their
 Fictions.’

 The establishment of the Centre for Research in Race and Rights (C3R) in 2013, enhanced
 ACS’s engagement with and leadership of University-wide strategic initiatives, enabled
 significant increases in grant capture (see 3.1), instigated new external collaborations, and
 developed partnerships with the wider academic community at Nottingham and beyond (see 4).
 Trodd’s appointment supplemented existing staff research (Bernier, Ling, and Monteith).
 Monteith and Trodd co-founded and directed C3R and worked with external collaborators to
 extend C3R’s reach to encompass modern slavery, antislavery, and civil rights. Under the
 auspices of the University’s Global Research Themes (REF5a 2.1(a)), Trodd built on the
 success of C3R to co-found and direct a university-wide Research Priority Area (RPA) in Rights,

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Justice and Global Challenges (2014-19), supported by internal investment of £330k for
 research in the fields of human rights, civil rights, criminal justice, social, and economic justice.
 This new cross-faculty collaboration provided a strong foundation to enable Trodd to lead a
 successful bid to make slavery and civil rights the focus of one of the University’s six Beacons of
 Excellence investments (REF5a 2.1b, investment of £8m). The Rights Lab research beacon
 addresses United Nations sustainable development goal 8.7, which seeks to eradicate forced
 labour, modern slavery, and human trafficking. Under Trodd’s direction, The Rights Lab has
 undertaken innovative transdisciplinary research, including projects on: anti-trafficking and
 antislavery using satellite technology; building evidence for effective antislavery governance; and
 the effects of COVID-19 on modern slavery survivors. Academics from all five of the University’s
 faculties collaborate on data, business, survivors, and governance research programmes. The
 Rights Lab works with a global community of policymakers, civil society actors, and businesses.

 Salt’s appointment in 2016, and her co-directorship of C3R, helped develop research, grant, and
 impact activity in new directions, and produced key publications, including Salt’s The Unfinished
 Revolution. With her expertise on race, rights, and policy Salt developed research addressing
 diversity and inclusion in higher education institutions, third-sector organisations and funding
 institutions (e.g. UKRI). From 2019, Rottenberg took over co-directorship of the Centre (with
 Gust, History). Her research on feminism (key publications include The Rise of Neoliberalism
 Feminism) extended C3R’s remit to encompass gender and intersectional rights.

 The Politics and Foreign Policy research cluster has continued to produce high-quality
 research outputs, notably Ryan’s Full Spectrum Dominance and Sewell’s The U.S. and Latin
 America; Ling’s second edition of Martin Luther King, Jr., Phelps’s co-authored monograph on
 American Radicals. Ryan and Sewell co-edited Foreign Policy at the Periphery. McGarr, Sewell,
 and Ryan published 24 articles and book chapters on American foreign policy, including on the
 US ‘War on Terror,’ Cold War policy and the Indian subcontinent, George Bush, and John Foster
 Dulles.

 ii) Building strength in the University’s archival collections as a basis for individual and
 collaborative research
 In the assessment period significant acquisitions to strengthen the research environment include
 access to news and media archives, e.g. African American Newspapers and ProQuest Historical
 Newspapers, and individual issue archives for The Nation, The New Republic, Washington Post,
 Los Angeles Times, and Times of India, especially facilitating the Print and Visual Culture
 cluster‘s work on nineteenth-century print (Pethers, Thompson, Vandome); research in the
 Politics and Foreign Policy cluster, including Phelps’s American Radicals and McGarr’s essays;
 and cross-cluster collaboration such as Maxey and McGarr’s co-edited India at 70.

 iii) Appointments to support the Department’s interdisciplinary strengths and expertise
 See 2.1 below.

 1.3 Impact
 Significant institutional support, staff incentivisation, and grant capture (see 3.1, 3.2), has
 enabled the Department to achieve its strategic goals for impact in three respects. i) to embed
 research impact and public engagement as a founding principle of C3R. Both ICSs derive
 from underpinning research in race and rights, build on local collaborations (see 4.3), and scale
 up research to work with national collaborators (Tate, Runnymede Trust, UKRI in ICS2) and
 international organisations (the UN, multinational NGOs in ICS1) to extend impact reach. ii) to
 continue to integrate post-graduate students into the department’s culture of impact and
 public engagement. All PGRs complete compulsory training in KE and impact via the Arts
 Researcher Skills Programme, and the Rights Lab (ICS1), Rights and Justice RPA and C3R
 (ICS2) have given PGRs experience in KE and impact work: Jeffrey and Schrader as Rights Lab
 Research Fellows; Wright as Rights Lab Student Internship Coordinator and Rights and Justice
 RPA Postgraduate Co-Director; Pearce as Postgraduate Director for C3R, working on event
 management and social media publicity. iii) to capitalise on the appointments of honorary
 professors to stimulate extra-academic debate and activity. Trodd’s collaboration on

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 modern slavery projects with honorary professor Kevin Bales (2013-16) (subsequently appointed
 to UoN School of Politics and International Relations in 2016) underpinned grant awards (see
 3.1) and their impact components leading to ICS1.

 Our robust strategy fosters emergent impact across the Department, including Phelps’s
 knowledge exchange activity (see 4.3), Rottenberg’s collaborations on contemporary caring (see
 4.1), and policy work stemming from Ryan’s secondment to the Foreign and Commonwealth
 Office (see 1.5).

 1.4 Open Research, Ethics, and Integrity
 The unit supports the open research agenda in alignment with the University’s approach to
 open research (REF5a 2.3). School Research Committee oversees implementation of UoN’s
 policies on open access and research data management and ethics. Support for UKRI grant
 applicants’ data management plans is provided by the Library and the Digital Transformations
 Hub. PGRs are also supported to complete data management plans. The unit has embraced
 opportunities for openly sharing knowledge. Going beyond the minimum standards for open
 access required by the REF, Maxey’s monograph South Asian Atlantic Literature, 1970-2010
 (2012) is available through Open Access (http://www.oapen.org/search?identifier=625260);
 Salt’s The Unfinished Revolution was first published as a free, open access book
 (http://www.oapen.org/search?identifier=1004127). Trodd’s work on the AHRC-supported ‘Anti-
 Slavery Usable Past’ project (see ICS1) made publicly available a digital archive of c1200
 contemporary slave narratives (www.antislavery.ac.uk).

 Institutional policies on research ethics (REF5a 2.4), including the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, govern all our work. The Department seeks to enable research of the utmost
 quality, integrity, and openness (REF5a 2.4), overseen by the School Ethics Officer who sits on
 School Research Committee. ‘Research Ethics’ are a standing Research Committee agenda
 item and thus embedded in the School’s research governance structure. The School Ethics
 Officer advises and trains staff and PGR students in ethics and safe handling and storage of
 data, including GDPR. Research or impact activities involving human subjects or their data are
 submitted for ethical approval by Faculty Ethics Officers before any work begins.

 The School produces a yearly research integrity report as part of the University’s annual
 monitoring process. PGR students additionally benefit from Arts-specific Research Integrity
 training, administered by the Researcher Academy. Academic misconduct is dealt with in
 accordance with UoN policy. In 2019-20 Salt pro-actively led the promotion of research integrity
 as a member of the External Advisory Group who supported the research and publication of
 UKRI’s ‘Research Integrity: A Landscape Study’
 (https://www.ukri.org/files/legacy/documents/research-integrity-main-report/) and contributed to a
 webinar on research integrity in July 2020 (https://ukrio.org/events/webinar-series/webinar-
 series-2020/).

 1.5 Future Research and Impact Strategy (2020-25)
 The Department will build on its research and impact successes to consolidate proven areas of
 strength outlined in 1.2, and to identify new opportunities. The Department aims to:

 i) support colleagues at all career stages to produce excellent individual, impactful research
 sustain our strong record of supporting future research leaders, through new ECR
 appointments, postdoctoral fellowships, and promotion
 ii) continue investing in a thriving postgraduate research community, ensuring vitality and
 diversity through wider recruitment (e.g. to the new Black Studies programme), and enhanced
 support for research and impact training
 iii) further embed an equitable, inclusive, and positive research culture
 iv) continue investing in the development of research, KE and impact excellence in the
 Department, both in existing areas of achievement (e.g. C3R to Rights Lab Beacon) and in
 other/new research clusters
 v) continue to facilitate high-quality research and impact through grant capture at all career


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stages, for both excellent individual projects, and collaborative initiatives
 vi) maximize the benefits of interdisciplinary research in order to respond to societal challenges,
 e.g. rights and justice, public health and social cohesion
 vii) to expand Open Access capacity, in line with UKRI’s 2020 review

 Our three clusters will drive a research culture that enables every researcher to produce high-
 quality research outputs and impact with comprehensive support for academic development.

 In Print and Visual Culture, Heffernan will edit a new 2-volume history of American popular
 culture for Cambridge University Press (CUP). Planned monographs include Hutchison on
 Stoner-author John Williams, Maxey on American life writing, Pethers on temporality and print
 culture in early America, Roberts on postcolonial film adaptation, and Thompson on print media
 history. Staff research will continue to develop our strengths in 20th-century intellectual history
 (Hutchison, Phelps, and Vandome) and contemporary literature and culture (Hutchison,
 Lewthwaite, Maxey, Roberts, and Rottenberg).

 In Race and Rights, Trodd will continue to work on survivor narratives as part of the Rights Lab
 and undertake cutting-edge, interdisciplinary research and national and international impact
 work on antislavery. Miller will continue work on the US criminal justice system, leading to a
 monograph on Florida’s death row history. Rottenberg will continue to develop collaborative
 research networks straddling humanities and the social sciences, and transform her North
 American gender politics research into impactful projects on care and caring in the contemporary
 world. Planned grant applications include to the Nuffield Foundation and to the Independent
 Social Research Foundation (both 2020).

 In Politics and Foreign Policy, building on longstanding strengths in 20th- and 21st-century
 American foreign policy and the place of the US as a global power, future work includes Sewell’s
 AHRC-funded network on ‘US & the World Scholarship’ (2020-22, COVID-delayed) and Ryan’s
 continuing (0.6FTE) secondment as ‘Senior US Analyst’ in the Americas section of the Foreign
 and Commonwealth Office (2019-2021), undertaking research on contemporary US foreign
 affairs and providing impactful advice and analysis to policymakers. McGarr will complete Spying
 in South Asia: Britain, the United States and India’s Secret Cold War (CUP, 2022). An edited
 collection based on Phelps and Vandome’s Faculty of Arts-funded ‘Marx and Marxism in the
 United States’ symposium (May 2019) will appear in 2021 with Manchester University Press
 (MUP). Phelps and Vandome will also work on intellectual biographies of political radicals
 Samuel D. Schmalhausen and Joseph Freeman respectively.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and Recruitment Strategy
 The Department’s staffing and recruitment strategy is aligned to the Faculty of Arts strategic
 aims to i) recruit, retain and develop excellent researchers using fair and inclusive selection
 and appointment practices and clear and transparent merit-based recognition; and ii) enable
 every researcher to produce high-quality research outputs and impact with comprehensive
 support for academic development within an emerging open research environment. The unit
 comprises 18 staff (16.7FTE) (20 in REF2014). Three retired professors (Ashworth, Messent,
 and Newman) retain links as Emeriti. Two staff moved to other HEIs (Bernier, Monteith),
 replaced by two new permanent appointments, which also enabled succession planning for
 C3R. Salt expanded the unit’s expertise in African American and Afrodiasporic culture to cover
 Haiti and the Caribbean, and extended the unit’s impact strategy into the fields of diversity and
 inclusion through positions on the AHRC advisory board and EPSRC- and ESRC- funded
 research projects. Rottenberg reinforces the unit’s expertise in social rights and justice and
 extends expertise in gender and feminism to American and global popular culture, again
 strengthening focus on the US and Canada and their global contexts. Both appointments
 ensured succession planning for C3R. Asquith, in post at census date, is now Research
 Associate on the GCRF-funded ‘Antislavery Knowledge Network.’ Project (Liverpool).


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Staff Development Strategy
 Guided by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and enabled by
 UoN’s Building a Culture for Success framework (see REF5a 3.1), the Department has three
 main aims for staff development:

 i) To encourage the career development of the next generation of academics and sustain
 the discipline’s health. Continuing the Department’s outstanding record, participation in the
 Leverhulme ECF scheme supported 3 postdoctoral fellows (Durkin, McGettigan, Asquith) and
 Donington, post-doctoral researcher on the AHRC-funded Anti-Slavery Usable Past project.
 Three of these ECRs secured permanent posts at UK HEIs: Durkin (Newcastle), McGettigan
 (Royal Holloway), Donington (London South Bank). Three two-year Honorary Research
 Fellowships were awarded to recent PhD students and research assistants (Pickford, De
 Cristofaro, Guijt), to help them transition to academic careers. In 2020, recent PhD students
 Eastwood and Hughes were awarded 9-month CLAS postdoctoral bursaries, which included
 library, space, computing and other facilities, and academic mentor support. The Department
 provides a mentoring scheme for ECRs, post-doctoral students, and new members of staff. Staff
 have an individual yearly research allowance (see 3.2).

 ii) To support all staff, irrespective of their career stage, in their personal growth as
 scholars, practitioners, collaborators, and leaders. Career development support is offered in
 a variety of ways. At a University-level the Leadership and Management Academy and Central
 Short Courses programmes offer training and mentoring to support individuals to develop their
 careers. Since 2016, the Faculty of Arts has run an Arts Research Leadership Programme. It
 enables scholars to make the transition from individually excellent researcher to research leader
 in the Faculty and beyond. The programme helps participants to: develop career planning;
 navigate changes to the internal and external research environments: and mentor and inspire
 colleagues. Lewthwaite, McGarr, Miller, Phelps, and Roberts have all completed this
 programme. The unit also encourages staff to seek research leadership development with
 external bodies. McGarr was a participant in the AHRC’s Engaging with Government
 Programme in 2016 and held a British Science Association Media Fellowship in 2017. Trodd
 completed the University-wide Research Leaders Programme (2014-15), which aims to
 support the development and advancement of identified key academics in their strategic
 research leadership roles. Trodd’s leadership of the Rights Lab Beacon demonstrates the
 scheme’s effectiveness. At Departmental level the Research Director offers individuals guidance
 about research projects and appropriate funding sources, with additional specialist support
 provided by the Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS; see 3.2). Annual individual Appraisal and
 Development Conversations (in line with University guidelines, REF5a 3.1) and separate
 research interviews (see 3.2) provide opportunities to discuss and plan careers, research
 training needs, and long-term aspirations at all career stages.

 The success of these and other structures described in 3.2 below is evident in a series of staff
 promotions. Of the unit’s 18 staff members, 8 (5 women and 3 men) were promoted during
 this REF period: Roberts, Lewthwaite, Maxey and Salt to Associate Professor, and Miller to
 Professor; McGarr and Sewell to Associate Professor, and Thompson to Professor.

 iii) To ensure that all staff have sufficient time to undertake research and are given the
 mentoring necessary to set research priorities and secure internal and external funding.
 The School Research Committee operates a robustly scrutinised study-leave scheme that
 appraises applications in the year preceding the planned leave. School policy gives each staff
 member (including part-time staff) one semester's research leave in every seven. Seven ACS
 colleagues (Ling, Lewthwaite, Monteith, Roberts, Sewell, Thompson, Trodd) also benefited from
 the Faculty of Arts Pro-Vice-Chancellor’s Fund, awarded on a competitive basis, to extend one
 semester of study leave to a full year, to finish major research outputs (see 3.2). Both School
 leave and the Faculty Pro-Vice-Chancellor’s Fund are also available to support impact activity as
 well as work on outputs.

 Facilitating impact and knowledge exchange (KE) with external organisations

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department benefits from UoN’s status as a UK leader in impact and KE (see REF5a 2.2).
 Projects promising significant impact receive dedicated support from the Faculty’s Research
 Development team and KE and Impact officer (located in CAS) and the Department’s academic
 Impact lead. Assistance includes the opportunity to access KE seed-corn funding for
 collaborative projects through a Faculty-led Arts Impact Accelerator Account.

 2.3 Research Students
 Our 30 PGRs are integral to the unit’s research culture, and staff have played vital roles in PGR
 development and success across the wider School, Faculty and Midlands region: Pethers is
 Director of Postgraduate Studies for CLAS; Thompson served as Graduate School Associate
 Dean (2015-19); Monteith was founding director (2014-18) of the Midlands-wide AHRC-funded
 doctoral partnership—Midlands3Cities (M3C).

 Recruitment and studentships
 In the current REF cycle, the Department awarded 37 doctoral degrees (33 in REF2014). The
 Race & Rights cluster research yielded the creation of a new Black Studies PhD programme,
 the first of its kind in Europe, which began recruiting in 2017 and currently has 6 registered
 students.

 The AHRC-funded M3C (2014-19: led by Nottingham), was a key strategic development that
 secured funding for a significant uplift in studentships from the AHRC with 1-to-1 match funding
 commitment from each consortium partner. The success of Monteith’s directorship and
 consortium development laid a foundation enabling her successor to submit the top-ranked
 application in the AHRC’s DTP2 competition (REF5a 3.3). The Midlands4Cities DTP (M4C) was
 awarded the largest allocation of studentships, again with 1-to-1 match funding. M3C/M4C has
 created a collaborative environment across the Midlands-based consortium and plays a major
 role in the future sustainability of research in American and Canadian Studies. Staff in the
 Department have co-supervised PhDs with colleagues in Birmingham, Leicester and Nottingham
 Trent, and with Nottingham colleagues in Classics and Archaeology, History, Politics and
 International Relations, and Sociology and Social Policy.

 M3C/M4C funded 28 students admitted to the Department between 2014-20. The unit is also
 now ESRC-accredited and able to participate in the University of Nottingham’s Midlands
 Graduate School (MGS, led by Warwick), one of 14 ESRC funded Doctoral Training
 Partnerships. In addition, students have been funded by 6 School scholarships and 8 University-
 funded awards, including schemes for EU and International students. The unit also awarded 19
 MRes research degrees, 9 of whom went on to PhD study in the unit.

 Monitoring and support towards progress and successful completion
 The sustained success of our doctoral degree awards results from effective supervision,
 monitoring, and support overseen by the CLAS Research Committee and consistent with
 University processes (REF5a 3.3). All students are co-supervised, often on a 50-50 basis.
 Supervisors provide at least 10 supervisions per year (6 for part-time students). Outcomes and
 action points from supervisions are formally recorded. All PGRs take part in an annual review
 process. Assessors determine whether students continue their studies or submit to further
 review before their progression is confirmed or their registration terminated. A dedicated School
 Postgraduate Student Advisor deals with serious pastoral matters such as maternity leave
 arrangements, caring responsibilities, bereavement and severe ill health, following policies
 formulated in the University’s Quality Manual.

 Integration into the research culture and preparation for further research
 PGRs benefit from weekly work-in-progress seminars, and present and discuss their research at
 least once each academic year. Invited speakers run additional dedicated seminars for PGRs
 where possible (e.g., Annette Gordon Reid, Nelson Lichtenstein, Jonathan Bell). School
 Research Committee and the University’s Researcher Academy fund research and conference
 trips. M3C/M4C-funded students also have access to research funding from the DTP through its


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cohort Development and Student Development Funds. These resources have facilitated PGR
 research and conference attendance in the US and Canada as well as in the UK and Europe.

 PGRs are encouraged and supported to run their own conferences, e.g. in 2015, ‘Money Talks:
 Inequality and North American Identity’ (Hamilton, Pearce, H Murray) and ‘Workers of all Lands
 Unite? Working-Class Nationalism and Internationalism Until 1945’ (Costaguta, Moody, Tiplady),
 which resulted in a co-edited book (2018). PGRs have also gained experience on paid
 placements to support C3R activities (see 1.3). They have dedicated shared office space, IT and
 social facilities, and administrative support from the School, and organise reading groups (e.g.
 on gender, digital culture, 19th-century print, Marxism) with other PGRs and staff in the School
 and Faculty.

 The annual American Studies retreat, which began as a unit-sponsored event in 2015,
 enables students to develop academically, professionally, and socially by living and working
 together for a week away from the university campus. Academic staff (Heffernan, Lewthwaite,
 Pethers, Phelps, Roberts, Thompson, Trodd) participate in various intellectual and professional
 development activities as part of the retreat, including intensive work-in-progress sessions,
 reading groups on specific issues affecting the discipline, and exercises in module design. Since
 2017, funding from M3C/M4C and from the British Association for American Studies has opened
 the retreat to students from across the M3C/M4C consortium, a model successfully adopted by
 another M3C/M4C research network, the Digital Culture Research Network, based at
 Nottingham.

 Staff encourage and mentor postgraduate applications for external funding. In addition to 23
 research and travel grants, major successes include 3 AHRC International placements at
 the Library of Congress (Brooks, Eastwood, Weightman); a Gilder Lehrman Centre Fellowship at
 Yale University (H-R Murray); an Agnese N. Haury Fellowship in Cold War Studies at New York
 University (Tiplady); a Filson Historical Society Fellowship in Kentucky (Gallo); and a Baird
 Society Resident Scholar Academic Appointment with the Smithsonian (Jeffrey). Postgraduates
 have published essays in journals including ELH (Hughes), the European Journal of American
 Studies (Bailey), Critique (Monkman), Economic & Industrial Democracy (Moody), and Women’s
 Studies (Wright), as well as other essays in edited collections. PGRs in the unit have also played
 a vital role in organising postgraduate activities and events for the British Association for
 American Studies at the national level, by editing the Association’s postgraduate journal—US
 Studies Online (Green, Offiler)—and acting as Postgraduate Representative for the association
 (Wright).

 Support for research students’ skills development and career preparation
 PGRs access an excellent range of research training opportunities (REF5a 3.3) through two
 main avenues. First, the Research Academy’s Arts Faculty Researcher Skills Programme, which
 conforms to national standards set out in Vitae’s ‘Researcher Development Framework’ and the
 AHRC’s ‘Research Training Framework’, and offers courses covering a range of topics from
 managing research projects to impact, research governance, and ethics, and from
 methodologies such as archival and digital research to writing, networking, and communication
 skills (in 2018-19, 46 such courses ran). Forms of training for diverse careers include placement
 opportunities provided by Postgraduate Placements Nottingham (COVID-affected in 2020).

 Second, the Midlands Arts Programme is available to AHRC M4C-funded PGRs. This research
 and employability training draws on all eight M4C universities and encourages PGRs to establish
 non-academic and academic networks and to reflect on the changing status of arts and
 humanities researchers in the twenty-first century. M4C Student Development and Cohort
 Development Funds support additional types of research and employability training such as work
 placements and field trips. M4C students benefit from the Research Training Support Grant for
 overseas study visits with a training dimension.

 Evidence for the success of the unit’s supervision, mentoring, and training of doctoral students
 can be seen in their career destinations. Since REF2014, 8 graduates have gained permanent

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic posts: Sykes (Birmingham), Lennon (Coventry), Williams (Hull), Assella (Kelaniya,
 Sri Lanka, Bishop (Lincoln), Pickford (Lausanne), H. Murray (Liverpool), and Offiler (Sheffield
 Hallam). They also go on to prestigious post-doctoral fellowships: 2 Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowships at the University of Edinburgh (Jeffrey, H-R Murray); 1 at the University of Warwick
 (Hughes); a two-year Fritz Thyssen Foundation research fellowship at the University of Warwick
 (Schrader); a three-year Wellcome Trust Fellowship at the University of Northumbria (De
 Cristofaro); and a year-long Fellowship at the Rothermere American Institute, Oxford (Wright).
 Offiler is Associate Editor of the Journal of American Studies—the leading European American
 studies journal, joining 3 earlier PGRs from the Department (Moynihan, Witham, Feghali) to form
 the journal editorial team.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
 In line with UoN’s equal opportunities policy, members of the Department are treated solely
 on the basis of their merits and abilities (see REF5a 3.5). The unit has 18 research staff
 (16.7FTE): 9 women and 9 men, 1 BAME colleague, who founded the Black Studies PhD
 programme and mentored the early entrants to it; 4 international; and none with a declared
 disability. 16 are full-time permanent, 1 is 0.5 part-time, and 1 is 0.2 part-time. At census date, 2
 were Professors (1M, 1F), 9 Associate Professors (4M, 5F), 6 Assistant Professors (3M, 3F),
 and 1 Postdoctoral Fellow (F). 2 of the 3 Department heads during the REF cycle have been
 women. Emeriti continue to play a part in the unit’s research culture by attending visiting speaker
 events and conferences, and continue to publish, e.g. King, Arendt and America (2015);
 Newman, Utopia and Terror in Contemporary American Fiction (2015).

 Department research strengths in the history and legacy of North American racial, ethnic, and
 gender inequality inform the unit’s commitment to the University’s EDI Strategic Delivery Plan
 (REF5a, 3.5), the School’s Athena Swan action plan (Bronze award, 2018), and the School EDI
 Committee’s priorities. Maxey served as School EDI Director (2017-20), reporting to Head of
 School and to School Research Committee, where EDI is a standing item. She was succeeded
 by Roberts (2020-). The Department has fully implemented the recommendations of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The Director of Research
 supports ECR career development opportunities. For instance, Donington was mentored to a
 British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (2015). All 4 of the unit’s externally funded
 early career post-doctoral researchers in the current REF cycle were women.

 Flexible working for staff is available: Asquith returned to her Leverhulme ECR at 0.5 after
 maternity leave; a reduction to 0.2 allowed Salt’s secondment to UKRI (see 4.3); and Trodd is
 seconded to the Rights Lab with a full-time replacement. Statutory paternity leave cover was
 arranged for two colleagues (Pethers, Vandome). Staff on research leave are kept informed
 about research seminars and visiting speakers. Support for colleagues returning from leave,
 managing long-term illness, or with caring responsibilities includes paid Keeping in Touch days,
 where desired; phased return options (e.g. to part-time in the first instance); timetabling blocks
 on certain hours/days; return-to-work meetings with line manager, plus appropriate ongoing
 support (e.g. regular meetings, targeted mentoring). All staff complete online unconscious bias
 training, must complete training to sit on and/or chair interview panels, and are encouraged to
 receive training in EDI best practice through UoN’s Leadership and Management Academy. At
 School, Faculty, and University level, new projects, policies, committees, and activities (including
 REF) are subject to Equality Impact Assessments (EIA) in order to avoid disadvantaging those
 with protected characteristics or who are otherwise vulnerable.

 For staff and PGRs with disabilities, the UoN disability team works with individuals to ensure
 needs such as access are met, general wellbeing is monitored, and special equipment
 recommended by Occupational Health is purchased. Support for staff and PGR wellbeing is
 guided by University wellbeing and HR policies. Staff can undertake the University’s Calibre
 bespoke career development programme for disabled staff. PGRs experiencing difficulties may
 interrupt their studies and extend their thesis-pending period. To take account of COVID’s
 impacts, PGRs receive a six-month fee-free extension (and up to six-month stipend for AHRC-
 funded students) if they entered thesis pending after 29 September 2019, would have originally

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 concluded registered study between 1 March 2020 and 1 October 2021, or were registered
 prior to 1 March 2020 with end dates between 2 October 2021 and 30 September 2023.

 Research Students
 EDI is embedded at all levels of PGR activity. Staff handling PGR recruitment have completed
 Unconscious Bias and interview training. Our PGR body is diverse. Of the 37 doctoral degrees
 7% were BAME students (24% for the current cohort); 25 were awarded to home students; and
 12 to EU and international students (17F women, 20M; 4 declared a disability). M3C/M4C
 studentships offer up to 3 months’ sick pay per year and 6 months’ paid leave for parents and
 adopters. Completed PGR research topics include: ‘What it Means to Prefer Roses: Lesbian-
 Inflected Narratives in Post-2005 Toronto Theatre Productions’ (Dossetto); ‘Transatlantic
 Abolitionism and African American Activism in Britain 1835-1895’ (H-R Murray); ‘Bearing
 Witness: Contemporary Slave Narratives and the Global Antislavery Movement’ (Nicholson);
 Mythology and the Indian Diaspora in Contemporary North American Literature and Film’; and
 American Women's Prison Zines as sites of Art and Protest 1920-2017 (Wright).

 REF Submission
 REF2021 output selection followed the University’s Code of Practice and showed due regard
 for EDI issues. Individuals were invited to declare personal circumstances; none did so. All
 reviewers undertook Unconscious Bias training. All outputs in scope were read by two internal
 reviewers as part of the University’s REF Readiness Review processes and based on the criteria
 outlined in Guidance on Submissions. Final selection decisions involved discussion between the
 Head of Department (F), the School’s Director of Research (M), and the School’s EDI co-director
 (F). The portfolio of submitted outputs is in line with the unit’s gender and seniority profile: 17F,
 14M; 6 by Professors (4F, 2M); 18 by Associate Professors (10F, 8M); 6 by Assistant Professors
 (2F, 4M); and 1 by a Postdoctoral Fellow (F).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Since REF2014 we have implemented new strategies and processes for increasing research
 income. Grant time allocated to FEC grant-winners (PIs and CIs) is honoured in full. The
 Department’s research awards from UK Research Councils and UK based charities in the
 current period total £1.38m, a significant increase on research income in REF2014 (£826,700)
 and RAE 2008 (£328,248). This equates to a research income per FTE of £74k, compared to
 £42k in REF2014 and £11k in 2008.

 These awards have enabled the Department to:
 i) establish Nottingham as a major research centre in race and rights: Monteith won a
 British Academy Landmark Conference Scheme Award for ‘Civil Rights Documentary Cinema
 and the 1960s: Transatlantic Conversations on History, Race and Rights’ (£25k) and a
 Leverhulme Major Fellowship, The Civil Rights Movement: A Literary History (£161K). Trodd’s
 initial work with C3R received £9.1k from the British Academy for ‘Picturing Frederick Douglass’,
 a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award on ‘Race and Rights’ (£15k), and an AHRC
 Grant for Exhibition Curating on ‘The Frederick Douglass Community’ (£4k). C3R benefited from
 Salt’s AHRC-funded work with Prof. Keri Facer, Programme Lead for AHRC’s Connected
 Communities (£36k); Salt’s AHRC Network Grant ‘Geographies of Black Protest: Usable Pasts
 and Sustainable Futures’ (£33k), part of the AHRC’s Translating Cultures programme response
 to the UN Decade of People of African Descent (2015-24); and Arts Council-funded project; and
 Arts Council-funded project ‘The Bigger Picture’ (£88.4k) investigating the impact of inter-
 generational arts programming on the experiences of exclusion and isolation within minority
 communities in Nottingham.

 ii) forge transdisciplinary, collaborative projects that address serious global challenges:
 Trodd was CI on the AHRC ‘Antislavery Usable Past’ project (total award £1.8m), which
 delivered £589.7k to the Department; CI on the ESRC ‘Modern Slavery: Meaning and
 Measurement’ (£18.7k, total award £80.7k); and CI on the ongoing University of Liverpool-led

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AHRC GCRF ‘Antislavery Knowledge Network’ (£90k, total award £1.8m). These grants have
 enabled the Faculty- and University-wide research and impact programmes led by Trodd and
 described in 1.2 and 1.3. Similarly, Salt’s work was enabled through funding as PI on an ESRC
 Research Grant ‘The Trust Map’ (£133k, total award £984k); CI on the EPSRC-funded projects
 ‘STEMM CHANGE: Uncovering Barriers to Inclusivity and Transforming Institutional Culture’
 (£26k, total award £523k); and CI on ‘eBase: Evidence-Base; growing the Big Grant Club’
 (£29.4k). She is also CI on the ESRC funded ‘CuRAtOR: Challenging online feaR And OtheRing’
 (£2.7k, total award £561k).

 iii) develop new research projects and directions: Monteith, Salt and Trodd, as PIs and CIs
 on awards of over £7m during the cycle (not including the AHRC DTP), have contributed to the
 expansion of Faculty and University research into new areas (see 1.2). Additionally,
 Rottenberg’s Israel Science Foundation Individual Research Grant ($82k) and Marie Curie
 Individual Fellowship (€195k) supported her work on feminism, neoliberalism, and contemporary
 culture. She has recently been awarded a Leverhulme Research Fellowship for work on
 rethinking feminist solidarity (2020-21). McGarr’s work on emotional diplomacy (£7k),
 Hutchison’s work on a critical biography of John Williams (£7k), and Roberts’s research on
 postcolonial film adaptation (£5k) have all benefited from British Academy small grants. Phelps
 won a Martin Duberman Visiting Fellowship, at the New York Public Library ($15k) for his
 research on a biography of Samuel D. Schmalhausen, Vandome won a Visiting Scholar
 Research Fellowship at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University ($2.5k) for a biography of
 Joseph Freeman, and McGarr’s research on American foreign policy was supported by a
 fellowship at the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston (£3k).

 3.2 Infrastructure & Facilities
 The Department’s research is overseen by the CLAS Research Committee, chaired by the
 School Director of Research and KE (currently Thompson), who is also a member of the Faculty
 Research and KE Board. Each year the Department’s Director of Research conducts interviews
 with all staff about short, medium, and long-term research plans (see 2.2) and reports on
 research activity and developments to the School Research Committee, which also oversees
 applications for, and receives reports on, research leave; monitors research ethics applications;
 allocates research funds from the School research budget. Staff have an individual yearly
 research allowance of £600 and can apply to the School’s Research and Conference Funds
 for up to an additional £1200 p.a. in each scheme. Total awards to Department staff in this cycle
 amount to £53.6k. Faculty incentives for research and knowledge exchange grant capture are
 built into workload planning models.

 Additional internal support through the Faculty of Arts Pro-Vice-Chancellor fund (total £42k
 2014-2020) has included vital additional leave supporting the completion of research
 monographs, including Roberts’s Discrepant Parallels, Lewthwaite’s forthcoming Scarred
 Landscapes: Place, Memory and Trauma in Caribbean Latino Art (contracted to the University of
 Oklahoma Press), Sewell’s forthcoming The Worlds of John Foster Dulles (contacted to Johns
 Hopkins University Press), and Thompson’s Herman Melville. Staff have also benefited from
 other Pro-Vice-Chancellor’s Fund awards, including support for conferences, research
 assistance, and impact (Ling, Phelps, Sewell, Vandome).

 Advice and mentorship for staff by the Department Director of Research is supplemented at
 University and Faculty level by CAS research development staff, who provide expertise in
 identifying funding opportunities, developing grant applications, fostering collaborations between
 disciplines and with non-academic partners; provide an academic peer-review mentoring
 scheme, and advice on embedding impact in research. Over the REF period, CAS support
 enabled the submission of 50 external grant applications (11F, 6M). The overall success rate
 was 26% (29%F; 20%M). Targeted CAS support will help address this slight gender imbalance
 of grant applications and help colleagues affected by COVID-19 in regaining their momentum,
 supporting the development and submission of grant applications delayed by personal
 circumstances and/or COVID restrictions on travel and archival work. ACS will provide
 intensified mentoring. Colleagues will also be invited to describe the impact of COVID in all

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internal study leave, funding, and promotion applications, impact that will be taken into account
 explicitly in decision-making.

 The scholarly infrastructure includes excellent access to academic resources. Of the
 University’s 8 libraries the Hallward Library remains the key library for Arts disciplines. For
 significant acquisitions in the current cycle see 1.2.ii. The Faculty’s Digital Transformations Hub
 supports digital teaching and research in Arts (workshops on databases, geospatial data, text
 mining, social media data mining, 3D scanning, network analysis, and an Introduction to Digital
 Humanities that runs yearly). With this support, a Department PGR (H-R Murray) was a finalist in
 the British Library Labs 2016 Competition, for work on black nineteenth-century abolitionists in
 the UK. PGR offices (shared) and staff offices (most single-occupancy) are centred in one building
 near to our main research library.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 National and International Research Collaboration
 Our research and impact collaborations with external partners regionally, nationally and
 internationally are facilitated by the University’s interdisciplinary research infrastructure (see
 1.2 and 3.2), and by Faculty and School support (2.1). Collaborative research beyond
 Nottingham is supported by School, Faculty, and University funding schemes. These have
 allowed staff to work in national and international research networks, in addition to the many
 associated with the Rights Lab Beacon (2016-22), including the Yale University Working Group
 on Modern Slavery. Sewell is a Steering Committee member of the AHRC-funded network
 ‘Writing the History of the Americas after the Global Turn’ (York, Nottingham, Sheffield, Harvard
 University, Fordham University, Northwestern University, New York University). Ryan contributes
 to ‘The Trump Project’ established at University College, Dublin in 2017. Roberts’s Leverhulme-
 funded work on the ‘Culture and the Canada-US Border’ international research network included
 members based at SUNY Buffalo, Algoma University (Ontario) and Mount Royal University
 (Alberta). Pethers is a volume editor on The Charles Brockden Brown Electronic Archive and
 Scholarly Edition project based at the University of Central Florida with advisory board members
 at 10 US universities. Rottenberg is a member of the Care Collective (2017-present)—whose
 other members come from Birkbeck, the University of East Anglia, City University—and the Care
 Economies Network (2018-present), located in the International Inequalities Institute, London
 School of Economics and Political Science. Ling is the only non-US scholar on the ‘Civil Rights
 Sites’ World Heritage Bid, led by Georgia State University.

 In its collaborative work the Department has built scholarly networks by curating more than 30
 conferences, exhibitions, and edited books and journal special issues. For instance, Monteith
 was the PI for a British Academy Landmark Conference Grant in 2016: ‘Civil Rights
 Documentary Cinema and the 1960s: Transatlantic Conversations on History, Race and Rights,’
 a 3-day event that brought together civil rights activists, documentary filmmakers, historians and
 cultural critics from the US and UK. Department staff have helped organize more than a dozen
 other conferences, at Nottingham and with colleagues elsewhere, including: the Annual
 conference of the BISA US Foreign Policy Working Group, City University, London, 2015 (Ryan);
 ‘Theorising the Canada-US Border,’ University of Kent at Paris, 2015 (Roberts); ‘The Not Yet of
 the Nineteenth-Century US,’ Exeter, 2017 (Pethers); ‘America in the Asian Century,’ Nottingham,
 2017 (McGarr); ‘In the Name of Women’s Rights, the Rise of Femonationalism,’ Goldsmiths,
 University of London, 2017 (Rottenberg); ‘Historical Fiction in the United States since 2000:
 Contemporary Responses to the Past,’ Nottingham, 2017 (Maxey), which resulted in an edited
 collection of essays (2020); ‘Sexuality, Rights, and the State,’ Nottingham, 2018 (Phelps); and
 ‘The State of the State: What is American Political History Now?’ jointly with the Department of
 History, Nottingham, 2018 (Miller, Sewell). Phelps co-edited a special issue of Labor: Studies in
 Working-Class History (2018) on journalism and Miller edited an issue of Crime, History &
 Societies on the death penalty (2017).

 The Department draws on its research networks to host a distinguished annual lecture in
 American studies and in Canadian studies. The list of speakers over the REF cycle has

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 involved 7 women, including 4 women of colour, and 4 men. American studies speakers have
 been: David Blight (Yale), Annette Gordon-Reid (Harvard), Glenda Carpio (Harvard), Manisha
 Sinha (Connecticut), John Stauffer (Harvard), Barbara Savage (Pennsylvania), and Heather Ann
 Thompson (Michigan). Canadian studies speakers have been: Annis May Timpson (Edinburgh),
 Will Straw (McGill), David Stirrup (Kent), and Audra Simpson (Columbia). These events are the
 centrepieces of our visiting speaker programme, which has seen over 100 invited talks and
 events in this REF period.

 Staff have also fostered their own research networks by delivering keynote lectures at, for
 instance, the Obama Institute for Transnational American Studies, Johannes Gutenberg
 University, Mainz (Pethers); the British Association for Canadian Studies conference, British
 Library (Roberts); the CAMEo Annual Conference, University of Leicester (Rottenberg); the
 Eleanor Roosevelt Lecture, University College London (Trodd); and the New York City of Print
 NEH Summer Institute (Thompson). In total, staff have delivered more than 200 invited talks at
 national and international venues and conferences.

 4.2 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 Staff help to sustain the discipline in several ways. First, researchers in the Department have
 served as editors of the two flagship national journals in the field, the Journal of American
 Studies (Bernier, Sewell 2015-2018) and the British Journal of Canadian Studies (Billingham
 2016-2020). Staff serve on the editorial boards of more than a dozen scholarly journals,
 including: Canadian Literature, Journal of Modern Slavery, Journal for the Study of Radicalism,
 Resilience: A Journal of the Environmental Humanities, Comparative American Studies, and
 Labor: Studies in Working-Class History. Trodd is a series editor for the ‘Slaveries Since
 Emancipation’ series (CUP) and Monteith for the Contemporary American and Canadian Writers
 series (MUP). Members of the Department routinely undertake peer-review for many leading
 scholarly journals across the field of American & Canadian Studies (e.g. American Historical
 Review, Journal of American History, Diplomatic History, Early American Literature, African
 American Review, International Journal of Canadian Studies, Film History, American Literary
 History, Journal American Studies) as well as extensive peer-review of monographs for
 academic presses (e.g. Princeton, Cambridge, Routledge, Columbia, Chicago, and
 Pennsylvania).

 Second, staff hold executive committee and board leadership roles for the British Association
 for American Studies, the British Association for Canadian American Studies, Historians Against
 Slavery, and the British Association of Nineteenth-Century Americanists. They also contribute
 their expertise to research councils and other funding bodies, nationally and internationally.
 Monteith, Roberts, Thompson, and Trodd served on the AHRC Peer Review College in the
 period. Trodd serves as a UKRI Strategic Overseas Development Assistance (ODA) College
 Member, is a member of the AHRC Global Challenges Research Fund Strategic Advisory Group
 Member, and a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada Grant Evaluator.
 Ling has been as Assessor for the ESRC/National Science Foundation SBE Directorate, Roberts
 for the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council in Canada, and Rottenberg for the
 Israel Science Foundation. Salt is a member of the AHRC's Advisory Board and advises AHRC
 Council and Executive on strategic approaches to funding. She also serves as Deputy Director
 for Research Culture and Environment at UKRI and Deputy Chair of the UKRI’s 11-member
 External Advisory Group for EDI, where she works with UKRI to gather evidence that will allow
 various UKRI teams, research councils, and partner organisations to transform research cultures
 and implement sustainable inclusion initiatives that prioritise accountability, transparency and
 evidence-based policies. Finally, staff routinely serve as PhD external examiners, and as
 external assessors in promotions processes, including professorial panels, nationally and
 internationally (e.g. Cambridge, Hull, Leeds, Cork, Columbia).

 The quality of the Department’s research has been recognised by the scholarly community in a
 number of significant awards: British Association for American Studies book prize
 (Lewthwaite); Claire Goldberg Moses Award for most innovative article in Feminist Studies
 (Rottenberg); Historians of the Twentieth Century United States Article Prize and the Labor and

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Working-Class History Association Best Article Prize (Phelps); and the Pierre Savard Award for
 best Canadian Studies monograph (Roberts).

 4.3 Economy and Society
 Members of the Department regularly contribute to the public understanding of current and
 historical events through the media. Phelps has appeared on CNN International, Al Jazeera,
 Deutsche Welle, Sky News, BBC News, BBC World News, France 24, TRT and on the radio to
 BBC 4’s ‘The World at One’, BBC World Service’s ‘NewsHour’, BBC 2’s the ‘Chris Evans
 Breakfast Show,’ the ‘Jeremy Vine Show’, and BBC 5 Live’s ‘Afternoon Edition.’ Hutchison
 appeared on BBC Radio 4’s ‘Great Lives’ and Phelps, Salt, and Thompson have appeared on
 BBC Radio 4’s ‘In Our Time.’ Staff have also contributed to online news and feature websites,
 including the Times Higher Education and Chronicle of Higher Education (Phelps, 4 articles),
 The Conversation (Rottenberg, 3 articles; Ryan, 5 articles), and Jacobin (Phelps).

 The Department makes valuable contributions to local, national, and international
 initiatives. Locally, it runs public events in collaboration with Nottingham’s key cultural
 institutions. In 2017 Monteith joined a steering group for Journey to Justice, a social justice
 movement, and hosted representatives from local community organisations at the National
 Justice Museum. The result was ‘Movements: Protest, Politics and Activism in the Twenty-First
 Century,’ a public event held at Nottingham Contemporary art gallery in July 2018. Heffernan led
 a series of American Music Listening Sessions at Nottingham Contemporary (2016-19) and
 C3R has staged many events in collaboration with Nottingham Contemporary, including the
 October Dialogues (2015-2017), an exhibition on African American Activism in Nottingham
 (2017), a film screening and conversation on Murals as Activism (2016), and 4 sessions in a
 programme on Civil Rights Photojournalism and Open Letters (2015).

 In collaboration with Nottingham’s New Art Exchange gallery, and with funding from the
 AHRC’s Connected Communities Programme, Donington and Trodd advised on and oversaw
 the creation of Nottingham's first Black community mural (2016). In 2017, in collaboration with
 the Nottingham Black Archive, the Department staged Black heritage at the gallery, and with the
 BACKLIT Art Gallery ran an event on Slave Trade Legacies: Past, Present, Future.

 At the National Justice Museum, staff contributed to the Get Up Stand Up Exhibition Dialogues
 Series: Grassroots Activism (Ling and Miller 2015). Ling gave four public talks on ‘Exploring
 Martin Luther King: A Social Justice Journey’ at Nottingham’s Afro-Caribbean National Artistic
 Centre. Monteith gave pre-show talks to the public at the Nottingham Playhouse (2016) and
 Nottingham’s Theatre Royal (2015, 2016). At Nottingham’s Broadway Cinema, staff
 organised screenings and public conversations as part of ‘Black Power at 50! A Film Festival on
 the Anniversary of Black Power’ (Trodd, 2016) and ‘India at 70’ (Maxey and McGarr, 2017).

 At a national level, Salt’s work on sustainable inclusion initiatives was described under 4.2
 Internationally, Trodd’s Rights Lab Beacon engages directly with the United Nations in their
 ambition to eradicate forced labour, modern slavery, and human trafficking, and secure the
 prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour (SDG 8.7). Trodd and Rights Lab
 members have presented research and evidence to the United Nations in New York and worked
 with international third-sector organisations and businesses.




                                                                                          Page 13
