Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The University of Wolverhampton

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design History, Practice, and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 As scholars and as a community of researchers, we seek to create the very best experiences for
 our staff and research students. Research in Art and Design at the University of Wolverhampton
 has a strong heritage and legacy of practice-led research, linking into socially-engaged practice.
 The trajectory of our research in consecutive research assessments has been positive with
 increases in both the quality and the volume of research. Here, we show how research has
 developed and been supported since 2014.


 a) How Research is Structured across the Unit

 The Unit members of eleven full-time and three part-time staff with significant responsibility for
 research belong to the Centre for Art Design Research and Experimentation (CADRE), which
 accommodates staff from the Wolverhampton School of Art (SoA). CADRE was established in
 2006 to cover the range of art and design research including fine art, digital video, and 2D and 3D
 design. Research here is mostly practice-led, as reflected in the submission of twelve practitioners
 (including CADRE’s Director, D.Harrison) and two theorists. The overall aim of CADRE is to
 explore and develop the benefits of art and design to society, and research takes place across
 three themed clusters:

        Art, Philosophy and Social Practice (APSP) - This cluster continues a critical engagement
        with art’s social and participatory impact and the legacy of ‘socially engaged practice’, a
        core area in the SoA since 1985, when it delivered one of the first undergraduate degree
        courses in Art and Social Practice in the UK.

        Digital Technology Theory and Practice (DTTP) - This cluster comprises animators,
        film/video-makers, and digital media artists and theorists. Its research roots extend back
        20 years, with renowned international film and video practitioners such as Sherwin and
        P.Harrison.

        Material and Theoretical Practice (MTP) - This cluster investigates how co-design and
        craft-making contribute to the building of sustainable, proactive communities across
        diverse sectors including amateur crafts, health advocates and professionals, and those
        involved in museums and heritage.

 The clusters are led by Professors and Readers who together with CADRE’s Director form a
 steering group to discuss, in liaison with the Head of School, matters such as research direction
 and strategy, interdisciplinarity, mentoring, research leave, research hours, REF progression, and
 the monitoring of equality and diversity within the centre. CADRE reports to the Faculty Research
 Committee (FRC), which oversees annual monitoring, ethics and doctoral training. The Faculty
 Post-Graduate Tutor manages student progression and annual monitoring, they also act as triage
 for applications, interviews and the organisation of supervisory teams. There is also a Faculty
 doctoral tutor available for pastoral care and both tutors report to the FRC, which in turn reports
 to the University Research Committee.


 b) Research Objectives Past and Future and Performance

 Previous to REF2014, research strategies were in place to encourage our studio practitioners to
 consider their practice as research and then to support their ongoing development. This led to the
 formation of a thriving and inclusive research culture, submitting an FTE of 25.70 (33 headcount)
 to REF2014. CADRE also nurtured staff in the School of Performing Arts with seven included in

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2014. This group has since grown significantly in strength and numbers and is submitting as
 an independent Unit to sub-panel D33 in REF2021 with 17 staff (16FTE). CADRE staffing was
 also affected by moves to other Universities and retirements.

 The smaller centre (20 staff, 12.5 FTE) required a new research strategy and a Five Year Plan for
 2015-2020 was formed. This plan focussed on developing collaborations firstly between cluster
 members, then between clusters, followed by building networks to enable collaborations external
 to CADRE within the University and beyond. A research assistant was appointed to work with the
 Professors and act as a broker between the art and design projects and the University Project
 Support Office. This plan successfully resulted in a number of large funded interdisciplinary
 projects with external partners and stakeholders. It also served as a means of mentoring ECRs
 and PGRs who were brought under the wing of the Professors within the projects.

 When designing the larger collaborative international projects, Professors took advantage of this
 expansion of shared interests within and across clusters, external to CADRE within the University,
 and beyond the UK. For example, Roberts included Kossoff in the Horizon 2020-funded
 Innovative Training Network the Future of European Independent Art Spaces in a Period of
 Socially Engaged Art (FEINART) as supervisor to post-graduate researchers (PGRs) using film in
 documentary research, and Hackney included Rogers as an artist with practice in social
 engagement in her AHRC funded Maker-Centric project working with small crafting communities.
 Hackney also included three of the lecturing staff from the SoA in her projects as a mentoring
 opportunity where they could actively learn research skills and methods and join CADRE as
 potential ECRs. This form of inclusivity ensured sustainability for the research area. Similarly, for
 the design-orientated Horizon 2020 funded MinD project, D.Harrison was included as an artist
 working with mixed-media installations. Out of the four prototypes emerging from MinD, three were
 graphic designed booklets and games, while one was a mixed-media system ‘Let’s Meet Up’
 directly based on her work. This inclusion ensured the project’s sustainability when D.Harrison
 was able to take-over following Niedderer’s move to another University (they now continue with
 their fruitful collaboration cross-University). MinD also included researchers from the Faculty of
 Health and Wellbeing, and the Faculty of Science and Engineering.

 Five Year Plan

 Following REF2014, CADRE reviewed activity and revised its approach in order to focus on areas
 of excellence, impact and interdisciplinarity. The aims of CADRE’s Five Year Plan can be
 summarised as:

       Sustaining and promoting excellent Art and Design research and innovation that is
        nationally valuable and an international point of reference;

       Developing research capacity and leadership by shifting from encouraging individually
        published outputs to initiating collaborative research projects with staff as PI/Co-I;

       Nurturing the next generation of researchers by maintaining a critical mass of research
        degree students, ensuring a vibrant subject research ecology and a multi-generational
        research environment (students, ECRs, mid-career, and senior researchers);

       Providing a flexible environment conducive to developing new lines of enquiry, recognising
        world-leading excellence and increasing collaborative/cross-disciplinary research;

       Impacting the cultural and creative economy in the nation and beyond, improving
        knowledge and understanding of the creative industries in the region, and developing the
        relationship between art and design research, and social, cultural and economic realms;

       Expanding impactful art and design knowledge exchange/technology transfer and
        consultancy to the public sphere and professional arena. All researchers now create an
        independent impact strategy appropriate to their particular form of research;

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Augmenting the quality of our research from REF2014, which had 43% 3*-4* outputs;

       Encouraging researchers to focus on the benefits and users of research and to maximise
        the reach, significance, and plans for impact of their research at the outset;

       Nurturing and expanding research capacity in our two newly developing areas of design
        for health and wellbeing and co-creation; and

       Expanding upon existing career progression strategies (aiming by the end of the five-year
        period to embed one new Professor, one new Research Fellow, one promotion to Reader,
        one promotion to Senior Research Fellow) with University support to re-evaluate art and
        design research within the School’s programme.

 The three CADRE clusters of researchers provided continuity from REF2014. Each cluster
 enables researchers to be part of an inclusive and thriving community of peers with similar
 disciplinary specialisms; works with other clusters through collaborative activities; creates forums
 for the exchange of ideas, collaboration, and mutual support; provides opportunities for
 professional growth and close mentoring for its ECRs; and serves as a space for postgraduate
 research students to develop a collective research identity and to develop professionally.

        APSP - This cluster continues a critical engagement with art’s social and participatory
        impact and the legacy of ‘socially engaged practice’, a key area of research since the
        appointment of Roberts in 2000 (now Professor of Art and Aesthetics) who leads this
        group. APSP provides a distinctive combination of art theoretical and philosophical work
        on a range of different forms of socially engaged practice and performance/dramaturgy, as
        per the example of the work of Chukhrov, a Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellow, Penzin’s work
        with the Russian collective ‘Chtot Delat’, and the appointment of Rogers as a social-art
        practitioner. Other members include practitioners using photography and film or drawing
        and painting to re-present past disused and derelict sites now devoid of human presence,
        for example the Wilson twin’s installations, Altintzoglou’s photographs, Read’s sketches,
        and Harris’ large-scale oil paintings. Researchers also work with the misrepresentation or
        underrepresentation of women in culture, for example Fenton’s work on witchcraft and
        healing, or Glaser’s reinstatement of Beatrice Warde as a seminal influence on typography.
        It also provides an expansive space for interdisciplinary practice future-proofed with a
        Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action Innovative Training Network (Horizon 2020) award of
        GBP2,854,886.57 in the area of art and social engagement to support a European-wide
        PhD training programme (2020-2024).

        DTTP - The cluster is led by Kossoff, Reader in Moving Image, with practice in
        experimental essayistic film-making concerning the spaces and places we live, and how
        the history of these spaces affect and move us in the present. DTTP comprises award-
        winning animator Moore who collaborates with scientists to visualise the invisible in
        understanding mind-states; film-maker Sherwin who works with the materiality of film and
        light; video-performance artists Kelland exploring masculinity through his silent clown-like
        persona, and P.Harrison (in partnership with Wood) whose spare, to-the-point works
        feature the actions of their own bodies when confronting solid everyday objects with
        hilarious slap-stick consequences; digital media artists D.Harrison working in mixed-reality
        and Doyle, virtual reality; and Stewart, an artist creating self-expressive objects in glass
        and 3D printing. Over the last decade, DTTP has developed its analogue and digital
        research base generating both theory and practice with an international academic and
        creative impact, most recently through Doyle’s connection with the EU-funded STARTS
        project Identifying Successful STARTS Methodologies (2019-2021) in collaboration with
        Ars Electronica, and the STARTS Prize.

        MTP - This cluster comprises studio practitioners in 2D and 3D design, fashion, textiles
        and crafts and has a rich heritage in glass making with emeritus Professor Keith

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Cummings, who continues to work with us on major events such as the International
        Festival of Glass (2019). MTP has built strong working relationships with cross-sectoral
        academic and external partners as evidenced in Niedderer’s design-led project MinD:
        Designing for people with Dementia using co-design methods for people with dementia
        and co-producing publications and prototypes. There has also been cross-unit working,
        with Aleksandra Galasinska (UoA 25) and Jennifer Lim (UoA 3) working as Fellows on the
        project. Hackney’s externally-funded collaborative projects with community groups have
        contributed to government reports (Fixing Fashion, as per the Impact Case Study) to
        enhance public understanding of the power of creative material practice to connect,
        engage and activate communities for productive change.

 Performance since REF2014

 REF2014 recognised Wolverhampton’s Art and Design research ‘environment’ as being 100% 2-
 3*. Achievements since then, and in accordance with our Five Year Plan for the smaller, cohered,
 centre, have been considerable and demonstrate a more fully developed and sustainable research
 environment within CADRE. The doubling of doctoral completions and substantial grant capture
 (section 4) are evidence of our having achieved greater sustainability. The scale and scope of
 outputs attest to the vibrancy of our research and included:

       Publications - 13 monographs, eight edited books, 34 chapters, 28 articles and over 30
        conference contributions.
       Exhibitions, Screenings and Performances - 53 group and 15 solo exhibitions, 32
        screenings/performances and 12 internet publications.
       Events at Tate Modern, Tate Britain, Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art
        Strasbourg, Contemporary Art Gallery Vancouver, National Centre for Contemporary Art
        Moscow, Brussels Centre for Fine Arts, and the Imagine Science film festival Abu Dhabi.
       Artefacts and Installations - 31 artefacts and designs, ten installations, and 20 bodies of
        work.

 Plans for the Future

 Post-REF2021, we will follow on from the Five Year Plan and build on our successes. CADRE will
 develop a new strategy (incorporating a refreshed version of the Five Year Plan) but with focus on
 supporting and mentoring design practitioners from the SoA towards developing a research profile.
 By expanding our staff with significant responsibility for research, we will be able to sustain and
 advance our interdisciplinary work particularly in our most recent area of design for health and
 wellbeing. Subsequently this will mean a larger submission for the next REF. The new strategy
 will continue to facilitate the development of our ongoing projects and the creation of new ones,
 support for ECRs, and the inclusion of doctoral students within project development and co-
 authoring opportunities.


 c) Impact from the research and the link to Impact Case Studies

 The goal of our impact strategy is to improve the situation of beneficiaries, as the examples below
 demonstrate. CADRE is therefore prioritising and encouraging developing projects which have
 reach and significance outside academia and of benefit to those in the public/social sphere. Our
 research is ideally suited to impact relating to co-production, the enhancement of cultural
 understanding, and the influencing and shaping of debate. Pathways such as performances,
 artefacts and exhibitions allow us to extend messages and invite diverse audiences to engage
 with them. Impact accruing from the activities of audiences then enables change. Measuring
 progress is a complex matter and artists use comment books and feedback on websites to gather
 information and this helps us to understand how impact develops.

 We have two Impact Case Studies, which illustrate the functioning of the strategy we have
 developed. These are: Technology and Collaboration in the Digital Age (Kossoff) and Art and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Design for Social Change: Agency, Engagement and Dramaturgy (Roberts). The first engenders
 impact through engaging with new audiences and influencing creative practice through an
 enhanced understanding of the interplay between technology and the Arts, for example in the
 rehabilitation of offenders. In the second Impact Case Study, the primary concern has been with
 issues pertaining to artist engagement and co-design practices for social change, for example the
 Designing a Sensibility for Sustainable Clothing (S4S) project, which provides effective popular
 tools and craft processes as the basis for contributing to policy change on sustainability and the
 fashion industry.


 d) Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 The Five Year Plan included the aim of increasing collaborative/interdisciplinary research, which
 we achieved through both our externally-facing projects and our internal initiatives.

 The MinD project (D.Harrison and Niedderer) brought together knowledge and expertise from
 different design fields, ICT, dementia care and social and behavioural psychology. Both Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie (Roberts) and S4S programmes (Hackney) were designed with and structured
 by interdisciplinary research teams and advisors, providing ECRs with a unique opportunity to
 work across disciplines, sectors, and with colleagues in external universities. Our ‘Wellmaking’
 work involved ECRs in collaborative work across the design and health sectors, and an AHRC-
 Catalyst funded event at the Wellcome Collection in London involved a cross-sector symposium
 and prototyping workshop. The Arts Council-funded Museum University Partnership Initiative
 (MUPI) offered ECRs and PGRs opportunities to engage in knowledge exchange with designers,
 academics and museum professionals in the Midlands (Herefordshire Museum Service, Black
 Country Living Museum, Herbert Gallery Coventry, Ironbridge George Trust).

 Internally, new ‘SmART’ (Science meets Art) sessions were run across the University initiated by
 CADRE to begin discussions and presentations on current projects with a view to synergy and
 collaborations. This continues through the University IRIS scheme, which supports Doyle in our
 connection with the EU funded ‘START’ project working with Ars Electronica in Austria. These
 partnerships are living and vital, allowing the quality of work to improve and greater impact to take
 hold.


 e) Progress towards an Open Research Environment

 CADRE has continued to comply with the University’s Open Access policy where deposit in our
 institutional repository has been mandatory since the open access policy was implemented in
 2010/11. A scholarly communications librarian and faculty liaison librarian met with our CADRE
 lead and Faculty Associate Dean of Research to discuss open scholarship, and where it would be
 possible to go above and beyond the minimum requirements with the right support. This also
 ensured that CADRE members were fully aware of the requirement to deposit within three months
 of acceptance.

 In developing an open research culture, we have gone beyond the scope of the minimum policy
 requirements for meeting the Open Access requirements by enabling open access for outputs
 other than journal articles. There are five book chapters available through the University WIRE
 repository in the Unit submission, all green Open Access. Our other output types are challenging
 to add to WIRE in that performances, artefacts and exhibitions are not easy to archive but we are
 working on ways of retaining them for access as electronic portfolios. The Unit’s commitment to
 Open Access goes beyond the material submitted in this REF period as we encourage staff to
 continue to deposit their books and chapters to WIRE, for example, Harrison, D. (2015) ‘Exploring
 the liminal between the virtual and the real’ In: Gianluca Mura (editor), Analyzing Art, Culture, and
 Design in the Digital Age, Chapter 5, pp51-62.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To promote open research, we encourage staff to make research processes and data openly
 available, and share research with a wide range of audiences. Further examples of our open
 research environment are our H2020 open data pilot regarding our Designing for Dementia
 website, blogs, other project websites, collaborations, and public engagement.


 f) Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity

 CADRE adheres to all University ethical processes and is represented on both the University and
 Faculty Ethics Committees. In this way, we support a culture of research integrity and ensure that
 research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks,
 obligations and standards, with adherence to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.

 We also make sure that there is a session on ethics within the Faculty Research Skills and
 Methods training programme for PGRs and ECRs, to inform our researchers working on art and
 design projects which involve public engagement or links with health and wellbeing.

 2. People


 a) Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Staffing strategy

 CADRE does not control the recruitment of staff in the Wolverhampton SoA but engages with
 relevant interested staff to help them become research active and pursue their research goals.
 These are generally practicing artists and designers on full-time contracts who naturally gravitate
 towards practice-led research.

 Through this process, and from successful funding applications, we have seen an increased
 number of early stage researchers, with six new staff submitting to REF2021, including two
 Research Fellows with one briefly promoted to Senior Research Fellow before moving on. In
 recognition of research activity, a new Chair in Fashion was awarded through the University
 Research Investment Fund (RIF). The staff concerned are: Simon Harris (PhD awarded 2016) one
 of our own PGRs who is now a lecturer at the SoA; Howard Read (PhD awarded 2020) senior
 Lecturer at the SoA; Gavin Rogers a strategically appointed lecturer in Social Art Engagement;
 Ketevan (Keti) Chukhrukidze, also Russified to Chukhrov, (Research Fellow 2017-19); Fiona
 Hackney became our first Professor in Fashion Theory (2015-2019); and Denise Doyle was
 promoted to a Readership in 2018. Jane Wilson was made an Honorary Professor on leaving the
 University and brought her video installation ‘Undead Sun’ to the Wolverhampton City Art Gallery
 for exhibition in 2019 while in this capacity.

 The only short-term contracts within our Category A staff are for those brought in to work on RCUK
 (UKRI)/EU-funded discrete projects, for example, Chukhrov as a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow.

 Staff development strategy

 Due to the nature of our subject area, we are open to those needing to work part-time in order to
 continue as professional artists/designers. That said, the majority of staff are in full-time
 employment, and only three part-time. We are also aware that a high proportion of staff are
 lecturers at the SoA and need flexible working hours for any research activity. To facilitate this, we
 run a sabbatical programme in liaison with the Head of School. Our staff can apply for a sabbatical
 to support a specific research activity for the duration of one semester, and applications need to
 follow CADRE’s sabbatical guidelines. This scheme usually supports four to six applications per
 year with eighteen sabbaticals awarded over this REF cycle. Staff sabbatical time can also be
 used to strengthen their research impact beyond academia by arranging activities at the periphery
 to an exhibition of their work using social media, organising Q&A sessions at a gallery, artist talks

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and public events. For example, Stewart required concentrated time to both create a new piece
 and to develop his liaison work with the International Festival of Glass 2019, and Fenton needed
 dedicated research time for curating her exhibition Poppets, Pins and Power: the Craft of Cursing
 at the Museum of Witchcraft and Magic, Cornwall, in 2017.

 We also support and enable staff to achieve impact by encouraging interdisciplinarity, through
 joining teams on collaborative projects which expand our capacity for impact (see Section 1b). For
 example, CADRE led a series of seminars with our colleagues from the Faculties of Science and
 Engineering and Health and Wellbeing. Our staff can apply for funding up to GBP1,200 to cover
 conference/event attendance on application. The same amount can be applied for to support
 specific project requirement such as materials or transport costs.

 For those with recent doctorates, the University runs an Early Career Award Scheme (ERAS),
 which annually awards ten grants of up to GBP5,000, alongside a tailored mentoring and action
 learning programme, to facilitate the research career development of ECRs. ERAS is open to both
 full- and part-time staff and application can be made to extend a scholarship over a two year period
 for part-time staff. Six CADRE staff were made ERAS fellows in this REF period, providing
 research time to enable them to complete a self-managed project, usually a body of work for
 exhibition. For example, Harris completed two paintings for exhibit and a book chapter, while
 Kelland was able to conclude his Falling Slowly video performance for dissemination and
 feedback. The ERAS fellows are mentored by a senior researcher from their respective CADRE
 cluster to help them scope and deliver their project on time.


 b) Research Students

 There have been fourteen PhD completions, doubling the seven for REF2014, with an increase in
 PGR numbers of 8% including four Faculty bursaries and two University RIF-funded studentships.
 Two of our cohort completed early at two years nine months both with a straight pass, and all our
 students have proceeded to appointments in the sector. For example, Harris is now a lecturer at
 the SoA submitting with this Unit and Birchall is a senior curator at TATE Liverpool.

 Evidence of studentships from major funding bodies

 From our externally-funded research projects, the new FEINART Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN
 grant supports eleven PGRs across the partner network, while the MinD project included four
 doctoral students - one each from Wolverhampton, Technische Universität Dresden, Université
 du Luxembourg, and Alexianer St Hedwig Hospital. These positions offer training through
 presentation sessions, targeted workshops for subject related knowledge transfer, running of
 focus groups and symposium organisation. MinD provided a rare opportunity for early-stage
 researchers in design to be part of an international large-scale design-led consortium. Two PGRs
 were brought in as Research Assistants on the AHRC-funded projects: Maker-Centric and
 Designing S4S Clothing.

 Engaging with these projects gave them the opportunities to:

       co-produce research and participate in workshops with community participants and third
        sector partners;

       help organise, engage in and present at symposia;

       work alongside researchers at partner universities and third sector organisations;

       co-author academic journal articles; and

       produce and disseminate printed materials, websites, blogs, artefacts, publications,
        exhibitions, and toolkits for impact and wider dissemination.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Student Support

 Our doctoral students are each housed within a CADRE cluster and are University Doctoral
 College (DC) members. The DC provides a comprehensive and holistic generic Postgraduate
 Researchers’ Development Programme, which is mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework (VRDF). CADRE complements this programme with a series of six sessions rolled out
 across the year focussed on skills and methods training for practice-led research, this is open to
 both PhD students and ECR staff. CADRE also offers students the opportunity of applying for
 funding up to GBP600 to support external research activity, such as visiting an archive or
 presenting at a conference, at any point in their study as agreed with their Supervisory team.

 Doctoral students are supervised by a team of researchers who demonstrate different supervisory
 expertise and sets of research skills in order to optimise support for the PGR. Mandatory training
 is required to act as a research supervisor, as is regular CPD via the DC’s Research Supervisors'
 Development Programme. With a view to post-doc employability, the supervisors support our
 PGRs with an interest in teaching by inviting them to lead on module seminars, or if they already
 have PG Certificates in Learning and Teaching (or similar), to contribute as a visiting lecturer. The
 SoA invites arts professionals to present to final year undergraduates and Masters students during
 Employability Week, which our Doctoral students are also encouraged to attend.

 The University holds an Annual Research Conference, the first day of which focuses on PGRs.
 Throughout, there are themed research support sessions and prizes are also awarded for best
 research posters in different categories. The prize for the best visually-designed poster has been
 awarded to a CADRE PGR student each year over this REF cycle, and CADRE has continued to
 be represented at the conference by both its early stage and more experienced researchers, either
 giving papers or chairing sessions.

 CADRE facilitates an annual student-led PhD research conference for doctoral presentations and
 a programme of research seminars where doctoral students are also expected to present. The
 centre runs a rolling programme of public lecture speakers invited by the research clusters twelve
 times per year, they are open to all staff, students and the public. These events are captured
 annually in the DC’s Research Almanac, distributed in hard and soft copy to all PGRs, PGR
 applicants and research staff across the University. In a typical year, the almanac features over
 250 events for doctoral students.


 c) Equality and Diversity

 The University, Faculty and Research Centre are fully committed to the advancement of equality
 and the elimination of unlawful and unfair discrimination. The Faculty Research Committee has
 formed a Gender Equality Action Plan sub-group (GEAP) to agree and monitor the action plans
 for any equality and diversity issues that might arise across the Units submitting to REF2021. This
 is complemented with an Athena SWAN Self-assessment Team to remedy any gender imbalance
 that might arise and to promote a more inclusive research environment. CADRE has
 representatives on Faculty and University equality and diversity panels, and ethics committees.
 The centre reviews its position with regard to equality and diversity when new staff/students join
 and keeps a GEAP plan, which is reported annually to the Faculty. CADRE selected its output
 submissions in accordance with the University Equality and Diversity Policy, and its REF2021
 Code of Practice.

 CADRE is submitting ten male researchers and four females, however CADRE is currently working
 with the SoA in mentoring a further group of five women who are now considering their practice
 as research. For PGRs, our current students comprise seven males and eighteen females, six of
 whom are international students. When reviewing the larger number of female students, both
 ‘health and well-being’, and ‘social art and curation’ as subject areas tend to be female-heavy so
 our numbers reflect the sector. The newly established FEINART project has recruited three PGRs,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two females and one male. CADRE is led by a female professor, who was also the Chair of the
 University’s Professoriate during the REF period.

 Arrangements for supporting flexible or remote working

 CADRE staff and students are mostly practice-led researchers with their own home-studios to
 complement the SoA’s workshops and resources. We are, therefore, well positioned where
 arrangements for supporting flexible and remote working are concerned, in that staff can work at
 home for concentrated research time as necessary and keep in contact with their cluster through
 e-mail. Meetings are kept to mutually-agreed times for when staff are on site. Supervisions with
 part-time students are arranged to fit in with their working and home-life patterns.

 Support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave or ill health

 PGRs meet with their Director of Studies more frequently on return and together agree an action
 plan to bring them back up-to-speed. This extra support facilitates re-engagement with their
 project, and the agreed action plan suggests how they can do this in a realistic way. The PGR
 tutor (pastoral care) is also at hand if needed, where students may require support. Staff on leave
 are supported through Keeping-in-Touch days, and workloads as adjusted as necessary on their
 return from leave.

 We actively work with the technicians and health and safety officers to support staff with protected
 characteristics, for example, where studio access and equipment might be required, but we have
 no research active staff, or students, in this category at present.

 We are vigilant in supporting the wellbeing of our staff and students who are made aware of the
 University Student Support and Wellbeing team who offer Mental Health and Wellbeing Advice for
 students, and of the Staff Wellbeing Hub for their own wellbeing and for that of those for whom
 they care.

 The CADRE team meets regularly for seminars and presentations to which our PGRs are invited,
 and through these activities we keep a sense of community and awareness of the wellbeing of
 individual members. For staff, the cluster leader/mentor is also at hand for support and guidance.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 a) Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income

 As can be seen in the Centre’s Five Year Plan post REF2014, research is focussed towards
 developing collaborative interdisciplinary projects and away from that of individual scholarship.
 This new strategy successfully generated a number of large-funded and highly competitive
 projects.

 Our practice-led researchers continue to apply for and achieve funding support for their smaller
 independent projects from a variety of agencies, for example: GBP30,000 commission for Wilson’s
 ‘Undead Sun’ at the Imperial War Museum (Film and Video Umbrella); and GBP2,000 for Roger’s
 contribution to the ‘Dreaming Tower Ballroom’ project (Bertz Associates).

 The Unit has a recurrent budget, the major element of which is derived directly from Quality-related
 Research (QR) Funding. The full value of research earnings is attributed to the faculties and
 schools of each individual researcher enabling travel, impact development, conference
 attendance, dedicated research time and the resourcing of high-level equipment essential to
 globally recognised work. CADRE researchers also have access to a fully-equipped art school
 with a wide array of excellent facilities, workshops and technical support. CADRE deploys the
 majority of the strategic support budget on a competitive peer-reviewed basis through annual


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research planning with proposals for sabbaticals, event attendance and project development being
 assessed in a fourfold way:

       Quality: to identify clearly research priorities; to foster the highest quality research; and to
        address them with regard to the scale and scope of each research project;

       Capacity and rigour: to develop skills and realise potential in relation to ECRs, established
        researchers, and cross-disciplinary researchers;

       Significance and reach: to secure effective expansiveness and status of art and design
        research, particularly with regard to impact outside the Academy and national/international
        accessibility; and

       Vitality and Sustainability: to maintain a lively and vibrant community on a realistic and
        ongoing basis.

 Our strategy to attract funding is a combination of top-down and bottom-up processes. In the latter,
 artists are highly proactive in seeking grants and have been successful in doing so. The top-down
 element of the process relates to larger calls, where a more centralised and co-ordinated effort is
 required. The combination of processes enables us to do two things: firstly to maintain our profile
 and reputation for excellence; and secondly to maintain ongoing contact, co-operation, and
 collaboration with our grass-roots user constituency.

 CADRE has received several funding awards, and the following represents the high calibre of the
 research of the members of it, as well as illustrating the efficacy of the aforementioned strategy:

       The H2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network four year project
        FEINART (GBP2,854,887) with eleven partners from nine countries (Iceland, Germany,
        Sweden, Holland, Italy, Greece, Romania, Poland and the UK);

       The H2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research Innovation and Staff Exchange grant ‘MinD
        – Designing for People with Dementia: Designing for mindful self-empowerment and social
        engagement’. The project ran from 2016 to 2020 with the value of GBP385,931. It
        facilitated the highest level research, as well as staff development for both experienced
        and early stage researchers with eighteen partners from seven countries (the UK,
        Germany, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Italy, Spain, and Australia);

       The Maker-Centric place-based, co-making communities award was AHRC-funded follow-
        on funding for Impact and Engagement. The award was for GBP98,986 and ran from
        February 2017 to March 2018 to develop co-produced toolkits with community groups to
        support them and others to self-organise, maximise their assets, resources, and ambitions
        through processes of creative making by combining knowledge about local place-based
        heritage with digital fabrication tools. The project utilised the concept of ‘living heritage’ and
        worked with minority groups, partners and stakeholders (Craftspace Birmingham, Creative
        Black Country West Midlands, Fab Lab West Bromwich, and Terra Vera Slovenia);

       S4S was an ARHC Research Grant funded project in collaboration with University of
        Exeter. It ran from November 2017 to June 2019, with GBP179,791 (of GBP450,000) going
        to CADRE. The project combined social science and arts methodologies to explore how
        working creatively in community groups to repair, repurpose, up-cycle, and adapt clothing
        might change attitudes, building a community of ‘sustainable clothing citizens’. Evidence
        of the impact of the work of the project can be seen at 4b), deriving also from 3b) below.
        Partners included: Fashion Revolution, Hive Shrewsbury, and the Black Country Living
        Museum;




                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       HMP Grendon/Ikon Gallery Artist Residency 2019-2022, GBP114,000. Kelland is Ikon’s
        artist in residence at HMP Grendon, Buckinghamshire. Funded by the Marie-Louise von
        Motesiczky Charitable Trust, the focus of the residency is the development of artistic
        practice at HMP Grendon – that of Kelland and of the prison’s communities. For Kelland,
        the relationship between artist and prison is an exchange of ideas and practices, an
        ongoing dialogue that informs all aspects of the residency;

       Marc Fassiaty Foundation awarded P.Harrison with a production commission of
        GBP18,000 in 2018. He was also awarded a commission of GBP12,000 in 2015 from
        Bristol Museum and Art Gallery/New Expressions;

       Kossoff was awarded GBP25,000 by Arts Council England for his film ‘Animal
        Architecture’, 2015;

       Altintzoglou was given gallery support of some GBP8,200 (EUR10,000) for his ‘Grand
        Detour’ exhibition at Beton7 Arts, Athens, in 2016. He was also awarded with GBP5,000
        from Arts Council England for ‘Sunbeam’ shown in the ‘Making of Mordor’ exhibition at
        Wolverhampton Art Gallery in Autumn 2014;

       Glaser received GBP250 from the Bibliographic Society to speak at a conference on ‘Prints
        Progress in the 20th Century’. She was also awarded with GBP500 from the Printing
        Historical Society for a research trip to Cambridge University Library;

       Moore collaborated with scientists on a project funded by the Wellcome Trust Large Arts
        Award with Garfield Weston, GBP150,000 2015-2016. For her ‘Bloomers’ film 2019 she
        was supported with GBP47,000 from Klangforum, Arts Council England and Animate
        Projects; and

       Sherwin was awarded GBP6,000 from Arts Council England and the Sasakawa foundation
        for his 2016 work ‘Paper Shadows’.

 It will be noted that there are fewer opportunities for Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) than
 in REF2014. We have, in consequence, sought out other avenues, re-focusing our gaze towards
 European funding and partnerships to extend our international reach. As will be seen in the next
 section, this has necessitated central University support arrangements.


 b) Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 University Research Support services are divided between three departments: Project Support
 Office (PSO) which focuses on pre- and post-award project support and management, the
 Research Policy Unit (RPU) – for university-wide research policies and support and the DC – for
 PGR students. All are based in a central Research Hub, which coordinates research support
 across the University. The central Finance Department provides financial function across all
 Faculties and departments as relevant. We have also benefitted from a Research Assistant to
 work with our Professors, and a dedicated Impact Officer based in RPU.

 CADRE staff and doctoral students are able to utilise the art school’s studios, materials and
 technicians. Staff and doctoral students can also seek support for research-specific equipment
 and specialist technical support in addition to that available centrally within SoA and the wider
 University such as an advanced laser cutter, motion capture technology or 3D printer training. For
 example, it was of critical importance that our S4S project could acquire the physical studio space
 to repair, repurpose, up-cycle, and adapt clothing for us to be able to deliver the project. This, in
 turn, enabled us to be able to fulfil the impacts of co-creating new forms of artistic expression and
 of having a beneficial effect of the environment. For a full explanation of the impact created, see
 4b), below.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 c) Research Infrastructure: The nature, quality, provision and operation of specialist research
 infrastructure and facilities

 CADRE staff and students benefit from the University library, which subscribes to a broad range
 of journals, networked electronic resources and full-text databases including those specific to art
 and design. For our students, we have improved their facilities when the CADRE PhD study room
 in the art school building was no longer adequate for our growing cohort. We therefore expanded
 our PGR facilities from a dedicated room with six hot-desks and lockers, and now offer an
 additional large ‘Postgraduate Studies’ room shared with the school’s Master’s students, offering
 twelve more hot-desks, a kitchen, social space and presentation audio-visual equipment. This has
 the added value of enabling our MA students to see doctoral work in progress and encouraging
 them to think about their own potential research future.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 a) Arrangements and Support for, and Effectiveness of, Research Collaborations, Networks and
 Partnerships

 The Unit has been successful due to its collaborations and every member has an extensive
 network of research collaborations and research partnerships. A good example of this is the work
 of D.Harrison in the international MinD project. Given the health dimensions of the project, we also
 worked with professional health partners (the Nottinghamshire Healthcare Trust, Intras (Spain),
 Zorggroep Sint Maarten (Netherlands), Alzheimer Europe, and the Alexianer Klinikum Berlin).
 These research collaborations underpin the success of the project and show how effective these
 relationships can be.


 b) Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences

 The staff in CADRE have engaged with and developed a relationship with key research users,
 such as the AHRC-funded S4S project. The project combined social science and arts
 methodologies to explore how working creatively in community groups to repair, repurpose, up-
 cycle, and adapt clothing might change attitudes, building a community of ‘sustainable clothing
 citizens’. The research resulted in policy recommendations. The project worked with charities,
 community organisations, sole traders, and micro businesses in the Midlands (including
 collaboration with the EU-funded EnTRESS project at the University of Wolverhampton), and in
 Cornwall to explore how sustainable clothing thinking, behaviour and practices might be
 embedded in their organisations.

 The research resulted in a Select Committee policy recommendation that repair and reuse would:
 ‘improve a business’s environmental and social impact but also offer market advantage as they
 respond to the growing consumer demand for responsible, sustainable clothing.’ The full impact
 became apparent when this recommendation was accepted by the Government in June 2019.
 This is very strong evidence of impact at the heart of Government sustainability policy on the
 environment.


 c) Wider Contributions to Economy and Society

 We are continuing to have a significant impact contribution to economy and society, beyond our
 impact case studies. A good example of this is Rogers’ 2018 Stork – The Welcome Migrant, a
 social participatory project involving Polish and British citizens in Wolverhampton, based on the
 migration patterns of the stork in Poland. Rogers installed twenty sculptures across the West
 Midlands and the project was successful in shaping and informing debate on the definitions of


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘home’, ‘strangers’, and ‘welcoming outsiders’. In the context of the ‘hostile environment’ approach
 to immigration, this impact provided a welcome degree of conviviality to the debate.

 With a view to building upon our achievements so far, discussed in the previous section, we note
 that the House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee is revisiting its inquiry entitled Fixing
 Fashion: Clothing, Consumption and Sustainability. Although the deliberations of the Committee,
 and associated reporting, are due to take place beyond the census dates of the current REF, we
 are nevertheless keen to be involved and do all we can to continue to be an essential element in
 the public debate and, thereby, shape and inform opinion, practice, and policy.


 d) Engaging with Diverse Communities and Publics

 The Unit engages with diverse communities and publics through its research. This ranges from
 addresses, such as D.Harrison’s keynote address to the ‘Black Arts Movement 21st celebration’
 conference in 2016 held at the University of Wolverhampton, to Kossoff’s 2016 film ‘How They
 Hate Us…’, released in Ramallah, Palestine. The Black Arts Movement is an important part of
 our vision. It has a strong connection with the practice-led approach to research and is firmly
 connected with inclusion and place, which are part of the University’s Vision 2030.


 e) Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Both Maker-Centric and S4S are designed with and structured by interdisciplinary research teams
 and advisors, providing researchers with a unique opportunity to work across disciplines, sectors,
 and with colleagues in external universities. The Wellmaking project involves early-stage
 researchers in collaborative work across the design and health sectors, with a cross-sector
 symposium and an AHRC-Catalyst funded workshop at the Wellcome Collection in London in
 2017.

 In 2019, an Arts Council/Engage-funded Museum University Partnership Initiative (MUPI) offered
 ECRs and PGRs opportunities to engage in knowledge exchange with designers, academics and
 museum professionals in the Midlands. Participating museums were the Herefordshire Museum
 Service, Black Country Living Museum, Herbert Gallery Coventry, and the Ironbridge George
 Trust. These museums and partnerships contribute to sustainability by increasing the grass roots
 coverage available to the Unit and integrating new approaches over time. With greater
 collaboration, the longevity of our work is guaranteed.


 f) Indicators of Wider Influence

 The Unit has had a number of indicators of wider influence and contributions to and recognition
 by the research base. Select exemplars include the following:

 Journal editorship

 Our most prominent editorships are that D.Harrison is a current member of the editorial board and
 reviewer for the International Journal of Art, Culture and Design Technologies (IJACDT) and that
 Doyle is the Editor of the Journal of Virtual Creativity, and the International Journal of Performance
 Arts and Digital Media, and has peer reviewed for the Journals of: Metaverse Creativity;
 Philosophy Transactions of the Royal Society; Leonardo; and Craft Research. Roberts is a
 member of the advisory board for the following journals: Philosophy of Photography (from 2009);
 Art and the Public Sphere (from 2009); Third Text (from 2007 to 2016); Historical Materialism (from
 1998); as well as the prestigious Zeitschrift für Kunstgeschichte (from 2018).

 Participation on grants committees


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 D.Harrison sits on the Scientific Committee of the World Multidisciplinary Art Sciences
 Symposium, is an evaluator for the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada
 and previously within this REF census has been an AHRC peer reviewer for Panel B Visual Arts.

 Fellowships

 CADRE’s two-year Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship funded through Horizon2020 in
 the APSP cluster accommodated Dr Keti Chukhrov’s project concerning Epistemological Gaps in
 Cultural Theories of the Soviet East and the Democratic West in the 1960’s and 1970’s. Rogers
 is a Fellow of the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement, Bristol, and Penzin is an
 Associated Research Fellow at the Institute of Philosophy, Moscow.

 Prizes

 Our film-makers and animators regularly receive prizes for their work, most notably Moore’s
 animated film ‘Loop’ won the prize for Visual Science at the Image Science Festival in Abu Dhabi
 2017, and second place in the Professional Documentary under ten minutes category at the Raw
 Science Film Festival where it received a special mention. The film also won Best Animated
 Documentary prize at the Factual Animation Film Fuss 2016. Her film ‘Bloomers’ has been
 nominated for Best Short Film at the British Animation Awards 2020 (BAAS). Bloomers also won
 Best British Film at the London International Animation Festival 2019 and Best Documentary at
 ReAnima International Animated Film Festival 2019.

 Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees

 Although some staff members have left, they were assiduous in their academic responsibilities
 while in the Unit. Hackney, D.Harrison, and Niedderer have all been AHRC Peer Review College
 Members over this REF period, and Hackney and D.Harrison are AHRC Panel Reviewers and
 Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts. Hackney is a Design History Society member and officer of
 the EU Design Days. Moore is on the Wellcome Trust Arts Selection Committee.

 Invited keynotes, lectures and/or performances, or conference chair roles

 D.Harrison was an invited panel speaker for the CAA conference in Los Angeles 2018; and theme
 leader with five panels of five speakers each for the EVA/Politics of the Machine conference in
 Copenhagen 2018. She was also the Invited speaker at ‘Consciousness Reframed 16’, at
 Shanghai University in 2016. D.Harrison also presented as Visiting Arts Professor on an invited
 lecture tour to the Universities of Changsha, Hunan; Hunan University of Science and Technology,
 Xiangtan; Jilin College of Arts, Changchun; Northeast Normal University, Changchun; Tsinghua
 University, Beijing over the course of winter 2016.

 A similar high standard of excellent international engagement has been shared by other members
 of the Unit. Roberts was the invited speaker at Brussels Centre for Fine Arts and has given keynote
 addresses at the symposium at Hebbel am Ufer Theatre, Berlin; and the Russian Formalism Group
 workshop, at the University of Westminster. Closer to home, Penzin delivered keynote talks at the
 symposium “A Bright Night: Technologies of Affect” at Serpentine Gallery; Tate Liverpool 14
 October 2016 and at the Ruskin SoA, at the University of Oxford.

 Refereeing academic publications or research proposals

 In terms of publications, CADRE members peer review for 17 journals including Roberts for
 Comparative Literature and Culture; Doyle for Leonardo, and Niedderer is the founding editor and
 a reviewer for the Journal of Craft Research. Altintzoglou was the founder and editor for the PGR
 online journal Desearch (2014-17). Staff review for seven publishers including D.Harrison for
 Bloomsbury, Penzin for V-A-C Foundations, and Hackney for Oxford University Press. Its
 members sit on the Editorial teams reviewing for 14 Journals including Penzin for the Institute of
 Radical Imagination, Moscow Art Magazine, and Niedderer for Journal of Visual Art Practice.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Niedderer also reviewed proposals for the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF), while
 Fenton reviews grant applications to the Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowship scheme, and Moore
 reviews applications to the Wellcome Trust.




                                                                                      Page 15
