Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 08 Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 The School of Chemistry contributes to the University of Southampton (UoS) mission to “Change
 the World for the Better” (REF5a§1.2) through excellence in chemical research, education and
 enterprise activities. Notable achievements since REF2014 that advance this mission are:

    •   Continued development of a diverse, international researcher community (53% of our
        Teaching & Research and Research-only staff are international), including: the
        recruitment of 7 new permanent staff; confirmation of 3 research fellows and transfer of 1
        technical staff to permanent academic roles; 6 associate professor and 10 full
        professorial promotions and the graduation of 272 PhD students (33% female) (see §2).
    •   Embedding of a collegial and inclusive culture in the development of the School,
        underpinned by the values articulated in our Chemistry Code of Conduct (§2) and as
        indicated by the award of an Athena SWAN Silver award in 2015, renewed in 2018.
    •   Strong growth in research income, with a 32% increase in mean annual research income
        over the period (£7.9 M/yr c.f £6.0M/yr in REF2014), supporting the delivery of a diverse
        research portfolio (§3.2).
    •   The publication of influential work with a global reach, including 1403 ISI papers, 25
        patents granted; 60 patents filed. International collaboration has increased steadily over
        the period with 52% papers involving international collaborators in 2019.
    •   Establishment of Chemical Engineering (§1.2) as a strategic University priority that will sit
        within the School of Chemistry, supported by a capital investment of £5.5M.

    •   A major (>£16M, 2016-20) refurbishment of the original Chemistry building (§3).
 As one of 5 Schools in the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences (FEPS), Chemistry is
 led by Head of School, Reid (to 8/2020), with Deputy Heads of School, Linclau (Research and
 Enterprise) and Hector (Education), and Director of Infrastructure R Brown. Together with the
 School Finance Officer, Executive Officer, HR and H&S Advisers, they form the School
 Operational Board. The new Director of Chemical Engineering (Zhang) joined the School
 Operational Board in early 2019. The Heads of Research Groups (§1.2) form the Research &
 Enterprise Committee chaired by the DHoS-R&E, reporting to the School Board.
 We are deeply committed to the values of EDI, reflecting our belief in the importance of ensuring
 an inclusive culture that welcomes and values equality and diversity for the continued success of
 the School and the well-being of all of our community. The School Operational Board, like the
 other committees, ensures EDI in all business and decision-making.

 1.2 Research strategy
 The School’s ambition is for sustained internationally-leading research across the breadth of
 chemistry defined by our research groups and is built on:




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Recruitment and development of diverse staff and students, fully supported in their
        research activities and wellbeing;
    •   Establishment and maintenance of state-of-the-art facilities with sustainable research
        income;
    •   To deliver a stimulating and supportive environment promoting intellectual development
        and timely world-class innovation, capitalising on cross- and inter-disciplinary synergies
        across the School, Faculty and more widely.
 Our five Research Groups in Electrochemistry (EC); Magnetic Resonance (MR);
 Computational Systems Chemistry (CSC); Chemical Biology, Diagnostics and Therapeutics
 (CBDT) and Characterisation and Analytics (C&A) reflect our strengths in these areas,
 particularly in the context of emerging societal challenges and government initiatives, and
 recognise the critical role of advanced analytical methods in C&A for delivering our research
 mission. The continuation of these groups was reaffirmed through an internal strategic review in
 2017/18, which also created two new research groups: Functional Inorganic, Materials and
 Supramolecular Chemistry (FIMS) and Organic Chemistry: Synthesis, Catalysis and Flow
 (OC). This revised structure represents a refocusing of our previous REF2014 structure, with an
 increased focus on innovative chemistry to create a more sustainable and healthier world.




                             Figure 1. Overview of Research Groups.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff are affiliated with primary groups, and some with multiple groups reflecting strong cross-
 disciplinary research in Chemistry (Figure 1). Additionally, our Education Group in Chemistry
 provides cross-cutting support to our academic staff, through translating innovative educational
 approaches across the School, supporting the preparation of UGs for chemical research and
 developing outreach to inspire the next generation.
 Chemistry’s strategy has been backed by significant support from the University through new
 staff appointments and cash contributions to support large and strategic equipment bids (§2 and
 §3). Our new Category A staff have been recruited to align with our strategy, to strengthen and
 complement our research and to bring new research opportunities and synergies.
 The expansion of Chemistry to include research and education in Chemical Engineering (CE)
 was identified as a strategic priority, taking advantage of the new Faculty structure that
 encompasses Chemistry and Engineering, building on the strengths in both Schools and the
 range of existing collaborations (§1.3). Significant investment has been committed to afford
 dedicated CE facilities (§3), with PGT and UG programmes launched in 2020 and 2021,
 respectively. We have appointed the first two specialist CE staff, providing educational
 contributions in CE, but research contributions more widely across the School’s research
 spectrum. Their focus in sustainable, low energy CE aligns with both key societal challenges and
 the UN Sustainable Development Goals, bringing research in continuous flow chemical
 processing, porous inorganic solids, heterogeneous catalysis and battery technologies,
 complementing existing strengths in Chemistry. A detailed Business Case for both the capital
 investment and further staff appointments over the next 5 years has been approved by the
 University Executive Board.

 1.2.1 Research Groups
 Electrochemistry (EC) (Head of Research Group (HoRG)=Bartlett) has a focus in Energy
 Conversion & Storage, where the section brings distinctive, internationally-leading expertise in
 the application of synchrotron methods to in operando studies of fuel cell catalysts (Russell with
 Johnson-Matthey and Diamond Light Source (DLS)). In this period, the group has made major
 contributions to the development of high throughput methodologies for materials discovery
 (Hayden with Ilika, Electronics and Computer Science (ECS) and the Zepler Institute (ZI) at
 UoS), particularly for proton exchange membrane fuel cells, solid-state Li-ion batteries and
 functional ceramics for energy harvesting. A major theme on energy storage and battery
 development (Hector, Garcia-Araez, Hayden, Skylaris), receives funding through the Faraday
 Institution (REF5a§2.5), in addition to industrial and InnovateUK projects and Garcia-Araez’s
 EPSRC Early Career Fellowship. The deposition of functional nanostructures, one of our
 priorities in REF2014, has been advanced significantly through two EPSRC Programme Grants
 (§3, Bartlett, Hector, Reid, with ECS and Physics), which is complemented by the
 electrodeposition of bulk thermoelectric materials for energy harvesting (Nandhakumar).
 Distinctive interdisciplinary work in sonoelectrochemistry, (Birkin, with Engineering) has led to
 innovations in cavitation detection, surface cleaning and studies of bubble dynamics. Denuault’s
 work focuses on theory and application of microelectrodes, scanning electrochemical microscopy
 and nanostructured microelectrodes for electroanalytical applications. Collaboration with the
 National Oceanography Centre (NOCS) in Southampton focusses on determination of dissolved
 oxygen and other analytes in sea water. Bartlett also works with the Optoelectronics Research
 Centre (ORC), Dstl and Southampton General Hospital on biodetection and waveguide Raman-
 based diagnostics.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Magnetic Resonance (MR) (HoRG=Utz) employs quantum theory, numerical simulations and
 MR experiments to design and apply new techniques to problems ranging from physical science
 to medicine. Distinctive and unique strengths are the integration of high-resolution NMR
 spectroscopy with microfluidic lab-on-a-chip devices (Utz), the use of advanced MR methods to
 study endofullerenes (Levitt, Carravetta, Pileio), the exploitation of long-lived nuclear spin
 states - a phenomenon first discovered in the Levitt group - to develop new magnetic resonance
 imaging (MRI) methods, NMR of superconductors and biomolecular structure determination by
 NMR (Carravetta). In line with our objectives from REF2014 to build upon the world-leading
 work of Levitt, the appointment of ECR Pileio brings expertise in theoretical spin dynamics and
 NMR methodology. EPSRC Early Career Fellow (Meier) was appointed in this REF period,
 developing ‘bullet dynamic nuclear polarisation’ for the generation and utilisation of
 hyperpolarization in NMR and MRI, before moving to a permanent position at Karlsruhe Institute
 of Technology. Work in MR enjoys strong links with OC (synthesis: L Brown, R Brown,
 Whitby), CSC (simulations: Kuprov), FIMS and EC (inorganic materials: Hector and
 heterogeneous catalysis: Raja), as well as Biology, Medicine, Physics and Engineering across
 UoS.
 Chemical Biology, Diagnostics and Therapeutics (CBDT) (HoRG=Roach) delivers
 internationally-leading work in chemical biology and at the life science interface, collaborating
 closely with clinicians in Medicine. Tavassoli’s design and development of protein-protein
 interaction inhibitors has led to extensive collaborations with industry, revealing important
 insights into several proteins in cancer biology, and leading to significant CRUK funding (£1M).
 Early career academic staff appointed in 2016 (Baud, Thompson) focus on synthetic probes for
 cancer targets and protein-protein interactions. Mechanistic enzymology and crystallography
 using the DLS and ESRF synchrotrons (Roach) feature strongly, particularly radical SAM
 enzymes and novel antibacterial targets. In diagnostics, the group has strengths in novel in vitro
 and in vivo molecular imaging techniques, DNA bionanotechnology and nano-sensors for
 medical diagnostics (Roach, Stulz, with Engineering), an area further strengthened by Mahajan,
 who is coupling advanced optical imaging with Raman spectroscopy. CBDT is also active in the
 emerging field of synthetic biology, with Tavassoli’s bacterial high-throughput screening
 platform being exploited through spin-out Curve Therapeutics (est. 2019), developing novel
 inhibitors of therapeutic targets previously regarded as ‘undruggable’. Roach, Lee and
 Tavassoli target different aspects of antibacterial development, often with industrial engagement
 (e.g. Dstl, Merck). Projects with structural aspects benefit from significant crossover with CSC
 (Essex, Khalid).
 Functional Inorganic, Materials and Supramolecular Chemistry (FIMS) (HoRG=Bradshaw)
 was established as a focus for research across molecular inorganic, supramolecular, materials
 and structural chemistry. A key aspect of the FIMS strategy has been to deepen its partnership
 with DLS to allow the School to leverage the national synchrotron facilities. Hence, P Wells was
 appointed jointly with DLS and has established a leading position in the application of
 synchrotron techniques, coupled with spectroscopic methods, for in operando catalytic studies,
 collaborating closely with industry and the Catalysis Hub (Harwell). A developing theme is in new
 inorganic late-stage 18F radiolabelling strategies for medical imaging (PET) (Reid with GE
 Healthcare). The appointment of Goldup, together with the work of Bradshaw and Raja, has
 broadened and deepened efforts in supramolecular chemistry, bridging the development of
 organic, metal-organic and inorganic framework materials and their composites in separation,



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sensing, and multifunctional catalysis. Hyett is developing porous hybrid solids, and CVD of thin
 film visible light photocatalysts.
 The group’s objective to be an internationally-leading centre for research in solid state materials
 and in the rapidly developing fields of nanomaterials and new materials chemistry, has
 stimulated strong links to both Electronics and Physics, benefiting from Southampton’s nationally
 leading nanofabrication and clean-room facilities. Raja (with Sazio, ZI) is integrating photonic
 fibres with inorganic catalysts for CO2 photo-conversion, and Reid leads research on
 electrodeposition and CVD of non- and few-layer transition metal dichalcogenides for next
 generation devices with ECS and Deregallera Ltd.
 Organic Chemistry: Synthesis, Catalysis and Flow (OC) (HoRG=Harrowven) consolidates
 specialisms including: target synthesis, synthetic photo- and electrochemistry; endofullerene,
 organofluorine, carbohydrate and flow chemistry; reactor and experiment design and
 organocatalysis. The development of new continuous flow methodologies and reactors for the
 sustainable synthesis of fine chemicals, agrochemicals and pharmaceuticals by electro-, photo-
 and thermal chemistry (R Brown, Harrowven, Whitby) is aligned to key themes of the EPSRC
 Dial-a-Molecule Grand Challenge network (lead=Whitby) which brings together a large body of
 industrial and academic collaborators. Linclau heads the IBCatalyst-UK research consortium
 investigating the enzymatic glycosylation of modified carbohydrates to generate biologically
 relevant glycans. Rios adds expertise in organocatalysis focussed on the enantioselective
 synthesis of complex scaffolds, and extends to multi-hybrid green catalysis in collaboration with
 Raja (FIMS).
 The OC group collaborate widely on interdisciplinary projects at various TRL levels, e.g. on
 orphan nuclear receptors (Whitby); engineers on power transmission (R. Brown); eTextiles
 (Harrowven); MR on imaging (Whitby, L Brown, Bloodworth); reactor designers (R Brown);
 materials chemists (Harrowven) and astrophysicists (Whitby).
 Computational Systems Chemistry (CSC) (HoRG=Frey) is broadly based, with research
 covering multiple length-scales and time-scales, unified by the common theme of exploring
 interacting systems, where larger scale behaviour arises from a series of complex interactions of
 individual smaller components. Particular strengths, incorporating multi-scale approaches, are in
 modelling biologically relevant systems (Essex, Khalid, Skylaris) at increasing levels of
 organisation, from nucleic acids and proteins, to membranes and the whole cell and in predictive
 modelling of materials (Skylaris, Day), from nanoparticles for catalysis to the ab initio prediction
 of functional crystalline materials. Kuprov develops theoretical methods for modelling spin
 dynamics.
 As proposed in REF2014, the group has moved in the direction of ‘big data’ and data-driven
 modelling, hosting the EPSRC Physical Sciences Data-science Service (PSDS) (Frey, Coles,
 with C&A) and the EPSRC AI Network+ (Frey) (§4). CSC collaborates widely with all research
 groups Chemistry, the wider University (e.g. Khalid with the National Biofilms Innovation Centre
 and Network for Anti-Microbial Resistance and Infection Prevention) and externally, providing
 the computational expertise that informs other research projects. The group collaborates
 extensively with industry through consultancy, funded PGRs and RAs.
 Characterisation and Analytics (C&A) (HoRG=Langley) focuses on the development and use
 of advanced analytical methods, leading to significant industrial and UKRI-funded activity. C&A
 combines expertise in modern analytical instrumentation, the EPSRC UK National
 Crystallography Service (NCS, Coles), thin film and powder diffraction, including pair distribution

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 function analysis of amorphous materials (Light), state-of-the-art mass spectrometry (Langley,
 Herniman) and solution NMR spectroscopy (N Wells). Specific interests include the application
 of hyphenated approaches, GC-MS, UHPLC-MS, UHPSFC-MS and GCxGC-HRMS, to analyse
 small molecules: pharma and agro chemicals (with Environmental and Life Sciences);
 petrochemicals (with Engineering, Innospec, BP); lipids, oligonucleotides and polymers (AZ,
 Huntsman) and fundamental MS/MS fragmentation processes (AZ, Syngenta). Coles’ group
 specialises in charge density distributions, structure-property relationships (with Day) and crystal
 growth. Distinctive structural science projects in macromolecular crystallography (with Biological
 Sciences), X-ray laser spectroscopy and imaging (with ORC) and CT Imaging (with Engineering)
 are complemented by well-funded research in informatics and AI, with Frey. Specialist projects
 include, biological screening and target discovery (Baud), 19F logP measurements (Linclau),
 and characterisation and binding of novel catenanes and rotaxanes (Goldup).

 1.2.2 Strategic priorities for the next REF period
 Building on existing and emerging strengths, synergistic expertise between Research Groups,
 and maximising interdisciplinary opportunities, our strategic priorities include:
 1) In the area of molecular and materials discovery and applications, particularly aligning with
 our priority of creating a more sustainable world:
    •   Establishing an interdisciplinary Centre of Excellence in Continuous Digital Chemical
        Engineering Science (CDCES), bringing together science and engineering expertise from
        across the University, with industrial partners, for the discovery and production of new
        compounds and materials using smart, sustainable processes and methods
        (FIMS/OC/CSC/CE).
    •   Exploiting expertise in molecular, supramolecular and materials chemistry with a
        sharpened focus on sustainable chemistry (porous materials, energy harvesting, flow
        catalysis, photocatalysis) and medical diagnostics (FIMS/CSC/CE).
    •   Building upon our excellence across fundamental and applied electrochemistry for
        energy storage and batteries, fuel cells, energy harvesting and chemical sensing
        (EC/FIMS/CSC/CE).
    •   Developing Artificial Intelligence and machine learning, applied to drug development,
        synthesis planning, modelling methods and materials discovery
        (CSC/CBDT/OC/FIMS/CE).
 2) On the interface with biological and medicinal science, creating a healthier world:
    •   Applying chemical understanding to biological systems: understanding protein ligand
        interactions for enzymes and other drug targets; developing cyclic peptide clinical
        candidates with trials underway against several cancer targets (CBDT/CSC).
    •   Strengthening ties with medicine through target synthesis and an understanding of
        molecular interactions; working with engineers to solve topical problems through
        molecular synthesis and/or degradation under stress (OC/CSC).
 3) In advancing methods for characterisation, which underpin the other priority areas:
    •   Driving innovations in combined diffraction and simulation methods for structure analysis
        of crystalline and amorphous materials, including hybrid catalytic materials and crystal
        sponges (C&A/CSC/FIMS).


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Exploiting recent breakthroughs in NMR studies on living tissue slices; development of
        new hyperpolarisation strategies (MR/CBDT).
    •   Establishing a regional Centre of Excellence for multi-inlet 2D GC-MS to advance the
        research of UK synthetic and catalysis chemistry communities working with volatile
        compounds, environmental scientists detecting low level and air-borne pollutants, and
        engineers researching the evolution of small organic gases and low-level contaminants
        (C&A).

    •   Establishing a new facility using a unique combination of correlative SEM, confocal
        RAMAN and windowless EDX imaging for in situ studies of battery electrodes and
        structures (EC).

 1.3 Interdisciplinarity
 UoS has a strong culture of multi- and interdisciplinary research and encouraging collaboration
 including strategic allocation of PGR and research funding to interdisciplinary projects.
 Interdisciplinarity is a strength in the School, and staff collaborate and influence across
 disciplines to address major societal challenges, e.g. through our strategies for Chemical
 Engineering and the Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS), a UoS priority integrating bio- and life-
 sciences, bringing together expertise across science, medicine and engineering. Chemistry
 engages with most cross-faculty University Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Institutes and
 University Strategic Research Groups (REF5a§2.6) and co-leads (Whitby) CDCES (§1.2.2), one
 of 4 newly established (2020) Faculty-based Centres of Excellence, with strong alignment to our
 Chemical Engineering, flow processing and AI priorities. In his leadership role as Associate VP,
 Attard oversees interdisciplinary research across UoS
 Within Chemistry, interdisciplinary research is supported by fostering our staff’s ambitions to
 allow them to be successful and removing barriers to collaboration within UoS and more widely.
 Interdisciplinary success is valued, celebrated and recognised in our promotion process (e.g.
 Mahajan, Minns, Tavassoli). Examples of interdisciplinary work in Southampton
 (Chemistry/Physics/Electronics/ORC; Chemistry/Medicine/Biology) are illustrated in the
 Research Sections above. Further examples include: significant multidisciplinary activity in AI,
 with Computer Science and Mathematics (e.g. Frey and Whitby’s Dial-a-Molecule and AI3SD
 networks), and through Day’s ERC Synergy grant with Liverpool (materials discovery) and
 Rostock (robotics); Mahajan’s Transformative Healthcare Programme Grant with the ORC,
 Medicine at UoS and Edinburgh; Bradshaw and Langley’s work with NOCS on porous hybrid
 solids for bioremediation of nuclear waste from legacy sites and dissolved organic matter
 composition, respectively; Utz with Medicine on microfluidic NMR metabolomics of cancer cell
 lines.
 Chemistry is very strongly engaged with the IfLS (Deputy Director: Mahajan). Nineteen
 Chemistry staff representing all seven research groups are members of the IfLS and are strongly
 engaged with medicine, bioengineering and biological sciences. Two themes of the University’s
 Life Sciences Strategy are led by School staff: Biophotonics & Imaging (Mahajan) and
 Chemistry of Life (Roach then Baud).
 Facilitation of interdisciplinary research also sits behind our philosophy of embedding research
 groups from other disciplines within the Chemistry building complex, as set out in REF2014 and
 extended during this period. Chemistry hosts the groups of Ponce de Leon and Wills
 (Electrochemical Engineering), Kanaras (Physics), Cruden (Energy Storage) and the nCATS

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 group (Tribology) led by Wood. This has deepened collaborations with groups in EC, CSC and
 FIMS, in particular. Similarly, Frey collaborates with Physics, Biology and the ORC developing
 soft X-ray laser imaging for biological samples. The imaging experiments, together with Minns’
 fast laser spectroscopy experiments are hosted in a dedicated lab in Physics, and with strong
 links to the hardware development at the Central Laser Facility. Staff (including Frey, Khalid,
 Lee) are engaged with the Rosalind Franklin Institute and we have agreement to locate the next
 generation of soft X-ray imaging hardware at the RFI.
 Over 30% of staff in Chemistry have funded collaborations with other Schools in FEPS,
 exploiting distinctive UoS facilities (e.g. ZI cleanrooms), the complementary expertise in
 molecular-level control that enables bottom-up atom-by-atom materials growth (Chemistry),
 through to fabrication, testing and evaluation of high-tech devices (Electronics Engineering) and
 large-scale equipment (Electrical, Mechanical and Materials Engineering).

 1.4 Facilitation of Impact
 UoS has a strong track record in realising impact from its research with support delivered through
 Research and Innovation Services (RIS, REF5a§1.5) including contracts and partnerships,
 consultancy, IP protection, fund-raising, legal services, spin-outs, etc., with incubation facilities at
 the Southampton Science Park.
 Chemistry surpasses this university-level support to achieve impact from our research. Under
 Chemistry’s leadership, Southampton became a partner (2016) of the Knowledge Centre for
 Materials Chemistry (KCMC), which brings materials chemistry-using industries together with
 academic research expertise and facilities to drive UK industrial growth. Reid sits on the KCMC
 Governing Board, while Hector and Bradshaw are UoS leads on the Management Board. The
 KCMC has led to collaborations with a range of SMEs and large organisations including, Victrex,
 Carrington Textiles, Urgo, Deregallera, Merck, Pilkington NSG, City Technology. Furthermore,
 Chemistry was instrumental in UoS being a founding partner in the Faraday Institution
 (REF5a§2.5), which strategically aligns with priorities in EC, CSC and FIMS, fostering research
 collaboration between universities and businesses as part of the UK’s industrial strategy.
 Three spin-outs are currently resident in Chemistry space: ATDBio (created by former staff
 member T Brown); Ilika Technologies (Hayden) and Curve Therapeutics (established in 2019 by
 Tavassoli, attracting £4.5M of venture capital funding). These are at different stages of maturity,
 and all bring significant advantages to the wider School community through research synergies
 and access to specialist equipment, in addition to financial benefits through formal facilities and
 collaboration agreements that support their continued growth and contribute to the sustainability
 of specialist facilities, e.g. the Advanced Composite Materials Facility (ACMF, §3.4) through our
 partnership with Ilika.
 Recent successes in translational activities include: IAA funding (Linclau, Frey, Skylaris,
 Kuprov, Mahajan, Raja, Reid), InnovateUK funding (Garcia-Araez, Hayden, Hector), KTPs
 (Frey, Russell) and STFC IPS funding (Reid, Hector). Staff secondments are supported to
 enable the successful translation of technology (e.g. Hayden: 50% secondment as CSO, Ilika;
 Tavassoli 75% FTE as CSO, Curve Therapeutics).
 Our REF2021 Impact Case Studies include two successful and mature spin-out companies (Ilika
 and ATDBio) that reflect areas of technology where we have focussed effort over a sustained
 period and where there has been demonstrable progress since 2013, one based on the
 development and commercialisation of a powerful computational software package (ONETEP)

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that enables calculations on large scale assemblies at a level of accuracy that surpasses
 conventional software, and a strategic public engagement programme (Water Transistor and
 Electrochemical Circus) focussed on engaging audiences with research in electrochemistry for
 the production of smaller, faster and smarter high tech devices, and demystifying
 electrochemistry in the school curriculum for teachers and pupils.
 Further impacts at an earlier stage of development include: the development of a diagnostic
 electrode in gas sensors (Russell), which is predicted to provide a financial benefit of $9M to
 sensor manufacturer City Technology over the first five years of sales, in addition to improved
 safety for end-users; based on Birkin’s sonochemistry research, purchase of intellectual property
 by a US manufacturer and a new company, Sloan Water Technology Ltd., established on the
 Southampton Science Park; the creation of spin-out HyperSpin Scientific, based on Meier’s
 development of dynamic nuclear polarization at UoS. In addition, the development of the
 ViridiCO2 catalyst platform results from our nurturing of impact and business potential in our
 PGR students; the technology was developed by Stewart (PhD 2020, followed by IAA) under the
 supervision of Raja, winning the Energy and Environment category of the 2020 RSC Emerging
 Technology Competition. Stewart has been accepted into Innovate UK’s entrepreneurial ICURe
 programme (REF5a§2.3).

 1.5 Open Research Environment
 The University has adopted a robust, progressive open access and open data position which,
 with support provided through the UoS Library and School ensures near 100% compliance. For
 UKRI-funded work, Green OA is the minimum position. The UoS institutional repository ePrints
 (REF5a§2.4) is used to make all outputs available, linked to authors, funding sources and data-
 sets, which are assigned a DOI.
 Leadership in open data is provided by Coles and Frey through their vision for the PSDS.
 Funded by a £3M EPSRC grant (began 2019); the PSDS succeeds the National Chemical
 Database Service as an EPSRC National Research Facility, providing a hub for aggregating and
 integrating data resources for the Physical Sciences, opening avenues for application of
 machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques across the data.

 1.6 Research Integrity
 Chemistry adheres to UoS policies (REF5a§2.8) for ensuring the highest standards of research
 integrity amongst all activities. All students and researchers receive training and guidance on
 ethics, plagiarism and research integrity through the Doctoral College; the Faculty Ethics
 Committee provides guidance and promotes best practice. We are guided in identifying possible
 conflicts of interest by the “Nolan” seven principles of public life. Clear policies have been
 developed around expectations for those involved in consultancies. A Register of Interests is
 maintained centrally and updated by individual staff on an annual basis.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 2.1 Delivering Excellence
 UoS is committed to delivering excellence in research, education, ECR and PGR training and
 development. We have an excellent record of sustaining and improving performance by
 attracting, developing and retaining high-achieving staff, and by nurturing and developing
 younger staff in the early stages of their careers. Where possible, we prioritise permanent
 appointments for staff over fixed-term contracts; of 46 submitted staff, 43 have permanent
 contracts and 3 are independent researchers. We strive to accommodate part-time and flexible
 working requests from staff at all levels (academic, technical clerical, RAs, PhDs) to meet their
 individual circumstances or in support of impact (e.g. secondments, §1.6). Reflecting the
 School’s commitment to provide flexible working opportunities, five of our Category A staff
 (3M,2F) are on fractional contracts.
 In accord with our ethos for EDI, all staff and PGRs undertake mandatory EDI training, with a
 refresher after 4 years (100% completion). The introduction of the Chemistry Code of Conduct in
 2019 further encourages positive, respectful relationships for staff and students at all levels. Our
 Common Room is used by staff and students across all areas, providing a central networking
 point within the School, helping to ensure a supportive community and strongly engaged staff. In
 the 2019 Staff Engagement Survey, Chemistry had a 77% response-rate, with 94% of staff
 agreeing/strongly agreeing that “My direct line manager treats me with respect”, and 89% that
 “My direct line manager and I have a positive working relationship.”

 2.2 Staffing Strategy
 Our research strategy informs the recruitment of internationally excellent researchers. Since the
 last REF census, we have appointed 7 new Category A staff to permanent contracts (Baud,
 Goldup, Pileio, Thompson, P. Wells, Hassan (UOA 12), Bimbo), as strategic hires aligned to
 Chemistry’s strategic priorities (§1.2), taking advantage of natural turnover to reinvest in younger
 talent and forward planning against upcoming retirements to provide continuity of internationally
 excellent research. Additionally, RS Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow L. Brown, RS URF Minns and IfLS
 Fellow Mahajan were confirmed to permanent positions.
 Staff appointments are made where we are confident that the individuals can be supported
 appropriately and complement and enhance our existing activities, including alignment to
 development of research infrastructure. Goldup was appointed (2014, promoted to full Professor
 2017) to enhance our portfolio in Supramolecular Chemistry. P. Wells was a strategic joint-
 appointment with DLS (promoted to Associate Prof., 2019), to build on the foundation of our
 strong links to the Catalysis Consortium and EPSRC Catalysis Hub via Russell, Raja,
 Carravetta, Skylaris. X-ray manager, Light transferred (2016) from the Technical pathway to
 the full academic pathway, aligning with investment in diffraction infrastructure, partly through
 renewal of the NCS (§3.1). As part of our strategic priorities for multidisciplinary research at the
 interface with biology and medicine (§1.2.2), Baud and Thompson were appointed to
 strengthen the CBDT group.
 Beyond Category A staff, staffing strategy includes:

   •   supporting impact - KCMC Knowledge Transfer Manager, Swart, is embedded in
       Chemistry, bringing >30 years’ experience in industrial R&D to the role. He facilitates



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       industry collaborations, highlighting funding mechanisms to support impact and assisting
       with applications (§1.4)
   •   maintaining and developing, through our commitment to the Technician Commitment, a
       community of technical staff to ensure strong support for research facilities throughout the
       School. For example, new research technician, Zhelev, supports research and
       infrastructure in EC, new research engineer, Gong, supports specialist NMR instrument
       development and new laboratory manager Villa-Garcia supports equipment in the ACMF.
 The development of Chemical Engineering has already allowed the recruitment of 2 CE staff
 (Hassan: simulation and modelling of capture, discharge and utilisation of gases; Bimbo:
 research focus in chemical processing using porous inorganic pillared clays).
 As well as strengthening our research groupings and developing cross-disciplinary synergies,
 we have sought to achieve a balanced age profile (35% staff <45, 41% 46-55, 24%>56).
 Academic posts are advertised widely with explicit consideration of EDI to seek applications from
 the widest possible talent pool. Currently, our M:F ratio among Category A staff remains almost
 unchanged from REF2014 (17% female cf. 18% in REF2014) and it is a priority to increase the
 proportion of female staff, partly through EDI considerations in our support and mentoring of
 younger researchers. Interview panels are gender balanced and receive guidance on
 unconscious bias. The three new non-UK appointments increased the proportion of international
 Category A staff to 39%.

 2.3 Career development

 2.3.1 Research Associates (RAs) and ECRs
 Since 2014, on average 73 RAs (31% female), distributed across the research groups, have
 been in post. Induction of all new RAs is provided upon arrival and, following completion of
 probation (RAs: 12-months; academics: 24-months), all staff (including RAs, ECRs and technical
 staff) are appraised annually, with specific focus on career aspirations and development needs
 to reach those goals, with Line Managers actively encouraging promotion applications when
 appropriate. Reviews with RAs prior to departure explore potential career opportunities. As well
 as academic mentors, we have a network of area-specific mentors signposted for RAs and
 ECRs who want support on a particular aspect of their work or life, covering work-life balance,
 maternity/paternity/caring, and LGBTQI issues.
 Since REF2014, we have consulted with researchers across the Faculty to develop an action
 plan that has prompted significant changes in our provision for our RA community. The Faculty
 policy complements UoS policies, focussing on disseminating the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers, institutional review of practice, and establishing
 professional development support for researchers. Chemistry has a research and teaching
 fellow network to provide a cohesive identity for researchers and to ensure that the seven
 principles of the Concordat are implemented. RAs are represented on several committees,
 providing insight into decision-making processes in the School.
 A package of events for RAs and ECRs has been developed in the Faculty and School,
 specifically intended to support their career and professional development. Training sessions
 tailored to RAs and ECRs are provided via the Centre for Higher Education Practice (CHEP,
 REF5a§3.5). All ECRs complete the PGCAP programme run through CHEP. This programme
 has a strong mentoring network to support staff towards achieving Fellowship/Senior Fellowship


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the HEA (Chemistry has 17 Fellows and 6 Senior Fellows of the HEA). RAs can take all or
 parts of the PGCAP course as part of their training, supported by teaching opportunities within
 Chemistry, potentially leading to FHEA status. Professional Development supports skills
 development in a range of other areas, including EDI, enterprise training, leadership and
 management skills. Examples of further bespoke training offered by Chemistry include external
 facilitator-led Lumina Spark reflective development training and group coaching (now being
 rolled out to other Schools in the Faculty), Pitching Persuasively (external facilitator) and grant-
 writing workshops. The School actively encourages participation in the annual UoS SpringBoard
 programme, supporting the development of early career female staff.
 We raise awareness of activities through a monthly newsletter and focussed advertising of
 funding opportunities specifically aimed at RAs and ECRs.
 To support the transition to independent academic positions for both internal and external
 candidates we have introduced a competitive selection process for encouraging and supporting
 fellowship applications. Independent research fellowships in Chemistry during this period
 include:
    •   RS URF: Carravetta (2007-15), Minns (2011-19), Goldup (2009-17)
    •   RS Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship: L Brown (2009-15)
    •   EPSRC Early Career Fellowships: Kuprov (2009-14); Garcia-Araez (2016-21); Meier
        (2018-19)
 Fellowship holders are supported at Faculty and School levels through the Fellowship
 Champions network, with assigned senior mentors and a supportive senior team to provide clear
 career guidance, coaching and advice on progression targets. Chemistry has a strong track-
 record of independent fellows securing permanent academic positions at the end of their
 fellowships. While most have transitioned to permanent academic positions at UoS, we take
 pride in the success of ECRs who have found success elsewhere. As an example, Meier won an
 ERC Synergy grant (2020) in Karlsruhe to build on his work in Southampton.
 New academics are supported by significant start-up funds, PhD studentship funding, as well as
 reduced teaching/administrative work-load allocations during their first 3 years. The
 effectiveness of support, including mentoring by senior staff through their probationary period
 and beyond, is evidenced by a 100% success rate for those new Chemistry staff eligible to apply
 for EPSRC First Grants or New Investigator Awards during this REF period, all of which were
 supported by PhD studentships.
 Career development and recognition for our technical staff (e.g. through staff achievement
 awards) is a focus at institutional level and ensured through the Technician Commitment. As
 examples, Zhelev was admitted to MInstP and achieved CPhys status, while an annual budget
 (£2.5k) is allocated to our workshop technicians to participate in specialist conferences or
 training.
 The annual Dean’s Prize rewards excellence in research, education, enterprise, public
 engagement and citizenship, recognising all areas in which our RA, ERC and technical staff
 community support the work of the School.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3.2 Established academic staff
 The development of all staff is discussed at annual appraisals, reflecting on the previous year,
 reviewing objectives and discussing career development (including opportunities for promotion),
 workload balance, research and funding strategy, publishing, outreach, education and work-life
 balance. An outcome of staff appraisals is to jointly set objectives for the coming period and to
 define development and training needs. Successful impact activities are recognised in our
 appraisal and promotion processes (REF5a§3.3, re-banding and additional increments and staff
 awards).
 We operate a Workload Tariff Model for all teaching, management and administrative roles in
 the School. This provides the basis for allocating duties in an equitable way and helps with
 managing facilities use and external visits or secondments to pursue research and/or impact.
 For short external visits/secondments (1-2 weeks), we adopt a flexible approach, through careful
 scheduling of teaching and having deputies for other duties; all UG modules are taught by two
 members of staff to maximise flexibility. Many staff have had leave to facilitate experimental
 beam-time at major UK (e.g. DLS: Russell, Hector, Stulz, Wells; ISIS: Raja; CLF: Minns, Frey)
 and international research facilities (e.g. Minns, Russell, Wells). Requests for longer visits are
 considered more formally by the School Operational Board, with input from the relevant Head(s)
 of Teaching to manage individual staff workloads. Recent examples include Levitt (TIFR
 Hyderabad; IISC Bangalore), Kuprov (University of Lille), Birkin (University of Utah),
 Carravetta (National Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics, Talinn).
 Our mentoring and support has proven successful in enabling career progression. Since 2014,
 10 staff (1F,9M) have been promoted to full professor and 6 (3F,3M) to associate professor. The
 success of our academic staff is also reflected in fellowships of prestigious learned societies;
 Bartlett and Levitt are Fellows of the Royal Society; Bartlett is a Fellow of the International
 Society of Electrochemistry; Levitt is a Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India and a
 Fellow of the International Society of Magnetic Resonance; 22 staff are Fellows of the Royal
 Society of Chemistry (RSC).

 2.4 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
 The University recognises the importance of improving gender and diversity equality in STEM
 disciplines, which can otherwise both severely reduce the quality of our research and negatively
 affect female and minority group career progression. In Chemistry, EDI training has been
 compulsory since 2014 and has been completed by 100% of our staff and PGRs. University
 policies (REF5a§3.8) are promoted within Chemistry, which has played an important pioneering
 role including as the first School at UoS to renew its Silver Athena SWAN Award in 2018,
 following a first Silver award in 2015. Receiving this for the second time highlights Chemistry’s
 continuing efforts to support the career aspirations of female chemists, whilst eliminating gender
 bias and promoting opportunities for all.
 As a founding signatory of the Athena SWAN Charter, we aim to maximise the potential of all our
 available talents. Several initiatives have been implemented, including: career guidance and
 development; peer mentoring; a Diversity charter; well-being surveys; changes to recruitment
 and selection policies to fully reflect our EDI ethos; all job adverts are screened by our Chemistry
 HR lead to ensure they conform to the School’s policies and to avoid unconscious bias. Three
 female professorial staff (Khalid, Reid, Russell) with School leadership responsibilities provide
 highly visible role models.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chemistry prioritises family support and many policies implemented from our Athena SWAN
 awards have been adopted University-wide. We operate a core-hours policy - all meetings are
 held during ‘family-friendly’ hours, enabling all staff to engage. Email policies have been
 introduced to promote good work-life balance and manage staff and student expectations.
 Flexible working is at the heart of our ethos in Chemistry, reflected at all levels. Part-time and
 flexible working is considered on a case-to-case basis with line-managers and the HoS – we
 always aim to support these. Variations to working hours have occurred at all levels irrespective
 of gender, both shorter and longer term, to accommodate caring responsibilities, individual
 health and well-being needs.
 The Chemistry EDI Committee (chair: L Brown), meets regularly with the HoS to reflect on
 Chemistry’s Action Plan and to identify good practice. It includes PGR, UG, ECR, technical and
 administrative staff representatives, our LGBTQI and Concordat champions and an
 outreach/admissions lead. The EDI report is a standing agenda item for the School Operational
 Board. An annual budget (£2k) is allocated for promotion of EDI in Chemistry.
 Full regard to EDI issues has been paid in the preparation of our submission, following the
 institution Code of Practice (REF5a§3.9). All staff have had the opportunity to input to this
 REF5b. Of the final selection of outputs, 17% are attributed to female colleagues, matching our
 staff ratio, and the main authorship of Chemistry’s four impact case studies also closely matches
 the gender split of our staff ratio (1F,3M). We have encouraged all Category A staff to declare
 (confidentially) any individual circumstances that may have influenced their productivity over the
 REF period.

 2.5 Well-Being
 The well-being of our staff and students is a priority and our approach aligns closely with that of
 the University. We commissioned an external provider to deliver bespoke training for staff
 around well-being and resilience. Our School well-being champion promotes opportunities for
 support and training across our community. In addition to pastoral support from Personal Tutors,
 PG Supervisors and the Graduate School leads, the University’s Enabling Services and First
 Support teams are available 24/7 to provide professional support for research students. All staff
 and their families can receive advice and support via a confidential Employee Assistance
 Programme provided by Legal & General. Referrals to Occupational Health (OH) are also
 encouraged where appropriate, initiated either via the individual or their line manager. ‘Return to
 Work’ meetings are held for staff returning from long-term absence or leave, and OH guide on
 adjustments or phased return to smooth the transition back into the School.
 The School well-being champion has played a crucial role in supporting staff and students during
 the COVID pandemic. Our response to the pandemic has also included regular meetings with
 staff and students, social activities, the circulation of on-line resources related to mental health,
 financial support for home working and actively encouraging line managers and supervisors to
 be mindful of student and staff well-being.

 2.6 Research Students
Chemistry works closely with the UoS Doctoral College and FEPS Graduate School to
coordinate training and monitor the progress of our talented and vibrant cohort of PhD and MSc
research students. They form a large, diverse, international and truly multidisciplinary research
community. Over the REF period 272 FPE (Full Person Equivalent) students (89F,183M) have
been awarded Chemistry PhDs. The research training and skills development in the Graduate

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
School is valued by the companies and SMEs that employ our graduates, e.g. BP, AWE, GSK,
AZ, Merck, Novartis.

       Year        2013/14    2014/15     2015/16     2016/17    2017/18     2018/19     2019/20

      PhDs
     awarded        41.15       36.10      43.80       35.95       51.30       30.60      33.50
      (FPE)


Since 2015, 14 EPSRC Doctoral Prizes have been awarded to exceptional PhD graduates in
Chemistry via the University panel, helping to develop these talented ECR staff in research
careers, supporting their leadership development and maximising the impact from their research.
Recruitment: PGR recruitment has continued to be strong since 2014, averaging 45 students
per year. The cohorts have a large international contingent, with 39% entering from the EU or
overseas. PhD students are supported variously by EPSRC DTP, CDTs, iCASE awards,
industrial sponsorships, competitively awarded UoS President’s Scholarships, IfLS studentships,
School funds, and a range of EU, Interreg and international scholarships (including Conacyt,
Chinese Scholarship Council, etc.). An increasing number (12 UK, 19 international) of research
MSc/MRes students have enrolled in Chemistry since 2014.
All PhD projects are advertised widely using national and international recruitment websites, with
adverts checked to ensure they meet our EDI expectations; candidates are interviewed by at
least 2 independent staff, with gender balance where possible. The PG Admissions Officer, HoS
and DHoS (Research) are gatekeepers to ensure the best candidates receive DTP or internal
funding, in line with Chemistry’s strategy. PGR funding is prioritised for ECR staff, excellent
research that leverages external industry funding, impact development and interdisciplinary
research.
Training and support: All PG students receive stipends at or above UKRI levels and are treated
equally with regards to supervision and training opportunities. They engage in subject-specific
training and safety following a quarterly ‘training needs analysis’ performed jointly with their
supervisory team, as well as generic, transferable skills training. There is a wide range of
advanced skills and knowledge courses and PG students are required to attend a subset of
these relevant to their research and to broaden their scientific knowledge. Students are expected
to attend relevant seminars and symposia selected from a vibrant programme including internal,
UK and international speakers, as well as symposia delivered by final year PhD students. They
are also strongly encouraged to contribute to national/international conferences, and we are
proud of their successes while representing Southampton. Many of our PGs have received
awards (e.g. PhD student Stephanie Chapman was selected to present her work at the 67th
Lindau Nobel Laureate meeting in 2017; Sylwia Ostrowska received the 2019 Magnetic
Resonance in Chemistry Young Scientist Award at Euroismar 2019; Hannah Macdonald won 1st
prizes for her talks at the German Conference on Cheminformatics (2017) and the Young
Modellers’ Forum (2017); Lee Steinburg won a MGMS/UK QSAR student prize (2018)).
 PGR reps from each section (75% F) meet regularly with the Graduate School leads. The
 School allocates an annual budget (£1k) for organisation of additional career development,
 networking and training opportunities and ‘PGR coffee and cake’, helping to build the



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community. Team-building training has been introduced to develop soft skills and to build the
 cohort.
 Recruitment and training of high quality PGRs has benefitted from our leading or involvement in
 5 EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training in:
    • Complex Systems Simulation (2009–18, PI=Essex);
    • Theory and Modelling in Chemical Sciences (2014–22, co-directors=Essex, Day, with
      Oxford, Bristol);

    • Integrated Magnetic Resonance (2011–18, Levitt, with Warwick, St Andrews/Dundee,
      Nottingham, Aberdeen);
    • Next-Generation Computational Modelling (2014–22, Engineering, Physics, Chemistry);
    • Energy Storage and its Applications (2014–22, Engineering and Chemistry with Sheffield)
 and the LabFact EU Interreg programme (PI=Harrowven, with Caen, Rouen, Le Havre, East
 Anglia).
 Monitoring: PGR progress is monitored formally via the Faculty Graduate School, with the
 Chemistry lead and deputy providing oversight and pastoral support to Chemistry PGRs. Each
 PGR is assigned primary and secondary supervisors who provide guidance on direction and
 progress throughout the PhD through regular informal discussions, group meetings, quarterly
 reports, etc. Formal progression hurdles occur at 9 and 18 months, involving written reports,
 inspection of experimental records, and a viva voce. Independent academics perform the role as
 one of the Examiners in the progression reviews, and as Internal Examiner for the PhD viva
 voce. Less experienced ECRs supervising students co-supervise with more senior staff to
 ensure appropriate guidance and support is available, and an experienced academic provides
 oversight of the examination processes.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Infrastructure and facilities
 Chemistry is housed in facilities that are either purpose-built and/or have undergone major
 refurbishment since 2000, providing excellent containment via ~170 fume cupboards, facilities
 for high pressure chemistry and a Cat 2 laboratory for biological samples. In addition to the
 capital investment in Chemical Engineering (£5.5M), since 2014 UoS has demonstrated its
 strong commitment to Chemistry by investing significantly (>£16M, 2016-20) in a major
 refurbishment of the original Chemistry building that houses the Electrochemistry research
 group. The works included complete replacement of the extraction system (plant and fume-
 cupboards) to create a much more energy-efficient wind-responsive system, provision of chilled
 recirculating systems to reduce water usage, improved fire safety (including fire trace systems in
 all fume-cupboards and external gases), as well as refurbishing the teaching laboratories. Other
 improvements include complete re-enveloping of the building and replacement of all windows, to
 increase the sustainability of the infrastructure and ensure the integrity of the building for at least
 25 years. The building upgrades also include improving Disability Discrimination Act access for
 staff and students, part of our commitment to EDI. Our target is to secure ~£20m funding to
 refurbish the Synthetic Chemistry Building (opened in 1999) in the coming REF period.




                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research is supported by the C&A group with expert staff, including specialists in NMR, mass
 spectrometry and diffraction (7 FTE), while computational support for CSC is provided centrally
 via the University’s iSolutions team. Two FTE mechanical workshop staff interface with a
 specialist NMR engineer. We also have 2 FTE Chemistry stores staff and an exceptional
 scientific glass-blowing workshop (3 FTE). A dedicated H&S Adviser leads training in risk
 management, COSHH and chemical safety, while our Facilities Manager is responsible for
 infrastructure maintenance across Chemistry.

 3.1.1 Key facilities

   •   The NCS and Southampton Diffraction Centre, led by Coles, provide world-leading
       expertise for structure determination and is amongst the highest throughput and most
       powerful crystallography labs in the world. These provide state-of-the-art ultra-high flux X-
       ray sources for single crystal structure determination with 2 Rigaku Superbright FR-E+,
       Rigaku 007 and Rigaku R-axis Spider diffractometers (the latter optimised for PDF
       analysis), a macromolecular crystallisation pipeline with robots and imaging facilities, a
       Bruker D2 Phaser for PXRD and a Rigaku SmartLab optimised for thin film and microfocus
       diffraction; a new Hypix 2D detector has enhanced our capabilities for GISAX analysis.
       The latest renewal (§3.2.4) has allowed, for the first time, contract research with industry
       and SMEs.
   •   Materials deposition and analysis capabilities have been enhanced significantly by
       establishment of the ACMF in 2014 (§3.2.4), housing a multi-chamber UHV system for
       combinatorial thin film material synthesis, device fabrication and surface analysis, coupled
       with a manufacturing cluster tool based on PVD methods (donation from Ilika). The School
       also hosts CVD rigs for thin film and nanoparticle growth, environmental SEM with
       EDS/WDS detectors. Photo- and e-beam lithography, sputtering, fabrication, FEGSEM,
       AFM, Raman and electrical characterisation facilities are available via the ZI and TEM via
       the Southampton General Hospital.
   •   NMR facilities include open-access service instruments (3 x 400MHz, 500MHz, incl.
       multinuclear capabilities) and specialist instruments. Specialist equipment for cryogenic
       NMR (to 1K) includes a unique cryogenic high-resolution MAS NMR probe for solid-state
       NMR experiments down to 9K; a home-built dissolution-DNP polariser (94GHz) with a
       dissolution wand capable of generating NMR signal enhancements by factors of up to 105
       at room temperature.
   •   The mass spectrometry facility includes a unique suite of instrumentation, affording the
       only open access GC-MS, HPLC-MS and Supercritical fluid chromatography (SFC)-MS
       facility worldwide, affording a comprehensive separation science suite to provide high-
       throughput solutions for a wider range of applications. This capability is complemented by
       higher performance, specialist instrumentation, including FTICR-MS, ion mobility MS,
       specialised capability in oligonucleotide analysis, high resolution MS, structural elucidation
       (MS/MS), petrochemical analysis and lipidomics (with Medicine). This facility has been
       enhanced further by an EPSRC capital equipment funds (§3.2.4). EPSRC Maximising
       Capability funds (£187K, 2018-20) fund a specialist analyst for our ion mobility mass
       spectrometer, to develop bespoke methods for advanced research projects, locally and
       regionally, and to engage other researchers by developing training activities.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Electrochemical equipment, specialist multichannel potentiostats, high-pressure
       equipment, battery lifetime cycling equipment and glove boxes for experiments associated
       with nanomaterial electrodeposition and battery research. A dedicated technician
       oversees these facilities, increasing their efficiency for external and internal projects, as
       well as providing training for Chemistry PGRs and RAs.
   •   10 dedicated glove boxes for synthesis, materials chemistry, electrodeposition and battery
       research.
   •   Integrated suite of flow reactors and in-line analytical tools for synthesis/electrosynthesis/
       catalysis.
   •   Multiple IR, Raman and UV-visible and fluorescence spectrometers.
   •   DNA synthesisers for oligonucleotide work, ITC and cold rooms.
 Maximum usage across UoS and externally and the sustainability of core facilities is achieved
 through their operation as Small Research Facilities.
 As evidenced by the recent refurbishment, sustainability is embedded in the School’s culture.
 Chemistry’s Sustainability Officer works as part of the Chemistry Energy Group (CEG) towards
 reducing our carbon footprint, feeding into the building refurbishment project. Energy efficiency
 improvements and carbon reduction initiatives are supported through a dedicated UoS carbon
 management fund, to which the CEG has bid successfully for several projects. These included
 funding (£50k) to replace all glassware drying ovens and funding to investigate solvent recycling,
 yielding significant savings.

 3.2 Research funding portfolio and plans:

 3.2.1 Research income
 Income in this period was £55.6M (REF4b), a 32% increase in funding rate since REF2014
 (£7.9M/yr cf. £6.0M/yr). This increase is due, in large part, to healthy increases in mean annual
 funding from UKRI sources, the Royal Society and BEIS (35% increase to £5.2M/yr). EPSRC is
 a major funding agency, together with BBSRC. EU and ERC sources have contributed ~£12.9M.
 Industry sources total £1.7M (excluding industry funding associated with PhD studentships and
 project partnerships on UKRI grants), with a further £1.8M from charities. Chemistry has very
 strong industrial commitment to its postgraduate research with over £3.6M in industry
 studentships since 2014, e.g. through CASE, CDT and individual contracts.
 In addition to the Fellowships detailed in §2, major strategic funding awarded in this REF period
 include:

   •   EPSRC Programme Grants:
         •   Advanced Devices by Electroplating, £6.3M, PI=Bartlett, with Hector, Reid;
         •   Photo-Electro (£6.5M; Nottingham-led, with R. Brown, Harrowven);
         •   Physics & Technology of Photonic Metadevices & Metasystems, £4.5M,
             PI=Zheludev (ORC) with Hayden;

         •   Next generation molecular imaging & therapy with radionuclides, £6.4M, KCL-led
             with Reid and Imperial College.



                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         •   Lighting the Way to a Healthy Nation, Transformative Healthcare Programme Grant,
             £4.5M (£2M to UoS), Mahajan with ORC and Medicine, UoS, and Edinburgh
   •   EPSRC Platform Grant (A Multidisciplinary Research Platform for Nuclear Spins far from
       Equilibrium), £1.5M; PI=Levitt, with R Brown, Carravetta, Pileio, Whitby;
   •   BBSRC Industrial Biotechnology Catalyst (IBCAT), £3.5M; PI=Linclau, with Lee;
   •   CRUK Programme Grant, £1M, PI=Tavassoli;
   •   EPSRC Automating Science Discovery AI Network+, £1M, PI=Frey.
 Staff in Chemistry have an excellent track record of securing prestigious ERC funding; grants
 held over this REF period include:
   •   Starting Grants: Bradshaw (2010-15), Day (2012-17), Mahajan (2016-20);
   •   Future and Emerging Technologies (FETOpen) grant: Utz (2016-2020);
   •   Consolidator Grant: Goldup (2017-22);
   •   Advanced Grants: Levitt (2012-16 and 2018-23);
   •   Synergy Grant: Day (2020-26).
 These large research programmes sit alongside a broad portfolio of standard grants, held across
 all research groups; 93% of our Category A staff held EPSRC or BBSRC awards during the REF
 period. We are confident that our research strategy will facilitate continued success in securing
 funding from a range of sources, maintaining a diverse research income portfolio.

 3.2.2 Professional services & facilities access
 Our staff consult for biotechs, large pharma, fine chemicals industries and Government
 agencies. We operate a successful professional service, Southampton Chemistry Analytical
 Solutions (led by Langley), providing commercial access to specialist spectroscopic, diffraction
 and scientific glass-blowing facilities and the collective expertise of the C&A group. This activity
 supports the instrumentation base in Chemistry and resources for future investments.

 3.2.3 Major Facility Use
 Chemistry makes considerable use of large facilities (synchrotron, neutron, lasers, etc.). The
 value of access to UK facilities is £10.4M since 2014 (REF4c). Staff have also been awarded
 >130 days at European (e.g. ALS, APS, Spring-8, ESRF, SOLEIL, ILL, SLS, HASYLAB) national
 facilities since 2014.

 3.2.4 Capital equipment
 The NCS National Research Facility was renewed for 2016-21 with £4.7M EPSRC funding, with
 £350K strategic UoS funding, allowing state-of-the-art instrumentation upgrades, as well as new
 advanced technique services (high pressure crystallography, gas cells, charge density analysis).
 The ACMF (§3.1) was established in Chemistry (2014) through EPSRC Capital Funding (£3.3M
 and £0.6M from Ilika; PI=Hayden), allowing the scale-up of materials on wafers using molecular-
 beam epitaxy based methodologies developed in Chemistry and their incorporation in advanced
 thin film devices in the energy, electronics, optoelectronics sectors, and compatibility with the




                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 clean-room fabrication facilities in the ZI. The ACMF has been enhanced further in 2019 through
 high-throughput equipment upgrades donated by Ilika (valued at £350k).
 The MR group has expanded its facilities with a £2M EPSRC equipment grant for advanced
 NMR instrumentation (Utz & Levitt, 2017), including a 700 MHz liquid state NMR system, two
 dedicated 400 MHz liquid state NMR spectrometers to support the group’s research in dynamic
 nuclear polarisation, and replaced the 400 MHz solid state NMR console. The equipment
 supports extensive collaboration across UoS, nationally and internationally.
 In 2019, an EPSRC Strategic Equipment grant (£856k, Langley (PI), Herniman, Attard and
 Raja with Bath, Swansea, Portsmouth) funded a multi-inlet gas chromatography high-resolution
 mass spectrometry, a unique capability within the UK academic sector. This capability is used by
 researchers across the southern region and will be extended to other academic and industry
 researchers to form a new Centre of Excellence (§1.2.2).

 3.2.5 High Performance Computing (HPC)
 HPC is a strategic enabler to many of our research goals and UoS has made significant
 investments in this area (REF5a). Iridis, the University’s HPC, remains one of the most powerful
 computational facilities in the UK. In 2017, Iridis5 joined the elite of the world’s top 500
 supercomputers and, running alongside Iridis4, provides over 32,000 processor-cores, as well
 as a new Data Intensive service, 20 of Nvidia’s enterprise GPUs, and a dedicated data
 visualisation service. The machines are free to access for all research staff and students,
 supporting ambitious research in the CSC group and facilitating widespread use of
 computational approaches across Chemistry. The CSC group also secures regular access to
 national Tier 1 (ARCHER) and Tier 2 HPC facilities through competitive applications,
 membership of High-End Computing consortia and Tier 2 computing centres. Southampton is a
 founding member of Science and Engineering South, the Materials Modelling Hub (Skylaris as
 co-I) and JADE (Khalid as co-I), the Joint Academic Data Science Endeavour. Essex, Skylaris,
 Day, Khalid have received > 2,000,000 kAUs (kilo-allocation units) on ARCHER since 2014,
 with a value of ca. £1.6M.

 3.2.6 University Library
 The Library provides electronic access to >1200 chemistry journals, including Gold level RSC
 subscription and all ACS journals, as well as access to online databases, including Web of
 Science, Scopus, SciFinder Scholar, Reaxys and INSPEC.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Collaboration overview
 Chemistry’s strategic links with academic and industrial research around the world are supported
 through EU networks, programmes such as the EPSRC/NSF and EPSCR/SFI collaborations,
 Erasmus programmes, the World University Network and others. A key example is the ARAP
 scheme with A*STAR, Singapore (15 joint PhD students), supported at University level through
 bilateral 2+2 PhD programmes.
 We host many distinguished international visitors, most with prestigious scholarships, including
 from the US, Canada, China, India, Singapore and Europe. As well as externally-funded visits,
 international collaboration is supported by the University’s Global Fellowships scheme,



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing collaborative partnerships through support of a range of activities, including
 significant time spent at UoS.

 4.2 International, national and industrial research collaborations
 We have a wide range of collaborations where the team brings together the appropriate
 combination of expertise and skills to meet the scientific challenge. Important examples of
 international activities include:
    •   Harrowven is PI on an EU Interreg programme (€5.7M), LabFact, uniting world-class
        research centres located in the Channel area (Caen, Rouen, Le Havre, East Anglia,
        Southampton).

    •   Raja is a member of the EU-funded MULTI2CAT program with academic and industrial
        partners in in Spain, Germany, Italy, Belgium and France.

    •   Levitt is PI on a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network, with partners in
        Germany, Poland, Italy, France, Spain and the UK.

    •   Garcia-Araez and Bartlett hold a Royal Society International Grant with the University of
        Buenos Aires and Research and Knowledge Transfer Centre of Jujuy.
    •   Extensive academic collaborations exist between Southampton and international
        research groups. 48% of 1403 papers published in the REF period have international
        collaborators.
 Nationally, Chemistry has very strong links with academic and industrial partners. Examples
 include:

    •   Frey leads the EPSRC AI3SD Network+ (Artificial Intelligence and Augmented
        Intelligence for Automated Investigations for Scientific Discovery).

    •   Whitby is PI on the EPSRC Dial-a-Molecule Grand Challenge network.
    •   Research Complex at Harwell through the EPSRC Catalysis Hub (Wells, Russell, Raja).
    •   Roach with Dstl on novel protein targets and their inhibitors for protection against
        bacterial biological warfare agents and antibiotic resistant pathogens.
    •   Russell with the Johnson Matthey Tech. Centre to advance development and
        understanding of the cathode & anode components in electrocatalysts and fuel cells.

    •   Reid with GE Healthcare, KCL and Imperial College, developing new metal fluoride
        complexes as scaffolds for rapid, late-stage F-18 radiolabelling; with Holmes (Cork), de
        Groot and Hector on chalcogenide semiconductors and applications; with Deregallera
        and Epivalence.

    •   Langley with Innospec on fuel quality and IDIDs, Waters on SFC-MS and Bath,
        Swansea and Portsmouth Universities on 2D GC-MS.
 UoS encourages enterprise and innovation in science and, in keeping with this ethos, Chemistry
 has strong links with business and industry. Many examples were discussed in §1.6. 16 of our
 Category A staff have had active consultancies with industry since 2014, working with a variety of
 large, international companies and SMEs, e.g. Morgan Innovation and Technology (L. Brown),
 AstraZeneca (Stulz), Dassault Systèmes (Skylaris), Dextra Laboratories/New Zealand
 Pharmaceuticals (Linclau) and UCB (Essex).

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Sustainability
 Academics in the School contribute to the health and sustainability of the discipline through
 actively taking leadership roles, such as:
   •   Delivering Plenary and Keynote lectures: over half of our category A staff have delivered
       plenary or keynote lectures at international conferences, totalling > 110 in this REF period.

   •   Holding visiting professorships and visiting academic positions at international institutions,
       including: Bartlett: Visiting Professor, Memorial University, St John’s, Newfoundland,
       Canada (2015); Coles: Visiting Professor, University of Cagliari, Italy (2015); Visiting
       Academic; Denuault: Visiting Professor, University of Sao Paulo (2015-16); Khalid:
       Distinguished visitor, Bangalore, India; Kuprov: Visiting Professor, University of Lille
       (2016); Linclau: Visiting Professor, Ghent University (2015-); Nandhakumar, Academic
       Visitor, Singapore ASTAR (2017); Raja: Eminent Visiting Scientist, Institute for Materials
       Research & Engineering, ASTAR Singapore (2016); Academic Visitor, IIT Madras (2018)
       and Jilin University, China (2018); Rios, Visiting Professor in SKKU, South Korea (2015-
       19); Stulz: Visiting Professor, University of Bordeaux (2016).
   •   Organising, chairing and co-chairing international conferences and meetings, including:
       Chairs of two Gordon Conferences (Bartlett, Goldup), two Faraday Discussion meetings
       (Minns, Day), co-organisers of ISACS16, Challenges in Chemical Biology conference
       (Tavassoli, ETH, Zurich, 2015) and co-organiser of CECAM workshop of Frontiers in
       Computational Biophysics (Khalid, Switzerland, 2018) and co-organiser, chair and co-chair
       respectively of Hyphenated Techniques in Chromatography (Langley Ghent 2016, Cardiff
       2018, Ghent 2020).
   •   23 staff are members of one or more journal editorial boards. Examples: Associate
       editors: Bradshaw: (Coordination Chemistry Reviews); Goldup (Chemical Science);
       Kuprov (Science Advances); Editorial board members: Bartlett (ChemElectroChem,
       Current Opinion in Electrochemistry); Coles (Crystallography Reviews, Supramolecular
       Chemistry); Day (Faraday Discussions, CrystEngComm); Essex (Journal of Computer-
       Aided Molecular Design); Frey (Journal of Cheminformatics, Patterns (Cell Press));
       Garcia-Araez (Journal of Materials Chemistry A); Khalid (Scientific Reports); Langley
       (Rapid Communication in Mass Spectrometry); Lee (Molecules (MDPI)); Levitt (Journal of
       Magnetic Resonance, Journal of Chemical Physics); Light (Transition Metal Chemistry);
       Nandhakumar (Scientific Reports); Raja (Catalysis); Read (Education in Chemistry); Rios
       (Frontiers in Chemistry, Scientific Reports); Russell (Chemical Society Reviews); Stulz
       (Cogent Chemistry); Tavassoli (RSC Chemical Biology); P.Wells (Catalysis, Structure and
       Reactivity). Advisory boards: Day (Molecular Systems Design & Engineering); Hector
       (Royal Society Open Science).
   •   Standing on a range of national and international committees, steering groups and special
       interest groups, such as: Reid became President-elect of the RSC in 2020 (President
       2022-24); President of the International Society of Electrochemistry (Bartlett, 2017-18);
       Chair of the Scientific Advisory Board for the ROAR centre at Imperial College, London
       (Whitby, 2018-), Expert Panel members of the Faraday Institution (Russell and Owen),
       EPSRC High Level Advisory Group for the National Research Facilities (P.Wells), IUPAC
       – GO FAIR Chemistry Implementation Network (Coles), Khalid leads the High End
       Computing Biosym consortium and Day led the organic and soft matter theme (2014-18)


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       and leads the materials discovery theme (2018-) on the steering committee of the Materials
       Chemistry Consortium; these consortia allocate national HPC time. Langley is President of
       the International Mass Spectrometry Foundation (2020-24), Vice Chair of IMSF (2016-20),
       Chair of the Separation Science Group of the RSC (2010-), chromatography-mass
       spectrometry lead for SCG4 of the Energy Institute (2009-), Member of RSC AD Council
       (2014-19).
   •   Advisory roles to the academic community, including: Member of International Advisory
       Board State Key Laboratory Physical Chemistry of Solid Surfaces, Xiamen, China
       (Bartlett); Chair of Royal Society Committee 3 (2019-20) (Bartlett); Royal Society URF Aii
       Panel Chair (Bartlett); International review of Chemistry, Gebze Institute of Technology,
       Turkey (Coles); Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Panel (Reid); EPSRC SATs (Frey,
       Khalid); Leverhulme Trust advisory board (Khalid); ExCALIBUR advisory board (Khalid);
       International Expert Panel for Canadian Innovation Foundation (Reid); International review
       – Trinity College Dublin and UCC (RoI) (Reid); Panel members for grant (e.g. Royal
       Society, EPSRC, ERC) and facilities access. 28 staff are members or associate members
       of the EPSRC peer review college and review for international funding bodies (e.g. NSF,
       IRC, SFI, Dutch, Finnish, German, Polish, Canadian and NZ national research councils);
       Expert reviewers for the ERC (Mahajan, Day, Frey, Levitt, Nandhakumar, Kuprov).
       Smith is Senior Independent Member of EPSRC’s Council and board member of the
       Higher Education Funding Council for Wales.
 Our academic staff’s contribution to the community has been recognised through a number of
 awards and prizes during this REF period, including: Smith: awarded a CBE for contributions to
 research and HE; Bartlett: Alessandro Volta Medal of the Europe Section of the American
 Electrochemical Society (2014); Galvani Medal of the Electrochemistry Division of the Italian
 Chemical Society (2015); Giulio-Milazzo Prize of the Bioelectrochemical Society (2015); Luis
 Federico Leloir Award, presented by the Argentine Minister for Science (2016); Breyer Medal,
 Electrochemistry Division of the Royal Australian Chemical Institute (2017); Royal Society
 Wolfson Research Fellowship (2014-19); Baud: Roger Griffin Prize for Cancer Drug Discovery
 2016 (BACR & Astex); Birkin: S-Lab Award Winner (2014); L. Brown: Eli Lilly OIDD
 Undergraduate Award (2014); Goldup: RSC Hickinbottom Award (2014); RSC Bob Hay
 Lectureship (2017); Royal Society Wolfson Research Fellowship (2019-24); Blavatnik finalist
 (2020); Langley: British Mass Spectrometry Society Lectureship (2016); Levitt: Russell Varian
 Prize in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (2015); Pileio: BRSG-NMRDG Award for Excellent
 Contribution to Magnetic Resonance (2015); Read: National Teaching Fellowship (2017);
 Tavassoli: RSC Protein and Peptide Science Award.(2017) and European Peptide Society’s
 Leonidas Zervas Award (2020).




                                                                                         Page 23
