Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Bedfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 24


     1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Contributors to Unit of Assessment (UoA) 24 lead novel programmes of research, extending
 knowledge and evidence-based interdisciplinary practice in the field of sport and exercise science,
 physical education, health psychology, behavioural science and public health. They harness
 innovative methodologies, interventions and strategies to solve real-world problems with
 considerable societal and economic impact at international, national and local levels.

 All eleven (11) staff whose outputs are entered into REF2021 are full members of the Institute for
 Sport and Physical Activity Research (ISPAR), based at the Bedford campus of the University of
 Bedfordshire (UoB). ISPAR facilitates translational applied research, enabling members to publish
 internationally recognised outputs with clear pathways to impact.

 ISPAR’s strategic mission is: to lead in the development of translational interdisciplinary research
 related to sport and physical activity, aimed at enhancing education, performance, health and well-
 being.

 All full members of ISPAR are employed within the School of Sport Science and Physical Activity
 (SSPA), with 400 hours per year ring-fenced to research and other scholarly activity (ROSA).
 These staff also sit on the ISPAR Board, namely [current staff]: Aldous, Charalambous, Chater,
 Fletcher, Hill, Jones (nee Stannard), Mitchell, Newell, Richards, Smith & Zakrzewski-Fruer [0.6fte];
 and [former staff]: Bailey. The ISPAR Board works as a committee to oversee ISPAR activities.

 ISPAR also has affiliate members from SSPA and the Faculty of Education and Sport, who will be
 supported for the next REF period. These members, namely Baird, Dwyer, Ferrandino (nee Croft),
 Golding, Ives, Jones, Kozub, Pears, Robinson, Stewart, Wilson, Wu, Wild, Sammon, Bowler and
 Keyworth, also contribute to the research environment.

 Under the leadership of Chater and Mitchell since 2016, ISPAR has shifted its strategy from a
 pedagogy focus in REF2014, to a focus on human performance, physical activity, health, well-
 being and behaviour change for REF2021, with a specific objective to address the health
 challenges faced globally in society.

 The strategic aims of ISPAR are aligned with global public health goals, such as the United
 Nations ‘Sustainable Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being’, with Chater identified as one of ten
 international influencers of this UN goal by the President of the European Health Psychology
 Society in her annual address in 2018. Nationally, ISPAR has aligned itself with Sport England,
 governmental and public health objectives, including:

    ●   Achieving national behaviour change in relation to physical inactivity (and beyond)
    ●   Supporting NHS need, such as the rehabilitation of those living with long-term conditions
        (to include ‘long COVID’)
    ●   Sport policy (e.g. meeting the priority areas for Sport England, including increasing
        participation for women and girls)
    ●   PE curriculum development (e.g. enhancing health literacy)
    ●   A focus by Government and funders towards prevention (of long-term conditions),
        informed by behavioural science.

 With this focus, ISPAR is well positioned as a leading institute in the area of ‘moving medicine’
 and the benefit of physical activity, sport and PE for physical health and psychological well-being
 across the lifespan. This is evidenced through ISPAR staff and students providing direct
 consultancy and research to key stakeholders.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 ISPAR undertakes collaboration, co-creation, consultancy and knowledge exchange with a range
 of partners:

    ●   NHS providers: e.g. Bedford Hospital, Luton and Dunstable Hospital, Great Ormond Street
        Hospital, local GP practices, Total Wellbeing Luton (integrated physical and mental health
        service)

    ●   Sports clubs: e.g. Watford Football club, Bedford Blues Rugby Club, Stevenage Football
        Club, Luton Town Football Club

    ●   Stakeholder organisations: e.g. Sport England, Team Beds & Luton Active Partnership,
        Virgin Active, FIFA, New Balance, Paradance, Local Authorities, Public Health England,
        Public Health Wales, CHUMS (child emotional health), SHINE (Spina Bifida,
        Hydrocephalus), Diabetes UK, Richmond group of charities for the ‘We are Undefeatable’
        campaign

    ●   Target populations: those living with obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease, those
        with disabilities, school children, physical education (PE) teachers, elite athletes, blue-light
        services (police, fire)

 A wide section of society benefits from ISPAR’s research, embracing a broad spectrum of
 interdisciplinary perspectives. These range from life and biomedical sciences to the social
 sciences, seeking solutions to the physical inactivity epidemic and enhancing human performance
 in sectors related to sport, education, health and well-being.

 ISPAR’s interdisciplinary membership includes sports scientists, behavioural scientists,
 psychologists, biomechanics, nutritionists, exercise physiologists, sociologists, physical
 educators, coaches and policy professionals. Research spans the life-course, working with
 children and young people, often in school settings, to adults and older adults within the
 community, workplace and health care environments.

 To achieve ISPAR’s strategic mission, the Institute follows the following four objectives:

    1. To foster world-leading interdisciplinary research related to physical activity and sport
       with individual, educational, societal and political impact;

    2. To produce novel research to determine the basic underlying mechanisms for injury
       and disease prevention, treatment optimisation and human performance;

    3. To develop, deliver and evaluate evidence-based interventions in areas related to
       physical activity and sport, to improve population health, well-being, performance,
       education and social inclusion with sustained impact;

    4. To collaborate with partners to optimise the translation of research into practice in
       various contexts in a sustainable manner.

 Strategic aim 1: To foster world-leading interdisciplinary research related to physical
 activity and sport with individual, educational, societal and political impact
 Since her recruitment in 2016, Chater’s leadership has facilitated the development of three ISPAR
 research centres that strategically align with the institute’s core mission and objectives:

   1. Centre for Health, Well-being and Behaviour Change (led by Chater);
   2. Centre for Physical Education, Sport & Human Movement (led by Hill);
   3. Centre for Physical Activity and Human Performance (led by Bailey and Fletcher until 2020;
      now led by Aldous and Jones (nee Stannard).


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These research centres are led by senior staff with strong national and international reputations
 in their fields. Staff and postgraduate research (PGR) students are aligned to at least one research
 centre and each centre hosts three special interest groups led by staff active in specific areas of
 research.

 The research centres are tasked with and expected to facilitate the achievement of the strategic
 objectives of ISPAR. Centres meet monthly to discuss research-related activities, facilitate grant
 applications and paper submissions through discussion and peer-review, and identify cross-
 centre, cross-institute and interdisciplinary research opportunities. Examples of cross-centre
 research include the evaluation of Sport England’s ‘This Girl Can’ campaign, by an MA by
 Research PGR student (Price) led by Hill (pedagogy and social justice), Chater (psychology and
 behaviour change), Wilson (sport policy and management) and Ives (sport policy and practice).

 An example of a cross-institute programme of research is that on workplace sedentary behaviour
 and cardiometabolic health, with ISPAR staff: Bailey and Chater working alongside Professor
 David Hewson from the Institute for Health Research (IHR), all of whom co-supervised PhD
 student Ojo. This has fostered several other collaborations and successful grant applications,
 including £137,510 from Diabetes UK, testing an intervention to break up sitting time on diabetes
 management; and £99,977 from the Abbeyfield Research Foundation looking at sitting and
 sarcopenia. All ISPAR research is encouraged to be interdisciplinary (within and outside of ISPAR)
 and draw from a bio-psycho-social model, seeing the target population within a ‘whole system’
 with the expectation of impact. ISPAR members actively seek out opportunities to disseminate
 their work for impact, through links with partners, speaking in arenas including the Houses of
 Parliament, and through media and public engagement.

 The ISPAR board records progress, celebrates success, openly discusses rejection to balance
 disappointment, and nurtures motivation towards research. The ISPAR board and research centre
 meetings are minuted to capture this information, which are shared with the Education and Sport
 Faculty Executive Group and the university-level Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee.
 An online area within ISPAR’s virtual learning environment (BREO) and a dedicated space on
 Microsoft Teams enables research centre and institute-wide discussion, and sharing of materials,
 while also highlighting opportunities for grants, training, and staff/PGR development. An ISPAR
 newsletter supports the environment further and is disseminated to the broader university and
 research partners to facilitate wider awareness and impact.

 Strategic aim 2: To produce novel research to determine the basic underlying
 mechanisms for injury and disease prevention, treatment optimisation and human
 performance
 Understanding the bio-psycho-social mechanisms for the prevention and treatment of injury and
 disease, and processes for optimal learning and human performance are a particular strength of
 ISPAR. Staff discuss their unique selling points (USPs) to research at their annual ROSAs, with
 clearly developed areas of expertise: Mitchell (lower limb biomechanics), Charalambous (gait and
 posture), Fletcher (strength and conditioning), Aldous (environmental physiology), Jones (nee
 Stannard) (supplements), Zakrzewski-Fruer (breakfast consumption), Richards (cardiac
 functioning), Smith (cardiometabolic risk), Hill (social justice), Chater (behaviour change), Newell
 (metabolism), Bailey (sedentary behaviour). Working collaboratively across research centres as
 part of strategic aim 1, facilitates novel research and combined methodologies that extend
 scientific knowledge into the underlying mechanisms for injury and disease prevention, treatment
 optimisation and human performance ensuring a truly interdisciplinary approach. All research aims
 to extend existing knowledge, rather than solely contributing to the science, evidenced in this
 UoA’s 3-4* outputs.

 Strategic aim 3: To develop, deliver and evaluate evidence-based interventions in areas
 related to physical activity and sport, to improve population health, well-being,
 performance, education and social inclusion with sustained impact



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since developing the new strategic aims, ISPAR has built the research environment to support
 world-leading theoretically-driven and evidence-based research, ensuring that it is disseminated
 to key stakeholders.

 The Active Herts Programme
    ● Chater’s work on the ‘Active Herts’ community-based physical activity programme
       https://www.activeherts.org.uk/healthcare-professionals/our-approach/ has been widely
       cited and generated strong impact. Active Herts has received over £1million from Sport
       England, local authority and partners, centrally led by Herts Sports Partnership, with
       Chater awarded £36,400 to facilitate the development, delivery (including training of
       registered exercise professionals in communication skills and behaviour change) and
       evaluation of the programme using the theoretical methodology of the Behaviour Change
       Wheel (BCW).

    ●   Active Herts has reached over 4000 inactive adults from the Hertfordshire area who were
        at risk of cardiovascular disease and/or poor mental health, offering one-to-one support
        from an exercise professional trained by Chater and access to local exercise opportunities.
        The programme has significantly enhanced population-level physical activity engagement
        and well-being.

    ●   This programme, developed through Chater’s research which is focused on the Theoretical
        Domains Framework, the BCW, and the Behaviour Change Technique Taxonomy, was
        nominated for a Health and Well-being award in 2018 by the Royal Society for Public
        Health and has been used by Public Health England (PHE), the Local Government
        Association, the British Psychological Society and the University College London’s Centre
        for Behaviour Change as a case study of best practice in the design, delivery and
        evaluation of theoretically-driven interventions.

    ●   At the hub of the BCW, the COM-B model proposes that people need the capability (C),
        opportunity (O) and motivation (M) to change behaviour (B), providing a stepped approach
        to intervention development. Chater is an internationally recognised researcher in this area
        and has built capacity across ISPAR to use this approach. This is evidenced in outputs
        from Bailey, Smith and Zakrzewski-Fruer, and will feature in future outputs from Aldous,
        Richards, Mitchell, Hill and Newell currently in preparation. Active Herts features in the
        most recent Sport England guidance on Behaviour Change Design Principles, PHE’s
        ‘Achieving Behaviour Change: A guide for local government and partners’ and in a Sport
        England symposium highlighting the importance of behavioural science in programme
        design, delivery and evaluation. Aspects of this work have been disseminated at an all-
        party parliamentary group (APPG) event by Chater in the House of Commons on behalf of
        the British Psychological Society (Dec 2018) on ways to use behavioural science to tackle
        physical inactivity and obesity.

    ●   To disseminate how to use COM-B to change behaviour to the general population, Chater,
        alongside a registered exercise professional from the Active Herts delivery team, and a
        client of the Active Herts legacy service Active Watford & Three Rivers, featured as part of
        a BBC documentary, (The Truth about Improving Your Mental Health, 20th January 2021,
        BBC One, 9pm), which saw a subsequent increase in referrals to the service after it was
        aired, and Chater has been an invited speaker in the main auditorium at Cheltenham
        Science Festival (June 2019) to discuss behaviour change, physical activity and obesity.

 Other influential projects
    ● Building capacity for research in this area further, Chater has trained other registered
        exercise professionals and health coaches as part of a recently funded (£2.2 million NIHR-
        HTA) READY trial that aims to test if physical activity can be used as a treatment for young
        people living with depression, and in a Diabetes UK grant (£137,510) with Bailey that will
        test if breaking up sitting time can help manage type 2 diabetes.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Similar training has been provided to the Richmond group of charities, to representatives
        whose remit is the promotion of physical activity for Sport England’s ‘We are Undefeatable
        campaign’ representing Age UK, Asthma UK, Breast Cancer Now, Alzheimer’s Society,
        British Red Cross, Versus Arthritis, Macmillan, Stroke, Diabetes UK, Mind, Parkinson’s
        Society and the MS Society, using examples from Active Herts to support their
        organisational objectives.

    ●   Internationally, Chater has disseminated this work as an invited speaker to the Moldovian
        Government, offering solutions to non-communicable diseases through physical activity.
        This involved work from her systematic review being translated into Russian and
        Romanian. Recent grant submissions led by Zakrzewski-Fruer (British Heart Foundation),
        Bailey (Wellcome Trust) and Wyld (MRC Public Health Intervention Development scheme)
        and PGR projects with police and fire services (Aldous, Richards, Mitchell) have used this
        behaviour change approach, benefitting from the interdisciplinary collaborations promoted
        in strategic aim 1.

    ●   This behaviour change approach has been used to benefit the response to the COVID-19
        pandemic, using ’roadmaps’ from Chater’s behaviour change training model, and research
        with other ISPAR members such as Bailey and Smith, to develop national guidance,
        published by the British Psychological Society that has been used within local authorities
        nationally, promoted by Public Health England and Public Health Wales and used as
        evidence to SPI-B and SAGE.

    ●   Chater has further spoken in the House of Lords (Dec 2018) on ways to use summer sports
        clubs to support ‘holiday hunger’ in young people, linking Zakrzewski-Fruer (breakfast
        consumption), Newell (metabolism) and Hill (education and social justice) to future
        research opportunities.

 Strategic aim 4: To collaborate with partners to develop innovative evidence-based
 interventions that optimise the translation of research into practice in a various contexts
 in a sustainable manner.
 The way ISPAR collaboratively works with key stakeholders, wider research networks and
 community members has been revolutionised. In 2016, ISPAR had its first annual research
 conference, in which staff and PGR students presented their work to both disseminate and
 generate collaboration. It is attended annually by external physical activity and public health
 organisations and members of the public. The conference (annually led by Zakrzewski-Fruer and
 Chater) is supported by a monthly ISPAR Seminar Series (led by Aldous and Chater) in which
 internationally recognised researchers are invited to the university to present. The speakers are
 selected strategically to encourage collaborations that will strengthen the research priorities of
 ISPAR and its interdisciplinary objectives. These seminars have been online since March 2020,
 which has enabled international speakers (e.g. Australia), and a significant increase in attendance
 has been observed both internally and externally, widening ISPAR’s reputation. Seminars are now
 live-streamed on YouTube by Newell, using a novel and vibrant digital platform to enhance
 engagement. ISPAR additionally hosts bi-weekly research training workshops, bi-monthly two-
 hour ‘Shut Up and Write’ sessions (to work on collaborative outputs and grants) and an annual
 research strategy away day, which includes ‘research speed dating’ to facilitate further
 collaboration.

 ISPAR holds an annual ‘BedsTalk’, a campus-based community event, attended by over 100
 delegates, designed to translate research findings into public practice and disseminate to the
 general population. Events focus on areas of research such as 2019’s “Pathways to health and
 well-being through physical activity” and 2020’s “Promoting young people’s health and well-being
 through physical activity”. The events promote public engagement in health-based physical activity
 and offer health checks (e.g. body mass index, blood pressure) to the local community. As part of
 the BedsTalk, ISPAR has created an #ActiveCampus movement, led by Bailey, Chater, Smith,
 Mitchell and Zakrzewski-Fruer, encouraging standing meetings and breaking up sitting time each


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hour, based on their research into the benefits on cardiovascular and mental health, which the
 university’s central HR department embraces.

 Members and affiliates of ISPAR, specifically Richards, Charalambous, Bailey, Chater, Aldous,
 Ferrandino (nee Croft) and Wyld have links with Bedfordshire’s Clinical Commissioning Group,
 local and national weight management services, local Healthwatch, Bedford Diabetes UK Support
 Groups, PHE, regional GPs, dieticians, and Active Partnerships, who all attend. Local children,
 adolescents, families and teachers via regional schools, (relationship-liaison through Hill, Baird,
 Sammon and Bowler), those from deprived areas via community groups, older adults via care
 homes and individuals with disabilities via local disability groups (relationship-liaison Ferrandino
 (nee Croft) and Mitchell) also regularly attend ISPAR events.

 These events allow PGR students to meet stakeholders, service users, and those interested in
 either being part of, or funding, future research, or who may use ISPAR’s research in an impactful
 way. The dissemination of PGR and staff research conducted within ISPAR to these groups has
 resulted in the development and success of collaborative research funding applications (e.g. the
 Medical Research Council and National Institute of Health Research), resulting in high-quality
 publications.

 Frequently ISPAR engages the public and stakeholders, deliverers and commissioners in
 discussions on how they can become involved in research, either directly as participants or
 indirectly by providing patient and public involvement in PGR research and research grants, which
 further enhances ISPAR’S research environment. This ensures that the research in this UoA has
 a real-life impact, for example by helping people achieve the current physical activity guidelines.
 PGR students contribute to both the development and delivery of all events, and often use these
 occasions to collect data for their research.

 Charities such as SHINE have partnered with ISPAR to deliver events encouraging individuals
 with disabilities to increase their physical activity, based on ISPAR’s research and intervention
 strategies.

 ISPAR engages the public with research at community events, such as the Bedford River Festival
 (14-15th July 2018) and the Bedford Running Festival (31st August & 1st September 2019), with
 estimates of 350,000 and 14,000 visitors. These events provide a platform to share research
 activities with the public and the chance to encourage physical activity and positive health and
 well-being within the community. Members of the public often enquire about opportunities to
 participate in research and several PGR students have used this as an opportunity to recruit and
 collect data (with planned prior ethical approval).

 Building capacity for the next REF: Several SSPA staff members who were not entered into
 REF2021 will receive support to enter the next research assessment. For example Baird,
 Ferrandino (nee Croft), Wilson and Wyld are being supported through ROSA mentoring and active
 research teams to provide guidance, opportunities and motivation to build research profiles.
 ISPAR’s strategic aims will continue, with adaptations to the research environment, such as re-
 branding the special-interest groups to ‘research labs’ to support researchers’ progression into
 more leadership roles (including supporting Aldous and Jones as new research centre leads since
 the departure of Bailey in 2020). An annual report celebrating all achievements (e.g. income
 capture, publications, PGR progression, impact) will also be produced.

 2. People

 Recruit: Staff from research intensive universities, e.g. University College London (Chater),
 University of Westminster (Newell), and Nottingham Trent University (Jones nee Stannard) have
 been recruited to SSPA since 2014 to support the development, implementation and leadership
 of ISPAR’s strategic aims. Research expertise is important when recruiting new staff and internal
 promotions.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Retain: Promotions to senior research positions, such as to professor (Chater), reader (Mitchell),
 and senior lecturer (Aldous, Bailey, Richards) have helped to retain research active staff, some of
 whom who had been offered positions elsewhere, thereby providing security to leadership roles
 and greater responsibility for career development. Peer-to-peer mentoring is supported as a route
 to growing the leadership from within the UoA and building early career researcher (ECR) profiles,
 widening the full membership of ISPAR.

 Nurture: All members of ISPAR participate in annual and interim professional development
 appraisals (ROSAs), led by Chater. This provides research mentoring for short-, medium- and
 long-term goals. Staff identify their USP and opportunities to enhance their research agenda and
 outputs. Mitchell line manages SSPA staff and evaluates progress against the ROSA objectives
 during one-to-one personal development appraisals (PDAs).

 ISPAR offers seed funding and fees-only PhD studentships, to kick-start new collaborations,
 research projects, and equipment purchases. One example is the PHeW (police health and well-
 being) project, which funded two MSc by Research projects (Yates and Kucuksca), with a multi-
 disciplinary supervisory team (Richards, Mitchell, Aldous, Chater, Wyld) that provided
 physiological and psychological screening to Bedfordshire Police as part of its ‘blue-light’ health
 and well-being initiative, informing future occupational health interventions. This extended to
 ISPAR-funded PhD student (Brierley) delivering an office-based intervention at Kempston Police
 Headquarters, producing significant reductions in sedentary behaviour and improvements in
 physiological and psychological outcomes.

 Aldous, Chater and Ferrandino (nee Croft) continue researching the physiological and
 psychological health of ‘blue-light’ workers (firefighters) with an externally-funded PhD student
 (Beckett). Seed-funding has increased the number of staff who have supervised to completion,
 thereby expanding ISPAR’s supervisory capacity.

 Funding from QR allocation supports attendance at external courses, events, conferences, first-
 aid training, data collection, transcription and printing. All staff and PGRs are encouraged to
 present their research at the ISPAR annual conference, the annual UoB Staff Conference,
 ISPAR’s monthly seminar series and at external community-facing events. Every year, a member
 of staff/PGR represents ISPAR at the Student BASES conference and British Psychological
 Society Division of Health Psychology conference. Staff are encouraged to include these costs in
 external funding applications to ensure sustained support.

 SSPA/ISPAR submits an annual capital bid request to the university for substantial pieces of
 equipment to support research objectives. During this REF cycle, the successful bids have
 averaged at ~£70k per year.

 ISPAR benefits from horizon scanning of funding opportunities from the Innovation and Enterprise
 Team, supporting grant applications, project management, research training and impact
 generation. One-to-one support is available from the Learning Resources and Service Excellence
 (LRSE) team of academic librarians for research (e.g. systematic reviews) and dissemination (e.g.
 open access). These teams contribute to ISPAR away-days to ensure staff are well informed.

 Links with local hospitals have been strengthened, through the research of Bailey, Richards, and
 Charalambous. Professor Robert Thomas, Consultant Oncologist at Bedford Hospital has been
 appointed and, alongside Wyld, Newell, Chater, and Richards, will lead the Bedford arm of an
 international GAP4 trial funded by Movember to explore the benefits of physical activity for those
 with prostate cancer. This expands ISPAR’s work into prehabilitation before surgery and ‘moving
 medicine,’ using physical activity to benefit long-term conditions.

 Postgraduate Research (PGR) student growth: To widen ISPAR’s interdisciplinary research
 and achieve the core strategic aims, an investment of £78k from QR funding was made in 2016
 for six funded (fees-only) PhD studentships. Supervisory teams were asked to be interdisciplinary
 and internationally-relevant with real-world impact. This has successfully built supervisory

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capacity, with an increase in less experienced staff joining supervisory teams. All teams include
 an experienced supervisor with Chater or Mitchell joining teams if needed to meet the required
 level of experience and provide staff mentoring. Where a supervisor takes maternity leave, they
 remain on the supervisory team, providing support to the student via Keeping in Touch (KIT) days
 with an interim supervisor assigned to provide the accessible contact. Thirteen (13) ISPAR/SSPA
 staff (Aldous, Chater, Charalambous, Ferrandino (nee Croft), Dwyer, Fletcher, Zakrzewski-Fruer,
 Hill, Ives, Jones (nee Stannard), Mitchell, Richards and Smith) currently supervise PGR students,
 plus Bailey now acting as external supervisor.

 PGR recruitment: The way ISPAR recruits PGR students has been transformed. Supervisor
 capacity has increased with the redefined structure above and staff advertise proposed projects
 both internally and externally, increasing recruitment. Since the 2013/2014 intake, 98 PGRs were
 registered and/or active within ISPAR. Of these, 34 are currently active (x20 PhD; x14 MSc/MA
 by Research); one PhD is interrupted (maternity leave); four were terminated (e.g. due to ill
 health). There are currently nine (9) doctoral students beyond the internal progression and
 upgrade points (PP1/PP2) who are set to complete in the next REF period.

 PGR completion: Twenty-six (26) doctoral degrees have been awarded since 2013/2014 (similar
 to REF2014 with 25 completions). ISPAR additionally has a strong tradition of MSc/MA by
 Research success, which often translates to peer-reviewed publications, and has seen 37
 MSc/MA by Research awards made since REF2014.

 PGR community: ISPAR has a vibrant PGR community who are introduced at induction to
 ISPAR’s strategic aims and expectations. Research outputs are encouraged as the PGRs rite of
 passage from day one. The induction programme includes a morning of formal activities including
 a welcome from the Institute Director (Chater) and group activities. Presentations are given by
 existing ISPAR members relating to research centres, and existing PGRs welcome new members
 to the community. The faculty marketing assistant explains how to engage with social media and
 mainstream press to ensure positive exposure for research activities. Chater discusses the highs
 and lows of publications, and ways to embrace the skills of a productive researcher (e.g. writing
 ‘power hours’ with no distractions). All PGRs and staff are encouraged to create profiles on
 ResearchGate, Google Scholar and ORCID, and to know their own metrics (e.g. citations when
 published, H-index) and those of researchers they admire. PGRs meet their supervisors over
 refreshments and then all attend an evening social event, with a group photo. This welcome and
 induction is in addition to the formal PGR induction processes provided by the Research Graduate
 School (RGS).

 PGR training: The ISPAR PGR training series has been co-created with PGR students and
 supervisors. Topics include: ‘How to perform/write a systematic review’, ‘Writing for publication
 and impact’, ‘Grant writing and fellowship applications’ and more specific topic areas such as
 ‘Intervention design, delivery and evaluation’; ‘Fidelity of interventions’; ‘Feasibility studies and
 randomised controlled trials’ and practical areas, such as using SPSS, NVivo and Qualtrics.

 PGRs are encouraged to attend postgraduate taught (PGT) classes, and shadow their
 supervisors, on topics such as research methods and behaviour change, both for professional
 development and peer-review teaching experience.

 When developing the ISPAR PGR training seminars, the four domains of the researcher
 development framework managed by Vitae (http://www.vitae.ac.uk/) were considered. ISPAR
 workshops focus on work-related, as well as research-related skills development, such as data
 analysis, preparing a CV, applying for academic posts, conference presentations, and writing for
 publication. Also, students are provided with advice on career development individually by their
 directors of studies and senior research staff.

 Research training is also provided by the RGS alongside English language support if needed. In
 addition to individual supervisory tutorials, and the training provided by the RGS and ISPAR, PGRs
 can access sessions delivered by the university’s Centre for Learning Excellence. If PGR students

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have more specific requirements, such as first aid certification, hepatitis B vaccination, or training
 in specialist software, they are funded by ISPAR. PGRs are also encouraged to attain Higher
 Education Academy associate fellowship, supported with writing retreats, workshops and teaching
 opportunities.

 PGR support: All ISPAR PGR students and staff can access disability and mental health support,
 counselling, financial advice, careers and employability advice. ISPAR PGRs are assigned
 approximately £1,200pa for consumables, smaller pieces of equipment, training sessions, external
 courses, travel to free events/lectures/workshops or for data collection, first aid training,
 transcription and printing.

 Annual visit to King’s College Medical School
 To support the strategic aim to facilitate interdisciplinary research into the underlying mechanisms
 for disease, injury prevention and treatment optimisation, ISPAR offers an annual visit to the
 Gordon Museum and Cadaver Rooms at King’s College Medical School in London. Students and
 staff have enjoyed workshops in the cadaver rooms and Gordon Museum, under guidance from
 a medical doctor, examining healthy and diseased specimens. This is a fascinating opportunity to
 see first-hand the anatomical impact of diseases such as diabetes, cancer, obesity and
 cardiovascular disease, comorbidities associated with physical inactivity.

 PGR autonomy - Junior ISPAR (J-ISPAR): To facilitate the growth of the research environment,
 in 2018 under Chater’s leadership, the ISPAR board developed a Junior Institute for Sport and
 Physical Activity Research (J-ISPAR), to be led by PGR students for PGR students. All PGR
 students were involved in early discussions, covering the need, desire and outline of what this
 might look like, facilitated by Chater, Zakrzewski-Fruer and Mitchell. PGR students agreed on the
 name, agenda and terms of reference of J-ISPAR, and internally peer-nominated a committee of
 at least five other ISPAR PGR students to lead J-ISPAR.

 The ISPAR board agreed to provide J-ISPAR with annual funds to support the research
 environment. Examples on spend include expenses for a group trip to listen to desired speakers,
 and hosting of pizza seminars. The J-ISPAR meets monthly and reports to the ISPAR board on a
 bi-monthly basis. J-ISPAR is now well established, strengthening the PGR community, with social
 activities both with and without their academic mentors. J-ISPAR has an active Twitter account
 (@IsparJunior) which the PGRs use regularly to share their research, advertise recruitment
 opportunities and engage with wider academic debates.

 PGR representation to ISPAR Board
 Two J-ISPAR representatives sit on the ISPAR board, which discusses and supports the progress
 of all PGRs. The student representatives’ provide a PGR-co-created report and are given the floor
 at the start of the ISPAR board as a priority standing agenda item. The ISPAR board minutes all
 points for celebration (progression points, publications, dissemination, successful funding) and
 issues raised by J-ISPAR, alongside the institute response and actions.

 PGR career development
 ISPAR/SSPA have a focus on preparing research students for future careers. A number of our
 MA/MSc by Research students and taught postgraduate students were awarded high achiever
 scholarships by UoB for achieving a first class undergraduate degree, giving them a 50% discount
 on their first year of postgraduate study. Several PGR students are employed to deliver guest
 sessions to undergraduate students in their area of research, providing valuable teaching
 experience.

 As evidence of the success in preparing PGRs for the student-to-staff progression, five former
 UoB doctoral students have graduated from ISPAR (Bailey, Aldous, Ives, Richards, Smith) and
 been employed as full-time members of academic staff within SSPA during this REF period.
 Chater is also a former UoB graduate, who was appointed a lecturer/senior lecturer across
 psychology and SSPA from 2005-2012, prior to her appointment at University College London
 (UCL), and then returned to SSPA in 2016.

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Technical Staff: The technical team supporting ISPAR are fundamental to the research
 environment and, as such, their CPD is a priority. Annually, the technical team travels to other
 university laboratories (Luton campus, St Mary’s and Bucks New University) to exchange
 information, good practice and explore research collaboration. The team attends the Elevate event
 in London, which is the UK’s largest physical activity trade show, where the latest fitness, sports
 science and physical activity products are displayed by over 350 exhibitors. With over 300
 presentations on sports science and physical activity to observe, this ensures up-to-date
 knowledge of developments across the sector.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI): ISPAR aims to ensure that research is accessible to all,
 meeting EDI objectives. Social justice is a particular focus of ISPAR’s Centre for Physical
 Education, Sport and Human Movement. A special interest group around social justice education
 was formed in 2018 led by Hill, as a collaboration between ISPAR and the Institute for Research
 in Education (IRED), combining shared research interests around race and gender equity. This
 aligns with the ISPAR strategy to foster interdisciplinary work and social inclusion; the latter by
 researching and tackling issues faced by students from minority ethnic backgrounds, those who
 are first generation university students, and those who commute to university. During COVID-19,
 ISPAR has promoted the hardship funds and laptops available to PGRs to support their
 progression. For International Women’s Day (08-03-2019), ISPAR used social media messaging
 to share research around women’s sport and physical activity, specifically media representation
 and female participants in physiology research, as a platform to encourage girls’ participation in
 PE and sport, and gender neutral sport. An ISPAR-led Women’s Group was formed in 2019,
 focussing on understanding and disseminating issues that women in sport/physical activity, and/or
 higher education may face. PGR students who have researched this area under the supervision
 of Hill and Chater were showcased at the 2020 ISPAR annual conference.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income: This UoA has generated £319,716 since REF2014, which includes funding shared with
 IHR (£6,558 per institute) for a cross-faculty PhD studentship (supervised by Chater and Pappas
 in IHR) to investigate an integrated physical and psychological health service ‘Total Well-being
 Luton’; and £8,654 allocated to the PHeW research project from Bedfordshire Police. The global
 research environment is competitive, making income generation challenging. Moving forward,
 ISPAR members will have a target income submission of £50,000pa, with collaborative research
 and larger grants encouraged. ISPAR has also received consultancy income, such as £10,500 for
 commissioned inquiry work from a manufacturer of running shoes.

 Digital Infrastructure and Facilities: To facilitate ISPAR’s strategic aims, the digital
 infrastructure surrounding UoA24 has been transformed since REF2014:

    ●   ISPAR website: has been substantially reformed, now highlighting staff and PGR profiles,
        successful income capture, publications, partnerships and ISPAR news. As an externally-
        facing environment, it aims to encourage other partners and prospective PGRs to
        collaborate with and join ISPAR/J-ISPAR: https://www.beds.ac.uk/ispar/
    ●   BREO and Teams: are now used to host all relevant research, dissemination and training
        materials, along with research centre, J-ISPAR and ISPAR board minutes;
    ●   Grant tracker: extending what is provided by UoB’s central bid support team, ISPAR has
        developed an editable tracking document to list grant applications that have been
        successful and unsuccessful for comparison and guidance, and those that people are
        working on to facilitate collaboration;
    ●   Publication tracker: an editable record of published papers enables ISPAR to record
        outputs and generate an annual report for celebration;
    ●   PGR community: PGRs have their own space to connect and share documents, hold
        discussions, both on a Blog via BREO and as a conversation in Teams, with a calendar
        for PGR training and social events.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Physical Infrastructure and Facilities: The estates infrastructure has changed beyond
 recognition with a £110m redevelopment of the University of Bedfordshire campuses.

 Bedford campus
 The physical estates and facilities have been developed to facilitate world leading, impactful
 research. In January 2015, the new Gateway Building (£14m) was opened on the Bedford campus
 boasting flexible learning spaces, such as a Harvard-style lecture theatre, PC and Mac suites,
 independent study rooms, various sized meeting rooms, high-quality teaching spaces with
 standing and treadmill desks, informal learning spaces, lecture theatres with standing desks, a
 coffee shop and a new student services centre. As a result of substantial, annual capital bid
 funding led by Mitchell, the sports science and physical activity laboratories have had significant
 equipment upgrades alongside purchases of cutting-edge equipment and the manufacture of
 bespoke rigs and platforms for innovative research.

 Further development includes:
    ● National standard 300-seat sports arena;
    ● All-weather, multi-use AstroTurf games area;
    ● High-tech fitness centre;
    ● Outdoor basketball/netball/tennis courts;
    ● Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation Clinic (£2.5m);

 This has allowed ISPAR/SSPA to develop the UoB Community Exercise Clinic, led by Wyld,
 attended by those with long-term conditions, facilitated by ISPAR PGRs, and meeting our strategic
 aim to support moving medicine.

 Luton campus
 In 2014, the new Postgraduate and CPD Centre (£17m) opened on the Luton campus with:
     ● 4,254m2 of space over five storeys;
     ● State-of-the-art IT and AV equipment;
     ● Lecture theatres, (including two Harvard-style);
     ● Informal learning spaces;
     ● Quiet study areas;
     ● Student lounge.

 In October 2016, a new library (£30m) opened on the Luton Campus with 24/7 access to:
     ● 7400m2 of space over seven storeys;
     ● 154,000 books on six km of shelves;
     ● 916 study spaces;
     ● Laptops available for loan;
     ● 530 new PCs;
     ● Study hub for guidance on academic skills.

 In June 2019, the new £40m Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths (STEM) building opened
 on the Luton campus offering:
     ● 6000m2 of new teaching space for STEM subjects;
     ● Large, flexible, computer laboratories and workshops;
     ● State-of-the-art facilities including specialist containment labs, simulation spaces,
        analytical labs and sterile facilities;
     ● Science and Engineering Outreach Centre to promote the value of science and
        engineering to local schools and the wider community.

 These facilities support staff and student health and well-being, providing excellent facilities for
 sport, physical activity and learning, alongside state-of-the-art facilities for research and public
 engagement.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Collaborations: ISPAR members collaborate nationally and internationally, to include
 Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Columbia, Canada, America, Nepal, Kenya, South Africa and
 China. ISPAR’s research has helped inform several local (e.g. Bedfordshire/Hertfordshire Local
 Authorities, County Sport Partnerships), national (e.g. Public Health England; British
 Psychological Society, Sport England) and international (e.g. Moldova, Qatar) strategy
 documents.

 Collaborative research and income generation: Bailey has formed collaborations with world-
 leading researchers, Professor David Dunstan (Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, Australia),
 Professor Stuart Biddle (University of Southern Queensland, Australia), and Dr Charlotte
 Edwardson (University of Leicester) to further develop ISPAR’s sedentary behaviour research and
 successfully bid for funding. Bailey’s group also collaborate with Professor of Applied Disability
 Sport, Vicky Tolfrey-Goosey, at Loughborough University securing funding from Heart Research
 UK to conduct the first study worldwide investigating the effects of interrupting sedentary
 behaviour on cardiometabolic health in people with a spinal cord injury. Zakrzewski-Fruer is part
 of the International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI) Europe Expert Group on the ‘Health relevance of
 lowering post-prandial glycaemia in children and adolescents through diet’, leading research in
 this area. Chater has successfully been awarded research income of ~£5million in the current
 REF period as principal investigator (PI), local-PI (in multi-site trials) or co-applicant. Her
 collaborator institutions include University College London, King's College London, Loughborough
 University, University of Hertfordshire, University of Buckingham, University of Manchester, Ulster
 University, Queen’s University, Cardiff University, the University of East Anglia, University of North
 Carolina and Monash University. She is an Associate of the world leading UCL Centre for
 Behaviour Change (CBC), led by Professor Susan Michie, working closely with the CBC, to share
 research and consultancy opportunities and enhance the impact the collaborative teams can have,
 specifically within public health.

 Networks & Partnerships - Building translational scientist-practitioner-policy communities:
 A particular strength within ISPAR are the links to national networks to support others to reach
 their full research potential. Chater has been instrumental in the development of many of these.

 The Health Psychology and Public Health Network: In 2013 Chater and a small team, many
 of whom were her former students, were awarded £10,000 seed-funding from the Director of
 Public Health in Hertfordshire to co-develop the Health Psychology in Public Health Network
 (HPPHN). When developing this network, the core mission was to bring together academics,
 practitioners, commissioners, elected members and public health consultants for the common goal
 of improving population health, aligned to ISPAR’s strategic aims. Chater became Chair of the
 HPPHN in February 2017. In September 2017, ISPAR hosted a HPPHN event that saw
 academics, public health consultants and practitioners from across the UK join to discuss issues
 related to education, training and behaviour change approaches to increase physical activity levels
 and enhance population health. Chater spoke at a PHE event in April 2017 on ways to use
 behavioural science in public health and welcomed Duncan Selbie, Chief Executive of PHE as the
 HPPHN conference keynote in February 2018.

 The Behavioural Science and Public Health Network: With significant investment from PHE
 (£20,000), as Chair of the HPPHN, Chater oversaw its re-development to become the Behavioural
 Science and Public Health Network (https://www.bsphn.org.uk/) in June 2018, to widen the
 Network’s reach and impact. The BSPHN became the ‘community of practice’ for PHE’s
 Behavioural and Social Science Strategy (Sept 2018): ‘Improving people’s health: Applying
 behavioural and social sciences to improve population health and well-being in England’
 (https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/f
 ile/744672/Improving_Peoples_Health_Behavioural_Strategy.pdf). Chater was a co-author of this
 strategy, developing and influencing policy nationally.

 Under her leadership, the BSPHN has received recognition as a Learned Society Member of the
 Academy of Social Sciences and has hosted a series of successful events with eminent speakers,
 including those leading the health and well-being agenda in Sport England, Active Partnerships

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and PHE. The network has successfully created BSPHN regional hubs that offer CPD for public
 health professionals, receiving over £65,000 from Health Education England to support this.
 Chater’s work in this area is disseminated to ISPAR members and PGRs, whom are encouraged
 to attend events to facilitate networking opportunities.

 Academic citizenship influencing policy: In July 2019, Chater was elected as Chair of the
 British Psychological Society’s (BPS) Division of Health Psychology, enabling her to continue to
 build networks to support health, well-being and behaviour change. ISPAR receives £10,000
 financial recompense for time allocated to this role and the prestige that comes with the leadership
 of a national professional body. In this role, Chater sits on the BPS Senate, and has pledged to
 promote health psychology in the prevention agenda. Since COVID-19, she has led a BPS
 COVID-19 Behavioural Science and Disease Prevention taskforce, developing a series of
 guidance documents for government and local authorities: (https://www.bps.org.uk/member-
 microsites/division-health-psychology/resources), some of which have been used as evidence to
 SPI-B and SAGE. The public health teams of the UK four nations have used this guidance, and
 Chater has presented to the four nations and cabinet members by invitation at a PHE ‘Lunch and
 Learn’ session. The guidance documents include theoretically-driven recommendations, drawn
 from Chater’s behaviour change research, for:
   • physical activity https://www.bps.org.uk/sites/www.bps.org.uk/files/Policy/Policy%20-
     %20Files/Covid-
     19%20Public%20Health%20Road%20Map%20%E2%80%93%20Physical%20activity.pdf
     and
   • sedentary behaviour https://www.bps.org.uk/sites/www.bps.org.uk/files/Policy/Policy%20-
     %20Files/Covid-19%20Public%20Health%20Road%20Map%20-
     %20Sedentary%20behaviour.pdf

 Other preventative behaviours, such as self-isolation and hand hygiene, are also included, some
 of which have been co-developed with colleagues from the World Health Organisation. Chater
 has represented Health Psychology internationally, as the UK National Delegate to the European
 Health Psychology Society (EHPS; 2012-2018).

 Mitchell is Chair of the Division of Biomechanics and Motor Behaviour at the British Association
 of Sport & Exercise Science (BASES), BASES board member, Chair of BASES Learning and
 Development Committee at BASES and is a member of the International Ankle Consortium.

 Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences: Hill is associate editor
 of Frontiers in Sport and Active Living: Physical Education and Pedagogy. Charalambous is a
 reviewer of six peer-reviewed journals including the Journal of Sports Sciences and Sports
 Biomechanics. Fletcher is a reviewer for ten peer-reviewed publications including Journal of
 Strength and Conditioning Research and British Journal of Sports Medicine. Newell is a reviewer
 for Frontiers in Sports and Active Living, Nutrients and the International Journal of Sports Nutrition
 and Exercise Metabolism. Zakrzewski-Fruer peer-reviews for several journals, including Applied
 Physiology, Appetite and PLOS One. Chater is an editor and co-founder of Health Psychology
 and Behavioural Medicine, and the Behavioural Science and Public Health publication and
 reviewer for numerous journals such as Translational Behavioural Medicine. She is an invited
 stakeholder on the Sport England advisory panel for the new physical activity campaign, ‘We are
 Undefeatable’ to support those living with long-term conditions; a Versus Arthritis physical activity
 adviser, and sits on Luton and Bedford Borough Council’s healthy weight strategy groups. She
 has furthermore been an invited advisor and co-author to the NIHR-themed review of physical
 activity interventions, launched in July 2019, and has supervised an intern within PHE’s Physical
 Activity team. She has provided evidence based on her research to several APPG inquiries on
 the future of Obesity Services, and led the media interactions (with over 300 global outputs) of a
 co-authored obesity report published by the British Psychological Society.

 Wider Activities and Contributions to the Research Base, Economy & Society: ISPAR staff
 have been invited to give keynote addresses including: The House of Commons APPG on
 ‘Psychological Understanding of Obesity’; the House of Commons Roundtable on Obesity; the

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 House of Lords Roundtable on Holiday Hunger and Street Games; the Cheltenham Science
 Festival main auditorium session on ‘Obesity: Who is to Blame’; GlaxoSmithKline Human
 Performance Laboratory Webcast on ‘The developing athlete: considerations to support energy
 for growth, maturation & physical performance’; numerous events for the British Psychological
 Society; Behavioural Science and Public Health Network; Public Health England; Team Beds and
 Luton County Sport (now Active) Partnership; Bedfordshire’s Physical Education Conference, and
 the London Marathon Medicine Conference, to name a few. ISPAR and SSPA contributed data to
 the Physiological Society and Guild HE report, ‘Sport & Exercise Science Education: Impact on
 the UK Economy’, which was recently launched at the Houses of Parliament.

 Hill and her team have led work on social inclusion and community engagement with research on
 social justice to ensure that pre-service or in-service teachers are well prepared to engage all
 young people in physical education and physical activity, with the aim of reducing marginalisation
 and stereotypes. This compliments research by Bowler and Sammon on health-based rather than
 sport-based PE, shared through networks for practitioners, helping over 1000 PE teachers
 implement this health-based pedagogical model.

 External PGR Supervision: ISPAR staff have supervised additional external PGR students:
    ● Chater (University of Hertfordshire, 2xPhD; University College London, 2xPhD;
       Loughborough University 1xPhD; three of whom have completed);
    ● Mitchell (University of Hertfordshire, 1xPhD);
    ● Zakrzewski-Fruer (Loughborough University, 1xPhD)
    ● Smith (University of Derby, 1xPhD);

 These support collaborative working and contribute to ISPAR’s strategic aims by extending inter-
 disciplinary research, reach and impact. Chater is also supervising four health psychology ‘Stage
 2’ trainees (at University of Bedfordshire, University of Buckingham and King's College London)
 registered through the British Psychological Society’s accredited supervisor route, enabling Health
 and Care Professions Council (HCPC) registration as Practitioner Psychologists, with income
 and/or outputs related to this attributed to ISPAR. This further supports our impact nationally and
 continues to grow collaborations with our research partners. With support from PHE, cabinet
 members and the Director of Public Health in Buckinghamshire, one of these trainees is fully
 funded (£122,000) by Buckinghamshire Council. Chater is developing a national blueprint for this
 training model, with PHE and Health Education England’s support. Several staff additionally
 supervise PGRs across the university, with Hill supervising a PGR in the Institute of Applied Social
 Research (IASR), and Chater and Bailey supervising PGRs in the Institute of Health Research
 (IHR), facilitating cross-faculty collaboration.

 Examination of PGRs by ISPAR/SSPA Staff: Staff are actively involved in serving as external
 examiners. In the current REF period:

 Chater has externally examined nine PGRs:
    ● Six PhD (Leeds Beckett University, 2020 - Dietary behaviours of elite athletes; University
        of Leeds, 2019 - Stress on eating behaviour; Ulster University, Northern Ireland, 2017 –
        Children with complex health needs; University of Sheffield, 2016 – Physical activity and
        university transition; Newcastle University, 2015 – Adolescent eating behaviour; Ulster
        University, Northern Ireland, 2015 – Mental health);
    ● One DHealthPsych (Staffordshire University, 2019 – Health Psychology portfolio);
    ● Two PhD by publication (Coventry University, 2017, Behaviour change and impact;
        University of Worcester, 2017, Healthy eating in children).

 Charalambous has externally examined three PGRs:
    • PhD (University of Lincoln & Sheffield Hallam University - biomechanics)
    • MSc by Research (Canterbury Christchurch - biomechanics)
    • Plus three MSc by Research as internal examiner

 Mitchell has externally examined three PGRs:

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    ●   MSc by Research (Swansea University, 2018 - Golf biomechanics).
    ●   MSc by Research (University College Dublin, 2019 – Syndesmosis sprains in rugby)
    ●   PhD (Loughborough University, 2019 – Ankle sprain biomechanics)

 Newell has externally examined one PGR:
    ● MSc by Research student (University of Birmingham, 2019 – Carbohydrate metabolism
        and performance)

 Changing the Game by Changing the Players (ERASMUS+): With European Union Erasmus+
 funding, ISPAR staff have explored how sport could be used as a tool to empower young people,
 women and girls. This involved engagement with six organisations across four European
 countries, the findings of which were presented at a conference at the University of Bedfordshire
 in December 2017. This interactive event allowed students, staff and local employers to share
 findings, promote best practice and foster innovation around sport and social outcome. The project
 enhanced ISPAR’s research environment, developing knowledge of sport and social outcome in
 innovative ways; broadening horizons of sport from a European perspective; and providing
 networking opportunities. Following the events’ success, further Erasmus+ funding has been
 secured (by Wilson), who will be supported for the next research assessment.




                                                                                           Page 15
