Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University
 Unit of Assessment: A3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 Edge Hill University (EHU) is one of the largest providers of health and social-care education in
 north west England, with a wide range of experts from nursing, allied health professions and
 medicine. Our submission is composed of staff from our Faculty of Health, Social Care and
 Medicine (FHSCM): School of Nursing, Midwifery & Allied Health, School of Applied Health,
 Social Care & Social Work and the EHU Medical School (established 2019). FHSCM makes a
 major contribution to health and social care locally, nationally and internationally by providing
 high-quality, innovative multi-professional education integrated with collaborative, responsive,
 impactful research. Building on our work submitted in REF2014, and underpinned by an
 extensive programme of research support (see section 2) and strategic investment (see sections
 2 and 3), we have created a vibrant research culture. Through transformative research
 leadership we offer a supportive environment for research development, collaboration and
 achievement, closely aligned to clinical practice. Along with a 164% increase in the number of
 researchers submitted, we significantly enhanced the quantity (over 860 peer-reviewed outputs
 in the period) and quality of research outputs including publications in the Lancet, Circulation,
 Diabetologia, Journal of Advanced Nursing, Palliative Medicine, and 17 in Cochrane Database of
 Systematic Reviews.


 Our research and how it is structured
 Our research focuses on improving health services and health outcomes locally, nationally and
 internationally by collaborating with patients, carers, families, professionals, services and
 communities. We have organised our work into three research clusters which bring together
 expertise from across the faculty and are utilised to facilitate research, support the cascade of
 knowledge, skills, networks and the development of staff.
 The REF2014 submission included two research clusters: Supporting Care and Improving
 Professional Practice. During the current REF cycle the breadth and depth of our research has
 evolved significantly leading to our current three cross-Faculty and multi-disciplinary research
 clusters, reflecting staff recruitment and development, and our partners’ and funders’ priorities
 and challenges.
 Children, Young People and Families (CYPF)
 Established during current REF period, CYPF focuses on understanding and meeting the needs
 of children and young people; particularly those living with long-term or life-limiting conditions
 (Bray, Carter, Flynn, Knighting) and learning disabilities (Kiernan). There is also an emerging
 body of research on family estrangement (Blake) and maternal health (Abayomi, Briscoe).
 Projects reflect significant collaboration with Alder Hey Children’s NHS Foundation Trust
 (NHSFT) where Carter and Bray lead the Children’s Nursing Research Unit (section 4), which
 has received significant funding, not least, from NIHR: for example, the multi-centre Programme
 Grant (£2.2M) CASTLE study (Changing Agendas for Sleep, Learning and Epilepsy); an RfPB
 study (£220K) related to paediatric Crohn's disease; the BeArH project (Before Arrival at
 Hospital) and the £1.2m NIHR i4i DETECT (Dynamic Electronic Tracking and Escalation to
 reduce Critical Care Transfers) study.
 Prevention and Management of Conditions in Adults (PMCA)
 Identified in REF2014 as the supporting-care research cluster, this cluster has broadened its
 focus in response to our expanding research expertise and national policy emphasis on the
 prevention and management of chronic conditions. This group has four sub-groups:
 Supportive and end-of-life care (Jack, Knighting, O’Brien, Peacock, Spencer, Stanley)
 includes work with Queenscourt Hospice, Palliative Care Institute Liverpool and the Institute for
 Hospice and Palliative Care in Africa.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The recently established respiratory research cluster (Kelly, Leadbetter, Lynes, Relph,
 Spencer) led on an evidence gap-analysis of bronchiectasis research through a series of seven
 Cochrane reviews, managed by Spencer, with international teams, that have informed national
 and international guidelines.
 Population health cluster (Abayomi, Blennerhassett, Bradbury, Dey, Owen, Relph, Spencer,
 Irving) includes research into musculoskeletal health led by Dey with Relph, with international
 collaborators, which led to the development and validation of an app funded by Arthritis
 Research UK/Versus Arthritis, as well as behavioural nutrition and cardiometabolic health which
 has included national and international guidelines.
 The Arts and Wellbeing sub-group (Ashton, Gibson, Karkou, Richards) has already
 established strong international links with collaborators from Italy, Bulgaria, Lithuania and the
 Netherlands. Work by Karkou and Richards has been included in the recent WHO scoping
 review on the contribution of the arts to health and wellbeing with further WHO commissions
 (section 4), supporting our growing reputation in this area.
 Improving Professional Practice (IPP)
 Established during the REF2014 period, IPP focuses on optimisation of individual potential and
 the transfer of learning into practice (Brown, Garner, Jones, Kaehne, Krishnamoorthy,
 Leadbetter, Pearson, Sandars, Watmough) and informs service delivery (Brown, Dey,
 Kaehne, Kelly, O’Brien, Sandars, Spencer, Watmough. This group has well-established,
 close links with Health Education England North West (HEENW), which has funded projects
 totalling £250K. Research has ed training needs and produced recommendations for change,
 including influencing NICE guidelines. It has also informed service delivery including the Patient
 Concerns Inventory (PCI) (case study) and Irving’s work on international variation of
 consultation length in primary care (one of the most cited papers in BMJ Open) which was
 reported in over 100 news outlets globally and featured in the Lancet Global Health Commission
 on High Quality Health Systems presented at UNICEF (2018 UN General Assembly). It has
 been cited in two policy documents (WHO and IPO),
 https://www.altmetric.com/details/28647360/, resulting in international adoption for longer
 consultations in primary care (Argentina, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Nepal). Our work includes
 laboratory-based research focusing on development and delivery of new therapeutics (Austin,
 Welsby, G., Welsby, P.).


 Research objectives 2014-2020
 We set out three strategic aims in our REF2014 submission:
 SA1: To build our research capacity and capability through effective recruitment and research
 support within a culture of research inquiry and, where appropriate, alignment with practice
 We have expanded our research capacity during this REF cycle through significant investment in
 recruiting research-active staff (54% of our staff with significant responsibility for research (SRR)
 have been recruited during the current REF period) and staff development (16% of our staff with
 SRR were supported to attain PhDs, thereby facilitating their move from practice to research).
 We have established a suite of research-support mechanisms (section 2) and have used EHU’s
 internal research-funding to strategically support ECRs to attain external funding (section 3).
 This has increased the number and percentage of staff being returned to REF2021 relative to
 REF2014 (37:14 headcount; 22%:9%).
 We have invested in researcher leadership to grow our research capabilities and drive our
 research culture (section 2). The focus of our REF2014 submission had been the Evidence-
 based Practice Centre which was a small and self-contained department. Research-active staff
 are now firmly integrated into all schools, engaging in both teaching and research. This has
 created a rich and lively research culture for people at all career stages, grounded in work
 valued and informed by our external partners and communities.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SA2: To increase the size and secure the sustainability of our postgraduate research (PGR)
 community
 We have made effective use of the University’s Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) scheme,
 and increasingly succeeded in attracting external funding for doctoral students, including self-
 funded students and employer-funded part-time studentships, firmly embedding doctoral
 research in professional practice. Indeed, our growing research reputation has attracted high-
 calibre research students leading to a four-fold increase in PhD completions during the REF2021
 period (section 2).
 SA3: To develop and support collaboration with new and existing partners to ensure our
 research is informed by, and of benefit to, health and social-care providers and their
 communities
 To maintain external relevance, currency and impact, we have ensured our research is informed
 by professional practice. The Health Research Institute (HRI, established 2014, originally as the
 ‘Postgraduate Medical Institute’) brings together academics from across the University as well as
 external colleagues, to support cross-sectoral multi-disciplinary research collaboration,
 prioritisation and dissemination. The HRI Steering Group’s external membership and our
 recently-established thematic research centres – the Respiratory Research Centre and the
 Centre for Arts and Wellbeing – promote external collaboration. We work closely with regional
 health and social care providers and commissioners. This includes board membership and
 honorary appointments. We further enrich user-driven research prioritisation through our Patient
 and Public Engagement and Involvement (PPIE) work, which includes our Service User and
 Carer Group. We have extended our international collaborations (more than 50 publications
 have international collaborators), as well as membership of research networks and academic
 health-science networks including NIHR Applied Research Collaboration North West Coast
 (ARC NWC), Liverpool Health Partners (LHP) and the Innovation Agency North West Coast.
 The growth and consolidation of partnerships has also been central to the growth in income and
 awards and continues to be a vital part of our income generation strategy.


 How we have sought to facilitate impact
 The HRI (director Spencer) is our principal vehicle for purposeful interaction with external
 partners (section 4). Its mission is to facilitate and enable collaborative research across a range
 of academic perspectives with external stakeholders in the NHS, social care, charities and other
 health-related organisations. To that end, it organises public-facing events and supports the
 development of partnerships and collaborations.
 Our research ethos places strong emphasis on impact and the co-creation of outputs. Such
 reciprocal modes of collaboration have been crucial for the co-production of knowledge, and for
 assisting the development of academic engagement with non-academic research users.
 Moreover, staff leading the impact agenda have previous experience of facilitating impact with
 external partners and this has driven a broader impact-culture which has widened and
 developed research-impact capability across our research discipline areas. For example, we
 established a new impact support research assistant (RA) role to assist in the development and
 promotion of impact training; we also worked with the University’s Research Impact Manager to
 support staff when planning new projects. We ensure that staff with SRR and those with credible
 research aspirations participate in impact training and discussion so that the nuances of impact
 are well understood before individuals or groups embark on research projects. This training has
 included a workshop run by Prof. Mark Reed (co-founder of Fast Track Impact). We encourage
 individuals to apply for institutional IKEF funding which is reserved specifically for the support of
 impact arising from published research.
 Our three REF2021 impact case studies are indicative of partnerships and our work to embed
 impact. They come from research led by professors, most of whom were part of the UOA in
 2014, arising from established bodies of research and collaborative activities conducted with
 longstanding, and more recent, external partners such as Liverpool Universities NHS Foundation


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust (NHSFT), Alder Hey Children’s NHSFT, Motor Neurone Disease Association (MNDA);
 Macmillan Cancer Support, Crohn’s and Colitis UK and Wellchild.
 We have engaged patients, service-users and professionals throughout our research process, in
 order to improve practice and to influence policy. The Carers Alert Thermometer (CAT), a long-
 standing programme of research, led by Jack, has engaged with carers and professionals to
 identify support needs for those proving end-of-life care, as well as care for those with
 progressive and chronic conditions. The CAT has developed evidence-based, free-to-use
 resources which have been recommended by the National Gold Standards Framework end-of-
 life training programme (2016).
 In a comparable vein, the Patient Concerns Inventory (PCI), led by Rogers and O’Brien, was
 developed with cancer patients, to focus and support patient-centred care during outpatient
 consultations. In this REF period, items from the PCI-head and neck have been incorporated
 into the Macmillan Cancer Support Holistic Health Needs Assessment, while the PCI has been
 developed further to other conditions.
 Working closely with children, families and professionals at Alder Hey Children’s hospital, Bray
 and Carter have developed resources and recommendations which have been adopted in Royal
 College of Nursing (RCN) clinical guidance (2016) on holding and restraining of children and
 young people. Work alongside charities and health providers has also led to the development of
 tools and resources that improve children’s healthcare experiences in hospital and in coping with
 chronic conditions.


 Our approach to supporting interdisciplinary research
 While staff are aligned to one primary research group, the multi- and inter-disciplinary nature of
 our research means staff frequently work across multiple groups and with colleagues both
 inside, and outside the unit (e.g., business and management, computer science, psychology,
 sport, performing arts, education). This flexible approach promotes novel ways of thinking and
 enables us to build a stable and sustainable base of research activity which is responsive to the
 changing needs of research users, specifically health and social care commissioners, NHS
 trusts, major charities, regulatory bodies, practitioners, service-users, patients and their families.
 Thus, our research addresses the social, cultural, and economic challenges experienced locally,
 nationally and globally. Developing multi- and inter-disciplinary research teams in established
 and growing research areas also informs continuation and succession planning for future staff
 recruitment, and strategic decision-making on research-development activities for existing staff.
 This facilitates novel and evidence-based research underpinned by established methodologies.
 Our interdisciplinarity is very much supported and promoted by the work of the HRI and by staff
 members engaging in the University’s other research institutes. These are structured
 deliberately to encourage cross-disciplinary working; the HRI’s deputy director is from the
 Department of Psychology and key projects are based in the Department of Sport and Physical
 Activity. There are also interdisciplinary projects within the Faculty reflecting the broad range of
 interests: these include Dey’s work with Sport and Physical Activity and work with Computer
 Science linked to the PCI.


 Commitment to Open Research
 We are committed to open research outlined in EHU’s Policy on Open Access (OA) and its
 statement on support for open research (OR). All our research outputs are deposited in the
 University research repository (Pure) and understanding OA is integral to the research induction
 process. We have developed and promoted a culture of OR by hosting presentations and
 workshops on OA and data sharing, by disseminating University-wide information and
 opportunities and by embedding discussion within our research clusters and the Faculty’s
 Research Committee. We have promoted the use of ‘read-and-publish’ agreements the
 University has signed with publishers (including Springer, PLOS, SAGE and Wiley). We support
 internal funding applications for gold OA, use research rewards (University funding to reward

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grant capture) to support publication costs and encourage inclusion of these costs on external
 funding applications. A recent annual audit showed that, on average, an article (whether
 research or practice oriented) from the Faculty becomes freely available after five months,
 demonstrating the success of our approach. We have started to disseminate freely-available
 resources through Figshare; these include animations, information leaflets and non-research
 ebooks. Indeed, we use a wide range of approaches, such as EHU’s partnership with Tate
 Liverpool, to ensure external (lay-)audiences can access and engage with our research: e.g., we
 held a creative event (2019) for over 80 health professionals, children and parents to share
 research data from two funded studies regarding the information needs of children coming to
 hospital. Further promotion of research findings is supported via publication platforms: e.g., The
 Conversation and Kudos. We are actively involved in helping establish an EHU instance of the
 UK Reproducibility Network.
 Post-REF2021, we will enhance our commitment to open and transparent research practices by
 creating a faculty lead for OR to promote knowledge, understanding and use of OA resources,
 data sharing and fee-free research repositories in general science (such as Figshare and Open
 Science Framework) and specific health-science communities (such as clinicaltrials.gov), as well
 as reproducibility.


 Research Integrity
 Integrity and ethical practice are at the heart of what we do. We are committed to respecting the
 dignity of all those involved in our research processes and principal investigators are responsible
 for ensuring the integrity of their projects. This culture is deeply embedded within the Faculty and
 research ethics and governance training is core to the induction process for new staff and in
 PGR training. Staff members attend external training and development events including those
 provided by UKRIO, NIHR and the Health Research Authority (HRA). The University’s new
 online ethics monitor enhances annual review of projects in the Faculty and the University’s
 central research ethics committee does regular random checks on projects which helps to
 reinforce the ethos that ethical approval is not a one-time event, but an on-going process.
 We work in tandem with the University’s research-governance infrastructure which promotes and
 assures research integrity. All PGR students and staff adhere to the EHU Research Ethics
 Policy. Thorough ethical scrutiny and monitoring of all projects at Faculty level not only prepares
 EHU researchers for external research governance bodies, such as the HRA, but provides
 accurate research-management information. Research governance processes in the University
 and Faculty are well-established and Faculty staff play key leadership roles at University level:
 Brown chairs the University’s Research Ethics Sub-committee; O’Brien chairs the Health-
 related Research Ethics Committee and Austin chairs the University’s Human Tissue
 Management Sub-committee. The University recently revised its ethical approval processes and
 Brown and O’Brien were integral to that review process, providing sector expertise to ensure
 that the new structures were robust.


 Future strategic objectives
 Our vision is to build on our national and international reputation of high-impact, responsive
 research and innovation that addresses key health and social-care challenges, locally, nationally
 and internationally. The key objectives of our strategy are:
    •   To expand the capacity and reach of our research clusters whilst nurturing new and
        emerging research. Experienced research leads will drive this expansion. We will work
        closely with the HRI, and other University institutes, to support cross-faculty,
        interdisciplinary research. We will develop our newly-established research centres in Arts
        and Wellbeing and Respiratory Research to ensure critical mass of outputs, income and
        personnel, to sustain vitality and growth.
    •   To increase meaningful collaboration with external partners and networks locally,
        nationally and internationally by developing our relationships with providers and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        commissioners of health and social care via collaborative working, joint appointments
        and by maximising opportunities afforded to us via organisations and networks including
        LHP, ARC NWC, The Innovation Agency and HEE. These collaborations are integral to
        our impact strategy to support dissemination, embedding and implementation of
        research.
    •   To support impact, we will ensure all research projects have a clearly embedded plan to
        deliver impact and enhance the role of PPIE and co-design in developing, delivering and
        disseminating research.
    •   To build further the vitality and sustainability of our postgraduate and post-doctoral
        community, increasingly based on external funding.


 2. People
 Excellent research-active staff with strong collaborative links to practice are key to the realisation
 of our research goals. Our staffing strategy since 2014 has focused on capacity building,
 informed by a commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion. A key element of our approach is
 to ensure a sustainable staffing structure; this is evidenced by the distribution of staff returned
 here: 11% lecturer, 54% senior lecturer, 8% reader, 27% professor (attained through recruitment
 or promotion).


 Recruitment strategy and research leadership
 The University has invested significantly in research leadership, enabling us to appoint a reader
 (Abayomi) and five professors (Austin, Carter, Dey, Sandars, Spencer). A further professor
 (Karkou) transferred in from another department during the REF period. Austin was appointed
 to the new post of Associate Dean for Research and Innovation, with overall responsibility for
 Faculty research, and Spencer became Director of the HRI, leading development of external
 and internal interdisciplinary collaboration. In addition to Jack as personal chair, Bray, Brown,
 O’Brien have been promoted to personal chairs in the REF period and Kelly and Kaehne to
 readerships. Together these colleagues provide research-leadership across the UOA, working
 with line-managers to operationalise research, engagement, support and interdisciplinarity.
 We have also recruited research-active staff at different career stages (Ashton, Blake,
 Blennerhassett, Bradbury, Garner, Irving, Jones, Krishnamoorthy, Owen, Peacock,
 Pearson, Relph, Richards, Stanley, Watmough, Welsby, G. and Welsby, P.). This list
 includes people who have previously held personal fellowships – for example, Krishnamoorthy
 and Irving held personal NIHR Doctoral Fellowships - Irving subsequently held an NIHR Clinical
 Lectureship.
 As part of our research leadership strategy, we support non-professorial staff to become
 members of Faculty and University research committees; University Research Committee
 (Kelly), Graduate School Board of Studies (Blake), Faculty Research Committee (Peacock),
 University Human Tissue Sub-Committee (Bradbury), providing valuable experience of
 research strategy, governance and leadership. Developing research leaders of the future is a
 key part of our strategy and for our succession planning, evidenced by our internal promotions
 since 2014 and provision of, and engagement with, internal and external (Advance HE)
 leadership programmes.
 For the next REF cycle, a major strategic focus will continue to be appointments at professorial
 level to ensure sustainability of research leadership. We will also ensure our recruitment attracts
 researchers at all levels, including ECRs, to complement or enhance our research clusters. We
 will establish joint clinical appointments, to further embed research in practice and maintain clear
 pathways to impact. We will also seek to ensure that our recruitment processes engage as
 diverse a pool as possible, particularly under-represented groups.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development
 Our approach to staff development is guided by the principles of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. We aim to provide a supportive environment that
 promotes wellbeing through appropriate workload allocation, good research planning, and
 training and development opportunities to ensure that everyone is able to reach their potential.
 Our collegial team-based approach provides excellent mentor and peer support for staff at all
 career stages. Our staff-development programme has supported colleagues at various stages of
 their research journey by maximising benefit from, and the experience and skills of, our
 research-active staff.
 All new staff in the unit undergo an extensive induction programme. This includes individual
 meetings with research leaders, and staff are assigned an experienced mentor, to provide
 advice and guidance on all aspects of their academic role and help them to navigate University
 and Faculty practices, including adherence to ethical practices and open access policies, as well
 as research opportunities, including internal and external funding, and research support
 available.
 The Faculty uses its established work-allocation process as a strategic tool to support staff to
 realise their ambitions, and it can also be used to facilitate flexible working to support those with
 particular needs. Such workload planning is undertaken on an individual basis where research
 objectives, plans, training and development needs are identified are agreed via the PDR
 process. The University’s Researcher Development Programme provides a range of training
 opportunities including face-to-face workshops and online modules. Open to all staff, including
 associate tutors, RAs and PGRs, sessions are customised to the needs of specific audiences,
 including senior researchers (e.g. Research Governance, Developments in the Research
 Funding Landscape), mid-career and ECRs (e.g. Boost your Research Profile, What Makes a
 Good Grant Proposal).
 PDR is also the point at which potential applications for University research funds are discussed
 and encouraged, including conference attendance. The Faculty provides funding for external
 research training, travel and accommodation for meetings to develop external collaborations,
 and, where appropriate, short-term associate tutor support for replacement teaching. This
 complements support from central funds which have been key to supporting the development of
 research in the Unit: in total, Faculty staff have been allocated over £400k from central funds to
 support research. These funds can support buy-out of teaching to provide concentrated periods
 of time for research projects or may cover the costs of RAs to support project development and
 delivery. Generous University support is available for conference attendance, giving all staff
 opportunities to present their research, elicit feedback and develop research networks.
 All staff included in this submission are on continuing contracts, but we are alert to the needs of
 fixed-term colleagues (see below). Fractional staff have full access to the resources described
 above (we appreciate that it is not always possible to make such resources available on a pro-
 rata basis and we judge applications for conference funding, for example, on merit). We also
 ensure that fractional staff are able to engage fully in Faculty life by rotating or recording
 scheduled research activities, including training and development events and research
 meetings, to facilitate attendance. Fractional staff have the same opportunity to take on
 leadership roles as other staff (e.g., our chair of ethics has a fractional contract) and are slightly
 more likely to be identified as Category A submitted (19% submitted against 17% eligible).
 Our growing research income underpins an expanding number of RAs and fellows (RF) on fixed-
 term contracts. In keeping with our commitment to the Concordat, RAs/RFs are fully integrated
 into the Faculty and have access to all our research and career-development opportunities
 including those related to PhD study, fellowship applications and postdoctoral research. They
 are supported by a dedicated RA Tutor (Carter). We are currently supporting pre-doctoral RAs
 to study for part-time PhDs, whilst others have progressed onto full-time PhD studentships at
 EHU and other HEIs. Post-doctoral RAs are supported, if appropriate, to engage with broad
 subject and methodological training, obtain teaching experience and to study for the PGCert in
 Teaching in HE (PCGTHE) to support their employability – our RAs have progressed to
 postdoctoral positions (including one at Oxford) and lectureships.

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Supporting ECRs
 Supporting academic staff to progress in research is key to our sustainability and development.
 Due to the professional nature of our teaching programmes, many staff join us directly from
 practice; we are committed to supporting their transition to research independence for those who
 wish become research active. Since 2014, we have supported five staff members to become
 independent researchers (Briscoe, Flynn, Kelly, Kiernan, Leadbetter), with all obtaining PhDs
 during the REF period, including one who was supported with time and funding to complete a
 PhD by publication. Currently we are supporting (funding and time) 23 staff members to
 undertake doctoral study with a further 16 making the transition to research independence as
 recent post-docs.
 From the outset, career planning is encouraged and supported via the PDR process and
 mentoring. ECRs and all new staff undertake a comprehensive institutional induction
 programme, which is complemented by Faculty induction. If not already in possession of a
 teaching qualification, ECRs are expected to undertake the PGCTHE within two years of
 appointment. Through probation/PDR, ECRs are encouraged to optimise the University’s ECR
 support, including via the priority funding streams to support early scoping, project development
 and evidence-harvesting work. For example, a one-year internally-funded project led to six
 published Cochrane reviews. Authors included staff at relatively early stages of their research
 career, including Relph, who went on to lead a Cochrane review.
 We have established a research mentorship programme that provides 1-to-1 mentoring with a
 named professor for postdoctoral staff/ECRs and supports research-career planning and
 promotion. Our support programme includes peer review of funding applications, writing for
 publication workshops, a ‘work in progress’ seminar series to enhance academic criticality and
 networking opportunities. We hold regular methodological and research-development sessions,
 including those for ECRs and PGR students. Our research clusters host tailored seminars and
 research forums, including those by international speakers, to promote research engagement,
 networking and collaboration. Recently we have amalgamated our research support events into
 the ‘Thursday Research Hour’ to further embed them within Faculty culture; these continued on
 a virtual platform during the COVID pandemic with each session recorded for retrospective
 access. A Faculty research intranet provides information on support, events and processes. This
 includes our ‘Researcher’s Journey’ resource to support those at different stages of their
 research career.


 Engagement with practice
 Maintenance of strong individual links with clinical practice forms a key part of our research
 strategy. We stimulate and facilitate exchanges between the Unit and practice in various ways.
 We have visiting professors from practice including a seconded professor, Rogers (Aintree
 Hospital), who has worked with us over a long period and is integral to one case study. Kiernan
 works as a Nurse Consultant with the Alder Hey Children’s NHSFT where Carter is Director of
 the Children’s Nursing Research Unit. Irving (0.3 FTE), a GP, currently works part-time in
 general practice which aligns with his research interests and affords him greater access to
 research participants. Similarly, Krishnamoorthy, a nurse and surgical care practitioner, works
 on a part-time basis with a secondary care Trust to underpin her work to improve surgical care
 practice. Dey, a Public Health Consultant, has an honorary contract with Public Health England
 (PHE). We are developing a process to establish joint clinical appointments which will reinforce a
 mutually beneficial exchange.


 The postgraduate community
 PGR students are fully integrated into the Faculty and have done much to support the
 development of our research culture since REF2014. All students have a team of supervisors
 who provide subject and methodological expertise, with additional training and support offered

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by the Faculty to supplement the Graduate School’s programme. At census point we have a
 vibrant PGR community of 21 PhD and 6 MRes students, along with students immediately post-
 graduate, and Faculty staff undertaking doctoral studies. Significant University investment in
 GTAs has supported this growth and we have increasing numbers of externally funded PGR
 students including an NIHR Doctoral Fellowship in collaboration with Alder Hey Children’s
 Hospital NHSFT.
 We work closely with our partners to identify suitable research projects based on their priorities
 to support practicing healthcare professionals to undertake part-time PhD and MRes studies –
 employer-funded students include staff from Liverpool Women’s NHSFT, Alder Hey Children’s
 Hospital NHSFT, St Helens and Knowsley Teaching Hospitals NHST and Liverpool University
 Hospitals NHSFT. These projects also help ensure benefit and impact of research in the long-
 term.
 We have focused on ensuring comprehensive support and training for our PGR students.
 Students undergo an extensive induction programme and complete a regularly-reviewed PDP to
 identify individual training and development needs. Students have full access to our Faculty
 research-training and development, which includes statistical support (for those students
 undertaking quantitative studies), as well as methodological and more general research-
 development sessions (including postdoctoral careers and fellowship applications); sessions are
 recorded to facilitate access for our part-time students. The Faculty hosts an annual PGR
 Conference (held remotely during the pandemic) to showcase research and support
 presentation skills development. GTAs are supported to undertake the PGCTHE which
 enhances their employability. We provide financial support for national and international
 conference attendance and external training. We have developed a structured programme to
 guide and monitor supervisory meetings and training needs which complements annual
 monitoring of progress by the Graduate School. Additional support during the pandemic included
 monthly Zoom meetings with our PGR Tutor, as well as supported discussions and sharing of
 experience with students at other HEIs.
 We have increased our supervisory capacity by including ECRs in supervisory teams; the
 number of staff who have supervised to completion has more than trebled since REF2014. New
 supervisors are supported by experienced colleagues with PhD completions. Supervisory teams
 may include staff from other UOAs to support inter-disciplinary research, international staff to
 encourage global perspectives, as well as practising clinicians to support integration into current
 clinical practice. Supervisors undergo a mandatory Graduate School supervisor training
 programme complemented by annual Faculty supervisory update sessions.
 Students are supported to publish, during and after their PhD, including publications in BMJ
 Open and Palliative Medicine. Hartley (supervisor Carter) has been nominated for Innovation
 Agency NWC PhD student of the Year and Carter was identified as EHU PGR Supervisor of the
 Year (2020). Our students are highly employable, reflected in post-doctoral research positions,
 and internal and external lectureships, while others have enjoyed progression within clinical
 practice.


 Strategy to ensure equality, diversity and inclusion
 The Faculty achieved an Athena Swan Bronze Award (2018) (led by Peacock) and delivering
 the action plan is a standing agenda-item on our formal committees. Austin is a founding
 member of the University’s EDI Steering Group and was Chair of the University Athena Swan
 Steering Group (2015-18) with Bray, Brown and O’Brien as members. Austin,
 Krishnamoorthy, and Spencer featured in the NHS Research and Development North West
 ‘Wonder Women’ series of online videos including personal journeys and challenges, designed
 to inspire and encourage those considering undertaking health research
 (https://research.northwest.nhs.uk/work/film-series-3-wonder-women/).
 We are committed to providing opportunities for all and to support researchers to achieve their
 potential. The Faculty supports flexible working and part-time contracts, and a number of
 submitted staff have changed their working hours during the current REF period in light of

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 changing personal circumstances. Our part-time staff have been able to progress their careers
 at the same rate: Bray, for example, has been part-time since her appointment, has been
 promoted to professor, and is leading a case-study.
 Staff undergo mandatory EDI training and, for those involved in appointments, unconscious bias
 training. We are mindful, however, that we are not as diverse as we might be and will work with
 HR to ensure that we are reaching under-represented groups when we recruit. We will also work
 with our networks to promote EHU to potential applicants; particularly regarding PGR
 opportunities, since they will be the leaders of the future.
 The REF process had EDI considerations at its core. Through applying our REF2021 Code of
 Practice (CoP), 22% of Category A eligible staff in FHSCM were identified as Category A
 submitted (39 staff, of whom 36 are being returned to this UOA). Our output selection processes
 were led by two professors (1F:1M); however, all submitted staff were involved in peer review.
 This has had many benefits – it introduces staff to each other’s work and helps all to understand
 the REF processes more fully. Staff selected and self-reviewed outputs they wished to be
 considered for submission; for former staff this was facilitated by UOA co-ordinators. All outputs
 identified for consideration were peer reviewed internally by at least two members of staff (senior
 staff and those with subject expertise). Outputs not suitable for this UOA were cross-referred to
 other UOAs for consideration. External review was used for a random selection of outputs and
 where there was no agreement on ranking.
 All self-review scores and peer review scores were made available on a shared drive to enhance
 transparency and to support personal development. UOA coordinators identified a long-list of
 outputs for consideration by REF Decisions Panel, based on ranking, fit with unit’s research
 narrative and to support representation of our submitted staff. Our submitted output attributions
 are broadly similar to our REF1 profile, except for gender (male colleagues (30% of REF1) are
 under-represented with 20% of output attributions) and part-time (part-time colleagues (19%
 REF1) are over-represented with 25% of output attributions); these reflect the career stage of
 staff in both categories. We were satisfied that the outputs selected are a fair representation of
 staff demographics.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 Our income has grown from £1.02m in REF2014 to £1.82m in this submission (78% increase).
 The total value of grants awarded during the cycle that include Faculty staff is £5.641m. This has
 reflected our three-point strategy for income generation:
    •   enhanced staff support for funding generation;
    •   diversification of funding sources; and
    •   increasing our involvement in larger multi-professional studies via collaboration.


 Enhanced staff support
 Support for funding applications is key to our strategy for ensuring the vitality and sustainability
 of the Unit. This is especially important for ECRs and less experienced researchers who are the
 focus of our measures. We have hosted a range of external speakers from research funders and
 support services, including the NIHR Fellowships Programme, Research Design Service NW
 and the Clinical Research Network, NWC to increase awareness and support understanding of
 requirements. Staff are supported to develop funding applications via research mentorship and
 peer review. In particular, we have strategically supported applications to the University’s
 internal funding schemes, with more than 67% of our submitted staff receiving such funds since
 2014: this pump primes external funding applications and provides experience of project
 leadership and management evidenced by Kiernan (supported by Bray) progressing from an
 internal funding award, through being a co-applicant on an external funding award, to leading a
 successful external funding submission (Burdett Trust, £46K). Another element of our strategy is

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to support less-experienced staff by developing them as co-applicants on funding applications
 led by senior staff: e.g., Knighting was supported as co-applicant on a successful NIHR HS&DR
 grant application, led by Spencer; while Blake, supported by Carter and Bray, was co-applicant
 on an NIHR RfPB application led by a clinical collaborator. This is key to our future income-
 generation strategy and for our growth and sustainability. These projects will produce outputs in
 the next cycle.
 Invited membership of LHP, with financial commitment from the University, allows access to
 SPARK (Single Point of Access to Research and Knowledge) to provide our staff with further
 support and guidance including grant application, costings, study set up, dissemination and
 impact. As new members of LHP we expect the benefits of this to be fully realised during the
 next REF period.


 Diversification of funding sources
 In our 2014 submission we reported particular success in undertaking short projects which
 address local and regional issues; while this continues, our funding now includes major
 competitive and multi-centre awards including NIHR programme grants (SA3) (£2.7M Carter
 and Bray), NIHR i4i (£1.2M, Carter), NIHR HTA (£1.7M, Spencer, £1.4M Karkou). We have
 achieved this through enhanced networking and collaboration (section 4). Our success includes
 leadership of major awards; for example, Bray is chief investigator on an Innovate UK award
 (£600,000) and Spencer on an NIHR HTA award (£190,000). Our grant capture also includes
 awards from bodies including charities, e.g., Crohn’s and Colitis UK (Carter), Scope (Blake,
 Bray, Carter), British Scoliosis Research Foundation (Bray, Carter), professional bodies (e.g.
 The British Dietetic Association – Abayomi) and Erasmus funding (Karkou). Maintaining close
 links with practice is key to our strategy and we continue to receive funding from local clinical
 commissioning groups (CCGs) and healthcare providers (Dey, Jack, Kaehne, Karkou,
 O’Brien). It is notable that Brown has received continuous funding from HEENW for 18 years;
 latterly, Sandars has also received regular HEENW funding. We have extended our funding
 during this REF cycle to include that from NHS England (Brown, Jack, Kaehne, Sandars) and
 PHE (Brown, Dey). During the current REF period we have secured, for the first time, NIHR
 fellowships at doctoral (Carter, supervisor) and postdoctoral levels (Krishnamoorthy with
 Spencer as mentor).


 Increasing our involvement in larger multi-professional studies via collaboration
 Working in larger studies has begun to bear fruit in all the research clusters: e.g. Carter and
 Bray’s multi-centre NIHR Programme Grant (£2.2M) CASTLE study (Changing Agendas for
 Sleep, Learning and Epilepsy) is driving forward a child/family-centred understanding of
 intervention choices for children with Rolandic epilepsy. Spencer is co-applicant on UK FROST
 (United Kingdom Frozen Shoulder Trial), a £1.7M NIHR funded multi-centre trial that recently
 reported similar outcomes for surgery compared with early structured physiotherapy for
 persistent frozen shoulder. Karkou is co-applicant on a £1.4M NIHR national multi-centre cross-
 sectoral study assessing the effectiveness of arts psychotherapies for adults with mental health
 problems. This strategy and working to align our research with funder priorities will continue into
 the next REF cycle.


 Infrastructure supporting research
 Our work has been underpinned by >£19m strategic University investment in new facilities. The
 new Clinical Skills and Simulation Centre (opened 2019 – a £4M refurbishment) provides state-
 of-the-art facilities for simulation and clinical learning, additional offices for our expanding staff
 base and dedicated space for our PhD students and RAs. The University has invested £1.9m in
 facilities at the new Research and Education Centre at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital NHSFT.
 This encourages close research collaboration with our NHS partners and, via adjacent research



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilities, local HEIs, particularly for the Children’s Nursing Research Unit (led by Carter). This
 investment directly supports one of our impact case-studies.
 We have also benefited from the £13m University investment in the Tech Hub (including £3m
 from the Lancashire LEP), which houses the Computer Science Department’s CAVE (a 4k high
 resolution computer augmented virtual environment). The CAVE has facilitated collaboration
 with clinical partners; for example, working with colleagues from Aintree Hospital, Sandars and
 Brown have used it to simulate emergency situations in theatre and trauma-bay environments to
 improve professional practice. The Tech Hub also provides state-of-the-art laboratory facilities,
 shared with the Department of Biology, which are used by our expanding laboratory-based
 research staff. Sharing resources in this way stimulates a culture of interdisciplinary enquiry and
 collaboration. Recently opened (2020) kitchen and food processing facilities (£220,000
 investment) help support our growing behavioural nutrition research (Abayomi,
 Blennerhassett, Bradbury), an area of enquiry which complements expertise in our
 Department of Sport and Physical Activity.


 Technical and administrative support
 We have appointed a medical statistician to support quantitative research and our impact RA
 collates evidence of research impact. Our Faculty Research Support Administration team, which
 has grown three-fold since 2014, helps identify and disseminate research funding opportunities,
 planning and delivering events, provides pre- and post-award support and management, and
 monitors PGR progress. Oversight and monitoring systems Pure (research management), Haplo
 (ethics) and Figshare (data repository), help underpin the Faculty’s strategy to maximise the
 impact of all its research activity, monitor the progress of projects and ensure informed decision-
 making regarding resource allocation.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our overall aims for extending research collaboration and wider external impact since REF2014
 have focused on the following:
    •   ensuring contribution to wider national and international research
    •   maintaining and embedding our contribution to health care practice
    •   closer engagement of the public and healthcare communities in our research
        dissemination of our outputs with wider audiences.


 Establishment of the Health Research Institute (HRI)
 The development of the HRI has been key to our strategy of enhancing internal and external
 collaboration as a platform for cross-sectoral multi-disciplinary research, prioritisation and
 dissemination. The HRI supports staff from different University academic disciplines, including
 sports science, computer science, psychology, biology, education and business, to work with
 external colleagues from local, national and international HEI’s, NHS and other organisations, to
 support multi-perspective impactful research. The HRI Steering Group (chaired by Austin)
 includes representatives from NHS trusts, CCGs, public health, local councils and HEE and
 helps to define our joint research priorities; this includes advising HRI funding awards decisions.
 HRI activity is guided by the multi-disciplinary Management Group (chaired by Spencer) that
 drives a programme of outreach events, seminars, workshops and knowledge-exchange forums
 designed to support collaboration, stimulate ideas and increase awareness of the work of HRI
 members. These have included ‘catalyst’ events, such as those delivered collaboratively with
 NHS R&D North West, specifically designed to bring together academic and clinical researchers
 for project development. As an example, one such event resulted in a new interdisciplinary
 collaboration between Dey, Relph, a colleague in Psychology and a local authority Public Health



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Consultant which led to internal funding for a project designed to increase our understanding of
 potential barriers to physical activity in obesity.
 The HRI is one of three University research institutes, providing support for inter-disciplinary
 collaborative research including individualised support for grant application and project
 development and holds events to facilitate research collaboration. The HRI has supported the
 development and establishment of our two new research centres, the Respiratory Research
 Centre and the Centre for Arts and Wellbeing, which provide infrastructure for more focused
 research in the form of collaboration, research support and administration. The latter has already
 hosted several events including a launch event for The Oxford Handbook of Dance and
 Wellbeing (Karkou, Editor), opened by the CEO of the Arts Council, and an international
 conference Arts and Psychotherapy: Emotional Wellbeing and Mental Health, designed to
 facilitate collaboration.
 The Faculty also works with the University’s other research institutes: Kaehne was the
 Associate Director of the Institute for Public Policy and Professional Practice (now the Institute
 for Social Responsibility: ISR) and currently leads ISR’s Evaluation and Policy Analysis Unit.
 Karkou works closely with the Institute for Creative Enterprise to support collaboration between
 health-related research and creative arts. Faculty investment is in the form of time and finances,
 support for events, training and development. The annual ‘Festival of Ideas’ hosted by all three
 University research institutes includes workshops, lectures and creative events designed to
 showcase broader research and facilitate collaboration.


 Enhancing external collaboration and contribution through research networks and
 healthcare bodies
 We have broadened the footprint of our external national and international collaboration and
 contribution through membership of research networks and collaboratives and enhanced
 engagement with health and social care providers and commissioners.
 Locally, these partnerships and contributions include board membership of the Innovation
 Agency NWC (Spencer), Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh Teaching Hospitals NHSFT (Austin)
 and Liverpool City Region Health and Life Sciences Board (Spencer). During the current REF
 period we have also been invited to join LHP, the Academic Health Science System for Cheshire
 and Merseyside, where we support strategy via board membership. We contribute to regional
 research strategies in a number of ways. For example, Austin is a member of the Starting Well
 Strategic Oversight Committee, an LHP research theme that aligns with the work of our CYPF
 research cluster, while Jack and O’Brien are members of Liverpool CCG R&D Strategy Group.
 LHP has very recently (2020) adopted our Respiratory Research Centre and our Centre for Arts
 and Wellbeing in recognition of their work and strategic importance in addressing population
 needs.
 We are founding members of SEED, a new partnership of health, care, academic and voluntary
 sector organisations collaborating to improve the social, economic and environmental
 determinants of health in Lancashire and South Cumbria, again with Board membership
 (Austin). Irving sits on the Governing Body for St Helens CCG and is Lead for Research and
 Innovation. We are members of NIHR ARC NWC, with a focus on health inequalities, which
 further strengthens our collaborations with local providers, commissioners and HEIs with
 Spencer leading the Evidence Synthesis Methods Group and Irving as deputy lead for the
 Complex Interventions Research Group.
 Increasing contribution to healthcare practice
 Influence on guidelines and practice: To maintain external relevance, currency and impact we
 have ensured our research is embedded in and informed by practice. Our work on carers and
 end of life care (Jack, O’Brien – impact case study) has influenced NICE Guidance: Supporting
 Adult Carers (2020) https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng150. Work by Krishnamoorthy on
 endoscopic vein harvesting for coronary bypass grafting has also influenced NICE Interventional
 procedures guidelines (http://nice.org.uk/guidance/ipg494). Irving’s work on cardiometabolic
 disorders and treatment has informed American Heart Association Guideline on Primary Prevention

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Cardiovascular Disease, British Hypertension Society Statement on the diagnosis of
 hypertension in obese patients with large or very large arm circumference, American Diabetes
 Association and European Association for the Study of Diabetes consensus report on the
 management of Type 2 diabetes, and Royal College of General Practitioners Fit for future report.
 Data from the ADDITION-Europe trial, the first randomised trial in a screen detected population
 with Type 2 Diabetes has been used to inform US Preventative Task force and the UK National
 Screening Committee policy on screening for Type 2 Diabetes.
 Items from the PCI in head and neck cancer have been incorporated into the Macmillan Cancer
 Support Holistic Health Needs Assessment (impact case study). The work of our research
 centres is already influencing guidelines and receiving international recognition. Our recent
 Cochrane series of systematic reviews on bronchiectasis (led by Spencer) have informed the
 British Thoracic Society guidelines for the use of long-term macrolides in adults with respiratory
 disease, the Australian Asthma Handbook and the Brazilian Consensus on non-CF
 bronchiectasis; Treatment of nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease: an official
 ATS/ERS/ESCMID/IDSA clinical practice guideline). Our research on the holding of children for clinical
 procedures (Bray, Carter) has informed the RCN’s (2019) updated clinical guidance – Restrictive
 physical interventions and the clinical holding of children and young people (impact case study).
 Our research is informing local, regional and international training and practice. For example, work by
 Sandars and Brown, funded by the Difficult Airways Society, with colleagues at Liverpool
 University Hospitals NHSFT, that focused on training for emergency front of neck access
 procedures, using a simulated environment, has informed changes to a WHO local surgical
 safety checklist. Research on performance enhancement and self-regulated learning, led by
 Sandars, and including national (Nottingham, Leicester) and international collaboration (Iran,
 Brazil) has informed support for struggling students across health professions and is improving
 prescribing by junior doctors in HEE East Midlands. Work by Abayomi on maternal health has
 resulted in the development of Mamafit, a health, fitness and wellbeing programme for pregnant
 and postnatal women and families funded by Liverpool Women's Hospital, Liverpool CCG and
 Liverpool Public Health which has won Liverpool’s best bring-along-baby activity in the 2019
 Hoop Awards and Merseyside's Favourite Adult class in the 2014 Netmums ‘Mums Choice’
 awards.
 Karkou, with membership of the New York University of International Creative Arts Therapies
 Research Alliance (a research consortium of eight universities – with EHU the only UK member),
 has recently been commissioned by the WHO to review the evidence base for health benefits
 associated with arts and arts therapies.


 Increasing influence on healthcare professions
 As detailed in section 2, we have excellent links with local NHS providers. The Alder Hey
 Children’s Nursing Research Unit (led by Carter) has supported more than 14 nurses and allied
 health professionals (AHP) to study for PGR degrees in this REF period.
 The unit also supports research development – for example, a former MRes student progressed
 to co-applicant on the Crohn’s and Colitis UK funded Being Me with IBD Study (Carter, Bray,
 Blake). Indeed, our support for health professional research development extends from
 supporting successful NIHR internship – e.g., a neonatal nurse specialist which led to co-
 authorship of a Cochrane review (supervisor Spencer) – through to individual NIHR fellowship
 which addresses key issues in practice. We support public health trainees in developing
 research competence. Carter is a member of the Paediatric Pain and Palliative Care Group,
 established by NIHR Clinical Research Network to support clinical studies.
 Staff are supported to maintain clinical currency, membership of professional bodies (NMC,
 HCPC, GMC, GPhC) and active links with practice.




                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Increasing contribution to national and international research
 Editorial positions and contribution to research governance: Since 2014 our staff have made
 significant contributions to peer review and the wider research base, including editorial roles for
 19 journals demonstrating our inter-disciplinarity and range of expertise: e.g., Journal of Child
 Health Care (Carter, Editor in Chief to 2018), Journal of Integrated Care (Kaehne, Editor in
 Chief), Body, Movement and Dance in Psychotherapy (Karkou, Co-Editor), Medical Teacher
 (Sandars, Associate Editor), American Journal of Dance Therapy (Karkou, Editorial Board),
 PLOS One (Spencer), British Journal of Midwifery (Briscoe, Editorial Board), Nurse Researcher
 (Jack, Editorial Board), Cochrane Airways Group (Spencer), Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive
 Improvement Group (Spencer), Comprehensive Child and Adolescent Nursing (Carter,
 International Editorial Board member), British Journal of Neuroscience Nursing (O’Brien),
 Journal of Pharmacological and Toxicological Methods (Austin, Editorial Board), International
 Journal of Medical Education (Sandars, Editorial Board), Education for Primary Care (Sandars,
 Editorial Board), Child Health Nursing Research (Official Journal of Korean Academy of Child
 Health Nursing) (Carter, International Editorial Board). Staff regularly review for a wide range of
 journals and grant awarding bodies including NIHR, ESRC, MRC and are involved in funding
 panels: e.g. O’Brien’s membership of the NIHR North West RfPB panel and the MND
 Association Health Research Advisory Panel, and Karkou’s membership of the British
 Association of Drama therapists grant panel.
 Since REF2014 staff have acted as external examiners for more than 50 PhDs. Staff also
 contribute to PhD supervision at other universities; for example, Carter for NIHR PhD
 studentships at the universities of Liverpool and Plymouth, while Karkou and Dey are involved
 in international PhD supervision (Finland, South Africa, USA). We contribute to research
 governance of other funded studies: e.g., O’Brien as Chair of the Data Management & Ethics
 Committee for the NIHR funded Commend Study (feasibility study & RCT of acceptance and
 commitment therapy for people with MND).
 Leadership: The examples below highlight our significant contribution to leadership of national
 professional and research bodies. Carter is President of the Association of British Paediatric
 Nurses. Krishnamoorthy is President of the Association of Cardiothoracic Surgical Care
 Practitioners (UK) and National Chair of the Nursing and AHPs section of the Society of
 Cardiothoracic Surgery (GB & Ireland). She is National Research and Educational Lead for
 Nurses and AHP’s for the Royal College of Surgeons (Edinburgh). Abayomi is Chair of the
 British Dietetic Association Board. Kelly is a member of the Executive Committee of the
 Association of Respiratory Nurse Specialists and founder and Chair of the Respiratory Nurse
 Research Consortium. Jack has been Chair of Palliative Care Research Society, Brown Deputy
 Chair for the Association for the Study of Medical Education (ASME) Research Committee and
 Sandars External Education advisor to the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health’s
 Education and Training Quality Committee. We influence research priorities and strategy via
 membership of steering and advisory groups. For example, Bray is a member of the RCN
 Research in Child Health Nursing National Steering Group and Carter is a member of the NIHR
 Clinical Studies Group on Paediatric Pain and Palliative Care. Knighting is a member of the
 national Hospice UK research advisory group and O’Brien is a member of the UK MND Clinical
 Studies Group. Irving has been a member of the UK National Screening Committee and the
 NICE Medication technology Committee.
 Internationally, Kaehne is President of the European Health Management Association. Karkou
 sits on the Steering Group for KenVaK, an international arts therapies research centre and on
 the Advisory Board for the International Centre for Research in Arts Therapies that is based at
 Imperial College. Sandars is co-chair of the Technology Enhanced Learning Committee of the
 Association for Medical Education in Europe (AMEE) and Panel Chair of AMEE’s ASPIRE award
 for excellence in Technology Enhanced Learning.
 Recognition and awards: Our work has been recognised by awards including those relating to
 impact on clinical practice. For example, the DETECT Study (NIHR i4i, £1.2M) (Carter), which is
 evaluating an electronic physiological surveillance system for detecting clinical deterioration in
 children, won the Patient Safety award at the Innovation Agency NWC 2020 awards, The Most
 Promising Solution in the Health Tech Awards 2020 and was highly commended in the

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 'Deteriorating Patients and Rapid Response Systems' category in the 2020 Health Service
 Journal Patient Safety Awards. Our Children Coming to Hospital, Telling My Friends and
 Communicating Lily’s Pain resources (Bray, Carter), which include comic strips and animations,
 have been endorsed by the RCN in recognition of their value to clinical practice. The work of
 Watmough on pharmacist-led feedback and prescribing errors showcases an example of close
 collaborations between the Faculty and St Helens and Knowsley Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust.
 It received the ‘Taking Research into Practice’ award in the 2018 NWC Research Innovation
 awards, an ’Excellence in Pharmacy Practice’ award at the Clinical Pharmacy Congress Awards
 (2017) and was shortlisted for a Health Service Journal UK Patient Safety Award (2017). The
 work received a Best Paper award (2018) from Research in Social and Administrative
 Pharmacy. Brown was awarded the 2015 ‘Excellent Medical Education’ prize in the
 Postgraduate Category awarded by the ASME and GMC for his work on trainee engagement
 with E-learning.
 Krishnamoorthy has been awarded Fellowship of the Faculty of Perioperative Care, Royal
 College of Surgeons (SCTS), Edinburgh, the first woman to obtain such an award for research
 and teaching in cardiothoracic surgery in GB and Ireland, and has recently been awarded an
 SCTS Ionsecu research travel fellowship. She currently holds a personal NIHR postdoctoral
 fellowship. Carter is a Fellow of the RCN. Her standing in the field has been recognised by her
 inclusion in the recent RCN publication Advancing the Science and Practice of Nursing: a
 collection of articles by fellows of the RCN to celebrate the international year of the nurse and
 midwife 2020. Irving is a Fellow of the Royal College of General Practitioners.
 Visiting and honorary appointments: Strong reciprocal academic collaboration is supported by
 visiting appointments at both UK and international institutions: Visiting/Honorary Chairs include
 the University of Tasmania (Carter), Auckland University of Technology (Carter), University of
 Pretoria (Sandars), Riga Stradins University Latvia (Karkou), Institute for Hospice and Palliative
 Care in Africa (Jack), University of Eastern Finland (Kaehne), University of Liverpool (Jack).
 Our engagement with practice is further strengthened by the appointment of Honorary Clinical
 Chairs within the Faculty – these include Professor Groves, Medical Director at Queenscourt
 Hospice, who works with our end-of-life care research group and professors Rogers and Moots
 who continue to collaborate with colleagues on the PCI via Faculty-funded secondments.


 Closer engagement with the public and healthcare communities
 We further enrich user-driven research prioritisation through co-designed research and user
 involvement; this is exemplified by our ongoing work with the Young People’s Research Advisory
 Group at Ormskirk School, who have guided grant applications and research design through an
 NIHR Research Design Service PPIE engagement award (Bray). We have a dedicated Family
 Engagement Officer funded through an NIHR Programme Grant (Carter, Bray). We have a well-
 established Faculty Service User and Carers Group who engage in all aspects of research
 design with Knighting as research lead.
 We use a wide range of approaches to dissemination and public engagement to ensure our
 research is accessible to external audiences, including children. For example, in our programme
 of children’s pain research, Carter works with leading writers, directors, animators, dancers,
 practitioners, lay champions, charities, parents and children to understand and support chronic
 pain. This includes the Somatic Practice and Chronic Pain AHRC-funded network. Supported
 through partnership with Tate Liverpool, Concurrent #3 (led by Karkou), a week-long event on
 participatory arts and wellbeing to showcase research findings and support impact, included our
 programme of work on creative and arts-based methods within research (Carter and Bray),
 while The Mother of All Pain is an example of a partnership between our academics (Carter),
 writers and performers.
 In conclusion, our submission evidences significant development since 2014 in the quantity,
 reach and significance of our research. We have enhanced research capacity and capability of
 our staff to ensure long-term sustainability and developed our research environment and
 resources to support staff at all career stages. Our collaborations and partnerships have helped
 to maximise our contributions to research and society. We will build on this success to develop

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 further our thematic research and our staff support. We will continue to maximise our
 collaborations to ensure our research is embedded in practice and has impact locally, nationally
 and internationally.




                                                                                          Page 17
