Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 31: Theology and Religious Studies


 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 A. Unit context & structure
 Context. St Mary’s College, the School of Divinity at the University of St Andrews, is a world-
 renowned centre for research in Divinity. The School of Divinity maintains a place among the top
 100 universities in the QS World Rankings for our discipline (24th in 2018; 18th in 2019; 17th in
 2020) placing us above prestigious programs in the discipline like Ruprecht-Karls-Universität
 Heidelberg, Emory University, Edinburgh University, and University of Toronto. We
 characteristically rank as one of the top three UK departments of Theology and Religious Studies
 in the Guardian table (2nd in 2019 and 2020).
 Divinity has been taught at St Andrews since the foundation of the University in 1413. Our school
 is a research community of 23 permanent academic staff, 12 fixed-term academic staff (postdocs),
 3 teaching fellows, ≈85 postgraduate research students, ≈65 taught postgraduate students, and
 ≈85 undergraduate students. Together we strive to produce world leading research, train
 exceptional postgraduate students, share our research generously, and enrich society within the
 context of a thriving and inclusive research culture.
 Distinctives. The research culture of School of Divinity has two distinguishing characteristics. (1)
 We are committed to the theoretical, historical, and linguistic competencies of the classical
 disciplines of Divinity. This shapes our research, our school structure, and our curriculum at all
 levels. These competencies allow clear patterns of discourse between disciplines. (2) We are
 characterised by fruitful interaction between disciplines, by intra- and interdisciplinary engagement
 that is distinguished by a pluralist ethos, respecting the integrity of each discipline and its methods.
 This pluralism enables approaches to cooperate, contest, and correct one another. Convivial
 contestation, productive encounters between different research methods and disciplines are at
 the heart of our research culture. These characteristics will be apparent in every section below.
 Structure. The School is structured to facilitate and encourage fluid relations between disciplinary,
 intra-disciplinary, and interdisciplinary research (see Institution-Level Environment Statement,
 ILES, 2.5). Our design is apparent in the organisation of the staff in disciplinary subject units and
 interdisciplinary institutes and one centre, which have been strategically developed over the last
 twenty years as research in the Humanities has become increasingly collaborative. It is also
 apparent in our progression from undergraduate (disciplinary and intradisciplinary) to
 postgraduate (intra- and interdisciplinary) curriculum.
 The academic staff are organised into units corresponding to the classical disciplines, which are
 divided at St Andrews into Hebrew Bible & ancient Judaism, New Testament & early Christianity,
 church history & historical theology, systematic & philosophical theology, and practical theology &
 ethics. Two weekly research seminars (Theology and Biblical Studies) are dedicated to the
 dissemination of new research in these disciplines. The majority of our staff and research
 postgraduates (PGRs) participate in one or both of these seminars.
 Collaborative, intradisciplinary, and interdisciplinary research is the particular focus of our
 research institutes and centre. (Institutes host a taught postgraduate programme; a centre does
 not.) In addition to a subject area affiliation, nearly all of our research staff (and most PGRs) belong
 to at least one of the School’s institutes or centre and participate in one or more of their seminars.
 Our institutes and centre are described below under “interdisciplinarity.”
 Many of our staff and PGRs also contribute to research institutes, seminars, and projects hosted
 by other departments, expanding an already rich interdisciplinary environment. These include but
 are not limited to: Classics, History, Medieval Studies, English, International Relations, Social
 Anthropology, Modern Languages, Philosophy, Institute for Gender Studies, Institute of Legal and


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Constitutional Research, Institute of Intellectual History, Institute of Medieval Studies, the
 Reformation Studies Institute, Centre for Research in Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion, Centre for
 Higher Education Research, and the Centre for Late Antique Studies.
 Research and impact activities in the School are overseen by the Head of School (HoS), Director
 of Research (DoR), Director of Impact (DoI), Research Committee, Impact Committee, and
 Research Ethics Committee, with the support of the University’s office of Research and Innovation
 Services.

 B. Research & impact strategy
 Our strategic objective is to ensure that St Mary’s continues to be a centre for outstanding
 research with strong links to the international academic community, while ensuring our research
 and expertise can be shared liberally inside and outside of the academic world. At the same time,
 we are committed to academic freedom, to undirected research and freedom of expression. Staff
 are free to pursue whatever research questions or impact activities they find compelling, or urgent,
 or worthy, and to communicate them in any appropriate media or forums. No research topics,
 modalities, or impact activities are privileged, and none are discouraged. In pursuit of our strategic
 objective, we have aimed:
    • to recruit and retain excellent researchers
    • to promote and advance the linguistic, theoretical, and historical competencies of our
      classical disciplines
    • to foster interdisciplinary and collaborative research
    • to create an inclusive and supportive research environment for all members of our academic
      community
    • to cultivate a new generation of excellent researchers
    • to widen access to the results of our research and to diversify our impact activities.
 Our efforts in these six areas are detailed in sections 2-4 below. A number of markers of success
 indicate that this has been a fruitful direction of travel.
 Research outputs. Within this REF-cycle, our School can boast the publication of 34 monographs
 and text editions, 48 edited collections, 426 peer-reviewed articles and chapters, 25 encyclopaedia
 articles, and 48 musical compositions. This quantity of outputs is due to our recruitment and
 retention of exceptional staff, to our grant successes (particularly with large research projects), to
 our organisation of and participation in many international conferences and workshops, to our
 many productive collaborations, and to the provision of staff development, including mentoring,
 research leave, and administrative support. The quality of our research is reflected in the many
 markers of our staffs’ prominence in the academy like: scholarly awards, fellowships, project
 grants, editorships, presidencies and executive officer positions, honorary degrees awarded, and
 academic promotions. (Detailed below.)
 Funded projects. Our School is host to a number of ambitious new research and impact projects.
 Some are traditional projects, pursuing particular research questions and culminating in published
 outputs (e.g.: “Texture: Historical Poetics of Ancient Jewish Literature,” $168,000).
 Others establish networks of researchers who strive collectively to resolve urgent research
 questions in a discipline (e.g., “New Directions in Philosophical Theology, £174,000). Some are
 impact-oriented (e.g., “Scientists in Congregations, Scotland” £391,246), and some aim to widen
 access to the results of research (“St Andrews Encyclopaedia of Theology,” £3,360,473). Still
 others are a mixture of these possibilities (e.g., “New Visions in Theological Anthropology:
 Engaging with the Behavioural Sciences,” £2,216,881). Large-scale project grants are developed
 with assistance from the school’s Research Committee, a dedicated liaison officer in the financial
 advice and support office (FAS), and the University’s Research Funding Office. Our funded
 projects have generated 153 research outputs within the REF-period (15 monographs, 20
 collections, and 118 articles), employed 13 post-doctoral researchers, and helped develop several
 impact initiatives. (See section 4)
 Interdisciplinarity. Our interdisciplinary institutes and centre are integral to the structure of the
 School. They are a central part of academic life in the school, especially for staff and PGRs, and

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 they are thriving. Their robust health is evidence of the energy and productivity surrounding
 interdisciplinarity in the School. The participation of our staff in our institutes and centre is at an
 all-time high (95%) as is the formal participation (e.g., on advisory committees) of scholars from
 other departments and universities (50+).
  ITIA: The Institute for Theology, Imagination, and the Arts engages with ‘art’ in its broadest
  sense: with the fine arts, with pop art, with craft, and theorisations of creativity. It moves beyond
  theoretical study to encompass the production and performance of art as religious practice. (No
  institution in the world that has a similar focus can boast a breadth comparable to ITIA’s.) ITIA
  has five permanent staff (4.2 FTE), and ≈30 PGRs are closely involved in its activities. ITIA is
  home to two MLitt programmes, one longstanding (Theology & the Arts) and one new (Sacred
  Music; joint with Music Centre), and its own seminar, welcoming about 20 presenters per year.
  It hosts numerous themed conferences (e.g., The Offence of Beauty, Theatrical Theology), a
  monograph series (Ashgate Studies in Imagination, Theology, and the Arts), an annual artist-in-
  residence (Nora Kirkham for 2020-21), an annual art festival, numerous exhibitions and poetry
  readings, and a student art-makers group (Transept). Examples of ITIA’s research, access, and
  impact activities include the TheoArtistry impact case study, an open access book and music-
  CD (both titled Annunciations: Sacred Music for the Twenty-first Century), a peer-reviewed
  journal (The Journal of Inkling Studies), and an award-winning blog (Transpositions).
  CSRP: The Centre for the Study of Religion and Politics was founded in 2004 in order to conduct
  interdisciplinary research on all areas regarding religion and politics. It is located in the School
  of Divinity but has members from many other schools in the University (e.g., International
  Relations, Modern Languages, Social Anthropology, Management). The CSRP community
  includes five staff from our school ≈20 PGRs. CSRP has its own weekly research seminar. CSRP
  staff direct or participate in several funded international research networks (e.g., Religion and
  Politics in Tibet, 1931-2009; the Surveillance and Religion Network), and staff attached to the
  centre consult with advocacy groups, on heritage projects, and with government on issues of
  asylum, surveillance, and religious tolerance. Many of these activities include or lead directly to
  impact, including two major impact initiatives: Declaration on a Shared Humanity and God Tied
  in Knots.
  IBTH: The Institute for Bible, Theology,
  and Hermeneutics is dedicated to                                     Art History                           Philosophy
  intradisciplinarity between biblical studies,            Aesthetics
                                                                                      Literature                            Ethics

                                                                                                                                  Metaphysics
  theology, and church history, and to                     Film
                                                         Studies
  interdisciplinary research with classics,                                     ITIA                             L
                                                                                                               OGOS
                                                                                                                                     Psychology
                                                         Popular
  history, law, and hermeneutics. As a                   Culture
                                                                                                                                    Empirical
                                                                                                                                    Sciences
  research institute, IBTH maintains two                         Music

  international conference series (the St                                                     Classical
                                                                                            Disciplines of
                                                         International                                                        Hermeneutics
  Andrews Seminar in Ancient Jewish and                    Relations
                                                                                               Divinity


  Early Christian Studies; the Scripture and           Political
                                                                                                                                       Legal
                                                                                                                                      History
  Theology Conference), a monograph                    Science                 CSRP                               IBTH
                                                                                                                                    Reception
  series (Scripture and Theology MS), and                 Modern                                                                      History

  an MLitt programme (Biblical Languages                Languages
                                                                                                                                 Intellectual
                                                                       Social          World         Medieval                      History
  and Literature). The Institute has a                             Anthropology      Religions        Studies        Classics

  particular emphasis on PGR academic
  and professional development through                        Structure of disciplinary relationships
  collaborative enterprises. Permanent
  partners include the University of Zürich and the University of Regensburg, and we participate in
  a term collaboration (2016-22) for PGR and ECR development with the Centre for Jewish Studies
  at the University of Manchester. Nine staff and ≈20 PGR students are actively involved in the
  institute. Collaboration is central to the university’s strategic plan, and IBTH has recently received
  new strategic investment from the University to cultivate its activities in this regard (£9000 per
  annum).
  Logos: The award of a £1,600,000 grant enabled the foundation of a new interdisciplinary
  research institute in 2016, the Logos Institute for Analytical and Exegetical Theology. The
  Institute’s research projects and programmes bring philosophy into productive engagement with

                                                                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  systematic and analytic theology. The institute is a significant presence in the School, having
  three full-time Category A staff, two fractional staff (diversifying the Institute’s expertise), three
  research fellows, an MLitt programme, a bespoke research seminar, and a cohort of ≈20 PGRs.
  Considering its youth, Logos is already a significant presence in the international landscape.
  Both the Oxford Series of Analytic Theology and the Journal of Analytic Theology are under the
  chief editorship of Logos staff. Logos staff are also involved in significant impact and access
  activities. For example, institute staff have featured regularly on the PBS documentary series
  Closer to the Truth (see Section 4), and Logos staff developed one of our Impact Case studies
  (“Scientists in Congregations, Scotland”).
 International links and profile. The School has strong international ties and a prominent
 international profile. This is evidenced by our QS World Ranking, the number of international
 academic visitors to the School each year (120+ per annum), the number of countries from which
 we attract PGRs (29 at 31 July, 2020), the number of international research staff that we recruit
 (15 of 23 permanent Staff), and our commitment to funding international collaborations and visiting
 academics (roughly £200,000 per annum since 2016). Since REF2014, we have actively sought
 to translate our international connections into permanent collaborations for research, mobility, and
 PGR development (see Section 4), which supports the University’s strategic ambition ‘global St
 Andrews.’
 Impact and access activities. As a School, we have always been involved in public activities
 widening access to scholarship and delivering impact. Our strategy is bottom-up. Members of staff
 are encouraged to be entrepreneurial and pursue impact and access opportunities that flow
 naturally from personal research agendas, institute activities, and networks in which we
 participate. The result is that many of our initiatives are lasting, rooted in permanent structures
 and long-term projects. Also, our impact and access activities are considerably greater than can
 be reflected in our case studies. For example, we have cultivated six impact projects as possible
 REF2021 submissions, though only three were required from our UoA. All six projects—
 TheoArtistry, God Tied in Knots, Scientists in Congregations (Scotland), Declaration for a Shared
 Humanity, New Perspectives, and the Pilgrim Ways (‘Promoting Pilgrimage’ in REF2014)—have
 been supported by the University with investment of advice and expertise, and, where needed,
 with finance from the University’s and the School’s impact funds. Four of the six will continue
 beyond the REF-period, and two are permanent initiatives (TheoArtistry, Pilgrim Ways).
 The School’s Director of Impact (DoI) meets regularly with staff to help develop, coordinate, and
 facilitate impact and engagement activities. All researchers who are leading on an impact initiative
 (even if that initiative will not be submitted as a REF case study) serve on the School’s Impact
 Committee (IC). Committee members assist one another with current impact activities and
 developing REF case studies. The DoI and IC report directly to the School Council (made up of
 all staff members), where they invite staff to consider how their own activities might contribute to
 existing initiatives and to assist with securing funds for the development of new impact initiatives.
 (See section 3).
 Open Access (OA) and Research Integrity (RI). Our staff dedicate time to OA publications,
 place our publications in OA journals and with OA publishers, and deposit all article-length
 publications in PURE, a Green OA platform (ILES, 2.4). Five of our staff are editors on OA journals,
 and the new St Andrews Encyclopaedia of Theology (see 4C below) is entirely free to access.
 During the REF-period, our School has published over 80 monographs (edited and authored), and
 over 500 research articles and chapters. Of these, 59 are Gold OA (with Creative Commons
 Licences).
 The school’s ethics committee comprises six members of staff who scrutinise ethics applications
 from staff and students. The chair provides mandatory training in research ethics for all students
 (as the University does for staff) and assists those making ethics applications. All ethics
 applications are approved centrally and receive three rounds of scrutiny, before research activities
 can proceed.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 C. Research and impact: next five years. Over the coming five years, we will ensure that St
 Mary’s continues to be known for its outstanding research outputs and research projects, vibrant
 international research culture, robust intra- and interdisciplinarity, and impact and access
 initiatives. We plan to meet this ambition by maintaining the five aims described above. We do not
 believe that we can predict which research strands will be most ground-breaking or yield the
 greatest impact, and the freedom granted to our researchers reflects that belief. We will continue
 to champion the freedom of each academic to pursue the research questions and impact activities
 that she finds compelling. We do expect to further increase resources devoted to impact over the
 next REF-period, particularly as impact has become a vital part of our research activities.
 Due to our new research and impact projects in the domain, Science, Sustainability & Theology
 has become a significant research stream in the School, percolating through to the PGT and UG
 curriculums. The School is exploring the possibility of drawing the various stands of this research
 domain together into a centre.
 The arrival of new staff in the REF-period, creates new research strength in interreligious dialogue,
 an interest shared by new arrivals Schwöbel, Bosse, and S. Hyland with continuing staff Aguilar,
 Perry, J Wolfe, and Davila. This has already resulted in new collaborations (see 4A) and will
 continue to be an area of strategic action.


 Section 2. People
 Our objective is to enrich St Andrews’ international research culture by recruiting outstanding
 people for all positions and by cultivating a new generation of excellent researchers, empowering
 them to reach their full potential as researchers and professionals, by creating a diverse and
 inclusive research environment for all members of our academic community.

 A. Staffing strategy.
 St Mary’s has enjoyed a period of growth during the current REF-cycle. Since REF2014, we
 have added to our number of permanent staff (20→23), post-doctoral researchers (1→12), and
 teaching fellows (0→3). This growth has come as a result of an increase in PGT numbers (PGT
 ≈20→≈65), increase in grant capture, and the implementation of a strategic staffing policy.
 Regarding Category A staff, the School’s core strategy is that there should be at least four
 colleagues who can teach and train postgraduates in each of the disciplines. Four people in a
 discipline with their post-docs and PGR students creates a critical mass for a research culture. It
 is sufficient to sustain a research seminar in the discipline and to develop impact and access
 initiatives. Ideally, at least one person in a discipline will be at chair level to provide leadership in
 the recruitment and development of staff and PGRs.
 The School’s commitment to four people in each discipline does not require them all to be full-
 time. In some areas we have determined that fractional appointments best suit the School’s needs,
 particularly when developing new programs (e.g., MLitt in Sacred Music, MLitt in Analytical and
 Exegetical Theology), or during periods of transition within a discipline.

 B. Staff Appointments, Training, & Development
 Seminar culture & visiting scholars. Our school seminars are a vibrant part of the School’s life
 as a community of scholarship. Seminars provide key opportunities to extend our disciplinary
 knowledge, contest approaches and ideas, and explore intra- and interdisciplinary potentialities.
 We maintain five permanent seminars that are convened weekly during the semester: Theology;
 Biblical Studies (joint in the Autumn; split into ancient Judaism and early Christianity in the Spring);
 ITIA; Logos; and Religion & Politics. Our seminars feature presentations by scholars from other
 universities. In any semester the school may host 50 or more seminar speakers. Although
 numbers vary widely, roughly 6-12 staff and 15-30 PGRs attend each seminar.
 The School also regularly hosts Visiting Scholars for periods from one semester to two years. A
 VS is expected to contribute to a seminar and to the life of an Institute or Centre. As an act of
 service to the academy, the School provides each VS with office-space, IT, and library facilities.

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During this REF-cycle, we have benefitted from the presence of 29 VS. Two others have deferred
 until 2021-22 due to COVID-19.
 Appointments. We conduct an impartial and transparent process with all appointments (ILES,
 3.2). Gender balance and diversity awareness are critical considerations when the HoS invites
 staff to sit on appointment panels. For transparency and inclusion, all colleagues in the School
 have access to application portfolios during the process of shortlisting. Shortlisted candidates are
 invited to the School for an academic presentation and interview. Presentations by shortlisted
 candidates are open to all staff and PGRs. They are very well-attended. The attendees’
 assessments are collected and reported to the appointment committee before interviews.
 Our ability to attract exceptional researchers is reflected in the international makeup of applicants
 for every post. E.g., the last search for a permanent staff member included applicants from eight
 countries on three continents.
 New staff & early career researchers (ECRs). New permanent staff have an initial 4 year review
 period. In consultation with the HoS, new appointees set objectives for the review period. This
 process assures that targets are specific to each individual’s career stage, experience, and needs.
 Permanent status is confirmed at the successful conclusion of the review.
 The School supports the attainment of these aims by allowing new staff and ECRs a reduced
 teaching load, a light service requirement during their first year, and by providing new staff with a
 mentor who offers support, guidance, and advice. ECRs, in particular, are encouraged to become
 fellows in institutes and research centres to develop their professional and leadership skills:
 organising seminars and conferences, and collaborating on grant applications and projects. Two
 special mentoring schemes are available to ECR and female researchers (Teaching, Research &
 Academic Mentoring Scheme; Elizabeth Garrett Mentoring Programme).
 Our success in recruiting outstanding ECRs and fostering their professional development is
 attested by the fact that all but one staff member who completed terminal-contracts with us in the
 last 6 years have continued with us or moved on to permanent employment in the sector (15 of
 16).
 Professional development & promotion. Staff Reviews are conducted annually with the HoS
 allowing staff to reflect on progress since their last review, to plan future activities (in research,
 impact, development, and wellbeing), and to set new goals. In support of these efforts, two
 University centres—Organisational and Staff Development Services (OSDS), Centre for
 Educational Enhancement and Development (CEED) —offer a comprehensive portfolio of staff
 development opportunities, including more than 150 training courses in a typical year.
 The University’s annual promotions round is advertised centrally. The promotion policy was
 thoroughly revised in 2017 to give greater weight to impact and ED&I activities. The HoS offers
 guidance to staff considering an application for promotion. A completed application is forwarded
 with the HoS’s recommendation to the Arts & Divinity Promotion Panel. Clear criteria of
 achievement required at each rank are published on the university website, and University Court
 is responsible to assure that promotions are open, fair, and equitable in keeping with the
 university's ED&I Policy.
 There have been a number of promotions in the School since REF2014: 7 staff have been
 promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, 1 from Senior Lecturer to Reader, and 3 from Senior
 Lecturer or Reader to Professor (i.e., 36% of permanent staff).
 Research and impact leave & Deas fund. Research and impact leave (R&IL) is a crucial aspect
 of the University’s support for academic research and impact, particularly in the humanities where
 time is the most important research resource (ILES, 2.3). The School’s leave allocation model is
 one in which academic staff may reasonably expect to be granted 1 semester of leave after their
 first 8 semesters in post, and 1 semester in 7 thereafter. ECRs, though, receive their first semester
 of leave after their first 4 semesters in post. Applications for R&IL are reviewed by the HoS and
 the Research Committee and approved by the VP of Research.
 Category A staff may apply to the Deas Fund (a School endowment) for assistance with research
 and impact activities. About £20,000 is allocated to our staff from the fund each year.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 C. PGR training & supervision.
 We aim to recruit and train excellent PGRs, who can propel their discipline(s) and contribute richly
 to the academy and society. Our PGR community is provided with expert supervision, a rich
 seminar culture, robust exchange and training opportunities, dedicated study facilities, and
 mentoring. The School’s international reputation and the appeal of these provisions is evidenced
 by the number and nationalities of PhD students we recruit. We awarded 123.9 PhDs (FTE) during
 the REF-period, the majority of whom were international scholars.
 Supervision and mentoring. In our school, each PGR student is assigned a supervisor and a
 mentor. The supervisor has principal responsibility for supporting, guiding, and assessing the
 student’s thesis, academic skills, and professional development. The mentor’s role is pastoral,
 advising PGRs on matters of personal wellbeing that may not be directly related to their research
 projects.
 Supervision is taken seriously. The first year of PhD study is probationary. At the end, the student
 submits a research portfolio for review. Successful examination of the portfolio advances the
 student to full PhD status. Following the first year, the student’s progress and development are
 assessed at an annual review meeting with two members of staff (neither of whom is the
 supervisor or mentor). In addition to regular supervision meetings, within our school many
 supervisors meet with their PhDs as a group on a weekly or fortnightly basis. These meetings
 commonly are used for widening disciplinary knowledge and developing technical skills.
 There are robust resources available for personal support of PGRs from the University. Within the
 School, the postgraduate council serves as a mechanism for voicing and responding to PGR group
 needs, and our Wellbeing Officer invigilates systemic issues related to the health and wellbeing of
 our PGR community.
 Professional training. PGRs start their doctoral degrees with different research and transferable
 skills. First year PGRs undertake a compulsory Postgraduate Research Essentials training to
 make a smooth transition from Masters study or the workplace to PGR study. This training also
 covers research ethics and the ethics application process. At the beginning of each academic
 year, every PGR meets with their primary supervisor to draw up a plan for skills development. The
 plan considers linguistic competence, disciplinary knowledge, teaching and administrative skills,
 public engagement, and impact.
 Abundant professional development opportunities are provided by the School, some elective,
 some mandatory. The School has a robust seminar culture (described above). Seminars offer
 opportunities for networking and for PGRs to learn how to engage in academic debate as
 professionals. PGRs in their final year of study are offered the opportunity to present their research
 to the School in a seminar. PGRs are encouraged to serve as tutors in larger modules, both in the
 School and in other departments. One biennial conference—the St Andrews Symposium for Early
 Jewish and Christian Studies—and numerous occasional conferences are organised and
 managed by the School’s PGR students with guidance from relevant staff. PGR training in the
 School is coordinated by our Postgraduate Training Officer.
 The University offers a suite of professional development opportunities to PGRs through the
 GRAD-skills programme and provides funding for PGRs to undertake training in transferrable
 skills. Writing workshops are provided every semester. Four to ten semesters of study in eight
 languages are available to PGRs through the University’s evening language program at a charge
 of £110 per semester. Our School pays for one semester of language study for all our PGRs. The
 University Chaplaincy also provides professional development opportunities for PGRs considering
 entering or returning to ecclesial service.
 Dedicated study facilities are provided to all our PGR students (see Section 3), and several of our
 collaborations provide additional opportunities for disciplinary and professional training (Section
 4). On PGR-funding see Section 3.
 Evidence of training success: The success of our efforts with our PGR community is evidenced
 in their publication and employment records. During the REF-period, nearly 75% of our PGR


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students published in academic journals and collections before they graduated. Furthermore, 99%
 of our PGRs were in doctoral-level employment within six months of graduation.

 D. Equality, diversity, & inclusion (EDI).
 Since REF2014, the School has actively embedded structures and implemented new policies to
 promote EDI at all levels of the School. We have established an EDI officer and committee (EDIC)
 to develop policies and monitor their implementation (ILES, 3.1). The committee rotates by 1/3
 every year to ensure diversity and to expose more staff to in-depth discussions of EDI. The EDIC
 has an annual budget of £3000 with recourse to more should the opportunity or need arise. Of
 this, £2000 is specifically earmarked for an EDI Accessibility Fund to support staff and students
 for various projects/events that relate to EDI.
 The School has adopted the following permanent EDI policies, since 2014:
 • All meetings, teaching, and research seminars must be held during established core hours.
 • The UG School president and PG EDI representative must consult with her/his respective cohort
   about EDI issues prior to every EDIC meeting.
 • The School monitors and measures perceptions of EDI in the school with a school-wide survey
   every two years
 • All staff and PG teaching assistants are required to take face to face Unconscious Bias
   Training and EDI Training.
 • Expectations about good practice and zero tolerance of all forms of bias must be advertised to
   all staff and students at induction sessions, in handbooks, in modules, and posted in prominent
   locations across the school.
 • There must be a minimum 60/40 gender balance of speakers in all research seminars.
 • A gender mix is required on appointment committees.
 • Appointment processes must be transparent and proactive in the recruitment of persons from
   underrepresented groups.
 • Module reading lists must demonstrate diversity in gender, race, and religion even when
   balance is not possible.
 As part of the Action Plan for our successful Athena SWAN bronze award (2020), the School
 has committed itself to a full curriculum audit in 2021, as well as a recurring, school-wide
 conference on EDI as it relates to Divinity. The conference will take place every 2-3 years and
 will rotate between the sub-disciplines of the School.
 Gender. Divinity, unusually within the humanities, has a gender imbalance very similar to that of
 the physical sciences. Significant reports published by Durham University in 2014 and the British
 Academy in 2019 (Gender and Career Progression in Theology and Religious Studies; Theology
 and Religious Studies Provision in Higher Education) identified this as a sector-wide problem and
 explored reasons for it. Both reports identify the transition from undergraduate to PGR as key to
 this problem. The School has developed a range of activities to support women in the discipline
 and encourage them to consider careers related to Divinity. Founded in 2018, the bi-annual Smith
 Lectures bring a world-leading female scholar in the discipline to St Andrews to give a public
 lecture and to share their professional journey. The School also runs a mentoring scheme for UG
 female students who are considering PG study, and has launched a pilot mentoring programme
 for PGR women in the final years of their projects. Other activities are organised under the
 umbrella “Logia,” which hosts seminars and reading groups focused on outstanding women
 scholars, and conducts public interviews with visible female role models in its “fireside chats.”
 Logia also maintains Facebook and Twitter accounts for publicity and discussion and hosts a blog
 to provide visibility for academic women’s stories.
 In our REF preparation, we have sought gender balance in the review of outputs, and we have
 reflected regularly on the balance of attributed outputs in proposing the selections, and on the
 balance of participants in our ICSs.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our School has a more balanced gender distribution than in 2014 (was 10% female, now 27%).
 This is far from ideal but trending in the right direction. Our five-year Athena SWAN action plan
 commits us, amongst other things, to a 15% increase in female applicants for permanent posts, a
 40% increase in female applicants for research-only posts, a 10% increase in female applicants
 for PGT, and a 15% increase in female applicants for PGR.
 Disability & Carer support. The School maintains accessible teaching spaces in our ancient
 buildings. The University’s Disability Team in Student Services provides support for a wide range
 of disabilities such as learning difficulties, visual and hearing impairments, mobility difficulties,
 mental health, long standing medical conditions and much more.
 The School’s flexible working scheme allows employees to vary their working arrangements in
 flexible ways to accommodate disability, caring duties, or any other reasonable need. Employees
 may apply for a permanent change to their contract to accommodate more flexible working
 arrangements. Applications are made to the HoS and negotiated in consultation with HR. The
 University’s Caring Fund provides resources up to £1K per annum to cover alternative caring
 duties for staff to participate in research travel or development events.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 A. Income. The School increased its grant income from £537,993 in the last REF-cycle to
 £11,083,623 in this REF-cycle, attracting £9,100,850 from HESA-reported sources and another
 £1,982,773 from schemes not captured by HESA. (This excludes grants captured by fractional
 staff.) This achievement can be attributed to several causes: (a) a culture change away from the
 solo-researcher model, which has changed the size and scope of the grants that we pursue; (b)
 new impact initiatives that have attracted generous funding; (c) the long investment of our institutes
 in developing domains of interdisciplinarity that are increasingly valued and rewarded by funders.
 Our funders in the REF-period include (alphabetically): Arts and Humanities Research Council;
 Arts and Sciences Research Council; Biologos Foundation; Blankemeyer Foundation; British
 Academy; Carnegie Trust; Fulbright Commission; Fuller Science, Theology, & Religion
 Foundation; Fundación Milarepa Chile; Google Arts and Culture; Guggenheim Foundation; Japan
 Foundation Endowment; John Fell Foundation; John Templeton Foundation; Leverhulme Trust;
 List Fund for Jewish Studies; National Endowment for the Humanities; National Geographic
 Society; Royal Society of Edinburgh; Russell Trust; Templeton Religion Trust; and the Trent
 Foundation. Spend on HESA-reported awards was £3,032,718 during this REF-cycle, as most of
 the awarded money will be spent in the next cycle. Many of our funded projects have follow-on
 funding available, and decisions on several grants are still pending.
 Application development is assisted by the University’s Business Office and by the School’s DoR
 and Research Committee.
 Funded projects have generated 153 outputs (15 monographs, 20 collections, 118 articles and
 chapters) in the period, and grants have provided significant support to our ICSs, one of which
 was funded entirely by grant income (“Scientists in Congregations, Scotland”). The University’s
 Research Impact Team (ILES, 2.3) maintains a fund to support impact projects, which has
 invested £29,050 in our ICSs, and the School maintains a similar fund that has contributed another
 £20,000. Grant income dedicated to impact initiatives exceeds £750,000.
 PGR Funding. PhD funding has risen dramatically since REF2014. Considering HSEA-reported
 funders and University and School scholarships, the School had an average of 17 funded PGRs
 per academic year, between 2009-14. The funding secured for these students averaged £104,000
 per year. In the current REF-period, those numbers rose to an average of 37 PGRs and £253,000
 annually. In addition, many of our PhDs are funded by UK and foreign charities (e.g., Santander
 Scholarships; Bance di San Marino Foundation, AD Links). These increases can be attributed to
 new investment by the School and University in Scholarships, and by the School’s appointment of
 an officer who oversees and promotes PhD scholarship applications (Admission & Scholarship
 Officer).
 The School encourages research travel and conference attendance, to present research results.
 PGR students can apply for up to £1200 in assistance from the School annually. The University

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provides seed funding for PGR-lead conferences (GRADskills Innovation & PG Conference Fund),
 which the School will match, and the School independently entertains applications for funding of
 PGR-lead conferences.

 B. Infrastructure & facilities.
 The School of Divinity has had its home in St Mary’s College since the 16th century, the centre of
 which is St Mary's Quad. St Mary's Quad houses the School’s offices, teaching rooms, common
 rooms, and the King James Library. Staff offices are located in St Mary’s College and the Bute
 building (both on St Mary’s Quad). Much of the teaching in Divinity is conducted in our three lecture
 rooms and three seminar rooms. Research seminars are held in St Mary’s College Hall, an
 ancient wood-panelled hall housing the School’s portrait collection.
 The School of Divinity is justly proud of its study facilities for PGRs. Dedicated study space is
 provided in the Roundel, a seventeenth-century building overlooking the Cathedral precinct. This
 professional facility is open to Divinity PGRs at any hour. It provides a dedicated desk for each
 student on an equal basis as well as providing a common room, kitchens, office, garden, and
 toilets, all of which are maintained exclusively for Divinity PGRs and visiting scholars. PGR exit
 interviews indicate that the Roundel increases productivity, enhances students’ sense of
 community, and provides opportunities for interdisciplinary engagement.
 The King James Library houses an excellent collection of theological and biblical studies texts,
 particularly reference works, complementing the extensive holdings in the main University Library.
 It was built to house a gift of books by King James VI/I in 1612 and continues to be the main
 reading room for Divinity students. The University Library was a copyright deposit library until
 1837, so it has a particularly strong collection of 17th and 18th century books. There has been
 heavy investment in library holdings for Divinity in the REF-period. (£233,000 was spent on Divinity
 holdings within the REF-period, excluding journal subscriptions.) Humanities journals, which
 cannot be disaggregated by discipline, receive very heavy investment as well (e.g., £1,650,713.81
 in 2018-19). Special Collections have a large number of manuscripts and early printed works
 dating back to the 1th century, including some prize rare books such as a Gutenberg Bible and a
 full 1647 Amsterdam-edition of the Talmud Bavli, and particular collections with a Divinity focus
 (e.g., Baron von Hugel Collection). The School also curates the Driver Collection, a compendium
 of several hundred thousand hand-written articles and notes on Semitic philology, complied by
 S.R. Driver (Regius Professor of Hebrew, Oxford) and G.R. Driver (Professor of Semitic Philology,
 Oxford). Staff have access to unlimited inter-library loans, enjoy SCONUL access, and are
 supported by a dedicated liaison librarian.
 The School has also created pleasant and private spaces for breastfeeding/expressing in each of
 our buildings.
 Several of our impact activities utilise university infrastructure (e.g., the TheoArtistry festival held
 at the Byre Theatre), and the University’s Public Engagement office has assisted with all of
 them. Support for research and impact events as well as finance management is provided by the
 School’s permanent support staff, the Accommodation, Conferences, and Events office, and the
 Business Office. The School has an IT officer to deal with day-to-day needs. University IT
 provides equipment maintenance, AV support, and teleconferencing, as well as specialised
 website design and data management for research projects. IT in Divinity’s lecture rooms has
 been upgraded recently with new cameras, conferencing equipment, microphones, and lecture-
 capture software to assist with teaching delivery. Each member of staff is provided with a
 computer and unlimited printing campus-wide.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 School researchers play a leading role in shaping and sustaining the global research base in all
 the sub-disciplines of Divinity. Our collaborations and research networks stretch from East Asia to
 the Americas. Staff members enjoy reputations as leaders in their respective fields (proportionate
 with their career stage), where they hold preeminent positions in learned societies, on editorial



                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 boards and funding panels, organise major conferences, and receive frequent invitations for
 lectures, keynotes, and expert consultation to diverse governments and agencies.

 A. Collaborations
 The School partners in several major research collaborations and networks (ILES, 2.7). Some of
 these are based on grants. Others have developed organically from our relationships around the
 world. We have cultivated permanent links with institutions strategically selected to facilitate
 teaching & PGR mobility, PGR development, and research projects. These partnerships build on
 longstanding academic relationships and on the commitment of all partners to invest in the
 collaboration.
 Examples of collaborative research projects and networks. The Surveillance and Religion
 Network was initiated with the help of an AHRC grant (£29,011; 2016-19) and is organised in St
 Andrews. It is an international network of scholars and practitioners from the UK, Sweden,
 Canada, Ireland, the Netherlands, Israel, Japan, Poland, and Australia. To date, the network has
 convened three workshops in the UK, exploring religion and security, religions consuming
 surveillance, and religious ethics of surveillance. It has convened panels at the European
 Academy of Religion (2019) and the Surveillance Studies conference (2018). The major output of
 the network so far has been a special issue of the journal Surveillance and Society (2018). Network
 members consult with several governments on a variety of surveillance related issues (see
 Contributions to Society below).
 Texture: A Historical Poetics of Ancient Jewish Literature ($168,000.00; 2015-) is a joint research
 network by the St Mary’s and Harvard Divinity School (HDS) whose main funder is anonymous.
 Its objective is to recover and articulate an autochthonous poetics of ancient Jewish Literature.
 Texture has hosted 8 international workshops (2015-20) at St Andrews and Harvard inviting over
 thirty subject experts to consult. Eight PhD students at the two institutions have worked on facets
 of Texture in their theses. So far, the project has generated several article-length studies and a
 collaborative volume (Standards of (In)Coherence in Ancient Jewish Literature, 2020), anticipating
 a comprehensive methodology volume. The project is developing a major monograph series of
 the same name, Texture (pub. Mohr Siebeck).
 New Visions in Theological Anthropology: Engaging the Behavioural Sciences (£2,216,881.00;
 2019-) is a new 33-month project, which moves beyond the abstract warfare between science and
 religion and aims to create a culture within academic theology whereby it is normal, even expected,
 that theologians will use the results of scientific investigations as a resource for their thinking.
 Through a series summer workshops, day-conferences, syllabi competitions, new undergraduate
 courses, a monograph series, and a free online resource, New Visions will equip theologians and
 students with the necessary tools and skills to employ knowledge from the behavioural sciences
 within the domain of constructive theology.
 In 2019, a University-wide research cooperation was agreed between the University of St Andrews
 and the Rheinisch Friedrich Wilhelms Universität Bonn. Three research projects were chosen to
 inaugurate the collaboration, including the project Natural Law and the Definition of Good Order,
 directed by Profs Richter and Schmöckel (Bonn) and Profs Schwoebel and Wolfe (St Mary’s). The
 project includes two co-tutelles for PGR development and two international workshops. The
 project is co-funded by the University of St Andrews and the Excellence Program of the University
 of Bonn.
 There have been many other collaborative research initiatives in the School in the REF-period.
 These examples serve to illustrate the diversity of collaborators, topics, and methodologies that
 characterise our academic collaborations.
 Collaborations for mobility and postgraduate training. The School has developed permanent
 collaborations for staff and PGR mobility with 8 Universities: Baylor, Zürich, Leuven, Tübingen,
 Amsterdam, the Hebrew University Jerusalem, Regensburg, and Bonn (above and beyond our
 many Erasmus+ exchanges). Within the REF-period, 11 School staff and more than 20 PGRs
 have utilised these exchanges.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Institute for Bible, Theology, and Hermeneutics (IBTH) has established collaborations with
 several strategic partners to foster PGR disciplinary and professional development. For example,
 in alternate years IBTH organises a pair of week-long seminars for PGRs on major emerging
 themes in the fields of Bible, theology, and/or religious history in collaboration with the Theological
 faculty at the University of Zürich, with the aim of enhancing the employability of our graduates.
 Seminars are co-taught by staff from the two Universities. The goals of the collaboration are to
 widen and deepen PGR knowledge of emerging methodologies, topics, and research domains, to
 expose students to another research culture, and to stimulate collaborative research projects.
 Expenses for participating staff and PGRs and are covered by the collaborating departments.
 IBTH also maintains permanent collaborations with the University of Regensburg and the Hebrew
 University Jerusalem.
 The annual Logos Workshop, which takes place over three days, fosters important collaborative
 interaction between theologians, philosophers, ethicists, scientists, and sociologists on topics
 related to points of intersection between disciplines, and includes staff and PGR students on an
 equal basis. The workshop is a joint enterprise of the Logos Institute and the Centre for the
 Philosophy of Religion (CPR) at the University of Notre Dame. All the staff of Logos and CPR,
 including PGRs, participate in the workshop.
 An exchange programme between the Centre of Islamic Theology—University of Tübingen and
 the School of Divinity was agreed in 2019. It offers PGRs of Islam the opportunity to study Christian
 theology in St Andrews, and students of Christianity the chance to study Islamic theology in
 Tübingen. The exchange developed from the long-standing collaborations between Prof Lejla
 Demiri (Tübingen) and Prof Christoph Schwöbel (St Andrews), who have conducted numerous
 seminars on Scriptural and Doctrinal Reasoning at the University of Tübingen and established a
 similar series of seminars for this collaboration. (The first was scheduled for April 2020, but it was
 postponed to 2021 due to COVID-19.)
 These examples are characteristic of the PGR-focused collaborations in our school, which are
 occasional and intensive. There are, in addition, many regular opportunities for PGRs to engage
 with international scholars, described in Section 2 above.

 B. Contributions to the research base & markers of esteem
 Our staff shape and sustain the subdisciplines of Divinity in many ways. Regular acts of service
 include permanent or term positions on editorial boards of journals and monograph series, on
 panels for research councils, and sitting on professional society boards and executive committees.
 School staff also contribute time and energy to the research base through many singular efforts
 like serving as external assessors on promotion committees, refereeing monograph proposals and
 journal articles, and examining PGR students at other universities.
 Research base. More than three-quarters of the School’s academic staff give their time and
 energy to 57 editorial roles on the boards of international peer-reviewed journals and monograph
 series. Among the journals we edit are prestigious outlets like (alphabetically): Catholic Biblical
 Quarterly, International Journal of Systematic Theology, Journal for the Study of the New
 Testament, Journal of Analytic Theology, Journal of Biblical Literature, Journal of Theological
 Studies, Neue Zeitschrift für Systematische Theologie, and The Byron Journal. The monograph
 series are no less significant and include, for example, Collegium Metaphysicum (Mohr Siebeck),
 Enquiries in Theological Ethics (Bloomsbury), Mundus Orientis (V&R), Oxford Bible Commentary
 (OUP), Oxford Studies in Analytic Theology (OUP), Palgrave Frontiers in Philosophy of Religion,
 Routledge Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Biblical Criticism, SOTS Monograph Series (CUP),
 T&T Clark Studies in English Theology, Theologische Bibliothek (Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht), and
 Theologische Bibliothek Töpelmann (de Gruyter).
 During this REF-period, staff members have served as committee members on ten different grant
 schemes in the UK, Germany, Canada, and the United States, with funders like the AHRC,
 Carnegie Trust, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
 Humanities, and Sir John Templeton Foundation. Many of our staff serve as advisors on specific
 funded projects for a wide range of funders, public and private.


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to the research base through acts of service like serving on promotion committees,
 reviewing monographs and journal articles for publishers, sitting on professional society boards,
 and examining PGR students at other universities are far too numerous to catalogue here.
 Esteem. Since 2014, our staff have been invited to give hundreds of academic presentations,
 plenary, and keynote addresses at other academic institutions and international conferences. The
 following is a selection of some of the more exceptional markers of reputation and esteem that our
 staff have received from 2014-20.
 Corbett received the Società Dantesca Italiana Bronze Medal (2015). Evans was co-winner of the
 Martin Institute of Christianity and Culture Research Award (2018). Lamb was named Dietrich von
 Hildebrandt scholar (2020). For his first monograph, Lang received the Lautenschlager Prize for
 Theological Promise (2015). Schwöbel was presented with a Festschrift (Rationalität im
 Gespräch—Rationality in Conversation, 2016). Wolfe was elected to the Edith Stein Circle (2019)
 and invited to take up an Alan Richardson Fellowship (2020). Wright was presented with the British
 Academy Burkitt Medal for Biblical Studies (2014), became a Fellow of the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh (2015), and was awarded three honorary doctorates in the period.
 Eight of our staff were invited to deliver named lectures between 2014 and 2020: Corbett the
 Religion and Literature Lecture at University of Notre Dame (2018); Crisp the Herold OJ Brown
 Lectures (Reformed Theological Seminary; 2015) and the Murray Lecture (Crandall University;
 2018); Evans and Rae the Sophia Forum Lectures (2017 and 2019); Rea the William Alston
 Lecture (Syracuse University; 2016); Holmes the Day-Higginbotham Lectures (Southwest Baptist
 Theological Seminary; 2020); Stoddart the Sydney Martin Memorial Lecture (2019); Wolfe the
 Thurber Lectures (2017); and Wright the Greer-Heard Lectures (2017) and the Gifford Lectures
 (Ancient Universities of Scotland; 2018).

 C. Contributions to society.
 As a School, we have always been committed to sharing the fruits of our research open-handedly.
 We encourage initiatives and projects that widen access, share our expertise, and effect change
 outside of the university. We support these activities through investments of time, energy, and
 resources (see 3A above). As such, we have developed and maintain diverse relationships with
 beneficiaries. Some are organic, like relationships with religious organisations and communities,
 some have been cultivated through impact activities. Others, like consultations with government
 agencies, are more occasional.
 Widening access. As a result of the global resurgence of religion and the waning of exclusive
 secularism, theology is once again a vital interlocutor within the public sphere. Because of this,
 many of our staff are involved in activities that widen access, disseminating research across
 national, geographic, and economic boundaries: through guest appearances on radio shows and
 blogs, magazine articles, editorials for the news media, public talks at museums, galleries, and
 festivals, and so on. The following are just a few of our access endeavours.
 The School of Divinity is building a free-to-access, online encyclopaedia of theology, a rigorous
 academic resource whose style and clarity of organisation will ensure its usefulness to research
 students and professional academics alike. The free status of the Encyclopaedia will be of
 particular relevance in the majority world. The St Andrews Encyclopaedia of Theology is funded
 (so far) by grants worth £3,523,924 (2019-).
 The James Gregory Public Lectures on Science, Religion, and Human Flourishing (2016-2021) is
 a series of twenty-six public lectures (funded by the John Templeton & Blankemeyer Foundations),
 bringing world-class scholars to St Andrews to present cutting-edge perspectives on the
 relationship of faith and science to non-specialists. Lectures are free, open to the public, and
 streamed live. The series is just one of the activities related to our impact case Scientists in
 Congregations, Scotland.
 Several members of our staff and two of our institutes maintain blogs that report and analyse
 advances in research. Of these, Prof Davila’s widely read blog PaleoJudaica (≈60,000 visitors per
 month) is dedicated to disseminating new discoveries and scholarly proposals in the study of
 Jewish antiquity. The multiple award-winning blog Transpositions (≈30,000 visitors each month)

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was founded in 2010 by ITIA PGRs with the goal of bringing academic conversations about
 theology and art to a broad audience. Transpositions publishes posts by notable artists,
 practitioners, and scholars, offers various features, and reports news related to theology and the
 arts.
 Nine of our staff have appeared on the PBS television programme Closer to Truth to debate
 questions on nature, philosophy, and religion (e.g., episodes 1808, 1813, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1912,
 1913). Schwöbel writes a regular column for Zeitzeichen, the largest monthly on theology and
 religion in Germany.
 Additional Impact initiatives. Our Impact case studies offer descriptions of three of our impact
 initiatives, engaging with a wide spectrum of key users including religious communities,
 governments, teachers and students. The following are two additional examples of our impact
 initiatives:
 Pilgrim Way is an ongoing heritage project (1999-present) that re-establishes and promotes
 medieval pilgrim routes in Scotland. So far, the project has restored two major pilgrim routes, from
 Edinburgh to St Andrews (St Andrew’s Way) and from Iona to St Andrews (St Columba’s Way),
 and assisted the Iona community in restoring and expanding the routes on and around Iona (St
 Magnus’ Way). Speaking just of the St Andrew’s Way, Murdo Fraser MSP reported to Scottish
 parliament: “The estimated total benefit from those pilgrim routes to St Andrews is due to rise from
 approximately £1.5 million today around £2.5 million in five years’ time” (11/6/19). Historic
 Scotland, Historic Environment Scotland, Pax Travel, British Pilgrimage Trust, Fife Countryside,
 Fife Coast and Countryside Trust, and the Scottish Pilgrim Routes Forum have all partnered with
 us in this project.
 The Declaration for a Shared Humanity, written by Professor Mario Aguilar, incorporates the
 teachings of different faiths and embraces the basic principles of humanity, equality, diversity and
 freedom. The document has been adopted by religious and political leaders around the world. The
 signing ceremony held in St Andrews (23/09/2016) was attended by a delegation of 130 religious
 leaders from 19 countries joined by secondary students from Fife and Canada and accompanied
 by a conference on inter-religious dialogue. The Declaration has been used by schools,
 communities, and faith groups to form discussion and foster the idea of a common humanity as a
 tool against radicalisation and for inter-faith cooperation.
 Expert advice. Our staff are always available to provide expert advice to various organisations
 and do so regularly. For example: Aguilar has advised the British Crown Court on matters of
 asylum. Holmes consults with the Baptist Missionary Society on domestic violence. Stoddart has
 offered expert advice to the House of Commons, House of Lords, and Scottish parliament on
 surveillance and public trust. Wolfe is a member of the Roman Curia’s commission for Jewish
 Christians, and Tooman was lead assessor for Ofqual on the accreditation of new A-level and
 GCSE exams in Biblical Hebrew.




                                                                                             Page 14
