Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview: Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art and Design (DJCAD) is one of ten academic
Schools within the University of Dundee (UoD). Founded in 1881, DJCAD became part of the
University in 1994. It has a well-established research environment, community and culture that is
fully aligned to the Unit of Assessment in Art and Design (UoA32). Our submission comprises
45.45FTE Category A staff (44.5FTE, REF2014), including an independent researcher (Leuzzi)
and two Architecture colleagues (Holm, Berdos) with related research from the School of Social
Sciences. Six Category B staff are included in the submission, reflecting a period of change and
renewal during the census period. Our outputs include artefacts, exhibitions, publications, software
and multi-component outputs, with 37 (33%) outputs identified as interdisciplinary.

Context & Structure of UoA32: The UoA32 research community and strategy is led by the
DJCAD Associate Dean Research (ADR, Colvin) who reports both to the Vice-Principal Research
(VPR) at University level and the Dean of School (Taylor A). The ADR is a member of the School
Senior Executive Group (SEG) comprising the Dean, School Manager, five Associate Deans:
Learning & Teaching, Quality & Academic Standards, Internationalisation, Research, Public and
Community Engagement. Research-led teaching and learning is delivered across four Discipline
Groups - Contemporary Art Practice, Communication Design, Design & Craft, Social Digital - with
c1300FTE students enrolled on ten Undergraduate programmes, six Taught Postgraduate
programmes and Research Degrees in Art, Design and related subjects supported by 65FTE
academic staff. Research is undertaken across all of these Discipline Groups, with interdisciplinary
research and teaching a distinctive feature of our provision. Art, Design, and Architecture are co-
located within the Matthew Building, and work closely together in research and teaching delivery.

Research & Impact Strategy: The University’s core purpose is to transform lives locally and
globally through the creation, sharing and application of knowledge. The Strategy to 2022
emphasises the mutuality of research, teaching, and knowledge exchange and the creation of a
high-performance community committed to excellence, integrity, valuing people, working
together, and making a difference in the wider world. Interdisciplinary research is focussed within
four thematic, challenge-oriented priorities - Health and Wellbeing, Creativity and Design,
Innovative Technologies and Social Justice – that maximise our institutional impact on the UN
Sustainable Development Goals (20th worldwide, 2019). The organisational structure of the
University fosters and facilitates both specialist and interdisciplinary research, teaching, and public
engagement that make positive and transformational impacts on our communities, our partners,
and in wider society. UoA32 contributes significantly to University achievements, with projects such
as GROW (Woods), the Cooper Gallery programmes (Hao), and the partnership with V&A
Dundee contributing to the University becoming Scotland’s first university (third in the UK) to
receive a Gold Watermark from the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE,
2020), and recognition in the Times Higher Impact Rankings (2020) as being in the top 10 UK
institutions (44th globally).

In keeping with the University values and aims, UoA32 research fosters life-enhancing creativity,
innovative design and technologies, and promotes societal and cultural transformation to enhance
social justice, diversity and socio-economic prosperity. We aim to develop and sustain influential
and impactful research that addresses fundamental issues of our time, through the contribution of

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
art and design and in interdisciplinary spheres. Together with influential industry, research, civic
and community partners, we aim to deliver ‘real world’ change by devising and developing
innovative solutions for local, national, and global beneficiaries. Our aim is to demonstrably make
lives better by identifying and addressing societal, civic, cultural and economic challenges through
art and design in innovative, ethical and sustainable ways. This is achieved through impactful
research, a research-engaged portfolio of academic programmes that foster the generation of new
knowledge and understanding at the heart of learning, and our industry, and public engagement
that reflects the intrinsic nature of our research and innovation to everyone we work and engage
with. An open and inclusive research environment allows for a diverse range of researchers to
generate new insights and understanding into key issues of the 21st Century.

REF2014 Strategy: Implementation, Achievements & Impact: The plans and aspirations stated
in the REF2014 submission focused on the development of a permanent research and knowledge
exchange agency as an engine for economic growth in Scotland via the progression of plans for
Design in Action and V&A Dundee; development of new and existing external partnerships with
Dundee City Council, Dundee Contemporary Art, V&A Dundee and Dundee’s creative cluster, and
closer integration with Engineering, Computing, Forensics, Life Science and Medicine within the
University. Visualisation of Big Data and user-centred products and services were identified as key
growth research areas for our 3D visualisation, digital products, and service design research
groups; along with the establishment of an Art/Science Research Programme with the School of
Life Sciences. Sustained investment in academic research posts and the development and
retention of PDRAs supported these aims and underpinned a period of successful consolidation,
ambitious development, and extensive impact.

The flagship research programme Design in Action, a £5M AHRC-funded Knowledge Exchange
Hub for the Creative Economy (led by Follett, 2012-2017) played a vital role in Dundee’s
designation as the first UNESCO City of Design in the UK (2014) and was pivotal to securing the
development of V&A Dundee as the first V&A Museum in the world outside of London, opening to
the public in 2018. Designed by Kengo Kuma as the centrepiece of a £1B waterfront development,
Scotland’s first design museum delivers and provides world-class research and resources in
Scottish design heritage, innovative design and curatorial practice. Two full-time DJCAD
appointments are seconded to V&A Dundee, a Curator (More/Maxwell) and the Research Manager
(Ballie) of the V&A Dundee Design for Business programme. This programme is delivered with
Scottish Enterprise and industry experts in design thinking, realising the aim of a permanent
research and knowledge exchange engine for economic growth in Scotland and is further
complemented by our own MSc Design for Business programme (led by Latter). University-wide
liaison groups, convened by the DJCAD Associate Dean for Public and Community Engagement,
ensure collaborative planning, programming and communication across all strands of the
University partnership, and University representation on the V&A Dundee Board (Design Dundee
Ltd, Taylor A) ensures contribution to governance and strategic direction. The exhibitions
programme has included Hands of X (Pullin, 2019), Sewing Box for the Future (Ballie, 2020), and
Now Accepting Contactless (2020) featured our collaborative NHS-Industry-Community-University
PPE design and production project, highly commended in the Go Awards Scotland COVID-19
Outstanding Response Award.

Our aim for Visualisation of Big Data and development of user-centred products and services
concentrated on industry collaboration and R&D, and realised significant outcomes through visual
communication of real-world data and stories in interdisciplinary contexts: i) The 3DVisLab worked
on significant projects (to the value of £3.2M) with national and international Government
departments, EU projects, research councils, and industry partners over the period and continues

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to flourish with national and international demand for its methods of visualisation in a range of
spheres including subsea visualisation, detecting terrorist activity, health settings, climate change,
heritage settings and immersive cultural events and experiences. ii) The AHRC-funded
InGAME (Innovation for Games and Media Enterprise, (£11.5M, 2018-23) is an R&D Centre led by
a consortium of Abertay (lead), Dundee and St Andrews Universities with local and international
industry partners that supports product, service and experience innovation across the Dundee
Games Creative Cluster as a model for UK-wide games sector innovation with Co-Investigators
from DJCAD (Head, Taylor A., Valentine, Vaughan) as well as the Schools of Humanities
(Livesey) and Business (Beech); iii) The OpenDoTT and Internet of Things Studio (Rogers) was
established as a ten-year collaboration with leading internet non-profit Mozilla (awarded €1.5M,
with University income of £110K); Rogers was seconded to Mozilla in Berlin for 3 years (2016-19,
£283K) to advocate for a more trusted, and safe, Internet of Things (IoT) and to develop a large
international community of professionals with expertise relating to technology, design and policy;
iv) The Living Digital Group (Moncur, total income £651K) carried out research into lived
experience in the digital age, focussing on online identity, reputation, trust and cybersecurity with
industry partners such as Microsoft (funded 3-year PhD Scholarship £75K), Royal Bank of
Scotland, Government Office for Science, Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats
(CREST).

A pioneering Science-Art Research Gallery and Residency Programme, LifeSpace, was
established in collaboration with the School of Life Sciences in their new building (2014). LifeSpace
was cited as ‘evidence of excellent practice in public engagement in exploiting the intersection of
art and science’ in the School of Life Science’s Faculty Gold Watermark Award from the NCCPE in
2017. It provided a vital impetus and resource for the development of a new collaborative MFA Art,
Science and Visual Thinking, approved in 2019/20. The Visual Research Centre relocated from
Dundee Contemporary Arts (DCA) in 2018 to the DJCAD Matthew Building and was reimagined
to form an expanded DJCAD Research Hub at the heart of the Art, Design and Architecture
provision and as a centre for all UoA32 research. The Global Centre for Art, Design and
Innovation (GCADI), a partnership with Sichuan Fine Art Institute (SFAI) was initiated to develop a
joint Innovation Centre in Dundee and Chongqing (2019).

The research environment, culture and community has seen investment and consolidation through
the cultivation of partnerships, thematic research groupings and critical mass to grow and ensure
our impact in local, national and international contexts from our disciplinary base of Architecture,
Contemporary Art Practice, Communication Design, Design & Craft, Social Digital. During
the period, the six research centres identified in REF2014 were reviewed with the aim of
consolidation and sustainability, enabling trans-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary research with
permeable boundaries across disciplines, providing connective networks for all of our researchers,
with PhD students aligned.

   •   Interdisciplinary Design and Innovation brought together Design in Action and Design
       for Services with other interdisciplinary design research including Design for Business;
       Disability, Design and Culture; Design for Health; Sustainable Design, Materials &
       Innovation; Creative Economies. [Ballie, Bruce, Cook A, England, Ferraro, Follett,
       Gault, Glazzard, Pullin, Latter, Lim, O’Neill, Woods, Wilson, Valentine, Vones]

   •   People, Landscape and Environment brings together a community of researchers
       undertaking Environmental Art & Design Practices including Architecture and Urban
       Planning; the Centre for Remote Environments; Citizen Science & Environmental
       Monitoring; and projects engaging with and reflecting upon climate change, sustainability of

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       landscape and place. [Braham, Berdros, Dalziel, Dunlop, Faithfull, Hemment,
       Holm, Milligan, Modeen, Scullion, Shemilt, Woods]

   •   Secure Digital Futures includes 3D Imaging & Visualisation (3DVisLab); Digital Products
       & Futures; Living Digital Group; Open IoT Studio; and has increased our capacity for
       visualisation of Big Data and user-centred products and services that address
       environmental, archaeological, medical, scientific, and security-related challenges.
       [Alessandrini, Baxter, Body, Head, Moncur, Rogers, Rowland, Skelly, Taylor N, Thomas,
       Watterson]

   •   Visual Practice, Curation and Critique expanded the Archives & Curation research
       centre to include individual and collaborative research projects through a range of
       Contemporary Art Practices; Media, Culture and Critical Theory; Curation, Collections and
       Archives; Identity, Voice, Society. [Bodor, Colvin, Eyres, Fagen, Fusco, Gorrill, Hao,
       Harrison E, Harrison P, Herd, Keay, Kovats, Lockhart, Lushetich, McArthur, Myles,
       Notaro, Partridge, Peter, Plummer, Spence, Taylor A, Vaughan, Watson, Wood]

Open Research: UoA32 is proactive in encouraging an open research culture in keeping with the
San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and open access publication funding
is available through central funds managed by the Library and Learning Centre (LLC). UoA32
researchers actively participate in events hosted by the Library during Open Access Week where
topics include open FAIR research practices and measuring impact through non-citation-based
metrics. Library liaison staff also provide in-house training regarding the creation of researcher
profiles via the Discovery Research Portal. The Unit goes above and beyond the REF Open
Access policy by supplying draft versions of books and chapters to the LLC, who liaise with
publishers to make them open access via the green route where possible and coordinate the
Discovery website where all research within the University is made outwardly accessible, cross-
linked with ORCID and SCOPUS. DOIs are also routinely assigned to ‘grey literature’ such as
reports and online toolkits, again, ensuring greater access and re-use. DJCAD actively promotes
Open Data, developing Open Platforms and Tools that promote analysis, sharing, and
management of research data and has made significant projects with large data-sets available in
this way. The Grow Observatory ‘WeObserve’ data sets were assigned DOIs and CC-BY licenses,
enhancing online discovery and increased openness through MOOC learning platforms. This
included offering a £5K prize for best data re-use within the citizen sensing community to
encourage this. DJCAD facilitates access upon request for its archives and collections, where
ownership of artworks lies with the artists or their estates (Demarco Archives, MacLennan
Archives).

Research Integrity: The University’s Research Governance and Policy Sub-Committee ensures
appropriate governance and policies for research conduct. An easy-to-use ‘policy roadmap’ guides
Principal Investigators and research staff to the policies that govern particular research activities.
School-level Research Integrity Leads (Moncur, Dunlop) are responsible for promoting a culture of
research integrity within the School, and act as an independent and impartial source of advice for
staff and students on the responsible conduct of research. The DJCAD Research Ethics
Committee (Chair, Wilson) promotes and maintains standards of ethical practice and respect for
research participants. An active peer-review process for research ethics applications from
undergraduate module leaders, PGR and TPG students and staff ensures GDPR compliance,
makes decisions within three weeks, and reports to the University Research Ethics Committee.
Annual training in research ethics is held to ensure all active researchers are up-to-date and aware
of best practice.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Future Research Plans and Impact Strategy 2021-2026: Over the next period, we will continue
to sustain and develop a coherent and vibrant programme of leading and influential research in
collaborative and interdisciplinary contexts. This includes a significant body of research in and
through creative practice disseminated through the origination of artefacts, exhibitions, immersive
experiences, publications, software and citizen-science initiatives. Our aim is to be recognised as a
compelling academic incubator for research and industry with both local partnerships and global
reach across industry, professional and government sector bodies, nationally and internationally.

The continuing development and consolidation of our core strengths in research and innovation in
Art and Design will be reflected in the evolution of research centres and groups, designed to
extend and integrate external partnerships, generate funded projects, and align with the
development of our postgraduate community and provision. The implementation of our Taught
Postgraduate Portfolio Review (2019/20) will lead to a revitalised postgraduate offer, reflecting
disciplinary strengths, enhancing progression to research degrees and/or employment and
supporting the creative and cultural industries through provision of relevant qualifications including
upskilling, micro-credentials, a Professional Doctorate, continuing professional development as
well as research and innovation, and knowledge exchange.

Investing in our people will mean recruiting and developing outstanding talent at all stages of
research careers, nurturing a talent pipeline from early career researchers to a world-leading
professoriate. Along with investment in infrastructure, and physical and virtual resources to ensure
opportunities for colleagues to co-create and collaboratively generate new ideas in an effective,
connected, supportive, critically reflective and vital community. We will continue to contribute and
be informed by participation and leadership in national and international debates with research
agencies, councils, and peers. We will continually review our plan to contribute ideas, applications
and bids for research funding. Impact will be achieved, monitored and measured via a range of
mechanisms supported by the ambitious public and community engagement, and knowledge
exchange and innovation agendas of the University, that are realised through projects,
programmes and events, co-created with our partners and participants to achieve outcomes with
impact for our beneficiaries.

Over the next five years our priorities are to:

1) Deepen and extend our capacity for knowledge exchange and innovation by: i) Investing in
our research partnership with V&A Dundee to achieve the national and global potential of Design
for Business and generate new interdisciplinary projects that focus on the creative and cultural
economies and ecologies in the city and beyond; ii) Review the strategy for the Global Centre for
Art, Design and Innovation to ensure a sustainable and impactful plan as a global innovation hub in
the context of new ways of working post-pandemic; iii) Develop and deploy our knowledge
exchange, R&D, and commercialisation strategy, catalysed by the appointment of an industry
leader as our first Entrepreneur-in-Residence in 2021 supported by the University Research &
Innovation Services.

2) Invest in our strategic research initiatives by i) Building on our achievements, resources,
track record in Collections, Archives & Curation to enhance and co-locate resources to ensure they
are both public-facing and at the heart of the DJCAD provision as vital learning and research
resources; delivering further investment on our AHRC Collections and Capability Award;
implementing TPG Upskilling modules, short courses and CPD in collaboration with our local,
national and international cultural partners; ii) Establishing a trans-disciplinary Centre for Drawing

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
that builds upon our substantial practice, curation, collections and published resources (including
the Trinity Buoy Wharf Drawing Prize Project) and growing critical mass of drawing researchers
along with expertise across the University in forensics, engineering, medicine and education; iii)
Building on our research in the creative economies, architecture, placemaking, urban planning, the
UNESCO Creative City of Design designation and participatory civic culture, to establish a multi-
disciplinary research centre or project that focusses on creative publics, creative cities and their
ecologies; iv) Continuing to build the capacity of the 3DVisLab as a major strategic initiative to
ensure sustained success and succession planning; v) Establishing a dedicated studio/lab to
expand design practices for disabled clients and healthy ageing and build on this and other
initiatives (including the MSc Design for Health) to scope and develop a Design for Health
Innovation Centre with the School of Medicine by 2025.

3) Continue to develop our research community by investing in researchers at all levels,
support staff, PDRAs and funded doctoral candidates. A key aim is to enhance our research
capacity and profile through recruitment and to diversify the research community, including the
attraction of funding to address this strategic priority. This currently includes plans to secure a
PDRA for the Black Atlantic Research Dundee (BARD) group and a joint appointment of a BAME
Curatorial Research Fellowship for Cooper Gallery in partnership with the Scottish National Gallery
of Modern Art during 2021/22.

4) Continue to develop and implement research and enterprise informed Taught
Postgraduate programmes as the outcome of the 2019/20 Taught Postgraduate Review, thereby
growing the postgraduate community and enhancing and increasing progression to Research
Degree study, early career roles and/or employment across Art and Design through new
programmes such as Curatorial Practice in Art & Design and Drawing.

 2. People

Since 2014, DJCAD has developed research capacity by investing in researchers at all levels
(Professors, Readers, Senior Lecturers and Lecturers, Fellows, Early Career Researchers, Post-
Doctoral Research Assistants, PhD students). Throughout the period, the School recruitment and
retention strategy has been to: i) consolidate established research strengths aligned to its current
and developing academic portfolio; ii) expand the scope of collaborative projects with industry and
international partners; iii) make appointments that further interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary
research; iv) ensure equity and equality of opportunity for those applying for all roles and
studentships. This strategy has been pursued through the appointment of Early Career
Researchers and the recruitment of key experienced senior staff to enhance activity, provide
leadership, and to ensure succession planning for a vibrant and vital research community integral
to a vibrant academic offer.

In the REF2014 submission, it was noted that the staff demographic had an ageing profile with few
Early Career Researchers. Subsequently, there were four retirees and ten long-serving staff
members moved elsewhere (Alessandrini, Cook, Hemment, Moncur, Partridge, Robertson,
Rogers, Taylor N, Thomas, Valentine). In 2014, the University invested in a number of Dundee
Fellows with the aim of stimulating new areas of research; DJCAD benefitted from five full-time
appointments who successfully developed research capacity and significant outcomes (Myles) and
academic career trajectories and established new strategic initiatives such as LifeSpace (Cook). In
2020, the Dundee Fellows scheme was renewed with a focus on recruiting and identifying early
career researchers with the potential for an accelerated academic career trajectory and two Baxter


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fellows (Bodor, England) were appointed in strategic areas of growth in Art and Design (Creative
Economies, Curatorial Practice) as part of a University-wide cohort.

Reflecting UoD’s commitment to sustain a critical mass of world-leading art and design research
and practice, five Professors (Fusco, Head, Kovats, Lushetich, Taylor A) were externally
recruited to UoA32, augmenting five internal promotions to Chair (Fagen, Modeen, Pullin, Wilson,
Woods) during the assessment period. This significant professorial investment has substantially
strengthened research capacity, bringing further new expertise in Drawing and Making, Fine Art,
Interdisciplinary Theory, Interdisciplinary Writing, 3D Visualisation. A further 20 academic staff on
Teaching and Research contracts were appointed in 2019/20. This included a number of ECR’s
(Baxter, Cook A, Eyres, Gault, Hao, Herd, Lockhart, Nevay, Skelly, Watterson) of whom five
were former PhD students (Cook A, Nevay, Baxter, Gault, Herd) and PDRA’s (Baxter,
Watterson) in keeping with the 2014-20 strategy. An increase in funded projects has enabled
appointments of PDRAs, two new Professional Services Administrative staff to support PhD
students, as well as an increase of six Technical Support staff who enhance and support this
research community.

The research community is augmented by a number of honorary roles appointed for renewable
three-year periods and aligned to research projects. Honorary Research Fellows include Iain Biggs
(People, Landscape, Environment), Stephen Farthing RA (Drawing), Elena Hill (Healthy Ageing),
Gary Sangster (Elastic Space) and Honorary Professors include the Director of V&A Dundee,
Wendy Moncur (Living Digital) and Jon Rogers (OpenDott) on leaving UoD, retaining involvement
with Secure Digital Futures research. Visiting Researchers included a Leverhulme Visiting
Professor (Dr Alasdair Foster, 2018), Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Dr Emile Shemilt,
2014), Fulbright Scholars (Angelique Szymanek, 2019/20; Jessica Dandona, 2018/19; Nicole
Jacquard, 2017/18; Jan Johnson, 2015/16; Peter Christensen, 2014/15).

DJCAD actively builds research community through lunchtime talks, a bi-monthly forum for
debating research agendas and presenting research in progress. Sessions capitalise on visiting
international researchers and offer an open environment where senior and junior staff; PDRAs and
PhD researchers can present future research directions and gain feedback. There is an additional
institutional forum (Committee for Development of Research Staff) for PDRAs, which is delivering
the revised Concordat agenda for developing the research and professional careers of research
assistants. An Annual Research Away Day and exhibition informs staff about the research
landscape, provides an opportunity to deliver papers and exposition, and supports ECRs, PDRAs
and PhD students to situate their work.

Maintaining and Developing Research Excellence: Research excellence is monitored through
the Annual Research Review (ARR) process overseen by the University VPR and managed locally
by ADR’s. The ARR is designed to evaluate quality and drive expectations in relation to the quality
of outputs, grant funding and the shaping of future research plans. Reviews of individual outcomes
and plans are undertaken by at least three peers against set criteria and discussed at a specially
convened panel chaired by the ADR. The outcomes inform recommendations to the Dean of
School guiding discussions about staff workloads for the coming academic session. Staff returning
from maternity leave or illness, and staff contributing to research projects in a supporting role, are
allocated research time as appropriate.

This provides a transparent variable balance of duties allocation model between teaching, research
and other duties, based on the qualitative annual peer review and a quantitative analysis of
research activity and income generation. Formal workload allocation modelling (WAM) takes place

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in a line-management cascade from the School Executive through research group leaders via the
annual Objective Setting and Review (OSaR) process.

All research-oriented staff are allocated a minimum of 30% research time, with further percentages
allocated to Principal or Co-Investigators leading large projects up to a maximum of 70% research
time in their contract. Research leave is available for all research staff and granted upon
application to the ADR who makes a recommendation to the Dean and VPR. Research leave may
be for short or longer periods, and most commonly for a few weeks or a semester. Research Leave
schemes from the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust (Colvin), Royal Society of Edinburgh are
supported and matched by UoD (for instance, Rogers, three-year secondment to Mozilla). Training,
research goals, projects, staff development, and other duties are agreed, as well as the allocation
in the balance of duties managed via the TRAC-compliant WAM.

All research staff are supported through investment in on-going professional and career
development, fully utilising wider University resources. Research facilities include offices,
workshops, studio and exhibition spaces and a range of technical support. Staff development is
further supported through the grant application peer-support and review process; PhD Supervisory
Training; PDRA development; research workshops; an annual research symposium and exhibition
alongside a well-established mentoring system. Part of the UoA strategy has been to encourage
and support staff to gain research degrees; this is not restricted to academics, and currently two
professional services staff are undertaking study for doctorates and one for a Masters by
Research.

Staff members may apply to change contracts from Teaching & Scholarship (T&S) to Teaching &
Research (T&R), and vice versa, based on information gathered via the annual OSaR and ARR
exercises. Since 2019, staff on any contract may apply to change their contract by writing to the
Dean and ADR through a formal process, if a substantial and verifiable body of research work is
made evident through the ARR or OSAR. During this period, two members of the Professional
Services teams successfully transferred to research contracts in recognition of their research
career trajectory (Hao, Lockhart). Candidates for transfer to research contracts propose a two-
year plan of research activity with an appointed mentor and submit this to the Dean and ADR for
recommendation for School Executive approval. Candidates and mentors meet regularly over the
two-year transition period and at the end, a decision is made regarding transition to a T&R contract
with the standard 30% research time allocation, or to remain on the standard T&S contract as
before. Staff moving to a T&R contract may have completed or be working towards the completion
of a doctorate and/or will be disseminating high quality research outputs as well as submitting
applications for, or have been awarded, external funding.

Recruitment and Support for Early Career Researchers: The School recruitment policy seeks
to appoint research active (T&R) academic staff wherever possible. On appointment, academic
staff are assigned a personal mentor, engage with mentoring sessions and bespoke workshops,
and are encouraged to participate in UoD’s comprehensive portfolio of programmes offered by the
Organisational and Professional Development (OPD) unit. The School induction programme
includes a presentation on the School’s research by the ADR, followed by new staff research
presentations, ensuring an effective introduction to the School’s research community, themes and
networks. During their three-year probation period, ECR’s have a protected workload balance of
duties with a 40% research and orientation allocation in order to facilitate the development of
networks, outputs and funding applications, and to nurture their research career. Following
probation, this is normally adjusted to a standard 30%. ECRs assume a range of research-led
duties alongside their teaching, such as PhD thesis monitoring, PhD supervision training and,

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
when appropriate, begin a second supervision. They also contribute to the research committee.
Every ECR has a mentor whom they meet regularly. Additionally, the research studio culture
enables a level of community engagement and peer support within the UoA.

All research staff have access to an annual individual research account (IRA) to support routine
research activity (such as travel) and facilitate scoping of new areas of investigation. Individuals
can apply for DJCAD research funds on a case-by-case basis for further support (international
travel, conference fees, artist residencies, subsistence, accommodation costs). They can also
access additional funding through the deposit of awards, prizes, fees, consultancy and other
research funds. PDRAs have been supported by awards from EPSRC, AHRC, Horizon2020,
government agencies, Ferring Pharmaceuticals Ltd, ADUS Deep Ocean. PDRAs are active
members of their research groups and appropriate School committees and have status as ECRs
contributing to the full range of School fora and programmes of career development and mentoring,
embracing the spirit as well as the letter of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers.

PGR Student Community: During the period, there have been 43.65FTE research degree
completions. Our PhD students mostly receive funding support through research grants and
awards; with a growing proportion of self-funders, averaging 7 to 10 per year. Funding sources
include Research Councils (4 AHRC, 7 EPSRC), 1 Carnegie Award, a further 20 funded by foreign
governments, private and public trusts, other universities, and industry. UoA32 has been part of the
Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) since inception in 2014, and Taylor A
became a member of the SGSAH Executive Group in 2020. SGSAH has transformed the
environment for our doctoral researchers by expanding the number of generic and subject-specific
training programmes available to them. We currently have two PhD students on SGSAH
scholarships.

An enhanced focus on support for doctoral candidates for proposal writing has boosted acceptance
rates and is reflected by a growing PGR community. The current cohort comprises 45 PhD
students, with 76% of the cohort studying full-time. There are four students enrolled on the recently
introduced University-wide Professional Doctorate programme to which DJCAD contributes taught
modules as well as supervision with the first students completing in 2023. Masters by Research in
Art or Design was introduced in 2020 to support progression to PhD study. The 2019/20 review of
the Taught Postgraduate Portfolio further augments the opportunity to prepare and progress
students to PhD study.

The interdisciplinary ethos within the School is reflected in increasing numbers of applicants
requesting supervision teams across the School and University. Interdisciplinary topics and
research methods have led to real growth in these multi-disciplinary areas of development, with
47.9% of PhD students engaged in inter/multi-disciplinary research (Fig. 1). Currently, there are 17
PhD supervisors from other Schools or prominent professional roles within external partner
organisations. PhD students have received major accolades, including the Scottish National
Portrait Award (Huang, 2020); Scottish Government Awards Climate Change Fund: ‘Local Food for
Local People’ (Donkers, 2015/16, 2016/17); Winner of the AHRC Research in Film Awards
(Baxter, 2016). Graduate PhD successes include employment as a Senior Policy Advisor for the
Scottish Executive and art psychotherapy in the National Health Service.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Fig 1: 47.9% of current PhD students in Art and Design conduct interdisciplinary research.

A supervisor training programme is conducted by the School PhD Coordinators (Modeen, Notaro),
comprising in-house one- and two-day workshops delivered bi-annually by internal and external
specialist staff and trainers. This is conducted with reference to the wider University programmes
including those of the recently established University-wide Doctoral Academy (2019) providing
comprehensive student support and supervisor training, aligned with UKRI expectations for
Postgraduate Research, the QAA UK and University’s Quality Codes for Research Degrees.
Workshops and seminars are specifically tailored to the needs of our institution, unit and staff,
based around real-world case-study materials in art and design. Workshops are conducted for new
supervisors, refresher workshops for supervisors wishing to update their skills, and advanced
workshops dealing with wider frameworks related to PhD supervision such as examination and
progression. Annual PhD Programme Reviews, to which students, supervisors and administrators
contribute, are filed with the Doctoral Academy with the aim of guaranteeing and improving quality
of the doctoral study experience. In parallel with DJCAD supervisor training, the University and
Doctoral Academy provide a compulsory Supervisor Training Scheme delivered by the OPD team.
Training is further enhanced by events held by SGSAH and the Scottish Graduate School for
Social Sciences. All research staff are invited to contribute to Thesis Monitoring Committees (twice
annually for full-time students; once annually for part-time students), effectively sharing the content
and progress of PhD projects within the research community and developing awareness and
experience of supervision.

Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI): We promote an intercultural and inclusive environment
across all aspects of our work and equality of opportunity underpins all that we do. School-level
EDI Coordinators were appointed in 2017 and are vitally important in promoting equality, diversity
and inclusion amongst staff and students, and in providing direction to the School SEG on strategic
and day-to-day equality matters. The School EDI Committee has representation across academic
disciplines and professional services teams. All staff undertake mandatory Equality & Diversity
training modules; and from 2020, all DJCAD staff and students undertake Unconscious Bias
training to raise awareness within the academic context and community. We promote and ensure
EDI via mandatory online training for all staff and by recording and monitoring protected
characteristics as part of the recruitment, probation and promotion process. Our Dignity at Work
and Study Policy and procedures for staff and students implements our commitment not to tolerate

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
discrimination, harassment or bullying, including the support available through our Harassment
Advisers Network.

All Category A staff research activities are treated equally regardless of position or type of contract.
The transparent WAM makes fair provision for administrative duties by allowing for adjustment of
the proportion of teaching against administration, thus protecting research time. Care is taken to
ensure that the expectations of staff on fractional contracts are duly considered with excellence
acknowledged at all times.

Construction of the REF Submission: Outputs were selected and attributed to individual staff by
the UoA32 Planning Group (comprising 50% female/male staff) consistent with the institutional
REF Code of Practice with the aim of maximising the overall quality profile for the submission. All
REF-returnable staff were invited to propose impact cases studies and those chosen reflect the
strongest impacts arising over the REF period as deemed by the UoA32 Planning Group. The
proportion of outputs attributed was broadly consistent with the gender balance of the UoA. Other
comparisons based on protected characteristics (ethnicity, disability, age) also indicate no bias in
output selection. Consistent with our institutional REF Code of Practice, bespoke training relating
to unconscious bias was developed for all staff involved in REF management and due process
followed for all eligible staff with individual circumstances to be taken into account.

A number of our researchers (Bodor, Fagen, Gorrill, Pullin, Shemilt) are actively engaged in
investigating research questions of equality, diversity and inclusion. Cooper Gallery, a key
research and academic resource, is recognised for its inclusive and intersectional exhibitions and
events programming. This central provision celebrates the diversity of artists, designers, curators
and others in the creative and cultural industries at the heart of the academic community. The
School and Cooper Gallery also contribute to the programming of the University-wide Black History
Month and LGBTQ+ History Month. International recruitment of staff and students adds a global
dimension to our aims for diversity within our community. School-level workshops and awayday
activities promote EDI initiatives across DJCAD, and a School-level Athena Swan application is in
preparation for submission in 2023. The University is a member of the Race Equality Charter and
is preparing an application for an AdvanceHE Race Equality Charter Award, with a self-
assessment team including Gorrill, Notaro, Taylor A.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income: The total value of reported research income during the REF2021 census period was
£11.1M. Generating £98,718 income per FTE placed the Unit in the top three UK research units in
Art & Design in the latest Higher Education Statistical Agency (HESA) openly reported data made
available in 2018/19.

Our research is supported via income streams from research councils, national and international
government agencies, charitable foundations, large and SME industrial partners, cultural
organisations with significant partnership and additional in-kind support. Researchers also
undertake a significant volume of projects and commissions in partnership with commissioning
bodies, galleries, museums, publishers and others that are directly funded to cover professional
fees, studio production, presentation, publications, events, promotions and dissemination costs.
The total reported income also excludes the value of income from other sources that support key
research projects and strategic initiatives. The Cooper Gallery programmes and projects drew
c£257K from sources including Creative Scotland, Henry Moore Foundation, Kingston University,
British Council, Goethe Institute Glasgow, Fluxus (Hao); and the Trinity Buoy Wharf Drawing Prize

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Project, supported by Trinity Buoy Wharf Trust at £65K per year (until 2023) plus income
generated annually to cover full project delivery costs and in-kind support (Taylor A).

During the census period, Interdisciplinary Design and Innovation generated £2.6M from Arts &
Humanities Research Council (AHRC), Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council
(EPSRC), Royal Society Edinburgh (RSE), NESTA, Creative Scotland, The European
Commission, Royal Society of Arts, Chest Heart & Stroke, and industry. People, Landscape and
Environment generated £1.6M income from philanthropic and charitable sources including
Ferrings Pharmaceuticals Ltd, The Friends of South Georgia Island, Paulson Foundation, AHRC,
Leverhulme Trust and Carnegie Trust. Secure Digital Futures secured funded projects with a total
income of £5.5M including national and international Government agencies, Mozilla Foundation,
AHRC, EPSRC, Horizon2020, Microsoft, Novalia, Unlimited Theatre Company, Royal College of
Surgeons, Advanced Underwater Surveys Ltd, Chief Scientist Office, Leverhulme Trust, Royal
Society Edinburgh (RSE). Visual Practice, Curation and Critique secured income from AHRC,
Wellcome Trust, Trinity Buoy Wharf Trust, British Council, Scottish Arts Council, RSE, Biological
and Biotechnology Research Council (BBSRC), Leverhulme Trust, Carnegie Trust, European
Commission, Creative Scotland, Economic & Social Research Council (ESRC) amongst others to
the overall total of £1.45M and generated consultancy income for digitisation of video and sound
works for Tate. The £11.5M AHRC Creative Industries Clusters Programme, InGame (2018-23)
awarded £1,658,483 to the University with £214,613 apportioned to this UoA.

We are active players in the University’s Dundee Interdisciplinary and Innovation Forum (DIIF)
programme of events, contributing to ideation and design stages of collaborative bids involving
researchers from all Schools, and in developing and agreeing the collective University-wide
thematic and challenge-oriented priorities for research and innovation. This has led directly to new
collaborations, partnerships, and development of major collaborative bids submitted to ESRC and
other funding bodies. 33% of the UoA32 outputs involve trans/inter-disciplinary research. The
interdisciplinary ethos of the University extends to the annual series of ‘Discovery Days’ where new
Professors present and share their research to a shared internal and extensive public audience,
providing opportunities to identify confluences of aims and ambitions and shared priorities that may
lead to the development of funding bids.

Researchers within UoA32 actively respond to individual, collaborative and interdisciplinary funding
calls; and where relevant, a range of methodologies from design sprints, sandpits and think-tanks
are used by existing and prospective research teams to generate and focus ideas. Proposal
development is further supported through mentoring and peer review in preparation for submission;
for large-scale project and research centre proposals, such as those supported by ESRC or
Leverhulme, competitive internal University-wide processes are in place, with peer review
mechanisms and selection processes supported by panels drawn from the most relevant experts
across the University and managed by the University Research Office.

Research Infrastructure: The University and School have consistently committed investment in
research infrastructure to increase capacity and achieve sustainable growth within this Unit. The
research support infrastructure, both human (academics, administrative, research assistants,
fellows, technicians) and physical (Digital MakeLab, Research Hub, Archives and Collections,
Library, studios, workshops), has developed steadily over the past twenty years, along with
significant investment in research leadership and management.

A DJCAD Professoriate was established in 2019 as a leadership community in Art and Design to
support and develop strategic priorities, enhance inter-disciplinary and transdisciplinary research,

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and identify opportunities for collaboration and funding. The ADR is supported by the 12
Professors, Senior Researchers, REF Coordinator, a full-time Research Administration Lead (ARL)
and two general support administrators.

The DJCAD Research Office supports delivery of research projects and provides mentoring and
individual guidance. They assist with the writing of grant applications and research contract bids
and with their implementation; working closely with the University Research & Innovation Services
(RIS) and Research Finance Office to provide support and advice on the development of research
bids, costings, knowledge transfer and consultancy, and the formulation of strategic bids to the
Scottish Funding Council, Research Councils (such as Block Grants and Doctoral Training
Partnerships) and major bids to the European Commission. The Research Office produces regular
research newsletters and email communications and disseminates research news, information on
funding calls and strategic initiatives.

The School Research Committee oversees implementation of the Research Strategy, monitors
development and progress of initiatives, projects, studentships, research integrity and ethics at
School level, and is aligned to the University Research & Knowledge Exchange Committee
(RKEC). The Committee ensures support and allocates discipline-focused funds that enable early
career staff to establish their research agenda; and facilitates hybrid research practices,
methodologies and emergent domains of knowledge as well as supporting established researchers
appropriately through international benchmarking, maximising dissemination opportunities and by
sharing good practice and successes. Reporting to the School Board and University RKEC, the
Committee ensures regular and transparent dissemination of research activities and processes,
including oversight and management of the REF2021 submission.

Research Facilities: As a research-informed, industry-facing incubator for art and design, we
sustain a physical environment designed to foster creativity, thinking through making, design
thinking, entrepreneurial exploration, risk-taking, technological and skills development, innovation
and public engagement.

The £1.12M investment in 2018 in the new Research Hub, Labs and specialist Art, Design &
Architecture Library provided a focal point for all UoA32 research. The resultant high-quality space
engenders a cultural vitality, augments our well-established assets for dissemination and public
engagement and houses major research projects and teams such as GROW, OpenDott, and
Centre for Remote Environments. Facilities include the, Digital Suite, Matthew Gallery, ‘Research
Kitchen’, Research Office, Research Studio, and associated administrative and social facilities.
This in turn brings together the academic, postdoctoral, PhD, and professional services team,
altogether in one place to promote ideas, generate collaborations and networks and effectively
foster and co-create our research community.

Having the capacity to host international conferences, such as the Annual Conferences of the
European Academy of Design (Valentine) and Architectural Humanities Research Association
(Holm) has been transformational. The creation of an Annual Research Expo (2019, 2020) has
ensured a vibrant programme of dissemination within DJCAD, the University and for our partners
and publics of significant research outcomes and strategic areas of focus. This has included
presentation of exhibitions in the Matthew Gallery of The Constructed Worlds of Calum Colvin
(2020), Alastair McLennan, Actuations & Other Works (Watson, 2019) and 2020 performance,
Wave by Waive.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Research Hub provides a central location for our Archives and Collections. A recognised
centre for collections in non-traditional archives within the UK, the Artists’ Book Collection Dundee
(abcD), MicroCinema and REWIND were enhanced by the Demarco Archives and Alastair
MacLennan Archives in 2018. Widely acknowledged as the most significant British performance
artist of his generation, MacLennan’s archive includes slides, photographs and videos of c600
performances, several hundred drawings, performance objects, and publications. An Art 360
Foundation Award (Lockhart) supported digitisation, and RSE funding for the ‘Living Archive’ was
secured (Bodor (2020). Use of these important archives and collections has expanded during the
period, including The Water Hen / Kurka Wodna; Kantor, Demarco and the Edinburgh Festival
(McArthur, Watson, Lockhart, 2015), and promoted awareness of these resources to independent
researchers and organisations nationally and internationally.

An AHRC Capabilities and Collections Award (£242K, Colvin, 2020) enables an extensive
upgrade of our digital preservation equipment, supporting further collaboration with the University
Museums, the Scottish Centre for Comics, and creative and cultural organisations such as British
Film Institute and Tate. The University Museum has extensive art, design and architecture
holdings related to the history of DJCAD and other collections such as the D’Arcy Thomson
Zoology Museum inspire interdisciplinary research projects (Body). While managed by the
University Museum Services, abcD relocated to the DJCAD Library (2018) and comprises 1400+
books by Scottish and international artists including John Cage, Nathan Coley, Marcel Duchamp,
Ian Hamilton Finlay, Douglas Gordon, Yoko Ono, Julian Opie, David Shrigley, Andy Warhol, and
Faithfull. The Scottish Centre for Comics was formed in 2014 by researchers in UoA 27 and
UoA32 (Herd, Vaughan), reflecting the comics heritage of the city.

The 3DVisLab has a secure studio environment and specialist technology for its work with
research partners in government and industry. A rolling programme of films are constantly
displayed on a dedicated monitor in the public spaces of DJCAD, ensuring visibility and
engagement with their projects on climate change (Baxter), subsea visualisation (Rowlands),
cultural heritage and archaeology (Watterson).

Established in 1953, Cooper Gallery is the oldest purpose-built contemporary art gallery in
Dundee and the largest University exhibition unit in Scotland. Curated by Hao, its acclaimed
programmes place curatorial research and public engagement at the centre of the academic
community and forefront innovative practices, creative and critical discourse in contemporary art,
design and visual culture as an integral part of the cultural offer of the city. Cooper Gallery
presented 38 exhibitions from 2014-2020, including Naiza Khan, Kathrin Sonntag, Ulay, Bruce
McLean, Phil Collins. Jasmina Cibic’s The Pleasure of Expense (2019) was accompanied by a ‘12-
Hour Non-State Parade’ a choreographed performative think tank, with contributions from
storytellers, dancers, playwrights, writers, poets, film makers, and international women’s
community choir with keynotes by Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Pinar Aksu, Rebecca Gordon-Nesbitt.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Ensuring the contribution of Art, Design and related areas to the research base, economy and
society is integral to our mission, and evident across our research projects and outcomes. Our
Impact Case Studies - 3D Sub-Sea Visualisation, Co-Creation for Environmental Monitoring,
Design Meets Disability, Digital Archiving for Curation and Dissemination – reflect our trans-
disciplinary research areas. Characteristically, they achieve cultural, social and economic impacts
through sustained collaborative and interdisciplinary initiatives and partnerships that reverberate
widely.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Our dynamic institutional partnership with V&A Dundee stems from substantial research and
knowledge exchange projects since 2005. These projects led to the aspiration for, and
development and realisation of, the museum as a major civic, community, educational and
research asset, with ‘Making it Happen’ publicly launching the project in 2009 (Follett). As a
founding partner, we collaborated with Dundee City Council who developed the £80M museum as
the centrepiece of a £300M 30-year plan for the Dundee waterfront, along with Abertay University,
Scottish Enterprise and Victoria & Albert Museum in London. Since its opening in 2018, V&A
Dundee has become a beacon within the creative and cultural ecology of Dundee and, by February
2020, had attracted 1M visitors. In its first full year of operation, it was found to have had a £75M
economic impact across Scotland, generating £21M into the Dundee economy. Design for
Business, a joint initiative between V&A Dundee and DJCAD (Ballie) supported by Scottish
Enterprise, has delivered more than 68 design innovation workshops for 1100+ professionals from
680+ Scottish businesses and organisations since inception. Design for Business is a founding
member of the Global Design Thinking Alliance of practitioners and research institutions, promoting
excellence in design thinking worldwide.

We work closely with creative and cultural providers as contributors to the civic fabric of the City
and wider Tay City Region including Dundee City Council Cultural Partnerships, Creative Dundee,
DCA, Discovery Point, Hospitalfield, McManus Galleries, Verdant Works, Wasps Studios and
Generator Projects (co-founded Harrison P), with InGame co-located with a number of the city’s
gaming companies. As a founding partner of DCA (1996) a strong partnership has been sustained
through collaborative projects including Print City (Harrison P 2017) and exhibition loans from the
D’Arcy Thompson Collection to Seized by the Hand (2020). Other major initiatives in the City
include Eden Scotland and Michelin Science & Innovation Parc, with both actively engaging
with our researchers during their feasibility and development stages (2019-20).

A wide range of individuals in the creative and cultural industries and publics used our research
with co-created outcomes. Academic partners include the universities of Aberdeen, Abertay,
Concordia, Edinburgh, Iceland, Imperial College, Malta, New South Wales, St Andrews, Stirling,
UTS, amongst others. Our key research users include a range of national and international
Government agencies; industry users include Microsoft, Mozilla, Celestial, BBC, BFI, Bookworks,
Hauser & Wirth, RA Magazine; research has been devised with British Council, Crafts Council,
Creative Scotland, Design Council, Jerwood Arts, Institute of Goldsmiths, Trinity Buoy Wharf Trust.

Examples include commissions by the Ministry of Defence including underwater surveying and
recording of war grave shipwrecks through 3D visualisation (HMS Hampshire, 2016; HMS
Vanguard, 2017; HMS Royal Oak, 2018-19); excavation and recovery of crew remains from WWII
aircraft lost at sea is of major significance to national cultural heritage and military history. This
work is held in high esteem by partners and stakeholders resulting in further commissions from US
Defence POW/MIA Accounting Agency, University of Malta, and others. Research undertaken with
Celestial contributed to the Edinburgh Hogmanay 2020 (Head) a large-scale immersive event
broadcast over 3 days, with 6M+ direct views from over 50 countries. We work closely with a range
of cultural organisations such as Royal Scottish Academy (RSA), Scottish National Gallery of
Modern Art, Tate. Fusco collaborated with BBC Radio 4, National Theatre Wales and ArtAngel;
Kovats was Guest Curator for the Edinburgh International Book Festival (2018); Dalziel +
Scullion were commissioned for the 14-18 NOW, WW1 Centenary commemoration.

Staff interact with a range of beneficiaries, partners and audiences to develop impact from their
research. 'Hands of X: Design meets disability' (Pullin, Cook A) developed an EPSRC-project,

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
socio-technical materials for prosthetic hands (Co-I Miodownik, UCL Mechanical Engineering),
curated by V&A Dundee. This exhibition recreated a prototype consultation service originally
installed in an eyewear shop, unpacking the distinctive participatory process that brought people
with limb difference and amputees together with designers, prosthetists and makers. Visitors
contributed to the next phase of the research by exploring how choice and participation can bring a
sense of ownership in the design process.

Wider activities and mechanisms that contribute to the research base, economy and society and
sustainability of the discipline include those of Cooper Gallery, designated the only Plus Tate
organisation in an educational setting in Scotland in 2020 and one of four in the UK. Exhibitions
such as Politics of Small Places (2018), a dialogue between Turner Prize nominee Paul Noble and
the archival diagrams of pioneering Scottish urban planner Patrick Geddes (1854-1932) engaged
wide professional, public and academic audiences with issues of sustainability, social struggle, and
collective effort, linking to the work of The Geddes Institute (Holm). As part of a nationwide
programme ‘GENERATION: 25 Years of Contemporary Art in Scotland’ (National Galleries
Scotland (NGS), Creative Scotland, Glasgow Life), Hao curated Studio Jamming: Artists'
Collaborations in Scotland, the first discursive survey to research, annotate and contextualise
artists' collaboration as a constituent phenomenon of artistic practice. GENERATION also featured
exhibitions by Harrison P, Myles, Peter, Dalziel+Scullion. Held at major venues across China
(Shanghai, Beijing, Wuhan), Hao’s curation of Current presented seminal 1970s & 1980s video
works from REWIND alongside a screening programme of 24 emerging artists’ moving image
works from Scotland, >>FFWD, British Council, Creative Scotland, Scottish Government, Shanghai
International Culture Association (£163K).

GCADI presented a tri-national exhibition, Confluence: Tradition in Contemporary Art at Montclair
State University USA (2019) in conjunction with their international Leaders of the World
conference, with participants from 19 countries; 1000 copies of the dual language exhibition
publication distributed across the USA. The exhibition of 46 artists will be presented at SFAI
(postponed due to COVID-19) along with a global conference with 30 countries invited.

The RSA exhibition Ages of Wonder: 1540-now (2017-18) curated by Watson was an extensive
survey of works collected by the RSA in partnership with the NGS, dating from 1540 with the most
recent work created during the exhibition. The largest collections exhibition ever mounted by the
RSA with more than 450 works by 270 artists and architects, it generated national media attention
and record attendances (67,178 people); live projects in the galleries revisited the Academy’s Life
School, artists’ engagement with printmaking, and artist-in-residence Colvin, whose installation
towards a photographic portrait of the Scottish poet and polemicist Hugh MacDiarmid stimulated
ongoing debate and public events around Scottish cultural identity within current political
uncertainties. Both Colvin’s Leverhulme-funded Jacobites By Name, Scottish National Portrait
Gallery (SNPG, 2015-16) and Fagen’s exhibition for the 56th Venice Biennale (2015) reflected on
identity. The Slave’s Lament (2015) focussed on legacies of slavery in Scottish and Caribbean
culture and featured a cross-genre group of musicians (Ghetto Priest, Adrian Sherwood, Scottish
Ensemble) in a reworking and restaging of Robert Burns’ eponymous song; with wide international
reach, it toured from Venice to Jamaica to Scotland and was acquired by NGS and Tate.

The Open Drawing Exhibitions (Taylor A) is delivered in partnership with Jerwood Charitable
Foundation (to 2017) and Trinity Buoy Wharf Trust/Urban Space Management (since 2018) in
London and with tour and educational partners generates participation, dialogue, and
understanding of current drawing practice to the benefit of practitioners, participants, curators,
educators and publics. From 2014-20, 19,432 drawings were submitted, 27 distinguished selectors

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
drawn from the cultural and creative industries were appointed, and 7 annual touring exhibitions
presented, with 4,274 submissions received from 42 countries in 2020. The biennial Evelyn
Williams Drawing Award, resulted in Barbara Walker’s exhibition, Vanishing Point (Jerwood
Gallery, 2019/20), exploring black subjects in The National Gallery collections though drawing.
National Gallery loans were supported by the Weston Loan Programme with Art Fund.

Exemplars of interdisciplinary research include the Citizen Science and Environmental Monitoring
projects (Woods) focused on environmental issues for research and innovation in the Rural
Economy supported by Horizon2020, ESPRC, AHRC, Newton Fund, Scottish Informatics and
Computer Science Alliance, Creative Scotland (2014-2016). Making Sense comprised research on
citizen sensing and environmental monitoring of pollution in air, noise and gamma radiation across
three cities over three years, creating content that could be usefully shared and replicated by policy
makers, urban planners, environmental interest groups and academia. A new model for action-
orientated citizen sensing, novel service design tools, methods, case studies and
recommendations to policymakers and stakeholders were devised through the authoritative but
accessible Making Sense Toolkit. Working with communities experiencing environmental issues
related to climate change, the GROW Observatory captured data using open technology devices,
crowdsourcing and fieldwork, created new tools such as the Co-Design Climate Services Kit,
enabled training for more than 30,000 people worldwide through Massive Open Online Courses
(MOOCs), communicating critical research insights to a wide array of stakeholders and the public.

Watterson’s use of 3D imaging of artefacts from Nunalleq in Alaska (2018-19) gives voice to the
history and culture of an underrepresented minority community through outcomes presented as a
community learning resource for the 27 schools in the Lower Kuskokwim School District in
collaboration with Quinhagak Community and Aberdeen University. England has worked with
Crafts Council UK on craft and creative economies, the Higher Education and Policy for Creative
Economies in Africa: Developing Creative Economies, and the impacts of COVID-19 on the
creative economy in the United Arab Emirates.

Wilson has developed new metal alloys, surface finishes and applications from precious metals
recovered from electronic waste with colleagues at University of Edinburgh including new methods
of gold recovery from waste stream processes (EPSRC £399K, Dundee awarded £41K). Along
with Chemical Recycling of Precious Metals from Electronic Waste in India (EPSRC GCRF), new
value chains are created from material consumption that support sustainable livelihoods for local
artisans. Vones explores the role that smart materials and microelectronics play in the creation of
objects that respond dynamically to their environment and that explore potential to support creation
of sustainable communities within Indian Maker Spaces in projects funded by the Carnegie Trust
Research Incentive Grants scheme for ECRs and Horizon 2020 Innovation Action under the
WEAR Sustain Creative & Technology Collaboration Funding (€50K). Vones’ research surveying
3D printing in India and Africa, and Woods’ research in Citizen Science and soil have led to new
technologies that empower local communities in international contexts. The Centre for Remote
Environments (CRE) focusses on environmental and industrial-cultural heritage protection in South
Georgia (Shemilt). Working closely with the South Georgia Heritage Trust, South Atlantic
Environmental Research Institute and Paulson Family Foundation, CRE recontextualizes the
complex environmental significance of South Georgia’s industrial and cultural ecology, developing
a live mapping interface and tools for visualising environmental data. Dunlop examines the role of
technologies, militarisms and scientific imagery in changing landscapes through film and video,
and as Co-I on the AHRC Sounding Coastal Change submitted evidence to the House of
Commons Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee.


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Health and wellbeing initiatives include Dalziel+Scullion’s Rosnes Bench, 30 bespoke recumbent
benches positioned in twelve locations over a 300 square-mile site in collaboration with Wide Open
Ltd, The Forestry Commission Scotland and Scottish Natural Heritage. With a dedicated website,
receiving 40K+ visits each year Rosnes Bench is a popular outdoor trail within Dumfries &
Galloway; Imagining Technologies for Disability Futures (Wellcome Centre); A Sense of Ownership
in Rehabilitation Services: Disability-Led Design and Improvement Studies’ (Pullin);
Interdisciplinary research collaboration to devise innovative technologies and approaches to
enhance healthcare using wearable sensors (EPSRC SPHERE, Head). LifeSpace presented 18
exhibitions and 4 commissions/residencies with jointly devised programmes with partners including
UNSW Galleries (Australia) and Sheila C. Johnson Design Centre (The New School, USA)
supported by The Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund, The Leverhulme Trust Artist
in Residence in the Dundee Imaging Facility, The Wellcome Centre for Anti-Infectives Research.

Contributions to secure futures include: H-unique (Rowland) with the Centre for Anatomy &
Human Identification (UoD Science and Engineering) in collaboration with Lancaster University, a
€2.5M European Research Centre programme (2019-2023), the first multi-modal automated
interrogation of visible hand anatomy pioneering new methods to characterise and capture
anatomical details used for identifying persons of interest in the context of security screening;
Imprints: Public Responses to Identity Management technologies and practices – EPSRC (£1.9M,
Dundee awarded £132K, Wilson) which led to better understanding of the fluid nature of identity
and how to embed this within wearable technologies, in partnership with universities of
Northumbria (Psychology), Essex (Political Science), Loughborough (Communication Studies), and
contributed evidence to Government Committees on security and identity management. The Living
Digital Group (Moncur) carried out empirical investigations of human behaviour in digital contexts
using qualitative and quantitative methods to develop insights and to design technologies,
emphasizing applied, impactful research. Collaborating with researchers from multiple disciplines,
including Human-Computer Interaction, Psychology, Design, Law, Sociology and Health Sciences
working with project partners including Microsoft, Royal Bank of Scotland, Bristows, with UTS
Australia via collaborative PhD supervision and visiting appointments, the Centre for Research and
Evidence on Security Threats at the University of Lancaster, and Microsoft Research UK
continuously involved since 2011.

Board, committee and panel memberships include: Council for Higher Education in Art and Design
(CHEAD) Research Alliance Strategy Group (Bodor); Board of Directors, Scottish Outdoor
Education Centres (Bruce); Board Memberships of The Common Guild, Dundee Contemporary Art
(Fagen); British Council International Ambassador for Writing (Fusco); British Art Network Steering
Committee, Live Art Sector Review Steering Group for Arts Council England (Hao). Board
member, The Design Journal (Lim); Chair of Trustees of CHEAD, Director of V&A Dundee Design
Ltd, Member of the Tay Cities Culture and Tourism Thematic Board, President of Wells Art
Contemporary, Trustee of Stroud Valley Arts (Taylor A). Editorships include: ‘Critical Theory for
the 21st Century’ Atheneum Books (Lushetich). AHRC Peer Review College Members include
Fusco, Notaro, Taylor A; Carnegie Trust Research Assessor (Notaro); Creative & Performing
Arts Panel for the Hong Kong REF2014 (Taylor A).

The vibrant research environment at UoD has sustained an extensive range of activities, public
engagement and outputs since 2014. Almost 1,000 public engagement events are recorded on the
institutional repository as well as other roles including expert advisors (3), Chairs (21), consultants
(2), contributors (33), editorial board members (5), examiners (17), guest editors (2), invited and
keynote speakers (47), other speaking engagements (171), memberships of various bodies (37),
programme committees (13), visiting researchers (7); with 147 solo and group exhibitions

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recorded. Works and artefacts have been included in collections such as the SNPG, NGS, Tate
(Fagen); Elizabeth Sackler Center for Feminist Art, Brooklyn Museum, USA (Gorrill); Sammlung
Verbena Collection, Vienna (Shemilt). Awards gained by staff include: Colvin’s OBE, The Saltire
Award for Art in Public Places was awarded to Dalziel + Scullion (2016), RSA Morton Award for
Lens-based Art (Dunlop, 2015) and AHRC Research Film of the Year 2019 Shortlist; Sobey Award
Shortlist (Eyres, 2017); Aesthetica Art Prize Shortlist (Spence, 2020); Creative Bath Award
(Taylor A, 2020); Electronica, STARTS Prize EU (2018), Land and Soil Management Award
(2017), ADIM Conference Award (2019); University of Dundee Stephen Fry Awards for Public
Engagement 2020 (Woods); AIA: Outstanding Work in Digital Archaeology 2021 (Watterson,
Baxter 2020).

Visiting roles such as Cameron Visiting Professor of Circumpolar Research at the University of
Alberta, Canada (Harrison P); Andrew W Mellon Research Fellowships (Milligan 2019; Myles
2016, 2018); AHRC Leadership Fellow, Visiting Fellow National University of Singapore
(Lushetich); Visiting Research Fellow Institute for Advanced Studies, University of Minnesota,
(Modeen); Adjunct Professor, University of Sydney, Sydney College of the Arts (Taylor A); 8
elected RSA Academicians (with Watson, Past Secretary, Past President). Speaking invitations
included ‘World Design Talks: Sustainable Cities’ conference, Ljubljana (Milligan, 2019); The
Hydrographic Society AGM (Rowlands, 2020), Keynote, Xi’an Academy of Fine Arts (Taylor A).
Contemporary Art Practice exhibitions are largely at the invitation of galleries and museums and
solo exhibitions included Modern Institute, Glasgow (Myles 2017); Baltic (2019), Copenhagen
Contemporary, Denmark (Peter). Dalziel + Scullion installed permanent works, ‘Nomadic
Boulders’ (John O’Groats) and ‘Rain’ (Saudi Arabia). The 2015 Scotland + Venice presentation at
the Venice Biennale featured Fagen’s solo exhibition at Palazzo Fontana.

We believe that our research environment has strategically supported, facilitated and nurtured
excellent research outcomes that have impacted upon and transformed lives locally and globally
through the creation, co-creation, sharing and application of our research and knowledge. These
comprehensive achievements provide confidence in our future strategies which, alongside our
reinvigorated research estate, researchers and infrastructure, present a bright and confident future
for UoA32 as a specialist and interdisciplinary research unit thriving on the synergies afforded by
the wider University and community collaboration. It provides an excellent foundation for our future
enhancement as a vibrant centre of excellence for Art and Design research set in a thriving and
globally networked creative city.




                                                                                            Page 19
