Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 07: Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Research Aims and Achievements. In 2008, the RAE highlighted explicitly the quality of
 geoscience research within the then-combined School of Geography and Geosciences (in
 RAE2008 the School ranked 17 out of 49 programmes by UoA 32 Geography and Environmental
 Studies). To sustain and grow that potential, the existing six Geoscience staff crafted a strategy
 to leverage recognised excellence in field geology and igneous petrology with the aim of creating
 a standalone programme dedicated to curiosity-driven science underpinned by isotope
 geochemistry. The University adopted that strategy in Autumn 2010 and invested £1.3 M in the
 geosciences. The early phase of that strategy helped propel the School of Geography and
 Geoscience to No. 5 overall and No. 1 in Impact in REF2014 (UoA 17 Geography, Environmental
 Studies and Archaeology). Between 2010-17, Geosciences won £10.8M in competitive research
 income and tripled the size of its PhD-Research Fellow community (from 9 in 2010 to 28 in 2017).
 In recognition of those achievements, the University created the School of Earth and
 Environmental Sciences in 2017. The School now consists of 23 REF-returnable staff (20 at 1.0
 FTE, 2 at 0.2 FTE, 1 at 0.5 FTE; total of 20.9 FTE staff), of whom 13 are within 10 years of
 obtaining their PhD and 6 are female. Our research community is thus built on strong support for
 early career Earth scientists, such as manageable teaching and admin loads for newer staff, and
 our inclusivity policies gained the School an Athena SWAN Bronze in September 2019.
 Our research aims to deepen understanding of the processes and feedbacks that link Earth’s
 interior to its surface and atmosphere. We study how those processes impact on and are
 influenced by human activities and use that knowledge to help underpin solutions to cope with
 future environmental change and steward sustainably Earth’s resources. Our expertise defines
 overlapping clusters in isotope geochemistry, climate modelling, geobiology, field geology and
 planetary habitability integrated across four themes that bind our individual and collaborative
 research activities (Fig. 1), including support for several staff who are concentrating increasingly
 on applying geology and geophysics to
 heritage preservation. We use our
 chemical, biological and geological
 insights to gain better understanding of
 the origin of our solar system and its
 planetary bodies. Our research ethos is to
 inspire discovery and inquiry of bold
 hypotheses and undertake incisive
 testing via critical thinking and evidence-
 based assessment that is global in scope
 and impact. Our research is in keeping
 with a culture of Research Integrity and
 aims to become part of an open research
 environment where possible (see
 Institution-Level Environment Statement,
 ILES, 2.4 and 2.6).
 Our achievements are a testament to the success of our research and staffing strategy:
    • creation, in January 2017, of an independent School of Earth and Environmental Sciences
    • four independent Research Fellows proceeded to Lectureships [Rae, Claire, Cousins,
       Stüeken] and our UKRI Future Leaders Fellow [Hutchison] will transition to Lecturer
    • during the REF2021 census period we attained an average of 18 peer-reviewed
       publications per REF-returnable staff
    • £16.5M in competitive research income was won during the REF2021 census period
    • establishment of four new research groups during the REF2021 census period:
           o St Andrews Volcanic Eruptions and Impact Group [Burke, Byrne, Claire, Hutchison,
              Rae, Wilson] integrates expertise in volcanology, geochemistry, (palaeo)climate

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                and atmospheric modelling to investigate large volcanic events and how climate
                and societies respond
            o   Planetary Geodynamics Research Group [Finch, Gardiner, McCarthy, Mikhail,
                Savage, Steele, White] integrates novel and non-traditional stable and radiogenic
                isotopes and chronometers, geodynamical modelling and petrology to investigate
                processes leading to the genesis of continental crust and geological evolution of
                rocky planetary bodies
            o   Centre for Exoplanet Science [Claire, Cousins, Mikhail, Savage, Steele, Stüeken,
                Zerkle] is an interdisciplinary centre combining expertise from the Schools of Earth
                and Environmental Sciences, Physics and Astronomy, Biology and Philosophy to
                study how planets and their atmospheres form in different galactic environments
                and the impact that finding life elsewhere would have on humankind
            o   Climate Dynamics Group [Allison, Byrne, Burke, Rae, Wilson] is a nascent group
                that addresses questions in atmospheric and climate modelling, genesis of
                monsoons, land-climate interactions, the water cycle and past and future climate
                change; this Group is central in coordinating the University’s new initiative, the St
                Andrews Network for Climate, Energy, Environment and Sustainability
 Our research traditionally championed field-based datasets and staff were recognised worldwide
 for expertise in field geology. Consequently, we implemented a strategy that focussed effort and
 resources on obtaining complementary expertise and cutting-edge analytical facilities in isotope
 geochemistry, geobiology, experimental petrology and geomagnetism (for a listing of specific
 equipment see Section 3). Hence, one of our most outstanding achievements during the REF2021
 census period was bringing together a group of world-class researchers and creating seven state-
 of-the-art analytical facilities (Fig. 2). We now lead research in the conception, testing and
 constraining of models of Earth system functioning, from the Recent through to Deep Time and
 from Earth’s oceans-atmosphere interface through to its interior. These include:




    •   The UK’s only laboratory capable of measuring all four stable isotopes of sulphur using
        gas-source methods that incorporates a custom-built SF6 line and innovative Curie point-
        pyrolysis technique; research differentiates sulphur isotope signals produced by
        thermochemical, atmospheric and metabolic pathways in mineral and organic materials to
        address questions about the composition and evolution of Earth’s surface environments
        during pivotal periods in Earth system development [Claire, Hutchison, Rose, Zerkle].
    •   Clean room ICP-MS laboratory suite with one of the first collision cell MC-ICP-MS Sapphire
        in Europe, Neptune Plus MC-ICPMS, state-of-the-art QQQ ICP-MS and RESolution
        Excimer laser ablation with cryocell, including associated Class-100 clean rooms for
        sample preparation. Specialist applications include boron isotopes to reconstruct
        atmospheric CO2, triple-sulphur isotopes to assess aerosols in ice cores and volcanic
        forcing of climate, and key metals (e.g. Cu, Ni, Si, Zn) in meteorites and terrestrial samples
        to probe questions about planetary habitability and solar system evolution [Burke,
        Hutchison, Rae, Savage, Steele, Stüeken].
    •   Laser ablation facility for elemental and isotopic analysis across the Periodic Table
        including capability for Nu Plasma MC-ICPMS and Agilent 7500 ICPMS with New Wave
        Deep-UV (193 nm) Excimer laser for in situ analyses of samples. Research foci include U-

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Pb dating and Hf compositions of minerals to investigate early growth of continental crust,
        genesis of metal resources and elemental distributions in corals to probe biomineralisation
        processes and their elemental fingerprints [Allison, Finch, Gardiner, Rae, Savage, Steele].
    •   a state-of-the-art electron microscopy Light Element Analytical Facility run jointly with the
        School of Chemistry and designed to provide high-resolution, non-destructive analysis of
        a wide range of natural and synthetic materials with emphasis on the traditionally difficult
        light elements (Li through F); bespoke research foci include documenting distribution and
        speciation of nitrogen in geological substances to assess geosphere-atmosphere
        interactions, genesis and structure of crystals and light elements for energy sources,
        storage and industrial uses [Finch, Hutchison, Mikhail, White].
    •   the first out-of-phase magnetic susceptibility kappabridge in an academic institution for
        quantified separation of magnetic anisotropy tensors associated with ferromagnetic and
        paramagnetic mineral fabrics; this enables ascription of fluid/melt-flow events to magmatic
        and ore-forming processes, relative ages and distinct tectonic regimes [McCarthy, Raub]
    •   molecular biology and geomicrobiology labs for cultivation of environmental
        microorganisms under extreme conditions, including manipulation and visualisation of
        DNA from the environment; research focusses on understanding and characterising
        biogeochemical cycling and biosignatures in settings ranging from the hyperarid (Atacama)
        to high-latitude cryogenic salts as analogues of possible Martian and icy world habitats,
        respectively [Claire, Cousins, Zerkle].
    •   an experimental petrology lab equipped with a Rockland Piston Cylinder press capable of
        0.5-4.5 GPa pressures and 100-2000°C temperatures to study solid-state, solid-fluid and
        fluid-fluid reactions, element partitioning, stable isotope fractionation and stability of
        carbon- and nitrogen-based molecules during differentiation of silicate melts and planetary
        bodies [Mikhail, Savage, Stüeken, White].
    •   a dendrochronology lab that has pioneered the Blue Intensity technique for late-Holocene
        palaeoclimate reconstruction and historical dating based on tree ring analysis; projects
        have spanned both the southern and northern hemispheres and the efficiency and
        inexpensiveness of the technique is enabling researchers in ODA-listed countries to
        undertake their own climate-change studies [Wilson]
    •   an aerosol chemistry laboratory supported by Cancer Research UK, a facility unique within
        the UK for generating and sampling respirable emissions across the full spectrum of
        nicotine-aerosolising methods, from combustion-generated smoke to medicinal nebulisers;
        LC-, GC- and ICPMS analyses of the emissions are used to model human toxicity and
        inform health policy makers and regulators [Stephens].
 We have co-located our highest-maintenance mass spectrometry facilities and Class-100 clean
 labs in wings shared with the Schools of Chemistry and Biology (ILES, 4.2). This has helped foster
 interdisciplinary research that bridges the natural sciences and, as detailed below, is forging
 research and impact linkages with colleagues in Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities. Details
 of our analytical capabilities are discussed in Section 3.

 Impact achievements. Our strategy for delivering research and impact places emphasis on
 activities that are interdisciplinary, span varying career stages for colleagues and weave together
 curiosity-driven science and applied research that achieves added value via our analytical
 capabilities. Our efforts have leveraged commercial contract work to cross-subsidise individual
 staff initiatives, help support PhD and MSc students, as well as Honours and MGeol dissertation
 research, and to underwrite research-led teaching programmes in the REE-resource, base-metal
 mining and renewable energy sectors. Our Impact achievements include:
     • Heritage resources and preservation [Bates, Kinnaird, Raub]. We have pioneered novel
          combinations of geophysical remote sensing methods and adapted those for heritage
          preservation to better understand humankind’s past through accurate reconstructions of
          the fragmentary records of ancient landscapes and cultures; our discoveries have informed
          UK and Scottish Government heritage policy, helped develop digital preservation
          techniques of artefacts ranging from 800,000-year-old human footprints to ancient Middle
          East temples, and guided development of better management protocols of UNESCO World
          Heritage sites in Nepal, Sri Lanka, Tanzania and the UK.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Natural resources and green energy [Bates, Claire, Finch, Gardiner, Hutchison, McCarthy,
        Prave, Rae, Raub, Steele, Stüeken, Wilson]. Our isotope geochemistry and field geology
        strengths have fostered collaborations with the energy and mineral resource industries and
        governmental research and policy organisations that include:
            o base metal and critical element studies with First Quantum Minerals, Gemfields Pty
                 Ltd, Kaz Minerals, 32 South, Nuna Minerals, Mkango Resources Ltd, SRK, Boliden
                 Tara, British Geological Survey and Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland
            o technological developments of analytical instrumentations with ThermoFisher
                 Scientific and proof-of-concept work with NuPlasma
            o renewable energy and environmental assessment supported by the Scottish
                 Funding Council, Fife Council, Scotland-Malawi Partnership and UKRI Global
                 Challenges Research Fund with in-country partners in ODA-listed countries of
                 Angola, Armenia, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Malawi, Peru, Rwanda and Tanzania.
    •   Society and Health [Stephens]. Initial research into environmental sources of toxins
        released during tobacco combustion (e.g. metals) was extended to all carcinogens in
        smoke and e-cigarette vapour but quantitative methodologies for comparing the risks of
        disease were lacking. During the REF2021 census period, a model of cancer risk
        dependence on aerosol chemistry was developed and emissions from each generic
        nicotine source were used to construct a cancer potency spectrum. The predicted risks
        were endorsed by Public Health England in its tobacco control policy and influenced a
        radical refocussing of long-term strategic business directions within all major “Big Tobacco"
        companies to a future of non-combustible smoke-free products.
    •   Society-and-Science Outreach [Cousins, Finch, Gardiner, McCarthy, Rae, Raub, Savage,
        Stüeken]. We coordinate and run a dynamic programme of educational impact through
        activities aimed at students of all ages and the general public. During the REF2021 period:
            o GeoBus, our mobile educational outreach project, delivered bespoke knowledge
                 enrichment to >70,000 primary and secondary pupils in 278 schools throughout
                 Scotland and northern England and leveraged £1.1M in funding from EPSRC,
                 NERC, The Royal Society and industry sources including Shell, BP, Maersk and
                 Verus Energy Ltd.
            o we delivered c. 300 contact hours per annum to the University’s summer school
                 programmes (e.g. First Chances, Sutton Trust, Summer Academic Experience,
                 Royal Society Masterclass) [numerous staff].
            o we brought on-line two taught MSc degree programmes, Geochemistry in 2017
                 [Savage] and, in 2020, Strategic Earth Resources [Gardiner] (restructured from our
                 Mineral Resources MSc) with dissertation projects linked to industry partners (see
                 list above); the former focusses on preparing students for further research whereas
                 the latter provides fundamental geological knowledge and skills required for
                 modern mineral exploration targeting and estimation, including economic,
                 environmental and social aspects related to resource extraction and remediation.
    •   Professional ‘good citizenship’ activities. We commit to providing as broad an exchange
        of knowledge as possible across the geosciences with the wider scientific community
        outside St Andrews. These activities are supported by our operations budget
        supplemented by funding from professional societies and organisations; they include:
            o an annual international symposium, FRESH (Frontline RESearcH at St Andrews)
                 developed thematically around emerging breakthroughs by School staff. For
                 example, in 2018 FRESH: Volcanic Impacts on Climate, Environment and Society
                 contributed to the research network foundational for the successful application and
                 award of an UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship to Hutchison
            o hosting at least one professional international conference per year; examples
                 include the annual conference for the Alfred P Sloan Foundation’s Deep Carbon
                 Observatory in 2017 [Mikhail], the Geochemistry Group annual meeting in 2018
                 [Burke, Rae, Savage], and the annual Volcanic and Magmatic Studies Group
                 (VMSG) meeting held in St Andrews in 2019 [Mikhail]; Astrobiology [Cousins,
                 Stüeken], Metamorphic Studies Group [White] and Geological Society London
                 sponsored Port Askaig Tillite [Rose] conferences were planned for 2020 but
                 postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             o   leadership on professional societies such as VMSG [Gardiner, Mikhail],
                 Geochemistry Group [Burke, Savage] and Metamorphic Studies Group [White],
                 European Association of Geochemistry [Mikhail], Tectonic Studies Group
                 [McCarthy], Mining Institute of Scotland [Prave], Theme Leader for the Geological
                 Society London’s initiative Energy and Materials Transition [Gardiner], co-chair
                 Election Committee for the Association of Tree-Ring Research [Wilson].

 Research and Impact: future aims. Over the next decade, our main aims are to: (i) maintain a
 position at the leading-edge of research that addresses the Grand Challenges in Earth and
 environmental science, (ii) remain responsive to new breakthroughs and prospects to recruit top-
 level researchers, (iii) continue to refine our analytical facilities and (iv) be opportunistic in creating
 and capitalising on funding opportunities to link the Natural Sciences with the Social Sciences and
 Arts and Humanities. Our strategy will consolidate expertise and investment in:
     • Global Change research [Allison, Burke, Byrne, Finch, Hutchison, Rae, Wilson]. We plan
         to advance research and impact along two main initiatives:
              o develop the next generation analysis of chemical fingerprints of global change with
                  an overarching aim to improve understanding of Earth’s climate forcing by CO2 and
                  volcanoes and the impact of an acidifying ocean on corals; the aim is to place
                  ourselves as a world leader in analyses of key environmental archives, including
                  corals, ice, trees and fossils
              o refine continental climate modelling using state-of-the-art GCMs that will interface
                  with our efforts in constructing chemical fingerprints of environmental change; the
                  aim is to deliver deeper understanding of the fundamental controls of changing
                  precipitation patterns and temperature extremes.
     • Economic Geology research [Bates, Finch, Gardiner, McCarthy, Raub]. We aim to expand
         applied research capabilities using our MMMOre Lab (Magnetism, Magmatism,
         Mineralogy, Ore) by integrating magneto-thermal characterisation of minerals, UAV- and
         satellite-based hyperspectral measurements and geochemical fingerprinting. We will use
         this capability to address the needs of the critical minerals industry, particularly in ODA-
         listed countries, via better predictive models for mineral resource estimation. This is made
         possible by a £100k investment split 1/3rd each between the School, University and PI
         funding [McCarthy] and includes provision for training to build in-country expertise.
     • Facility enhancement [Gardiner, Rae, Savage, Steele, Stüeken, White]. We are
         establishing a multidisciplinary facility combining Laser Ablation-Laser Induced Breakdown
         Spectroscopy (LA-LIBS) with the next generation of collision cell multicollector ICP-MS and
         triple quadrupole ICP-MS for simultaneous in situ measurement of volatiles, ppb precision
         of isotopic ratios and trace elements and 3-D elemental mapping. This will underpin
         research characterising mineral archives with beta decay system geochronology (e.g. La-
         Ba) for 4-D tracing of ore-forming processes, tracking Hg accumulation in biosystems,
         constraining past atmosphere compositions with combined S, Hg and Se isotopes, and
         building models of planetary differentiation and volatile cycling. A £30k grant from the MIS
         Trust is helping refurbish this facility.
     • Earth System Evolution research [Burke, Claire, Hutchison, Magalhaes, Rae, Zerkle]. We
         will capitalise on our capabilities to measure all four stable isotopes of sulphur on samples
         an order-of-magnitude smaller than required by standard fluorination methods. Using ERC
         funding we are automating sample preparation to enable an array of opportunities to
         examine high-resolution changes in atmospheric and biogeochemical sulphur cycling
         across Earth history. Noteworthy is that this facility is garnering requests worldwide for
         collaborative research.
     • Planetary Science research [Claire, Cousins, Mikhail, Savage, Steele, Stüeken, Zerkle].
         Understanding why our solar system is habitable and participating in the search for finding
         life elsewhere fuels our interest in expanding astrobiology and planetary habitability
         research via our on-going participation in the EU’s ESA Mars Rover and NASA-UKSA-
         ESA missions and the UK Cosmochemistry Analysis Network (UK-CAN). Joint with
         colleagues across the UK and our interdisciplinary Centre for Exoplanet Science we will
         continue to develop methods that impact on technologies for the study of Mars, icy moons
         and planetary bodies throughout our Solar System.

                                                                                                     Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Multidisciplinary initiatives [Bates, Burke, Byrne, Kinnaird, Prave, Rae, Raub, Wilson].
        Much of our research incorporates expertise from outside the conventional sphere of Earth
        science and here we highlight three initiatives that will be central in our interdisciplinary
        research and impact efforts to address the sharpest challenges in sustainability:
            o We are forging linkages with the School of Chemistry’s Centre for Innovation in
                Energy Storage. Our aim is to establish a one-stop-shop combining R&D with state-
                of-the-art climate science, including potential for CCS/U industry-academia
                integration, to reveal how such technologies impact on environment. Supported by
                the Scottish Government’s commitment to adopting materials, products and policy
                based on sustainable life cycle analysis, we are poised to leverage academic
                expertise within the wider Scottish technology and policy base to build toward a
                carbon-neutral economy in-line with governmental target dates.
            o We are coordinating efforts to develop an up-scalable model of a University-scope
                ‘Digital Twin’ focused on carbon-oriented operations across the University Estate,
                inclusive of its energy and innovation campus (Eden Campus)
            o We will strengthen our links with researchers in Anthropology, Art History,
                Archaeology, Classics, Computer Science and History to: (i) establish heritage
                preservation and protocols via novel digital geo-archaeological investigations using
                UAV-multispectral and land-marine geophysical survey methods supplemented by
                geochemical analysis and optically stimulated luminescence (OSL) dating and (ii)
                apply modern methods of climate science to refine and deepen understanding of
                the historical scope and scale of climate-human interactions.

 Cogency between research strategies of the School of Earth and Environmental Sciences
 and University of St Andrews. The University of St Andrews has articulated an overarching
 research strategy aimed at encouraging activities categorised under four main themes: Global St
 Andrews, World-leading St Andrews, Diverse St Andrews and Entrepreneurial St Andrews (ILES,
 2.5). In-line with the University’s request to engage with those research activities, during the
 REF2021 census period we have:
     • hosted more than 20 visiting scholars from institutions in ODA-listed countries (Tanzania,
        Malawi, Armenia), the United States and Brazil with support from the Leverhulme Trust,
        The Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland and by University of St Andrews
        Fellowships; their collaborative research activities during their tenure at St Andrews have
        led to 7 research outputs and 5 funding applications
     • helped establish a UK-based renewable energy SME company (TownRock Ltd) and an
        analytical company dedicated to luminescence dating (CERSA Luminescence). CERSA
        luminescence has active commercial and research projects in 14 countries across 4
        continents and underpins interdisciplinary research in fields as diverse as archaeology,
        classics, ecology, environmental science, geology, history and sociology.
     • embedded consultancy skills training into research-led teaching such that our students
        availed themselves of secondment and internship opportunities with UK and Scottish
        governments and industry partners (see Postdoctoral-Postgraduate Community sections).
 To motivate implementation of its strategy, the University highlighted four priority areas of research
 for which individual Schools were challenged to align as best as possible their own research
 strategies; these are: Evolution-Behaviour-Environment, Materials for The Modern World-
 Sustainability, Cultural Understanding and Health-Infectious Disease-Wellbeing. Our alignment to
 each of those priority areas includes (Fig. 3):
     • Evolution-Behaviour-Environment Priority Area [Allison, Burke, Byrne, Claire, Cousins,
         Finch, Mikhail, Rae, Savage, Steele, Stüeken, Zerkle]. Our contributions to this area are
         via two main pathways:
             o building zero-carbon economies is a goal that cuts across national boundaries and
                 we coordinate activities to address this challenge through our nascent Climate
                 Dynamics Group and leadership in the University’s interdisciplinary Network for
                 Climate, Energy, Environment and Sustainability
             o knowledge of planetary habitability is central to understand life’s origin and
                 evolution on Earth and potentially elsewhere in the Universe; we engage in this

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                quest through the University’s Centre for Exoplanet Science and collaborative
                research coordinated with the European and UK Space Agencies.
    •   Materials for The Modern World-Sustainability Priority Area [Bates, Finch, Gardiner,
        Kinnaird, McCarthy, Raub]. We engage in this priority area through two main avenues:
            o In November 2019 the University established its Environmental Sustainability
                Board (ESB) to coordinate the breadth of University activities and its estate in that
                area. Byrne co-chairs the ESB’s Research Working Group with the aim to identify
                key initiatives and position the University as a leader in environmental sustainability
                research (Byrne recently secured £86k to begin making this vision a reality).
            o Our on-going Global Challenges Research Fund supported work is developing
                initiatives in green energy and resources, environmental change and natural
                hazards (earthquakes) in ODA-listed countries of Angola, Armenia, Ethiopia,
                Malawi, Nigeria, Rwanda, Tanzania and Vietnam.
    •   Cultural Understanding Priority Area [Bates, Kinnaird, Raub]. Our expertise in shallow
        marine and land-based geophysical surveying techniques, combined with OSL dating,
        underpins interdisciplinary collaborations between Earth sciences, archaeology,
        anthropology, computer science and sociology. This has led to Royal Society award-
        winning research in the reconstruction of marine (palaeo)landscapes (Doggerland, palaeo-
        English Channel) and new discoveries and documentation of UNESCO World Heritage
        sites such as at Stonehenge and Heart of Neolithic Orkney in the UK and Kilwa Kisimani
        and Leaky Lateoli in Tanzania.
    •   Health-Wellbeing Priority Area [Stephens]. Expertise in mineralogy and petrology led to
        novel application of geochemistry to identify and model vaporisation processes between
        minerals captured by tobacco leaf and the chemical components of e-cigarettes. This work
        defined a cancer potency spectrum for tobacco, now influential in policies of governments,
        health agencies and the tobacco industry worldwide.




 Section 2. People
 Staffing Strategy and Development. Our staffing strategy was to build expertise in
 environmental, geochemical and planetary science to complement our traditional assets of field
 geology and petrology. By 2017, our strategy established a nuclei of isotope geochemistry and
 environmental change and strategic hiring providing expertise in geobiology and planetary
 habitability. We eschew like-for-like replacement and opt for targeting rising world-class
 researchers who bring added-value to our research. A key principle we insist upon is that a hire

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 must commit to our ethos to provide a diverse, inclusive environment of open-minded critical
 thinking aimed at promoting a scientifically literate and informed society (ILES, 3.2). Our approach
 has both broadened access to job opportunities and enabled recruited colleagues to best engage
 with and respond to evolving global research agendas across a variety of topics and themes,
 cogent with adapting needs to opportunities.
 Understanding Earth system functioning requires integrating, analysing and interpreting data
 gleaned from geological archives, geochemical proxies and environmental modelling. To achieve
 that complementarity, the School has a healthy mix of field- and lab/modelling-focussed staff (Fig.
 4): five are mainly field-based researchers, nine blend field- with lab/modelling-based studies and
 ten conduct primarily lab and desk/cloud-
 based modelling work integral to research
 that drives collaborations between
 multiple School colleagues and others
 across the Science Faculty. Staff reliant
 on computer modelling are supported by
 the University’s centralised data storage
 resources and HPC assets available for
 funded projects within time-managed
 workflows. Our most computing-intensive
 colleague uses NERC HPC facilities for
 Global Climate Model scenarios. Other
 staff purchase cloud-computing services
 for image analysis projects.
 Because fieldwork, analytical lab work and computing research carry different cost burdens, and
 because UKRI demand manage NERC standard grants, the School has self-managed NERC-
 targeted grant applications aiming to ensure primary users access to and management of our most
 cost-intensive analytical facilities. We support and encourage grant applications to the widest
 range of funders; for example, outside our natural NERC-funding framework colleagues have won
 ERC grants [Claire, Rae], AHRC funding [Bates, Kinnaird], support from charitable trusts
 [numerous staff], defence and government research contracts [Bates] as well as support from
 overseas research agencies [Kinnaird, Rae, Savage, Wilson] and industry [Bates, Finch, Kinnaird,
 McCarthy, Prave, Rae, Raub]. We also pursue external funding to pump-prime NERC and ERC
 research programmes, examples include the International Continental Scientific Drilling
 Programme [Prave, Rose] and UK Space Agency and STFC [Cousins, Mikhail, Stüeken].
 The School reserves part of its operations budget for targeted support of early career researchers,
 and we spend half of our direct-grant returns on research cross-subsidy. This ensures that all
 colleagues have sufficient funding to sustain active publication habits and for seed-corn support
 of fieldwork or analyses generating preliminary data motivating larger grant proposals. More than
 half of our successful NERC and ERC awards in the REF2021 census period drew on pre-
 application cross-subsidised support to collate preliminary data and build research networks.
 State-of-the-art analytical facilities require ambitious and capable technical support. The University
 has supported hiring three Research Officers [Kinnaird, Magalhaes, Steele] and one permanent
 technical support staff [Fischer] in the REF2021 census period. Each has access to professional
 development opportunities that provide career promotion prospects, including shared use of
 equipment and research collaborations between the Schools of Earth and Environmental
 Sciences, Chemistry and Biology. One Research Officer [Steele] has received a competitive
 independent research grant (Carnegie Trust) to develop Ni-isotope methodology to examine the
 source of proto-planetary materials and investigate thermal events in the early Solar System.
 Another Research Officer [Kinnaird] has won £241k of grant income supporting our OSL
 laboratory. The third Research Officer [Magalhaes] won a start-up grant for investigating deep
 subsurface life in extreme environments and brings igneous petrology and stable isotopic fluid
 inclusion analysis expertise to our IR-MS labs. All three Research Officers have research
 independence written into their contracts.
 All staff can access CPD courses through the University’s professional staff development unit
 (OSDS: Organisational and Staff Development Services). For example, data obtained for the

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School’s AthenaSWAN 2019 application showed that between April 2017 through to October 2018
 colleagues participated in 84 University-led professional development and training courses (ILES,
 3.1). To further enhance research career pathway opportunities, we also encourage our Research
 Officers to supervise BSc Honours, MGeol, MSc and PhD student dissertations.

 Postdoctoral Community. Currently, we have 14 Research Fellows (7 female, 7 male) and,
 spanning the REF2021 census period, 24 Research Fellows (12 male, 12 female) helped
 undertake the School’s research activities, 8 bringing their own funding. Of these, 5 have been
 made permanent staff members in the School, 4 obtained permanent academic positions at other
 institutions, 3 won independent Research Fellowships (1 remaining within the School) and 3 have
 secured employment to their satisfaction. Fellows organise an early career support programme
 and an annual research retreat, supported by School operational funds, and contribute to School
 Council meetings, access University and School mentorship schemes and may co-supervise BSc
 Honours, MSc and PhD students.
 To support activities bespoke to our Postdoctoral community, £5k/year is set aside from our
 operations budget for careers-related activities delivered by a diverse cross-section of School and
 external colleagues. Examples include:
     • creation of an Early Career Researcher Forum, a congenial setting to provide information,
        support and insight about careers and research
     • an annual two-day Fellow-led team building event held at The Burn, Glenesk, Scotland
     • a programme for mental health and well-being run jointly with the University’s Advice and
        Occupational Health Support Centre
     • an Early Career Researcher Grievance Policy produced by the Research Fellow
        community and endorsed by School Council to help resolve issues-of-concern that could
        arise within the School
     • day-long Careers Workshops such as: How are Fellowship proposals reviewed?; So, you
        want to get a Fellowship?; Getting Published; How to write academic CV’s and Cover
        Letters (n.b.: these Workshops are also open to our PhD students)
     • professional development activities in which Fellows organise Workshops open to the
        entire School community to share solutions to commonly faced issues and offer avenues
        of new learning ranging from teaching languages to analytical methods platforms

 Postgraduate Community. The School is a member of NERC’s IAPETUS2 (formerly IAPETUS)
 Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP; includes Durham, Glasgow, Heriot-Watt, Newcastle and
 Stirling Universities, and British Geological Survey and Centre for Ecology and Hydrology). Thirty-
 six PhD students (17 female, 19 male) have contributed to School activities during the REF2021
 census period and support is divided approximately evenly between NERC (n=10: 9 IAPETUS
 DTP, 1 SoS RARE Consortium), University-sponsored awards [n=12, including 4 matched
 studentships triggered by NERC DTP awards] and School- or external-partner-funded non-UKRI
 awards (n=14). Within the REF2021 census period, 12 PhD students have graduated and likely
 c. 15 will do so by the close of REF2021. Twenty-three colleagues have (co)supervised at least 1
 PhD student (average=3, max=8).
 For University- and School-supported PhD studentships, the School commits £11.5k/student to
 match NERC’s Research Training Support Grant (NERC RTSGs have ranged between £7-13k).
 DTP-supported PhD students can apply for competitive access to NERC Shared Instrument
 Facilities and 11 of 36 PhD students have won 12 in-kind grants exceeding £400k in net value to
 support analyses at those Facilities. IAPETUS2 students have access to reciprocal agreements
 made by five of the other fifteen DTPs to share skills training and networking opportunities.
 Further, the Scottish Alliance for Geoscience, Environment and Society (SAGES) allows
 IAPETUS2 DTP students access to its annual retreat, training programmes, international
 collaboration facilitation funds and industry/public-body placement schemes.
 Across all funding avenues, eight of our thirty-six PhD students have pursued research activities
 aligned with industrial priorities (one formal NPIF studentship, two NERC-CASE studentships).
 Externally funded PhD studentships include two by the Nigerian State Oil Company, one by First
 Quantum Minerals, two by the Marine Alliance for Science and Technology for Scotland and five

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by the UK Space Agency. All St Andrews planetary-science students and colleagues are members
 of the Scottish Planetary SciEnce Research NetwOrk (SPERO), which connects researchers with
 relevant analytical facilities across Scotland and accelerates promoting collaboration. Our
 interdisciplinary Centre for Exoplanet Science successfully funded one PhD student in 2018, two
 in 2019, and one in 2020, and each Science School member contributes between £3-5k/year to
 administer the Centre.
 The University provides partial subsidy of Chinese Gov Scholarship Scheme studentships and
 other bespoke international and interdisciplinary studentships, as well as matched studentships
 triggered by its commitment to the NERC DTP consortium following initial, cross-consortium
 competitive awarding of standard DTP studentships. The University also subsidises tuition fees
 so that PhD student costs are similar, i.e. same base-level cost, no matter their country of origin,
 which helps contribute to the global reach of School research.

 Postgraduate-Postdoctoral Community: professional development. The School uses its
 operations budget to support PhD students with grants up to £500 for travel and up to £1,000 for
 opportunistic research, subject to writing a 2-page proposal assessed, with feedback, by the
 School’s Postgraduate Student Research Committee (consists of Directors of Research and
 Postgraduate Study and three rotating staff members). PhD students supported by the IAPETUS2
 DTP have preferential access to bespoke training courses within the DTP and also to government
 secondments; one has taken up such a secondment, which led directly to employment and two
 non-DTP-funded students have taken up a St Andrews University funded secondment. Non-DTP
 PhD students have used School-supported RTSG and external, competitive student-sought
 support (e.g. Russell Trust, Society of Economic Geologists, Mineralogical Society, Mining
 Institute of Scotland Trust, Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining) to gain professional
 development and skills training in areas as diverse as software engineering, UAV theory and
 practical operations, and to undertake research in industrial settings where the original studentship
 was not classified as CASE or NPIF.

 School Community: Equality-Diversity-Inclusion (EDI). The School holds an Athena Swan-
 Bronze award. The 2019 application incorporated an array of statistics and survey data and the
 following summarises key aspects of our equality, diversity, inclusion and fairness policies; survey
 response was 100% for School staff and 95% for our postgraduate and postdoctoral communities:
    •   100% of female and male colleagues believe the School is a welcoming workplace
    •   93% of female and 95% of male colleagues believe the School handles EDI issues well
    •   92% of female and male colleagues believe the School is well managed
    •   88% of female and male colleagues believe decision-making is broad-based and that their
        views are listened to and influence policy
    •   93% of female and 100% of male colleagues agreed that School social activities are
        welcoming to all
    •   100% of staff agree that the School’s leave policy is operating well for long-term issues
    •   since becoming an independent School, research seminars and career presentations have
        averaged 45% female speakers
 The School has a relatively flat management structure (Fig. 5) designed to promote engagement
 and buy-in across the entire School community. Management decisions are made at monthly
 meetings of Core Group (Head of School, Directors of Impact, Postgraduate, Research, and
 Teaching, and Equality-Diversity-Inclusion and Health-and-Safety Officers; six males, two
 females) and these are open to all colleagues, barring when sensitive matters require
 confidentiality. School Council is the overarching decision-making body, chaired by the Head of
 School and comprised of all School staff and representatives from the various student bodies.
 Workload is guided by the School’s Workload Model (WLM), which is 100% transparent and open
 access to all academic staff; it is used solely as a management tool and is not used by Head of
 School for promotion purposes. The WLM is updated every semester and captures hour-by-hour
 data on teaching (lectures, practicals, fieldwork), admin (hours agreed by School Council) and



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                                   supervision. Colleagues are
                                                                   asked to examine the WLM and,
                                                                   if they feel their hours need to be
                                                                   revised, a conversation is held
                                                                   and mutual agreement reached
                                                                   with the Head of School and
                                                                   Director of Teaching. New hires
                                                                   and early career colleagues are
                                                                   given as much as possible
                                                                   reduced teaching loads in their
                                                                   first two years in order to build
                                                                   their research programmes.
 For promotions, an informal mentoring scheme was instituted in 2016 for younger colleagues to
 discuss strategies with senior colleagues. In 2017, an internal promotion review committee was
 created to offer guidance to applicants via friendly review and constructive feedback prior to
 submitting applications to the University’s promotion board. The committee is gender-balanced
 and includes a Professorial-level female colleague from the Science Faculty outside the School.
 Since these actions were instituted, our promotions success rate has improved such that every
 staff member in a research and education role has been promoted from where they were in 2014
 to their current level: 10 of 10 promotions have been successful, of which 4 are female.
 All colleagues are offered the opportunity for informal feedback on research grant applications by
 Head of School and Director of Research; several external senior colleagues act as friendly
 reviewers. We hold mock interviews for colleagues to hone their presentations in instances where
 panel interviews are required; in 2018-19 this included mock interviews for three Research
 Fellowships (1 female, 2 male), ERC Starting Grant (1 male) and two faculty positions (1 female,
 1 male). We also financially support colleagues who need specialist training courses through
 application to the staff-training fund underwritten by our operations budget---obtaining such funds
 requires a short justification (a few paragraphs) and is assessed by Head of School and Director
 of Research; to date, all such requests have been approved. Directors of Research and Impact
 inform colleagues regularly about what funding opportunities are available (this information is
 provided by St Andrews’ Research & Innovation Services and Business Development teams).
 Colleagues can also apply to the University’s Caring Fund (ILES, 3.1) to attend external courses
 or seminars to help with costs associated with childcare or elderly parents up to £1k per annum.
 Core Working hours are 10:00-16:00. In instances when childcare cannot be arranged, children
 are welcome to attend any and all meetings. All School social activities welcome families, inclusive
 of children, partners and parents alike. Our policy for staff leave follows HR guidelines, and we
 redistribute workload as fairly as possible guided by our WLM. School policy on flexible hours is
 to be as accommodating as possible. Colleagues provide a brief justification to Head of School
 and their Line Manager and all reasonable requests for flexi time are agreed.
 Our recruitment process is discussed openly with all staff and all are invited to be involved in the
 shortlisting process. Meetings are organised during which applicants are ranked and feedback is
 provided to the interview panel members. In line with University policy, all shortlists are gender-
 inclusive and interview panels consist of both female and male members.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income. The School has won £16.5M in research- and impact-related funding during the REF2021
 census period. UKRI and Scottish Government Funding Councils account for about half of our
 competitively won grant income and 34% of those awards (n=35) are Impact specific. For the
 REF2021 census period, REF-returned staff averaged 1 grant award per year (166 awards over
 5 years, 23 staff) with an average award of c. £700k per staff (median≈£300k). That income is
 broken down as follows:




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                 Amount awarded              Total number of
                Funding agency
                                                 (period 2014-20)                awards
                                            UKRI
  NERC                                                £5.02M
  AHRC                                                 £1.2M                 55 (10 are Impact
  STFC                                                 £338k                      specific)
  EPSRC                                                £200k
                                 European Research Council
  ERC Starter Grant                                   £3.48M                        2
                                Trusts, Foundations, Charities
  Carnegie Trust for Univ. of Scotland                 £500k                        11
  Leverhulme Trust                                     £510k                         4
                                                                             16 (3 are Impact
  various agencies                                       £450k
                                                                                 specific)
                                    Scottish Government
  Scottish Funding Council and Scottish                                      32 (20 are Impact
                                                    £1.4M
  Technology and Facilities Council                                               Specific
                                Commercial contract work
                                                                             11 (2 are Impact
  Various industry partners                              £690k
                                                                                 specific)
  OSL Lab (CERSA Luminescence)                          £241k                        8
                     International Continental Scientific Drilling Program
  GRIND: Geological Research through
                                                      $600USD                       1
  Integrated Neoproterozoic Drilling
                                      GeoBus funding
  EPSRC, NERC, Royal Society, Verus, Shell              £1.1M
                                  NERC Instrument Facilities
  In-kind grants                                        £425k                       10
                              Global Challenges Research Fund
  Staff research grants                                 £375k                       16

 Infrastructure and Facilities. Our facilities have evolved and grown in concert with our staffing
 strategy. Our goal is to have the capability to identify, trace and time processes in systems ranging
 from ocean and atmosphere circulation, biospheric evolution, terrestrial geodynamics, to planetary
 differentiation and formation of the solar system. As highlighted in Section 1, several of our labs
 are unique to the UK, being replicated in only a few institutions worldwide, and all are comparable
 to the best worldwide. The facilities underpin three main analytical clusters: isotope geochemistry,
 geobiology-astrobiology and materials characterisation with the following equipment:
      • Nu instruments Sapphire CC-MC-ICP-MS; this is the newest generation of collision cell
         multi-collector inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers able to perform kinetic and
         chemical reactions on ion beams allowing for removal of interferences (e.g. 40Ar from 40Ca)
         and thereby opening new avenues of research and transforming precision in isotope ratio
         mass spectrometry
      • ThermoFisher Neptune MC-ICP-MS for measuring the isotope compositions of a wide
         range of elements at very low blank and sample mass and at ultra-high precision;
         a coupled gas chromatograph (GC) on the Neptune allows for measurement of isotope
         ratios in specific organic compounds
      • Agilent 8900 QQQ-ICP-MS for measurement of elemental concentrations in solution and
         via laser ablation; includes collision cell and pre-cell mass filter to allow both simple
         reactions to eliminate interferences and mass shift analyses to insert elements of interest
         into a pre-cleaned mass range
      • Two Class-100 metal-free clean rooms support much of the above mass spectrometry and
         enable meticulous preparation of materials; these labs maintain an over-pressured
         environment that prevents contamination of trace level samples and, notably, are some of
         the first in the world to be designed to be completely boron-free


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A RESOlution Excimer laser with cryocell can be coupled to the Neptune, Sapphire and
        8900 QQQ-ICP-MS in any combination for analyses of a range of solid materials for
        geochronological and chemical tracing applications including analysis of frozen fluid
        inclusions in ice and tissues
    •   Two Thermo-Finnigan MAT-253 isotope-ratio mass spectrometers (IR-MS), one with
        custom-built fluorination manifold capable of measuring all four isotopes of sulphur and the
        other dedicated to measuring major carbon, nitrogen and sulphur isotopes, including
        nitrogen in ppm-levels with a custom-built tube cracker line
    •   A Trace 1310-ISQ GC-MS for characterisation of organic compounds in natural and
        synthetic samples and used in combination with custom-built lightning-discharge
        experiment equipment
    •   Dedicated laser ablation lab with a New Wave Deep-UV (193 nm) Excimer laser, coupled
        to an Agilent 7500a ICP-MS and a Nu-Plasma MC-ICP-MS for simultaneous in situ
        analysis of trace elements and radiogenic isotopes (U-Pb Lu-Hf) in a range of solid
        materials for geochronological and chemical tracing applications
    •   Cavity ringdown mass spectrometer capable of measuring all three isotopes of oxygen in
        natural water samples and nitrate minerals
    •   Delta+XP IR-MS with Gasbench II and TC/EA optimised for stable isotope measurements
        of carbon and oxygen in carbonates and for oxygen in various oxide minerals
    •   Thermo iCAP 6300 ICP-OES used for obtaining major and minor element compositions
        from a range of sample types, and one XRF spectrometer and one X-ray diffractometer for
        routine materials analyses
    •   Shimadzu 8040 Ultra Liquid Chromatography with triple quadrupole mass spectrometry for
        quantifying environmental organic compounds and determining reaction pathways
    •   Jeol JXA-iSP100 electron probe microanalyser (EPMA), Jeol JSM-F100 FEG electron
        microscope with a SXES detector (one of only 2 in the UK), JSM-IT200 electron
        microscope and Renishaw Confocal Raman Microscope for state-of-the-art non-
        destructive analyses of natural and synthetic substances
    •   out-of-phase magnetic susceptibility kappabridge capable of field-dependent, anisotropy
        tensor and thermal evolution analyses
    •   active shielding-housed thermal-, pulse-, and alternating field-demagnetisers supporting a
        spinner magnetometer as well as magnetic susceptibility apparatus optimised for whole or
        split drill cores, polished rock slabs and natural outcrops
    •   the UK’s only time-resolved wavelength multiplexed spectrometer lab capable of in situ
        analysis of the energy state (luminescence) of minerals and high field strength and REE
        composition of igneous rocks
    •   luminescence dating lab with dedicated sample preparation facilities, containing DA-15
        and DA-20 Risø OSL and TL readers for dating of sediment and heated materials, a
        miDose µdose unit for low-level environmental radioactivity measurements and portable
        OSL reader, two Ortec micronomads and 1 GF Instruments Gamma Surveyor Vario for
        measuring luminescence in the field
    •   experimental petrology lab for studying elemental partitioning and isotopic fractionation at
        pressure-temperature conditions simulating those in the upper mantle and lower crust
    •   a coral-culturing facility for controlled simulation of ocean-atmosphere chemistry to assess
        biogeochemical response to rising CO2 and its impact on shallow-marine biodiversity
    •   a set of ion chromatography and electrochemistry columns and modules, and UV-VIS
        spectrophotometers, optimised for measuring concentrations of many cations and most
        anions abundant at trace levels in natural aqueous solutions and for measuring parameters
        of natural fluids relevant to carbonate saturation state
    •   imaging suite with Keyence VHX-30003-D digital super-resolution microscope, custom-
        built cathode-luminescence microscope and Olympus and Leica research microscopes
    •   three UAV drones, one capable of payloads up to 2 kg, outfitted with VIS-NIR hyperspectral
        cameras, a devoted high-performance geospatial analysis and 3-D reconstruction
        workstation and a portable UV-VIS-NIR spectrometer (TerraSpec)



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   rock and mineral preparation suite with saws, thin-sectioning and magnetic separation
        equipment and a Wilfley table. Drill coring equipment includes a core-splitting saw with 4-
        m pass-through length and two Vibracorers capable of BQ collection to 10 m depths.
 Our geobiology and astrobiology facilities are supplemented with field portable multimeters and
 aqueous sensors to determine compositions of natural waters, a wet chemical distillation line to
 support Fe speciation measurements in mudrocks and carbonates, and an environmental DNA
 and RNA laboratory for preparing and assessing genetic material and products in vivo and in vitro
 for metagenomic analysis.
 Environmental and geo-archaeological geophysical investigations make use of field
 electromagnetic conductivity, resistivity, induced polarisation and geomagnetic surveys together
 with drone-based and handheld hyper- and multi-spectral and magnetic susceptibility
 instrumentation. For nearshore marine survey the School has a 7m vessel, Swordsman, coded to
 12 NM. We also benefit from NERC’s geophysical shared instrument facility in Edinburgh.
 Students and staff can travel with any of our portable equipment to characterise rocks, cores and
 soils in situ or in curated archives.
 We access collaboratively and, in some cases, co-manage additional equipment focused on solid
 material characterisation (XRD, laser diffraction granulometer) and physical chemistry (zeta
 potentiometer, differential calorimeter, thermal gravimeter). The School also pursues co-
 capitalisation of new analytical facilities through interdisciplinary avenues (ILES 4.2). Colleagues
 can access the University’s electron microscope facility, which houses two TEMs, a SEM with FIB
 and EBSC capability, in addition to the EPMA and SXES-SEM listed above. Collaborations with
 the Schools of Chemistry and Physics & Astronomy focus on Magnetic Properties Measurement
 and Physical Properties Measurement systems (MPMS/PPMS), as well Nuclear Magnetic
 Remanence (NMR), to use atomic force and scanning tunnelling microscopy techniques to image
 crystal and mineral-cleavage faces.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 REF-eligible staff collaborate actively with researchers in 31 UK universities, forty institutions in
 twenty-seven countries on five continents, ten Geological Surveys, twelve companies and thirteen
 governmental and parastatal organisations. The breadth of our international collaboration
 networks and partnerships can be ascertained objectively using two metric measures from the
 2020 ShanghaiRanking’s Academic Rankings of World Universities of 500 Earth Science
 departments and their publications between 2014-18. The two metrics (Fig. 6A-B), International
 Collaborations (papers with 2 or more international-based co-authors) and Category Normalised
 Citation Index, reveal that the School of Earth and Environmental Sciences (SEES) ranks with the
 top universities worldwide and has, year-on-year, continued to improve that ranking.




 Within St Andrews, we help lead, (co)Chair and/or contribute to the:
    • Centre for Exoplanet Science [Claire, Cousins, Mikhail, Savage, Steele, Stüeken, Zerkle]
    • Centre for Archaeology, Technology and Cultural Heritage [Bates, Kinnaird, Raub, Wilson]
    • Centre for Ancient Environmental Studies [Bates, Kinnaird, Raub]
    • Centre for Innovation in Energy Storage [Bates, Prave, Raub]
    • The Scottish Oceans Institute’s Gatty Marine Laboratory [Allison, Burke, Rae]
    • Steering Group for the University’s nascent Institute of Engineering [Raub]
                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   St Andrews Environmental Sustainability Board and Research Group [Bates, Byrne, Finch,
        Rae, Raub, Wilson]
    •   St Andrews Network for Climate, Energy, Environment and Sustainability [Byrne, Rae,
        Wilson, numerous staff from the Science and Arts & Humanities faculties, ILES, 2.5]
 Outside the University, our contributions to broad-based initiatives are diverse. Specific
 professional organisations, societies and government engagement includes:
     • Scottish interdisciplinary pooling initiatives: Marine Alliance for Science and Technology
        for Scotland (MASTS) and Scottish Alliance for Geoscience, Environment and Society
        (SAGES) and Palaeoenvironmental and Archaeological Sciences Scotland [Allison, Bates,
        Burke, Byrne, Hutchison, Rae, Wilson, Zerkle]
     • Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Young Academy of Scotland [Cousins, Rae]
     • a variety of expert consulting on environmental and health issues for the Scottish and UK
        governments [Bates, Raub, Stephens]
     • leading Geological Society London’s Energy and Materials Transition initiative [Gardiner]
     • Shell’s Brent Decommissioning Advisory Group [Bates, Prave, Raub]
     • Scottish Carbon Capture and Storage organisation [Bates, Prave, Raub]
     • European and UK Space Agencies [Cousins]
     • NASA Virtual Planetary Lab [Claire, Stüeken]
 We also contribute to national and international initiatives via the following:
   • Our NERC- and GCRF-funded projects in Ethiopia and Malawi have involved studies in
       de-risking geothermal energy [Bates, Hutchison, Raub, Robinson, Stephens]. In 2016 the
       School won a competitive Stage 1 Feasibility grant through the Scottish Government’s Low
       Carbon Infrastructure Transition Programme to explore the potential for turning the
       University’s nearby Eden Campus into a geothermal heat demonstrator project (Robinson
       et al. 2016. Geothermal Hot Sedimentary Aquifer Heat in Scotland, The Guardbridge
       Project). Eden Campus is an industrial brownfield site that shares ecological and industrial
       challenge characteristics with other brownfield sites nationwide. Another example involves
       the UK-GEOS (Geothermal Observatories) programme to prove a low-enthalpy
       geothermal mine-water resource. For its preliminary studies, the BGS used 3-D models of
       coal mine works digitised by our BSc Geology Honours students who used legacy Coal
       Authority paper plans as part of this collaborative research activity.
   • In support of the UK-Scottish Governments’ Tay Cities deal, we contribute to a developing
       plan spearheaded by the School of Chemistry’s Centre for Innovation in Energy Storage.
       We provide geological, geochemical and climate modelling expertise across climate
       change and resource systems topical to foci aimed at addressing the emerging challenges
       to the Circular/Zero-Carbon Economy. These challenges are faced by Universities globally
       and by UK and European industrial partners across a range of sectors. Our efforts intersect
       with an explicit £29.5M commitment by the UK Government to develop an energy and
       innovation R&D hub on the University’s Eden Campus (ILES, 4.3).
   • Our expertise in climate science will guide policy recommendations in the next Assessment
       Report (6th) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change for which two colleagues
       are contributing in chapters on past climates [Rae] and on cyclonic storm and global
       precipitation patterns [Byrne]. Although AR6 will be published in 2022, postdating the REF
       2021 output period, research and impact activities contributing to and arising from its
       composition are ongoing. These activities support the UK and Scottish Governments’ stake
       in and commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement, and they support both
       Governments’ targets for renewable energy provision and a zero-carbon future.
   • We contribute to St Andrews’ portfolio of Scottish Government and variously UKRI-
       championed Global Challenge Research Fund activities via participation by 13 staff across
       16 funded projects over the past four years. The University has established an internal
       GCRF Steering Group to identify best practices and build St Andrews’ GCRF portfolio in
       ODA-compliant research, and a School colleague sits on that board [Bates]. We help guide
       the University’s Environmental Sustainability Board (ESB) to develop an environmental
       sustainability strategy for the University over the entire scope of University activities; the


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        ESB’s Research Working Group is co-chaired by another colleague [Byrne] and is tasked
        with identifying environmental/sustainability research cogent with University strategy.
    •   Our GeoBus mobile educational outreach programme delivers bespoke education and in-
        person sessions by multiple School staff and students to primary and secondary school
        pupils across Scotland (>70,000 individual pupils in 278 schools). It informs about future
        education and career track decisions and broadens access by delivering frontline research
        results and fun, hands-on exemplary activities to students crossing all scales of
        depravation and remoteness: 81% of visited schools are identified by the Scottish
        Government as being in Remote Small Towns or Rural Areas, 49% are in the top 25% of
        deprived catchments with 41% of those in the top 15%. GeoBus’ resources have been
        downloaded in 79 countries and, as far as we know, it is one of the most-accessed
        University-driven in-person science educational outreach programmes anywhere.
    •   As detailed in our Impact Case Studies, active research programmes engage with
        initiatives that range from global medical science and technology policy and practice, to
        awareness and response to climate change and other natural hazards, to stewardship of
        Earth’s natural resources. Cross-disciplinary partnerships between School staff, computer
        scientists, classicists and historians are making global impact in ODA countries in heritage
        resources, their preservation and management that address UN Sustainable Development
        goals. Further, our Music Planet initiative (established in 2017) brings together scientists,
        artists and musicians both within St Andrews and across the UK to create and design
        events that investigate the relationship between humans and their environment through
        the performing arts. Since its formation, over 100 artists have participated with academics
        to engage +3000 participants with inspirational stories about Earth history and our shared
        responsibility as stewards for Earth’s future environment and biosphere.
 In summary, the School’s contributions to research and impact span from the fundamental to the
 applied. We have undertaken a trajectory that started post-RAE2008 in which geoscience
 research was incorporated within a School of Geography and Geoscience (SGG) that was ranked
 17th in the UK. In 2010, six geoscience staff within that School were given quasi-autonomy to
 develop a strategy to create world-class geoscientific research and the implementation of that
 strategy contributed to propelling SGG to a ranking of 5th overall in REF2014. Since then, we have
 formed an independent School of Earth and Environmental Sciences comprised of 23 REF-
 returnable researchers whose shared vision is to ensure that we remain firmly within the cohort of
 the finest Earth and environmental science programmes worldwide.




                                                                                             Page 16
