Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
18 - Law
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview

The current REF period has been a period of extraordinary growth and success for Essex Law
School. Securing considerable University investment, the School expanded substantially, from 32
FTEs in the REF 2014 to 82.9 in REF 2021. Our growth strategy has focused on maximising the
richness, vibrancy and sustainability of our research environment, while maintaining our culture of
community and collaboration. We strive to provide the best opportunity for legal research to flourish
in an inclusive and facilitative environment for scholars at all career levels, from PGR students to
distinguished professors.

Our research confronts pressing regional, national and international problems and aims to further
the cause of justice and improve people’s lives. We believe that complex legal problems require
creative, imaginative thinking across legal and other disciplines. To achieve our aspirations and be
truly transformative, we encourage novel research (e.g. in AI, post-human theory, law and arts),
and intra-, inter- and multidisciplinary work of the highest relevance for academics, policymakers,
civil society, business and industry. The recently published research collection titled ‘COVID-19,
Law and Human Rights: Essex Dialogues’ (June 2020) demonstrates our agility in responding to
questions of unprecedented social importance. This Essex School of Law and Human Rights
Centre (HRC) publication brings together thirty-six members of the School from different areas of
law with colleagues from the University’s School of Health and Social Care, other academic
institutions and NGOs, to address urgent legal, social and policy questions raised by the pandemic.

Through recruitment and research clusters, we consolidated our main peaks of excellence - human
rights, public law, and commercial law; fostered research intensity in other areas, in particular
health law, criminal justice and the use of socio-legal methods; and expanded into novel research
themes, including law and technology. The growth of our research in range and depth has been
accompanied by a corresponding investment in our mentoring, staff development and research
support processes.

The School’s extensive support for securing research funding has led to amazing success, with
half of our funding applications (96 out of 193) having been successful, resulting in awards of
£8,405,868 in funding from Research Councils, foundations, charities, international organisations,
and government departments. A major achievement is the almost £4,400,000 ESRC grant to
establish the interdisciplinary Essex Human Rights, Big Data and Technology Project (HRBDT),
which explores the human rights impacts of big data.

Recognition of the international excellence of our research and expertise includes, in particular:
Gilbert’s inaugural Chair of the Global Academic Interdisciplinary Network under the UN’s Global
Compact on Refugees; Hunt’s appointment as Chief Human Rights Commissioner of New Zealand
(2019); Lubell’s Swiss Chair of International Humanitarian Law at the Geneva Academy of
International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights (2014-2019); McGregor’s appointment to the
Equality and Human Rights Commission; and Sunkin’s appointment as QC Honoris Causa by the
Queen in 2018 in recognition of his major contribution to the law of England and Wales and
pioneering empirical work on judicial review.

1.2 Research strategy

Strategic aims

The strategic aims that guided our research in REF 2014 continue to be at the core of our research
strategy. They are to:

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      maintain the traditional values of legal scholarship – rigour, depth, and careful analysis –
       while fostering doctrinal and empirical research that shapes practice and policy
       development;
      address key global, regional and domestic legal issues by advancing legal thinking and
       contributing to practice and policy;
      further strengthen our capacity to undertake research which crosses legal sub-fields.

Achievements

We clearly achieved our REF 2014 goal to consolidate the School’s position as a global leader in
human rights research. Recruiting thirteen human rights scholars during this REF cycle, fifty-seven
academics of the School are now members of the interdisciplinary Human Rights Centre (HRC),
which is hosted by the School and forms an integral part of our identity, so that a human rights
focus is firmly infused in our research across most areas. This heavy investment in human rights
allowed us to continue producing world-leading research on international and regional human
rights law; to further strengthen our research on domestic human rights law and on economic,
social and cultural rights, and to enhance our capacity to adapt our research to new human rights
challenges.

Our flagship HRBDT project (see 1.1 above), created in 2015, stands at the forefront of human
rights research analysing the challenges and opportunities presented by AI, big data and
associated technology. Building on our longstanding work on international humanitarian law we
created the specialist Armed Conflict and Crisis Hub. The Essex Transitional Justice Network
(ETJN), Detention, Rights and Social Justice Project and Human Rights and Drug Policy Unit, all
based in the School under the umbrella of the HRC, have also provided cutting-edge legal analysis
and expertise. The research of all of these groupings contributed to impact case studies and
enriched our REF2 submission. We have, moreover, fostered a strong community-focused human
rights agenda, increasing our partnership with local communities within East Anglia. The HRC and
the Human Rights Cluster organise a rich programme of research events, including weekly talks
and seminars with outside speakers, as well as regular conferences.

We also achieved our goal of enhancing our research capacity in public law, especially in relation
to research on courts, from the perspective of their constitutional role and their place in dispute
resolution. Our long-standing expertise in public law was strengthened through recruitment of five
new colleagues and the establishment of the United Kingdom Administrative Justice Institute
(UKAJI). Created with funding from the Nuffield Foundation (2014-2017), UKAJI provides a virtual
hub for administrative law research across the UK. With involvement of academics from across the
School, at all career levels, including PGR, UKAJI hosts a vibrant research programme through
blogs, and workshops, often in collaboration with our Public Law Cluster. UKAJI has helped
support new areas of expertise during this REF cycle across a spectrum of administrative justice
issues, including on judicial review, special educational needs, ombuds, and the Court of
Protection, resulting in a range of publications included in REF2 and an impact case study. It
supported Le Sueur’s work with the Jersey Law Commission on designing a public services
ombuds for the island.

Our work on dispute resolution was boosted through five key appointments. We especially focus
on alternative dispute resolution (ADR), including research on the use of mediation in the Court of
Protection (partly funded by SLSA and ESRC IAA) and on how parties experience mediation.

A core strategic aim was to increase our capacity to undertake socio-legal research across all
subject areas, which was achieved through ten strategic appointments and regular training events,
which resulted in the launch of our Socio-Legal Studies Cluster in 2019.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Future strategic aims

These are to:

      Expand our efforts to create an inclusive, collegial and supportive environment that
       maximises the well-being and research potential of all colleagues through further enhanced
       mentoring, staff training and career support, assisted by our new Equality, Diversity and
       Inclusion Committee and the new role of Wellbeing and Community Development Officer.

      Maintain and increase our responsiveness to developments in law and society through
       further:

               consolidating our position as a world-leading centre for human rights and public law
                research;
               strengthening and expanding our expertise in business law, particularly as regards
                corporate social responsibility, banking and financial services; and
               developing the research strengths of our newer research clusters.

      Ensure our continued ability to be responsive to dynamic research opportunities and
       complex challenges, through further enhancing interdisciplinary work, by

               building on and expanding our extensive connections;
               linking our research with the University’s priorities in digital humanities, medical
                humanities and climate change; and
               supporting the Law, Business and Technology Interdisciplinary Hub, to be hosted by
                the Business Law Cluster in 2021.

      Build on and expand interaction with research users to strengthen the impact of our
       research and support incipient impact case studies to maximise their potential.

1.3 Research structure

We provide an enabling environment for collaborative, creative and innovative thinking capable of
generating cutting-edge research and impact. To facilitate closer research collaboration, we
established seven research clusters which are at the centre of our research culture. Three clusters
reflect the School’s main research strengths as mentioned in REF 2014: (i) commercial (now
business) law; (ii) human rights and (iii) public law. Our considerable growth in strategic areas
resulted in the emergence of four additional clusters in 2019 that cut across and complement our
original clusters: (iv) law and technology; (v) health law; (vi) criminal justice and (vii) socio-legal
studies.

Termly cross-cluster meetings and annual research away-days facilitate collaboration across
clusters. To encourage connections across all areas, within or outside of the themes of our existing
research clusters, the School supports formal and informal meetings, including coffee mornings or
zoom lunches, for groupings and activities to emerge naturally from our collegiate research
context. We have established reading groups to support areas of interest, for example on
speculative humanities and on law and theory.

1.4 Interdisciplinarity

Alongside research that crosses legal sub-fields, interdisciplinarity is integral to the School’s
approach to research. The HRC provides an excellent demonstration of this. With more than 130
members across 11 disciplines, it fosters collaboration through interdisciplinary research projects
and promotes multi and interdisciplinary dialogue at and beyond Essex through an extensive
events programme that includes public-facing lectures. HRC members and fellows meet termly to
discuss topical human rights issues across disciplines and develop ambitious projects, as typified
by the HRBDT which has brought together law, computer science, economics, philosophy, political

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
science and sociology. Detail on other interdisciplinary research hubs and projects under the
umbrella of the HRC is provided in section 4.4.

While the core focus of the School’s research clusters is law, we strongly encourage them to
engage with other disciplines. The School made available funding for research ‘speed-dating’
events to bring together members of the Business Law Cluster with colleagues from across the
University. Most of its members now work with colleagues in other disciplines (eg Antoniou with the
Journalism group in LiFTS on advertising standards and marketing communications; Guinchard
and Koutsias with computer scientists on the use of data analytics). To consolidate these links, the
Business Law Cluster initiated the Law, Business and Technology Interdisciplinary Hub, to be
launched in 2021. The Health Law Cluster has members from the School of Health and Social
Care and Philosophy and participates in the University’s Health and Medical Humanities Research
Network. The Criminal Justice, Public Law and Socio-Legal Clusters include members from
Sociology.

Colleagues are active members of cross-University interdisciplinary research centres that address
social problems that require creative interdisciplinary answers, such as the Centre for Environment
and Society (within the Business School) and the Centre for Criminology (Sociology Department),
co-authoring publications and co-organising research events as part of these projects. Other
examples of engagement with multidisciplinary initiatives beyond the School include: six
colleagues are members of the Speculative Humanities research cluster at Essex, an initiative led
by ECR Jones (Law). It brings together colleagues from Law; Literature, Film and Theatre Studies;
Sociology; and Art History to devise responses to emergent technologies and their social, cultural
and environmental impact. Kaime co-founded the cross-disciplinary Essex Development
Workshops. Seven colleagues participate in the University’s Digital Humanities research hub on
the impact of technology.

1.5 Impact

The School has a long-standing commitment to ensuring that its research influences government,
courts, civil society and international institutions and encourages active engagement with these
stakeholders. We welcome our academics to hold positions such as UN Special Rapporteurs
(Shaheed, Freedom of Religion); legal advisers to Parliamentary Committees (eg. Sunkin);
members of committees such as the British Equality and Human Rights Commission (McGregor,
2015-2019); the advisory bodies of NGOs (eg Van Ho, Investor Alliance for Human Rights) and
charities (Willett, Which?). We regularly contribute to UN and government consultations; provide
research-based expert advice to the UN, policymakers, NGOs, courts and businesses; litigate high
profile cases; submit amicus briefs that influence courts, and provide training across legal issues to
a wide range of practitioners (see section 4). These activities are promoted through mentoring,
training, secondments, impact-specific funding and allocating time for impact activities (see section
3).

In this REF period, we short-listed fifteen impact case studies from which we selected seven for
submission. These illustrate the School’s strong commitment to impactful research that promotes
rights and justice beyond academia. They range in focus from enhancing justice for victims of
sexual violence; protection for drug users; to reducing health inequalities and demonstrate global
impact, inter alia, through UN standard-setting measures, as well as impact on the lives of
individuals, eg prisoners. Facilitated by research hubs and institutes, they reflect our 2014 strategic
aims (1) to expand our already significant impact in human rights and related areas and (3) to
enhance engagement with the public sector and ensure greater influence on the development of
law and policy. The big data case study, for example, shows how the HRBT’s research influenced
the UN Human Rights Council and changed the approach of UK regulators.

The submitted case studies also demonstrate the robustness of our approaches to impact which
are: (a) to work in and with non-academic legal organisations to directly influence policy and
practice; (b) to produce research aimed at or commissioned by policy-makers; and (c) to assist
parties, legal practitioners and courts. For example, the Judicial Review case study flags Sunkin’s

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaboration with the Public Law Project and how the research has been used by civil society
groups, legal practitioners, policy makers and courts. The Colombia case study exemplifies how
collaboration with CSO Dejusticia led to co-authored high-quality research that influenced the
Colombian Special Jurisdiction for Peace. The Armed Conflict case study demonstrates how
guidelines published with the ICRC influenced policy and practice of the ICRC, courts and states.
For detail on impact beyond the chosen case studies see section 4.2.

Recognising the need to ensure the sustainability of our impactful work and to encourage it across
all our research areas and at all career stages, our strategic impact-related aims are to:

      consolidate our existing strengths in human rights and public law;
      expand impact in other areas, in particular, but not limited to, business law and criminal
       justice; and
      strengthen the already apparent and future impact of colleagues who joined the School in
       this REF period.

1.6 Research dissemination

Through the School’s Media Strategy we have significantly increased dissemination of, and access
to, our research, with strong support from the School’s Events and Communications Team and
through the creation of a Research Visibility Team. Focusing on increasing online access we
established three blogs (Law, HRC, and UKAJI) and two podcasts (RightsCast (HRC) and Law).
We regularly organise training in the effective use of social media to enhance research,
exemplified best by Peers, whose followers number 133,656, placing him 11th internationally
among law professors (Law Prof Twittersphere 2020). Colleagues also regularly contribute to
external high-profile blogs and podcasts and many ECRs have won awards for their online
publications. In 2018, for example, post-doctoral researchers Kent and Ng won The Conversation’s
award for the best Humanities article with 83,000+ reads, and in 2020 Antoniou won with 74,000+
reads. Petrucci received a University Celebrating Excellence prize for a Conversation article in
2019 that attracted 53,000+ reads. Our research also features in the print media, eg ECRs Cooper
(The Times) and Hannah (The Guardian), and television media, eg appearances for the BBC
World News and CNN (Peers), BBC TV News (Lubell), and BBC Radio 4 (Lubell, Woods).

We strongly encourage publishing in open access outlets, with a number of our REF2 outputs,
including monographs, published this way. Of the 300 articles deposited in the Institution
Repository in this REF cycle, 204 (68%) are green and 35 (12%) gold open access.

1.7 Research integrity

Ensuring research integrity is supported by the School’s Ethics Officer who implements University
policies and provides regular training events for staff and students on the ethical dimensions of
their work, including identifying and avoiding conflicts of interest; data protection and security; risk
assessments and giving full credit to all contributors. The Ethics Officer provides advice on the
design and conduct of research and on reporting and storing research data. They are a member of
one of three Ethics Sub-Committees of the University Ethics Committee. The Ethics Officer reports
to the School’s Director of Research. All research collaborations uphold an ethos of equitable
partnerships, including joint determination of the research focus and methodology.

1.8 Research culture in times of COVID-19

Our ability to adapt our research environment quickly to an online context to meet the challenges of
the COVID-19 pandemic is testament to the vitality of our research environment. To maintain a
vibrant research community, we initiated weekly zoom research cluster meetings, regular online
research training sessions and frequent research webinars and conferences with national and
international panels and audiences, eg the international Human Rights and Climate Change
workshop in April/May 2020.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our COVID-19 publication of June 2020 was the product of colleagues identifying in March 2020
the urgency to explore the societal challenges posed by COVID-19 through collaborative and
interdisciplinary research. The publication features novel work by Research Officers, ECRs and
senior academics with an array of specialisms including: critical theory; global perspectives on
human rights and health as well as the pandemic’s intersecting impacts on particularly vulnerable
and marginalised groups; regional focuses on Africa, Asia and Latin America; the regulation of the
economy; access to justice and big data and technology.

Breakout groups during School-wide zoom research meetings provide colleagues with a space to
share concerns about, and experiences with, carrying out research during lockdown and to identify
additional support needs. Consequently, to accommodate colleagues’ challenging circumstances,
we arrange all research related meetings at times that best facilitate a home-schooling routine.
Recognising the difficulties of carrying out research under these circumstances, probation periods
have been expanded for all by a year and expectations regarding the production of research
outputs adjusted.

2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

Our School provides a stimulating and supportive research culture for all our researchers and
ensures wide-ranging opportunities for career development. Researchers as ‘individuals’ is at the
heart of our career development strategy, providing people with the tools, time and support to
establish and grow their research identity within the broader School community.

Recruitment

Our recruitment strategy fully embodies our commitment to providing an international, multicultural
and diverse research and learning environment.

Expanding from 32 to 84 REF-eligible academics since 2014 has created both challenges and
opportunities for our research culture. Our Recruitment Strategy aimed to balance the wish to
nurture ECRs, and thus ensure the sustainability of the legal research community, with ensuring
sufficient senior-level mentoring support and research leadership. At the same time, we
endeavoured to combine consolidating our long-standing research strengths with expanding our
research expertise in less represented and/or novel research areas. Consequently, since 2014 we
have recruited fifty-three lecturers, some of whom have been promoted to SL during this REF
cycle, and ensured sufficient leadership and mentorship capacity through the recruitment of eleven
senior lecturers, two readers and six professors representing a wide range of research expertise.

To consolidate and expand our expertise in the field of business law, we appointed one professor,
one reader, one SL and fourteen lecturers. Public law has expanded with the appointment of two
readers (one now professor); one SL and two lecturers. Human rights appointments include one
professor, four SL and eleven lecturers (one now SL). Implementing the School’s 2014 aim to
expand expertise in socio-legal research we made ten appointments: six lecturers; one SL; one
reader; two professors. They also contribute to the sustainability and expansion of our capacity to
carry out empirical research. In line with our strategic aims we also invested in other areas, such
as clinical education (three lecturers and one SL - all on teaching only contracts (ASE), making
significant contributions to scholarship and publications in this area, and one professor), ADR (four
lecturers, one professor); criminal justice (three lecturers, one SL, one professor); and health law,
with a private law (two lecturers) and a public health/human rights (four lecturers) focus. To ensure
sustainability of our research on the relationships between business law and human rights, prior to
Leader’s retirement we appointed two lecturers.

Our growth has enabled the development of novel research themes. Research on the environment
from human rights, business, private and public law angles was supported by recruiting two SL and
five lecturers. Research on the intersections of law and art has been supported by the appointment

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of two professors and three lecturers. Technology and the law was strengthened through the
appointments of one professor and two lecturers.

In line with our strong focus on impactful research, we recruited researchers coming from various
areas of practice to further enhance the School’s capacity to generate research impact, eg.
Ferstman (Director of REDRESS), Casla (Policy Director Just Fair); Amajuoyi (adjudicator with the
Financial Ombudsmen Service), Cooper (senior police officer).

We have a strong tradition of ensuring sustainability through granting Emeritus status to colleagues
upon retirement, with many continuing to enrich our research culture through contributing to impact
case studies or funded research projects, such as Hampson and Leader (from November 2020).

Staff development and support

The cornerstone of our staff development strategy is a supportive and stimulating research
environment that ensures career development and advancement. As nurturing the next generation
of excellent researchers is central to our Recruitment and Research Strategies, evidenced by the
appointment of thirty-five ECRs (from 12.5% in 2014 to 41.7% in 2021), we focus resources on our
ECR support system and have put formalised support structures in place to ensure equality of
support and opportunity.

To assist ECRs with building confidence in their research abilities and developing an individual
research identity, all probationary lecturers are allocated an Academic Adviser from the senior staff
who assists with research planning, the production of high-quality research, the design of funding
applications, the achievement of impact. An individually tailored probation agreement is designed
for each ECR. Academic Advisers regularly review progress in achieving probation goals and
therefore swiftly identify if a probationary colleague needs extra support, eg teaching relief to
complete a paper. All probationary colleagues receive a reduced teaching/administrative workload
(reduced by 20% in year one, 15% year two and 10% year three). Career and research mentorship
by the Academic Adviser continues after permanency, with a focus on promotion. Colleagues at all
career stages can request a research mentor.

Research development thrives through a collaborative environment. Thus, our research clusters
provide a vibrant, collaborative space for all colleagues, including PGRs, post-doctoral researchers
and those on ASE contracts. Research collaboration is strongly encouraged between senior and
junior colleagues, ranging from joint impact case studies (eg Professor McGregor with ECR
Hannah; Professor Hunt with ECR Bueno de Mesquita) and publications (eg Professor Leader with
PGR Yanes; Professor Sandoval with post-doctoral researcher Cruz) to funded projects (HRBDT,
UKAJI) that bring together colleagues at all career levels.

Opportunities to develop research skills range from training to specialist advice and support (eg on
gaining impact). At the individual level, our Promotions Lead carries out annual Career
Development Reviews (CDRs) for each colleague to discuss all aspects of career progression.
Additionally, our Research Director meets annually with each colleague to discuss their research
plans.

The School invested in creating a fair workload allocation model (WAM) which allows all REF-
eligible staff to spend 37.5% of their time on research. Research leave entitlement is one term per
six terms served and continues to accrue during parental leave which can be accumulated to
complete bigger projects. Additional leave, or lighter teaching/administrative loads are awarded to
support specific research projects or accommodate individual staff circumstances. To facilitate
exchange with outside bodies, we support leave for secondments, eg Hunt’s role as Chief Human
Rights Commissioner of New Zealand (2019-2022).

Each colleague has an annual individual research allowance of £800. Additional support is
available through the School’s Research Support Fund, from which all colleagues can seek funding
for research activities, from attending or organising conferences and preparation of larger grant

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
applications to impact work. A rolling applications process allows speedy awards. We ring-fence
part of the budget for ECRs and for research cluster activities.

Post-doctoral researchers and colleagues on ASE contracts are integrated into the research
culture of the School and have access to all research events and training. Colleagues wishing to
move from an ASE to ASER contract are supported through additional research time and
mentoring.

Research and impact success is rewarded through permanency, promotion (in this REF cycle 3 to
professor and 5 to SL) and prizes. For example, colleagues’ impactful activities, even if not
selected as a case study, have been recognised through University-wide prizes, eg ECR Van Ho:
Best International Research Impact; Lindsey: Best Research Impact Award (ECR Humanities).

Staff training

New colleagues receive an induction explaining the research environment and support structures,
REF requirements, and permanency/promotion criteria. Training and guidance is also provided for
staff undertaking mentoring and Academic Adviser roles. Regular training events focus on
research skills, including socio-legal, empirical and comparative research methods; use of
bibliographic software; how to develop interdisciplinary networks; enhancing research
dissemination and visibility, and how and where to publish. Recognising the wealth of experience
and skills in the School, through the clusters, research awaydays and additional events we
encourage learning from each other, with training sessions being led by colleagues at all career
levels. Together with the University’s Research and Enterprise Office (REO), we provide regular
training on grant application opportunities and procedures.

We hold regular mock REF reading group meetings where colleagues examine publications (with
permission of the author) according to REF criteria. REF Reading Group’s assessments of these
pieces are then shared to improve transparency of the REF assessment process, promote a
shared understanding of quality indicators and inform colleagues’ approach to their writing.

The School also provides regular training on matters relating to impact. Impact Acceleration
Account (IAA) funding was used to invite external speakers to discuss the use of social and
traditional media to reach public audiences, how to engage with Parliament, and how to influence
government. Additionally, we run regular training on pathways to impact and how to build case
studies.

2.2 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

Equality, diversity and inclusion is a core component of our research and recruitment strategies,
including a two ticks policy, and our events policy is sensitive, for example, to religious holy days,
disabilities and caring responsibilities. Diversity is an important factor when composing speaker
series or research panels, and we ensure an appropriate gender balance and good representation
of voices from minority and traditionally disadvantaged groups, as well as from the global south.

Our academic community includes colleagues from twenty-five nationalities, representing a wide
range of legal systems and religions, as well as many colleagues who identify as LGBTQI+. 20% of
colleagues have declared a disability. Many colleagues are the first in their family to attend
university. Out of 38 senior colleagues, 15 are female. The leadership team, and all committees,
including recruitment panels, ensure a gender balance. During almost the entire current REF
period, the School had a female Director of Research. The REF Preparation and REF Reading (a
group of sixteen senior colleagues assessing publications for the REF) Groups consist of an equal
number of male and female colleagues and all committee members complete the University’s
unconscious bias training. Outputs for the REF are each assessed by 2 members of REF Reading
Group and where disagreement exists, a third.

The School accommodates flexible working needs, including compressed working hours, flexible

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
start or finishing times that fit with care arrangements, part-time work, and career breaks. Twenty-
two staff members currently have flexible working arrangements in place. The School’s WAM
provides a 15% workload reduction in administration and teaching for the year following maternity
or adoption leave. To ensure all colleagues have the opportunity to present at conferences the
School offers additional financial support to cover childcare.

Our commitment to gender equality will culminate in an application for a bronze Athena SWAN
award in 2021. This process has involved reflecting on experiences and concerns expressed by
colleagues and students, for example, through surveys and focus groups. While Athena SWAN
focuses on gender equality, the School has added an intersectional lens. For example, Athena
SWAN workshops were held specifically for BAME colleagues. More broadly, at our research
away-day in 2019 we specifically discussed EDI in research. This became a regular agenda item
for School research meetings, leading to the introduction of an EDI Committee in 2020 which
meets termly to discuss, initiate and monitor EDI actions.

In 2020, we created a new role of Staff Wellbeing and Community Development Officer, to
organise staff social activities as well as assist colleagues with identifying and accessing support
services. Sessions have been organised on self-care and resilience, and we provided free
meditation sessions for staff and students. University coaching courses are also available,
including coaching for mentoring and management roles.

Short-term contracts are only offered as cover for maternity or other leave, and to colleagues who
choose fractional contracts after retirement. All other REF-eligible staff have permanent contracts.

1.3 Research Students

The School offers a PhD in Law, an interdisciplinary PhD in Human Rights and a professional
doctorate. During this REF period, the School has awarded 62.5 PGR degrees:

                                            Year of award
                                                                                                Total
                2013/14    2014/15    2015/16 2016/17 2017/18          2018/19   2019/20
 Normal
                    3.00      16.00      11.00     14.00        8.50      4.00       5.50      62.00
 doctorate
 Professional
                                                                0.50                            0.50
 doctorate
 Total              3.00      16.00      11.00     14.00        9.00      4.00       5.50      62.50

The academic quality of our students is evidenced by the number of prestigious and competitive
scholarships awarded, including: five CHASE, two ESRC, two SeNSS, one Commonwealth, one
China Scholarship Council, and two Mexican Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia.
Recognising the importance of outstanding PGR students for our research environment and the
importance of nurturing the next generation of scholars, we supported eleven PGR students with
their doctoral studies through fully-funded competitive University of Essex Doctoral Scholarships.

Two Co-Directors of PGR oversee the programme, including recruitment, inductions, chairing the
Progress Committee and organising student training, conferences and socials. All students have
two supervisors with whom they meet at least once per month. Supervisors receive training, by
internal and external experts, and through the University’s ‘Supervising Doctoral Studies’ training
package. The PGR Student Handbook explains the framework and process of supervision and
research milestones provide clarity on progress expectations for the duration of studies.

Review panels are chaired by a colleague independent of the supervisory team. For full-time
students review panels are a bi-annual check in on progress (annual for part-time students) to
discuss the work produced, monitor performance against the milestones, discuss career plans, and
assess training needs. This ensures that potential problems are identified early so that additional
support, such as intensified supervision or referral to student support, can be swiftly implemented.
The School’s Progress Committee has oversight of PGR progression, and its membership includes

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the School’s Student Support Officer to ensure that special circumstances are duly considered.
Part-time studies are fully supported. Specialist support is available for students with specific
learning needs. The School’s commitment to ensuring an inclusive culture that promotes equality
and diversity extends to its approach to recruitment of doctoral students.

PGR students are fully integrated in our research environment and clusters where they frequently
present their work and receive feedback. Regular training seminars are held, covering topics such
as publishing, conducting field research, engaging in litigation, preparing for the viva, or writing
CVs and job applications. PGR students benefit from Essex University’s Proficio professional
development scheme, which provides each student £2,700 for training courses (at Essex or
externally) to enhance academic and transferable skills. Examples include training on career
management, Nvivo, advanced research methods and language courses. Each student receives
an annual School conference funding allocation of £350, which can be increased if necessary.

Essex University is a member of CHASE (Consortium for Humanities and the Arts South East-
England), an AHRC Doctoral Partnership comprising nine institutions, and SeNSS (South East
Network for Social Sciences), an ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership comprising ten institutions.
Consequently, our PGR students have access to a range of training and development courses run
by those consortia. In 2019, for example, we successfully applied for CHASE funding to devise a 3-
day methodologies workshop attended by students from Essex and other CHASE institutions.

The School runs an annual two-day PGR conference, with external keynote speakers and
discussants, where our students present their research. This enhances their presentation skills,
offers opportunities for networking and for obtaining feedback on and defending their work in front
of a mixed audience.

PGR employability is enhanced through opportunities to gain work experience as GTAs, research
assistants, and through University-funded placement schemes for skills development under an
academic supervisor. To acquire publication experience, PGRs are invited to co-author policy
reports, blog posts (PGR Marsons runs the UKAJI blog) or academic publications with colleagues
(notably Yilmaz with Chambers, REF2, Carter contributed to the School’s COVID-19 publication).
The PGR Employability Officer provides additional support.

The School facilitates peer support networks. The HRC Doctoral Affiliates Network promotes
interdisciplinary human rights research activities and events for PGR students across the
university, with presently 31 Doctoral Affiliates from all faculties. The ‘PhD Triangle’, a collaborative
venture between the HRC, LSE and the University of Cambridge, provides another inter-
disciplinary forum with an annual student-organised research conference, where sessions are
chaired and attended by academics from all partner institutions. The School also partners with the
School for Advanced Study at the University of London and the University of Glasgow in hosting a
Human Rights Research Students Conference, providing further opportunities for PGR students to
enhance their networks.

To sustain our vibrant community since the outbreak of COVID-19, the School has implemented
fortnightly PGR roundtables via videoconferencing. These provide a space for training, presenting
work, receiving feedback, sharing experiences and identifying support needs.

As testament to the success of our PGR programme a large number of PGR students who
completed during this REF period have moved into academic careers (nine in the School and
others at universities elsewhere in the UK and abroad), obtained post-doctoral fellowships, or were
appointed to prestigious positions in government, international law firms, and NGOs.




                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income, infrastructure and facilities are strengthened through complementary layers of
support at the University, Faculty and School levels.

3.1 Research Income

During this REF period our external research funding awards from a range of funders have more
than quadrupled, from nearly £2,000,000 to £8,405,868. This success is due to our Research
Funding Strategy, which encourages colleagues to develop ambitious, and preferably
interdisciplinary, projects that address important challenges through a combination of excellent
academic research and non-academic impact activities. The robustness of our Funding Strategy
and support structures is evidenced by the extraordinary 50% success rate of our funding
applications, with 96 of 193 applications having been successful.

The mentoring system, research clusters and cross-cluster meetings provide fora for testing ideas,
developing projects, and identifying collaborators and funders. A peer-review system for feedback
on draft applications at various stages was introduced to enhance quality and chances of success.
This is overseen by the Funding Officer who also organises funding-related training events. To
familiarise ECRs with the external funding landscape, they are encouraged to submit a research
funding application during their probationary period, with guidance from the School’s research
team and Academic Advisers. Research leave can be awarded to develop larger bids and the
School provides seed-corn funding.

A successful example of our Research Funding Strategy that focuses on designing projects that
produce excellent impactful research is the ESRC £4,400,000 grant that funded the creation of the
HRBDT project. This interdisciplinary project developed through a series of meetings of HRC
members, with contributions from 12 academics from different disciplines. The application was
supported by WAM time, the peer-review process and Research and Enterprise Office staff. The
grant-funded research resulted in an impact case study and several REF2 outputs.

Three successful fellowship applications provide further evidence of the value of the peer-review
support offered to colleagues: Viterbo’s AHRC ECR fellowship (£200,774) Rethinking Child Law
and Policy and Huang’s Mid-career British Academy Fellowship (£123,685) Stock Connect: A New
Model of Financial Market Integration, and Murray UKRI Future Leaders grant building on his
HRBDT research (awarded August 2020).

Important Research Council grants include AHRC GCRF funding for Legitimacy, accountability,
victims' participation and reparation in transitional justice settings - lessons from and for Colombia
(PI Michalowski, Co-I Sandoval, 2020, £149,985); McGregor’s British Academy Newton Grant (with
Basak Cali) on the Effects of International Human Rights Law on Other Branches of International
Law (2015-2017, £72,000); and Murray’s ESRC transformative research grant on human rights
investigations (2019-2020, £27,606). Colleagues also participate in successful bids as Co-
Investigators, eg Sandoval in the ESRC funded Human Rights Law Implementation project (PI
Murray, Bristol, c.£1,700,000) and the AHRC funded Reparations, Responsibility and Victimhood in
Transitional Societies (PI Moffett, Queens University Belfast, c.£750,000); Shaheed and
McGregor’s ESRC grant, Utilising Big Data in the Practice of Torture Survivors' Rehabilitation (PI
Fasli, Computer Science, 2015-2017, £211,183).

Among the highlights of foundation funding, Hunt secured three OSF grants totalling £481,000 to
enhance the mental health and human rights engagement and research capacity of the UN Special
Rapporteur on the Right to Health (2015-2018); Sunkin obtained £325,000 from the Nuffield
Foundation to establish UKAJI; McGregor secured £81,817 for research on National Human Rights
Institutions (2014), and Fox O’Mahony secured £62,225 Leverhulme Trust funding for research into
housing justice (08/2013).



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Success in securing funding from diverse sources includes Lubell and Hannah obtaining
c.£760,000 to support the research of the Human Rights and Drug Policy Unit from OSF, UNDP,
the Swiss Federation and the GIZ (2014-2020). Similarly, Vaccari and Marique’s project (with
Coordes, Arizona State University) When Liquidation is not an option: a global study on Local
Public Entities (LPEs) in Financial Distress was funded by INSOL International (£38,337, 2019).

We also supported colleagues in applying for grants for networks and events, many of which
resulted in long-lasting research collaborations and a range of publications). For example
Sandoval: Newton/British Council researcher links programme (2015, £50,000) for a workshop in
Bogota on Dealing with Land Destitution and Structural Inequalities in Transitions; Marique: British
Academy (2016-2017, £14,922) Comparative public law in Europe: opportunities and challenges
for workshops in Essex, Brussels and at the BA; Gokani as co-PI obtained funding from the
Medical Research Council for the interdisciplinary workshop on Sports sponsorship by food and
beverage companies (£5,890, January/2020).

Essex is part of the Eastern Arc (the Academic Research Consortium with the Universities of East
Anglia and Kent), which provides a nexus for developing research partnerships. For example,
Turner and Ohdedar developed a partnership with the Centre of Architecture, Sustainability and
the Environment (CASE) and successfully applied for Eastern Arc funding for a workshop on
Human Rights and Climate Change with participants from the UN, the World Bank and academia
(£2,960, April/May 2020).

While many of the above-mentioned grants include important impact components, we have also
obtained specific impact focused funding. For example, Woods, £146,353 from Carnegie UK
Trust for her work on online harm prevention (2018-2020); Guinchard and Koutsias, with
colleagues from computer science, secured KTP grants (Orbital Media Ltd £181,720 - 2017-2020;
Mondaq Ltd £248,656, 2020-2023); Hulme c.£46,000 from CPRE The Countryside Charity to
produce a report on Litter Law; and Michalowski was Co-I on an AHRC grant to advise the UK
Ministry of Justice on the compliance of UK law with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons
with Disabilities (£63,828). The School obtained IAA funding (£99,193) for nine projects, including
Gilbert’s work with and secondment to UNHCR; Michalowski and Sandoval’s work with Dejusticia
and the Special Jurisdiction for Peace in Colombia; and Lindsey’s work on mediation and the Court
of Protection.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

Our research is supported through research clusters that foster inclusiveness among colleagues
at all academic levels, including PGR. Each cluster meets at least once per term, at a time kept
free from teaching for this purpose. They each organise research seminars and are encouraged to
hold annual conferences, funded by the School, where colleagues at all career levels and external
speakers discuss each other’s research, test ideas, receive feedback and identify themes for
closer collaboration, including related to impact. The clusters are also spaces to recognise
achievement. The Public Law and Socio-Legal Clusters’ joint conference, for example, launched
Flynn’s monograph ‘The Triangular Constitution’ (Hart 2019).

The growth in number of colleagues, among them a large number of ECRs, has intensified
research support needs to which the School responded by significantly expanding its academic
research team in this REF period. The team includes the Director of Research, a Deputy Director,
two co-Directors of Impact, a Research Funding Officer, Citations Officer, two co-Directors of PGR,
the Cluster Coordinators, Ethics Officer, the Research Visibility team, REF reading group and REF
preparation group. All roles have allocated workload hours.

All members of the research team are ex officio members of the School’s Research Committee,
whose meetings are open to all academic staff in the School to ensure inclusiveness and
transparency. The Research Committee advises the Director of Research on the School’s research
and impact policies, and, through specialised sub-committees, monitors the annual research plans
of academics, considers applications for research leave, administers the School’s Research

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Support Fund and oversees preparation of the REF submission. The research team also promotes
awareness of the University’s research requirements and information on the School’s research,
impact, funding, citation and media strategies and policies through the annually revised Research
Handbook. A cross-cutting objective of the policies is to support colleagues’ research, promote
research integrity and contribute to a supportive and sustainable research environment.

We deliver on our impact agenda through a comprehensive support structure. Two co-Directors of
Impact encourage the generation and maximisation of impact. They regularly hold impact focused
training sessions which range from how to identify impact potential of our research to identifying,
reaching and influencing non-academic research users. The Impact Directors also support impact-
focused funding bids, the promotion of impact related activities, and, importantly, the impact case
studies for the REF. During the impact case study selection process, existing strengths and future
potential of many additional impact stories have been recognised and targeted support has been
provided to colleagues to develop these further. The generation of impact is a regular discussion
item on cluster meeting agendas. Impact is additionally facilitated through funding for impact
activities both at University and School level (see previous section), and WAM time for impact-
related work.

The School has a dedicated professional services team, including an Events and
Communications Team, which assists with organising and promoting research and impact events,
as well as PGR seminars. The team also provides administrative support for the School’s blogs
and podcasts. Additionally, a Research/PGR Administrator has responsibility for supporting PGR
recruitment and progress processes, and provides assistance to the Director of Research and the
School’s REF preparation team. The School’s Finance Administrator facilitates the appropriate
management and disbursement of grant funds. Additional support specifically to deliver the HRC’s
research and impact activities and events is provided by a permanent lecturer post.

Library Services provides high quality facilities and services across the University’s three
campuses, with the largest library, the Albert Sloman Library, holding a collection of over 1 million
books and pamphlets and featuring a dedicated Law Librarian. The total Law holdings are 32,060
books and printed items. Library Services also provides over 48,000 e-books and 40,840 journals
and databases including Lexis, Westlaw, Cairn, Dalloz, HeinOnline, i-Law, Oxford Public
International Law, Practical Law, Public Information Online and UK Parliamentary Papers, and,
through the inter library loans service and reciprocal SCONUL library access scheme, facilitates
access to a wide range of external research resources. In 2019-20 Library spend on information
resources (including books, journals and databases) totalled £2,608,720. The investment in digital
access left the Library well placed to confront the challenges COVID-19 posed for research. The
Library also provides reference management software (Endnote), offers training for other software
(Zotero and Mendeley) and its research support team provides advice and support for literature
searching, copyright, publishing (including open access publishing) and citations.

The Library’s special collections of over 34,000 printed works include material of particular interest
to the School: the Charter 88 Archive; the Sir Vincent Evans collection (personal case files from his
time as a judge at the European Court of Human Rights, 1980-1991, and as a member of the UN
Human Rights Committee, 1977-1984); the Right to Health Unit Archive; the Archives of the
National Viewers’ and Listeners’ Association; the Nolan Committee Papers; and the Paul Sieghart
Memorial Collection.

Our PGR students have access to two large dedicated shared offices within the School. We
worked with the students to choose the optimum layout and furniture to create an environment best
suited to their needs. These rooms include assigned desk space, IT equipment, and free printing.
All students can access the School’s Common Room and kitchen facilities, fostering a strong
sense of community among students and academics in the School. The PGR training budget is
explained above (section 2) and the School provides additional funds for PGR social events.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Arrangements and support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships

Collaboration is at the heart of our research strategy, both within the School (fostered through the
research clusters and regular cross-cluster events), across the University (supported by Faculty
and University initiatives and research groups), and with other institutions (assisted by School
funding and the Events Team). Our collaborations have led to numerous co-authored articles,
edited collections and successful collaborative funding proposals.

We encourage external collaboration through funded membership of learned societies (eg the
School funds SLS membership for all colleagues), with some members holding Board positions (eg
Moore, SLSA). Through their individual and School research allowances colleagues are
encouraged to build and participate in external networks. Colleagues have collaborated to develop
new networks leading to novel research collaborations, including Yilmaz and Van Ho’s co-founding
the International Economic Law Collective in 2020 (with SLS funding). Through leadership
positions within existing networks, colleagues foster intradisciplinary collaboration across
institutions, eg Bueno De Mesquita and O’Connor organised three workshops and published
quarterly research bulletins as coordinators of the Economic and Social Rights Academic Network
UK and Ireland (ESRAN UKI), a network of 151 members including PGRs (12/2018-12/2020).
Other important networks we engage with include the African Union Law Research Network,
International Association for Consumer Law, Social Responsibility Research Network (Osuji);
International Mental Diversity Network (Lindsey); Ius Constitutionali Commune at the Max Planck
Institute Heidelberg (Sandoval); Global Access to Justice Project (Maranlou regional coordinator);
Global Business and Human Rights Scholars Association (Van Ho co-President); UACES
collaborative research network on financial accountability in the EU (Vogiatzis).

We partner with the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights to co-
organise annual conferences on current humanitarian challenges on current humanitarian
challenges, which alternate between the UK and Switzerland. The conference participants include
a combination of international practitioners and academics and ECRs and PGRs are provided with
valuable opportunities to present their research and expand their networks.

The School invites visiting fellows through its own and the HRC’s research fellowship schemes and
regularly hosts academics under the University’s visiting international fellowship scheme. For
example, during this REF cycle the School hosted six fellows from Colombia who enriched our
research environment through participating in research events and cluster meetings and running
career events for PGRs. Consolidating our public law expertise, we have a well-established
agreement with Japan’s Federation of Bar Associations to host one-year funded research
fellowships in public law, with scholars selected from across Japanese universities (Professors
Tanaka Takakuzu (2015), Akitomo Hayashi (2018), and Hideo Horasawa (2018-2019)) who
contributed to our Public Law Cluster. The HRC’s vibrant longstanding ‘fellows’ scheme brings to
the School a wide range of local and global experts for talks, conferences and collaborative
projects.

An important example of successful international collaboration is Murray’s work with Amnesty
International and five universities, facilitated through the School’s Human Rights Clinic, which
obtained the Times Higher Award for International Collaboration of the Year (2019). The judges
were ‘incredibly impressed with the nature of the partnership, how it led to an impressive network
of student investigators, and how it has delivered and continues to deliver data-driven evidence
that can be used to prosecute war crimes…’

The success of our external durable collaborations is also evident in our externally co-authored
REF2 publications including Lubell, Murray with Deeks (Virginia); Marique with Van Garsse
(Hasselt); O’Mahony with Doak (Nottingham Trent); Willett with Howells (then City University HK)
and Twigg-Flesner (Warwick); Sandoval with Murray (Bristol) and Leach (Middlesex) as part of a
collaborative ESRC grant. Most of our larger grants (section 3) involve external collaboration.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.2 Interaction with key research users and wider contributions to the economy and society

We place the highest priority on translating our research into practice and encouraging colleagues
to engage with a range of stakeholders in state organs (eg governments and state militaries,
such as UK Foreign Office, US West Point, Norwegian Military, NATO military legal advisors), civil
society organisations (eg. REDRESS, Amnesty International), international organisations
(UNHCR, ICRC, OHCHR), regulators (Ofcom) and legal professionals (judges, law firms).

In this period Shaheed has been UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran (to 2016) and
the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion (2016-). His role is supported by WAM time.
We also significantly assisted Dr Pūras’ delivery of the UN Mandate on the Right to Health (2015-
2020), by obtaining OSF funding (Hunt), and providing extensive intellectual input into Pūras’
ground-breaking reports to the UN, in particular on mental health-related issues (especially Hunt
and Hannah). We also organised expert and stakeholder feedback workshops that fed into these
reports.

Colleagues are encouraged to take up responsibilities outside academia to sharpen their
academic views, create and solidify networks and influence policy and practice. An important
example is Woods’s membership of the Code Committee of IMPRESS and of the Automated
Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Advisory Committee (from 2015). In November 2020, in a letter
congratulating her on the award of an OBE in 2020, the Surveillance Camera Commissioner that:
‘Your contribution [to the ANRP Advisory Committee] ran through my intervention at the Court of
Appeal in Bridges v South Wales Police and I believe you can see that advice reverberate through
that judgement.’ Other evidence includes: Casla’s trusteeship of HEAR, London’s human rights
and equalities network (from 2018); Hampson’s membership of the UN Commission of Inquiry on
Burundi (from 2016); Hunt’s appointment as Chief Human Rights Commissioner in New Zealand
(from 2019); Ferstman’s membership of the Council of Europe's Expert Council on NGO Law (from
2018); Hulme’s appointment as Chair of the Peace, Security and Conflict Specialist Group at the
International Union for Conservation of Nature (2019); Lubell’s appointment as Rapporteur of the
International Law Association's Committee on the Use of Force (2010-2018); Nicolson’s
appointment as consultant to the African Prisons Project (2017); Sunkin’s service on the Expert
Panel on the Overarching Evaluation of HMCTS programme of court reforms (2019-); and Willet’s
appointment to the EU Civic Consulting team to review the effectiveness of various EU consumer
law directives (2018).

Our engagement with policymakers is evidenced through colleagues having been appointed as
special advisors to Parliamentary committees and other governmental, intergovernmental or
related bodies: in 2018, Nicola Sturgeon appointed Hunt to her Advisory Group on Human Rights
Leadership; Peers was special advisor to a House of Lords sub-committee of the European
Scrutiny Committee on a security treaty post-Brexit (2018); Sunkin has been a legal advisor to the
House of Lords Constitution Committee (2014). Other colleagues have been invited to give oral
evidence to parliamentary committees, including Sunkin’s evidence to the Joint Committee on
Human Rights concerning its inquiry into the effect of the government’s review reforms (2014) and
Casla’s evidence to an ad hoc committee of the House of Lords on the right to food (2020).
Sallavaci joined a Home Office led initiative (May 2018) including a working group that aims to
tackle dangers posed in the UK by Albanian organised crime and by illegal immigration.

We organised IAA funded training sessions on identifying and responding to consultations and
calls for evidence. As a result, many colleagues have been cited in parliamentary reports. For
example, Ferstman submitted written evidence to the UK Parliament Defence Committee inquiry
on statutes of limitations, which was cited in the Committee’s final report on the matter (HC 1224,
22 July 2019, para. 137) and in several subsequent parliamentary group and NGO submissions;
Konstadinides’ written evidence (with O’Meara, Surrey) to the House of Common’s European
Scrutiny Committee on Parliamentary Sovereignty and scrutiny of the UK’s renegotiation of EU
membership (2015) was cited in its 14th Report of Session 2015–16. Willet was cited in the Brexit
and Consumer Protection inquiry (HL Paper 51, 2017).

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

A specific example of our engagement with research users that benefited both our research
environment and society is Willett’s service as a Director of Which? and member of its Consumer
Policy sub-group (2014-2017). This enabled Willett to use his research on fair commercial
practices and standard terms to shape the Which? super complaints that led directly to (i) the Rail
Regulator requiring train operators to improve consumer access to compensation for delays and
other service problems; and (ii) the Financial Ombudsman Service being required to compensate
consumers for fraudulent bank push payments. Through co-teaching, mentoring and cluster
activities, the resulting research expertise and networks were shared with other colleagues.
In 2016, Willett’s and Fejos’ (ECR) research on EU consumer law contributed to the Fitness Check
on EU consumer law for the European Commission (Willett as a lead author, Fejos as a country
reporter). The recommendations of the Fitness Check led directly to important reforms to
modernise the law and improve consumer protection e.g. against unfair terms and practices.

Another powerful example is provided by Woods’ research advocating a new duty of care
approach to the protection of children from harm on the internet, resulting in several REF2
publications. Her research proposal, developed through her engagement with the Carnegie UK
Trust, was adopted by the Labour Party’s Manifesto, and has influenced Government policy in the
Online Harms White Paper (April 2019). Reference to the Online Harms work was included in two
Queen’s Speeches and in June 2020 the government confirmed its intention to implement the
recommendations of the research in a Bill to be introduced this parliamentary session. Woods was
invited to give oral evidence to the inquiry of the House of Lords Select Committee on
Communications into Internet Regulation (24 April 2018).). Her evidence was cited in its report and
also by the Science and Technology Committee in January 2019 when it strongly recommended
the duty of care as set down in the research.

Her support of the HM Open Innovation Team’s work on the ethics of location data with the
Geospatial Commission was recognised in a letter from a senior policy adviser to the Team who
wrote that: ’Your expert perspective strongly influenced the conclusions we reached in the rapid
review report we produced as a result.’

A strong example of impact on society created by an ECR is Lindsey’s work on the Court of
Protection (CoP). As a result of her research, she was asked by a Working Group on mediation in
the CoP for advice on a new mediation scheme in the CoP which launched in September 2019.
Her recommendation, that participation of the person at the centre of the CoPs decision (P) in any
mediations needed to be facilitated, was incorporated into the now approved scheme. Lindsey was
then asked by the Working Group on mediation and the Court of Protection to carry out the formal
evaluation of that mediation scheme from October 2019-2020. She also organised an IAA funded
workshop in 2018 that proposed an amendment to the Mental Capacity (Amendment) Bill which
suggested a presumption that P give evidence in CoP proceedings. Inclusion London (with whom
Lindsey worked on the amendment) lobbied for this recommendation and an amendment to the Bill
was tabled by Baroness Thornton and discussed in the House of Lords on 22 October 2018. While
not accepted, Lindsey’s work played a significant role in placing this issue on the agenda.

With IAA funding, the Essex Business and Human Rights Project (EBHR) hosted two expert
stakeholder workshops on human rights impacts and liability in supply chain contexts, triggering
longer-term collaboration with the European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights
(‘ECCHR’). EBHR expertise fed into ECCHR litigation in the German Kik case, the publication of
an open access legal guide on corporate accountability in supply chains, and REF2 publications
co-authored with ECCHR colleagues. The collaborative work shaped aspects of NGO advocacy
and campaigns (CleanClothes, ECCHR, CORE Coalition) and EBHR was invited to provide legal
advice to lawyers requesting leave to appeal in the UK Supreme Court case of Okpabi and others
v Royal Dutch Shell Plc and another (UKSC 2018/0068), which was granted.

Our research has also significantly benefited parties to litigation and courts. For example, at the
European level, Karatzias and Vogiatzis’ publications were cited by, and shaped the views of, AG
Bobek in Case C 418/18 P, Puppinck and Others v Commission, EU:C:2019:640 (2019, [47; 115]),

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in the first case to examine the Commission’s discretion regarding the European Citizens’ Initiative.
Konstadinides’ research was cited by AG Tanchev in Case C-414/16 Egenberger (2017, [48]). The
European Court of Human Rights cited Vogiatzis’ work in Obote v Russia (Application
no.58954/09, 2019 [23&35]) and Nikolaidis in the Concurring Opinion in Ratzenböck and Seydl v.
Austria (Application no.28475/12, (Fifth Section 2017). Our work has also been cited by domestic
courts including the UK Supreme Court (Michael and others [2015] UKSC 2 [185]); the Colombian
Constitutional Court (Michalowski (C-080/18 2019 [4.1.6.3], and Sandoval T-718, 2017 [204]); and
the Supreme Court of Israel (Abraham (ECR), HCJ 781/15 Arad-Pinkas v The Surrogacy
Agreements Committee (Nevo, 27/02/2020).

At the international level, Palacios Zuloaga (ECR) presented an amicus curiae brief on the right to
safe and legal abortion before the Chilean Constitutional Court in 2017. The Chilean Minister of
Women’s Affairs and Gender Equality thanked her for ‘demonstrating that there are good and solid
legal reasons for Chile to remove itself from the group of six countries in the world that criminalise
all forms of abortion with no exceptions. … I sincerely believe that Chile is now a country that is
more fair, equal and dignified for women and girls thanks to the work that was done.’ Casla,
together with ESCR-Net and eight human rights organisations from different countries, presented
an amicus curiae brief on the exclusion of informal settlements from the official census at the
Mexican Supreme Court (2020), with the Court endorsing their argument.

Colleagues have been appointed as expert witnesses in court cases, eg Sandoval in the Bemba
case before the ICC (2017) and in the UP v Colombia and Jineth Bedoya and Other v. Colombia
cases before the Inter-American Court of Human Rights (2019). Ferstman’s intervention before a
Turkish Penal Court on behalf of leading human rights defender Sebnem Korur Fincanci in 2019,
contributed to the Court’s finding that Fincanci be acquitted.

Gilbert was invited by UNHCR to assist in the preparation of the 2018 Global Compact on
Refugees. His IAA supported work, including his participation in the formal consultations, and
contribution to and comments on all drafts, significantly influenced the text adopted by the UN
General Assembly and resulted in REF2 publications.

Colleagues also provide training to different non-academic bodies. Notably, the UK FCO, the UK
Army Legal Services, the RAF Legal services, and NATO invited Lubell to present on topics such
as military uses of artificial intelligence, cyber operations, resort to force, and investigating
violations. Waschefort was contracted by the Max Planck Foundation for International Peace and
the Rule of Law to design and deliver a training course on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to
the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission. Willett provided training to Which? senior
staff on the legal framework of consumer protection and to Competition and Markets Authority staff
on their powers to act against unfair contract terms.

The Law School holds regular public lectures, including a practitioner sponsored annual lecture
on topics reflecting the research interests of the school as well as current legal challenges. Recent
lectures include ‘Miscarriages of Justice- Who Cares?’ by Henry Blaxland QC (2015); ‘Codifying
Sentencing: the Law Commission’s Vision’ by Prof David Ormerod QC (2016); ‘Who are we? Hate,
hostility and human rights in a post-Brexit world’ by Martha Spurrier (Director of Liberty) (2017);
and ‘The Future of Legal Services’ by Richard Susskind OBE, FRSE (2018). The School also
hosted the SLS Centenary Lecture in 2018 given by Baroness Hale, then President of the UK
Supreme Court. The HRC also hosts an Annual Lecture Series, with sponsorship for António
Guterres lecture in 2016 being provided by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.. External research
funding also supports a number of other events, eg the HRBDT launch at which Ambassador
Eileen Donahoe (former US ambassador to the UN Human Rights Council) spoke was funded by
the British Academy.

4.3 Engagement with diverse communities

Our research involves and benefits diverse communities. For example, Hannah’s work with the UN
Special Rapporteur on the Right to Health included marginalised communities not traditionally

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
engaging with the UN, such as survivors of the psychiatry movement and trans and intersex
activists, and involved them in drafting and reviewing UN reports on mental health related issues.
As UN Special Rapporteur of Freedom of Religion, Shaheed’s consultations with Jewish
communities in different parts of the world led to the first UN report on antisemitism (A/74/358
September 2019), received as ground-breaking by Jewish communities and resulting in a
significant shift in the way the UN Secretariat is addressing antisemitism. In 2019, Shaheed,
together with the Ralph Bunche Institute and support from the Human Rights Clinic, conducted a
number of consultations with members of LGBT+ communities and advocates of 42 countries. The
resulting reports contributed to his UN report on gender equality and religious freedom
(A/HRC/43/48, 2020).

Sandoval has been working with victims of sexual violence, including members of the LGBTQI+
community, and her research assists REDRESS and the Global Survivors Fund with securing
reparation for them. She has also carried out field work with highly vulnerable victims, most of
whom are migrants trying to reach the US, to include their voices in a report claiming reparation
from Mexico for the massacre of 49 persons (2018-2020).

UNHCR asked Gilbert to engage with field operations regarding the political participation of
refugees in their country of nationality, work which facilitated support to refugees hosted in
Lebanon (Syrians), Syria (Iraqis), DRC and Rwanda (Burundians), and Thailand (Burmese/
Myanmarian) in 2018/2019 to participate in electoral processes. Engagement with asylum-seekers
in the UK assisted him in his role as special adviser to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on
Freedom of Religion & Belief vis-à-vis Home Office Guidelines on Refugees claiming persecution
based on their religion. His work also contributed to making Essex a university of sanctuary.

4.4 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, interdisciplinary research, and
responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

Undoubtedly our most important contribution to the sustainability of the discipline is our investment
in supporting PGRs, post-doctoral researchers and ECRs who benefit from our vibrant research
culture and ample opportunities for training and collaboration to develop excellent research skills
and design their own innovative and distinct impactful research agendas (section 2).

We also contribute to the sustainability of the discipline by producing excellent research that
advances thinking in traditional areas of law, eg Stone’s work on equity and the conscience, as
well as ground-breaking research to respond to current challenges (e.g. Willett’s work on 3d
printing). Other contributions include serving on editorial and advisory boards, acting as reviewers
of others’ work, to name but a few.

We take particular pride in our research that responds to emerging or intensifying societal
problems, often through interdisciplinary collaborations – working with colleagues across most
university departments. Many colleagues hold GCRF grants (fourteen awards in total, amounting
to £166,000), including urgency grants, to respond through their research expertise to pressing
international challenges that also, importantly, impact on the UK. This is exemplified by the Essex
Transitional Justice Network GCRF grants to produce research, together with sociologists, political
scientists and anthropologists mostly from the global South, to confront urgent accountability
issues that challenge the Colombian peace process.

We have equally demonstrated, in particular in section 1.4 that interdisciplinary research is at the
heart of our identity, with the research clusters and the various interdisciplinary research hubs of
the HRC acting as important tools to enable interdisciplinary collaboration that, in turn, allows us to
respond to national and international priorities. For example, as a member of the Essex Autonomy
Project, Michalowski contributes to the multi and interdisciplinary Wellcome Trust-funded Mental
Health and Justice project, together with philosophers, psychiatrists, neuroscientists and others.
Sandoval engaged in interdisciplinary research as part of her involvement in the AHRC funded
reparation project, involving, among others, obstetrician/gynaecologists and psychologists and
resulting in joint academic and policy documents.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

UKAJI’s encouragement of inter-disciplinary work on public law has led to valuable collaborations
with departments across the university including with the School of Health and Social Care on the
accountability of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and with the Department of
Sociology on strengthening the Victims’ Commissioner for England & Wales’ constitutional powers.

4.5 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

A number of colleagues, including ECRs, hold editorships across a wide range of journals:
Sunkin, General Editor of Public Law and Chair of its Editorial Committee (2011-2021); Karapapa,
General Editor of European Trade Mark Reports; Gilbert, Editor in Chief of International Journal of
Refugee Law (2002-15), co-Editor since 2019; Konstadinides, Senior Editor of Nordic Journal of
European Law; Maranlou, Associate Editor of Manchester Journal of Transnational Islamic Law &
Practice; Waschefort assistant editor of African Yearbook of International Humanitarian Law (until
2018); McGregor, Contributing Editor of EJIL Talk; Sunkin, member of the International Advisory
Board of Israel Law Review; Wong, Assistant Editor for Chinese Journal of International Law.
Membership of editorial boards include Asian Journal of International Law (Cusato); Modern
Studies in Property Law and Journal of Consumer Policy (Fox O’Mahony); Journal on the Use of
Force and International Law (Lubell); Marchés et contrats publics, Central European Public
Administration Review and Droit public comparé/Comparative public law (Marique); International
Journal of the Legal Profession and of Legal Ethics (Nicolson); Cambridge International Law
Journal (O’Connor); Law, Environment and Development Journal (Ohdedar); Business and Human
Rights Journal (Van Ho); Journal of Human Rights Practice (Waldorf).

Colleagues at all career levels act as reviewers for about 50 national and international journals
across a range of subjects, eg Cambridge Law Journal; European Journal of Criminology;
European Journal of International Law; European Law Review; European Public Law; European
Yearbook of Human Rights; International Journal of the Legal Profession; Journal of Business
Ethics; Journal of Law and Society; Legal Ethics; Legal Studies; Medical Law Review; Northern
Ireland Law Quarterly; Oxford Journal of Intellectual Property Law and Practice; Public Law.

Examples of colleagues serving on peer review colleges and committees for research councils in
the UK and abroad include Sunkin and Woods as members of the ESRC Peer Review Panel;
Waldorf, Michalowski, Marique and Gilbert as members of the AHRC Peer Review College and
Panel; Karapapa of the Medical Research Council. We have reviewed applications for ESRC
(Michalowski, Sandoval), AHRC (Ferstman, Michalowski, Sandoval, Hulme), British Academy
(Marique); Leverhulme Trust (Karapapa); Newton Fund (Michalowski); Oak Foundation (Sandoval).
Moore serves on the SLSA research grants sub-committee.

Service on professional advisory boards is integral to the School’s research context. e.g.
Osuji is a member of the College of Advisers of Sustainable Finance (part of the Law and
Stakeholders Network, funded by the ESRC); Sunkin served on the Advisory Group of the
Immigration Judicial Reviews Project (Nuffield funded); Yilmaz was an advisory board member for
an Horizon 2020 Airbus Defence and Space Cybersecurity (SeCoIIA) project; Woods served on
Ethical Oversight Committees for FP7 funded projects and is currently on the legal advisory
committee of the Digital Freedom Fund (DFF). Konstadinides sits on the Public Law Project's
advisory panel on research methods and ethics. Jovanovic is an expert adviser on the AHRC and
ESRC funded Modern Slavery Policy and Evidence Centre’s project ‘Transparency and
Accountability for Modern Slavery in Supply Chains: Measuring Effectiveness and Assessing
Impact.’

In the current REF period, a number of School researchers have benefitted from visiting
fellowships and similar positions at academic institutions. As an example, Lubell, as Swiss Chair
of International Humanitarian Law at The Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and
Human Rights (2013-2019), contributed extensively to international debates on the use of artificial
intelligence for military purposes, the setting of international standards for investigating war crimes,
the use of drones and the geographical scope of conflict zones. He is currently a Research

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Associate in the Hebrew University’s Cyber Security Research Center working on the regulation of
brain computer interfaces and the attribution of cyber-attacks. Lubell’s Visiting Fellowship (2017-
18) at the Applied Physics Laboratory of Johns Hopkins University, resulted in a longer-term
collaboration. ECR Jones was the Kathleen Fitzpatrick Visiting Fellow at the Laureate Program in
International Law, Melbourne Law School (2019; Australian Research Council funded) and Visiting
Fellow at the Institute for Cultural Inquiry (ICON) at Utrecht University (spring 2020). Gilbert is
visiting professorial fellow at UNSW; Nicolson at the University of Rhodes; Woods has been Senior
Associate Research Fellow at the Information Law and Policy Centre, Institute of Advanced Legal
Studies since 2015.

Prizes: As indicated above the Times Higher Award for International Collaboration of the Year
2019 was awarded to Murray (see section 4.1). Essex was also shortlisted for the THES Arts,
Humanities and Social Science Research Project of the Year (2019), for Woods and the Carnegie
UK Trust’s work on a legal framework to protect internet users. In 2016, McGregor won the Antonio
Cassese Prize for International Criminal Law Studies. Marique’s book, Public Private Partnership
and the Law, was shortlisted for the 2015 Birks Prize for outstanding legal scholarship. In 2015,
Shaheed was awarded the Global Leadership Award from the UN Foundation for his work on
promoting human rights globally, but primarily in Iran, which was based to a large degree on work
of the School’s ‘Human Rights in Iran Unit’.

The School supports participation in, as well as the organisation of, national and international
conferences, including through our research support funding. Important examples of international
conferences hosted at Essex during this REF cycle are the ILA British Branch Spring Conference
(2015) and two international conferences organised in 2019 to celebrate the academic
achievement of two emeritus professors, Professors Hampson and Leader, with panellists of the
highest international calibre. We also hosted the Newton funded international conference on Ethics
and Challenges in Chinese Financial Markets (2017).

Colleagues across all our research specialisms regularly contribute to international conferences
and research events. For example, Gilbert was part of the 2017 Festival of Dangerous Ideas,
organised by The Guardian, speaking on refugee protection at the Sydney Opera House. He also
gave the Pufendorf Lecture at Lund in 2014. Nicolson delivered the keynote address at the
International Bar Association conference 2018 on ‘Profession under attack’: impact of the changes
in legal services on legal ethics’. ECRs: Van Ho regularly speaks at the annual UN Working Group
on Business and Human Rights meeting. Wong was invited to give an inaugural lecture by
Academia Colombiana de Derecho Internacional, hosted on the premises of the Special
Jurisdiction for Peace (2020). Fejos was invited speaker at the Academy of European Law
conferences in 2017 and 2019; Harwood at the Family Law Committee of the Law Society (2019).




                                                                                          Page 20
