Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    Institution: University of Bristol

    Unit of Assessment: 29: Classics

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Department of Classics and Ancient History (CLAH) has recently been described as:
‘distinctively radical’ and ‘...instrumental in getting the rest of the classical world in this country to
think harder about all kinds of theoretical issues that classicists can sometimes leave to one side’.i

Achievement of strategic aims, 2014–2020:
Located in the School of Humanities, Faculty of Arts, CLAH comprises: 15 members of staff on
open-ended research and teaching contracts (3 Part-Time and 12 Full-Time); and one post-
doctoral researcher (research only, 1 FTE) through the Institute of Greece, Rome and the Classical
Tradition (IGRCT): 15 total FTE.

In REF2014, CLAH’s future strategy was to continue to ‘maximise Bristol’s national and
international contribution’ to the discipline through focus on: appointing and supporting the best
possible staff; developing strength in designated research areas; ensuring pluralism in innovative
theoretical perspectives and traditional skills, particularly in language; encouraging cross-
disciplinarity, widespread collaboration and intellectual cross-fertilization; and aiming to identify and
define new trends.

Staffing is discussed below (Section 2); regarding research, since 2014, CLAH has sustained its
commitment to:
•     essential disciplinary scholarship, by developing our recognised strengths in Greek tragedy,
      Latin poetry, ancient history, classical reception, and material culture and central topics such as
      mythology, narrative, politics, and religion; and
•     theoretically inflected, innovative research intended to identify, define and transform new
      arenas of enquiry; while adding an explicit focus on developing and supporting
•     wide-ranging and diverse impacts from our research, engaging with local, national and
      international communities.
Enriched by relationships with the IGRCT and the Bristol Classics Hub (details follow below), and
by embedding structures to facilitate individual and departmental research objectives and the
realisation of impact arising from that research, CLAH is achieving a strong, diverse and highly
interdisciplinary departmental approach to both research on the ancient world and the
classical tradition and its legacy, and the impact of that research.

CLAH’s research culture is dynamic: a snapshot of current research can be arranged under the
following categories. The work of individual researchers may fit several of these categories; these
overlapping interests help to feed the vitality of CLAH’s research and impact environment.
•     Communication, media and story-telling: this category encompasses work on the creation
      and dissemination of narratives in different contexts across spaces, times and genres
      including: presentations of myths from ancient cultures (Zajko); representations of the ancient
      world through material evidence (Hales, Momigliano); global classicisms (Jansen); and
      narrative and futures/anticipation (Eidinow, Liveley). This category also includes extensive
      work on Classics and media theory (Michelakis); and rhetoric, both from a religious angle
      (Sandwell) and in terms of its political role and significance (Knippschild, O’Gorman).

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
•   Ancient Greek theatre and its reception: innovative research in this category ranges across
    textual study of ancient Greek drama, with ground-breaking work on fragments (Coo,
    Finglass), to innovative study of performance both ancient and modern (Cole, Michelakis).
•   Embodied mind: CLAH colleagues lead in research into the role of cognition—the mind and
    senses—in the ancient world, using theories from psychoanalysis and cognitive sciences to
    enhance approaches to key historical evidence and research methodologies (Eidinow,
    Lampe, Sandwell).
•   Religion and magic: Eidinow, Pollmann and Sandwell work specifically on these topics;
    other CLAH colleagues explore them through research into myth, storytelling, and
    performance: e.g., Cole’s research relates to performances of ancient religious experience (cf.
    her Impact Case Study [ICS]), while Lampe’s project on paganism and well-being brings
    together academics from national and international universities in Classics and Ancient History,
    anthropology and psychology, with therapists and pagan practitioners.
CLAH uses the following structures to nurture this rich research/impact environment:
•   Bi-weekly research seminars: attended by staff, postgraduate research students (PGR) and
    third-year undergraduates (UG) working on their dissertations. As well as papers from invited
    speakers, sessions are reserved for staff and PGRs to present their work (CLAH offers
    financial support for PGRs not able to attend otherwise). These seminars have moved online
    during the pandemic, enabling CLAH to invite more international speakers, and a wider
    audience to participate.
•   Bi-weekly staff meetings offer staff a supportive forum for discussing research and impact
    plans; during the pandemic, these continue online.
•   CLAH’s members both lead and participate in cross-disciplinary Faculty-supported ‘Research
    Clusters’ (intended to promote research networking and activities across the University; more
    on these below): ‘The Embodied Mind’ Cluster is led by Eidinow, O’Gorman and Sandwell;
    the ‘Tragedy’ Cluster by Cole and Coo, and Liveley co-leads the ‘Chronic Conditions and their
    Narratives’ Cluster. These Clusters encourage structured interactions that are extremely
    generative for colleagues, e.g., Zajko’s participation in the ‘Digital Humanities’ Cluster led to a
    paper on Neil Gaiman, myth and new media at a conference on ‘Contemporary Classics and
    Authority’ (Newcastle University, Feb. 2019); Jansen’s participation in the Cluster
    ‘Indisciplinary Poetics’, has led directly to her volume on Anne Carson/Antiquity (2021). Beyond
    Bristol, these Clusters enable national and international collaborations: e.g., ‘The Embodied
    Mind’ linked staff and PGRs in Exeter, Cardiff, Bath, Reading, KCL, Aarhus, Helsinki and
    Stockholm, and brought together scholars for an international conference (‘Cognitive
    Approaches to Ancient Christianity’), international guest lecture (Professor J. Sinding Jensen,
    Aarhus), and PGR seminar. In turn, this led to Sandwell’s co-supervision of a doctoral student
    in Helsinki; and a colleague from Bath participating as a Co-Investigator (CI) in an AHRC
    project grant led by Eidinow.
CLAH members participate in and lead a wide range of other research/impact networks and
collaborations. Some of CLAH’s networks are discipline specific: e.g., Eidinow ran the Institute of
Classical Studies Ancient History seminar for Autumn 2018/19, in collaboration with a colleague at
Roehampton, drawing on a broad network of national and international speakers and attendees
focused on ancient Greek religion. But many of CLAH’s networks are interdisciplinary and/or
embrace non-academic partners, e.g.:




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
•   Coo and Cole are members of a British Academy-funded ‘Art of Fragments’ network based at
    the Open University, which brings together academics and artistic practitioners. Cole’s
    ‘Knowledge Exchange and the Creative Industries’ seminar series (2019-2020) draws together
    academics and creative practitioners from Bristol, Bath Spa, UWE, Falmouth, Sheffield Hallam,
    Cardiff, Spike Island Studios, Watershed’s Pervasive Media Studio, and Punchdrunk Theatre
    Company who are interested in knowledge exchange projects relating to immersivity.
•   Eidinow’s AHRC network, ‘Fate, Luck and Fortune: Narratives of Environmental Risk’ (2016-
    18; 2017-18 at Bristol) included Cli-Fi novelists, climate activists, participants from business
    and policy sectors, and academics from multiple disciplines (history, sociology, philosophy,
    geography) interested in narrative and environmental risk. A new project, ‘De/Constructing the
    Body (2019; in collaboration with a colleague from Liverpool, and funded by the Wellcome
    Trust), includes medical professionals and disability activists.
•   Jansen participates in the Princeton Postclassicism Network, working on classical atopias
    across space and time, and Yale Encounters with Classical Antiquity in Latin America, which
    explores ‘glocal’ identities that Classics adopts in Latin American culture, literature, history and
    politics.
•   Liveley collaborates with ‘Project Narrative’ at Ohio State; her work on narratives has also led
    to work with DSTL and GCHQ, a two-year secondment with the National Cyber Security
    Centre, and a fellowship with the Research Institute in Socio-technical Cyber Security.
•   Michelakis co-directs ‘Classics and Media Theory’, with colleagues at Cornell and Bonn and,
    with a colleague at UCL, ‘Ancient Civilizations in Silent Cinema’ (launched in 2007; currently in
    its third phase). As Consultant Director of the Archive of Performances of Greek and Roman
    Drama (Oxford), Michelakis is also involved in steering the research activities and overall
    direction of an institution whose innovative research has shaped the field of classical reception
    in the last 20 years.
•   Pollmann’s EU project, ‘The History of Human Dignity and Freedom in Western Civilization’,
    features an extensive international network, including the Universities of Aarhus, Halle, Milan,
    Münster, and Prague.
•   Zajko is a founder member of the 2016+ Classics and Poetry Now network, which includes
    colleagues from Birmingham, Coimbra, Exeter, KCL, Oxford, the OU, and Thessaloniki.
Many of these networks include PGRs: some are part of existing networks through their research
(e.g., Pollmann’s EU network funds five doctoral students within CLAH); others are involved in
research networks by, e.g., attending and giving papers at Research Cluster events; participating
in, or running, related conferences and seminars (cf. below); and presenting their work at Bristol’s
PGR-focused events, such as Research Without Borders, a public festival of postgraduate
research.

Future strategic aims and goals:
CLAH continues to demonstrate its commitment to the knowledge and expertise involved in
the study of classical antiquity and of its legacy, and the continued importance of both for the
modern world. Insofar as the context allows, CLAH’s strategy is to build on current strengths to
enhance and develop its transformative, interdisciplinary research/impact, both individually
and in collaborations, with full focus on EDI issues, and while monitoring and supporting the well-
being of colleagues, encompassing staff in post, colleagues on temporary contracts, and the PGR
community. This will involve:
    1. Strengthening the Department’s research/impact structures: towards the end of this
        REF period, CLAH instituted changes to its research support structures to embed new staff
        roles and responsibilities, including: (i) a Research/Impact Director, to lead on supporting
        research and developing impact; (ii) a PGR Officer, to lead on enriching the PGR

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
      experience, developing training for PGRs, as well as overseeing their development and
      interaction with University Assessment Structures.
    Looking forward, we will use these dedicated roles to support staff in building:
   2. Sustained interactions with research/impact structures and facilities, both within the
      University and beyond (see further, in the rest of this document). CLAH also continues to
      strengthen its work with i) the IGRCT, which has always been directed from within CLAH
      and is largely and sustainably funded by CLAH alumni and friends (in this period,
      £301,845.33); and ii) The Bristol Classics Hub—an initiative conceived, implemented, and
      run entirely from within CLAH, which facilitates interactions between CLAH and schools
      across the region and beyond. Some of this work is detailed in Liveley’s ICS. Other events
      facilitated by the Hub include Eidinow’s work with narratives of risk and environment at
      Bristol Grammar School—part of the impact from her AHRC network—leading to teaching
      materials developed with the Royal Geographical Society and available on its website. Both
      Institute and Hub (on both, see further below) illustrate how CLAH is able and committed to
      developing its research/impact in an entrepreneurial, holistic and future-oriented manner.
   3. Actively developing open research practices supported by the University’s Research
      Data Services, so that relevant data is made widely accessible, encouraging collaborations
      and contributing to the research/impact environment. Examples include contributions to
      Cole’s ‘Knowledge Exchange and the Creative Industries’ seminar series (2019-2020), now
      being developed for publication in the open access journal Research for All (issue 2, 2021);
      and Eidinow’s monograph Envy, Poison and Death (2017), and collected volume
      Divination and Experience (2019), both open access publications with Oxford University
      Press.
   These initiatives will support CLAH in:
   4. Maintaining existing, and developing new, research/impact networks and
      collaborations relating to Classics, including non-academic partnerships. CLAH will
      support its members in realising the potential of existing networks, as well as forging new
      research and impact relationships. To support PGR teaching and supervision, it will aim to
      create further links, both formal (e.g., the South, West and Wales Doctoral Training
      Partnership [SWWDTP] of which Finglass was Director, 2018-20) and informal: e.g.,
      Jansen’s IGRCT Reading Group (cf. below) which has created a variety of collaborative
      research opportunities.
      And, in all the activities and initiatives above, CLAH aims to:
   5. Achieve a diverse and inclusive workplace foregrounding strategies and practices to
      support EDI in research/impact activities and teaching practices (cf. Section 2). The
      pandemic has intensified particular EDI issues, and CLAH has worked to support and
      protect its members, e.g., adjusting teaching to ensure that pregnant and shielding
      colleagues were not on campus.

By ensuring robust, resilient, diverse and inclusive research/impact structures, we aim to
provide strong foundations for nurturing all colleagues in CLAH, at all stages of their
careers. This will further build CLAH’s research/impact vitality, and facilitate Bristol’s
ongoing engagement with, and inspirational contributions to, the continued vigour of the
discipline.




                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    2. People

CLAH’s staffing strategy aims to:
•    maintain the scale and status of the disciplinary areas of Greek, Latin and ancient history;
     while also
•    developing cross-cutting expertise in areas such as the study of material and visual culture,
     philosophy, history of thought, and classical reception; and
•    ensuring a diverse and inclusive workplace, with attention to early career support, career
     progression, and sustainability.
This triple focus demonstrates CLAH’s full commitment to the whole range of classical studies and
is vital for attracting—and supporting the development of—excellent colleagues at every
stage of their career:
•    Evidence for CLAH’s successful integration of early career staff into its research culture
     includes Cole’s progression: hired as a teaching fellow in 2015, she then joined CLAH as a
     lecturer (teaching and research) in Liberal Arts and Classics in 2017 and has gone on to win a
     prestigious AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship, which will further establish both her
     research into, and the impact of her work with, immersive theatre. CLAH aims to recruit
     additional early career staff in areas that both maintain and expand our research strengths and
     sustain and support the development of the discipline, but this is obviously contingent on the
     current context.
•    Since the last REF, three of the six Faculty Professors hired were in CLAH. CLAH’s and the
     Faculty’s attention to EDI is demonstrated by significant achievements in CLAH’s
     professorial profile, which comprised, at the beginning of the REF period, three male
     professors and one female professor, and now consists of three female professors and one
     male professor. At the professorial level, these new staff members bring additional research
     leadership, strong scholarship, and grant capture track record, supporting colleagues in the
     Department, School and Faculty (e.g., Pollmann is Dean of the Arts Faculty), and raising
     CLAH’s profile within the University. One of these professorships was an internal promotion;
     five further staff members (two male and three female) have also been promoted in this period.
Sustaining the vitality of CLAH depends on effective staff development at all career stages: in
accordance with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the
Concordat to Support Research Integrity, all staff are fully supported by the University, Faculty and
School, via a number of integrated systems and structures (see further under Section 3). In CLAH,
individual development is supported by departmental initiatives following or supported by School
and Faculty policies, including:
•    An Annual Research Review: this Faculty-mandated component for the career and research
     development of all research-active staff involves discussion with CLAH’s Head of Department
     (HoD) and Research Director of plans for research and impact activities, identifying relevant
     resources in CLAH, the Faculty and University. During the pandemic period, these are
     focussing on better understanding restrictions on research and providing appropriate support
     for colleagues.
•    The HoD and Department Research Director, School Research Director and School Impact
     Officer are always available for discussion of research and impact plans.
•    Conference attendance and travel for research are supported with departmental funds,
     supplementing School and Faculty research funds.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
•   CLAH facilitates exchanges between its members and business: Liveley is supported in a
    secondment with the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC); Eidinow delivers sessions in
    Oxford’s Said Business School Executive Education Programme.
•   Mentoring: opportunities include the Peers’ Project (2016-17, for early career and PhD
    researchers in which Liveley was a mentor), the Faculty mentoring system (introduced
    during this REF period), and the Bristol Women’s mentoring system (in which Eidinow is a
    mentor). CLAH has also established a Department mentoring system, in which individuals
    work with a colleague that they nominate.
•   ‘Time for research’: this Faculty policy aims to ensure that colleagues have the time and
    thinking space needed to do the best research, engagement, and impact work possible. It
    covers, e.g., research leave (the option to apply for one semester after six served); and feeds
    into the Faculty Workload Model, for monitoring and distribution of workload. This takes
    account of teaching and administrative roles both within and beyond departments; awards
    workload credits based on % buyout on AHRC, ERC, Wellcome, and Leverhulme grants;
    recognises both impact and research activities; and allocates early career staff a greater
    percentage of their time to research.
•   Staff conducting impact activities and/or gathering evidence of impact outside funded
    research projects can also apply for funds from the Department, School, Faculty and
    University.
PGR training and development:
CLAH’s vitality is sustained by a vibrant postgraduate community. During this REF period, 28
students in total have started PGR study (20 full-time PhDs, 5 PT PhDs, 2 full-time MPhils and a
part-time MPhil); 19 doctoral students have been awarded doctorates. CLAH has a strong track
record of securing Arts Faculty and Alumni scholarships for its PGRs; and, most recently (2020),
Momigliano has been awarded a CDP studentship in collaboration with Gardens, Libraries and
Museums, Oxford. CLAH offers discretionary funds where possible (e.g., costs for students living
outside Bristol to present at the Department’s Research Seminar); School and Faculty funds are
also usually available to support conference attendance, although the pandemic has resulted in
restricted funds.

When they start their studies, PGRs receive a minimum of twice-monthly supervisions with
First Supervisors and at least two meetings a term with Second Supervisors. Other CLAH
members review their work (annually), and this is documented in a shared online system. The
Department’s PGR Officer (PGRO) oversees these processes in close communication with
supervisors and the School of Humanities’ PGR Director (PGRD). Each student meets regularly
with the PGRO each month, and with the PGRD each term. Students are well assisted by further
training opportunities and support networks, including:
•   PGR training organised by the School of Humanities PGRD, including units on e.g.,
    employability, dissertation management, research impact.
•   Guidance and events from the Bristol Doctoral College (BDC): CLAH PGRs have
    participated in BDC events such as ‘Research Without Borders’, a festival of PGR research,
    and have twice (2018, 2019) won the annual ‘Three Minute Thesis’ competition.
•   Specialist training within CLAH for studying classical antiquity (‘Thematic Sessions’), and
    broader, multidisciplinary approaches (‘Trends and Skills in Classics’). The Department also
    works with the Bristol Classics Hub to offer regular paid opportunities for teaching, marking
    and mentoring activities, along with paid opportunities to develop and deliver their own
    public engagement/impact/KE workshops for schools nationally: past and current examples
    include workshops on 'War'; 'Egypt in Rome' and 'Myths and Movies'.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
•   A regular slot for PGRs to present at the Department’s Research Seminar. Students are
    also encouraged to present at national PGR conferences (e.g., AMPAH and AMPAL), and
    internationally, e.g., (2019) Bristol PGRs presented at the Classical Association of Canada
    conference and the 14th Conference of Philosophy at the Athens Institute for Education and
    Research.
•   CLAH PGRs are encouraged and supported to develop their own international networks,
    and to run national and international conferences in collaboration with staff and PGRs at other
    universities (e.g., Macquarie University, Australia).
•   During the pandemic, CLAH PGRs developed an online work-in-progress research seminar,
    advertised through the Classicists’ List.
Further training and support are available to CLAH PGRs through two CLAH institutions:
•   The Bristol and South West Classics Hub offers an annual (paid) internship and training
    programme for PGRs. Led by, first, Liveley, and then Michelakis, the Hub offers a model of
    best practice for the development of the teaching of Classics in schools. Funded by Classics
    for All awards (£45,700) plus funding from the IGRCT (£5,241), which continues to provide
    ongoing annual support, and matched funding from CLAH, its aim has been to establish and
    grow a regional South West Hub to promote and support the sustainable development of Latin
    and Greek, classical civilization, and ancient history provision in schools, primarily in the South
    West, and also around the country.
•   The IGRCT offers: i) a competitive internship which has been held by several CLAH PGRs;
    and ii) the IGRCT PGR Reading Group (run by Jansen, 2014-) which is open to all
    postgraduates and early career scholars in Arts and beyond, from within and outside
    Bristol: e.g., (May 2019), the Group read Anne Carson/Antiquity, with 35 Bristol participants
    (PGRs/ECRs and local artists-in-residence), and 10 remote PGR/ECRs from the UK, Europe,
    Brazil, the US, and Canada. The Group now collaborates with the Centre for Classical
    Reception (CCR) and Department of Comparative Literature at Cologne, Germany. Spike
    Island Studios, Bristol, has asked Jansen to run a similar Group on Anne Carson for their
    associate artists and artists-in-residence, leading to further opportunities for PGRs for public
    engagement and impact development.
•   The Institute has secured continued external philanthropic funding supporting a
    postdoctoral fellowship (held by ECRs who have gone on to secure permanent positions in
    academic departments) and the Morgan scholarship, which supports an MPhil student’s
    research: e.g., (2016/17) on African adaptations of Greek tragedy; (2017/18) on transgender
    identity in the ancient world.
Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI):
These are core to CLAH’s strategic planning, which builds on the commitment of, and support
offered by, the Faculty and University (http://www.bristol.ac.uk/inclusion/supporting-our-staff/) to
ensure that EDI issues are a central part of all our practices: e.g., recruitment and selection
training is mandatory for all University staff involved in interview selection processes, including
discussion of what EDI means, and the legal framework, as well as focusing on awareness of
unconscious bias, and how to address it.

CLAH participates in both School and Faculty EDI committees: matters raised at these meetings
are reported and discussed at departmental meetings and vice versa—our EDI representative
(Jansen) maintains a strong line of communication. EDI matters are tabled at School Planning and
Resource Committees, chaired by the Head of School (HoS), who then takes them to Faculty
Board, and to the Dean’s attention; the HoS also sits on the School EDI committee to ensure that
issues and challenges are addressed.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Evidence for CLAH’s increasing EDI-focused activity includes the changes in CLAH’s staff profile
during the REF period, which is now more diverse and inclusive, and has provided career
pathways for both part-time and fixed-term staff: of four professors in CLAH, one is 0.5 FTE, and,
as above, a fixed-term colleague, appointed to a full-time lectureship in the Department, has been
supported in a successful application to an ECR AHRC Leadership Fellowship. Internally, CLAH
holds specific trainings for staff and PGRs on, e.g., awareness of micro-aggression; ensuring the
accessibility of research and teaching materials; developing reading lists that are both racially
inclusive and gender unbiased. CLAH colleagues are also engaged in supporting EDI initiatives
across the discipline: e.g., Eidinow was part of the CUCD working group on EDI in UK Classics
departments, helping to develop the questionnaire distributed in May 2019, which formed the basis
of the CUCD report. CLAH’s PGRs are also encouraged to support broader EDI initiatives within
the discipline: e.g., in May 2019, Bristol hosted the PGR-led conference ‘Postcolonial and
Decolonial Reception of European Thought’.

CLAH provides support for colleagues with protected characteristics (Equality Act 2010) to
enable them to research productively. Mechanisms in place include:
•   The University-wide Returning Carers Scheme for those returning from parental/carer leave,
    which two CLAH members have used in this REF period, after returning from parental/carer
    leave. This is intended to support academic staff in re-establishing their independent research
    careers on return from extended leave (16 weeks or more) for reasons connected to caring,
    (e.g., maternity leave, adoption leave, additional paternity leave, or leave to care for a
    dependant). Parental/carer leave counts as one of the six semesters required before applying
    for a semester of research leave. CLAH has successfully supported a colleague returning from
    parental leave in obtaining significant grant funding.
•   Flexible working opportunities: CLAH offers maximum flexibility where that does not conflict
    with the requirements of delivering the teaching programme, aiming to support colleagues with
    particular needs (e.g., reductions in FTE; concentrating teaching on particular days to support
    the needs of caring responsibilities or illness).
•   Targeted Faculty Funds to support staff with caring responsibilities, ill health, etc., with
    conference attendance or other necessary travel.
•   For PGRs: the SWWDTP takes caring responsibilities into consideration when allotting funds
    to students for research visits; all PGRs can apply to the Department’s Discretionary Fund to
    support giving papers at the Department Research Seminar or elsewhere.
CLAH also aims to support its staff and community’s well-being by:
•   Monitoring staff workloads, ensuring parity, while taking account of individual circumstances:
    e.g., in preparation for REF, the majority of work was distributed across more senior and
    experienced colleagues, but all staff were regularly consulted about the Department’s
    submissions.
•   Providing a regular opportunity for all staff members (both temporary and permanent) to
    discuss their role with their line manager at annual MyReview meetings; this is focused on
    recognising achievements and is not primarily a management tool.
•   Building community by e.g., inviting visiting scholars and students, emeriti and students to
    Research Seminars; organising inclusive social events; announcing staff and student
    successes on social media.
•   During the pandemic period, organising regular informal online meetings, as well as more
    formal task-focused meetings with staff and PGRs, to facilitate a sense of community and
    ensure support for every colleague.


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
CLAH aims to maintain and develop its research and impact culture through a staffing
strategy that attracts excellent colleagues and research students, supporting their
development at every stage of their career with strategies, activities and collaborations that
support equality and diversity, enabling staff and research students drawn from a wide
cross-section of society to engage in research.


    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

CLAH currently benefits from the University’s strategic, integrated support structure, and the
resulting resources provided by the School and Faculty to support and develop research and
impact, as well as from the IGRCT, which is the recipient of external donations (see further below).
Looking forward, CLAH will also benefit from the resources for research and impact development
resulting from the University’s new Humanities Building, new library and support for Cultural
Collections.

Organisational infrastructure: The Faculty Research Office nurtures and embeds a culture of
research and impact across the Faculty of Arts, with extensive infrastructure for supporting the
development of research and emerging impact (see further below).

The Research Office is led by the Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange Manager, who has
responsibility for championing impact, knowledge exchange and partnerships, and works closely
with Faculty Research Directors, and School Research and Impact Directors to support colleagues
through mentoring, training and sharing of best practice, developing a series of online toolkits and
guidance for impact and knowledge exchange. During REF, she has worked with Unit of
Assessment Impact Coordinators, School Impact Directors and ICS leads to monitor progress and
provide guidance on existing draft case studies, as well as encouraging the planning of future
impact. The Faculty Research office also works to increase the visibility of the Faculty’s research
and impact, both internally and externally, through publication of case studies, press releases and
policy briefings; and administers/oversees the distribution of research and conference funding.
CLAH is involved in these structures directly: Eidinow has been School of Humanities Impact
Director since 2018/19 and is part of the new Faculty working group (begun 2019) run by the new
Faculty Partnerships Fellow to develop links between the University and external organisations,
including businesses.

Research and impact activities within CLAH are supported by a number of School and Faculty
research facilities. These include:
•     Faculty Research Clusters: These support innovative, cross-disciplinary research,
      reflecting the Faculty’s wide range of research interests and approaches. They must involve
      colleagues from two or more Schools and receive £500 p.a. in order to run a series of activities
      including network events, workshops, research seminars, and PGR training. Cluster members
      are able to refine and test new ideas and approaches before seeking further funding.
      CLAH’s Research Clusters (2017-2020) ‘The Embodied Mind’ (Eidinow, O’Gorman,
      Sandwell); ‘Tragedy’ (Cole, Coo); and ‘Chronic Conditions and their Narratives’ (Liveley co-
      lead) have been described above. These Clusters also support the PGR community, as
      participants and seminar leaders, in exploring and presenting innovative ideas, e.g., with
      additional Faculty conference funding, and CLAH funding, ‘The Embodied Mind’ Cluster has
      held postgraduate seminars, as well as cross-university reading groups for colleagues at all
      research career levels.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
•   Faculty Research Centres: These are intended to support research collaborations across
    the Faculty. CLAH members have contributed to their successful consolidation and expansion,
    collaborating on events (e.g., [2018] the Tragedy Research Cluster, run by Coo and Cole,
    collaborated with the Centre for Black Humanities in a workshop on adapting Greek tragedy,
    run by Bristol playwright Chinonyerem Odimba); and supporting their organisation (e.g., [2018-
    19] Michelakis as a member of the Steering Committee of the Centre for Material Texts; and
    Liveley as a member of the Steering Committee for the Centre for Health, Humanities and
    Science). CLAH’s PGRs are also involved in these Centres, giving papers at, and also
    developing, conferences and events: e.g., (2016) then-doctoral student R. Cole organised ‘The
    End of the Book’ conference in the Centre for Material Texts; (2018) former-Morgan Scholar N.
    Pla organised the UK premiere of The Gods Are Still Not to Blame, a Nollywood adaptation of
    Sophocles' Oedipus Rex, with the Centre for Black Humanities.
•   University Research Institutes: The interdisciplinary nature of CLAH’s research means that
    members work closely with, and have been successfully awarded support by, a number of
    the University’s Research Institutes: e.g., i) Funding from the Brigstow Institute (which focuses
    on living well) supported Lampe’s development of a network/project on paganism and well-
    being, funding a bi-monthly Shamanic Experience series bringing together psychotherapists,
    academics, and modern pagans; ii) Liveley has received funding from the Elizabeth Blackwell
    Institute as PI on a cross-disciplinary research cluster into ‘Narratology and Methodology in
    Empirical Bioethics Research’.
    As well as drawing on these Institutes for support for research and impact activities, CLAH
    members also contribute to their success: e.g., Michelakis served on the Executive Board
    of the Bristol Institute for Research in the Humanities and Arts (2014-15); Liveley is a member
    of the Steering Group for the Jean Golding Institute which is focused on data research.
•   The IGRCT plays an especially important research role for CLAH—and, in turn, in this REF
    period, CLAH staff have provided it with key leadership (2014-2020, Fowler, Butler,
    Momigliano, Haskell and O’Gorman have been, in turn, directors). The IGRCT supports
    numerous larger-scale activities, including international conferences and workshops to develop
    collaborative projects and funding applications, and enables cross-Faculty participation,
    stimulating interdisciplinary research and extending impact. Reflecting its reputation is the
    fact that it is supported by two endowed funds.
    During this period, the Institute has:
    o Funded key cross-disciplinary and/or cross-institutional research initiatives in CLAH,
        leading to innovative research ideas, publications and collaborations: e.g., (2013-14)
        international workshops on the reception of material culture in collaboration with the French
        Schools in Athens, led to the publication of two volumes, Cretomania (2017) and
        Hellenomania (2018) co-edited by Momigliano; (2014) ‘Deep Classics’, a project led by
        Butler, proposed a radical new approach to the study of classical reception, producing
        (2016) Deep Classics: Rethinking Classical Reception; (2016) ‘Media and Classics’, an
        international conference, led by Michelakis, brought together classicists and media
        theorists for the first time, leading to publications, other research events, and the
        consolidation of a research network; (2018) ‘The Poetry of Nature and the Nature of
        Poetry’, convened by Haskell, comprised contributions from senior and early career
        scholars from the UK, Europe, Hong Kong, Australia, Switzerland, and Malawi.
    o In collaboration with CLAH, hosted 5 Visiting Professors and 4 Visiting Fellows in
        Aegean prehistory, with funding provided by INSTAP (US$12,000 per year), leading to
        considerable scholarly/research impact, including lectures, seminars and significant
        publications: e.g., Whittaker, H. Religion and Society in Middle Bronze Age Greece
        (2014); Tsipopoulou, M. ed. Petras, Siteia. The Pre- and Proto-palatial Cemetery in Context
        (2017).

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    o   Nurtured the careers of younger scholars, by providing research funding and an
        international profile crucial for further job appointments: e.g., after being elected IGRCT
        fellow, Dr. Caloi was appointed to a permanent post at the University of Venice.
The IGRCT enhances CLAH's international research culture and creates further opportunities
for intellectual exchanges: e.g., connections made through the IGRCT led to an invitation to
Momigliano to give a series of lectures at the four historic Swedish Universities of Lund, Uppsala,
Gothenburg, and Stockholm, with full funding provided by the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters
(2018).

In applications for research funding and strategies for generating income, CLAH is supported
by a dedicated Faculty team, based across Finance, Research and Enterprise Development (RED)
and IT Services. This team identifies potential funding streams, develop bids with academics, and
provides feedback on grants. The Faculty’s Knowledge Exchange team advises on impact
development. PolicyBristol representatives help to engage policymakers in the Faculty’s research
and CLAH has benefited from their support e.g., (2018/19) Liveley received funds to support
research and impact work with DSTL and GCHQ. Pre- and post-award support is provided through
Finance. Researchers at all levels of the University who are seeking external funding receive
support from the Faculty, their School and RED. CLAH members have benefited from, as well as
participating in, Faculty-run support structures, including:
•   Grant-writing retreats. Since 2017, the Faculty has run two grant-writing retreats for academic
    staff each year, a mixture of residential courses and away-days in which staff can dedicate time
    to develop their grant applications, supported by professional services staff onsite as well as
    peer support from experienced researchers (e.g., Eidinow has presented on running an AHRC
    network). Eidinow, Liveley and Michelakis have attended these events, leading to successful
    grant applications to the AHRC and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.
•   Grant-writing support and mentoring. All submissions over £10k go through the Research
    Excellence Advisory Panel (REAP), and, where necessary, the Faculty Research Ethics
    Committee. This peer-review process supports and mentors individuals through the application
    process, as well as ensuring the quality of external bids. All staff on research and teaching
    contracts are members of the REAP college, which facilitates knowledge-sharing across
    disciplines and trains participants in peer review; several CLAH colleagues have taken part in a
    REAP.
Drawing on (and participating in) these supporting structures, CLAH has been successful in
winning income, both internal and external:
•   Internal Income from which CLAH members have benefited:
    o International Strategic Fund (to establish or advance sustainable international
        research partnerships): (2016) Liveley, to develop an ongoing partnership with
        researchers in narrative at Heidelberg; (2018) Michelakis, to run an international workshop
        on Classics and Media History/Theory.
    o Benjamin Meaker fund (covers travel, accommodation and subsistence of a visiting
        professorship): (2019) Pollmann invited Dr Alexandra Parvan (Pitesti University, Romania)
        to Bristol to deliver several lectures.
    o IGRCT: CLAH staff both generate research and impact income, through involvement in
        the directorship and board of the IGRCT, and have received funding from the Institute, e.g.,
        (2017) Michelakis for curating a film screening, with live musical accompaniment,
        introduction, and post-screening discussion panel.
    o Faculty of Arts Research and Conference Fund (provides resources to deliver early-
        stage research or to promote completed projects at internationally significant conferences):

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
          (2014-2019) Michelakis (£5,000) for conference attendance, and publication costs; Jansen
          (£7,000) to complete publications.
      o University Research Fellowships (cover costs for 12 months enabling staff to carry out a
          dedicated research project): (2018/19) O’Gorman supported to accept a prestigious Tytus
          Fellowship at Cincinnati.
      o Impact Acceleration Fund awards (part of the Faculty’s REF2021 Impact Fund to support
          different dimensions of impact, from activities to gathering evidence): supported Liveley’s
          ICS (2017) £4,860.80 and (2018) £2,015.
•     External Income: CLAH members at all career stages have been successful in gaining
      research/impact grants and fellowships: (2015/16) Momigliano received collaborative
      grants from the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council and the Institute
      for Aegean Prehistory Study Centre for East Crete for excavations she was co-directing at
      Palaikastro, Crete (CAD$180,480). (2015/16) Lampe won an AHRC networking grant on
      ‘Continental Stoicisms: The Meanings and Values of Greco-Roman Stoicism in European
      Philosophy Today’ (£25,404); Jansen won a Leverhulme Fellowship on ‘Borges’ Classics’
      (£31,057). (2017/18) Eidinow held the final part of an AHRC networking grant at Bristol (‘Fate,
      Luck, and Fortune: Narratives of Environmental Risk’; £8,905 brought to Bristol) and a Philip
      Leverhulme prize (£100,000). (2019-20) Liveley has a two-year secondment (£60,000 p.a.)
      with the National Cyber Security Centre, and fellowship with the Research Institute in Socio-
      technical Cyber Security (£114,653). (2019-21) Eidinow is CI on a Wellcome Seedcorn award
      in collaboration with Petridou (Liverpool; total £23,754); and Cole has been awarded a
      prestigious AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship, which will further establish both her
      research into, and the impact of her work with, immersive theatre (£234,189).
•     Grant and fellowship capture remains consistent: this year, Eidinow has been awarded an
      AHRC project grant (£999,711); Finglass, a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship
      (£172,603); Jansen a BA small research grant (£7,530); and Sandwell a BA Mid-career
      Fellowship (£115,163). All research projects include substantial impact plans, from
      Eidinow’s project with VR, to Cole’s research with immersive theatre, to Liveley’s work with
      government.


CLAH’s consistent level of grant capture by colleagues at all stages of career indicates not
only the excellence of their research/impact plans, but also the extent to which we are
supported by the University’s organisational infrastructure. CLAH has built on these
opportunities to deliver distinctive, excellent and highly impactful research.



    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

CLAH’s research/impact collaborations, networks and partnerships are wide-ranging, both
conceptually and intellectually, and in their national and international reach. They are
supported by Faculty, School and Department-level research and impact organisational structures
(see Sections 1 and 3 above). A number of CLAH’s collaborations are described in Section 1
above; other research networks include: Lampe’s AHRC-funded network ‘Continental Stoicisms:
The Meanings and Values of Greco-Roman Stoicism in European Philosophy Today’, which has
produced a network of researchers, as well as a collected volume French and Italian Stoicisms:
From Sartre to Agamben (Bloomsbury 2019). Eidinow’s ongoing work on witchcraft and magic, in
collaboration with international colleagues, has produced a special volume (three special issues) of
Magic, Ritual and Witchcraft (2019-20) and she has been invited to co-edit the ancient volume of
the Bloomsbury ‘Cultural History of Magic’ series, which will provide an overview of the

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
development of ideas of magic over time and place. Cole’s Knowledge Exchange and the Creative
Industries seminar series (2019-2020) has developed a network of academics and creative
practitioners interested in collaboration around immersivity.

Such interdisciplinary collaborations give a sense of CLAH’s research achievements, not only
concerning the study of classical antiquity, but also in interrogating and developing its role and
future relevance as an academic discipline. By engaging with diverse communities and
publics through its research, all CLAH members have disseminated their research through
popular channels. Reflecting our interdisciplinary research themes (Section 1), CLAH members are
involved in both traditional arts and humanities partnerships and more novel ventures with a
wide range of local, national, and international external partners:
•   Cole’s work as academic advisor to artists and companies including Tom Holloway,
    Punchdrunk, and the Gate Theatre Notting Hill has seen her shape theatre productions and
    engage audiences through post-show discussions; she is a trustee of By Jove Theatre
    Company.
•   Since arriving at Bristol, Eidinow’s work with narratives and environmental risk has developed
    into a wide range of collaborations, including with the Royal Geographical Society, which has
    produced teaching materials on environmental risk now accessible on the RGS website; and
    with artist organisations, including Fourthland, Proboscis and Primary.
•   Jansen is working with artists and artists-in-residence at the Spike Island Studios in Bristol and
    is organising a seminar series featuring CLAH members during 2020-21.
•   Since autumn 2017, Lampe has coordinated with local psychoanalysts and the Centre for
    Freudian Analysis and Research in London in order to organise four public lectures/year on
    Lacanian psychoanalysis; he is developing relationships with the Cube, Bristol and with the
    Psychedelic Society.
•   Liveley has won an Alan Turing Institute fellowship (2018-2020), the first cross-disciplinary and
    cross-university project of its kind, with ATI partner universities in the humanities (Birmingham,
    Cambridge, Edinburgh, Manchester), and in robotics/AI at Bristol Robotics Lab and Leeds
    EPSRC National Facility for Innovative Robotic Systems.
•   Michelakis has undertaken an extensive programme of public engagement activities across
    Europe and North America, including screenings of archival films with live musical
    accompaniment, introductory talks, and Q&A sessions, in collaboration with academics from
    other Universities, artists, museums and other institutions such as the British Museum, the J.
    Paul Getty Museum, the German History Museum, the BFI National Film Archive, the EYE Film
    Museum of Amsterdam, Cineteca di Bologna, the Being Human Festival for the Humanities,
    and the French and British Schools at Athens.
•   Momigliano has worked with the Bristol Museum and Art Gallery, the British Museum, the
    Ashmolean Museum, and the Musée d'Archéologie Nationale, Château Saint-Germain-en-
    Laye, Paris. She has also been a Council member of the British School at Athens and held
    collaborative projects with the French School at Athens and the University of Toronto (2013-
    19).
•   Pollmann has worked with the Diocese of Bristol, organising public lectures at local religious
    centres.
•   Sandwell is working on approaches to preaching with the South Bristol clergy and with
    teachers of preaching to trainee clergy at Trinity College Bristol; she has provided readings of
    Chrysostom, which have been broadcast online to local congregations.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Through the IGRCT, CLAH also works with a number of charities and organisations such as the
A.G. Leventis Foundation, and the Institute for Aegean Pre-History. The Institute holds a number of
events on Classics and classical reception aimed at the general public and University alike,
including:
•   The Blackwell Lectures (now ceased): (2014) Andrew Feldherr (Princeton), (2016) Glenn Most
    (Pisa and Chicago).
•   The new Sir Jeremy Morse Lectures: (2017) David Konstan (New York), (2018) Martha
    Nussbaum (Chicago), (2019) Richard Thomas (Harvard).
•   Talks by the P.M. Warren Visiting Professor/Fellow in Aegean Prehistory: e.g., (2015/16) Peter
    Tomkins (Katholieke Universiteit Leuven and Sheffield).
•   The Institute’s annual celebration of John Addington Symonds, Bristol-based writer, art
    historian, and pioneer of gay rights is a focus for exploring LGBTQ+ history, hosted in
    collaboration with the charity OutStories.
•   Guest lectures: e.g., (2015) Brooke Holmes (Princeton), (2017) Marina Warner.


CLAH’s contributions to the sustainability of the discipline are both research-focused and
pedagogical, and achieved at local, national and international levels.
•   As well as direct work with schools through The Bristol and South West Classics Hub (see
    Section 1), CLAH staff have been involved in the development of national educational
    policy. Liveley was (2014-16) inaugural Chair of the Classical Association Teaching Board; (-
    2014) CUCD Standing Committee Member and Chair of the Education Committee; (2014-)
    OCR Classics Consultative Forum member; (2014) Russell Group representative on the DfE A-
    Level Content Advisory Panel for Modern and Classical Languages, and, with Lampe, served
    on the review group for the QAA’s Subject Benchmark Statement for Classics and Ancient
    History (including Byzantine Studies and Modern Greek). (2017-) Pollmann is a Senior Fellow
    of the HEA. (2020) Michelakis and Momigliano have been external experts on Austrian,
    Greek, German and UK HEI appointment panels, and invited to accredit systems and programs
    for Greek HEIs.
•   CLAH is dedicated to ensuring the sustainability of the discipline through our
    commitment to interdisciplinary research, achieved through extensive national and
    international interdisciplinary research networks, described above. These also bring invitations
    for CLAH staff to visit other universities: (2011-present) Pollmann is Professor Extraordinary in
    Classics at Stellenbosch University, South Africa, (2017-) Distinguished Visiting Fellow at
    Green College, University of British Columbia, Canada, and (2017-) a member of the Academia
    Europaea. In turn, CLAH welcomes academics from abroad, both established scholars and
    post-doctoral researchers: e.g., O’Gorman is collaborating with a Carlsberg Foundation
    Internationalisation fellow-in-residence at Bristol on his project 'Peace and the Principate'.
    CLAH members are involved in international doctoral supervision, e.g., Sandwell is co-
    supervisor of a student at Helsinki.
•   We have also responded to national and international priorities and initiatives through service
    in disciplinary organisations:
    o In 2015, under Sandwell’s leadership, CLAH hosted over 400 attendees at the Classical
        Association’s annual conference, aiming for an innovative and cohesive program
        focused on reception, the senses, the sustainability of Classics as a discipline, ecology and
        eco-criticism and the impact agenda.
    o Individual service includes: Liveley: (2017-ongoing) Chair of the local CA, championing the
        local Classics community. Eidinow: (2018-) member of the CA’s committee (2015-18);
        trustee of the Wiedemann Trust; and member of the committees of Society for the

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       Promotion of Hellenic Studies and CA Journals Board (2018-); she now chairs the CAJB
       (2019- ). Michelakis: (2013-) Vice-President of the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic
       Studies and (2015-19) member of the steering group of the Classical Reception Studies
       Network. Pollmann: (2019) elected member (representing the UK) of the council of the
       Association Internationale des Etudes Patristiques.
CLAH’s members also play key roles in national and international disciplinary and academic
organisations through:
•   Support of funding organisations: several of the Department are/have been members of the
    AHRC Peer Review College (Cole, Eidinow, Finglass, Michelakis). In addition: (2020-21)
    Eidinow is REF subpanellist; (2018-2020) Finglass was Director of the SWWDTP; (2019)
    Liveley is member of the AHRC Advisory Board; (2018-2020) Michelakis was Subject Lead
    for Classics and Ancient History for the SWWDTP.
•   Reviewing for international research funding and appointments: APELLA (Momigliano,
    Michelakis); Economic and Social Research Council (Eidinow); European Research Council
    (Hales, Michelakis); FRS-FNRS, Belgium (Momigliano); Freie Universität Berlin
    (Michelakis); Hellenic Quality Assurance Agency (Momigliano); Israel Science Foundation
    (Michelakis, Momigliano); Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study (Eidinow); Social
    Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Coo, Eidinow, Michelakis); Shota
    Rustaveli Foundation (Knippschild); and Pollmann is an international panel member of the
    Flanders Research Foundation.
•   Supporting publishers by reviewing for journals and holding editorial roles for journals and
    series. All CLAH members are regularly asked to read contributions submitted for publication to
    the most prestigious journals, as well as more esoteric publications, and act as referees for
    publishers including Bloomsbury, Brill, Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press
    and Routledge. They are also:
    o Journal editors: (2016-) Eidinow is co-founder and co-editor-in-chief of the Journal of
        Cognitive Historiography; (2018-) Finglass is editor of Classical Quarterly; (-2014) Hales
        was a member of the Art History editorial board; Michelakis is general editor for Classical
        Receptions Journal (2020-25); and associate editor, International Journal of the Classical
        Tradition, and Journal of Greek Media and Culture; Pollmann is co-editor of Zeitschrift für
        Antikes Christentum (1996-).
    o Series editors: Eidinow is co-editor of Cognition and Ancient Religion (Cambridge), and
        Ancient Environments (Bloomsbury); Jansen is general editor of Classical Receptions in
        Twentieth-Century Writing (Bloomsbury); Pollmann is co-editor of Studies in Church
        History (Brill), Millennium (De Gruyter), Hypomnemata (Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht).


Indicators of CLAH’s wider influence appear throughout this document. In addition, many of
CLAH’s members have been asked to give keynotes and named lectures: keynotes include
Eidinow, Finglass, Liveley, Michelakis, Pollmann, and Zajko in Bergen, Cambridge, Göttingen,
London, Ohio, Salzburg, Stockholm, Würzburg, and York; named lectures include (2018)
Pollmann: Winckelmann Lecture (Göttingen); (2020) Eidinow: Schlam Memorial Lecture (Ohio
State US, 2020, now 2021) and Martin Lecture Series (Oberlin College US, 2020, now 2022).
Fellowships held: Eidinow, (2014-) University of Aarhus, Department of Religion, Cognition and
Culture, and (2018) Davies Centre, Princeton, US (£58,283); Liveley, (2017) Alan Turing Institute,
and (2020) Research Institute in Sociotechnical Cyber Security (£15,000); Michelakis (2017)
Humboldt, Dept of Media Studies, Bonn (10,950 EUR); O’Gorman (2018) Margo Tytus Visiting
Fellowship, Cincinatti ($6000).



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
We conclude this section and the statement with three highly distinctive honours awarded to CLAH
colleagues: i) In 2015, Fowler was awarded a British Academy medal for his second volume on
Early Greek Mythography; ii) In 2019, Finglass received the Rudolf Meimberg Prize of the
Akademie der Wissenschaften und der Literatur Mainz for his edition of Sophocles’ Oedipus the
King; and iii) In 2020, Coo’s work on Sophocles was recognised through an invitation by
Angelakos (Hellas) S.A to launch the 82,000 tonne cargo ship ‘Sophocles Graecia’ in Yangzijiang
shipyard, Jingjiang, China. These honours demonstrate the range of audiences that CLAH’s
research and impact have reached and the esteem in which they are held. They provide a final
example of CLAH’s continued commitment to contributing excellent, distinctive and inspiring
research on the ancient world and the classical tradition.



i(‘Mary Beard On #Metoo, Misogyny and Bristol Love’, The Bristol Magazine. Accessed June 15,
2019).




                                                                                        Page 16
