Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 12 – Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Engineering and Design is a substantial, expanding unit of 26.2 FTEs, comprising seven major
 research groups, and is housed within the School of Engineering and Informatics, one of ten
 Sussex Schools of Study. We are committed to delivering inclusive, sustainable research and
 innovation that enriches lives both locally and globally. Our overriding strategic objective since
 2014 has been to use horizon-scanning to expand our research portfolio, income and outputs,
 whilst building on existing excellence and recruiting new high-calibre, foresighted researchers
 and partners to facilitate greater vitality. This strategy has significantly developed the
 productivity, collaborative endeavours, and commercial and social impact of existing groups; and
 it has led to the creation of new research clusters in Communications, Robotics and Space
 Science.

 Our research groupings have been formulated to span the UKRI themes of Digital Economy,
 Energy, Engineering, Global Uncertainties, Healthcare Technologies, Information and
 Communication Technologies, Living with Environmental change, Artificial Intelligence, Space
 Science, Physics and Materials Science, and Manufacturing the Future. Via this research
 portfolio, we are also addressing the Global Challenges theme of “Sustainable Economies and
 Societies”, which is greatly facilitated by the diversity of our staff and postgraduates. Each
 research group contributes to several of these multidisciplinary themes. There is significant
 collaboration between research groups and academics and organisations across the globe
 (Figures 1-3), which enables a flexible strategic response to UK government and international
 research initiatives via appropriate configurations of knowledge sets; hence we deliver on
 research priorities that benefit the changing requirements of the UK’s economy and society.

 Integration and communication between research groups occurs formally via School-level termly
 research and knowledge exchange meetings and informally via ad hoc meetings and research
 seminars. The department is distinguished by its formidable inter- and cross-disciplinary
 approach, with a strong commitment to general engineering, both in-house and through close
 collaborations with leading researchers locally and globally in diverse fields from podoconiosis
 diagnostics in Ethiopia to reduction in gas-turbine CO2 emissions for GE Aviation, USA.

 Our expansion strategy has resulted in significant successes: research applications have
 increased considerably, from £3.9 million in 2013 to £38.2 million in 2019; for the same period
 research income increased from £608k to £1.643 million per annum; peer reviewed publications
 rose from 74 in 2013 to 111 in 2018. We are also committed to making our work accessible:
 since 2013, 59.7% of our publications are open-access via the gold (25%) and green channels,
 available on Sussex Research Online, our institutional repository. Numerous reference machine-
 learning datasets for human activity recognition have been made open-access (see: (v) STRC)
 and we regularly provide free technical advice to companies, NHS and government bodies.

 In the 2020 Times Higher Education world rankings for Engineering (1098 entrants), we were
 ranked 32nd for citations and 17th equal for international outlook, and 151-175 in the world
 overall. This placed us =17th in the UK for Engineering and Technology, narrowly second in the
 UK for citations with a score of 98.2, and 3rd in the UK for international outlook.

 The Department’s seven significant research groups are:

 (i) The Centre for Advanced Communications, Mobile Technology and IoT (ACMI), led by
 Nekovee, conducts research in advanced communications, 5G/6G mobile technologies
 influencing international standards, the Internet of Things (IoT) and free-space optics. Professor
 Nekovee sits (as the only UK academic) on the EU’s 5G Infrastructure Association, where he
 advises the European Commission on 5G and beyond-5G Strategic Research Agendas. The

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ACMI Group works closely with Samsung, Vodafone, Huawei, BT, NXP, Cobham Wireless as
 well as being actively involved in important UK, European and international standardization and
 regulatory bodies.

 (ii) The Dynamics, Control and Vehicle Research Group (DCVRG), led by Dunne,
 undertakes sustainable automotive research and fundamental work in: dynamics, control,
 connected and autonomous vehicles, hybrid electric/electric vehicles, combustion emissions.
 Professor Dunne and his group have collaborated continuously with Jaguar Land-Rover, Ford,
 Toyota, and Ricardo for more than two decades. Supported by these companies, successful
 funded research projects are making significant contributions in reducing CO2 and other
 damaging emissions.

 (iii) The Industrial Informatics and Signal Processing Research Group (IISPRG), led by
 Chatwin, focusses on signal processing techniques ranging from security applications, to
 medical diagnostics of images, to bioimpedance spectroscopy for disease classification in
 Ethiopia. Their algorithms and software have had global impact and are being used in 23
 countries spanning Europe, North America, Asia and Australasia. Feedback plc and IQ-AI Ltd
 sell the group’s TexRAD software for oncology and urolithiasis assessments worldwide (see
 Chatwin impact case study (ICS)), having embodied it in hardware – an electrical impedance
 tomography (EIT) system – for non-invasive 3D imaging of breast cancer tumours.

 (iv) The Robotics and Mechatronic Systems Research Group (RMSRG), led by Glovnea,
 conducts research into systems that are designed to perform autonomous tasks in diverse
 environments. Highlights include: a 3D-printed triggerable drug delivery system using magnetic
 fields that has recently received media attention. Robotics research concentrates on physical
 human-robot interaction (pHRI) and its applications in industrial robots and rehabilitation,
 including pioneering work that makes use of game theory for pHRI in teleoperation (an article in
 Nature Machine Intelligence was reported by more than 16 news outlets).

 (v) The Sensor Technology Research Centre (STRC), led by Roggen, undertakes research
 into wearable technologies exploiting machine learning for computational behaviour analytics
 and the fundamentals and applications of electric field sensing in medicine and safety devices
 for tired vehicle drivers. The emphasis is on novel sensing modalities, embedding intelligence
 into miniature and mobile devices, using multimodal sensor fusion approaches that scale into
 sensor-rich environments, and lifelong adaptive paradigms. This group developed an electric
 potential sensor that has been commercialised (see Prance ICS).

 (vi) The Space Research Group (SRG), led by Barnett, is active in wide-bandgap
 semiconductor detector physics for space science and associated harsh environment
 instrumentation. They are world leaders in radioisotope micro-battery research and have created
 revolutionary spacecraft attitude determination systems. The applications of the group’s work are
 in the development of new extreme environment tolerant semiconductor devices and
 instrumentation for X-ray astronomy and space science, as well as spin-off applications in
 scientific, commercial, defence and homeland security. In 2016 Anna Barnett won the
 prestigious Philip Leverhulme Prize, which recognises outstanding research achievement.

 (vii) The Thermo-Fluid Mechanics Research Centre (TFMRC), led by Long, undertakes
 aerodynamic, heat transfer and structural dynamics research in the area of gas-turbine
 technology with GE aviation and MTU Aero Engines. This research has had global impact
 through delivering CO2 emission reductions in aircraft engines via experimental assessment of
 internal air systems (see Long ICS). They also use their modelling and design expertise to
 support many different industrial sectors: from baking muffins to water treatment and combating
 COVID-19.

 Priorities such as global impact and research reach, inter alia, are advanced via a termly School
 Research meeting, chaired by the School Director of Research & Knowledge Exchange (DRKE),
 and attended by the Head of School (HOS), Head of Department (HOD) and all research group

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leaders from UoAs 12 and 11, which ensures coherence with individual and group research
 plans. Global research strategy is developed in this forum, potential impacts are identified and,
 where appropriate, funding (provided by the University) is allocated to support their
 development. The research groups are tasked with identifying research with impact: in the
 current round we had nine possible ICSs, arising across all seven research groups. This was
 reduced to the required three via an EDI-compliant review process organised by the University-
 level Research Quality and Impact team. There is an active management strategy to generate
 further 4* ICSs for the next 5-year period and there are already plans for spin-out companies
 from current research in the different groups. Four embryonic ICSs have already been identified
 and will be supported and developed for the next REF.

 Future research strategy is generated and expedited by the HOS, HOD, DRKE and the School
 Research Committee, and both informs and responds to the rolling 5-year research plans
 formulated by individual faculty. The unit’s general policy is to track UKRI, EU and Government
 initiatives to ensure that the department, via its external collaborators, is able to respond to
 research calls in a timely manner. We intend to continue developing the strategy formulated in
 2014, which has brought research and external funding expansion. In addition, new strategic
 strands have been created to enhance flexibility and formally encourage the rich cross-
 disciplinary collaborations that have developed in this REF period. These new strands are
 focused on the incorporation of three integrating themes (Txx): Health-TH, Artificial Intelligence-
 TAI, Sustainable Energy-TSE. These themes are led by Rendon-Morales, Birch, and
 Sorguven respectively, each of whom is active in promoting cross-group collaboration to create
 projects and funding bids within these themes.

 The introduction of TH, TAI and TSE has already strengthened our research groups’
 opportunities, and is encouraging the formation of spin-out companies to exploit outputs such as
 nuclear batteries, medical diagnostics, and security technologies. Each is associated with a
 dedicated, well-founded specialist laboratory, with the necessary equipment and technical
 support to produce world-class outputs, and in the coming years they will further increase the
 quality and reach of our research. In addition to these future-oriented cross-disciplinary
 initiatives, our future research strategy is closely bound into Sussex’s recently-created Future
 Technologies Laboratory, opened by the then Minister of State for Universities and Science, Jo
 Johnson, in 2017. With state-of-the-art facilities for work in robotics and autonomous systems
 exploiting AI, the FTL is the result of an £11million governmental and university investment in
 the innovative engineering required to address future global challenges – challenges our
 research (and research across Sussex) is committed to addressing.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy, staff and research student development, equality and diversity

 Our staffing strategy prioritises appointments that support our research and teaching strategy, in
 order to build on and complement existing strengths, maintain critical mass in each area and
 across the enabling technologies and, where appropriate, to enhance or develop new
 collaborations. For example, as part of our expansion by 3.4 FTEs since 2013, the department
 supported DCVRG by appointing Peter Fussey as an industrial research professor: at 40% FTE,
 he spends 60% of his time as the Head of the Powertrain Controls Department at Ricardo Ltd.
 This approach ensures that new appointments are aligned with our impact strategy, which in
 turn is supported by the available physical infrastructure.

 Posts are advertised and appointed in line with University procedures, within which equality and
 diversity is fully integrated (as it is in all University procedures, including promotion and staff
 development). In addition, Sussex is a member of the Athena SWAN charter for the
 advancement and promotion of the careers of women in STEM subjects, and has a supportive
 policy on flexible working. Engineering is one of the most ethnically diverse departments in the
 University, boasting staff of fifteen different nationalities spanning the globe. Our success in
 managing diversity is underpinned by the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policy, which is strategically committed to reducing the gender pay gap, securing a race equality
 charter, joining the top 100 employers in the Stonewall UK Workplace Equality Index, and to
 becoming a disability confident leader. This is supported by staff networks, Dignity and Respect
 Champions, benchmarking and training programmes, and our unit-specific EDI Champion
 (currently Rendon-Morales). Our gender distribution is: 11.1%-female, 88.9%-male; Disability:
 zero stated; Ethnicity: 40.7%-BME, 51.9%-non-BME; FT/PT: 88.8%-FT, 11.1%-PT; age-range:
 30-50=59.3%, over 50=40.7%. The selection of research outputs used self-assessment and
 internal review followed by external assessors in an EDI-compliant process that was monitored
 by our EDI Champion. The diversity of our staff means that we have outstanding links to global
 research (Figures 1-3) and the global economy (placed 3rd in the UK for international outlook
 (THES)).

 All new permanent staff are provided with research equipment set-up funds and funding for their
 first PhD studentship. They are also given a reduced teaching load and no substantive
 administrative roles. Those taking up their first academic position have a probationary period,
 the goals and targets for which are agreed between the probationer and the line manager, with
 progress reviewed at regular intervals. On completion of probation, the progress reviews are
 replaced by standard annual appraisals, which are used to help to assess progress against
 previous objectives and aspirations; these enable the revision of goals and targets to reflect an
 individual’s position on their career trajectory, with the aim of achieving and maintaining
 research of significant international influence. All staff must develop their own 5-year personal
 research plan, which is updated annually. These individual plans are then integrated into the
 relevant research group’s 5-year plan; this process is an important factor in establishing
 research group cohesion and guiding future recruitment. All staff have an annual appraisal,
 which refers to the individual's personal research plan; this is used by managers to guide each
 researcher's career path and promotion, whilst ensuring their integration with their research
 group and its impact strategy.

 Early-career researchers have a senior member of staff as a mentor, and are supported and
 guided by colleagues within their research group. All staff must also submit potential external
 grant applications for rigorous internal review. This review and feedback process ensures that
 less-experienced staff develop grant-writing skills under the guidance of senior colleagues.
 Junior staff are encouraged to apply for the EPSRC first-grant scheme, and there has been
 notable success in winning these grants. Formal Staff Development is provided by the
 University’s Staff Development Unit through a comprehensive programme of courses and
 activities for enhancing research and professional skills, which are fully compliant with The
 Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers. The University’s Research and
 Enterprise Division also runs regular training on research-related topics, often led by external
 specialists. Sabbatical leave is used to support early career development: for example, Barnett
 was supported in this way and subsequently won the Philip Leverhulme Prize, was promoted to
 Professor, and Deputy PVC for Research. Barnett has also managed to attract significant
 amounts of research funding.

 As careers develop, targeted support from experienced senior colleagues is used to help
 individuals attain the next level, as defined by promotion procedures. At the most senior levels,
 staff continue to be supported by special training opportunities provided by the University. Staff
 development at all levels is greatly enhanced by a strongly supportive and collaborative culture
 within the research groups, which enables the exchange of ideas and best practice. This culture
 allows privileged access to research resources and an extensive national and international
 network of senior colleagues – a network that saw 63 scholars, including senior professors and
 government advisors, visiting from across the globe during the REF period – all of whom enrich
 the research environment and partake in lasting collaborations.

 A framework of ethical and legal standards is provided by the University and professional
 societies to which staff belong. There is a School Research Ethics Officer who deals with low-
 risk undergraduate and postgraduate taught research. For research proposals, there is the
 University-level Science & Technology Cross-Schools Research Ethics Committee (SCI-TEC C-

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REC), which runs on a continuous cycle of ethical review throughout the calendar year.
 Academics are members of a number of different professional societies, which also provide
 ethical guidance and advice on professional standards of behaviour; these include the IMechE,
 ASME, RAeS, IET, IEEE, IOP, ACM, BCS, SPIE, OSA. These societies also provide a forum for
 exchange of ideas and collaboration opportunities with industry and academic colleagues via a
 series of colloquiums and international conferences.

 During this REF period, six faculty members left to take up promoted positions at other
 institutions and there were two retirements. We have subsequently rejuvenated their research
 groups by making eighteen new academic appointments, three of which were at Professorial
 level. Five faculty members were promoted to Professor, three promoted to Reader, and five
 promoted to Senior Lecturer. In terms of Research Assistants/Fellows, there were sixteen
 leavers and eighteen new starters.

 Research students

 The unit supports a thriving community of research students who follow the doctoral programme.
 Its aims are:

    1) to provide students with the full breadth and depth of knowledge and skills required
       to be independent researchers;
    2) to prepare students for careers in academia or the commercial and public sectors.

 Applications to study with the unit come as a result of academics’ reputations, and nationally-
 and internationally-advertised research projects and studentships. During this REF period, 49
 research scholarships were awarded, which comprise: 7 EPSRC, 4 industrial, 3 Chinese
 Scholarships Council, 3 Chancellors International Research Scholarships, and 30 School
 Scholarships, which are deployed to support grants and the research of new members of staff.

 At University level, all doctoral students are supported by the Doctoral School and are required
 to participate in transferable and professional skills training, tailored to individual need. They
 also have the option to participate in a range of other academic and professional training
 opportunities. The Student Life Centre provides coordinated access to a full range of special-
 study, personal and financial support services. Within the unit, doctoral students are supported
 by a Director of Doctoral Studies and associated administrative team. The unit runs a two-term
 research-training module for all first-year students, focused on skills at a level designed
 specifically to bridge those provided at University level and specific training provided within
 research groups – the primary communities for research students. The specific training related
 to students’ research draws upon the ongoing research activity of their group and is supported
 by research fellows and experienced fellow students within the group.

 To ensure research students experience a flavour of research undertaken beyond engineering,
 a weekly joint seminar series is held with members of this unit and those comprising UoA 11
 (Computer Science and Informatics), which visitors, staff and research students all attend.
 Every student is also given the opportunity to present at an international conference, and hence
 is required, in preparation, to present his or her research as part of the in-house seminar series.

 The research degrees undertaken cover the spectrum of activities offered by and across
 groups, and other disciplines. Examples of work extending beyond the unit include a range of
 medical image-processing projects supervised jointly by IISPRG and the Schools of Life
 Sciences, Psychology and the Brighton and Sussex Medical School (BSMS). There are typically
 60 PhD students associated with the groups at any one time, with each permanent member of
 staff supervising approximately three students. Students have at least one formal supervision
 meeting per month, which the student minutes; for audit purposes this meeting is recorded on
 the Sussex Direct database. All students have at least two supervisors with relevant expertise.
 In the first year of study, supervisors conduct a six-month interim appraisal and each year a


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 formal annual review is held, which includes a substantial report and viva-style interview. The
 submission rate within four years is greater than 70%.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Table 1 below outlines the research income attributable to the unit during this REF period. It can
 be observed that the scale of applications and awards are on a rising curve with an average
 success rate of 10%, illustrating that our research strategy has been highly successful. Not
 included in the Table is a recent £11 million investment in the Future Technologies Lab. The
 sources of income are diverse, with the industrial element (UK and non-UK) demonstrating the
 significance and impact of the unit’s work over a wide sectorial range.

 Each individual’s five-year research plan contributes to his or her group’s and the unit’s plans,
 which include anticipated funding and exploitation points. The entrepreneurial environment is
 evidenced by the formation of TexRAD Limited, Feedback plc and Stonechecker Software Ltd
 (see Chatwin ICS) and licence agreements with Plessey for the Electric Potential Sensor (EPS)
 generic measurement technology (see Prance ICS). The Space research group are world
 leaders in radioisotope micro-battery research. They have produced some of the world’s highest
 internal conversion efficiency radioisotope micro-batteries: two patent applications have been
 filed and planning is underway for a spinout company. This rising level of income ensures
 sustainability and demonstrates the alignment of our research with national priorities.

 Table 1 Funding applications and awards

  Year          13-14       14-15      15-16      16-17       17-18      18-19      Total

  Applications 3,909        8,088      8,549      12,179      13,975     38,239     84,939
  £000s
  Awards       130          1,175      973        2,663       2,523      1,284      8,748
  £000s

 Infrastructure and facilities use

 A specialist technician is attached to each research group, and the unit has well-maintained
 mechanical and electronics workshops. Electron microscopes and mass spectrometers are
 accessed via the School of Life Sciences. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and Computed
 tomography (CT) are accessed via collaborations with the Clinical Imaging Centre in BSMS and
 collaborations with NHS hospitals. The technical infrastructure is maintained through a
 combination of the relevant elements of external funding and University funds. Each group has
 essential software including: ANSYS; CAD (mechanical and electronic); MATLAB and toolboxes;
 Multisim; LabVIEW; and mobile and wireless development platforms.

 In addition, each group has a local High-Performance computer cluster and access to the
 University’s High-Performance computing facilities. The Space research group use the EPSRC
 National Epitaxy Facility at Sheffield to grow some of the materials used in their semiconductor
 devices.

 ACMI
 The Centre is well-resourced with a range of Communication and IoT Hardware and Software
 equipment, including OMNeT++ network simulation tools.
 Major equipment includes: six Rhode and Schwartz RF test chambers; two National
 Instrument LTE SDR platforms; six Rhode and Schwartz 1 GHz spectrum analysers; 28 GHz,
 mechanically rotatable channel sounder; various other radio and free-space optical transmission
 and reception modules, including WiFi, ZigBee and LiFi.
 Use of Facilities: Nekovee has close collaborations with Samsung (through a 5-year project on
 artificial intelligence for mobile networks), who have dedicated 0.15 FTE of a principal research
 engineer to provide consultancy, specialist knowledge and technology transfer to industry

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 standards for the duration of the project (with a value of £75k). Others include BT and Vodafone,
 through an ESRC-funded pilot on Connected and Smart Care – (TH, TAI). Ali has 5G research
 collaborations for testbed demonstrators using close links with Huawei and Cobham. Cobham
 Wireless have provided several industrial scholarships to support two research students.
 Sheng’s research interests cover connected vehicles, IoT, and cloud/edge computing. His
 research is funded by EPSRC (EP/P025862/1), Royal Society (IE160920) and the University of
 Sussex. He is also in receipt of an emerging research award for eHealth (TH) from University of
 Sussex. Sheng works with NXP Semiconductors, who have donated microcontrollers for
 intelligent vehicle development and have also contributed equipment to an EPSRC-funded
 project awarded to Sheng. He also collaborates with Toyota USA who are providing in-kind
 support in the form of consultancy and specialist knowledge for automotive communication
 systems. Oner’s research is on blind estimation for decryption, cognitive radio, signal
 identification, spectrum sensing and statistical signal processing.

 DCVRG has 4 specialist laboratory facilities:

 The Engine-Focused Laboratory (TSE) – estimated equipment-replacement value £3m –
 contains four engine test facilities:

    •   a heavy-duty diesel test-cell, with transient dynamometer, currently being used for EU-
        funded research involving a 7.2L I6 Caterpillar engine;
    •   a gasoline test-cell, with steady-state dynamometer, currently being used for industry-
        funded research involving an I3 DISI engine;
    •   a steady-state multi-cylinder production engine test-bed with dynamometer, various uses;
    •   two single-cylinder engine test-beds – current use: i) a Ricardo Hydra test engine, and ii)
        a Ricardo E6 variable compression ratio test engine.

 The laboratory also contains specialist instrumentation and diagnostics for IC engine research –
 PIV and PDA in-cylinder flow diagnostic tools – dSpace hardware, emissions measuring
 equipment, real-time cylinder pressure measurement, engine-block acceleration measurement
 and Holomodal (ESPI-Laser-based) structural noise, vibration and harshness measurement
 systems.
 Use of Facilities: Dunne and his group have collaborated continuously with Jaguar Land-Rover
 (EPSRC: EP/E03246X/1), Ford, Toyota, and Ricardo for more than two decades. Supported by
 these companies, successful funded research projects are making significant contributions in
 reducing CO2 and other emissions via evaporatively cooled IC-engines (TSE) (EPSRC:
 EP/M005755/1), (Ricardo), and a resonating free-piston generator (DSTL) (TSE). Professor
 Dunne has been awarded 4 patents (European Patent App. No.10718646.2; European Patent
 App. No. 08845993.8; United States Patent No. US8519553B2; UK Patent No: GB2454360).

 The facilities in Skarvelis-Kazakos’s Energy and Transport Laboratory include a Real-Time
 Power System Simulator, as well as battery and solar inverters as power sources. A weather
 station supplies real-time wind, solar and other measurements. The lab is able to emulate a
 small power network (micro-grid) and researchers are able to implement and validate novel
 techniques on energy network reliability, resilience and renewable energy integration (TAI, TSE).
 Use of Facilities: Innovate UK funded electrical and thermal energy storage for the reduction of
 emissions; the Energy Systems Catapult and an EU Grant also supported research into
 reconfigurable DC distribution networks (TSE).

 The facilities in Moradinegade Dizqah’s Smart Vehicles Control Laboratory include a dSPACE
 SCALEXIO hardware-in-the-loop simulator of Hybrid Electric/Electric Vehicles (HEV/EVs), a full
 suite of dSPACE ASM models for real-time simulation of vehicles, a UWB-based Indoor GPS
 system, a SIMULINK-based development kit of the Woodward’s ECUs, CPU/GPU processing
 power for real-time processing, bespoke self-driving rovers and Quanser QCar modules, and a
 Mini-Roller road test-rig to evaluate the parameters of the rovers (TAI, TSE).
 Use of Facilities: Model-based optimal design and energy management of hybrid electric/electric
 vehicles and advanced control strategies for connected autonomous vehicles.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Liang’s specialist Thermodynamics, Combustion, Heat Pump, Cryogenics and
 Refrigeration Laboratory is focussed on linear compressor technology.
 Use of Facilities: Research interests are in low-carbon cooling and heating systems using novel
 technologies, and the particular application areas are cam-less combustion engines, linear
 machines and control, Stirling coolers and refrigeration, which is supported by the Asa Briggs
 Fellowship fund (TAI, TSE).

 IISPRG
 Laboratories contain: three 2.4m-by-1.8m vibration-isolated optical tables; a custom-built x640
 florescence microscope; a Photek CDIR detector photon-counting camera; several CMOS SPAD
 cameras; 2 Nvidia GPUs; 10 Xilinx FPGAs donated by Xilinx; a frequency-doubled Nd+3:YAG
 laser; Casix LDC1500; Picoquant PDL800D pulsed laser diode; Power Technology Inc Laser
 diode; several Uniphase He-Ne and diode lasers; Meadowlark liquid crystal spatial light
 modulator (SLM) for the production of dynamic computer-generated holograms, correlation filters
 and optical convolutional neural networks; a CCD-based beam visualisation system; micro-
 positioning translation stages; interferometers; optics; CCD and CMOS cameras; data
 acquisition and processing tools; Impedance analysers; a CNC-controlled Excimer laser
 microfabrication system; and five high performance GPU-workstations for the implementation of
 high-speed data processing and deep-learning algorithms.
 Use of Facilities: Funded research includes: MOD target recognition and tracking; multi-camera
 tracking for 2020 Imaging Ltd. Current research, funded by 2020 Surveillance Ltd, is focussing
 on intelligent security systems, by using automatic tagging of people, locations and actions
 through deep learning (TAI). Birch works with Acutance Scientific Ltd on advanced optical
 design and Gunnebo Ltd on access control technologies; the work with Gunnebo has led to an
 Innovate UK-KTP that will develop AI, computer vision and multi-sensor approaches to improve
 the security and safety of their gate system (TAI). Electrical impedance tomography for non-
 invasive 3D imaging of breast cancer tumours was funded by a venture capital company WZVI
 and led to the successful implementation of a prototype breast cancer tomographic system
 (IEEE Trans on Medical Imaging) (TH). BritMedical Ltd are funding a project to detect cancer in
 CT and MRI data using enhanced AI convolutional neural networks (TH, TAI). Chatwin is part of
 the NIHR Global Health Research Unit for Neglected Tropical Diseases based in BSMS. This
 work uses bio-impedance spectroscopy for the detection of podoconiosis in Ethiopia, funded by
 NIHR (NIHR: 16/136/29) (TH). Young recently gained a Leverhulme research grant that aims to
 more closely mimic the biological developmental processes under genetic control, to develop a
 method for evolving structures of engineering relevance. He has also secured a grant with
 BSMS from the Charity Versus Arthritis entitled: “Does peripheral neuroinflammation predict
 chronicity following whiplash,” to which he is contributing advanced image-processing expertise
 to assess nerve damage (TH).

 RMSRG
 Laboratories include:
 Industrial automation: Flexible Manufacturing System with PLC, Pneumatics, Electro-
 pneumatics, Sensors, Actuators, Drives, Industrial robots, Industrial Networks, and Conveyor
 Belt, Machine-Vision, and computing equipment,
 Autonomous vehicles: Drone Zone with Motion-Tracking System; autonomous ground robots;
 Zumo robots; VEX Robot kits.
 Medical simulation facility: Incubator and 25 weeks premature baby ECG simulator
 (Respiration, Atrial, Ventricular and Junctional tachycardia, Atrioventricular Block,
 Hyperkalaemia, etc.(RAVTAH)). Pregnant mother and baby HR simulator (RAVTAH).
 Light microscopy and metrology facility: Bright-field microscope, Florescence microscope,
 Selective-plane illumination microscope, Opto-mechanics, Lenses, filters, EOTLs, Light sources.
 Machine facility: High-speed CMOS, sCMOS and CCD cameras; Machine-vision optics;
 Stereoscopic vision cameras; Plenoptic cameras.
 Human-robot interaction laboratory / Robotics facility: 2 Mitsubishi RV-2AJ robots; 2 built-in-
 house robots; ATI Mini-40 force/torque sensor; H-MAN (a planar robotic platform suitable for


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 testing of algorithms for physical human/robot interaction enabled by its simple structured
 workspace and basic 2-DOF mechanics).
 5G communications facility: 70 MHz to 6 GHz USRP Software Defined Radio Devices; 10
 MHz to 6 GHz USRP Software Defined Radio Reconfigurable Devices; High gain passive
 antennas.
 Tribology Laboratory / Optical interferometry test facility: PCS Instruments Optical
 interferometry test-rig of EHD film measurement (has the ability to measure film thickness of
 down to two nanometres and friction forces, in concentrated contacts with pressures up to
 2GPa. The rig has an adaptor for studying of heterogeneous slip/non-slip bearings); Mini
 Traction Machine (MTM) (a general purpose test-rig for friction measurement in various
 conditions of load, temperature and kinematics. It can be adapted for the study of hard or soft
 contacts, wear measurements, as well as for electrical capacitance measurement); Solartron
 A1260 Impedance/gain-phase analyser.
 These new facilities were created via a recent £11 million government investment in the newly-
 founded Future Technologies Laboratories.
 Use of Facilities: Glovnea secured funding for dielectric spectroscopy studies of lubricants,
 particle modelling of fluid-flow and contact mechanics (SKF); Rendon-Morales for a medical
 device for monitoring foetus’ electrocardiogram activity non-invasively, to inform clinicians on the
 status of the baby (EPSRC: RES/0560/7386/004) (TH); Nguyen for the OPTIMIN “Optimising
 Energy Management in Industry” project with Brunel University, Queen’s University Belfast,
 Cranfield University, Tata Steel UK, DPS-Global, Econotherm UK, Ltd., Crowley Energy Ltd.,
 (EPSRC: EP/P004636/1) (TSE); Yanan Li secured EPSRC New-Investigators Award, in
 collaboration with two industrial partners GripAble and Articares, and another award for
 Human/robot interaction (TH, TAI).

 STRC
 The main laboratory contains: A surface-mount PCB fabrication facility; PCB milling machines
 (LPKF PROTOMAT S103) to allow the use of high pin-density IC’s and ball-grid arrays; other
 items: surface polisher, high-temperature furnace, high-impedance component and dielectric
 characterisation equipment, and an impedance analyser; microwave and RF test and
 measurement equipment, spanning audio frequencies to 22 GHz; low-noise, low-frequency test
 and measurement equipment, including spectrum analysers and noise measurement apparatus.
 Additional specialist laboratories include: A clean-room containing resist spinners, optical
 lithography and e-beam lithography, ion etching, thermal evaporation, sputtering, plasma etching
 and chemical/wet bench equipment; an Optomec Aerojet HD: a high-resolution 3D printer
 allowing printing on arbitrary surfaces.
 Use of Facilities: Roggen uses machine-learning techniques and miniature sensors to recognise
 and understand human activities (e.g. EPSRC: EP/N007816/1) and context, such as attention
 management during surgery (EU) (TH, TAI). His ongoing research embedding intelligence into
 miniature and mobile devices and multimodal sensor-fusion approaches has been funded by
 Google, Huawei, NUMERO EIGHT, Metropolitan Police, Unilever, EPSRC (e.g. EP/R013837/1).
 Prance created the electric potential sensor (EPS), which has been commercialised by Plessey
 Semiconductors in an on-chip version – the EPIC sensor (DSTL) – for medical (Facial Palsy),
 healthcare, forensic and consumer applications (TH, TAI). The group is also working with:
 Philips Healthcare, on electrophysiological monitoring for home healthcare (EU); Meggitt
 Sensing Systems Ltd (IUK), on sensors for aerospace applications; and Rescon Ltd, a research
 and consultancy SME developing systems in the area of human performance; on the
 development of a face-mounted EPS data acquisition headset (EMTEQ Ltd. Precision Varionic
 International Ltd); and additionally, supported by GCHQ, on the development of a RF-NMR
 system using electric field detection. Munzenrieder secured funding for shape sensing textile for
 orthotics (EPSRC) and also medical wound management (TH).

 SRG
 In addition to specific expertise in specialist areas of microelectronics, space, defence, and
 aerospace, SRG offers a wide variety of general high-performance engineering and physical
 science research, consultancy, and contract services. SRG provides its services from
 dedicated, access-controlled laboratories and offices to facilitate confidential research for

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 government and industry.
 Space Research Group capabilities and facilities include: Electrostatic discharge-controlled
 laboratories and materials handling; Radioactive materials handling; Optical engineering dark-
 room; Electromagnetically shielded room and measurement; Specialist instrumentation design,
 fabrication, and characterisation; Radiation detector and spectrometer design, fabrication, and
 characterisation; Optical systems design, fabrication, and characterisation; Space mission
 development, planning, and analysis; Development of custom Monte-Carlo models and signal
 processing codes; Simulated-environment testing and qualification (-70°C to 180°C, 1 bar to 10-
 12
    Bar); X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy; Radiation detection and measurement; UV, X-ray, γ-
 ray, and β--particle illumination of samples and devices; Optical microscopy; Ultra-low-noise
 electronics development and analysis; Semiconductor characterisation, including ultra-low
 current and capacitance measurements.
 Use of Facilities: Funded by STFC and EPSRC, Barnett has worked extensively with colleagues
 at the EPSRC National Epitaxy Facility to produce numerous III-V epitaxial wafers of exceptional
 quality by metalorganic vapour-phase epitaxy; those wafers and devices fabricated from III-V
 materials have enabled Barnett to secure her place as the world's leading expert in III-V
 radiation detector physics, her research is supported by several grants (including STFC:
 ST/M004635/1, ST/R001804/1; EPSRC: EP/P021271/1) and to establish the UK's foremost
 group working on radioisotope voltaic micro-batteries (STFC: ST/M002772/1, ST/P001815/1;
 UKRI). A new technique for spacecraft attitude determination has been invented and is being
 commercialised (STFC).

 TFMRC
 Occupies a dedicated building containing the following experimental rigs:

    •   a multiple cavity rig, to investigate flow and heat transfer in high-pressure compressor
        internal air systems (stacked titanium discs 220 mm radius, heated outer ~250°C, max
        8000 rev/min);
    •   a rim-seal effectiveness rig, to investigate ingestion of hot mainstream gas into a turbine
        rotor-stator cavity (an engine-representative single-stage axial-turbine, rated 400 kW,
        pressure ratio ~2.7:1, driven by air from the DART compressor, maximum speed 14,000
        rev/min);
    •   a bolt windage rig, to investigate flows around rotating bolts with optical access for PIV;
        measurements of torque are made on the drive shaft, driven up to 10,000 rev/min.

 A range of high-pressure compressors drive the rigs: a modified Rolls-Royce DART aero engine-
 driven compressor (10 kg/s, 3.5 bar, believed unique); Atlas CopCo ZT250 (0.8 kg/s; 7 bar,
 gauge-cooled and dried to 25 ºC); or Atlas CopCo ZT110 (0.6 kg/s; 7.5 bar, gauge-cooled and
 dried to 25 ºC). Measurement and telemetry capabilities to capture and transmit data include:
 liquid-crystal techniques; Scanivalve DSA systems; Laser-Doppler Anemometry; Particle-Image
 Velocimetry; hot-wire anemometry. Datatel radio telemetry provides non-contact transmission of
 rotating thermocouple signals. In addition, the centre has significant experience in high density
 installation of temperature and pressure sensors in rotating rigs. Computation is undertaken
 using in-house structured staggered grid-based LES solver for both compressible and
 incompressible flows such as combustion, and a highly parallel unstructured compressible LES-
 solver for aero-acoustics and heat transfer. A wind-tunnel and 3D printing facilities also enable
 validations of simulations to be undertaken.
 Use of Facilities: Long secured funding from GE for research into gas-turbine internal air
 systems, in particular, the thermofluid mechanics of rotor-rotor and rotor-stator cavities (TSE).
 Kanjirakkad is working with power generation companies GE and Siemens on flow leakage
 effects (tip/shroud/hub/seal), flow and heat transfer on blades and within rotating cavities as well
 as boundary-layer flow transition (TSE). Sorguven collaborates with a number of companies
 completing an axial-fan design for Aironn and the design and simulation of a centrifugal water
 pumps for Alarko-Carrier (TSE). Modelling of the muffin-baking process for Beko plc has
 delivered oven design optimisation via simulations to predict muffin colour and height. Simulation
 of the primary clarifier baffles for Southern Water have shown that a horizontal baffle increases
 the effectiveness of the sedimentation process. The UK-SPINE Knowledge Exchange Fund has

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported interdisciplinary research into the use of Electronic Delivery Devices for the efficient
 delivery of inhaled pharmaceuticals to lung tissue (TH). Petrov is funded by MTU Aero Engines
 AG (MTU-G1804) to develop computer codes to perform rapid sensitivity analysis of their
 bladed-disk gas-turbine components, which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions (TSE).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The unit has made a series of profoundly important contributions in research, economic, and
 societal terms. Our research strategy strongly supports interdisciplinary and collaborative
 research resulting in numerous collaborations across the University and with other national and
 international universities. We are collaborative by nature, and work with a myriad of national and
 extranational companies and charities.

 An impactful example of such collaborations is the NIHR Global Health Research Unit for
 Neglected Tropical Diseases located in BSMS. IISPRG is a partner in this, and the research unit
 collaborates with three African partners (CDT-Africa at Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia; the
 Armauer Hansen Research Institute, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; and the Mycetoma Research
 Centre, University of Khartoum, Sudan) plus: Lymphatec (USA), Global Health Technologies
 (USA), Imperial College, Helmholtz (Germany), London School of Hygiene and Tropical
 Medicine, and NePAN (Ethiopia) (TH). The crucial importance of this work and its impact on the
 lives of many individuals has recently been recognised in the award of an OBE for services
 tackling neglected tropical diseases to the NIHR Unit’s co-director, Professor Gail Davey.

 Locally within Engineering there are a significant number of inter-group collaborations, PhD co-
 supervision, joint projects and publications that demonstrate the centrality of collaboration to our
 research. The development of impact case studies (ICSs) also strategically motivates and
 captures work that contributes to society and the economy: all seven research groups are
 working on new ICSs, with ambitions to spin-out new technology and companies. These
 activities receive active support from the School Research & Knowledge Exchange Committee,
 the University and the Sussex Innovation Centre.

 Each of our research groupings has specific successes to highlight, as follows:

 ACMI is very active in collaboration with industry, academia, funding bodies and policymakers
 around the mobile, wireless and IoT ecosystem. Nekovee is a member of European
 Telecommunications Standards Institute - Industry Specification Group on NFV and the IEEE
 Technical Committee on Cognitive Networks. He has been a keynote speaker at: the
 International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Summit on 5G (September 2019), 5G Global
 Summit (June 2019), the annual IET 5G event (2017/18/19); and a panel speaker at: the IEEE
 WCNC (April 2019) and IEEE PIMRC (September 2019), and the Global 5G technology
 Congress (Shanghai, 2017/18/19), the UK Spectrum Policy forum (May 2018) and Telco AI
 Summit (November 2019). Nekovee and Ali have ongoing collaborations with Plum consultancy
 – a specialist consultancy to communication regulators in the UK and externally – and this has
 resulted in extensive 5G radio propagation measurement campaigns at the Sussex campus (at
 3.5 and 28 GHz), which have been published in IEEE and IET conferences as well as having
 formed the basis for new 5G signal propagation models by the ITU. Ali was a member of the
 technical program committee for several IEEE international conferences and was an invited
 Keynote speaker at the International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Internet of Things,
 Paris 2018. He collaborates with Govia Thameslink railway, Cobham Wireless, and Plum
 consulting. He is associate editor of the journal IET Wireless Sensor Systems and on the
 editorial board of the International Journal of Sensor Networks and Data Communications.
 Zheng has collaborations with Beihang and Tsinghua Universities on connected self-driving
 cars, which is partially supported by a grant from the Royal Society. He collaborates with NXP
 Semiconductor UK, who provide him with equipment. Toyota USA are providing support on
 automotive communication systems. He was conference chair of: the 5th International
 Conference on Internet of Vehicles 2018; the IEEE International Workshop on Automotive IoT
 (IEEE Auto-IoT 2015); and is on the organising committee for the IEEE International Conference

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on Sensing, Communication and Networking. He is editor in chief of IGI Global International
 Journal of Vehicular Telematics and Infotainment Systems. He is also on the editorial board of:
 IEEE Access and the Elsevier Ad hoc Networks Journal. He is a member of IoT Standardization
 Research Groups at IEEE ComSoc Communities. Oner is an editor of the IEEE Communication
 Letters.

 DCVRG research is key to the long-term activities of a number of commercial organisations,
 evidenced by collaborations of longer than a decade, including with: Jaguar Land Rover
 Engineering Centre (adaptive cylinder-pressure reconstruction for production engines); and
 Hadley Industries, UK (informing cold-rolled forming design and analysis). More recently,
 commercial collaborations of two or more years include those with Ford, Denso, and Ricardo
 (particularly on the EPSRC-funded project: Evaporative Cooling of Internal Combustion Engines,
 2015-2019 (for which Ricardo funded completion) (TSE). DCVRG has also received £400k from
 the DSTL-DASA in the past 2 years. Group faculty work with the Transport Knowledge KTN and
 a range of universities, including: Oxford University, Brunel, Beijing Information Science and
 Technology University, University of Birmingham, Coventry University, and Queen Mary
 University of London. The Group’s industrial sponsors and partners include: the EPSRC, the EU,
 BP, the UK Government, Caterpillar, Jaguar Land Rover, Ford, Denso, Ricardo, Garret, Spirax
 Sarco, Oxford Magnet Technology, Allen-Bradley, Johnson Matthey, AVL, Flander’s Make
 (Belgium), and Quanser, (Canada). Engagement activities include a keynote presentation
 (Dunne) at Linear Power, September 2015. Dunne is on the editorial board of the Journal of
 Sound and Vibration, Journal Vehicles, Journal of Autonomous Intelligence. Fussey is Chairman
 of the IMechE Automotive Division Southern Region. As a Member of the EU Automotive
 Research body EARPA and the Technical Committee for the Symposium for Combustion
 Control (2015 to present), he influences sustainable research policy at international level.
 Skarvelis-Kasakos is on the Smart Grid Technical Committee’s Journal Activities Sub-
 Committee (proposing topics for special issues of the IEEE Trans Industrial Electronics). William
 Wang was awarded 'Excellent Oral Presentation Award' for the paper: 'Sliding Power in Aircraft
 Landing' at the 4th International Conference on Mechanical Design and Engineering, 28th-31st
 March 2018, Beijing. Chang Wang was invited to talk on ‘3D Printing and Total Hip
 Replacement’ at the 11th International Congress on Orthopaedic Advanced Techniques and
 Clinical Translational Research, Shanghai (TH). Dizqah has active collaborations with the Tier-1
 supplier FEV in Germany and with four universities throughout Europe. Kun Liang is a
 programme committee member of ICEC (International Cryogenic Engineering Conference) 2018
 and networked with KTH Sweden, Electrolux AB, Huawei Sweden R&D, STFC/RAL, Volvo. He
 is a guest editor of the International Journal of Refrigeration. He collaborates with Professor
 Savvas Tssou at Brunel University, and Professor Richard Stone at Oxford University.

 IISPRG created image-processing algorithms for texture analysis of medical CT and MRI scans,
 which resulted in long-term collaborations with BSMS and a spin-out company: TexRAD Limited,
 now Feedback plc (see ICS). Feedback Medical gained CE approval for TexRad to be used on
 non-small cell cancer patients directly; obtaining CE approval led to the licencing and distribution
 agreement with General Electric Healthcare for TexRAD®. Hence clinical cancer patients benefit
 from optimised treatment plans that avoid invasive procedures (TH, TAI). IQ-AI Ltd recently
 gained US-FDA, Korean-FDA and CE approval for the use of IISP algorithms as a kidney stone
 diagnostic and treatment tool, which has been used on more than 1000 patients internationally,
 giving them sales in South Korea, USA and Europe. TexRAD metrics are used to guide
 Lithotripter stone fragmentation therapy. In 2015, TexRad won one of the University’s Achieving
 Impact Awards. IISP is collaborating with the NIHR Global Health Research Unit for Neglected
 Tropical Diseases to develop a bio-impedance spectroscopy measurement system for the
 detection of podoconiosis in Ethiopia, alongside Addis Ababa University, Wollega University and
 Georgia Institute of Technology (see above). The IISP group developed a prototype Electrical
 Impedance Tomography (EIT) machine and participated in clinical trials at the John Radcliffe
 Hospital in Oxford; the prototype Sussex MK4 EIT machine successfully detected breast cancer
 tumours (TH). IISP are working very closely with 2020 Surveillance Ltd using Artificial
 Intelligence for Person Reidentification (reID) in the context of public spaces security, through
 projects fully-funded by 2020 Surveillance Ltd. The group is collaborating with BritMedical Ltd,

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 who are funding a project to detect cancer in CT and MRI medical-scan data using deep-
 learning neural networks, in collaboration with Indiana University (TH, TAI). The group has also
 conducted and published research with: University of Shanghai for Science and Technology;
 University of Macau; Baghdad University of Technology; University of Basra; Tashkent,
 Uzbekistan. It is are collaborating with many other companies including: Headmapper Ltd.;
 Photek Ltd.; Acutance Scientific Ltd.; Gunnebo Ltd.; Spiral Scratch Ltd; Nigerian
 Communications Satellite Ltd, Abuja, Nigeria; LymphaTech®, Atlanta, USA. Young chairs
 sessions at – and is on the organising committee of – the annual SPIE conference on Target
 Recognition and Tracking, and delivered a keynote paper at the SPIE Target Recognition and
 Tracking XXIX conference. Birch was also on the programme committee for SPIE International
 conferences: Video Surveillance and Transportation Imaging Applications (2014 & 15). On a
 field trip to Iraq in 2018, Chatwin gave a keynote presentation at a workshop “Proper Planning
 of Development and Construction Starts from the Base Map” on “Digital Mapping using LIDAR
 for GIS”, in addition to several presentations on security, resilience engineering, and medical
 imaging research. He is also a member of REF Sub-panel 12 and the EPSRC College.

 RMSRG: Glovnea has strong links with universities in Japan, and industrial research
 collaborations in Europe with SKF and Mahle. He is an Invited/visiting professor at Kyushu
 University, Japan (since 2011), and is on the editorial board of the journals Lubricants and
 Annals of Engineering. He is a member of the scientific committees for: the International
 Conference Advanced Concepts in Mechanical Engineering, Lasi, Romania, 2014; International
 Conference ROTRIB ’16/19, Galati, Romania 2016- 2019. Tribology invited lecture: CRRC
 Zhuzhou Electric Co., Ltd, (part of CRRC Corporation Limited) China, September 2017. Aviles-
 Espinosa collaborates with the University of Texas with whom he developed an advanced drug
 delivery system (TH). Rendon-Morales sits on the EPSRC eFutures 2 steering group – the
 EPSRC-funded electronics research network. In collaboration with researchers from EU and the
 NHS Brighton and Sussex University hospitals, she designed an innovative stress-free foetus
 monitoring system (TH). She has been a keynote speaker at the Paediatric & Neonatal
 Research Symposium 2017 and 2018, and contributed to SoapBox Science Women in Science,
 Brighton, 2018. Nguyen collaborates with: Countryside Services Ltd, Devenish Nutrition Ltd,
 AES Kilroot Power Ltd., Williams Industrial Services Ltd., and Quinn Ltd., and OPTIMIN
 “Optimising Energy Management in Industry” (TSE), Tata Steel UK, DPS-Global, Econotherm
 UK, Ltd., Crowley Energy Ltd, Brunel University, Queen’s University Belfast, Cranfield
 University. In the context of advanced robotic applications, Yanan Li has established extensive
 collaborations with local and international academics, including: HIT, Zhejiang University,
 Tsinghua University in China, NTU, NUS, ASTAR in Singapore, NTT in Japan, TUM, DLR in
 Germany and Imperial College. He served as Technical Committee member on Bio-
 mechatronics and Bio-robotics Systems and on Autonomous Bionic Robotic Aircraft, IEEE SMC
 Society, and AE, IPC member and Chair for over ten conferences in robotics (TH, TAI).

 STRC: In the area of wearable technologies, the STRC contributes to open-access in the
 community through the creation of numerous reference machine-learning datasets for human
 activity recognition from wearable sensor data. Many of these datasets have become reference
 datasets in the community, such as the OPPORTUNITY dataset of activities of daily living, the
 Daphnet dataset of Freezing of Gait in Parkinson, the Skoda manufacturing activities dataset,
 and the most recent SHL Locomotion and Transportation Dataset. Furthermore, they lead
 international activities raising the awareness of these datasets, and the research Centre, through
 the organisation of international machine learning challenges in the field of human activity
 recognition using such datasets. STRC organised the SHL Activity Recognition Challenge in
 2018 in Singapore (19 teams) and 2019 in London (15 teams), with plans for a 2020 edition in
 Cancun. Roggen was programme committee member for: the annual conference of the IEEE
 Body Sensor Networks (2017, 2018, 2019); the Ubicomp conference 2016; the International
 Conference on Wearable Computers (2007 to 2019). He was on the organising committee for
 the International Workshop on Human Activity Sensing Corpus and Application (2014 to 2019),
 sponsorship chair for the International Conference on Wearable Computers & Ubicomp (2019),
 and participated in the British Science Festival (2017). Collaborations in the area of wearable
 technologies are with: Unilever on consumer behaviour research, Huawei on mobile activity

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sensing, University of Linz (Austria), University of Grenoble (INRIA), DFKI (Germany), University
 of Nagoya (Japan), Ritsumeikan University Kyoto (Japan), Kyushu Institute of Technology
 (Japan), University of Oulu (Finland), University of Siegen (Germany), Ss. Cyril and Methodius
 University (Macedonia), Queen Mary University of London, Ritsumeikan University (Japan),
 Kyushu Institute of Technology (Japan), and others.

 Electric Potential Sensor (EPS) technology-driven collaborations include: Plessey
 Semiconductors (research and licensing); Philips Healthcare (electro-encephalogram using
 EPS, (TH)); British Geological Survey (structural monitoring); Rescon Ltd (DARPA) (through-
 clothing cardiac monitoring); Meggitt Sensing Systems and Plessey (gas-turbine monitoring,
 (TSE)); Kodak European Research (unshielded EPS applications); Plessey (non-contact control,
 gesture identification); MOD (electric-fields for position and movement sensing); and the Home
 Office (forensic fingerprinting). The Group works with the Electronics, Sensors, Photonics and
 ICT KTNs and a range of key academic collaborators including with: Oxford Institute of
 Biomedical Engineering (foetal monitoring); University of Sheffield (MRI instrumentation); Cardiff
 School of Optometry (electro-retinograms); and the Universities of Leicester, Newcastle and
 Sheffield (radiation sensing). Collaborations in the area of flexible-electronics are with: Corning
 (flexible-electronics on glass), John Florence (orthotics), University of Bolzano (Italy), and
 others.

 SRG: The group’s industrial links are extensive and include: large multinationals, SMEs and
 government agencies. SRG is developing X-ray fluorescence spectrometers that can analyse
 seabed mineral resources in situ. The instruments are for subsea materials analysis with
 remotely operated vehicles at depths of ~4km, as well as in production monitoring of seafloor
 collecting and stockpiling machinery, and in slurry-transfer pipes and inlets. Their research in
 this area has received significant interest from industry, including from Schlumberger. The group
 has produced some of the world’s highest internal conversion efficiency radioisotope micro-
 batteries and are working to commercialise the technology, which is expected to be of significant
 economic and national strategic value. Such high reliability, harsh environment tolerant power
 sources are required for numerous defence and governmental applications (e.g. for weapons
 systems, encryption keys and anti-tamper devices), as well as biomedical applications including
 power systems for neurostimulators to alleviate the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease and
 chronic pain (TH). Two patent applications have been filed and planning is underway for a spin-
 out company.

 A compact spacecraft attitude determination device enables near systems with hemispherical
 fields-of-view and star tracker level performance in a substantially more compact, lower mass
 instrument. The Group’s contribution in this area has been greatly facilitated by Barnett’s Philip
 Leverhulme Prize, and a patent for the technology has now been filed. Commercial partners
 (SSTL and Clyde Space) have been secured. A spin-out company is planned. The technology is
 also useful for missile systems, GPS-denied environment navigation, autonomous shipping, and
 direction finding in laser-dazzle attacks. The technology will facilitate new commercial and
 scientific use of space.

 TFMRC: Primary aero-engine collaborators have been Rolls-Royce Plc, GE Aviation and MTU
 Aero Engines AG, with a smaller arrangement with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries for industrial
 gas-turbine engines. Key academic collaborators include the University of Cambridge; University
 of Bath; Beijing University, China; Shanghai University, China; and the University of Nantes,
 France. Petrov is on the Editorial Board of the journal Shock and Vibration; his keynote lectures
 include: at 6th Symposium on Mechanics of Slender Structures, Shanghai, 19-20 December
 2016; on Nonlinear Dynamics, Vibration, Acoustic and Noise Control at the 4th Annual World
 Congress of Advanced Materials 2015 (WCAM-2015), May 2015, China. He also organised the
 mini-symposium "Dynamics of nonlinear structures with contact interfaces" for the 6th European
 Conference on Computational Mechanics (Solids, Structures and Coupled Problems) (ECCM 6),
 2018, Glasgow, UK, and presented four papers at ASME Turbo Expo 2018: Turbomachinery
 Technical Conference and Exposition (Oslo, Norway), at which he was a session organizer and
 chair. Petrov is also a member of the International Advisory Committee for the Collaborative

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Innovation Centre for Advanced Aero-Engine of China. Apart from gas turbine research, TFMRC
 is providing significant support to UK Industry by assisting them to design new products via their
 ability to use CAD alongside numerical modelling to create and optimise designs; examples
 include: Aironn Ltd (axial-fan design); Alarko-Carrier Ltd (centrifugal water pump design); Beko
 plc (muffin baking ovens); Southern Water (water clarifier design); UK Spine KE fund (electronic
 drug delivery devices for lung tissue). TFMRC were awarded a £28k UKRI Higher Education
 Innovation Fund (HEIF) Grant to design, CE certify, manufacture, and distribute / sell (not-for-
 profit) Covid-19 CE certified face-shields to hospitals, care homes, other front-line workers and
 businesses, in an effort to help protect the public from COVID-19. The group successfully
 achieved its initial production target was 10,000 shields. Via the above activities, the TFMRC is
 making a very significant contribution to sustainable living and wealth creation.

 Figures 1 & 2 below give an indication of the volume and geographical spread of the unit’s
 collaborations. Figure 3 shows that almost 69% of publications are international collaborations.

 Figure 1 Collaborations map, global (2014-2020) (SciVal). Total collaborating institutions: 1,377;
 total co-authored publications: 1,677.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 2 Collaborations map, Europe and Asia (2014-2020) (SciVal)




 Figure 3 Publication collaborations (SciVal)




                                                                     Page 16
