Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University

 Unit of Assessment: Engineering (12)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 The School of Engineering at Newcastle University has a long history. Founded in 1871 (as
 Armstrong College), we remain committed to the vision of our eponymous founder, namely
 interdisciplinary research to meet contemporary global challenges. Those challenges have
 evolved over the past 150 years and so have we.

 In 2017, we created an integrated School of Engineering recognising that the challenges we face
 today are not the province of any single engineering discipline. Our community is committed to
 an ambitious research agenda, designed to address Global Research Themes (GRTs, Figure 1)
 by capturing the synergies between disciplines. Working together alongside industry and other
 partners, the disciplines are providing research excellence at every scale from the nano, micro
 (and microbial), through urban, industrial and marine assets, and from all the sciences (physical,
 biological and social) to meet the GRTs.




 Figure 1. Global Research Themes integrate across our disciplines. indicates proportion of
 discipline engaged in each theme.

 Disciplinary excellence, the bedrock for our interdisciplinary vision, is provided through our 4
 Disciplines and 16 Groups (Table 1). Colleagues are empowered to cross disciplinary
 boundaries to address GRTs supported by a vibrant and ambitious research culture (Figure 1).
 Collaborations occur at all levels from shared students to multi-million pound grants with
 partnerships that are local, national and international.
 Table 1. Research outputs by group 2014-2020. Research income assigned to group of PI.
 PhD/EngD completions Jan 2014 to July 2020. ∆ Denotes new group since REF2014.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Discipline Group                                            Returned  PhD/   Research Journal Impact
                                                               Staff  EngDs spend (2014- Papers case
                                                              (FTE) completed   2020)          studies
                              Advanced Materials &              9.3     46     £4.59M     197
     Engineering
     Chemical

                              Electrochemical Engineering∆
                              Materials, Concepts and           5       13      £5.08M      55
                              Reaction Engineering∆
                              Process Intensification          9.9      64      £5.33M     168
                              Environmental Engineering       11.4      56       £9.27M    199     [10]
 Engineering
 Geospatial
 Civil and




                              Future Mobility∆                11.4      30       £7.96M    126      [4]
                              Geospatial Engineering          11.2      23      £10.44M    146      [7]
                              Geotechnics and Structures      15.6      27       £8.63M    155      [7]
                              Water                           16.2      31      £22.02M    180    [7], [8]
                              Electrical Power                13.2      77      £31.60M    167    [2], [9]
 Engineering
 electronic
 Electrical and




                              Emerging Technology and          9.6      24       £3.83M    178
                              Materials
                              Intelligent Sensing &            11       80      £4.65M     248      [5]
                              Communications
                              Microsystems                      6       37      £3.26M      63      [1]
                              Bioengineering                    8       24      £1.57M     144      [3]
     and Marine Technology
     Mechanical Engineering




                              Design Manufacture and           10       34      £5.12M     171
                              Materials
                              Fluid Dynamics and Thermal        5       8       £1.57M     184
                              Systems                                          (+£5.25M
                                                                               computing
                                                                                 time)
                              Marine, Offshore and Subsea     14.9      36      £3.21M     213      [6]
                              Technology
                              Total                           167.7    610      £128.1M    2594



 No single metric can capture the breadth of our ambition, and our vision is far from complete, yet
 since 2014 we have:

 •   Generated over £110M in new research awards and £24M in consultancy from more than
     800 different projects
 •   Published over 2500 papers in refereed journals
 •   Published papers with authors from 1208 different institutions in 87 countries
 •   Invested more than £130M in infrastructure projects
 •   Increased contracted-researchers from 55 to 152
 •   Received more than 20 major awards (Fellowships and prestigious prizes)
 •   Worked hard on our journey to improve diversity, e.g. in the last four years our proportion of
     female professors increased from 7.8 to 12.5%


 Vision & Research Strategy



                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our School vision is “to transform our world through developing and applying multi-disciplinary
 engineering knowledge for global societal benefit”.

 The School of Engineering was formed from the realisation that the ambitions implicit in our
 disciplinary UoAs for REF2014 could not be met by those units alone. We needed a creative,
 inclusive, interdisciplinary and globally impactful approach to engineering research.

 The creation of this new integrated School has benefited from NU’s five guiding principles for
 Research for Discovery and Impact:

 1. Working together. There are two simple truths at the heart of our vision: our people are the
    source of our excellence and by working together we can transcend our individual limitations
    and so rise to meet our global challenges to create an institution that is truly outstanding.
    We aim to embed equality, diversity and inclusion values to enable equal and inclusive
    access to decision making, development and opportunity. We promote integration and
    interdisciplinary work to create the synergies between ourselves and our disciplines. This
    promotion is both formal and strategic (through institutional initiatives such as Newcastle
    University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs) and strategic industrial partnerships)
    and informal and serendipitous (through seminars, sandpits, charity fund raising and social
    events). Both approaches work and both are necessary.

 2. Excellence in infrastructure. Excellent people deserve excellent facilities and our £130M
    investment has three strands: (i) The flagship refurbishment of the Stephenson Building will
    create a world class working environment that enables inclusivity and fosters
    interdisciplinarity with cross-disciplinary research hubs in areas such as bioengineering and
    digital manufacturing. (ii) Other investments support our disciplinary bedrock including, for
    example, geotechnical facilities, fluids testing, battery and drive chain analysis facilities and
    many modest, but vital, career enhancing investments in new staff. (iii) Partnerships with key
    stakeholders and UKRIC are developing a unique suite of testbeds that streamline the
    innovation cycle and accelerate impact. These include large marine facilities (with cavitation
    tunnel) at the Port of Blyth; Driving the Electric Revolution North East Industrialisation Centre
    close to Nissan’s Electric Vehicle factory; BE:WISE, a Northumbrian Water pilot treatment
    facility at Birtley; the UKCRIC National Green Infrastructure Facility; the Urban Observatory
    and smart energy systems and storage facilities within the Urban Sciences Building with
    support from Siemens, Newcastle City Council, Northumbrian Water and Northern
    Powergrid.

 3. Visibly leading. We lead nationally and internationally. A significant number of Engineering
    colleagues have driven research and policy to help realise our global challenges during the
    REF period e.g. Chief Scientific Advisor for the Department of Transport (Blythe); WHO
    (Graham), Committee on Climate Change (Dawson); Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
    Change (Fowler); National Infrastructure Commission Technical Expert Panel (Dawson);
    EPSRC Advisory Council (Taylor); EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team (Chakraborty); Royal
    Society report on Hydrogen (Metcalfe); FREng (current Blythe, Bull, Mecrow, Metcalfe,
    Postlethwaite, Yakovlev, and emeritus Braiden, Johnson, Morris, O’Connell, Page); RAEng
    Chair (Metcalfe).

 4. Integrity and ethics. We hold ourselves to the highest standards of professional conduct,
    openness, fairness, and honesty. This reflects our engineering ideals and the institutional
    imperative of EDI to act fairly and honestly, as discussed in section 2. PhDs and new
    researchers are trained in the principles of Responsible Research and Innovation. We
    promote rigour, integrity and honesty during preparation and peer review of papers and
    proposals, fully acknowledging contributions from colleagues and collaborators, and we
    resolve cases of misconduct through application of the University code of practice
    (www.ncl.ac.uk/research/researchgovernance/goodpractice/). Ethical issues are

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     systematically reviewed during the costing and proposal approval process and the School
     Ethics Committee (Chair: Prof. Degenaar) considers all cases where issues have been
     raised (following the University’s Policy and Procedure). Research data and publications are
     open access unless there are overriding commercial or ethical reasons not to be.

 5. Responding to current and future global challenges. Focusing our research around
    GRTs enables us to be more responsive, interdisciplinary and strategic. They are more than
    just themes to describe what we do, they present ongoing challenges that are leading to
    significant research success and impact (as summarised below), and will inform our research
    strategy for the next REF period.

 GRT 1: Engineering for Net Zero. This theme looks to deliver a thriving, low-carbon economy
 by 2050, resulting from rapid and coordinated action at scale, across sectors. Underpinned by
 flagship awards, including RAEng Chair in low carbon technologies, leadership of UKRI Driving
 the Electric Revolution Industrialisation Centres programme, EPSRC’s National Centre for
 Energy Systems Integration and EPSRC’s CDT in Sustainable Electric Propulsion our research
 is developing efficient engines for air, road, rail, shipping transport; batteries for electric vehicles;
 renewable energy technologies, especially hydrogen; carbon capture & storage; and smart grid
 technologies. Over the next REF period our emphasis will be on integrating across these
 systems to enable households to achieve net zero living.

 GRT 2: Engineering for better health. Health engineering has a 70 year history at NU. With
 the £5.6M EPSRC Frontiers award, we have engineered biological systems for advanced
 wastewater treatment and pollution remediation. Advanced new materials, precision
 manufacturing techniques, and neural engineering are helping to restore human mobility e.g.
 Controlling Abnormal Network Dynamics with Optogenetics, £10M Wellcome/EPSRC grant; and
 our sensors and home modification technologies enable aging populations to maintain
 independence for longer. Over the REF period, expansion in Bioengineering and investments in
 the Stephenson biomedical facilities will help us to develop devices with smart sensors to
 improve further quality of life.

 GRT 3: Engineering for a digital economy. Engineering is a core member of the Turing
 Institute and hosts Turing Fellows and projects. We are developing fundamental new
 technologies, from sensors, geospatial data acquisition and processing, smart transport and
 energy systems, enabled by microprocessors designed and optimised for AI calculations. These
 have enabled us to pioneer a “digital twin” of a water system, an industry first. Our flagship £8M
 Urban Observatory, the world’s largest set of publicly available real time urban data, is being
 replicated in Bristol, Manchester, Sheffield, and Birmingham through our role as lead of the
 UKCRIC Observatories programme. Over the next REF period we will exploit the full potential of
 real-time data to develop new mechanisms to leverage data science and simulation and build,
 for example, the foundations for an Urban Digital Twin.

 GRT 4: Materials innovation for efficient and responsible use of resources. Our research
 is underpinning the nation’s future competitiveness and creativity through successful
 development and innovation of new materials and manufacturing techniques. Applications
 range from the nanoscale, through 3D printing, artificial limbs, up to construction of the built
 environment. We draw inspiration from biological systems that have led to lighter, self-healing,
 more sustainable materials. Major grants include the £1.8M EPSRC North East Centre for
 Energy Materials, and most recently exploratory work on biological construction through the


                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 university’s £8M Hub for Biotechnology in the Built Environment (HBBE). Activities in the next
 REF period will see growth in bio-construction, bio-fabrication and bio-inspired materials.

 GRT 5: Engineering for climate resilience. To help protect people and the economy it is
 crucial to enhance the resilience of infrastructure and the built environment. We have pioneered
 the production of climate information for engineering design, use of geomatic data to
 characterise engineering performance and monitor extreme events, and methods to assess
 climate risks to infrastructure systems. Leadership of flagship initiatives such as the £2.3M
 NERC OnePlanet DTP, £17M GCRF Water Security Hub, £9.7M UKCRIC National Green
 Infrastructure Facility (NGIF), and roles on the UK’s Climate Change Committee and
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change means we are uniquely placed to have a major
 impact in this GRT. Over the next REF period we will focus on the use of big data and AI in
 climate adaptation, as well as characterising the engineering performance of nature-based
 solutions.

 GRT 6: Sustaining the 10 billion. This overarching theme recognises that engineers must take
 a holistic approach to reconfiguring complex systems, such as cities, to support a projected
 global population of 10 billion within the 21st Century. Just as engineering at NU was founded in
 1871 to meet the challenges and opportunities of the 2nd Industrial Revolution, integration of our
 expertise in the engineering of digital, biological and physical systems makes us uniquely placed
 to contribute to delivery of the 4th IR.



 Group research profiles and future strategies

 Groups are the engines for research activity, they set their own research strategy, which is
 reviewed annually with the School Executive Board, complementing the individual Performance,
 Development and Review process and including EDI impact assessment. Directors of Discipline
 (DoDs) provide strategic leadership, facilitate coordination between groups and ensure, with the
 School Director of Research, that research is integrated across the School.




 Chemical Engineering (DoD Professor Biggs)

 The underlying philosophy of Chemical Engineering is to develop world-class, blue skies
 research and apply it to industrial challenges in the fine chemical, energy, pharmaceutical
 and food sectors. By drawing on a range of expertise, the discipline achieves innovation in
 materials and manufacturing to realise responsible consumption and production and clean
 growth.

 Advanced Materials and Electrochemical Engineering: Professor Siller (Head), 11
 academics, 14 RAs and 25 PhDs

 The group rationale is the development and application of new materials where both structural
 and functional performance are important, particularly using electrochemical methods. It is
 known for synthesis and modelling of nanostructured porous materials (the largest UK group



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working on aerogels), electrochemical processes in fuel production, hydrogen fuel cells and
 batteries, surface engineering and high-resolution characterisation.

 Building on the REF2014 strategy of improving sustainability and enhancing industrial
 competitiveness, the group was formed by merging two to create critical mass for work in two
 areas: energy and healthcare materials. The current grant portfolio contains significant funding:
 EPSRC NECEM grant (EP/R021503), Earth abundant metal air batteries (EP/R020744) and
 Next generation anion exchange membranes (EP/T00939); Faraday Institution funded Battery
 degradation and recycling and reuse start up grants; as well as other income from UK
 Government and industry. Work in healthcare materials has been strengthened by two
 appointments: Geoghegan (the Group’s second Cookson chair), working on soft matter
 surfaces, and Peeters working on biosensors.

 The group has had major involvement with Supergen on fuel cells and renewable energy
 (EP/H019596, EP/H019489, EP/K013319 and winner of institutional EDI award for commitment
 to diversity in engineering), and is a significant partner in the RENU CDT. Work on the
 decommissioning of lithium ion batteries has resulted in emerging impact through interactions
 with fire officers and local authorities. We work closely with industry to transfer technologies we
 develop to the marketplace e.g. spin out company, Dragonfly Insulation Ltd, to exploit our novel
 low cost aerogel product patent. The group plans to extend work on energy materials and smart
 materials, developing improved characterisation techniques and smart materials for wearable
 textiles. An increasing focus on the sustainable use and reuse of materials will be important over
 the next REF period in line with our GRTs.

 Materials, Concepts and Reaction Engineering (MatCoRE): Professor Metcalfe (Head), 5
 academics, 4 RAs and 10 PhDs

 This is a relatively small but distinctive group delivering innovative concepts, materials, devices
 and chemical engineering solutions which impact upon technological challenges facing mankind.
 MatCore’s interests lie in bridging the gap between material science and chemical and
 electrochemical reaction engineering. It studies the connection between structural and
 compositional properties of materials, and their physico-chemical properties, in order to discover,
 design and optimise materials for end applications. Application areas include catalysis,
 emissions control and energy conversion and storage; and all are of national and international
 strategic importance. The group excel at characterisation and have pioneered several cutting-
 edge techniques.

 The group was formed in August 2017 with the recruitment of Papaioannou, Hu and Pramana to
 work alongside Metcalfe, who holds an RAEng Chair in Emerging Technologies, in order to
 provide critical mass in an area of significant strength. The group has been very successful,
 notably being awarded EPSRC Programme Grant (EP/M01486), ERC Advanced Grant, and
 RAEng Research Fellowship (Mutch).

 The Matcore strategy is to seek problems, which others have regarded as being of extreme
 difficulty, and to supply transformative discipline-leading solutions. (i) Membranes: We are
 developing single crystal-hosted membranes for the optical and spectroscopic investigation of
 membrane transport processes. This is improving performance for difficult separations of
 permanent gases including oxygen, carbon dioxide, NOx and SOx. We are also designing high

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 temperature membranes that rely upon the co-permeation of species allowing one species to
 ‘pump’ the other to higher chemical potentials on separation such as humidity-driven carbon
 dioxide separation. This is leading to new processes where ambient sources of energy are used
 to drive carbon capture processes. (ii) Reactor and materials design: To overcome reaction
 equilibrium limitations and achieve close to 100% conversion whilst producing multiple pure
 products separately in a single unit operation (e.g. synthesis gas to dry hydrogen and pure
 carbon dioxide from a single reactor at high temperature). This allows us to operate much
 simplified processes for e.g. hydrogen production. There is considerable interest in this area
 and Newcastle holds relevant process patents. Metcalfe's RAEng chair in emerging
 technologies is supporting efforts to scale-up.
 (iii) Catalytic processes: We are bridging surface science and chemical engineering by
 understanding and controlling segregation in materials. This includes the development of highly
 active catalysts with ‘infinite’ lifetimes. We have used metal exsolution from the support to
 produce ‘anchored’ catalyst nanoparticles that cannot participate in sintering processes. We are
 now working on robust catalyst systems for methane reforming where a large number of
 potential applications exist, not least in hydrogen production. MatCore will continue its ground-
 breaking research to provide the underpinning chemical engineering to realise our GRTs.

 Process Intensification: Professor Harvey (Head), 12 academics, 5 RAs and 50 PhDs

 Process Intensification (PI) involves the development and application of new technologies and
 techniques for process industries that produce our chemicals, materials, pharmaceuticals,
 biochemicals and food. Specifically the techniques reduce the size of process technology by at
 least an order of magnitude. This significantly reduces capital and running costs, environmental
 impact and process risk.

 Arguably the largest PI research group in the world in terms of group size, it is world-leading in
 the development of rotating process technologies, heat pipe technologies, oscillatory baffled
 reactors and has significant research in process modelling, plasma processing, microfluidics/flow
 chemistry, and microfluidised beds. Key applications include biofuel processing, biomass
 processing more widely and CO2 sequestration. Harvey and Reay authored the main textbook
 on Process Intensification. The Group manages the “Process Intensification Network” which has
 run an international symposium every year since 1999.

 Since 2014 the group strategy has been to increase the range of technologies and applications
 of PI. For example, “Intensified by Design” an €11M EU project involving 22 partners focussed
 on the intensification of solids processing. This led to development of a Heat Pipe Screw Dryer
 for efficient drying of ceramic materials, a Taylor-Couette device for particle classification at
 Newcastle and a review paper in Chem. Eng. Process. (2017), which was the first journal paper
 to discuss the application of PI in solids handling processes. From 2015-2019, Harvey led the
 £5.6M EPSRC BBTC EngD Centre, which produced 45 graduates, all embedded in the
 bio/pharmaceutical industry.

 Targeted appointments were made over the REF period: Zivkovic (particle characterisation),
 Law (thermal design) and McDonough (additive layer manufacturing of reactors). Over the next
 5 years, the PI group will apply its skills to tackle new compact reactor research areas, such as
 plasma reactor engineering, 3D printing of chemical reactors, CO2 sequestration and wastewater
 treatment.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Civil and Geospatial Engineering (DoD Professor Kilsby)

 Civil and Geospatial Engineering has an outstanding record of research achievement, ranked
 2nd by Research Fortnight for Power in REF2014. Their vision is to develop new scientific
 understanding, engineering analysis and design, and apply it to enhance the future resilience of
 infrastructure networks, cities and river basins in the face of global change. With strong
 emphasis on sustainability, underpinned by powerful new data sensing, analytics and simulation
 they are setting the agenda in the digital transformation of the discipline.

 Environmental Engineering: Professor Curtis (Head), 13 academics, 19 RAs and 38 PhDs

 Environmental Engineering has excelled since the 1940s with a vibrant mix of fundamental
 engineering science (including engineering biology, novel iron chemistry and microbial
 electrochemistry), problem solving and policy (in areas such as mine-water pollution, anti-
 microbial resistance, solar disinfection and the circular economy). Its activities have garnered an
 enviable international reputation and network of collaborators in 26 countries. Since 2014,
 approximately 65% of its 400 publications have international co-authors. This international
 outlook has not been at the expense of the local community and industry where the group is
 firmly embedded. For example, there are collaborations with Newcastle Council on air pollution
 and an ongoing strategic partnership with Northumbrian Water.

 The group has broken new ground with a mixture of sustained funding, new blood, a highly
 multidisciplinary ethos and an actively managed culture of creativity (with 3 EPSRC “Bright
 Ideas” awards). Engineering biology is one example of strength, with over £7M research income
 and an interdisciplinary team ethos, from which we have developed new strategies for modelling
 and measuring engineered microbial communities through 13 orders of magnitude in scale from
 a single cell to a pilot wastewater treatment plant. A corollary of our pre-eminence in molecular
 microbial ecology is global leadership in determining the role of environmental engineering in
 emerging antimicrobial resistance. This has delivered headline making findings in studies from
 the arctic to the tropics, and a strategic advisory role for Graham with the World Health
 Organisation and leading NU activities on detecting COVID in wastewater. Sustained funding
 from industry has supported the development of impressive full-scale treatment systems for
 mine-water pollution and hydrocarbon polluted sediments and world leading contributions to the
 regulation of new pollutants.

 Since REF2014 we have attracted 4 academics and new research fellows who have
 strengthened the group with their diverse skills and research successes: e.g. developing clay
 minerals as a previously unsuspected source of disinfectants and catalysts, providing powerful
 insights into the real limits in our anticipated circular economy, searching out new frontiers in
 microbial modelling, developing strategies on the scourge of air pollution and generating new
 local and international collaborations.

 Our strategy is to extend this record of achievement by sustaining our vibrant and collegiate
 culture. The vision is to embrace every facet of environmental engineering from computer
 simulations to biology to clay chemistry to find responsible and real world solutions to protect the
 health of the environment and the people in it.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future Mobility: Professor Robinson (Head), 12 academics, 12 RAs and 10 PhDs

 The Future Mobility (FM) group was formed in 2017 to provide a coherent, interdisciplinary group
 for multi-modal passenger and freight transport by merging TORG, the Transport Operations
 Research Group, with NewRail, the Newcastle Centre for Railway Research.

 FM brings together complementary expertise to address the challenge of how technology can
 transform transport systems of the future whilst tackling the key challenge of decarbonisation
 and putting the user at the heart of future transport systems. We are working with alternative
 propulsion systems for decarbonisation purposes, one of which is hydrogen but there are others,
 electrification of rail and new traction sources. We are researching how we can influence
 travellers to make more sustainable choices. To this end, since REF 2014 we have made 2 key
 appointments in behaviour and environment so that we can research the impact of technologies
 on individuals and their environment. For example, with UKRI support (ES/5006885/1) we are
 exploring the role autonomous electric vehicles and shared mobility services have on travel
 behaviour, user acceptance and the environment.

 FM is strong on consumers and technological competencies and has an extensive multi-modal,
 multi-disciplinary research portfolio. There is a wide range of expertise in interconnected areas
 of technology, behaviour, electrification of transport freight logistics, safety and security. It is
 strongly linked to other Engineering groups (e.g. Marine Technology, Design Manufacture and
 Materials) and University centres such as the National Innovation Centre for Data, National
 innovation Centre for Ageing, CESI, UKRRIN and UKCRIC. The UKRRIN contract provides
 £10M research funding to investigate rail vehicle innovations.

 FM has strong links with policy, consumer behaviour, safety, social acceptance, and standards
 of transport that lead to research advances and impact. Over the coming years, the group will
 focus on autonomous vehicles, decarbonisation, freight, logistics, and mobility as a service. This
 will capitalise on the national agenda and the UK’s future of mobility grand challenge.

 Geospatial Engineering: Professor Clarke (Head), 13 academics, 13 RAs and 19 PhDs

 The group conducts research across the spectrum of geospatial engineering, from underpinning
 basic physical/information science through to engineering applications. It encompasses three
 intertwined strands: (i) Geodesy: precise static and kinematic GPS/GNSS positioning, satellite
 laser ranging and orbital modelling, reference frames, Earth’s changing gravity field, surface
 mass loading modelling, inland/ocean altimetric remote sensing, InSAR/GB-SAR deformation
 monitoring and precision agriculture; (ii) Earth Observation (“NEO-Lab”): multi-temporal, multi-
 modal modelling/monitoring, including terrestrial/airborne laser scanning, mobile mapping,
 InSAR/GB-SAR, photogrammetry, optical remote sensing, computer vision, early warning
 systems; and (iii) Geospatial Data Analytics and Modelling: spatial analytics, visualisation,
 heterogeneous sensor networks, geospatial data fusion, integration and development of
 geospatial information and decision support systems.

 We excel in the geodetic measurement of cryospheric change and other geohazards (multiple
 NERC and ESA grants), the use of laser scanning and other remote sensing techniques for
 urban and heritage monitoring, flood prevention and the development and use of multi-sensor
 networks (e.g. leadership of the UKCRIC Urban Observatories programme). Our leadership in


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 these areas has been recognised by the award of the EPSRC CDT in Geospatial Systems (PI:
 Mills) which forms the basis of many of our multidisciplinary collaborations.

 Our research vision builds on our internationally leading status (e.g. International GNSS Service
 and NERC COMET+ operations) in our three themes. We will advance geodetic science using
 forthcoming satellite missions and apply this to regional- and local-scale engineering responses
 to geohazards. We will increase the fusion of data from satellite, mobile terrestrial, airborne
 (including UAV) and seagoing robotic sensors to provide the geospatial input needed to address
 geohazards and engineering-societal-environmental problems. Through our geospatial CDT we
 will train a new generation of students able to design and develop solutions for the capture,
 management, analysis and modelling of geospatial data that enable a wider range of complex
 engineering-societal-environmental problems to be addressed in a systems-based manner. We
 will achieve this by developing the next generation of ‘big data’ geospatial data management
 systems.

 Geotechnics and Structures: Professor Utili (Head), 14 academics, 5RAs and 12 PhDs

 The group combines the traditional disciplines of Structural and Geotechnical Engineering to
 work on the grand challenge themes of sustainability in construction and climate change effects
 in civil engineering. A particular strength is developing resilient infrastructure systems under
 extreme conditions and natural hazards (e.g. landslides, earthquakes, flooding, climate change).
 The group leads (or has led) the flagship ACHILLES Programme Grant (£4.9M, EP/R034575),
 iSMART (£2.5M, EP/K027050/1), and Understanding transient response to climate change in
 coupled hydro-eco-geomorphic landscapes (NERC). We are/have been significant partners in
 CACTUS (£1.8M, EP/R005834), HERCULES (€2M, EU H2020 RISE), and Realtime
 assessments of wind related damage to electricity infrastructure (NERC).

 This work is complemented by research at the material scale, looking at long-term degradation
 processes (DURACOMP, £1.4M EP/K026925/1), the development of novel sustainable cement
 (Engineering Microbial-Induced Carbonate Precipitation via Meso-Scale Simulations £0.6M,
 EP/S013997/1), and transforming soils through synthetic biology (Computational colloids
 P/N005791/1 & Thinking soils £0.6M EP/R003629/1). Our research has also necessitated the
 development of multi-scale numerical tools for application to the landslides, infrastructure
 networks and novel construction materials embedded in these programmes. Our work on
 deterioration and performance of materials and infrastructure systems has helped shape
 practice and European Standards (CEN248 & CEN250 for technical textiles).

 There is a distinctive focus on full-scale observation, experimentation and demonstration through
 continued leadership of the BIONICS full-scale embankment test facility, construction of the Key
 (a novel sustainable fabric structure; newcastlehelix.com/about/the-key) and joint leadership of
 £9.7M UKCRIC National Green Infrastructure Facility and £8M UKCRIC Urban Observatory.

 Following staff departures, our strategy has been to recruit new leadership (Utili) as well as
 ECRs and research fellows that support our broad strategy and take us into new and exciting
 directions: Bruno (hydromechanical modelling of geo-materials); Dunn (catastrophe modelling of
 infrastructure networks); Masoero (chemo-mechanics of porous materials); Mofidi (bio-based
 composites & rehabilitation); Nadimi (urban geothermal heat), and Fellows: Milledge (landslides



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assessment and mitigation); Theodoridou (biological processes for structural repair) and Stirling
 (climate-vegetation-soil interactions).

 The future strategy is to grow further our work on sustainable, resilient infrastructure systems
 with an increased focus on integration of digital technologies, and to contribute to the School’s
 GRTs by pioneering biotechnology for the built environment, understanding long-term
 interactions between the natural and built environments in a changing climate, and
 decarbonising heating and cooling using geothermal energy.




 Water: Dr Parkin (Head), 16.4 academics, 19 RAs and 14 PhDs

 Water research at Newcastle University marked its 70th anniversary in January 2020. The Water
 Group is internationally renowned for its work on (i) Blue-Green Cities and Resilient
 Infrastructure; (ii) Catchment and Water Management (e.g. Advise Nile Basin Initiative, our
 SHETRAN hydrological model used to develop water management plans in >100 catchments
 worldwide especially in India, South America and Africa); (iii) Climate Impacts and Adaptation;
 (iv) Flood Risk Management.

 Since 2014, the group has reinforced its internationally leading position. NU holds (as PI) 20%
 of all EPSRC university research classified by sector as ‘water’, (£33.9M, not including grants on
 which we are CoIs), more than any other UK institution (from grants on web: April 2019). The
 group leads multiple flagship programmes including the £9.7M UKCRIC National Green
 Infrastructure Facility, the £7M NERC ONE Planet DTP, and the £18M GCRF Water Security
 and Sustainable Development Hub. The group is also a partner in other major programmes
 including the EPSRC Water Infrastructure and Resilience CDT, the Twenty65 Water Grand
 Challenge programme, the GCRF Living Deltas Hub, and the ITRC and MISTRAL Infrastructure
 Programme Grants. The group also has a robust NERC and EU funding record.

 Following two retirements (O’Connell, Bathurst) and one death (Kutija) our recruitment strategy
 has been to recruit new academics in exciting emerging research areas, especially with
 expertise in AI and big data analytics. This has been bolstered by a £1M investment in
 additional staff from the University’s Research Innovation Fund in recognition of the group’s
 sustained successes.

 Four priority challenges for the coming years that build on recent grant successes and new
 appointments are: (i) Big data and digitisation, supported by NERC Flood-PREPARED
 (NE/P017134/1), Urban Observatory, Dawson as Turing Research Fellow, Parkin and Quinn’s
 innovation in citizen science in UK and Ethiopia, and appointment of Smith as Lecturer in Data-
 Centric Civil Engineering. (ii) Delivering SDG6 and global water security, supported by
 substantial success in GCRF, reflecting the group’s international links and profile, and live
 projects in all continents apart from Antarctica, funded by a range of UKRI, DFID and GCRF
 successes including EPSRC urban green Dams (EP/S005862/1), NERC Resilience to pluvial
 floods (NE/S005994/1), NERC Indonesia Rainfall (NE/S003274/1) as well as the GCRF Water
 Security Hub which we lead. Work in this area is enhanced by new academic appointments
 Walker and Lewis (iii) Delivering engineering design standards through scientific understanding
 of green infrastructure and nature-based solutions supported by unique NGIF laboratory and

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointments of Hewett and Walsh. (iv) Climate Ready Cities supported by One Planet DTP,
 EPSRC Blue-Green Cities (EP/K013661/1) and appointment of Fellows Forsythe and Guerreiro.




 Electrical and Electronic Engineering: DoD Professor Pickert

 EEE expertise ranges from high power applications such as electric propulsion for aircraft to
 ultra-low power applications such as implementing microsystems into the brain. It is known for its
 impact generating inter-disciplinary research in information technology, human health, energy
 systems and sustainability. They lead several major Centres in the area, including EPSRC CDT
 in Sustainable Electric Propulsion, EPSRC National Centre for Energy System Integration and
 the Dyson Research Centre.

 Electrical Power: Dr Atkinson (Head), 16 academics, 37 RAs and 52 PhDs

 Electrical power is key to a more electrified world driven by global environmental, political and
 technical challenges. The group is one of the strongest power groups in the UK and is renowned
 for its research impact. It leads the agenda on:
    (i)   Electric Drives, especially for transport applications
   (ii)   Energy Storage, especially on recycling
  (iii)   Smart Distribution Grids, especially on buildings offering services to the grid

 In REF2014, the strategy of EP was to grow in two key areas: electric drives/motors and
 energy/smart grids whilst maintaining the success of others. We have recruited three new
 Lecturers, one in Electric Drives and two in Energy/Smart Grids who have helped to grow activity
 significantly in both areas. Grants, each of value in excess of £750K, in these areas include:

 Electric drives/motors:
    • Hoganas Technical Centre (from 2014, £180K per year)
    • EPSRC Future Electrical Machines Manufacturing Hub (2019, EP/S018034, £10.4M)
    • Goodrich Actuation System: Flap Actuation System (2019, £792K)
    • EPSRC CDT in Sustainable Electric Propulsion (2019, EP/S024069/1, £5.4M)

 Energy/smart grids:
    • EPSRC CESI- Centre for Energy Systems Integration (2016, WP/P001173, £5.4M)
    • Faraday Institution Recycling of Lithium Ion Batteries (2017, £7M)
    • EPSRC The Active Building Centre (2018, EP/S016627/1, £35M)
    • Innovate UK E4Futures V2G (2018, £9.8M)
    • EPSRC Supergen Energy Networks Hub (2018, EP/S00078X/1, £3.8M)
    • Goodrich Actuation System: Flap Actuation System (2019, £792K)

 EP has been awarded 147 research projects funded by the EU, UKRI or directly from industry
 over the REF period.

 Although a number of senior research staff have left since 2014, the group has recruited new
 academics and grown in size from 13 to 15 while the number of research associates has more

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 than doubled to 35. We will grow our leadership in power-related electrification and our goal is
 to lead the electric revolution in the areas of electric drives/motors and energy/smart-grids. With
 its current staff, EP has the critical mass to continue to lead in electric drives/motors and
 energy/smart-grids but also to contribute to new emerging areas such as electrification of
 biomedical devices and superconductivity. Our plans are to advance in the following four areas:

   (i)   Electric drives from milli watts to mega watts
  (ii)   Battery safety research & training
 (iii)   Electric transportation
 (iv)    Electrical energy use

 These ambitions are greatly assisted by NU’s leadership of the £30M Driving the Electric
 Revolution consortium which will see the creation of four industrialisation centres to enable
 faster collaborative research and development of electric machines for cars, planes and ships.
 The group is appointing a new Professor of Electric Drives to lead DER NE Industrialisation
 Centre. We are extending our research facilities as part of the Stephenson development on
 campus, and our impact through innovation centres e.g. the InTEGRel partnership with Northern
 Gas Networks and DER.

 Emerging Technology and Materials: Dr Healy (Head), 10 academics, 9 RAs and 19 PhDs

 ETM has an all-encompassing research programme with an atoms-to-applications philosophy.
 Its research covers all aspects of the technology development cycle from computational
 materials discovery, through materials development and characterisation, to optical and
 electrical devices. It has agenda defining research in:

     •   Semiconductor device technologies for extreme environments, e.g. SiC devices.
     •   Quantum mechanical in-silico materials discovery; we are home to the AimPro density
         functional theory program, used by hundreds of groups across the world.
     •   Materials development; in particular, new energy, low-dimensional and photonics
         materials.
     •   Bioelectronic devices; the development of implantable electronics devices used for in-
         vivo neural control.

 As part of a University strategy to re-establish a Department of Physics, there have been 5
 appointments in the ETM group since REF2014. This has brought expertise in material's
 discovery, optical devices and device physics, which complement existing semiconductor
 physics/device expertise. This has enhanced the scope and reach of ETM with fundamental
 research translating directly into engineering applications e.g. defect studies at the quantum
 mechanical level have explained hidden optical transitions in diamond, Fe+ contamination of
 silicon components, and the effects of morphology in SiC devices.

 The nature of ETM gives it the ability to push the boundaries of engineering at a fundamental
 level, while simultaneously being multidisciplinary. Key collaborative activities include:

     •   CANDO (NS/A000026/1, £10M). A multi-site, cross-disciplinary project to develop a
         cortical implant for optogenetic neural control.
     •   TeamTao, the only UK team to reach the grand final of the Ocean XPRIZE, winning the
         Moonshot (innovation) Prize.
     •   EPSRC CDT in Diamond Science and Technology.
     •   EPSRC CDT in Sustainable Electric Propulsion.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In the future the group is uniquely placed to bridge fundamental research in physics with
 electrical engineering innovation in optoelectronics and healthcare.

 Intelligent Sensing and Communications: Dr Tsimenedis (Head), 11 academics, 10 RAs
 and 26 PhDs

 ISC conducts world-leading research and delivers impact across a spectrum of communications
 and digital signal processing from underpinning theories through to applications. Its research
 comprises two interconnected strands: 1) Intelligent Sensing for limb prosthetics, biometrics,
 ultrasound imaging and non-destructive testing (NDT) and; 2) Communications, including
 wireless and underwater acoustics.

 In REF2014, the group strategy was to invest in biomedical engineering and underwater
 communications, whilst maintaining success in other areas of communication. With support from
 Newcastle University’s Research Investment Fund (£0.75M) and two appointments in biomedical
 engineering (Nazarpour and Dyson) there has been significant growth in this area, which is now
 supported by funding of £2.8M from EPSRC and NIHR, including an EPSRC Healthcare
 Technology Challenge Award of £1.28M (EP/R004242/1). Research in wireless and underwater
 communications received EPSRC and EU funding of £2.15M, including the EPSRC project
 USMART to develop smart dust for large scale underwater wireless sensing (£1.58M FEC,
 EP/P017975/1). NDT research has attracted EPSRC and EU funding of £1.95M, including the
 EPSRC project NEWTON to develop novel sensing networks for intelligent monitoring (£1.47M
 FEC, EP/J012343/1). At the time of submission, the value of active EPSRC grants is £5.55M.

 In the next few years, ISC will broaden its industrial base and expand into emerging areas of
 wireless communications for 6G and beyond, machine learning and artificial intelligence, internet
 of things, security and surveillance, Agritech, bioelectronics medicine and healthcare.

 Microsystems: Professor Yakovlev (Head), 6 academics, 4 RAs and 20 PhDs

 Microsystems is world leading in asynchronous and low power circuits and systems and is highly
 successful at translational research in formal design and verification methods. Following the
 REF2014 strategy, the group has expanded into (i) Power modulated computing: Energy-driven,
 real-power computing for future autonomous electronics in its trillions of devices. (ii) Biomedical
 more than Moore: Combining industrially fabbed MEMS and CMOS architectures into advanced
 implantable microsystems for neuroprosthetics and electroceuticals. (iii) Design productivity:
 Analogue-mixed signal design automation and asynchronous-analogue co-design for complex
 electronics to improve design productivity.

 It contributes to a large portfolio of grants, including PRiME (EPSRC £5.6M), POETS (EPSRC
 £5M), OptoNeuro (FP7 €2.1M), CANDO (Wellcome £10M), and has expanded its expertise with
 a new Lecturer bringing opportunities in computing with functional materials (photonics, meta-
 materials), MEMS/More than Moore, Energy modulated computing and 5G comms.
 Microsystems will continue to exploit its strong links with industry, which have generated
 considerable impact over the REF period e.g. with Dialog, Impact Case Study 1.

 The strategy is (i) to build on its leadership in design methods and tools for energy-constrained
 and power-efficient electronics (Impact Case Study 1) through a wider range of industrial
 applications involving analogue, digital and mixed-signal systems and radically new forms of

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 computing, involving meta-materials and electromagnetic waves; and (ii) to establish
 international leadership in developing system design platforms for explainable artificial
 intelligence with on-site real-time and real-power learning capabilities, thereby enabling routes
 towards applications in biomedical engineering (e.g. bionic eye, on-site disease diagnostics) and
 internet of things (e.g. self-power environmental monitoring and industrial predictive
 maintenance).

 Mechanical and Marine Engineering: DoD Dr Palacin

 The research strategy of Mechanical and Marine Engineering is to acquire fundamental
 knowledge and translate it into applied interventions, together with our partners, to deliver net
 zero road, rail and marine transportation systems, and bioengineering healthcare systems.
 Central to our approach is the interdisciplinary nature of engineering creativity, reflected in the
 range of expertise of our teams and anchored in design principles. Following on from the
 REF2014 strategy of developing sustainability research and supporting industrial
 competitiveness we have focussed on industrial design (particularly in the transport sector) and
 healthcare research.

 Bioengineering: Professor Joyce (Head), 8 academics, 2 RAs and 26 PhDs

 Bioengineering has two main themes: medical devices and their regulation, and biomaterials.
 Medical device research is focussed on the development and assessment of new devices for
 knee, hip and spinal implants, including biotribology and the adverse effects of wear debris;
 previous work on developing new shoulder implants has had significant impact (Impact Case
 Study 3). Research has informed national and international policy development on the regulation
 of hip implants and juvenile scoliosis spinal implants. Biomaterials research covers the
 development of novel bulk biomaterials for cancer treatment, retinal and musculoskeletal
 applications; and surface functionalisation using peptides and proteins to enhance the
 performance of medical devices. Research is clinically informed by partners from Newcastle’s
 Medical School and the wider clinical community and involves significant collaboration with
 industry (DePuy-Synthes; Zimmer-Biomet, Invibio).

 The strategy is to undertake fundamental research into new materials and devices, whilst
 working with interdisciplinary teams to address Healthcare challenges. New biomaterials for the
 treatment of osteoporosis is an emerging focus, with research funded by Horizon 2020
 (GIOTTO: Active aGeIng and Osteoporosis, The next challenge for smarT nanobiOmaterials and
 3D Technologies), and research on medical devices will address surface coating of orthopaedic
 implants through a new award from Orthpaedic Research UK in collaboration with Zimmer-
 Biomet.

 Building larger interdisciplinary teams to tackle healthcare device reliability will be pursued
 through existing external collaborations and two NUCoREs: Regulatory Science (established in
 2019, Joyce co-lead) and Biomedical Engineering (in planning). We are appointing a new
 Professor in Bioengineering to provide leadership. Close collaboration with the Design,
 Manufacture and Materials Group will continue blending new materials synthesis techniques with
 new materials processing techniques in the development of novel medical devices.

 Design Manufacture and Materials: Professor Dalgarno (Head), 10 academics, 9 RAs and
 26 PhDs




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DMM focusses on (i) understanding material microstructures and their mechanical properties
 arising from their manufacture and optimising them for engineering application, and (ii)
 developing new manufacturing processes and associated best practices for design for
 manufacture. Materials modelling, additive manufacture and biofabrication and precision
 machining are key research topics, and the application focus for the group is primarily gears and
 power transmission, and medical devices and tissue engineering (in collaboration with the
 Bioengineering Group).

 Our funded research portfolio includes the EPSRC Centre for Innovative Manufacture in Medical
 Devices; the Arthritis Research UK Tissue Engineering Centre, the EPSRC CDT in Additive
 Manufacture; the Innovate UK Materials, Manufacturing and Oils Technologies for High Power
 Gearbox Systems programme. Collaboration is an important element of all of these flagship
 national programmes, and the group collaborates widely with companies ranging in size from
 SMEs to multinationals, and with Universities across the UK and internationally.

 The group strategy has two strands: (a) to grow collaboration with industry where we have
 established and distinctive expertise (e.g. large scale facilities in our UKRRIN laboratories), and
 (b) to support basic research into understanding and developing new materials, design
 approaches and manufacturing processes in order to underpin future industrial collaboration e.g.
 design of electric vehicle transmission systems through an Advanced Propulsion Centre project.

 The strategy for the next REF period is to enhance the group’s reputation as an international
 centre for applied research in design, manufacture and materials in the areas of biofabrication
 and mechanical power transmission. We will do this by expanding the infrastructure (through the
 new Stephenson Building and new dedicated facility at Walker for large scale research into
 gears and power transmission), continuing to publish discipline leading papers, maximising
 impact through industrial engagement, and engaging in national and international collaborative
 research programmes.

 Fluid Dynamics and Thermal Systems: Professor Chakraborty (Head), 5 academics, 15
 RAs and 29 PhDs

 The group is renowned for its leading research in:
   (i)  Advanced Computational Fluid Dynamics simulations of turbulent reacting flows with
        direct relevance to the utilisation of energy resources, development of reliable fire and
        explosion safety measures and reduction of environmental impact of combustion
        processes.
  (ii)  CFD analysis of heat transfer involving complex non-Newtonian fluids with direct
        applications to chemical processing, nuclear and cosmetic industries.
 (iii)  Applied thermodynamic investigations related to energy generation, storage and
        refrigeration with direct relevance to climate change, energy security and sustainable
        energy solutions.
 (iv)   Heat and mass transfer in fuel cells and lithium-ion batteries.

 Since 2014, the group has developed these areas in line with the University’s ‘Sustainability’
 theme and now the School’s GRTs. The group has strategically focussed on collaboration with
 internationally renowned colleagues from leading UK and international organisations, and has
 attracted funding from Newton (e.g. NRCP 1516/ 4/67), UK-Institutional Link British Council (e.g.
 IL4279134267) and UKRI. This includes strategically important projects utilising high
 performance computing (e.g., EP/K025163/1 and EP/V003534/1 from EPSRC) and networks

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such as UK Consortium on Turbulent Reacting Flows (EP/R029369); UKRI Thermal Energy
 Challenge Network (EP/P005667/2); EPSRC network for hydrogen-fuelled transportation
 (Network-H2) (EP/S032134/1)); EPSRC CCSInSupply (EP/N024567/2).

 Three new appointments in the REF period have enhanced the group’s expertise in combustion,
 CFD modelling and thermal engineering. The future strategy lies in reinforcing fundamental
 research capabilities in turbulent flow analysis in the areas of turbulent reacting flows, heat
 transfer and wall-bounded flows, and applying the physical insights obtained from fundamental
 research to industrial applications. The group will grow experimental combustion research
 especially in the areas of hydrogen and biofuel combustion in order to complement the current
 strength in numerical modelling.

 Marine, Offshore and Subsea Technology: Dr Murphy (Head), 16 academics, 5 RAs and 32
 PhDs

 MOST researchers cover a diverse range of expertise focussed on global challenges associated
 with sustainability in marine and offshore environments. Key strategies, since REF2014, have
 been to create a centre of excellence in marine propulsion, established with investments of £3M
 at the Port of Blyth, and to recruit world-leading staff to build on our strengths: Lloyds Register
 Professor of Offshore Engineering (Hu), Professor in Marine Hydrodynamics (Liu) and Lecturers
 in Marine Structures, Marine Economics, Marine Engineering & Ship Design. The marine
 propulsion lab incorporates the upgraded Emerson Cavitation Tunnel, a flume for artificially
 aging coatings for performance assessment and slime farm (growing fouling under controlled
 conditions), funded by Akzo-Nobel (£1M), and we have a research vessel. Research on
 mitigating environmental interactions and impacts of marine structures on the environment
 includes:
     • Performance of protective coatings and bio-fouling (collaborating with marine biologists),
         supported by grants: Underwater radiated Noise EU SONIC (€4M) and SEAFRONT
         (€11M).
     • Ship propulsion, energy management and structural performance modelling and
         monitoring, supported by projects and equipment investments from Royston (£1.5M,
         including KTPs, Innovate UK and direct industry funding); Impact Case Study 6.
     • RNLI research for future design of search and rescue craft (£600K); EPSRC MUltiphase
         Flow-induced Fluid-flexible structure InteractioN in Subsea applications (MUFFINS,
         EP/P0331418/1, £575K).
     • Research with the US ONR for structural performance of Naval vessels, including four
         PhDs (£500K) and the development of structural design code now incorporated into
         commercial ship design software, Maestro Marine.

 The group has a significant body of EPSRC, EU and other funding to support marine transport’s
 decarbonisation towards Net Zero and reduce other harmful airborne pollutants. This includes
 working with the UK DfT and others supported by funding from EPSRC Shipping in Changing
 Climates (EP/K039253, £3.5M), EPSRC Network Plus, EU Clean Inland Shipping (€8M), EU
 SusTunTech (€3M). The work has developed to include all parts of the marine infrastructure
 including Smart Ports in projects continuing beyond the assessment period. The forward
 strategy revolves around the imperative for net zero carbon energy, one of our GRTs, with key
 aims of reducing emissions from marine transport, exploiting the ocean for production of
 renewable energy and embedding digital, data and autonomous systems into maritime systems.

 2. People



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 People Strategy
 Our people strategy is simple: to recruit outstanding colleagues in fair and inclusive processes,
 place them in an excellent, inclusive and supportive environment, and thereby encourage the
 highest standards within their discipline. Our people form the disciplinary ‘bedrock’ for our
 excellence and the foundation for our interdisciplinary success. The strategy drives our EDI-
 informed appointments process: building capacity in emerging research areas and maintaining
 excellence in our existing strengths. Female professors have increased from 7.8 to 12.5% of our
 staff in the last four years.

 The group is the primary “home” for colleagues and an excellent environment is created through
 the coordinated actions and policies of the groups, disciplines and School’s Global Research
 Themes.

 Academic Appointments
 We have recruited 73 lecturers, 17 SLs, 9 readers and 14 professors and invested in 10 ECR
 fellowships (5 NU Research Fellows and 5 NUAcTs) in this REF period. The increase in
 academics (from 133 in 2014 to 151 in 2020) has helped increase time for research and
 facilitated a more effective sabbatical policy. This has been accompanied by an increase in
 BAME colleagues from 11% to 22% of our total.

 Training & Development
 Career development is critical for all colleagues. However, we pay particular attention to our new
 lecturers and fellows. We use a blend of careful workload management, mentoring, targeted
 training and “start-up” packages, with coaching along the first steps as independent researchers.
 Mentoring by RAEng Chairs Metcalfe and Krasnogor led to an RAEng Fellowship for Mutch and
 we have a track record of recruiting promising ECRs and transforming them into world leaders
 (e.g. Fowler and Blythe).

 There are multiple avenues and opportunities for development, both formal and informal, offered
 by the University and the School.

 Formal processes include a thorough implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, the Career Pathways Framework Programme and the
 Performance and Development Review (PDR) process. The continuous PDR process includes
 an annual review meeting to reflect on the previous year, to agree objectives for the coming 12
 months and to ensure that everyone has access to the resources and opportunities they need to
 succeed.

 Chief amongst those resources is the Organisational Development Team. There are courses for
 every career stage ranging from generic (e.g. time-management) development, to specific
 aspects of research (e.g. intellectual property), or career progression (e.g. networking and
 collaboration). First time grant winners can benefit from a PI Development Programme. All new
 lecturers undertake the Certificate in Advanced Studies in Academic Practice, which covers
 research, teaching and management. More experienced academic staff are prepared for
 leadership roles by the Academic Leadership Programme, that develops high level leadership,
 strategy and team management skills. 64% of staff (half Female) have taken advantage of such
 opportunities.

 Obtaining funding is often an art so our specialist Faculty Research Funding Development Team
 deliver support around this; including training for grant writing and management for new
 appointees, and as a refresher for established colleagues. Particular help is offered to applicants

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for fellowships or large grants with internal reviews and mock panels. New starters are guided
 through their “New Investigator” applications, and benefit from similar processes. 100% new and
 60% existing colleagues have used these facilities in the REF period with a 15% increase in
 grant applications and successes.

 In addition, the school offers a comprehensive induction, mentoring and events programme (e.g.
 ECR showcasing events). We have good links with all Engineering Professional Institutions (e.g.
 to assist with staff gaining CEng status) and are members of key engineering networks (e.g.
 WES, EPC, etc.). Groups offer a less formal, but more frequent framework for support and
 development. These small collegiate teams support each other on the “nitty-gritty” of academic
 life from informal peer review, individual and team mentoring, and learning from inevitable
 disappointments.

 Workload
 Time, not money, is our most important resource. The School contribution model records the
 activities of all colleagues under the headings of Teaching, Research, Management and Other.
 The model draws heavily on the Athena Forum report of 2018 on workload allocation models
 and provides a profile of all contributions as well as employment position and special
 circumstances. Full-time equivalent values are shown next to actual values for part-time
 colleagues to ensure appropriate planning and consideration. The profiles are used to support
 individual’s career plans, whilst maintaining a work-life balance, and to help managers allocate
 and balance workloads, review achievements, and plan strategically and inclusively. We
 routinely reduce the FTE for staff approaching retirement to enable a managed transition.

 Promotions
 The School academic and research promotions process ensures that all those eligible are
 considered by the Head of School, not just those who put themselves forward.

 Colleagues are developed and prepared for promotion through the PDR process, mentorship
 and training schemes (e.g. leadership development) enhanced by local mentoring and coaching
 systems in the School. Over the REF period, 5 colleagues were promoted to Chair, 14 to
 Reader, 25 to SL and 31 to Lecturer G. The success rate for applications, regardless of gender,
 is 61% over all grades.

 Rewards
 We recognise significant contributions of colleagues through the University rewards scheme
 (promotions, accelerated increments and bonuses). Additionally, we have made 44 prize
 payments to individuals or teams since REF 2014 for things including the promotion of gender
 diversity in engineering, improvements in sustainability and exceptional student support. We
 coordinate nominations to WES or Professional Institution recognition schemes and oversee
 submissions to informal initiatives, which may lead to public acknowledgement. Colleagues’
 achievements and resulting good practice or learning are shared via regular newsletters and at
 School meetings.

 Sabbatical policy
 Academic colleagues are eligible for one semester of sabbatical leave every six semesters.
 Engineering has actively promoted this to good effect, reviewing and supporting sabbatical plans
 to maximise impact on research and minimising impact on group colleagues who cover other
 areas of work during this time, utilising our contribution model to enable this.

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Technical Support Teams
 Technical Support was reorganised in 2017 and is managed by the Faculty. It encompasses
 around 150 colleagues, with a broad skill base, and has an effective reporting structure to
 School and Faculty. Technical teams work in collaboration with academics but are line managed
 and mentored by a member of professional staff. Technicians across the University have formed
 NUTechNet, an internal network of technicians “by technicians for technicians” which arranges
 activities from regular events to task and finish groups on topics of interest. NUTechNet provided
 the impetus for NU to host the 2020 Technician Partnership Conference, a joint venture with the
 National Technician Development Centre and the N8 group of Northern Universities.

 As part of our commitment to development, we have appointed a Faculty Technical Trainee and
 Training Co-ordinator who manages a training, development, and apprenticeship programme,
 linking to professional registration, where appropriate.

 EDI in the School
 We believe that embedding EDI values in the School is both a moral imperative and a pre-
 requisite for excellence. Our GRTs encourage everyone, and all engineering disciplines, to work
 together. It is essential that colleagues have equal and inclusive access to decision making,
 development and opportunity and that we can attract and retain exceptional people. We have
 therefore placed EDI at the heart of the new School’s vision and put in place robust procedures
 to underpin our long term plans.

 % Female T&R colleagues in the School of Engineering

                   31-Jul-     31-Jul-                  31-Jul-     01-Feb-
                                          31-Jul-19
                     17          18                       20           21
  All colleagues   16.9%       18.2%        18.4%       17.1%        18.0%
  Professors        7.8%        8.7%        13.0%       12.5%        12.5%

 % BAME T&R colleagues in the School of Engineering

                    31-Jul-     31-Jul-     31-Jul-     31-Jul-     01-Feb-
                      17          18          19          20           21
  British only       6.4%        6.7%        8.4%       12.9%        11.1%
  All colleagues    10.8%       21.4%       19.0%       21.1%        22.0%



 EDI strategy and progress is overseen by a diverse committee that includes senior leadership
 (Chair, Deputy Head of School), PGRs and RAs, CDT leaders and NUAcT representatives, who
 are all committed to be beacons of EDI excellence. Professor Geoghegan, the School Athena
 Swan Champion, Chairs the Athena Swan SAT that reports to the EDI committee. The School
 has Athena Swan bronze and will apply for silver in 2023. EDI is a standing item on the School
 Executive agenda and issues from debate feed directly into the appropriate Faculty and
 University committees. The Faculty EDI champions in disability and race are both members of
 the School, as is the Faculty Deputy Director of EDI. We work closely with our student union
 societies and ensure we understand and support their initiatives and plans.

 We embed EDI in all our processes, visibly championing diversity and inclusivity by wearing
 rainbow lanyards and other badges of support, and other initiatives like:




                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   As a minimum, all members of Executive Board, EDI committees and REF decision
        makers have completed EDI training, all recruitment panels complete unconscious bias
        training, and all staff are introduced to EDI as part of their induction.
    •   The School engaged the support of Diversity by Design to improve its recruitment
        process. The new approach better reflects the importance of dissemination of job
        adverts, gender neutral language in adverts, commitment (signposting) to EDI,
        reasonable application deadlines, diverse selection and interview panels, and recruitment
        based upon competencies.
    •   Any policy or procedural change is accompanied by an EDI impact assessment.
    •   School priorities in 2020, which directly inform individual PDR objectives, included ‘to
        treat everyone with dignity and respect in accordance with University EDI principles’.
    •   Images and text for webpages or materials are selected to give a true sense of the
        School while demonstrating and enabling inclusivity.
    •   Providing financial and other support to peer support networks in the School, including
        the EDI award winning NU Women in Engineering group and the PGR group.
    •   Maximising access to School life by holding meetings in core times (9.30am to 3pm) and
        considering school holidays.
    •   Enabling flexible and part-time working; for instance, colleagues with caring
        responsibilities after maternity.
    •   Recognising key dates in the calendar with events, information and/or media content and
        signposting (Pride, Black History Month, World Engineering Day, International Women’s
        Day, etc)
    •   Introducing a scheme to fund maternity leave for PGR students when sponsors don’t
        provide this.
    •   “Decolonising” not just our teaching but also our research, and in particular equitable
        partnerships for research collaboration. Through leadership of the Water Security and
        Sustainable Development Hub we are considering best practice in safeguarding,
        decolonisation, and research inclusion into the University’s Global Challenges Academy
        and School. This has already led to a change in University financial policy for paying
        developing world partners.
    •   Focussing on addressing the BAME achievement gap (which is notable in engineering as
        a discipline) through interactions with staff role models.

 Our staff are increasingly recognised as EDI advocates, for example Dawson was invited to
 speak at the RAEng event on Engineering Change in March 2021.

 Postgraduate Research (PGR) Students
 An outstanding cadre of doctoral researchers is central to our research vision and culture. We
 have graduated over 600 research students in this REF period. We have attracted large
 numbers of students through CDTs as well as with international scholarships and industrial
 sponsorships. This ability to attract high quality students attests to our international reputation in
 PGR supervision and training.

 PGR Mentoring and Management
 We see our PGRs as future leaders in research, industry and policy. Accordingly we place a
 strong emphasis on training, mentoring and management to ensure they meet both research
 and wider objectives.

 Recruitment and coordination of research students are managed by the School Postgraduate
 Studies Director working closely with Faculty on strategic issues like quality and student
 experience. We believe a good relationship between student and supervisory team is crucial to
 success. A high level of support is provided during the programme, as defined in an agreement
 between student and supervisors. Every student is allocated at least 2 academic supervisors
 who work with them to produce an initial proposal within 3 months and then supervise progress.
 University policy determines at least 10 formal meetings a year, however, our students are
 encouraged to meet more frequently. PGRs are important members of groups, to ensure they

                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are fully integrated into a vibrant research culture and able to obtain informal support from other
 students, RAs and academics working on related topics; as well as via PGR peer support
 groups.

 The University provides generic research skills training and monitors the courses attended, and
 the school provides specific technique-based training. Credits are awarded for completion of
 modules and a minimum score is needed before students proceed to further years. A panel,
 comprising 2 independent academic colleagues, monitors progress throughout the PhD
 interviewing the student and reviewing reports.

 The School holds an Annual Research Conference organised and led by PGRs. It provides a
 platform for students to learn about current research in the School and gain experience in
 technical writing and presentation skills. The event attracts keynote speakers and financial
 sponsorship from industry. First year students present a poster, whereas students in subsequent
 years present a technical paper with presentation. Best-student prizes are awarded. Last year,
 because of COVID, the conference was successfully held on-line.

 A Research Student-Staff Committee meets regularly with senior representatives from SEB and
 every discipline, offering a direct route to raise concerns, or to discuss ideas for improving
 student experience. Diversity and appropriate representation is ensured, and students from
 every group are encouraged to participate. The Committee organises inclusive social events and
 team building activities such as quiz nights. School students are also represented on the Faculty
 Student-Staff Committee.

 PGR Recruitment
 PGR recruitment includes self-funded, individual and cohort-based studentships with
 approximately 60% international and 40% “UK/EU”. Individual students are recruited through
 application in response to advertised studentships or, for self-funded students, direct application.
 There are a range of international recruitment activities throughout the year to promote research
 opportunities. The process is designed to support EDI principles with multiple staff members of
 different backgrounds involved. We discuss needs with every student and any agreed
 modifications to working practice or spaces are supported.

 For UK recruitment, we believe that cohort-based programmes are important, and we will
 continue to use our expertise, facilities and training portfolio to lead integrated PhD programmes.
 Since 2014, we have recruited to 5 major cohort-based PhD programmes:

    •   EPSRC Engineering Doctorate in Biopharmaceutical Process Development, led by
        Newcastle, 2009 to 2018, all students placed with industrial sponsors.
    •   IAPETUS where staff contribute to the themes “Global Environmental Change”,
        “Geodynamics and Earth Resources” and “Hazard, Risk and Resilience”.
    •   STREAM, the Industrial Doctoral Centre for the Water Sector led by Cranfield University,
        funded by EPSRC and sponsorship companies, 2009 to 2018.
    •   EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Diamond Science & Technology, which brought
        together nine universities and industrialists from more than 30 companies.
    •   EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Additive Manufacture and 3D Printing. All
        studentships were CASE-like with an industrial or third sector sponsor.

 We lead three ongoing cohort-based programmes:

    •   Sustainable Electric Propulsion; EPSRC-funded CDT.
    •   Geospatial Systems; EPSRC-funded CDT.
    •   One Planet, NERC-funded DTP.

 We are a major stakeholder in ongoing externally led cohort-based programmes:



                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Renewable Energy Northeast Universities (ReNU), EPSRC CDT led by Northumbria
        University
    •   Water resilience for infrastructure and cities, EPSRC CDT led by Cranfield University
    •   Offshore wind energy and the environment, EPSRC CDT led by Hull University
    •   IAPETUS 2, NERC DTP. This is a partnership between research universities in England
        and Scotland, together with British Geological Survey and Centre for Ecology &
        Hydrology, named after the ancient ocean that closed to bring together the two countries.

 With our enhanced mentoring and management of PGRs, graduations have increased over the
 REF period from 77 per year in 2014-15 to 91 per year in 2019-20. This includes more than 60
 industrially funded students who completed during the REF period.

 PGR Training
 We offer over thirty skills training courses for research students, based on the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework, including research skills and techniques, communication skills,
 networking and team working, and career management. Students are supported in maintaining a
 personal development programme throughout their degree. All students build up training credits
 in each year of their study, through skills training, presentations within the University and
 attending and presenting at conferences. Progress monitoring is through an online “ePortfolio”
 system, which students update with documents relevant to their progression.

 In 2020, the University launched a campus-wide Skills Academy to support career needs, and
 nurture creativity and innovation in our research students. This has dramatically increased the
 range of training opportunities available on our CANVAS virtual learning environment.

 At the start of the REF period, the University launched a PGR Innovation Fund for groups of
 students working on projects to improve the PGR student experience, e.g. by increasing
 attendance at key conferences and networking events. Students are encouraged to take an
 active role in improving their experience and we involve PGR representatives. We invite
 participation in the annual HEA PGR Experience Survey and for 2019 94.3% of Engineering
 respondents were satisfied with their experience.

 PGR career breaks
 The School has introduced a scheme to fund maternity leave for PGR students when sponsors
 don’t provide this.

 PGR employment in research
 We are strong in supporting the journey to research as a career. Employment of our PhD
 graduates as researchers is strong with at least 95 (17% of all PGRs) in the last five years: 65
 (PDRAs at Newcastle); 30 external.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The strategy has been to diversify funding sources whilst maintaining our research council
 income. We have set up mentoring systems to increase the number of submissions from early
 career researchers resulting in a 17% increase over the REF period. In the last four years, two
 thirds of our research income has come from research councils – often considered the gold
 standard. A further 20% came from EU and UK government sources, 10% from industry and 3%
 from charities. The REF period has seen substantial growth in RCUK funding (three year
 average annual spends up from £8.3M in 2015 to £12.3M in 2019). Total research spend over
 the REF period is over £121M, the three year average annual spend rising from £17.4M in 2015
 to £19.4M in 2019. In addition, we have received over £0.5M in-kind income during the REF
 period for facilities time at Diamond (23%), ESRF (40%), ISIS (21%) and GNSS (15%).


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Going forward, success in new research initiatives already gives us secured funding of more
 than £25M over the next 7 years with a dramatic increase in charity and government funding.
 Our success in winning three CDTs and being key participants in four others has helped
 alongside our strategy to prioritise long term initiatives. Research income is anticipated to grow
 in the coming years as new academic colleagues and early career researchers become
 established in their fields. Senior academics will be encouraged to lead longer, larger
 collaborative research projects. We will also encourage networking nationally (e.g. Achilles and
 CeSI), industrial partnerships (e.g. Dyson, Hoganas and Goodrich) and international
 partnerships (e.g. GRCF water hub). We have key technicians supporting work across the
 School with specialisms that cover our major research infrastructure. This includes running
 analytical and characterisation facilities, manufacture of samples and test rigs and providing
 routine testing services e.g. manufacture and test of gears to industrial standards.

 Consultancy income over the REF period is £23.4M, including contracts from large multinational
 organisations e.g. Rolls Royce and Siemens, and with smaller companies e.g. Peratech.

 Infrastructure strategy
 Since 2014, the School has been addressing the problem of cramped, overcrowded engineering
 buildings on the main campus to provide unique facilities and creative spaces that provide the
 dynamic research environment to realise our GRTs. Three key elements to our infrastructure
 strategy are:

    •   Investing in new infrastructure. To invest in growth areas and build a new flagship
        building for the new School of Engineering. At the heart of this is a redeveloped
        Stephenson Building (Figure 2), conducting world-leading research and innovative
        teaching, generating partnerships with industry and addressing skills shortages in key
        areas. This £65M project, which started in 2020, will provide new state of the art facilities
        to upscale and accelerate our research in bioengineering, digital manufacturing and
        propulsion.
    •   Co-locating large facilities with industry: To maximise impact by moving large facilities
        offsite where they can be co-located with industry e.g. purpose-built sites at Blyth,
        Walker, Sunderland.
    •   Refurbishing and enhancing existing facilities: To meet the research requirements of our
        GRTs, including development of the One Planet facilities in the Drummond Building.




              Figure 2. Concept design for interior space of new Stephenson Building

 New and Refurbished Buildings
 Major infrastructure investments that started in the REF period include:




                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Stephenson Building (£68.7m). Redevelopment of existing mechanical engineering
        building to create a focus for multi-disciplinary engineering research and teaching.
    •   Urban Sciences Building (USB) (£58m). State-of-the art flagship development on the
        £350M Newcastle Helix regeneration site in the heart of the city. Part of a demonstrator
        to create a full-scale demonstration of urban innovation; “a living laboratory” underpinning
        research to make urban centres more sustainable for future generations.
    •   The Key (£1m). A fabric-roofed structure on the Helix site; the first in the UK to use such
        a structure as office space.
    •   National Innovation Centre for Data (£44.4m). The Catalyst building in Newcastle is the
        home for two National Innovation Centres: Ageing and Data. It is a dynamic community
        of ambitious businesses and research specialists working collaboratively to develop
        products and services.
    •   Port of Blythe (£2.5m). The Emerson Cavitation Tunnel and specialist flume were moved
        to a purpose-built facility for hydrodynamic research on propellers, turbines, foils, bluff
        bodies and their coatings and innovations with an extensive range of instrumentation.
    •   Tyne Subsea (£2m). A hyperbaric testing and research facility located on the north bank
        of the Tyne including a 4.5m long and 2.5m diameter hyperbaric chamber; the largest
        commercially available chamber of its type in the world.
    •   One Planet, Drummond Building Refurbishment (£2m). With strengths in water research,
        organic geochemistry and analytical environmental chemistry we are creating a unique
        scientific environment to help us contribute to our GRT challenges.
    •   Advanced Engineering Hub, to co-locate industry facing colleagues in a purpose-built
        facility, in close proximity to industry and our Tyne Subsea facility. Specialist research
        and industrial testing facility for power transmission systems, including materials testing,
        metrology, failure analysis and a climatic chamber simulating extreme environments. It
        will be the new home for the Design Unit and the UKRINN facilities when completed in
        the next year.


 Projects in early-stage development:

    •   The School is establishing the DER North East Industrialisation Centre (part of a £30M
        national project led by Newcastle) on the International Advanced Manufacturing Park,
        Sunderland, an £18m investment from Sunderland City Council next to Nissan’s electric
        vehicle factory.
    •   The InTEGRel site run by Northern Gas Networks, with partners from other utilities and
        industry, will house research covering hydrogen supply developments in the north east.
        Installation of pilot-scale research facilities by the School is in the planning stage.

 Unique facilities
 We invest in facilities that support our current and future research portfolio and new facilities to
 meet the needs of emergent research. All groups have access to their own specialist facilities
 and are supported by cross-cutting facilities across the campus. External specialist facilities are
 used, as needed.

 New major facilities since 2014, with significant external and University investment include:

    •   The UK Rail Research and Innovation Network (UKRRIN). Newcastle has been
        appointed Centre of Excellence for Rolling Stock resulting in a £2m investment in testing
        facilities. Industry has committed £64m to UKRRIN projects 2020-2028 and we will work
        with stakeholders to take advantage of this.
    •   A Smart Grid laboratory with £0.5M from Siemens and matching University investment.
        This combines distribution network devices, monitoring and control equipment with field
        trial data and computer models to test advanced network management techniques.
    •   Driving the Electric Revolution. NU leads a £30M national network of four
        Industrialisation Centres across the UK, to enable faster collaborative research and

                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        development of electric machines, including cars, planes and ships. NU is establishing
        the DER North East Industrialisation Centre in Sunderland close to Nissan, and the
        School has recently won £9M new manufacturing and testing equipment for electric
        vehicles.
    •   InTEGRel, led by Northern Gas Networks and in partnership with Northern Powergrid
        and NU is a new integrated energy facility in Gateshead. It is helping to tackle the UK’s
        energy challenges with teams of academics and engineers working to deliver
        breakthroughs in the decarbonisation of heat, energy storage and transport, to identify
        the most affordable and practical solutions for moving customers onto low carbon, low-
        cost energy.
    •   BEWISe, the “Biological Engineering: Wastewater Innovation at Scale” facility has been
        developed at Northumbrian Water’s sewage treatment plant at Birtley. It is the first of its
        type in Europe for large-scale wastewater treatment research using bacteria. It is playing
        a key role in improving how sewage is treated by speeding up the transition from existing
        energy-intensive treatment processes to low carbon alternatives with lower running
        costs.
    •   We are founding partners of UKCRIC (UK Collaboratorium for Research in Infrastructure
        and Cities, and have lead roles in all three strands:
            o £10M investment into the National Green Infrastructure Facility (NGIF), a unique
                full-scale space for research in soil-vegetation-atmosphere interaction in the
                urban environment. NGIF is a ‘living laboratory’, underpinning research into
                sustainable drainage systems and green infrastructure to make urban centres
                more resilient and sustainable for future generations.
            o £8M investment into our Urban Observatory, a ground-breaking project to monitor
                Newcastle. It has become a major provider of open source data from a network
                of sensors around Newcastle since REF 2014. This offers unique scale and data
                resolution that aids modelling the effects of the environment and urban planning
                decision making. Through UKCRIC we lead the National Observatories
                programme which includes Birmingham, Bristol, Manchester, Sheffield and
                Cranfield.
            o Partners in the £8M DAFNI programme (Data & Analytics Facility for National
                Infrastructure) and have a key role on its Governance and Executive Board.

 Previously established specialist facilities, which have been further developed and were
 available over the REF period, include:

    •   An investment of £3.5m (£2.3m EPSRC; £1.2m University) in equipment for interface
        engineering and characterisation. This purchased a He-ion microscope with analytical
        capability (a UK first) and a Time-of-Flight Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometer, and new
        atomic layer deposition and additive layer manufacture equipment, which will be used to
        create new interfaces and gradient structures.
    •   Tyne Subsea (£2M from the University with a further £5M from HEFCE and industry)
        offering nationally leading large scale hyperbaric and environmental test facilities capable
        of testing at temperatures and pressures equivalent to deep ocean conditions.
    •   The Advanced Chemical and Materials Analysis Service provides a range of analytical
        techniques, including scanning electron microscopy; x-ray powder diffraction; inductively
        coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy; FT infrared spectroscopy; structural
        mass spectrometry; and carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen combustion analysis.
    •   The UK National Gear Metrology Laboratory (NGML) is accredited by the UK
        Accreditation Service (UKAS) for the measurement and calibration of gears, gear
        artefacts and gear measuring instruments, and is linked to primary calibration facilities at
        the NPL (UK) and Physikalisch-Technisch Bundersanstalt (Germany). It maintains and
        develops the UK reference calibration objects to establish and disseminate traceability to
        industry throughout the UK.
    •   The marine research labs: (i) The Emerson Cavitation Tunnel, used to study marine
        propulsion cavitation; (ii) The Jones Marine Engineering Laboratory, which features a
        diesel engine test bed which has been adapted to operate using novel fuels; (iii) the

                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Hydrodynamics laboratory which features a wave, wind, and tidal facility for renewable
        energy research and (iv) a towing tank for calm water, wave resistance and sea-keeping
        experiments.
    •   Dedicated facilities for electric drives. Modern, specialist equipment includes 13
        dynamometers, worth £1.5M, spanning powers of up to 500kW and speeds up to
        100,000 rpm. We also have an environmental chamber, new instrumentation including
        DC and variable frequency AC supplies up to 60KVA, totalling more than £1M. In
        addition to 800 m2 of laboratories on the main campus, we have gained 200 m2 of space
        in the new USB building. This space is dedicated to energy management, where we have
        acquired bespoke source and load emulators all connected to an 11kV test ring. In our
        energy, power and transport laboratory, we do battery recycling and battery degradation
        research work sponsored by the Faraday Institution and we conduct tests on electric
        vehicle charging technologies.
    •   Microelectronic fabrication facilities including two class 1000 clean rooms with end-to-end
        fabrication capability, housing a 200 mm cluster tool for atomic layer deposition, sputter
        deposition, chemical stations, rapid thermal processing, special tools for SiC processing,
        lithography, coating and device bonding, together with metrology tools such as an
        ellipsometer and microscopes. In addition, we also have access to a 400 m2 class 100
        clean-room for device fabrication, packaging and evaluation on campus.
    •   The Thermofluids lab has specialised experimental facilities (particle image velocimetry,
        laser doppler velocimetry, micro-PIV, wind tunnel and water tunnel, high pressure fuel
        spray and combustion, vortex rig, emissions testing) which have been co-located in a
        new lab since REF2014.
    •   We make significant use of the N8 super-computer (>5000 cores) and the £43M national
        super-computer, ARCHER (>118,000 cores).
    •   Environmental researchers benefit from molecular microbiology capacity that is unique in
        the UK (e.g. Ion Torrent DNA sequencing system with dedicated bioinformatics clusters,
        pipelines and support, qPCR instrumentation, DNA purification and liquid-handling
        robots, flow cytometer and epifluorescence microscopy), analytical chemistry (e.g. Liquid
        Chromatography MS- ion trap and triple-quad; ICP-OES and ICP-MS for metals analysis;
        Mössbauer spectrometer) and pilot plant facilities (multi-instrumented data-logged
        replicate lab-scale reactors).
    •   Geospatial Engineering researchers benefit from field equipment and processing
        facilities, housed in a dedicated laboratory, including the ‘MORP’ IGS station (part of the
        NERC BIGF, EUREF and IGS networks), the ‘MORG’ Leica SmartNet reference station
        and the ‘MORO’ Ordnance Survey fundamental GeoNet station. GE also operates the
        ‘NSLG’ GNSS receiver at North Shields in the UK Tide Gauge and IGS ‘TIGA’ networks,
        and hosts a Topcon NRTK reference station ‘NCLV’ and the Ordnance Survey national
        GPS network ‘NCAS’ station. Operation of the IGS Global Network Associate Analysis
        Centre (GNAAC) and Associate Analysis Centre of the International Laser Ranging
        Service contribute to international state of the art geodetic analyses underpinning the
        development and evolution of the International Terrestrial Reference Frame.
    •   Earth Systems Laboratories are a unique platform for inter-disciplinary systems scale
        research, fusing theory with large scale experimentation and demonstration, comprising:
             o The BIONICS national facility, a densely instrumented full-scale section of
                 infrastructure embankment with climate control capability.
             o An experimental groundwater borehole array at Cockle Park Research Farm.
             o The Eden CHASM / Demonstration Test Catchment (DTC) containing ~ £1M
                 worth of instrumentation and is a UNESCO designated HELP basin. The site is a
                 Defra flagship addressing sustainable farming and mitigating sediment and
                 nutrient pollution. The DTC site hosts the NERC Environmental Virtual
                 Observatory Pilot.
             o The Belford Catchment Flood Solution Project was one of the first full-scale
                 natural flood management projects to be created in the UK.
             o The Tyne and Wear ‘Urban Traffic Management Control’ (UTMC) System funded
                 by DfT and Local Authorities.


                                                                                           Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Our Sensing Labs are high-quality, purpose-built research facilities, including: (1) 100m2
        Intelligent Sensing laboratory with £300k worth of FDA- and CE-marked
        electrophysiology sensing, imaging and fast prototyping equipment, (2) a
        Communications Systems laboratory equipped with a £150K massive MIMO base station
        for 5G research, (3) an anechoic RF chamber (£0.5M) for EMI-free RF and antenna
        characterisation over a wide range of frequencies (300MHz – 8.9GHz) (4) a Sensors,
        Electromagnetics and Acoustics laboratory (SEALAB) equipped with a £1M anechoic
        acoustic tank to enable wet testing of underwater modems, (5) a Sensors and NDT
        laboratory (£1M) equipped with eddy current pulsed thermograph (6) laser sciences and
        photonics facilties (£300K).
    •   A dedicated Biofabrication lab with bioprinting technologies and cell culture facilities
        supporting research into the fabrication of a range of artificial tissues for drug testing and
        tissue engineering was created for the DMM group (£500K).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research and its outputs are highly collaborative, and end-user focussed. This is evidenced
 by our current EPSRC research portfolio where, of 28 grants, 24 are collaborative with 65
 different UK and international universities and research organisations. There are 143 other
 unique partners (by EPSRC definition of providing a financial contribution) on these grants,
 constituting an active end-user community (Source: EPSRC Grants on the Web, accessed 10
 December 2020). Published research shows the interdisciplinary and collaborative nature of our
 work, with School authors contributing some 2,600 ISI cited papers in the period 2014-2020 co-
 authored with a total of around 4,500 institutions, with around 3,500 of these based overseas.
 Furthermore, ~25% of the co-authors are “end-users” (e.g. industry or government departments)
 rather than from research institutions (Source: Web of Science, December 2020).

 Research collaborations are supported by our leadership and membership of
 national/international networks (we have published papers with 106 other UK Universities),
 embedding companies within the School, our Industrial Advisory Groups, encouraging visiting
 professorial exchanges, and participation in the N8 research partnership.

 Interdisciplinary, collaborative research programmes and linkages with industry have been
 supported in various ways, e.g.:

    •   NU invested £0.5M in developing interdisciplinary research networks in sustainability,
        ageing and social inclusion.
    •   Funding for travel in the development of research proposals, including a specific fund for
        meetings related to the development of EC proposals.

 Exemplars of Key collaborations
 Our research grants demonstrate commitment to collaborative working with other universities
 and key partners. For example, the Water group in collaboration with UEA, Bristol University, the
 Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, and the Science and Technology Facilities Council are
 partners in the Open CLimate IMpacts modelling framework (OpenCLIM) to provide the next
 generation of modelling tools to assess the risks of climate change. The £2M programme
 (£800K to Newcastle) is funded by the UK Climate Resilience Programme and will underpin the
 UK’s 4th Climate Change Risk Assessment scheduled by parliament to report in 2027. The Fluids
 group and collaborators from Cambridge University, Imperial college, University of Edinburgh
 and Daresbury Laboratory have attracted £3.8M research council funding on research areas

                                                                                              Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dealing with different aspects of energy efficiency and environmental friendliness for both power
 generation and propulsion sectors.

 The REF outputs give an indication of our main academic collaborators. These include jointly
 authored papers reporting collaborations with:
    • Allied Healthcare, Biology, Chemistry, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering,
        Mathematics, Medicine and Physics disciplines.
    • Birmingham, Brunel, Cambridge, Cardiff, Cranfield, Durham, Edinburgh, Imperial
        College, Kings College London, Leeds, Liverpool, Loughborough, Oxford, Sheffield, St
        Andrews, Strathclyde, Surrey, Ulster and UCL universities.
    • International collaborators based in Australia, China, the Czech Republic, Georgia,
        Germany, Greece, India, Iran, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Libya, Malaysia, the
        Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, and
        USA.
    • Industry e.g. GSK, Shell, Ricardo, Roche, Riken, Novartis, Astra Zenica, Sanofi, Dyson,
        Rolls Royce, Proctor and Gamble and Dialog.

 We seek to maximise engagement and impact through these relationships with academic and
 industrial end-users. This involves direct collaboration, consultancy and CPD provision for
 industry and other commercial users of technology e.g. offshore survey and precision
 agriculture.

 We work closely with end users and partners through a number of mechanisms to maximise the
 utility and impact of our research on our GRTs:
      • Research networks and centres.
      • Establishment of strategic priorities with existing industrial collaborators to build long-
          term relationships (e.g. with International Paint, now Akzo-Nobel, for over 30 years and
          have lasting links with Dyson, Rolls Royce and Northumbrian water).
      • Institutional strategic partnerships (e.g. Arup, BAE Systems and Siemens where we are a
          “Preferred Partner” University, one of only seven in the UK).
       • School level strategic partnerships such as with Stadler in the area of rolling stock
          development.
       • Industrial Advisory Boards to support Disciplines and research projects.
       • External advisory boards and committees e.g. Director of National Microelectronics
          Institute (now Techworks); a forum for >250 UK electronics systems businesses; the only
          director from academia is in Engineering (O’Neill).
       • The appointment of Professors of Practice from Industry (e.g. Drury who was elected
          FREng in 2020 and supports our electric drives research, Boyle who is the National
          Executive Chair for DER (Driving the Electrical Revolution) and Herron, Managing
          Director of Zero Carbon Futures).


 Working with industry
 We have strong industry links e.g. with: Dyson (Impact Case Study 2), Siemens, Hoganas,
 Northern Power Grid and Jaguar Land Rover in Electrical Power Engineering. The links with
 Dyson recently led to an EPSRC Prosperity Partnership award worth £5m; Dyson contributing
 half the funds. Work in the electric vehicles area in collaboration with Jaguar Land Rover,
 initially funded through innovate UK projects and the Advanced Propulsion Centre resulted in
 the generation of a successful spinout company.

 We drive strategically important long term links with relationship managers tasked with
 generating collaborative funding. We have used our partnership with Siemens to develop
 research in the energy area, particularly in the CESI project. Research is expanding into open

                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 data in collaboration with Newcastle Computer scientists because Siemens views the UK work
 ahead of that in Germany where the company is headquartered. New opportunities include the
 Innovate UK GCRF project RESONATE (Water Reuse Innovation for Sustainable Households,
 Communities and Cities) and the North of Tyne Advancing Circular Economy demonstrator
 project (Neumann) with P&G.

 We have a number of Visiting Professors of Practice. These are senior colleagues, generally
 from Industry, who offer advice and stimulate sustained research collaboration: David
 Hetherington (Global Water Research Manager, Arup); Chris Jones (Director of R&D,
 Northumbrian Water) and Matt Boyle OBE, Executive Chair of the national DER project.

 Our industrial links are evident in part from the REF outputs, which include industrial co-authors
 from over 450 companies. However, many industrial links have led to important research outputs
 without joint publication over the REF period.

 NU acquired Zero Carbon Futures UK (ZCF) in November 2020, a company that provides
 insight into low carbon vehicles and associated technologies enabling the development of
 strategies to reduce carbon emissions from transport. ZCF will enhance our recent success in
 DER allowing us to operationalise electric drives to meet the Government’s net zero targets.


 Working with UK Local and National Governments
 Several research areas impinge directly on Government actions. For instance, in Future Mobility,
 Blythe is Chief Scientific Adviser to the Department for Transport and it is no surprise that
 transport is back as a key EPSRC area after an absence of 10 years. The DfT initiative, Future
 of Mobility, is driven by our position, one of 4 Grand Challenges established in the Industrial
 Strategy to improve people’s lives, increase the country’s productivity and put the UK at the
 forefront of future industries.

 Open data supplied by the Urban Observatory programme is valuable in helping Government
 understand mobility changes during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our ongoing support to DfT’s
 Science Advisory Council and the Transport Research Innovation Board was acknowledged by
 Grant Schapps, Secretary of State for Transport, September 2020.

 In Geotechnics and Structures, Utili was seconded to the Science and Technology Committee of
 the House of Commons as Academic Parliamentary Fellow, March 2018 to February 2019.

 CityCAT flood modelling has been used by Newcastle City Council, Antwerp and New York local
 authorities, amongst others, for flood risk resilience design. Fowler and PDRA Chan contributed
 to the development of the new UK Climate Projections. Quinn was appointed Special Advisor to
 the EFRA Select Committee flood inquiry.

 The city of Newcastle was named global climate leader for its efforts to become carbon neutral
 by 2030 through its Net Zero Task Force co-chaired by Fowler with Council Leader, Nick Forbes.

 Working with National Organisations
 We have given advice to the National Fire Chiefs Council on electric vehicle crashworthiness
 and damage to rechargeable batteries. Christensen peer reviewed
 the fire service’s National Operational Guidance (on board all fire tenders) on rechargeable
 batteries and is on BEIS working group defining UK FRS response.

                                                                                           Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Working with International Organisations
 Dawson: advises UN on risks to cities and leads the Urban Resilience theme of Tyndall Centre
 for Climate Change Research; appointed to Committee on Climate change.

 Fowler held a Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship for work on hydrological impacts of climate
 change; contributing author on two chapters of IPCC 6th Assessment WGI Report (Ch. 8 Water
 Cycle and Ch. 11 Extremes); leads the Global Energy and Water Exchanges (GEWEX)
 Hydroclimate Panel.

 We are a longstanding partner of the Willis global research network
 (https://www.willistowerswatson.com/en-gb/insights/research-programs-and-collaborations/willis-
 research-network), an award-winning collaboration to improve the understanding and
 quantification of risk. This has led to research with highly rated institutions (e.g. Princeton,
 ETHZ, NUS). Since 2009, Kilsby and Serinaldi have been funded as Senior Academic and
 Research Fellow in the Willis Research Network working on flood risk.

 Patents and consultancies
 We have made 97 patent applications since 2014 with seven granted supporting start-up
 companies in electric motors, aerogel insulation and ultrasonic imaging. Other patents have
 progressed with industry (e.g. Element 6 and Dialog Semiconductor). 145 colleagues (>75%)
 have had important industrial links/consultancies over the assessment period. The majority of
 consultancy income is associated with the Design Unit in the area of power transmission
 systems and gears, increasingly for electric vehicles. Other exemplars include: the development
 of design software Workcraft for semiconductor manufacturers (Yakovlev, Impact Case Study 1);
 working with Northumbrian Water on “Biological Engineering: Wastewater Innovation at Scale”
 (Davenport); a £17m collaboration with Rolls Royce on future aircraft (Baker); a consultancy to
 act as Japan Government’s technical expert in pursuit of a subsidy and countervailing measures
 suit in WTO, with the shipbuilding industry of South Korea as the defendant (Stott).

 Exemplars of Collaborative and Interdisciplinary Research
 Significant EPSRC activity in multi-partner collaborative research includes: ACHILLES
 (EP/R034575/1) on long life transport infrastructure assets (6 University and 11 industry
 partners); Centre for Energy Systems Integration (EP/P001173/1) with 5 University and 30
 industry and government partners; SynFabFun (EP/M01486X/1) on membrane materials with 4
 University and 11 industrial partners; the Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Therapies
 Centre Versus Arthritis (5 University partners). We have major roles in interdisciplinary research
 facilitated by University NUCoREs: Walker leads Energy; Fowler leads Climate Change and
 Environmental Resilience; Wright leads a stream in Data; Joyce leads a stream in Regulatory
 Science. James leads the UKCRIC Urban Observatory network.

 Exemplars of Leadership in the Academic Community
 UKRI College Members, EPSRC and NERC: 35.
 Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering: Blythe, Bull, Mecrow, Metcalfe, Postlethwaite,
 Yakovlev; and Braiden, Johnson, Morris, O’Connell and Page (emeritus).

 Leading roles in Societies and Institutions
 Chair of UK Consortium on Turbulent Reacting Flows (Chakraborty); Chair of Awards and
 Professional Standards committee of RSPSoc (Xiao); Vice President Learned Society IChemE
 (Glassey); President, UK Heat Transfer Society (Reay); Chairman of Barrow Hill Engine Shed

                                                                                            Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society (Robinson); Treasurer, Chair of Finance commission and Grants Evaluation Committee
 for the International Society of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing council (Mills); 2018-19
 Chair of the International Association of Travel Behaviour Research (Cherchi); Vice President of
 the International Rail Research Board responsible for worldwide academic networks for rail
 research (Robinson); 2016-2020 Chair of European Conference of Transport Research Institutes
 (Robinson);Vice President of the IET (Blythe).

 Other panel/committee memberships: over 50 individual memberships in the period including:
 Computational Science Centre for Research Communities (Chakraborty); National Infrastructure
 Commission, Technical Expert Advisory Group (Dawson); Foreign High-end Expert, Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs, China (Robinson); Future Earth - Urban Knowledge Action Network – Steering
 Group (Dawson); Rail Vehicle/Structures Systems Interface Committee (Palacin); Vehicle/Train
 Energy System Interface Committee (Palacin); Transport Lead, Hydrogen Advisory Council
 (Blythe); Commissioner – Adaptation Committee, Committee on Climate Change (Dawson);
 EA/DEFRA working group on understanding AMR fate in wastewater systems (Graham); Royal
 Society Industrial Fellowship panel expert (Glassey); Chair of the LWEC Infrastructure Report
 Card working group (Dawson); DSAC independent member (Bull); Future of our national
 infrastructure programme, Government Office for Science (Dawson); Chair of Commission 1:
 “Data Acquisition”, EuroSDR (European Spatial Data Research)(Mills); Invited to convene a
 session at the Inter-governmental Panel Climate Change Conference on Cities in Canada
 (Walsh); NERC Advisory Network (Clarke); Steering Committee European Association for
 Research in Transportation (Cherchi); Executive Board of International Association of Travel
 Behaviour Research (Cherchi); Science Advisory Group for Emergencies SAGE (Blythe); BEIS
 CCUS Young Professionals Forum (Mutch).

 Standards and industry working groups
 We contribute to the development and implementation of standards. We house the UK National
 Gear Metrology Laboratory as part of the UK’s National Measurement System supported by
 BEIS. We work on various standardisation groups e.g. Neasham is member of DSTL/MoD's
 CETO working group on the development of underwater communication standards and teamed
 with two industrial partners to define, validate and demonstrate an underwater acoustic
 communication standard for data sharing between UK forces and its allies. Dalgarno wrote the
 BSI White Paper on “The impact and potential for 3D printing and bioprinting in the medical
 devices industry” BSI Standards Ltd, 2019 and Fowler was a BSI committee member for
 B/505/21/11 Climate change.

 Advisory Boards
 Member of Rolls Royce ECSEAB Advisory Board, providing external advice on electrical
 machines (Mecrow); Member of Advisory Board of government initiative "Driving the Electric
 Revolution" (Mecrow); Chair, UK Government Transport Research and Innovation Board
 (Blythe); Network Rail and Highways England Research and Innovation Advisory Boards
 (Blythe)

 Plenary Lectures: [2015] 26th Chinese Process Control Conference (Zhang), IET PEMD
 conference (Mecrow); Astra-Zeneca Pharmaceuticals in the environment conference
 (Davenport); Diamond Conference (Goss); [2016] 1st UK-Brazil Workshop on Sustainable
 Wastewater Treatment (Davenport); [2017] ECMI-SciTech (Boussakta); ICCMR13 (Metcalfe);
 [2018] CQID (Glassey), UKTC annual meeting (Chakraborty); the International Conference of
 micro and nano-diagnostics of fossil coals and rocks (Bull); IPCC Cities and Climate Change


                                                                                         Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conference and the Global Engineering Congress (Dawson) [2019] Electrochemistry 2019
 (Scott, whilst receiving the Castner Medal).

 Keynotes: 126 in the REF period e.g. [2014] EC2E2N (Glassey); ICOM (Metcalfe); [2015]
 Sustainability 2015 (Stirling); BioTech 2015 (Chen); IEEE Transportation and Electrification
 Conference (Pickert); [2016] ICCE (Liu), International Conference on Embedded Systems
 (Boussakta), ICIM (Metcalfe), PI for Greener Industry (Boodhoo), BioTech (Chen), Agua
 (Davenport), Soft Materials for Energy Applications (Geoghegan); [2017] TACT (Bull), GM3
 (Rouania), GRC on Oscillation and Dynamic Instabilities in Chemical Systems (Novakovic),
 IEEE Communications (Haigh); [2018] ICCSIC (Zhang), BIOMIC (Ferrara-Duarte), Modern
 Railways 8 (Robinson), ICIM (Metcalfe, ITEC (Pickert), MRS (Dagenaar), ARM summit
 (Yakovlev); Smart and future Cities (James); [2019] International Transport Forum Annual
 Summit (Mangan), TERMIS (Gentile), CORE (Yang), UKMIC (Stott), Biomaterials (Peeters),
 PIERS (Tian), ICCSIC (Zhang); MRS (Dagenaar). [2020] Biomaterials (Siller, Novakovic).

 Invited Lectures: 449 including invited presentations at overseas institutions, national and
 international conferences, workshops and discussion meetings. Specific examples where the
 invite covers policy or industrial issues include: Palacin speaking on digitalisation of urban
 mobility at H2020 RTR19 International Conference; Haigh speaking at Nokia Bell Labs and
 Samsung; Walker speaking at Westminster Energy, Environment & Transport Forum.

 Major report authorship
 We have contributed to reports for national and international governments and NGOs.
 Exemplars: United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Lead Author for 6th
 Assessment Report Chapter 6: Cities, Settlements and Key Infrastructure and Coordinating
 Lead Author for Cross Chapter Paper: Cities and Settlements by the Sea (Dawson); Lead author
 of Infrastructure Section: 2nd UK Climate Change Risk Assessment (Dawson); co-writing the
 Public Policy Brief on AMR mitigation for the UN (Graham); White Paper for NATO on
 "Assessment of plasma actuator technologies for internal flows" as part of the NATO AVT-254
 group (Neasham); Editor of the Engineering and Materials chapter of Exascale Computing
 Science case commissioned by EPSRC for the HM Treasury (Chakraborty); Contributor to Royal
 Society position paper on producing low-carbon hydrogen (Metcalfe).

 Editorial Boards
 106 editorial board positions including the following as editor in chief: IET Power Electronics
 (Pickert); Thermal Science and Engineering Progress (Reay); Education for Chemical Engineers
 (Glassey).

 Advisory and expert witness support
 Expert witness to the US Presidential Council on Antibiotic Resistance Bacteria, Washington DC
 (Graham); Adviser to the WHO on AMR mitigation via global WASH implementation (Graham);
 expert witness for healthcare product issues (Joyce); Chief Scientific Adviser DfT (Blythe).

 Best paper awards: 24 awards including: Best paper in 2016 in J. Engineering Design (Coates);
 Frank Kottlowski Memorial Award (Rouainia); B. John Davies Best Paper Prize for papers
 published in IJAMT 2015 (Huo); High research impact paper award from Chinese Journal of
 Mechanical Engineering (Tian); Outstanding Paper Award, 12th International Symposium on
 Linear Drives for Industry Applications (Baker); Best paper award J. Phys. D (2016) (Whalley). J.
 Flood Risk Management Outstanding paper Award (2019) (Fowler), the Gaydon Prize for the
 best UK paper in the 36th International Symposium on Combustion by the British Section of

                                                                                           Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Combustion Institute (2016) (Apsden). International Association of Hydrologic Sciences –
 Commission on Statistical Hydrology (IAHS-STAHY) 2020 best paper award (Serinaldi). Editor’s
 pick by Physics of Fluids (2018 Chakraborty)

 Other Awards/Prizes: 30 awards including: [2015] C-SAW (Council for Science and Animal
 Welfare) AstraZeneca, Global 3Rs Collaboration Award (Davenport); Hind-Rattan award, which
 is one of the highest awards given to people of Indian origin by the Government of India
 (Chakraborty); [2018] Netexplo Observatory Award for the hand that sees project, UNESCO
 (Nazarapour); IET Achievement Award (Yakovlev); UIC Lifetime Achievement Award
 (Robinson); [2019] Castner Medal from SCI (Scott); X-prize Moonshot award (Team Tao).
 [2020] Curtis won the International Water Association/International Society for Microbial Ecology
 Biocluster Awards Grand prize in 2020 recognising his work at the interface of microbial
 ecology, engineering sciences and water and wastewater treatment.

 Fellowships: 30 individual fellowships over the period including: EPSRC Research Fellowships
 (Nazarpour, Dawson); Parliamentary Academic Fellow at POST, secondment (Utili); EPSRC
 Healthcare Technologies Impact Fellowship (Novakovic); Faraday Institution Research Fellow
 (Rajaeifar); Mercator (Visiting Professor) Fellowship, Duisburg University (Chakraborty);
 Invitation Fellowship of JSPS (Chakraborty); RAEng (Mutch).




                                                                                           Page 34
