Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: C24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Loughborough University has placed Number 1 in the QS world ranking for sport-related
 subjects for five consecutive years (2017-2021, every year since the category was introduced).
 The University has made unprecedented investment in Unit activity over the past REF cycle:
 39% increase in staff returned, and opening of the National Centre for Sport and Exercise
 Medicine (£23.5M, 2015), the Institute for Sport Business on Loughborough’s Queen
 Elizabeth Olympic Park campus (2015) and the Elite Athlete Centre and Hotel (£7M, 2018).
 Our prestigious Research Centres include the NIHR Leicester-Loughborough Diet, Physical
 Activity and Lifestyle Biomedical Research Unit (2012-2017, £2.2M to Loughborough),
 succeeded by the NIHR Leicester Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) (2017-2022, £1.4M to
 Loughborough), and the Peter Harrison Centre for Disability Sport (£1.2M new awards).
 Looking to the future, our research collaboration with the £300M Defence Medical
 Rehabilitation Centre and the associated £90M civilian National Rehabilitation Centre will
 reach a new level when the NRC opens in 2024.

 1.1 Research structure
 The Unit comprises 89 (headcount) staff in the School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
 (SSEHS, on the Midlands campus) and 8 (headcount) in the Institute of Sport Business (ISB,
 Skinner leads) at Loughborough University London (LUL). SSEHS and LUL are two of the nine
 Schools at Loughborough, each led by a Dean and (for research and impact) Associate Deans
 for Research (ADR) and Enterprise (ADE). SSEHS Dean (Lewis), ADR (Stensel), and ADE
 (M.King), and, in LUL, ISB Director (Skinner) and ADE (Smith) are all returned to this Unit.

 1.1.1 Research Themes
 Our wide-ranging expertise encompasses medicine, molecular biology, nutrition, biomechanics,
 economics, pedagogy, physiology, psychology, sociology and sport management. For research
 and impact, these disciplines are organised under three broad Themes:

 Lifestyle for Health and Wellbeing (Bishop leads, supported by Esliger for impact): exercise as
 medicine, eating disorders and behaviours, molecular and muscle physiology, and physical
 activity and sedentary behaviour.

 Participation in Sport and Exercise (Downward (SSEHS) and Skinner (LUL) lead, supported
 by Casey for impact): Factors, structures and processes that motivate, enable, and constrain
 people’s engagements with sport and exercise as part of their daily lives. Sport consumption
 experiences, sport enterprise performance, and sport’s social contribution. Prominent disciplines
 include sociology and sport management.

 Sport Performance (V.Tolfrey leads, supported by Cushion for impact): elite sport, parasport,
 youth sport, illness/injury prevention and management. Prominent research disciplines include
 biomechanics and motor control, coaching, disability sport, immune function, physiology and
 nutrition, sport psychology.

 These themes unite communities of practice, facilitating interaction and sharing of ideas through
 regular meetings and seminars, grant funding workshops, coordinating research bids, PhD
 student conferences and mentoring/development opportunities.

 1.1.2 Interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinary research is a primary motivator for our diverse staff base. While our Research
 Themes are fundamentally interdisciplinary, staff can also be members of more than one theme
 and working across Themes is natural and encouraged.


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Interdisciplinary research across Units and Schools is stimulated by the institutional CALIBRE
 framework (Collective Ambition at Loughborough for Building Research Excellence), which is the
 research component of the University’s Building Excellence strategy. The framework includes
 the ‘Beacon’ programme, identifying just five priority research areas of which Sport and Exercise
 (Harwood leads) is one. Examples of joint projects include Unit staff from SSEHS and LUL
 working with the School of Social Sciences and Humanities on sport and cultural activities to
 promote personal and social development of young people (ESRC / DFID; £250k, 2017-19).

 The Beacon has also been active under CALIBRE’s Adventure Programme which funds mini-
 Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT):
 • The Next Generation Prosthetics mini-CDT (Lewis leads, in collaboration with the Schools of
    Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering, Science, and Design and Creative
    Arts) aims to design a fully integrated prostheses enabled by biological feedback via a tissue
    engineered conduit between the artificial prosthetic and remaining muscle and nerves. This
    also links to CALIBRE’s Health and Wellbeing Global Challenge.
 • The Gender and Sport mini-CDT (Witcomb leads, in collaboration with the Schools of Social
    Sciences and Humanities, and Design and Creative Arts) explores the critical issue of
    gender diversity in sports participation, from grassroots to elite level.

 Interdisciplinary research is further stimulated by Loughborough’s Institute of Advanced Studies
 (IAS) which brings world-leading researchers and research-users to our campuses to participate
 in themed programmes. International House, home of IAS, provides a welcoming environment
 on campus for international visitors. As Sport and Exercise Beacon lead, Harwood collaborated
 with the Transport Technologies Beacon Lead on the ‘Motion’ theme (2018) launched by an
 event featuring the Vice-Chair of the British Olympic Association and the Director of Smart
 Mobility for Ford Europe as keynote speakers.

 1.2 Review of objectives and research plans in REF 2014
 Strategic research objectives stated in REF2014 were:
 • To increase knowledge through world leading research
 • To maintain and enhance areas of traditional strength
 • To ensure research within the Unit addresses contemporary and emerging challenges

 In addition, the following strategic priority areas were identified:
 1. Sport performance
 2. Injury and rehabilitation
 3. Determinants and prevention of chronic diseases of lifestyle
 4. Sport policy and management

 With the launch of a new University Strategy in 2014, we placed explicit emphasis on excellence
 (quality) and a much sharper focus on strengths and refreshed priorities. This helped us deliver
 on our REF2014 objectives and priorities, with the following example achievements:

 Priority 1: Sport performance
 • A new Sport Performance Research Theme was established.
 • A Director of Sport Integration (Cushion) was appointed to enhance research links and
     activities between staff, the Sports Development Centre (supporting sport participation at
     Loughborough up to elite level), and the many sporting organisations on campus.
 • £1.8M industry funding: With Yakult Honsha (£196k), Gleeson showed that daily ingestion
     of a probiotic drink reduced plasma cytomegalovirus and Epstein Barr virus antibody
     concentrations, an effect that can be interpreted as a benefit to overall immune status. With
     Kyowa Hakko Bio (£148k), Bailey investigated the effects of amino acid supplementation (L-
     arginine alone and combined L-arginine and L-citrulline) on mitochondrial function and
     endurance performance, with preliminary findings suggesting a beneficial effect on both.
     With MAS Holdings (£0.8M), Pain measured female soft tissue deformation during running
     with marker-based motion tracking so that future support garment design can be based on

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    dynamic fit and function, while Folland identified the key biomechanical characteristics of
    economical running as a basis for feedback via wearable technology.

 Priority 2: Injury and rehabilitation
 • In 2014, the National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine (NCSEM) was recognised as
     an International Olympic Committee (IOC) Research Centre for the Prevention of Injury
     and Protection of Athlete Health. This status was renewed in 2019 for a further 4-years, one
     of just 11 in the world.
 • Peter Harrison Centre (PHC) for Disability Sport work on Spinal cord injury was shortlisted
     for Knowledge Exchange/Transfer Initiative of the Year in the national Times Higher
     Education awards (2018). The Centre’s direct contribution to ParalympicsGB exceeding their
     Rio 2016 performance goals was recognised by Mitch Hammond, Senior Performance
     Advisor UK Sport, who acknowledged “the work of the PHC towards assisting sports and
     athletes achieve what was a truly historic result at the Rio Paralympic Games” and Jonathon
     Riall, Paratriathlon Head Coach, who praised our “effective and seamless support to athletes
     in the lead up to the sport’s first Paralympic Games in Rio 2016”.
 • An EPSRC funded (£785k; Lewis) multidisciplinary project (manufacturing engineering,
     biological science, chemistry) demonstrated microfabrication of multi-material biological
     scaffolds for bioengineered 3D models of the human neuromuscular system, which can be
     applied to the investigation of neuromuscular physiology and disease.
 • This work was facilitated and enhanced by the launch (2016) of our Defence mini-CDT and
     our EPSRC CDT in Regenerative Medicine (both in partnership with the Defence Medical
     Services).

 Priority 3: Determinants and prevention of chronic diseases of lifestyle
 • The opening of the NCSEM (led by Loughborough, advancing the Exercise as Medicine
     agenda) enhanced research quality and scale leading to 11 staff now being returned to UoA2
     Public Health.
 • In the £11.6M NIHR Leicester BRC, Unit staff increased knowledge of the role of physical
     activity for preventing and managing cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, type 2
     diabetes, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
 • A Heart Research UK study (£145k, Bishop) established the viability of a randomised
     controlled trial of moderate and higher intensity exercise for reducing cardiovascular
     disease risk in kidney transplant recipients.
 • Grants from NIHR (£627k, Clemes) and MRC (£172k, Esliger) showed the benefits of
     reducing sedentary behaviour and increasing physical activity for schoolchildren, truck
     drivers and older adults. Clemes’ ‘Structured Health Intervention for Truckers’ project
     was shortlisted for a Medipex NHS Innovation Award in 2018.

 Priority 4: Sport policy and management
 • Two ESRC research grants (£582k, Giulianotti) on Sport for Development and Peace
     investigated the role of sport and cultural activities in promoting the personal and social
     development of young people in eight international locations. Outcomes included an
     international handbook on Sport for International Development, a seminar at the
     Commonwealth Secretariat’s HQ, and individual reports to NGOs on how to improve Sport
     for Development and Peace strategies and practices in the field.
 • Loughborough’s Collaboration for Sport Integrity was launched in 2018 with funding from
     the ESRC to explore past, present, and emerging challenges and their implications for wider
     understandings of decency and fairness. Key policymakers and stakeholders in the sport
     industry have contributed – including former MPs and representatives from DCMS, UNICEF,
     UK Anti-Doping, UK Coaching, and the Commonwealth Secretariat.
 • Collaboration between Collison and the UN Office on Drugs and Crime resulted in
     publication of a 140-page technical guide, ‘Preventing Violent Extremism Through Sport’
     (2020), a practical toolkit and online learning resources.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In January 2020, an invited International Expert Review Panel comprising distinguished
 academics from four of the QS top ten universities for sport-related subjects (Birmingham, UK;
 Ohio State, USA; Toronto, Canada; Queensland, Australia) concluded: “We were unanimously
 agreed that the maturity of physical infrastructure, the excellence of people, the technologies
 available and the networks and platforms of and for collaborations are truly impressive, and
 indeed worthy of QS world ranking #1 within Sport and Exercise Sciences”. We will refer to their
 findings at various points in this statement.

 1.3 Enabling and facilitating achievement of impact arising from research
 Our impact strategy focuses on six areas: leadership and mentorship, specialist impact support,
 professional development, funding, partners, and fellowships (study leave):
 • Leadership and mentorship are provided by senior academic staff including Associate
     Deans for Enterprise and Impact Leads within our Research Themes. All staff are
     encouraged to plan for achieving impact through their research. Impact is integral to our
     Performance and Development Review process (see 2.2).
 • Specialist impact support is facilitated by a Senior Translational Scientist and four
     additional translational scientists in SSEHS and, from the University Research and
     Enterprise Office, specialist advisers on partnership development, intellectual property
     exploitation and consultancy. Consultancy is conducted through Loughborough University
     Enterprises Ltd and the Unit has £1.3M income from projects with c.175 organisations since
     2015.
 • Professional development is provided through monthly enterprise clinics and regular
     enterprise workshops delivered by both internal and external speakers. Examples include
     ‘Fast track the impact of your research’ (2017); ‘Knowledge Transfer Partnerships’ (2018);
     ‘Social Media for Academics’ (2018); ‘Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement
     (PPIE)’ (2019); ‘Partnerships and ways to engage’ (2020).
 • Funding is available from the Higher Education Innovation Fund distributed by
     Loughborough’s Enterprise Projects Group (EPG). Unit staff secured approximately £300k
     through EPG for 13 projects from 2015-2020. Projects funded include the development of
     online CPD courses e.g., the Child Feeding Guide, the Professional Certificate for Sports
     Agents, and Sleepful, an online social network platform for the delivery of a cognitive
     behaviour therapy treatment programme for insomnia.
 • Partners. Our unique sport ecosystem includes a host of National Governing Bodies
     (NGBs), many based in SportPark on the Loughborough University Science and Enterprise
     Park. This facilitates our partnerships with the English Institute of Sport (EIS), British
     Athletics, British Swimming, the Amateur Swimming Association, the England and Wales
     Cricket Board (ECB), Great Britain Wheelchair Basketball, the Lawn Tennis Association, and
     the Youth Sport Trust.
 • Fellowships provide academic staff with protected time for up to 12 months (see 2.2).

 For the period 2013-18, the Unit was funded by a HEFCE Catalyst grant worth £7M for
 accelerating impact work on Exercise as Medicine. In addition to capital funding, doctoral
 scholarships for clinicians and four academic positions, substantial investment was made in
 translational scientists to drive impactful projects, an e-learning specialist to develop CPD
 resources, and dedicated marketing and PR support.

 Impact work is frequently shortlisted for University Enterprise Awards. Walking Works Wonders,
 a programme encouraging exercise in the workplace, was an ‘impact’ winner in 2015. A
 ‘partnership finalist’ award in 2019 celebrated a 15-year collaboration with the ECB facilitating
 wide-ranging changes spanning bowling, batting, pitch length, and protective equipment.
 Exercise Guidelines for Adults with Spinal Cord Injury was shortlisted for an ‘impact’ award in
 2019.

 1.3.1 How the selected impact case studies relate to our approach to achieving impact
 All impact case studies (ICSs) have benefited from the leadership, specialist support, training
 and internal funding. The unifying characteristic of our ICSs, however, has been the pivotal role

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 of partnerships, particularly with those located at SportPark. King’s case studies on cricket fast
 bowlers and cricket pitch lengths have benefited from a vibrant and enduring partnership with
 the ECB and its National Cricket Performance Centre on our Midlands campus. Harwood’s case
 study with parents and children in national and international tennis benefited from his
 longstanding partnership with the Lawn Tennis Association, as well as the award of a University
 Fellowship which provided him with dedicated time for this ICS and the ICS on psychological
 development of athletes in youth and para-football. In another productive partnership, the
 Youth Sport Trust have collaborated with Harris and Cale over many years on physical
 education policy. V.Tolfrey’s case study on Parasport again exemplifies collaboration with
 campus partners in SportPark including UK Sport and British Triathlon. Loughborough has
 sought to establish itself as the pre-eminent university in the world for para and disability sport.
 In 2019, Nik Diaper was appointed Head of Para Sport at Loughborough, the first role of its kind
 within higher education. V.Tolfrey’s impact work has benefited from collaboration with Diaper
 (previously with the EIS). Finally, Bradbury’s case study on BAME coaches is based on his
 strong partnerships with organisations further afield: The Football Association and the Football
 Against Racism in Europe Network.

 1.4 Research and impact objectives and plans for the next five years
 Our ambition is to deliver paradigm shifting research that informs and changes practice in areas
 related to sport, exercise and health sciences around the world. Our research and impact future
 plans have been developed through our Research Themes and validated by our International
 Review Panel (2020). They are presented by Research Theme.

 Priority 1: Lifestyle for Health and Wellbeing
 Our collaborative work within three major national centres will form the core of our plan for this
 Theme.
 • Extend and expand collaborations with the Leicester BRC examining physiological and
     metabolic health outcomes. We will work to secure renewed NIHR funding for 2022-27. The
     future will see increased focus on impact by integrating exercise into chronic disease
     rehabilitation and management programmes/strategies. This work will complement our new
     Centre for Lifestyle Medicine and Behaviour (CLiMB). Supported by a £2.2M NIHR
     programme grant (2019-24), CLiMB (focusing on behaviour change) will identify and
     evaluate innovative health behaviour interventions and policies to prevent and treat chronic
     diseases.
 • Through NCSEM, facilitate greater interaction between clinicians and academics, greater
     incorporation of exercise into treatment strategies, and greater integration of our
     biosciences work in molecular biology and cellular physiology. Capabilities will be enhanced
     by Excellence100 appointments including Davies, whose work (supported by a 2019
     Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard Award, £100k) will improve understanding of how
     tissues within the musculoskeletal system communicate and regenerate.
 • The Defence and National Rehabilitation Centre (DNRC) programme comprises the
     National Rehabilitation Centre (NRC, £90M) and the Defence Medical Rehabilitation Centre
     (DMRC, £300M), recently opened just outside Loughborough. We will work with DNRC and
     partners to scope out Education and Training provision and Research and Innovation
     strategy, to deliver a step-change in rehabilitation patient outcomes nationally and
     internationally. This work will be complemented by grant funding such as the recently
     awarded Versus Arthritis Foundation Fellowship (Skarabot, £279k, 2021-24) to inform
     rehabilitation strategies for knee osteoarthritis.

 Priority 2: Participation in Sport and Exercise
 We aim to enhance participation in all sectors of society to improve health, wellbeing, and socio-
 economic outcomes, notably in marginalised and underrepresented groups. For example:
 • Critical analyses of the political, economic, social, and cultural issues in the development and
     sport sector will include assessing the social return on investment in grassroots sport
     nationally, in Europe and beyond, in both formal competitive sport and charitable provision
     for disadvantaged communities. This priority will include the work of Excellence100

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     appointment, Pullen, under her AHRC award focusing on gender and disability stigma in the
     dialogue around sport.
 •   We will explore contemporary issues concerning: sport integrity e.g., corruption and good
     governance; child protection; professional sport as a site for implementing health, social,
     economic, and environmentally sensitive changes in behaviour; and extension of these
     social benefits to socially excluded groups e.g., BAME, disability and LGBT+
     communities, and vulnerable young people (e.g., those in care).
 •   With strong support from the UK’s UNESCO Office, we have applied to host a UNESCO
     Chair in Sport, Physical Activity and Education for Development. The Chair will
     undertake research, enterprise activity, and advisory work on policy and practice, particularly
     in collaboration with colleagues in the ‘global South’, in the areas of sport, physical activity
     and education. It will build on our global reputation and engage over 20 academic staff
     across the University.

 Priority 3: Sport Performance
 We aim to improve performance in sport at all levels and in all segments of the population. This
 will include enhancing collaborations with Loughborough’s Sports Development Centre
 (responsible for sport participation on campus from recreational to elite level) and NGBs based
 on campus. For example:
 • Optimising athlete performance. A new focus will be applied environmental physiology, for
      training and competing in extremes of heat, humidity and/or hypoxia, using the hypobaric
      bedrooms in the new Elite Athlete Centre and Hotel. This will draw on the expertise of
      Excellence100 appointment L.Taylor who was part of an international collaboration (involving
      ten countries) at the 2019 IAAF Doha World Championships demonstrating the importance
      of body temperature management and body cooling interventions prior to prolonged
      endurance events in the heat.
 • We will engage with AI, data analytics and machine learning expertise on campus to
      provide novel insights into sport performance that can inform policy and practice. This will
      utilise the University’s High Performance Computing facility.
 • Studies on participation of transgender (intersex, trans, non-binary) people in sport were
      initiated by our Gender and Sport mini-CDT (10 staff, 6 PhD students, 2018-23) and will
      begin to influence policy in this sensitive area and promote inclusivity.

 1.5 Open research environment
 The University has been a pioneer of the ‘Open Agenda’, actively supporting Repositories for
 text-based outputs (since 2005) and data (since 2015), working beyond funder (including
 REF2021) open access requirements. Our landmark Open Research Position Statement
 committed to depositing from 2020 the full-text of 100% of our primary research outputs in our
 now unified Research Repository. The Unit has met its target by depositing 100% of 2020
 journal articles. Over just the past year, Unit outputs in the Research Repository have generated
 over 800,000 views and over 300,000 downloads. Our commitment to open data is exemplified
 by the International Children’s Accelerometry Database – a unique global dataset supporting
 physical activity research in children (2019 CALIBRE Open Research Awards finalist, Esliger).

 1.6 A culture of research integrity
 The University’s Ethical Policy Framework is the foundation of the Unit’s culture of research
 integrity. Research leaders are accountable for ensuring adherence to this Framework in
 respect of the nature, conduct, dissemination and foreseeable end-use of research and the
 behaviour of researchers. They are responsible for conducting ethics checks on all proposed
 projects and obtaining necessary approvals via dedicated Ethics sub-committees (human
 participants, human tissue) or from the main Ethics Committee (philanthropic funding, military
 applications, animal testing, all other issues). Potentially controversial research projects receive
 additional scrutiny, initially by the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research), e.g., James’ work with Bridge
 Farm Nurseries on cannabidiol to modify energy balance and exercise performance and
 recovery.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Unit staff are integral to the University’s endeavours, chairing the Human Participants Sub-
 Committee (Mastana 2012-19, Lindley 2019-). The Unit also employs a Regulatory and
 Compliance Manager who is responsible for supporting the work of the Human Participants Sub-
 Committee and ensuring compliance with all Human Tissue Authority (HTA) regulated activity as
 well as data protection.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy
 All academic staff contribute to teaching, research and enterprise activities. We expect and
 incentivise collegiality from the earliest career stages and, as careers develop, we expect
 broader leadership contributions. Academic staff have open-ended contracts, while research
 staff are normally on fixed-term contracts related to projects in line with sector norms.

 Since REF2014, the University approach to recruiting excellent staff at all career stages, from
 postdoctoral and early career researchers (ECRs) through mid-career and senior roles, has
 radically changed, driven by the University Strategy and beginning with the ‘Excellence100’
 campaign in which we recruited 20 new academic staff members, a Vice-Chancellor’s
 Research Fellow (Markey) - five-year ECR posts - and three Doctoral Prize Fellows (Gallichio,
 Skarabot and Rimington) - two-year posts for outstanding researchers less than two years post-
 PhD.

 Building on Excellence100, recruitment to established posts is now conducted through biannual
 recruitment rounds, managed centrally but with significant School input, rather than piecemeal
 replacement hires. With excellence as the primary criterion, these rounds promote improved
 succession planning, deliver better international recruitment and improve diversity. Overall, Unit
 FTE has increased by 26.8 (almost 40%) to 94.9FTE (41% reporting female gender, 71%
 reporting white ethnicity) including 8FTE to create ISB, with two external professorial
 appointments to provide leadership. The profile is now: 18 professors, 8 readers, 33 senior
 lecturers, 34 lecturers, 3 Research Associates / Fellows and one Clinical Academic Assistant.

 Part-time working is welcome and six academic staff work part-time (2M/4F). For example,
 Bishop has worked part-time for 15 years during which she has progressed from Lecturer to
 Professor, supported by protected time for research and participation on the Aurora leadership
 programme.

 On our staffing and recruitment policy, the International Expert Review Panel concluded: “The
 size, scope and quality of (the growing) faculty is impressive and the dividends in the form of
 broad recognition internationally are now being reaped, not only in areas of performance
 enhancement and sports policy, but increasingly in addressing exercise, physical activity and
 health agenda, across the lifespan and within different populations”.

 Succession planning is a regular consideration at School Leadership Team meetings. A variety
 of positions provide developmental opportunities, e.g., Research Theme leads, Director of
 Doctoral Programmes (DDP), each with deputies, that prepare Unit staff for more senior roles.
 Our strategy is for high retention rates and a high proportion of research leaders to be
 homegrown (including the ADR and ADE). For example, 12 professorial staff departures since
 REF2014 (mainly retirements) have been replaced by 11 internal promotions (including the ADR
 and ADE) and 2 new recruits.

 2.2 Staff development strategy
 Loughborough’s Organisational Development offers a wide spectrum of training opportunities
 and support for staff at all career stages. Courses range from earliest stages (Welcome to
 Loughborough) through essential training (Information security training, Unconscious Bias) to
 training for staff becoming senior managers (Coaching conversations for managers, Recruitment
 and selection). All staff involved in research and impact can access comprehensive training and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 development, especially technical staff, several of whom have engaged in the Midlands
 Innovation TALENT programme to support Higher Education technicians. Staff can access
 budgets to support research consumables, conference attendance and travel, with priority given
 to early career staff.

 All academics are expected to obtain Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA).
 For new lecturers, this is integral to their dedicated development programme. More experienced
 colleagues are supported through our `Recognition of Experienced Practitioners' scheme.

 2.2.1 Mentoring
 Mentoring is offered to all staff, with training provided by the University. The Leicester BRC also
 offers mentorship training. Over the last 3 years, 52 academic, research and technical staff
 across all grades (33F/19M) received mentorship, delivered by 41 academic staff (22F/19M)
 primarily at Reader or Professor level. The programme supports diverse outcomes such as
 promotions, development of major grant bids, significant publications, and fellowship
 applications.

 2.2.2. Support and integration of early career researchers into the Unit’s research culture
 Following the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 the University provides structured support to postdoctoral researchers for career progression
 and development, including preparation of applications for funding. This was recognised by the
 European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award (since 2010, renewed after external
 review every 4 years). This includes ‘Recognition of Teaching for Researchers (ROTOR)’ and
 ‘Associate Teaching Pathway’ programmes which allow postdoctoral researchers to achieve
 Associate/FHEA status. Workshops (e.g., grant funding, fellowships, building networks) are
 provided for all staff, including postdocs.

 During the REF period, the Unit employed 173 research staff i.e., research assistants /
 associates, translational scientists and Excellence100 Fellows, including 36 currently in post.
 Research staff are fully embedded in our Research Themes. They attend School seminars,
 Athena Swan events, social events and a wide variety of training activities. Postdoctoral
 researchers bring new ideas and contribute to the conceptualisation and writing of research
 grants, organise and conduct research studies, assist with supervision of doctoral researchers,
 present data during research talks and public lectures, develop new research methods and
 techniques, and organise research and impact days. In doing so, they enrich research culture
 and academic vitality. 12 of our postdocs took permanent academic posts at Loughborough (11
 SSEHS, 1 LUL), including 3 (of 4) of the Excellence100 Research Fellows.

 2.2.3 New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP)
 All new lecturers are guided by an experienced and trained academic colleague who acts as
 Adviser. NLP (formerly academic probation) was substantially revised in 2017 and includes the
 full spectrum of research and impact activity (publication, funding applications, collaboration,
 public engagement, non-academic partnerships). New lecturers have a reduced workload in
 teaching and administration (33, 50 and 67% of School norms in consecutive years), which
 enables the establishment of a full academic profile in research, teaching and impact at a
 manageable pace. In addition to an extensive training programme leading to FHEA, the New
 Lecturer meets four times annually with their Adviser though many more informal meetings are
 the norm. New Lecturers are allocated a University-funded PhD studentship within their first two
 years, for co-supervision with an experienced colleague. Supervision is a requirement to pass
 the programme, alongside a minimum expectation on research output production, and the
 submission of at least one substantial grant application. During the assessment period, 33 staff
 competed NLP and 12 have subsequently been promoted. 10 staff are currently completing
 NLP.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.4 Mid-career and senior staff
 Regular career progression events are provided on ‘route to senior lecturer / professor’ etc. and
 Deans hold one-to-one meetings with staff who have been in their grade for at least three years
 to discuss targeted support to develop potential for promotion. CALIBRE’s Research Leaders
 Programme emphasises leadership broadly, beyond traditional Associate / Dean roles. Folland
 attended this programme, implementing a restructure of the School’s Research Themes and
 M.King (now ADE) also attended, focusing on Loughborough’s international strategy. Both were
 subsequently promoted from reader to professor.

 2.2.5 Performance and Development Review (PDR), reward and promotion
 All post-probationary staff have an annual PDR. This University scheme was totally updated in
 2017. A supportive one-to-one discussion between the reviewee and a trained reviewer reflects
 on achievements over the past year and agrees performance and developmental objectives
 across the full range of activities including CALIBRE-aligned goals for research and impact
 activity. New PDR is a transparent way to recognise performance exceeding expectations with
 additional financial reward, overseen by a Senior Review Group. The new scheme has
 particularly benefitted our technicians and research staff for whom a rigorous developmental
 discussion was previously sporadic and consideration for reward a rarity. In 2019, 34% of
 academic staff, 34% of postdoctoral researchers, and 35% of technicians in the Unit were
 identified as ‘exceeding expectations’ and considered for reward.

 PDR also identifies promotion candidates. In SSEHS, the Human Resources Advisory Group
 advises the Dean on promotion cases and proactively engages with staff. In 2016, the University
 revised the criteria for academic promotion (Senior Lecturer and Reader / Professor), to
 ensure that the research components align with the University Strategy and CALIBRE. Evidence
 for cases can be based on research, teaching, enterprise (impact) or any combination to
 encourage balanced portfolios of work. Promotion panels consider statements from applicants
 describing how personal circumstances, such as caring responsibilities, may have affected their
 profile. Since 2014, Unit staff received 47 promotions (21F/26M) comprising 23 to Senior
 Lecturer, 13 to Reader, 11 to Professor.

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) considerations are prominent in PDR and Reward
 including within reviewer training (e.g., unconscious bias). EDI monitoring is routine for
 promotion and a standing item on School committee agendas.

 2.2.6 Research and impact leave
 Leave is available in the form of School and University Fellowships, providing up to 12 months
 outside regular workload to pursue agreed programmes. Submissions are often a consequence
 of PDR discussions and diversity is routinely monitored. Since 2014, three Unit staff received
 School Fellowships (2F/1M) and two received University Fellowships (1F/1M):
 • Hogervorst collaborated with Alzheimer’s Research UK on lifestyle change for reducing
     dementia risk.
 • Varela-Silva received Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation funding to lead a project examining
     healthy birth, growth and development in children and adolescents in Guatemala.
 • Harwood worked on parenting in youth sport and the psychosocial development of young
     athletes, supporting two impact case studies. His work led to two sets of strategic
     partnerships: firstly, with the International Tennis Federation and Lawn Tennis Association
     and secondly with multiple Icelandic organisations (Reykjavik University and the Icelandic
     Football Association, National Olympic and Sports Association, National Youth Association,
     and Gymnastics Federation).
 • Sandford shared her British Academy funded ‘Right to Be Active’ research (examining the
     sport/physical activity experiences of looked-after children) with various stakeholders e.g.,
     care experienced youth, practitioners, charities, NGBs, local authority staff and foster carers.
     She was invited to present the research at the All-Party Parliamentary Group for looked after
     children and care leavers (2019) and engaged with key organisations e.g., Become,
     StreetGames, Public Health England and Ofsted.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Jowett based herself at UK Sport and worked with the Head of Coaching Development and
     the UK Sport team of coach developers, developing the ‘Women in High Performance
     Coaching’ programme (with the aim to increase female coaches’ representation to 25% (from
     10%) in the 2024 Olympic and Paralympics Games). As a result, Jowett was nominated for
     UK Sport’s Victor Awards in 2020.

 2.3 Postgraduate Research (PGR) Students
 A key ambition over the past decade has been to enhance the research environment for PGR
 students. PGR processes and procedures are centrally coordinated by the Doctoral College and
 delivered in Schools by the Director of Doctoral Programmes (DDP) and ADR. PGR students
 actively contribute to development of their own community. Each School has elected PGR
 representatives who meet regularly. An overall lead, the Doctoral Researcher President, sits on
 both the Doctoral College Sub-Committee and the University Research Committee ensuring the
 views of PGR students are represented at institutional level. As well as engaging with PGR reps,
 participation in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) and the Doctoral College
 Wellbeing Survey ensure our decisions are based on the real experiences of our community.
 The Unit awarded 217 PhD degrees, averaging 31/year, almost 10% up on REF2014.

 2.3.1 Funding
 The School attracts funding to maintain its PGR population (over 200 including part-time
 students) via University scholarships (33%), partner organisations including NIHR and UKRI
 (36%), and high-quality self-funded students (31%).

 The Doctoral College is responsible for an annual strategic investment exceeding £9M in
 scholarships across all Schools. Schools are responsible for the strategic distribution of these
 scholarships to priority areas and with general aims of facilitating interdisciplinary collaboration
 and ensuring that ECRs gain experience in PGR supervision. CALIBRE’s Adventure programme
 supports mini-CDTs on a competitive basis and the Unit has been successful in securing mini-
 CDTs in Next Generation Prosthetics, and Gender and Sport.

 External funding is secured by working in partnership with a wide array of organisations and
 involves a combination of fully funded and match-funded studentships. Examples of funders
 include Addenbrooke’s Charitable Trust, Badminton World Federation, Bradford Institute for
 Health Research, Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, Defence Medical Services, ECB,
 EIS, Kids Run Free, National Autistic Society, Saudi Arabian Government, Sporting
 Communities, St Andrews Healthcare, Taiwan Ministry of Education, UK Athletics, UK Sport,
 University of Kelaniya, University of Malta and World Tennis Federation.

 Funding is also provided via the NIHR Leicester BRC, the Versus Arthritis Centre for Sport,
 Exercise and Osteoarthritis, the Peter Harrison Centre for Disability Sport, the NCSEM and our
 EPSRC/MRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Regenerative Medicine. Loughborough is also one
 of the six universities which comprise the Midlands Graduate School ESRC Doctoral Training
 Partnership in which ‘Sport and Exercise’ is a dedicated pathway, established by the Unit in
 2017. The Unit also leads a British Council scheme with historically disadvantaged universities in
 South Africa.

 2.3.2 Recruitment
 Studentships are advertised on our website and social media channels, and on sites such as
 jobs.ac.uk and FindaPhD.com. Studentships are awarded competitively after advertisement and
 an interview selection process. Individual applicants with self-funding or holding a personal
 scholarship are encouraged to apply and develop proposals with potential academic
 supervisors. In recent years, to promote recruitment of self-funded students and those holding
 personal scholarships, pre-formed, but unfunded, PhD projects have been advertised. A
 minimum upper second-class first degree in a relevant field is required but many incoming
 students have Master’s degrees. International students are required to have a minimum IELTS
 score of 6.5 overall.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Typically, 45 PGR students are recruited each year, of which roughly 25% are from outside the
 UK/EU. Across the REF period, ratios have been 41/59 identifying as female/male, reaching
 51/49 F/M in 2019-20, with 63% identifying as white.

 2.3.3 Monitoring and support mechanisms
 New PGR students complete a range of formal and social induction activities. These include
 separate induction meetings, with the supervisors (two supervisors per student), with the DDP
 and with the Doctoral College. They are allocated a ‘buddy’, an existing PGR student, who acts
 as an ongoing mentor. PGR students are assigned to a Research Theme and have an initial
 tutorial with a Deputy DDP to provide an independent point of contact for advice. Students have
 at least one formal meeting with their supervisors each month to track progress and
 engagement. Records of these meetings are maintained by our electronic system, Co-Tutor.
 Additional meetings are held when necessary.

 The progress of all new students is reviewed at 6-months and then annually based on
 submission of a report and subsequent review meeting. The 6-month review is conducted by a
 Deputy DDP. Annual reviews are conducted by an Independent Reviewer. Progress boards are
 held quarterly, chaired by the DDP. Records of PGR progress boards are maintained centrally,
 re-registration requires a satisfactory review outcome. Supporting PGRs to submit within their
 funded period is a high priority.

 Research students can take a leave of absence for various reasons e.g., sickness, parental
 responsibilities, caring responsibilities.

 2.3.4 Skills Development
 From its ‘Graduate House’ home, which provides social and workspace for PGR students, the
 Doctoral College offers over 200 events annually, from induction and international orientations to
 transferable skills and employability training to meet the requirements of the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Major events include the annual research conference and summer
 showcase, and the ‘Café Academique’ forum to debate emerging research ideas. Further
 specialist support is available from the Mathematics Learning Support Centre, English Language
 Support Centre, Student Advice Centre, and the Careers Network.

 Within the Unit, PGR students have copious opportunities for training, skills development and
 networking via the Research Themes. Students have opportunities to present their work
 including poster (year 2) and oral (year 3) presentations. The Leicester BRC, via the Academic
 and Clinical Excellence Group, provides PGRs with additional bi-monthly bespoke training in
 health research (e.g., PPIE, Good Clinical Practice) and opportunities to present and learn via
 student-led seminars. Students are encouraged to submit their work for presentation at external
 conferences with travel and accommodation budgets provided for all students. Additional funding
 is available for research consumables and training. Students are invited to monthly networking
 coffee mornings with leading research staff. PGR reps are provided with a budget to organise
 social and networking activities. Training and support of PGR students within Schools is
 managed by the PGR sub-committee chaired by the DDP. In the Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey 2019, overall satisfaction of Unit PGR students was 83%, above the national
 average for all subjects and for Sports Science.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 EDI is integral to the Unit’s staffing and recruitment policy and succession planning. Recruitment
 advertisements use positive role models and promote family friendly policies including part-time
 working. All interviewers undertake mandatory training including unconscious bias, and single
 gender panels are not permitted.

 We are committed to addressing BAME, disability and gender inequalities in science and
 improving career progression for those with all protected characteristics. SSEHS attained the
 Athena SWAN Silver Award in 2012 (renewed in 2016 and again in 2020). Staff achievements


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 are recognised through annual Athena Swan Awards with categories such as Inspirational
 Leadership, Emerging Leader, Supporting Positive Developments, Research Assistant /
 Associate / Fellow of the Year. Two female academics are sponsored biennially to attend the
 AdvanceHE Aurora leadership programme. Since 2014, the proportion of female staff at Reader
 level has increased from 31% to 50% and at Professor level from 19% to 39%. Our ethnic
 demographic remains predominantly white which we will continue to address through our
 positive action plan.

 Flexible and remote working is supported, subject to agreement with the Dean, to promote
 and support wellbeing, as it has been for many years. Key meetings are scheduled 10am-4pm to
 support caring responsibilities. Lecture capture is used for training and staff meetings for staff
 unable to attend. Remote working is facilitated via the VPN (with secure multifactor
 authentication) that provides access to all University online resources. Our supporting
 infrastructure has eased the transition to effective home working during the COVID-19 pandemic
 during which we have seen just how effective flexible and remote working can be.

 Colleagues preparing for maternity or adoption leave are supported to attend classes and
 appointments. University funding is available to cover colleagues taking family leave, and those
 on leave can take up to ten Keeping-in-Touch days to attend meetings or important events
 during their leave. Towards the end of any long-term leave periods, including sick leave, staff are
 offered a phased return to work or a flexible return with, whenever possible, workload
 adjustments during the first 12 months. Funding is available for staff with caring
 responsibilities to cover e.g., the travel and accommodation costs of their children where
 national/international conference attendance would be otherwise difficult.

 Loughborough University’s Equal Opportunities Code of Practice provides explicit focus on
 supporting staff with protected characteristics so that they can achieve their potential while
 at the same time ensuring their well-being. A Reader within the Unit who is registered as blind
 has been proactively supported to ensure that appropriate technology is in place for him to
 undertake his role. EDI data on funding applications and successes is monitored so that
 strategies can be adopted to counter any trends indicating that groups with protected
 characteristics are disadvantaged.

 All Schools have Wellbeing Advisors who can be contacted by staff and PGR students for
 support and our Employee Assistance Programme operates a 24/7 confidential helpline.

 2.5 Equality and diversity issues in the construction of the REF submission
 The University Research Committee created the REF Code of Practice (CoP) Working Group
 in October 2018 with diverse membership. All submission preparations were conducted in
 accordance with the CoP and subject to Equality Impact Assessments. Our Unit submission
 team comprised four men and two women. All members underwent REF-specific Equality and
 Diversity training.

 Forty Unit academics (24M/16F) contributed to the peer review of outputs. Our outputs
 selection and assessment processes were in line with Loughborough’s Responsible Metrics
 Policy. To ensure fair, consistent and transparent selection, we identified outputs that convey the
 most original, significant and rigorous work produced by the School’s current or former staff. Our
 School submission was subject to Equality Impact Assessments, considering gender, maternity
 leave, ethnicity and ECR status, which revealed no bias.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding strategies
 The delivery of our strategic research objectives at the level of ambition we set for ourselves
 could not be achieved without significant research funding. ADR and ADE coordinate the funding
 strategy in which Research Themes identify funding priorities. Research grant applications are


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 peer reviewed internally by a colleague with relevant expertise and by the ADR to ensure they
 are of the highest quality prior to submission. Our Centres are also fundamental to our strategy,
 acting as focal points for attracting research and impact funding.

 Since 2014, the Unit has generated over £18M in research funding. This has come from a wide
 variety of sources including research councils (£1.8M, 10%), UK based charities (£4.8M, 27%),
 UK Central Government (£4.7M, 26%), UK industry (£2.5M, 14%), EU (£1M, 5%), and various
 non-EU sources (£3.3M, 18%). This includes 4 research councils (EPSRC, ESRC, MRC and
 AHRC) and national governing bodies of sport. We place particular emphasis on developing and
 maintaining relationships with governing bodies of sport and this is facilitated by collaborations
 with organisations on our campus at SportPark. Partnerships with industry are facilitated by the
 Unit’s ADRs and ADEs who ensure a coordinated approach in response to partnership requests
 from industry or Unit-led overtures to potential industry partners. Our links with charities have
 been facilitated and strengthened with in kind support to projects from our Research Centres.

 In Sport Performance, we used our extensive partnerships with sporting organisations and
 national governing bodies to secure funding from multiple organisations e.g., ECB, EIS, Football
 Association. In disability sport, we continued our established partnership with the Peter Harrison
 Foundation (£1.2M since 2014, V.Tolfrey) and consequently were able to attract funding from a
 wider variety of Paralympic sports organisations e.g., British Triathlon, GB Wheelchair Rugby.
 High quality outputs included a Neurology paper (2017) on exercise guidelines for spinal cord
 injury. Our sport and exercise nutrition research attracted funding mainly from industry, to
 examine how nutrition influences performance and health. Examples include research on novel
 amino acid mixtures to optimise the composition of sports drinks (Entrinsic Beverage Company
 LLC, £575k, PI James), sleep architecture in athletes (Rousselot BV, £207k, PI Clifford), dietary
 nitrate supplementation and resistance exercise performance (Herbalife Europe Ltd, £181k, PI
 Bailey), and the potential of cannabidiol to modify energy balance and exercise performance and
 recovery (Bridge Farm Nurseries, £149k, PI James).

 Our Lifestyle for Health and Wellbeing Theme was very focussed on the rehabilitation agenda
 and secured funding from the research councils and a variety of charities. EPSRC funding
 supported work in molecular biology, including proof of concept work using our newly acquired
 MRI scanner, while MRC awards funded interventions to decrease sedentary behaviour in young
 adults at risk of type 2 diabetes and inactive older adults. Our partnership with the Defence
 Medical Services and the translational potential of our expertise in Exercise as Medicine resulted
 in novel and impactful projects funded by the NIHR and various UK charities focusing on chronic
 disease including the British Heart Foundation and Diabetes UK. Our new Centre for Lifestyle
 Medicine and Behaviour (CLiMB) is supported by a programme grant (NIHR, £2.2M, 2019-24,
 Co-I Elsiger) titled ‘Snacktivity to promote physical activity and reduce future risk of disease in
 the population’. Focusing on behaviour change strategies, CLiMB will allow us to implement
 findings from some of our charity funded work. For example, J.King (Diabetes UK, £15k, 2018-
 20) initiated new activity in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) with ongoing work
 investigating the effects of exercise on hepatokines and potential links between NAFLD and type
 2 diabetes. Additional NIHR funding (Clemes, £627k, 2017-20) allowed us to investigate the
 clinical and cost effectiveness of a Structured Health Intervention For Truckers (The SHIFT
 Study).

 Under the Participation in Sport and Exercise Theme, researchers received ESRC support for
 work in Sport, Development and Peace as well as work promoting independence in people with
 dementia. For example, Giulianotti obtained two major ESRC research grants in the field of
 ‘Sport for Development and Peace’:
 • ‘Sport for a Better World? A Social Scientific Investigation of the Sport for Development and
    Peace Sector’ (2014-17, £332k)
 • ‘New Development Frontiers? The Role of Youth, Sport and Cultural Interventions’, (2017-
    19, £250k)



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The projects investigated the role of sport in promoting the personal and social development of
 young people in eight countries (Cape Verde, Jamaica, Kosovo, Nepal, Rwanda, Sri Lanka,
 Timor Leste, Zambia). Project outcomes included hosting the first multi-stakeholder Sport for
 Development and Peace events in three nations, which privileged the voices of marginalised
 young people, advising national governments on developing youth and sport strategies, and
 delivering reports to NGOs with recommendations on improving strategies and practices. The
 projects were supported and guided by major stakeholders (e.g., Commonwealth Secretariat,
 UN Office of Sport for Development and Peace, and national ministries). With her AHRC
 funding, (£199k, 2020), Pullen is addressing ‘Gendered representations of disability: Equality,
 empowerment and marginalisation in Paralympic media’.

 Theme members were also funded by various charities with a common goal of improving life for
 marginalised groups e.g., the role of sport for preventing youth crime (StreetGames), exercise
 and sleep as medicine in a secure mental health setting (St Andrews Healthcare), increasing
 engagement with physical education in primary school children (Youth Sport Trust), and
 representation of ethnic minorities and women in leadership and coaching positions in football
 (Football Association). Downward’s funding from the Health Foundation (£200k, 2018-19)
 initiated a two-year longitudinal study of how a person’s health can affect their economic
 outcomes (e.g., job satisfaction, income and perspective on their own financial situation) and
 their social outcomes (e.g., their relationship with their partner and perceptions of their own
 neighbourhood). The findings will help policymakers, from areas such as the NHS and the
 Government, implement future strategies.

 The funding portfolio includes the prestigious £11.6M NIHR Leicester BRC (2017-2022, £1.4M
 to the Unit) which is a consortium endeavour with Leicester’s Hospitals and University of
 Leicester. The Centre has three main themes including Lifestyle for which Stensel is BRC Lead.
 This award continued a collaboration initiated as the Leicester-Loughborough Biomedical
 Research Unit (BRU; 2012-17). Together, the BRU and BRC have produced high quality
 outputs and impact involving collaboration with clinicians to integrate exercise and physical
 activity behaviours into prevention and management strategies for chronic diseases. Examples
 include:
 • Journal of the American Society of Nephrology (2014) – compelling evidence that walking
     exercise is safe with regard to immune and inflammatory responses and has the potential to
     be an effective anti-inflammatory therapy in pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease (CKD). This
     informed the development of Renal Association Guidelines on Exercise and Lifestyle for
     people with CKD to be published in 2021.
 • Diabetes Care (2017) – demonstrating improved glycaemic control after walking and
     standing interventions in postmenopausal women at increased risk of developing diabetes
     due to impaired glucose tolerance.

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The Research and Enterprise Office (REO) supports our research and impact ambitions by
 alerting Unit staff to funding opportunities, guiding development of applications, supporting
 costing, developing collaboration agreements, protecting IP and know-how, and providing legal
 advice. Research Development Managers (RDM) work particularly closely with staff, directly
 assisting with drafts of applications, preparing letters of support, and liaising with the funder,
 supporting large awards like the NIHR programme grant `Snacktivity’ but also smaller but still
 important submissions such as the Rank Prize (£20k, 2017) awarded to Martin investigating
 amino acid metabolism in ageing muscle cells and a Thalidomide Trust Award (£61k, 2019) to
 Papathomas for research promoting physical activity in thalidomide survivors. The REO also
 provides targeted skills training to aid Researcher Development, particularly by supporting
 three CALIBRE elements: the Research Leaders programme, the Doctoral College and the
 Institute of Advanced Studies. The Research Leaders programme provides extensive support
 for Research Fellowship applicants, including interview preparation and a mock panel;
 Skarabot’s successful Versus Arthritis Foundation Fellowship (‘Arthrogenic muscle inhibition and
 impaired function in knee osteoarthritis’, £279k) starts shortly.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The support of Partnership Development Managers from REO has been critical for our impact
 work, while the REO Commercialisation Team has also facilitated impact work such as
 Jowett’s Tandem relationship tool (assessing the effectiveness of coach / athlete relationships),
 Cushion’s Coach Analysis Intervention System (an online platform enabling coaches to analyse
 their coaching behaviour), Plateau’s disordered eating in athletes online course (used by
 Scottish Athletics and Mental health charities including Mind), and Yilmaz’s Professional
 Certificate for Sports Agents programme (which has included work with FIFA). The REO Quality
 and Visibility team have spearheaded our drive to increase open access publishing and
 responsible use of metrics, to enhance the quality and visibility of our work. The Legal Services
 team have provided support that has been particularly important for industrially funded research.

 In SSEHS, the Technical Resources Manager is supported by a Senior Technician who assists
 with management of the technical team and ensures health, safety and environmental
 compliance including equipment maintenance. The Team has six areas of focus: Biochemistry,
 Exercise Physiology, Physiology, Biological Sciences, Biomechanics and Motor Control, and
 Sports Science and Psychology. An additional Technical Officer leads on Electronics support.

 Among 40 administrative staff supporting the Unit are a Regulatory and Compliance Manager,
 who coordinates ethical approval processes, HTA activities and data protection, a Regulatory
 and Safety (Biological and Chemistry) Administrator, who conducts HTA audits for
 traceability and consent, and oversees administration of Standard Operating Procedures and
 risk assessments, and an Ethics, Regulatory and Compliance Administrator who assists with
 the processing of ethical approval applications.

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Abundant infrastructure supports our research and impact work from test tube to trackside and
 bench to bedside. This includes facilities for cell work in laboratories to whole body research in
 our plentiful sports amenities, in local schools and in clinical wards, encompassing our Midlands
 and London campuses as well as shared facilities with partners in the Leicester BRC, the DNRC
 and beyond. The uniqueness and quality of our facilities was acknowledged by the International
 Expert Review Panel who noted “the scale of infrastructure and … the agenda they lead are truly
 world-class”.

 Laboratory space and equipment. 94 research laboratories on our Midlands campus (covering
 4246m2) support work in the Lifestyle for Health and Wellbeing and Sport Performance Themes.
 Work in cell and molecular biology is resourced by six analytical laboratories (for protein, DNA
 and clinical chemistry needs), three cell culture laboratories, a biochemistry laboratory and a
 molecular biology laboratory. These are equipped with tissue culture and cryostorage facilities, a
 real time PCR system, a HPLC system, a flow cytometer, and an automated benchtop clinical
 chemistry analyser. These facilities support work of staff seeking to better understand acute and
 chronic responses to exercise at a molecular level with a view to optimising performance,
 recovery, and rehabilitation processes.

 For physiology and nutrition work, we have seven exercise physiology laboratories, a nutrition
 laboratory, three research kitchens, a nutrition cubicle and two nutrition observation rooms.
 These support our collaborations with the food and nutrition industry seeking to better
 understand interactions between exercise and appetite with a view to ameliorating obesity.
 Crucial to this work is assessment of body composition which is enabled by two anthropometric /
 body composition laboratories, an immersion tank for underwater weighing, a COSMED Bod
 Pod body composition analyser, and a DEXA scanner. In addition, our 3T MRI scanner has
 enabled the development of new (to Loughborough) techniques e.g., for accurately quantifying
 visceral adipose tissue and for assessing central (brain) appetite responses using the BOLD
 (blood oxygenation level dependent) technique. The Unit also houses four climatic chambers for
 research investigating exercise responses in the heat, cold and at simulated high altitude.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our biomechanics and motor control researchers have access to a wide range of software,
 equipment, and facilities to allow a broad range of experimental and theoretical research. These
 include three biomechanics laboratories containing eight force plates, four Vicon motion analysis
 systems (totalling over 60 cameras – both fixed and mobile systems), a Computer Assisted
 Rehabilitation Environment balance platform, numerous high-speed cameras, wireless
 electromyography systems, accelerometers and inertial measurement units. For theoretical
 research, staff can access Loughborough’s High-Performance Computing facility to enhance
 computer modelling techniques and capacity for assessing activities including cricket fast
 bowling, triple jump, gymnastics high bar, springboard diving, para long jump, sprinting, drop
 jumping, and gymnastic vaulting.

 Further facilities include two paediatric exercise physiology laboratories, three muscle function
 laboratories for assessment of neuromuscular performance, two wearables laboratories housing
 a wide range of physical activity tracking devices and a Polar team pro GPS player tracking
 system, an invasive procedures laboratory for muscle and fat biopsies, a sleep laboratory
 equipped with polysomnography technology, an extensively equipped Parasport laboratory
 including a large wheelchair specific treadmill and Vicon motion analysis system, and three
 psychology laboratories.

 Since 2014 approximately £3.3M has been spent on new equipment with notable purchases
 including MRI and DEXA scanners, a motion analysis system, a high-speed force treadmill, an
 eye tracking system, a bench top clinical chemistry analyser and mass spectrometry facilities.

 Unit staff can draw on the country’s largest concentration of world-class sporting facilities and
 sports performers from recreational level to Olympic Gold medallists and World Champions, all
 based at Loughborough. Facilities include:
 • Two state-of-the-art gyms for strength and conditioning research.
 • The Seb Coe High Performance Athletics Centre (with integrated force plate), Paula
     Radcliffe Athletics Track and Steve Backley National Throws Centre, for research in
     athletics.
 • A 50-metre swimming pool with instrumented starting blocks and camera system.
 • The National Cricket Performance Centre, with integrated force plate and video analysis
     system for performance and injury research.
 • The Loughborough University Stadium e.g., for GPS work during competitive football.
 • The Tennis Centre (home to the Lawn Tennis Association National Academy and Tennis
     Leicestershire) facilitating psychology work with coaches and parents.
 • The Gymnastics Centre with integrated force plate, Vicon motion analysis and video systems
     for performance and injury research.
 • The Badminton Centre (e.g., for Badminton World Federation funded research on the jump
     smash).
 • The Netball Centre, the Sir David Wallace Sports Hall, and an abundance of pitches for
     rugby, hockey, cricket and football.

 The University’s newly opened (2018) £7M Elite Athlete Centre and Hotel provides training
 camp and catering facilities for all athletes including those with disabilities. Twenty rooms have
 climate control able to provide altitude conditions up to 5000m, enabling athletes to “sleep high
 and train low”. The Centre includes specialist nutrition and recovery rooms. This facility provides
 an ideal opportunity for sport science academics to work with the Sports Development Centre,
 sport governing bodies and elite sports competitors to generate unique research into the
 potential benefits of chronic periods of exposure to high altitude environments. Potential benefits
 to be investigated include improved performance (particularly in endurance sports), accelerated
 rehabilitation from injury and potential health benefits (e.g., for weight control).




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our most significant research and impact activities have flourished through collaborations with
 world-leading Universities and end-user partners from the worlds of sport, exercise and health.
 These collaborations are facilitated by dedicated support, from our Senior Translation Scientist
 and Research Development Manager, by networking (sandpit) events, by inviting external
 speakers to present and interact with staff during research theme meetings, and by availability of
 pump-priming funds.

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 At the heart of our academic partnerships lies the NCSEM-East Midlands (Lewis (Dean) is
 Director). With Nottingham and Leicester Universities, University Hospitals of Leicester NHS
 Trust and Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, we are committed to education and the
 translation of research to accelerate improvement to the nation’s health and wellbeing. Six
 clinical PhD fellowships have been awarded to support NCSEM-East Midlands. For example, Dr
 Graham-Brown’s Fellowship allowed Bishop and Stensel to work with immunologists and
 clinicians at the University of Leicester (Profs Burton, McCann and Smith) demonstrating the
 potential of physical activity to improve cardiac function (findings in press with Kidney
 International). NCSEM is the foundation on which our participation in the Leicester /
 Loughborough BRC is built, as well as further collaborations regionally, nationally and
 internationally. Nationally, NCSEM-East Midlands is part of NCSEM-England, with additional
 hubs in London and Sheffield, which advises government and provides educational and clinical
 services. Internationally, NCSEM is an International Olympic Committee (IOC) Research
 Centre for the Prevention of Injury and Protection of Athlete Health (renewed in 2019 for a
 further 4-years, one of just 11 IOC Centres worldwide), linking the Unit to an international
 network of experts in sports injury and disease prevention and financial support.

 Regionally, NCSEM underpins our engagement with Midlands Innovation Health (MIH) which
 is focussed on a regional health and life sciences strategy. MIH is an initiative of the Midlands
 Innovation (MI) partnership comprising the 8 research-intensive universities in the Midlands:
 Aston, Birmingham, Cranfield, Keele, Leicester, Loughborough, Nottingham, and Warwick. The
 Unit is engaged in a range of MI projects including equipment sharing (e.g., accessing specialist
 microscopy facilities at University of Nottingham), the TALENT programme to raise the profile of
 HE technicians, and the MI Commercialisation of Research Accelerator, which gave an IP
 exploitation grant (2019) to develop online training for coaches addressing disordered eating in
 athletes. MIH facilitated the Midlands response to COVID-19 described in the report ‘Mobilising
 Research Excellence in the Midlands to Tackle COVID-19’ (authored with Midlands Health
 Alliance and Medilink Midlands). MIH is supported by the Midlands Engine and works closely
 with the Midlands Health Alliance which coordinates collaboration between the Midland’s NIHR
 BRCs and enables our researchers to access clinical spaces in Leicester and Nottingham.

 Nationally, we anticipate significant growth in our partnership with the Defence and National
 Rehabilitation Centre (DNRC) in the areas of injury prevention and management,
 musculoskeletal rehabilitation, concussion and the impact of exercise on immune function and
 infection risk. After signing an MoU with Defence Medical Services (2016) and with their recent
 opening, the National Rehabilitation Centre (NRC) announced (February 2020) Loughborough
 and University of Nottingham as leads of the NRC Academic Partnership (NCAP), comprising
 over 20 universities.

 Linked with the NRC agenda, the Versus Arthritis Centre for Sport, Exercise and
 Osteoarthritis Research (£5M, 2013-23) is a Unit collaboration with Nottingham University
 Hospitals NHS Trust (lead) and the Universities of Nottingham, Oxford, Southampton, Bath, and
 Leeds. Its remit extends from elite athletes (long-term impact on joints) to the prevention and
 care of osteoarthritis in the general population of recreational athletes and exercisers.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Partnership in the Leicester BRC also networks the Unit nationally, within the NIHR Diet,
 Activity and Research Translation (DART) Collaboration of 10 BRCs across England
 including Bristol, Cambridge, Guy’s & St Thomas, Imperial, Leicester, Manchester, Newcastle,
 Oxford, Southampton and UCLH. The DART collaboration (Stensel is a lead member) enhances
 the effectiveness of research conducted across the country in diet, nutrition, physical activity and
 sedentary behaviours. It has enabled the Unit to integrate its expertise in physical activity into
 multiple collaborative projects with clinicians, e.g., behaviour change techniques to improve
 dietary, physical activity and sedentary behaviours in families at increased risk of cardiovascular
 disease due to familial hypercholesterolaemia (published in BMJ Open, 2020, with Bristol).

 Our longstanding Peter Harrison Centre (PHC) for Disability Sport (V.Tolfrey leads) is also a
 magnet for international research collaborations. New initiatives have been launched with the
 University of Queensland on Para sport classification (e.g., wheelchair tennis and basketball
 impairment criteria) to ensure compliance with the International Paralympic Committee’s (IPC)
 Athlete Classification Code, with Harvard Medical School on spinal cord injury (SCI), and with
 University of British Columbia on exercise necessary to improve fitness and cardiometabolic
 health in adults with SCI. The Centre has hosted several esteemed visiting professors including
 Profs Martin Ginis (University of British Columbia), MacDonald (McMaster University) and van
 der Woude (Groningen University).

 Loughborough’s Institute of Advanced Studies also supports collaborations, bringing world-
 leading researchers to our campuses to participate in themed programmes:
 • Professor David Bishop from the Institute of Health and Sport at Victoria University, Australia
     was hosted for a Cycling Science Symposium organised by Ferguson (2019).
 • Professor Lee Thompson (Waseda University, Japan) and Professor Susan Brownell
     (University of Missouri, USA) attended an IAS ‘Sport and the Nation’ event organised by
     Bairner (2018).
 While international collaborations like these are routine for individual academics, our Research
 Centres are the cornerstones of our major collaborations and so we have focussed on these in
 this subsection.

 4.1.1 Key Research Users and Beneficiaries
 The Midlands campus is home to the largest concentration of sports governing bodies anywhere
 in the world, bringing a priceless benefit to our research and impact activity matched by the
 direct benefit to the partners themselves. Most are located on Loughborough University Science
 and Enterprise Park in SportPark, accommodating 15 sports organisations such as British
 Swimming (supporting Fletcher’s work on the psychology of performance excellence), the ECB
 (supporting M.King’s impact work with cricket), Activity Alliance (formerly English Federation of
 Disability Sport), British Wheelchair Basketball and British Triathlon (supporting V.Tolfrey’s
 impact work with Parasport), England Squash, the Institute of Sport and Recreation
 Management, the Institute of Swimming, Leicester-Shire & Rutland Sport, UK Sport, Volleyball
 England (supporting Cushion’s coach education work), and the Youth Sport Trust (supporting
 the physical education impact work of Harris and Cale). SportPark will shortly undergo a £6M
 expansion that will see UK Anti-Doping join its unique community. Loughborough is also home to
 the British Athletics National Performance Institute (supporting Bailey’s research focusing on
 physiological and nutritional interventions to enhance track and field performance). The
 International Expert Review Panel concluded that our research and impact activity “is facilitated
 by powerful support from the hosting of NGBs (of significance), Sporting Agencies and Centres
 on campus”.

 Of the many collaborations, the area of disability sport is the one to have grown the most since
 2014. The PHC is recognised by the parasport community as a worldwide centre of excellence,
 working with stakeholders such as the EIS, UK Sport, International Paralympic Committee,
 rehabilitation scientists at national spinal injury units (e.g., Stoke Mandeville), and organisations
 running international parasport events such as the International Triathlon Union, the International
 Wheelchair Rugby Federation and the International Wheelchair Tennis Federation. Chelsea


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Warr, (former) Director of Performance at UK Sport commented, “new knowledge emerging from
 the Centre’s vast research engine is always effectively translated and disseminated”.

 Individual Unit staff are trusted partners for a wide variety of sporting bodies, influencing their
 policy and practice while using insight gained to add to the Unit research environment. Examples
 include:
 • Cope was a consultant to the Premier League (2014), reviewing and evaluating the School
     Sport PE programme, and the Professional Footballers’ Association (2020), redeveloping
     the UEFA B (basic) Football Coaching course (mandatory qualification to coach in male
     professional football).
 • Mears’ work on risk factors for exercise-associated hyponatremia (abnormally low blood
     sodium levels) supported the guidelines of the International Institute of Race Medicine.
 • Barker is National Lead Sport Psychologist for Para Football with the Football Association.
 • Harwood conducts parent education work for the International Tennis Federation – 2300
     parents across 137 nations took its e-learning modules – and is a Player Development
     Advisory Panel Member for the Women’s Tennis Association.
 • ISB works with Chelsea Football Academy (training methodologies to reduce injury in elite
     footballers) and technology company PC23 who are developing a talent identification
     application called ‘AIScout’.
 • ISB is also working with the Oman Olympic Committee to develop the National Sport
     Strategy.

 Our honorary academic (25) and clinical (16) appointments are further important facilitators of
 collaboration. For example:
 • Honorary Clinical Professor Peirce is Medical Director for the ECB and co-supervises PGR
     work on vertebral adaptation and lumbar stress fracture in elite fast bowlers, and bone
     development in adolescent cricketers.
 • Honorary Clinical Professor Singh is Head of Pulmonary and Cardiac Rehabilitation at
     University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust and collaborates with Unit staff in
     cardiopulmonary rehabilitation for people with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
     (COPD).
 • Visiting Fellow Girardi is Research Manager at St Andrew’s Healthcare and facilitates work
     implementing physical activity interventions in secure mental health settings.

 4.1.2 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society
 Over 20,000 patients, from those with chronic conditions to elite athletes, have been treated at
 Loughborough’s NCSEM and offered exercise as an effective clinical alternative. Over 630
 research informed Continuing Professional Development sessions have been delivered to a
 wide range of practitioners, clinicians, academics, and allied health professionals. For example,
 ‘Exercise as Medicine’ seminars (delivered by academics) were provided for GPs and health
 care professionals across two days covering weight management, glucose regulation,
 cardiovascular disease risk, healthy ageing, mental health (depression and anxiety), cancer
 survivorship, motivation and adherence to physical activity, and the role of technology in
 supporting healthy lifestyle behaviours. Since 2014, the NCSEM has provided over 50 public
 lectures on topics related to sport, exercise and health. After moving to online seminars due to
 COVID-19, lectures have attracted almost 1800 live attendees with over 1100 subsequent views
 to date.

 Staff are also engaged with relevant educational organisations:
 • Giulianotti is a member of the scientific advisory group for Play International and the Swiss
    Academy for Development, using sport and play to empower disadvantaged children and
    young people to become healthy, educated and employed.
 • Cale has influenced physical education provision in schools through multiple roles
    (National Physical Education Expert Group, former Chair of the Association for Physical
    Education).


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Coates has worked with a variety of organisations (e.g., Cambridgeshire County Council,
     Derbyshire County Council, Nottinghamshire and Leicestershire Forest Education Network)
     evidencing the benefits of Forest Schools.

 4.1.3 Engaging with Diverse Communities and Publics
 Our public lecture series has covered diverse topics from ‘Sleep and Metabolic Health’ to ‘Social
 Determinants of Health’. In 2020, lectures focused on exercise, immune function, obesity, and
 COVID-19. Campaigns are run highlighting academic research e.g., Mental Health Awareness,
 Parents in Sport Week and Health Habits. The NCSEM hosts an outreach and engagement
 programme involving community stakeholders and a PPIE group. ISB has established a sport
 technology accelerator for SMEs that seek to identify technology solutions for sport and physical
 activity challenges; organisations working in sport analytics, eSports, broadcast technology,
 fitness, smart stadium, and fan engagement have participated.

 There are many examples of impactful contributions to sports organisations such as the
 incorporation of material into strategy documents and coaching manuals (psychological
 development of athletes in youth and para-football, cricket fast bowlers, cricket pitch lengths,
 BAME coaches), policy changes (para sport, physical education policy) and presentations to
 representatives from UEFA, national federations and national governing bodies (BAME
 coaches). Support for the development of these resources has been provided in the form of
 funding, intellectual input from our translational scientists and technical support from e-learning
 specialists.

 Staff are also engaged in grassroots organisations related to their academic disciplines. For
 example, Holley is a member of the East Midlands Hungry for Change Group investigating
 community solutions to food poverty. She also works with StreetGames Fit and Fed project
 providing holiday clubs to youth in disadvantaged communities, seeking to tackle inactivity,
 hunger and isolation.

 4.2 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 The Unit encourages such contributions. Numerous staff hold fellowships, including Academy
 of Social Sciences (Giulianotti), American College of Sports Medicine (Folland, L.Taylor),
 Association of Applied Sport Psychology (Harwood), BASES (Harwood, Spray, K.Tolfrey,
 V.Tolfrey), European College of Sports Science (L.Taylor), Hong Kong Association of Sports
 Medicine and Sports Science (Fong), Human Biology Association (Verala-Sliva), International
 Society of Biomechanics in Sports (Fong, M.King), Norbert Elias Foundation (Malcolm), North
 American Society for the Sociology of Sport (Malcolm), Royal Society of Arts (Giulianotti, Varela-
 Silva), Royal Society of Biology (Folland).

 Several staff hold prominent roles in national and international associations. Downward is
 President of the European Sports Economics Association. Garcia is Executive Director of the
 Association for the Study of Sport and the European Union. Lewis is President of the Tissue and
 Cell Engineering Society. K.Tolfrey was the British Association for Sport and Exercise Sciences
 (BASES) chair (2015-18).

 Unit staff make extensive contributions to shaping debate across discipline areas. The NCSEM
 has organised and hosted national conferences in 2015, 2017 and 2019 (the latter two in
 collaboration with the Faculty of Sport and Exercise Medicine UK). Plateau and Stensel
 organised an MRC funded UK Hot Topics Workshop in 2020 bringing together over 60 delegates
 from academia, the public sector and industry to scope out research priorities around physical
 activity, appetite regulation and obesity.

 Several Unit staff hold visiting professorships or act in advisory roles within the discipline:
 Bairner is a member of the Advisory Committee of the Department of Kinesiology (Physical
 Education) at Seoul National University (appointed 2020) and Stensel was Chairperson of the
 Visiting Committee for Sports Science and Physical Education at the Chinese University of Hong

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Kong (2017). Giulianotti is Visiting Professor at the University of South-Eastern Norway and
 Seoul National University. Skinner is a Visiting Professor at the Russian International Olympic
 University, at Beijing Sport University and Ulster University. Smith is Professorial Fellow at the
 Centre for Sport and Social Justice, RMIT and Visiting Professor at the Centre for Sport and
 Social Impact, La Trobe University.

 Unit staff are heavily engaged in bodies committed to national and international priorities
 around safeguarding, integrity, and sport as a lever for social change:
 • Rhind is Sport Safeguarding Forum lead and Co-Chair of the Research Evidence Working
     Group associated with the International Safeguards for Children in Sport (working with
     UK Sport, Sport England, DCMS, NSPCC, Police, and NHS).
 • Yilmaz was an invited speaker at Time for Europe to Stand Against Child Trafficking in
     Sport (European Parliament, Brussels, 2018).
 • Manoli is an Academic Expert on the European Commission Expert Group on Sport Integrity
     (her ‘Mapping Corruption in Sport’ report is the official policy recommendation to EU
     member states).
 • Skinner has conducted policy work for the World Anti-Doping Agency.
 • Collison is a United Nations invited expert advising on sport as an educational tool to tackle
     violent extremism.

 4.3 Indicators of wider influence
 In line with strategy commitments to world leading research addressing contemporary and
 emerging challenges, Unit staff are encouraged to engage in external activities. Their influence
 and recognition are evidenced here through their work for grant review committees, advisory
 boards and working groups, their roles as conference chairs and invited speakers, awards
 received and editorial roles held.

 Virtually all staff act as reviewers for funding bodies, with many serving on national and
 international grant review committees e.g., Blagrove (Chair of Research Grants Panel, UK
 Strength and Conditioning Association), Cale (Education Panel for the Hong Kong Research
 Assessment Exercise 2020), Downward (UEFA Research Grants Committee), Fullgrabe (PhD
 studentship review panel for Action on Hearing Loss, UK), Garcia (Football Against Racism in
 Europe panel), Giulianotti (ESRC College of Reviewers, GCRF Peer Review College),
 Hogervorst (Alzheimer’s Research UK grant panel), Leicht (Spinal Cord Injury Research Board),
 Markey (Early Career UKRI International Development Peer Review College Member), Pain
 (Finnish Research Council of Biosciences, Health and Environment), Papathomas (Health
 Research Board, Ireland) and Skinner (Swiss National Science Foundation).

 Unit staff have accepted invitations to join advisory boards and working groups, particularly
 in promotion of physical activity and for sports governing bodies:
 • Bishop: Scientific Advisory Board of the Transplantoux Society (encouraging exercise as
     medicine in transplant recipients).
 • J.King: Nuffield Health Scientific Advisory Board.
 • Stensel: British Nutrition Foundation Scientific Advisory Board.
 • Stevinson: Macmillan Cancer Support Physical Activity Expert Advisory Panel.
 • Clemes: Sedentary Behaviour Expert Working Group for the 2018/19 UK Chief Medical
     Officers’ Physical Activity Guidelines Review.
 • Stevinson: Contributor to the ‘Movement for Movement’ curriculum on physical activity and
     health for UK medical schools.
 • M.King: Injury Prevention Working Group of the Badminton World Federation and the
     Bowling Legality Group of the International Cricket Council.
 • Jowett: Sport England Task Force on Diversity in Sport, and UK Sport as a Coach Developer
     Consultant and leader of “Women in High Performance Coaching” Project.
 • V.Tolfrey: IPC Classification committee member.



                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff acting in conference chair roles include:
 • Giulianotti: Multiple chair roles including Head of Scientific Committee of the International
     Symposium, Sport for a Better World? A social scientific investigation into the Sport for
     Development and Peace Sector, Commonwealth Secretariat, 2017.
 • M.King: Chairperson, XVI International Symposium on Computer Simulation in
     Biomechanics, Australia, 2017; Chairperson, 6th World Congress of Science and Medicine in
     Cricket, Loughborough, 2019.
 • Maidment: Academic Lead, 2018-20, for the British Academy of Audiology Annual
     Conference.
 • Malcolm: Chair of the Scientific Committee for 2020 European Association for the Sociology
     of Sport conference (postponed).
 • Pain: 10th International Symposium on Computer Science in Sport, Loughborough, 2015
 • Skinner: European Association for Sport Management, 2020.
 In addition, several staff have been members of the BASES annual conference Scientific
 Programme Committee (e.g., Harwood, I.Taylor, Stensel).

 Unit staff have given over 300 invited talks worldwide. Examples include Bailey (8th
 International Conference on Sports and Exercise Science Annual Conference, Bangkok, 2018),
 Bairner (International Joint Conference on Physical Activity, Exercise Science and Sport
 Sociology, Taiwan, 2015), Blagrove (Royal Society of Medicine, London, 2020), Bishop
 (International Transplantoux Symposium, Leuven, 2020), Cale (British Educational Research
 Association, Manchester, 2019), Cushion (International Council for Coach Excellence Global
 Conference, Tokyo, 2020), Downward (Sport Forum – International Scientific Conference,
 National Olympic Committee of Lithuania, 2019), Folland (UK Strength & Conditioning
 Association Conference, Hinckley, 2017), Fong (Royal Society of Medicine – Sports Injuries and
 Sports Orthopaedics Meeting, London, 2018), Giulianotti (University Day of the German Society
 of Sport Science, Berlin, 2019), Jackson (United States Olympic Committee, Utah, 2018),
 Kinnafick (BASES, Liverpool, 2017), James (Royal Society of Medicine Rio 2016 Olympic
 Games conference, London, 2016), J.King (British Association for the Study of Liver Disease,
 London, 2018), M.King (The Royal Philosophical Society of Glasgow, Strathclyde, 2020), Leicht
 (Korean Paralympic Committee Sports Science International Seminar, Seoul, 2019), Malcolm
 (World Congress of Sociology of Sport, Otago, 2019), Papathomas (European Network of Young
 Specialists in Sport Psychology 14th Annual Conference, Zagreb, 2018), Smith (World Science
 Festival Brisbane, 2016), Stensel (European Congress on Obesity Annual Conference,
 Glasgow, 2019) and L.Taylor (Brazilian Olympic Committee International Sports Science
 Seminar, Rio De Janeiro, 2019).

 Notable awards include: Harwood (Distinguished Contribution to Sport and Exercise Psychology
 Award by the British Psychological Society, 2018) and V.Tolfrey (IPC Paralympic Scientific
 Award in recognition of her outstanding contribution to the field of sport for people with an
 impairment, 2017). Conference awards include:
 • Clifford: (BASES Early Career Research Award, 2019).
 • Clemes: PGR student awards, Ewan Macdonald Prize for the best poster at the
    Occupational Health Conference, Bristol, 2019, Outstanding Poster of Physiotherapy UK
    Prize, Birmingham, 2019.
 • James: PGR student prizes at the American College of Sports Medicine 2015 and European
    College of Sports Sciences 2018 annual conferences.
 • Maidment: British Society of Audiology Jos Millar Shield, 2018.
 • Leicht: Readers’ Choice Award for best review paper of 2018 in Spinal Cord.

 Collectively, Unit staff have editorial roles with over 80 journals. 32 staff are Editorial Board
 Members (some for multiple journals), 24 are Associate Editors, five have Editor-in-Chief (EIC)
 roles and one is an Executive Editor (EE). In these latter roles, the influence of Unit staff is
 clearly visible:



                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   As EE (since 2019) for Journal of Sport Sciences (Social and Behavioural Sciences),
     Jackson introduced initiatives (special issue topics, topical article highlights, identifying
     areas for invited reviews, appointment of a social media editor) that have increased
     downloads (+68%) and CiteScore (+72%).
 •   As EIC (since 2018) for International Review for the Sociology of Sport, Malcolm has
     extended the international scope of the editorial board and appointed a new reviews editor.
     Increases in submissions, downloads, citations and impact factor have followed.
 •   Fong is EIC for Sports Biomechanics (since 2014). He has expanded the journal’s focus to
     encompass sport injury and medicine in addition to the previous focus on sports skills and
     techniques. He has enlarged the editorial team and instigated a double-blind peer review
     process. This journal has experienced a four-fold increase in submissions, a doubling of
     downloads and improved journal metrics.
 •   Downward is EIC (since 2018) for European Sport Management Quarterly. He set an
     explicit goal (achieved in 2020) for gender balance among associate editors and board
     members.
 •   Giulianotti is the joint founding editor of Frontiers in Sports and Active Living (launched
     2020), which encompasses a wide spectrum of social and natural sciences related to sport,
     leisure, and active living. Giulianotti led creation of the journal’s social science sections,
     appointed the section editors and jointly authored the journal’s foundational ‘Grand
     Challenge’ statement.

 These roles show Unit staff playing leading roles in shaping the debate and direction within
 Sport and Exercise Science.




                                                                                             Page 23
