Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Plymouth

 Unit of Assessment: UoA11 Computer Science and Informatics


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Highlights

    •   We broadened research scope significantly with growing numbers of research
        applications in health technology, sustainability, agritech, and offshore renewable
        energy (ORE). These areas are central to the University of Plymouth’s long-term
        strategy.
    •   Staff increased from 11.2 FTEs to 14.62; refreshed by seven new ECRs (section 2).
    •   Research income from UK, EU and international sources rose to £7.7M from £6.7M
        (section 3).
    •   A Cyber-SHIP lab was set up with over £3M of funding, a new and unique research
        facility designed to address key cyber security challenges facing the shipping industry
        (sections 3 and 4)
    •   A Big Data group was set up and interdisciplinary collaborations were invigorated
        through a new School structure (sections 3 and 4).

 1 Overview

 Research in Computer Science and Informatics at the University of Plymouth (UoP) is mainly
 carried out at two research centres, the Centre for Robotics and Neural Systems (CRNS)
 and the Centre for Security, Communications and Networks (CSCAN). Both centres form
 part of the School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics (SECaM) within the Faculty
 of Science and Engineering (FoSE). Several staff in UoA11 occupy leading roles in the
 Faculty (Jones, Executive Dean; Ghita, Associate Dean for International and Postgraduate;
 Clarke, Deputy Head of SECaM), which provides a strong position within the Faculty and
 University and enables impact on strategic decisions, including on research and
 postgraduate matters.

 In REF2014 UoP submitted 12.4 category A staff to UoA11 in a submission that was focused
 on Cognitive Robotics and Neural Computation. The present REF2021 submission contains
 17 category A (14.62 FTEs) and 7 category B staff representing 10% of the independent
 researchers in FOSE. The submission has a much wider scope than previously due to growth
 and major restructuring:

 In 2019, the former School of Computing, Electronics and Mathematics (SoCEM) merged
 with the School of Engineering to form the School of Engineering, Computing and
 Mathematics. The School merger created a synergistic mix of academic disciplines,
 strengthening research through new interdisciplinary collaborations within the three core
 subject areas in the new School -- Engineering, Computing and Mathematics. This
 interdisciplinary environment aligns with Government and EPSRC priority areas of clean
 growth, digitalisation, autonomy, and health technology. It enhances sharing of good practice
 and alignment of processes and initiatives to maximise research and teaching benefits and
 effectiveness across the School. It also enables more effective interaction between research
 groups and training of researchers for industrial and research needs aligned to the future
 needs of the country, including the challenges of the fourth Industrial revolution and global

                                                                                         Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 digital transformation. Therefore, CSCAN and CRNS sit together in a supportive environment
 and form a natural unit submission.

 Furthermore, in 2016 Cangelosi and Marocco initiated the formation of a new BigData
 group. This responded to the enormous growth the field has seen in recent years reflected in
 UK Government strategy, especially Industry 4.0, which puts Computer Science, Data
 Science and AI at the core of developments across industries. In the reporting period, five
 lecturers were recruited to strengthen AI and Big Data in UoA11. Compared to REF2014,
 research now falls into four broad thematic areas: Robotics; Computational Neuroscience
 (REF2014); Big Data & Artificial Intelligence; Cyber Security & Networks (new).

 SciVal data confirm that the majority of outputs cover core Computer Science topics (39.2%),
 Maths (including theoretical/data analyses, 11.3%) and Engineering (21.8 %). The remaining
 27.7% cover a broad range of interdisciplinary topics, prominently in Neuroscience and
 Psychology (through research in Computational Neuroscience) and the Health/Medical area
 (Social robotics, HCI, and BigData). Given the interdisciplinary nature of research, UoA11
 contributes strongly to the objectives of the University’s three strategic research institutes
 (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes):

    •   Marine Institute via Marine Cyber Security; AI, Optimisation and Data Analysis;
        Autonomous Robotics.
    •   Plymouth Institute of Health and Care Research via Social and Healthcare Robotics
        (impact case 1); Computational Neuroscience; BigData for e-health.
    •   Sustainable Earth Institute via Agricultural robotics (impact case 2); Robotics and AI
        for Renewable Energy, especially offshore.

 Strategic Aims

 Our mission is to promote innovative research in core and applied Computer Science
 domains that reaches the widest national and international recognition and highest impact.

 Figure 1 displays performance metrics of all UoA11 research outputs over the REF period.
 The figure shows that 20.5% of outputs perform in the top 10% worldwide and 2 to 5 % in the
 top 1%. More than a quarter of outputs appeared in the top 10% of journals and 2 to 7% in
 the top 1% (as measured by ‘CiteScore’, the average citation count per document in a
 journal). The plots confirm consistency of this outstanding performance over time.

 Based on this data and wider achievements outlined in the subsequent sections, we have
 met all strategic aims identified in the REF2014 submission (see especially the highlights at
 the top of this section).




                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: Performance metrics for all UoA11 outputs published during the reporting period.


 CRNS and CSCAN developed over more than ten years and are now well consolidated in the
 School with excellent visibility worldwide. Individuals have their main affiliation with one
 centre, but are often associated with secondary units. Both centres have an excellent work
 ethos, highly motivated members, international reputation, and impact that grew strongly
 during the assessment period.


 Centre for Robotic and Neural Systems (CRNS).

 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/robotics-neural-systems

 [Category A: Belpaeme, Gaudl, Gianni, Howard, Kelefouras, Li, Palomino, Stoelen,
 Stuart, Walker, Wennekers, Yang. Category B: Borisyuk, Cangelosi, Lemaignan,
 Merrison-Hort. Other previous members: Bugmann, Culverhouse, Marocco, Masala,
 Metta, Millard, Rahat, Rodrigues,Thill]

 The strategic vision of the CRNS embraces world-class interdisciplinary research
 investigating the physical and functional basis of perception, behaviour and cognition in both,
 natural and artificial neural and autonomous systems (including humans, animals and
 robots). The CRNS has established an international research hub in the integration of
 cognitive robotics and computational neuroscience. We pursue our aims through publication
 in leading journals, development of state of the art robotics labs, and research income from
 leadership in large, EPSRC and EU international consortia.

 With a strong track record and international reputation for leadership in cognitive robotics,
 CRNS explores models of action and language learning, developmental and epigenetic
 robotics, human-robot interaction for children and the elderly, or mathematical and
 computational modelling of visual and auditory perception. We also study nonlinear dynamics
 to model working memory, timing, and learning processes; explore motor learning and
 embodiment, and the application of computational and robotics modelling to psychology,
 neuroscience, and animal behaviour. Given the Centre’s highly interdisciplinary approach, it
 collaborates with many researchers in the University and worldwide. For example, Belpaeme

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cooperates with Luc Steeles (Universidad Pompeu Fabra) on the Evolution of Language or
 Bram Vanderborght (Vrije Universiteit Brussel) on Human Computer Interaction;
 Cangelosi works with Giorgio Metta (Scientific Director of the Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia)
 on Cognitive Robotics or Steve Furber (Uni Manchester) on neuro-inspired hardware for
 robots. Borisyuk develops models of tremor with Nada Yousif at Imperial and tadpole spinal
 cord models with Alan Roberts from UWE Bristol; Howard published on limb control with
 Dan Wolpert (Columbia) and Konrad Koerding (Upenn); Wennekers develops models of
 brain-function with Palm (Universitaet Ulm) and language with Pulvermueller (Freie
 Universitaet Berlin).

 Strong research strands evidenced by our selected outputs include:

    [Robotic Control; Sensors and Actuators:] Stoelen and Howard lead Impact case 1 on
    agricultural robotics, where low-cost public domain harvesting robots are deployed in real
    environments. Chen works on robot controllers for a wide range of applications. His
    publications have attracted an immense level of scientific attention in terms of citations.

    [Social and cognitive robotics:] Impact case 2 by Belpaeme, Cangelosi & Gaudl considers
    robot applications in social, educational and health contexts. Their work on robot-
    supported child learning has set new scientific agendas and attracted a wide press attention
    including front page coverage by Science Robotics and Scientific American.

    [Computational Neuroscience:] Borisyuk, Wennekers & Howard have a long-standing
    publication record and international visibility in CNS topics such as dynamical modeling of
    neural systems (Borisyuk), brain-inspired language and cognition models (Wennekers) or
    movement control (Howard).

 During the evaluation period additional staff were recruited to counteract staff turnover. Three
 early career lecturers complement and extend our core competences in Robotics: Gianni is
 an internationally recognised expert in search and rescue robotics and multi-robot systems.
 He also has responsibility for our Nvidia Lab. Gaudl’s research is focused on AI, games,
 animal behaviour and low-cost robotics, especially in the health sector. Li is an expert in
 Machine Learning, Control Theory, Smart Materials and Soft Robotics. All three are highly
 promising researchers with a quickly increasing international visibility evidenced by their
 research outputs. Gianni and Gaudl secured grant income soon after hired. Gianni started
 two projects about aerial robot swarms for offshore wind turbine inspection and
 decommissioning nuclear submarines (with Babcock, UK); Gaudl has a significant role in
 EPIC2, where robotic systems are explored in health care environments. This is a major
 project headed at the University’s new strategic Centre for Health Technology
 (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/epic ).

 As an important element of growth, the research scope of the unit has been significantly
 broadened and extended beyond Robotics and Neural Computation into wider Artificial
 Intelligence technologies. This new initiative focuses on statistical learning, machine learning
 and big data as well as optimisation methods in various contexts. It responds to strong trends
 in Computer Science research and Industry requirements, and is well aligned with UK
 research strategies: For instance, the EPSRC intends to grow its “Artificial Intelligence”
 theme, and the UK Government’s Industrial Strategy published in 2017 includes AI as one of
 four grand challenges. Three ECRs joined since 2017, covering a variety of complementary
 topics in these areas (Walker: AI and optimisation, Kelefouras: optimised computing
 hardware; Palomino: sentiment analysis).


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The scope of this initiative is even wider: members of the Centre (Cangelosi, Masala)
 initiated the implementation of a Big Data research group, which recruits members from
 across the School (Computing, Maths, Engineering) and serves as a platform for projects
 within SECaM as well as with other units (Palomino, Gianni and Kelefouras work with the
 Centre for Health Technology; Wennekers and Howard with the School of Psychology).

 Centre for Security, Communications and Networks (CSCAN).

 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-for-security-communications-and-network-
 research

 [Category A: Clarke, Ghita, Jones, Papadaki, Sun, Tam. Category B: Furnell, Other:
 Shiaeles, Stengel]

 CSCAN dates back to the 1980s, with a proven long-term research pedigree, including both,
 collaborative work with industry and participation in European research initiatives.

 Work at the Centre focuses on Digital Forensics, Human Aspects of Cyber Security,
 Networking and Communications, and Marine and Maritime Cyber Security. Some
 highlights (see submitted outputs) are early studies for user authentication using bio-metrics
 and behaviour profiles (Clarke, Furnell, Papadaki), information security compliance
 modelling in organisations (Furnell), content-based video quality prediction (Sun), internet
 traffic classification (Ghita), or Tam’s highly recognised work about Android malware
 behaviour reconstruction.

 CSCAN has recently set-up a new Maritime Cyber Threats research group (Jones, Tam)
 which aligns with the University’s focus upon the marine sector. The group brings together
 leading-edge multidisciplinary research and practical expertise from across the University
 and beyond. It is uniquely placed to make significant contributions in maritime cyber-security.
 The group is supported by grants from H2020 (CYBER-MAR) and Research England
 (CYBER-SHIP, £3M). An ECR, Tam, has significantly contributed to setting up the Lab; she
 has been appointed to a lecturer post in 2019. A second ECR (Asad, UoA12) was appointed
 lecturer in 12/2019.

 The work at CSCAN has led to many successful postgraduate projects and associated
 publications. About half of UoA11’s PhD completions were located in CSCAN. In addition to
 an active base of postgraduate and postdoctoral research, CSCAN’s research also underpins
 MSc and MRes programmes at UoP.

 The CSCAN Network of European Universities (established in 2004) continues to flourish and
 facilitates research co-operation with academic institutions across Europe: the University of
 Applied Sciences, Darmstadt, Furtwangen University of Applied Sciences and, since
 February 2015, the Frankfurt University of Applied Sciences. This has created a community
 of 17 doctoral students throughout the reporting period.

 Future Strategy

 The launch of SECaM in 2019 and the new UoP institutes - Marine, Health, and Sustainability
 - provided an opportunity to revisit research and impact strategy for the next 5 years. We
 installed a new research group on BigData and AI in CRNS, which now contains Robotics,


                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Computational Neuroscience (REF2014), Big Data and AI. We embrace new opportunities in
 digitalisation, artificial intelligence and robotics emerging in the 4th Industrial Revolution and
 identified in the UK Industrial Strategy. Our objectives are

        •   Grow the staff base in Computing in the School to extend the range of
            competences and operational power. Four new lecturers/senior lecturers have
            already been hired after the staff cut-off date for this REF; a full professor post in
            AI has been advertised to further strengthen leadership.
        •   Prioritize excellent, impact-yielding research, aligned to UKRI strategies and
            supported by enhanced international collaborations, increasing the number of
            world-leading publications and grant income, and maintaining an outward focus
            that informs international facilities and national policies.
        •   Maximize sustainable research impact, by taking full advantage of our new School
            and its state-of-the-art infrastructure, of growing SME networks and
            multidisciplinary industrial projects.
        •   Strengthen our CPD provision, and continue to expand our research-informed,
            educational and public engagement programmes to increase awareness of the
            importance of Computer Science in pupils and the public.
        •   Sustain and consolidate our outstanding team of postdoctoral researchers, and
            increase our complement of PGR students.


 Open Access Policy

 The UoA complies fully with REF Open Access policies and the School encourages
 researchers to use this option. The University published its Research Data Management
 policy in 2018 to ensure data integrity, discoverability and reuse throughout the lifecycle of
 research projects. Publications are made available publicly online
 (https://pearl.plymouth.ac.uk/), usually under OA licenses funded by grants. Members of
 UoA11 contribute to OpenAccess software, notably YARP, a widely used robotics platform
 developed under supervision of Metta, who held a 20% contract at UoP for 5 years during
 the assessment period (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YARP). Parts of YARP were developed
 and tested in robotics projects in Plymouth (ITALK, Poeticon). Members of UoA11 edit for
 Open Access journals: Wennekers (PLOS one, Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience,
 Frontiers in Neuroinformatics, Digital), Belpaeme (Frontiers in Robotics and AI), Cangelosi
 (Frontiers in Neurorobotics).

 Covid 19

 In response to the pandemic, staff were encouraged to work from home, but can access
 research labs on demand where necessary, consistent with government regulations. Strict
 hygienic and behavioural procedures are in place throughout University buildings. Online
 meetings take place at increased frequency, with weekly subject group meetings, bi-weekly
 School meetings and monthly research planning meetings of the Centres. A SECaM
 research planning day took place online in 12/2020 and UoP conducted a survey of the
 impact of Covid19 on staff work and wellbeing.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Table 1 provides staffing data. All staff are on permanent contracts, ensuring strategic
 continuity and job security. Three are on part-time contracts holding second appointments
 abroad (Stoelen, Belpaeme) or for a focus on research (Papadaki). Three researchers are
 professors, 6 associate professors, 7 grade 8 lecturers and one grade 7. This profile reflects
 the recent refreshment of our staff base, also visible in the high numbers of younger staff.
 Four colleagues are female (24%) and 13 male, slightly better than UK averages for females
 in professional Computing jobs (ca 20%, various sources) or female students in Computer
 Science (18%, https://www.stemwomen.co.uk/). Twelve of 17 staff have a non-British
 background, 8 originate from EU countries, and 4 from Asia and Southern America; 3 are
 from a non-Caucasian background. These numbers are indicative of a highly international
 and inclusive workforce; on average only 13.8% of the UK population is from an ethnic
 minority background. It is a stated strategic aim of SECaM to become a beacon for EDI in the
 university
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/equality-diversity-and-
 inclusion.

 Table 1: Staffing profiles within UoA11 (% per headcount; n=17 category A researchers)
  Grade                  % (#)     Age group       %        Employment Basis         %
  Professor              18 (3) 25-34              17.6     Full-Time               82.4
  Ass. Professor         35 (6) 35-44              29.4     Part-Time               17.6
  Lecturer               47 (8) 45-54              29.4     Employment Terms         %
                                   55-64           23.5     Permanent               100
                                   65+             0        Fixed-term               0

  Ethnicity            %        Gender            %                Disability         %
  BME                  23.5     m                 76.5             No                82.4
  Not known             5.9     f                 23.5             Not known         11.8
  White                70.6                                        Yes                5.9


 i. Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our staffing strategy aims to grow excellence at all levels and to attract the best researchers
 in line with our objectives and needs. The international reputation of CRNS and CSCAN
 helps with attracting high-quality applications from around the world.

 Aligned with the University’s internationalisation strategy we advertise and hire internationally
 and expect staff to collaborate at an international level.

 We attempt to position the unit ideally for Industry 4.0 by interdisciplinary and international
 collaboration and growth of research, especially through new investments into AI and
 robotics. Four new lecturer/senior lecturer and one professor post have been allocated to the
 unit focusing on AI, robotics and cyber security.

 Research within the unit aligns with the University’s three strategic institute themes: Marine,
 Health and Sustainability. Collaborations in these areas are actively encouraged and
 growing. Impact is reached by working with end users and industry (Honda, Babcock, Bosch,
 Derriford National Trust, and others). Potential for research impact is a key element of the
 recruitment criteria for new staff.



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All submitted staff are on balanced contracts. UoP aims at a workload giving equal weight
 (40%) to research and teaching, and 20% to administrative responsibilities.

 The unit saw a large throughput of researchers in the reporting period. The majority of
 outward moves were due to career progression: seven junior lecturers / ECRs took offers for
 permanent academic posts elsewhere (Yang, Rodrigues, Lemaignan, Masala, Rahat,
 Shiaeles, Millard), one entered industry (Merrison-Hort). This demonstrates excellent
 opportunities for career development at the unit. Furthermore, three senior staff took new
 academic posts elsewhere (Borisyuk, Cangelosi, Furnell) and two retired (Bugmann,
 Culverhouse) although they are still affiliated with the unit as visiting researchers.

 Staff turnover allowed us to build a refreshed staff base with a wider range of skills than in
 the 2014 submission. This applies specifically to new topics in AI, BigData, and Marine &
 Cyber Security where we hired a significant number of new staff at lecturer level during the
 assessment period. Key appointments were in the field of AI and Optimisation (Walker,
 Kelefouras), Big Data (Palomino), Robotics (Gianni, Gaudl), and Cyber Security (Tam,
 internally promoted). These researchers have strong records of accomplishment and clear
 potential to generate research excellence and impact (cf. their submitted outputs; Walker and
 Gaudl have attracted competitive UoA internal studentships; Gaudl, Gianni and Tam
 brought in several research grants).

 Career development

 We have a strong commitment to developing scholars to provide leadership and
 sustainability, endorsing the University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. The University has successfully retained the Excellence Award
 (see Institutional environment statement).

 Principles of career development apply across staff at all levels from research fellows to
 senior staff, with additional measures in place for new and early career researchers. All
 academic staff develop research plans and take part in a formal personal development
 scheme (PDR) to gauge performance and set objectives. Staff are evaluated annually
 against the previous year's objectives, their job descriptions and individual requirements.
 Results are propagated upwards to the HoS and Dean for School and Faculty level oversight
 and planning. The PDR is also a measure to communicate Faculty and School strategy
 downwards. New staff are allocated a mentor for one year who advises on academic issues.

 A wide range of training sessions is available for UoP researchers catering for people at all
 career stages. This extends from REF strategy, impact and Open Access issues to research
 and presentation skills. Sessions are delivered internally or by external trainers, in
 collaboration with the Doctoral College and relevant UoP units. Compulsory online courses
 must be undertaken and refreshed at prescribed intervals: Equality and Unconscious Bias,
 Mental Health Awareness, Diversity in the workplace, GDPR and Information Security.
 Training also takes place at School away days where identified topics are covered (eg
 funding opportunities and procedures; REF; research strategy). Training is monitored as part
 of the PDR process. The School further encourages the achievement of professional
 academic accreditations.

 UoP operates an annual promotion scheme with associated workshops to clarify processes.
 Promotions are awarded according to merit in accordance with defined criteria. Since 2014
 one person was promoted to professor (Clarke; m), one to associate professor (Papadaki; f)
 and four to lecturer level (Stoelen, Tam, Lemaignan and Merrison-Hort; 3m, 1f). Clarke,

                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Papadaki, Stoelen, Lemaignan and Merrison-Hort had been with the University since their
 PhD studies at the time of promotion, demonstrating ongoing long-time support of staff. Tam
 (f) entered the University as a research fellow in 2017, secured a lecturer appointment 2019
 and continues to contribute to the Cyber-SHIP lab.

 The School also runs a scheme for semester-long sabbaticals (eg Dahl, Marroco).

 New Researchers and Early Career Researchers

 The School has a strong commitment to support young researchers and their career
 development. At the census date, we had seven ECRs (Tam, Gianni, Gaudl, Kelefouras,
 Walker, Palomino, Stoelen). Seven ECRs secured permanent academic posts elsewhere
 during the reporting period (Lemaignan & Yang, UWE Bristol; Masala, Manchester
 Metropolitan; Millard, University Lincoln; Rahat, Swansea University; Rodrigues, BCAM,
 Spain; Shiaeles, Portsmouth).

 We support research assistants and ECRs through:

 - Mentoring. New members of staff are allocated a research-active mentor for specific
 guidance on research, career development, and grant writing.
 - Performance Development Review (PDR). Senior members of the School who review all
 staff and give advice and support for development needs.
 - ECR Research Forum: This is a school-wide group of ECRs who self-organise to provide
 mutual support, with regular meetings, reading club, grant writing support, etc.
 - Workload adjustments. New researchers have a reduced teaching load of 20% (instead of
 typically 40%) and no major administrative responsibilities.
 - Postgraduate Teaching Certificate. Primarily a teaching course, but includes procedures
 and regulations relevant to research, eg PGR student supervision and Doctoral College (DC)
 support.
 - Internal courses: delivered through the DC covering a wide spectrum of skills including
 project management, IPR, research and presentation skills, grant writing etc.
 - PhD Studentships and Small Grant Competitions. In the past, more than 50% of internally
 funded PhD studentships and small grants were priority-allocated to ECRs to kick-start their
 research productivity and supervisory experience.
 - External visitors: The research centres run seminar series supported by the School with
 internal and external speakers, providing opportunities for junior staff to develop presentation
 skills and foster networking.

 Equality and Diversity

 As one of its strategic objectives SECaM is committed to the advancement of equality,
 diversity and inclusion in employment and career development. The University, the School of
 Computing, Electronics and Mathematics, and the School of Engineering attained Athena
 SWAN bronze awards in recognition of a commitment to improving gender equality in
 October 2018. In November 2020 the new School, SECaM, also received an Athena SWAN
 bronze award. https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/equality-
 diversity-and-inclusion/athena-swan

 EDI issues in relation to recruitment, promotion, and research are monitored through the
 yearly PDR process and by research centre leads for reporting to the Faculty Research
 Committee. The School carefully formulates recruitment and marketing documents not to
 exclude under-represented groups, and aims to be able to shortlist at least one female


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 candidate for each externally advertised post. It is HR policy for recruitment panel members
 to receive training in equality and diversity issues. All members of staff complete compulsory
 online training on equality and diversity, and unconscious bias.

 Output selection for this REF submission followed peer rankings of up to five best outputs of
 each researcher by internal and external reviewers. The single best output for each
 researcher was chosen and the remaining outputs selected according to the rankings. There
 were no ambiguities of choice in the process that could have disadvantaged minorities.
 Several of the best papers are from active female members of the unit. The UoA submits
 ~24% females, slightly more than females among Computing students or in professional
 Computer Science jobs. In December 2020 the School has offered two new posts in AI and
 Cyber Security to females. In a wider context, the University provides wellbeing and
 counselling services, access to on-campus nurseries for staff, and it supports
 maternity/paternity leaves.

 ii. Research Students

 Postgraduate research students are key to our research environment. 104 PhD students
 completed during the reporting period, roughly 15 completions per year or 1 per FTE per
 year. The number of completions is stable over time. 20% of completions in the School were
 by females; 48% had a BAME background. Recruitment was by a variety of sources, such as
 four Marie Curie training networks (APRIL, SECURE, DCOMM, COGNOVO), the CSCAN
 Network of European Universities, a range of EU grants and additional internal studentships
 distributed within the School in a competitive process (~3 per year). The School secured an
 EPSRC DTP with a focus on Offshore Renewable Energy (ORE) and provides further PhD
 studentships in Health & Medical Technologies for which members of UoA11 have
 successfully applied (Walker, Gianni). CSCAN also attracts self-funded students from Kuwait
 and Saudi-Arabia (> 20 students).

 The University considers educating the next generation of academics and researchers
 central to its mission. It coordinates postgraduate studies through the University’s Doctoral
 College (DC), such that all students receive excellent and extensive support at the same high
 level of quality.

 Recruitment follows strict procedures to guarantee equality, inclusivity and fairness, as well
 as wide and international advertisements of posts. A trained recruitment team reviews
 applications and interviews shortlisted candidates according to procedures very similar to
 those for standard academic posts. Students are provided with dedicated office
 accommodation and all necessary lab access and computing infrastructure. Depending on
 the funding source, special-purpose equipment, travel or other resources are provided.
 Where possible, students are collocated to support a lively student environment.

 Training and Support

 The DC offers a range of training courses in research and transferrable skills, such as project
 management, networking, career management, presentation skills, etc. Students evaluate
 with their supervisors which courses to take. Student members of Marie Curie training
 networks did benefit from additional training as part of the network, eg sessions in science
 communication, entrepreneurship, or the opportunity to organise a student-led conference.

 Supervisory teams consist of a Director of Study and a second supervisor, but can have
 more members if an interdisciplinary research topic requires this. A further independent UoP

                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic ('expert commentator') reviews progress at several junctures (initial proposal,
 transfer report, final thesis, viva). All supervisors are trained as required by the DC. Less
 experienced supervisors are paired with an experienced colleague.

 Students are fully integrated into their Centres and the School’s research environment. They
 partake in regular lab meetings, internal and external seminars, and the general international
 research culture. They benefit from interaction with national and international visitors to the
 School and have a representative on the School's research committee.

 Progress Monitoring

 Comprehensive monitoring procedures are in place overseen by the DC. Frequent informal
 meetings are complemented by formal three-monthly meetings, annual progress reports, and
 crucial milestones recorded in an online monitoring system (gradbook). The expert
 commentator provides critical scrutiny and guidance independent of the supervisory team. As
 progress permits, students transfer after 12 months from an MPhil to a PhD route.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our research environment is supported by state-of-the-art Infrastructure and facilities. Most
 researchers and all PGR students have generous office space in a modern building erected
 in 2002/03 that also features some of the Computing labs, lecture halls, large community
 areas and a cafeteria. Robotics and additional Networking and Security Labs are in buildings
 close-by (less than 5 minutes). The University is investing £50M into a new building that will
 host major parts of the School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics from the start of
 the 2023/24 academic year. This will contain shared lab-spaces, teaching space, IT services
 and other facilities, notably a high-tech virtual engineering suite to which all research groups
 will have access. Our existing spaces in other buildings have been re-developed, with
 generous new space for Computer Gaming and an AR/VR laboratory.

 CRNS labs are supported by three technicians. Equipment has been purchased through a
 combination of University infrastructure investments and project budgets. The Cognitive
 Robotics and Human-Robot Interaction Lab hosts an iCub humanoid baby robot, one of the
 most advanced platforms for research on cognitive robotics. Metta, who developed the iCub
 platform and is now director of the Italian Institute of Technology, held a 20% Professor post
 at UoP for 5 years in order to collaborate on joint projects (POETICON++, SECURE,
 BABEL). We also have five Nao Aldebaran humanoid robots used in HRI experiments
 (Cangelosi, Belpaeme), a MetraLab Scitos mobile platform for research on robot
 companions for the elderly (Belpaeme, Gaudl, link to UoP’s Health and Care Research
 Institute), two manipulandum set-ups for motor neuroscience research (Howard),
 autonomous un-manned aerial and terrestrial vehicles for search and rescue (Gianni, linked
 to UoP’s Marine Institute), and custom made low-cost robots for research into swarm robotics
 (Millard, Gaudl). CRNS runs an Nvidia lab of powerful workstations with in total 54 Tesla
 GPUs (Gianni) and in collaboration with Mathematics we have access to the School’s 1024
 core HPC Computer cluster for extensive simulations in Robot Learning (Cangelosi,
 Wennekers), Computational Neuroscience (Borisyuk, Wennekers) and BigData
 applications (Walker, Palomino). CRNS hosts other specialised equipment such as a
 Plankton Image Analyser system (Culverhouse) and an Information Visualisation Lab
 (Stuart).




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CSCAN also has an excellent modern technology infrastructure with several related
 computing facilities. The Cyber Security lab (Clarke, Furnell, Papadaki) is a 42-seat Security
 and Forensics laboratory, a custom-designed facility dedicated to activities relating to security
 research, related undergraduate and postgraduate teaching, and Capture-the-Flag activities.
 This facility represented an investment of over £200K when launched in October 2011; with
 additional investments of £40K in 2015 and £50K in 2019 to upgrade the computers and
 servers to a higher specification. All activities in the room are closely monitored utilising
 CCTV, traffic monitoring, firewalling, and extensive logging. Desktop PCs are controlled and
 audited with access to security toolkits provisioned through virtualisation (examples include
 hacking toolkits like Kali Linux, Social Engineering Toolset, and forensics tools as FTK). In
 addition, the School supports a separate Networks laboratory, which is used by the
 Cybersecurity students for their network technology modules. This facility has 40 seats, is
 equipped with £250K of Cisco and F5 networking and security equipment, and allows for a
 wide range of networking topologies to be deployed (covering LAN, wireless, ISP-customer-
 to-datacentre) as well as a lab cloud and datacentre infrastructure.

 The Cyber-SHIP lab, linked with UoP’s Marine Institute, is a new and unique national
 research facility designed to address key cyber security challenges facing the shipping
 industry (Jones, Tam) established in November 2019 through £3million funding from
 Research England and industry. Dedicated space in the Marine Building has been
 repurposed for the lab in close proximity to the full bridge navigation simulator. The lab brings
 together a host of connected maritime systems currently found on an actual ship’s bridge,
 featuring cutting edge maritime technology including radar equipment, a voyage data
 recorder (VDR), an Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS), an automatic
 identification system (AIS) and communications devices. Experts in cyber security and
 information systems can now assess them for weaknesses, and identify the human and
 technological changes needed to make them secure for the future. The setup is unique
 world-wide, it engages 18 commercial UK partners and sees strong interest from overseas.
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/cyber-ship-lab

 The University supports research through its administrative structures: The Research and
 Innovation team supports the preparation of grant applications and manages grants; the
 IP/commercialisation committee supports exploitation of IP rights up to part-funding start-up
 companies (eg Stoelen’s spin-out company Fieldwork Robotics Ltd;
 https://fieldworkrobotics.github.io/); a new R&D fund is designed to stimulate industrial
 collaboration and knowledge transfer.

 Research Income

 During this REF period, the Unit has received significant income through new RCUK, EU
 and international grants. Figure 4 details funds received per academic year by funding source
 (A). Part B displays year totals and demonstrates a steady income of around £1.1M per year.
 The data for the 19/20 financial year ends in June.




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: A) grant income per funding source and year, B) total grant income by year, and C) total grant income by
 funding source.


 First, we led new large, multi-national EPSRC and EU projects. An example in the
 Networks and Security area is the EU H2020 ICT RIA project “CYBER-TRUST: Advanced
 Cyber-Threat Intelligence, Detection, and Mitigation Platform for a Trusted Internet of Things”
 (2018 – 2021, 398,395EUR of 2,998,182EUR to the University of Plymouth; Shiaeles as
 technical lead, Clarke, Ghita, Papadaki, Furnell as Co-Is). Two large Robotics projects we
 led are the H2020 L2TOR – “Second Language Tutoring using Social Robots” (2016-2018,
 544,013 EUR of 3.043 MEUR to UoP; Belpaeme, coordinator) and “MoveCare: Multiple-
 actors Virtual Empathic Caregiver for the Elder” (2017-2019, 439kEUR to UoP; Cangelosi,
 coordinator). The latter two projects underpin our Impact Case Study in Social Robotics.

 Secondly, we contribute to large national and international research consortia. For
 example, CSCAN participates in the H2020 FORESIGHT project “Advanced cyber-security
 simulation platform for preparedness training in heterogeneous IoT, industrial and defense
 ecosystems” (10/19-09/21, € 290k of € 7M to UoP) and the EPSRC funded project
 “Identifying and Modelling Victim, Business, Regulatory and Malware Behaviours in a
 Changing Cyberthreat Landscape” (2013-17, £173k of £1.0M; Clarke, Furnell, Stengel, co-
 Is).

 In Maritime Cybersecurity in addition to CYBER-SHIP (see above) we contribute to CYBER-
 MAR. Both have established a new research direction within the School to address the key
 cyber security challenges facing the shipping industry. CYBER-MAR - “Cyber preparedness
 actions for a holistic approach and awareness raising in the MARitime logistics supply chain”
 is an H2020 project with 11 partners (09/19-08/22; € 644k of € 7.1M to UoP) (Jones, Tam).

 Three further large robotics projects fall in the area of health and social robotics: “DREAM:
 Development of Robot-Enhanced therapy for children with AutisM spectrum disorders” an EU
 FP7 Integrated Project (04/14-10/19; 955 kEUR of 6.432 MEUR for Plymouth; Belpaeme,
 PI). “EPIC: E-health - Productivity and Innovation in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly” (03/17-
 04/20, £1,7M of £3.4M to UoP), which is funded by the European Regional Development


                                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fund (ERDF) (Cangelosi, Dahl, Belpaeme) and EPIC 2, a follow-up of the EPIC project also
 funded by the ERDF (5/20-4/23, Gaudl, Palomino, Clarke, £4.1M to UoP).

 Thirdly, we complement our income from large collaborative projects and postgraduate
 training networks (see below), by standard grants from EPSRC, BBSRC and other sources.
 Examples are the EPSRC BABEL project to study brain-inspired cognitive systems (to
 Cangelosi and Wennekers; £1.2M to UoP); the THRIVE robotics project funded by the US
 Air Force Office of Science and Research (AFSOR-EOARD, to Cangelosi $555k); or various
 projects from the Newton Trust (UK) and the European Regional Development Fund to
 Stoelen to develop agricultural robots (£338k). (The latter partly underpin our Impact Case
 in Agricultural Robotics.)

 Fourthly, we received significant funding for postgraduate training networks:

 2016-19 EU H2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie EID European Industrial Doctorate, €1,345,614
 (€819,863 to UoP) “APRIL: Applications of Personal Robotics for Interaction and Learning”.
 (Cangelosi as Coordinator/PI; Belpaeme, Dahl co-Is).

 2016-19 EU H2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie ETN, €546,573 “DCOMM: Deictic
 Communication”. Cangelosi PI, With K Coventry (U. East Anglia) as ETN coordinator, and 8
 other partners.)

 2015-18 EU H2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie ETN, €546,573 “SECURE: Safety Enables
 Cooperation in Uncertain Robotic Environments”. (Cangelosi, Metta (UoP & IIT)).

 2013-17 EU FP7 Marie Curie Innovative Doctoral Program, €4,077,315 (all to UoP)
 “COGNOVO: Cognitive Innovation” (PI S. Denham, with Co-Is Cangelosi, Belpaeme,
 Borisyuk, Wennekers et al.).

 2015-18 EU H2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie ETN, €547K “QoE-NE: innovative Quality Of
 Experience management in Emerging mulTimedia services” (Sun, co-I).

 We further received several prestigious European postgraduate Fellowships.

 2016-18 EU FP7 Marie Curie Intra European Fellowship, €183k “CAREER-AID: Controlled
 Autonomous Robot for Early diagnosis and Rehabilitation of Autism and Intellectual
 Disability”. Cangelosi PI, Daniela Conti as Fellow (grant awarded but transferred to Sheffield
 Hallam University).

 2015-17 EU FP7 Marie Curie Intra European Fellowship, €195k “DOROTHY: Donating
 Robots a Theory of Mind”. Belpaeme PI, Lamaignan as Fellow.

 2014-16 EU FP7 Marie Curie Intra European Fellowship, €231k “DeCoRo: Developmental
 Contextdriven Robot learning”. Cangelosi PI, Stoelen as Fellow.

 2013-15 EU FP7 Marie Curie Intra European Fellowship, €221k “ORATOR: Integrating
 Object Recognition and ActiOn for action sentence production and comprehension in a
 developmental humanoid Robot”. Cangelosi PI, Beata Grzyb as Fellow.

 These fellowships were all highly successful: Stoelen and Lemaignan received lecturer
 posts at UoP afterwards. Stoelen now shares his post in Plymouth with an Associate
 Professor post in Norway. Lemaignan, Conti and Grzyb are currently research associates at
 Bristol University, Sheffield Hallam University and UCL, respectively.



                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finally, we use enterprise-focused grants for research development and proof-of-concept
 innovative projects. These can be third-stream projects that generate applied research
 funded by external, non-academic partners of the University of Plymouth Enterprise Limited.
 Examples are a Honda European Graduate Network funded by Honda (Offenburg, Germany)
 for £93,176, 2017-20, a UoP grant to set-up Fieldwork Robotics Ltd, 2017 a spin-out
 company led by Stoelen (£50k), and proof-of-concept funding to Stoelen and Howard.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research strategy puts strong emphasis on national and international collaborations to
 maximise impact. We contribute extensively to our research communities through the full
 spectrum of available measures like conference organisation and chairing, editorial and
 reviewing activity, or membership of learned societies and outreach activities.

 Co-authorship is a direct measure of our intensive collaborations and their impact on visibility.
 Table 2 shows that almost all our publications (98.1%) present collaborative work of which
 almost two thirds (62%) are with international co-authors. The vast majority (96.5%) are
 outputs from academic collaborations. With a field-weighted citation index (FCWI) of 1.71
 they are cited more than 70% more frequently than an average paper in our field.

 Table 2: Collaboration data derived from all publications of the unit (1121 publications)
  Collaboration type                         %             Scholarly       Citations       FWCI
  Data from Scopus (up to 10 Nov 20)         outputs       outputs
  International collaboration                61.6          691             8207            1.91
  National collaboration only                15.4          173             1064            1.34
  Institutional collaboration only             21          236             2155            1.67
  Single authorship (no collaboration)         1.9           21              30            0.32
  Academic-corporate collaboration              3.5          39             324            2.25
  No academic-corporate collaboration         96.5         1082            11132           1.73

 International Collaboration

 As the previous section details we have led major collaborative and agenda-setting
 programmes in all our target areas of research. Cangelosi and Belpaeme attracted many
 large international grants in robotics (APRIL, MoveCare, CAREER-AID, SECURE, THRIVE,
 among others) that firmly established our world-leading role in humanoid cognitive robotics
 and social and health-care robotics. Belpaeme and Gaudl will develop this line of research in
 the future in collaboration with the Centre for Health Technology (Jones; EPIC, EPIC2
 projects) (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-for-health-technology).

 Members of CSCAN (Shiaeles, Furnell, Clarke, and Stengel) collaborated with national
 experts on the EPSRC project “Identifying and Modelling Victim, Business, Regulatory and
 Malware Behaviours in a Changing Cyberthreat Landscape” and also, internationally, on the
 H2020 FORESIGHT project: “Advanced cyber-security simulation platform for preparedness
 training in heterogeneous IoT, industrial and defense ecosystems”. These projects aim at
 tackling the ever growing Cybercrime threat in the UK and worldwide.
 The CYBER-Ship lab is a national capability that engages researchers from throughout the
 University (Jones and Tam from the Maritime Cyberthreat Research group, members of
 CSCAN, Psychology, Maritime Law and Economics, Navigation and Maritime Science) as

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 well as 18 commercial partners. It is accessible by national and international experts and is
 actively seeking further collaborations with academic and industry partners. Few locations
 worldwide bring together a similarly broad infrastructure and expertise to explore maritime
 cyber-security. We therefore expect this new group to flourish and gain extensive visibility
 and strong impact quickly.

 Much of our research is interdisciplinary, especially, in Computational Neuroscience
 (Wennekers, Borisyuk, Howard, Merrison-Hort) or the growing fields of Health and Social
 Robotics see EPIC/EPIC2 (Gaudl, Belpaeme); ORE (Walker, Gianni) as well as
 autonomous systems (collaborations with Mechanical Engineering). Here we benefit from the
 university’s institute structure: marine (ORE), health (health and social robotics) and
 sustainability (agritech). Howard recently contributed to highly influential research on
 Morality and Creativity with colleagues in the School of Psychology. These studies would not
 have been possible without his expert input on haptic and 3D visualisation technologies, and
 his expertise in human Psychophysics. Borisyuk further led high impact interdisciplinary
 research on central pattern generators in collaboration with Roberts and Soffe (UWE Bristol).
 This work is important for future bio-inspired embodied robots with small (tadpole) brains and
 featured on the front page of the Journal of Neuroscience. Wennekers collaborated on large-
 scale human-like neural models with Cangelosi (then UoP), Pulvermueller (Freie
 Universitaet Berlin), Garagnani (Goldsmiths) and Furber (University of Manchester) to
 understand language learning in humans. This work aimed at neural language models for
 humanoid robots that make use of the SpiNNaker architecture to reach real-time
 performance. This led to new spiking neuron algorithms and implementations on iCub, iCub
 simulator and SpiNNaker boards. Belpaeme and Gaudl further collaborated locally with the
 eHealth research group on robots in health care (EPIC and EPIC2 grants). This collaboration
 is central to one of our impact cases.

 A focus of high-impact activity are the Marie Curie international training networks we run
 or contributed to: APRIL, DCOMM, SECURE and COGNOVO. These allowed us to dive into
 research topics at the frontier of science and steer the respective research agendas. Many of
 our postgraduate students and fellows on these projects have chosen a career in science,
 where they can contribute to their fields further. In particular, COGNOVO
 (https://cognovo.eu/) was a highly interdisciplinary, extremely successful EU Innovative
 Training Network established at UoP that aimed at exploring Creativity and Behavioural
 Change from the widest variety of perspectives. 13 EU fellows and 12 PhD students
 (additionally funded by UoP) collectively engaged on this endeavour. Members form UoA11
 (Borisyuk, Wennekers, Cangelosi, Wennekers, Howard, Bugmann) supervised 6
 students on Robotics and Computational Neuroscience topics, and were on the supervisory
 teams of 8 others. The ITN finished in 2017 and was exceptionally successful. Several of the
 fellows have permanent academic posts already.

 We have also developed strong interdisciplinary collaborations with colleagues in the Marine
 and Health Institutes. Howard, Borisyuk, Wennekers, Cangelosi and Belpaeme work and
 publish frequently with members of the School of Psychology. Belpaeme, Gaudl, Clarke and
 Palomino cooperate closely with the research group for eHealth. Culverhouse, Jones and
 Tam have strong links to the Marine Institute, and members of the Autonomous Marine
 Systems Group (which are submitted to UoA12) are associated members of the CRNS. The
 interdisciplinary nature of our research is visible in many of our submitted outputs.



                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff in UoA11 are actively engaged in Conference Organisation and Chairing.
 Wennekers organised and chaired MSBDy17 (with Achermann, Zurich, and Olbrich, Leipzig)
 “Brain dynamics on multiple scales, their dynamics, and integrated approaches (June 2017,
 sponsored with 18kEUR by the Max Planck Institute for Complex Systems. Cangelosi and
 Belpaeme acted as general and co-Chair of the IEEE ICDL-EPIROB conferences 2017 in
 Lisbon and 2018 in Tokyo. They also co-directed the “APRIL Summer School”, 10-13 July
 2016, Cefalù, Italy. Belpaeme was further co-director (with Bram Vanderborght, Vrije
 Universiteit Brussel) and Thill (University of Plymouth / Radboud University, Netherlands) of
 the 2nd and 3rd International Summer Schools on Social Human-Robot Interaction, 2017, in
 Portugal and 2015, in Finland. Furnell has co-chaired five instances of the International
 Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy (ICISSP) and Sun was symposium
 co-chair for Communication Software, Services and Multimedia Applications (CSSMA) at
 IEEE ICC 2019, Shanghai, China and at IEEE ICC 2014, Sidney, Australia. Walker has
 chaired the annual Visualisation in Genetic and Evolutionary Computation workshop (held at
 ACM’s GECCO) since 2012. In addition, staff were co-organising Chairs / PC chairs of over
 20 other conferences and workshops and served on the programme committees of another
 60+ workshops and conferences within the reporting period.
 Members of the unit gave 10+ keynote lectures at international conferences. Examples
 include Furnell: “Cybersecurity Illiteracy”, 18th Annual Security Conference, Las Vegas,
 USA, 30 April 2019. Clarke: “Is Digital Forensics a Necessity for Organisations?”, University
 of Nevada (Reno), May 2019. Belpaeme: Keynote at Joint IEEE International Conference on
 Development and Learning and on Epigenetic Robotics 2018, Tokyo, Japan. Cangelosi:
 Intrinsically Motivated Open-ended Learning Workshop. Rome, 2017. This is in addition to
 more than 30 other invited presentations at conferences and 100+ further invited academic
 talks.
 Journal editorships: CRNS staff contribute as editors-in-chief and associate editors to more
 than 20 journals, including major IEEE and open access journals. A selection of these are
 Editor-in-Chief of “Interaction Studies“ (Cangelosi) and “IEEE Transactions in Autonomous
 Mental Development” (Cangelosi), “Information and Computer Security” (Furnell), associate
 editorship of “Neural Networks“ (Borisyuk), “PLOS one” (Wennekers), “Ecological
 Informatics“ (Culverhouse), “Frontiers Neuroinformatics” (Wennekers), Frontiers
 Computational Neuroscience (Wennekers), Entertainment Computing (Belpaeme),
 International Journal of Advanced Robotic Systems (Belpaeme), Computers and Security
 (Clarke, Furnell), The Computer Journal (Oxford)(Furnell). All staff engage in regular peer-
 review of journal articles.
 Our staff serve their communities by taking multiple roles in disciplinary associations and
 learned societies: Jones serves as chair of UKCRC Membership Committee and BCS
 Appeals Committee. He is also member of UKCRC Exec and the BCS Academy Board.
 Furnell is member of the annual Wilkes Award Committee for The Computer Journal. He was
 lead contributor to the design of academic degree certification programmes for the National
 Cyber Security Centre, as well as a contributor to the international Cybersecurity Curricula
 Guidelines from the ACM/IEEE Joint Task Force. As an Associate of the Oxford Martin
 School, University of Oxford, Furnell contributed to two working groups (Building Cyber Skills
 and Leadership and Controlling Risks Through Technology and Processes) within the Global
 Cyber Security Capacity Centre. Sun served as Vice-Chair for the IEEE Communications
 Society, Multimedia Communications Technical Committee; Walker on the IEEE Task force
 on Many Objective Optimization; and Gaudl as general committee member and editor for the
 Society for the Study of Artificial Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour (AISB).


                                                                                       Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Several colleagues are IEEE Senior or Regular Members (Jones, Belpaeme, Clarke,
 Cangelosi, Stoelen, Sun); Members of the ACM (Furnell, Jones, Stoelen); Fellows of the
 British Computing Society (Jones, Clarke, Furnell, Cangelosi); a Fellow of the Institution of
 Engineering and Technology (Jones) or members of more than ten other recognised
 organisations. Four are members of the EPSRC peer review college (Jones, Belpaeme,
 Cangelosi, Borisyuk), three review for the BBSRC (Howard, Borisyuk, Wennekers) and all
 staff act as regular referees of other national, EU and overseas projects by international
 funding agencies. Senior members served extensively as external PhD examiners
 (Belpaeme, Borisyuk, Cangelosi, Clarke, Furnell, Sun, Wennekers). Wennekers was
 external reviewer for the foundation of an MSc in Computational Cognitive Neuroscience at
 Goldsmiths.

 Community and Outreach

 Examples of wider contributions to the economy and society includes Furnell’s contribution to
 the development of the Chartered Institute of Information Security new skills framework for
 information security professionals. The framework led to a change in work-based practice in the
 public and private sector (eg BT, AXA, GSK). The National Technical Authority at GCHQ has
 used it to underpin its Certified Cyber Professional Scheme.
 Stoelen is collaborating closely with local groups in Devon and Cornwall to develop agri-
 robotic harvesting systems. On a wider scale he provides open access to his low-cost Gummi
 Arm technology (https://mstoelen.github.io/GummiArm/).
 Stuart pushed forward a project with University hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust on data
 visualisation in the clinical environment, and Wennekers worked with the Westcountry River
 Trust to implement a data collection and visualisation system for their extended sensor
 networks.

 Members of the unit are active in outreach, with school visits and several activities brought
 regularly to events such as open days, showcases and science festivals. For example,
 Belpaeme, Cangelosi and Gaudl use nao-robots for social robotics and health-care
 demonstrations and Gaudl evolved gaming, VR and multi-media applications to feature at
 public events.

 The School hosts the Computing at Schools Regional Centre for the South West, which
 aims at establishing Computing firmly in all primary and secondary schools
 (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/faculties/science-engineering/cas-
 regional-centre-south-west)

 We are also actively engaged in the British Computer Science Society where Palomino chairs
 the South West branch (https://www.bcs.org/membership/member-communities/south-west-
 branch/south-west-branch-committee/)
 Finally, various research projects attracted a large amount of press interest, notably our
 impact cases about social robotics and agritech (Stoelen & Howard; Cangelosi, Belpaeme
 & Gaudl).




                                                                                          Page 18
