Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 12 - Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.0    Overview and context

 This submission comprises the Departments of Engineering Science (DES) and Materials
 (DoM). Both are within the Mathematical, Physical, and Life Sciences (MPLS) Division, one of
 four academic divisions in the University. The departments have grown significantly during the
 REF period through creation of new posts and the integration of two existing research centres
 into DES. This reflects MPLS strategic objectives to expand engineering as a discipline and
 energy as a thematic priority.

 The departments are distributed over five sites in Oxford, with the main centres co-located in the
 University Science Area. Both also maintain laboratories at the Oxford Suzhou Centre for
 Advanced Research (OSCAR) in Suzhou, China (section 4.1).

 DES is a general engineering department with 133 academics              In both DES and DoM,
 and senior researchers with a strong commitment to engineering          there is minimal hierarchy.
 without boundaries between subdisciplines. The Head of                  The flat management
 Department of DES is supported by a Deputy Head and four                structure ensures equal
 Associate Heads (Research, Teaching, Graduates, and                     research opportunities and
 Infrastructure), who together with the Head of Finance and              provision of resources.
 Administration form the Senior Management Team (SMT). The               Each submitted researcher
 Department is organised into nine research subject clusters             has autonomy in
 (section 1.1.1). DES also hosts five semi-autonomous research           establishing and leading
 institutes that facilitate research in specific areas (Fig. 1). There   research activities within
 is overlap between the clusters and institutes, with many               their group, though larger
 academic staff belonging to more than one.                              themes and ‘super-groups’
                                                                         emerge in natural
 DoM aims to make substantial contributions to agenda-setting            response to multi-faceted
 research, and to train future leaders in areas spanning theory          research challenges. The
 through to commercial applications of materials. It hosts 37            Associate Heads for
 academic and senior research staff. The SMT consists of two             Research in each
 Joint Heads of Department, two Associate Heads (Teaching and            department coordinate
 Research), the Head of Administration and Finance, and the              larger, strategic goals and
 Director of Studies. Research is grouped and coordinated                liaise with the wider
 through five complementary subject clusters (section 1.2.1).            University.


 1.1    Research Strategy: Engineering Science

 We seek to apply intellectual rigour to challenging engineering problems, ensuring timely and
 relevant research outcomes that benefit society and foster inter-disciplinarity, where appropriate.
 Our core belief is that engineering science is rooted in three guiding principles:
       1. Engineering excellence rests on a sound mathematical and scientific foundation.
       2. Problem-solving and innovation are best achieved by recognising that key concepts and
          techniques recur across many branches of engineering.
       3. Many of today’s technological challenges demand an interdisciplinary approach that
          crosses traditional engineering boundaries.

 Alongside traditional engineering disciplines, reflected in our research clusters, we also support
 broad themes, such as energy, transport, environment, and healthcare. These themes are

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 deliberately focused on key societal issues where engineering science can have significant
 impact. The creation and dissemination of new knowledge is paramount. To shepherd research
 from conception through dissemination, and ultimately through application for societal and
 economic benefit, is a core part of our mission as a department.

 The nine subject clusters (Fig. 1) are each overseen by a research committee, aiding the
 Associate Head (Research), which reports to the termly research meeting of the Departmental
 Committee. This structure allows us to respond rapidly to opportunities, for example, our recent
 initiative to set up an Energy Systems Accelerator centre.




                            Figure 1: Research Clusters and Institutes

 Forging strong relationships to understand end-user needs and uncover new research questions
 inspired by their requirements is a vital element of DES research. This approach is enabled and
 supported through strategic partnerships with industry, other external partners, and a strong
 culture of technology translation.

 As part of a strategy to increase research capacity, DES has grown by 41% from 94 to 133
 academic staff in the current REF period. Our growth strategy is based both on organic
 expansion of each research cluster and the creation or assimilation of research institutes with a
 focus on major opportunities for interdisciplinary activity. A good example is the Oxford Robotics
 Institute (ORI), which incorporates elements of robotics, machine vision, machine learning, and
 data science. Since 2017, two existing, stand-alone research units have also become part of
 DES: the Oxford e-Research Centre (OeRC), and the Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative
 Finance (following a strategic change in its research focus into applications of machine learning
 to finance).


 1.1.1   DES Research Clusters: Strategy, objectives, and future plans

 The following sections describe the strong collaboration between different areas of the DES
 research landscape and research in each of the clusters, highlighting their synergistic nature and
 relationship to DES Institutes.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Biomedical Engineering

 The Institute for Biomedical Engineering (IBME) is strategically co-located on the Churchill
 Hospital site alongside clinicians and medical scientists (including the new NHS Cancer Centre
 and the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre). This has been pivotal in delivering our key strategic
 objectives for this REF period: sustainable expansion, driven by clinical need; and high-impact
 translation of biomedical engineering research into clinical practice (with 18 clinical trials of IBME
 technologies). We have maintained the four focus areas from REF2014: non-invasive therapies
 & drug delivery; biomedical image analysis; regenerative medicine & tissue engineering;
 biomedical signal processing & e-health. We have also established and grown two new areas,
 biomaterials and neurotechnology, following the appointments of Stride and Denison to chairs.
 Net faculty numbers have increased from 15 to 21 during the period, with each of the six
 research areas led by senior chairs.

 Over the next REF period we will further develop our newer areas of biomaterials and
 neurotechnology. We also seek to establish a new area, through the establishment of a funded
 institute in youth sports medicine and technology.

 Chemical and Process Engineering

 Our research in Chemical Engineering focuses on emerging areas that directly impact human
 life and society. Since REF2014, we have added four new academics (Monroe, Kwan, Huang,
 Yang) to strengthen our underpinning strategies across biotechnology, synthetic biology,
 systems engineering, and energy.

 In biomedical technology and bioprocessing, we create enabling technologies for regenerative
 medicine, bioreactor technologies, biomaterial processing, and bio-manufacture.

 In synthetic biology and environmental biotechnology, we develop advanced biosensors and
 research CO2 biotransformation into high-value products. Biomimetic anaerobic digesters (AD)
 were developed for biomass conversion to bioenergy and chemicals leading to a 40-fold
 efficiency improvement.

 In environmental and systems engineering, we focus on the human living environment, i.e. the
 integrated design and optimisation of water-food-energy nexus, which includes wastewater
 treatment, food security, transport systems, and negative emission technologies.

 In energy conversion and storage, we develop technologies for harvesting of renewable energy,
 redox flow batteries, biofuels, green ammonia, and local production systems.

 Over the next REF period, we plan to expand research activity in medical and environmental
 biotechnology, water systems engineering, and energy storage. We also plan to establish a
 second Chair, the Professor of Process Engineering and Chemical Technology, to strength our
 links with chemistry.

 Civil and Offshore Engineering

 This cluster undertakes research in geotechnics, fluid mechanics and structures, including
 projects with overlapping themes. We have strong links with industry, especially in renewable
 energy and offshore engineering. Research activities – incorporating both experimental and
 numerical methods – range from laboratory-scale studies through to large-scale field testing and
 monitoring programmes. Since REF2014 we added nine new academics (Acikgoz, McAdam,
 Nishino, Rossi, Sheil, van den Bremer, Vogel, Adamadis, Smyth) and one academic
 (Byrne) became a RAEng Research Chair.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have continued to shift into marine renewables, with significant research on the design and
 monitoring of foundations for offshore wind turbines, supported by research councils and
 industry (including Ørsted). Within fluid mechanics, major projects have focused on non-linear
 wave mechanics including transport of plastic pollutants, wind farm and tidal farm interactional
 physics, and flows through soft porous media.

 During the next period, renewable energy (particularly offshore systems) will continue as a key
 focus. Laboratory soil element testing is emerging as a new research area, as is large-scale
 structural testing. Research on construction processes and asset management (e.g. tunnels,
 bridges, and buildings) will remain central to our strategy.

 Electrical and Optoelectronic Engineering (EOE)

 This cluster combines research in photonics, electronics, energy, communications,
 metamaterials, and computer engineering. During this REF period, academic and senior
 research staff numbers have increased from 15 to 20. New appointments have strengthened
 electrical energy (Monroe, Rogers), and photonics (Stavrinou, plus ECR fellows in diamond
 technology (Salter) and optical fibre sensing (Fells)); and have initiated new research themes in
 computer engineering (Zilbermann).

 EOE faculty advance battery and energy storage research and social/technical aspects of power
 grids for the developing world. Our photonics research covers liquid crystals, adaptive optics,
 microscopy, and laser-based manufacturing; and we continue to lead the Oxford photonics
 community across the University. We have expanded research in optical communications and
 networks, computing infrastructure, and metamaterials (supported by an EPSRC Programme
 Grant and formation of the Oxford Metamaterials Network). We developed electronic and optical
 technologies for the UK National Quantum Technologies Programme and led the systems
 engineering effort within the quantum computing (NQIT) Hub. O’Brien is Director of the follow-
 on Quantum Computing and Simulation Hub.

 We aim to appoint new chairs in Electrical Engineering and in Photonic Engineering, the latter to
 support the formation of a Photonics Engineering and Technology Institute. We will expand core
 expertise in quantum systems engineering through new academic appointments. The Energy
 Systems Accelerator (TESA), a centre for low carbon energy systems, will consolidate activities
 and efforts in energy and power systems research across academia, industry, and third sector
 organisations; a pilot phase will commence in autumn 2021.

 Information and Vision Engineering

 We explore the development, design, and deployment of the state-of-the-art in computer vision,
 machine learning, financial modelling, and robotics.

 Our primary goals for this period were to expand expertise around key leaders in machine
 learning, vision, and field robotics, and to grow links with industry. Both have been achieved. We
 have increased the number of academic and senior research staff from nine to 20. We
 established the Oxford Robotics Institute (ORI), an integrated group of researchers, engineers
 and students driven to change what robots can do for society through a diverse portfolio of
 research interests (led by Newman and Posner). The Oxford Man Institute (OMI) became part
 of DES, shifting its primary research focus to machine learning and finance (Director: Roberts).
 Researchers from the cluster have established a wide range of industrial collaborations (section
 4.3.3); within the Computer Vision group this includes creation of joint positions with DeepMind
 and Facebook (section 2.2).

 We shall continue to diversify our work into both the development and wide application of
 information engineering: the ORI will expand into soft-robotics and autonomous flight; OMI into
 discrete and continuous probabilistic optimisation; and Vision into simultaneous visual and audio
 inference, and mobile device graphics.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Control Engineering

 We make theoretical contributions to robust and distributed optimisation, predictive control, and
 data-centric and networked systems. As control engineering is an ‘underpinning’ technology, this
 research is interdisciplinary, as illustrated by our applications in biological, transport, energy,
 autonomy, and machine learning systems.

 Since 2014, the cluster has expanded from four to nine full-time academics, and now runs as a
 separate cluster. New appointments strengthened work on vehicular systems, bringing expertise
 in vehicle dynamics (Ober-Blöbaum), power systems, and hybrid vehicle charging (Goulart,
 Margellos, Gatsis), and control in biological systems (Steel). In addition, we developed
 collaborations in areas including building control, distributed optimisation, and energy storage.

 During the next REF period, we will refill the vacant chair in Control Engineering. We aim to
 expand our current areas of research to include applications covered by UKRI Grand
 Challenges, including smart cities (low carbon transportation, smart infrastructure, and building
 control), healthcare and life sciences, and energy systems.

 Solid Mechanics and Materials Engineering

 Research covers all aspects of materials and mechanics: from the nanoscale through to
 engineering components; and from fundamental analysis and new material development to the
 practical applications of established materials. Notably, we follow an integrated approach, in
 which experimental and analytical considerations combine to tackle key engineering challenges.

 The cluster has grown during the period from ten to 15 academic staff (including two joint
 appointments with DoM). New appointments have brought expertise in areas including shock
 physics (Eakins), computational and multiscale mechanics (Brassart), nanomaterials, soft
 solids, metal processing, and materials modelling (Tarleton). The Rolls-Royce UTC in Solid
 Mechanics remains at the centre of our activities (section 4.3.1); but researchers also play key
 roles in other centres, including the Bristol-Oxford Nuclear Research Centre, and the
 International Brain Mechanics and Trauma Lab. We develop and use state-of-the-art
 experimental and computational facilities, including in situ micro-analysis and multi-beam
 microscopes, extensive structural impact and shock facilities, a wide range of material synthesis
 and characterization tools, and computing clusters for cross-scale computation (section 3.3).

 We shall continue to develop research in aerospace and energy materials and undertake
 fundamental studies of complex transient processes in hierarchically structured materials and
 biological tissues. We will pursue a ‘Materials by Design’ agenda using multi-scale
 characterisation and modelling approaches. Translation of fundamental research to benefit
 industrial and clinical applications will remain a key objective.

 Thermo-fluids and Turbomachinery Engineering

 This cluster now comprises 18 faculty members. Since 2013, we have recruited seven new
 academics (Bacic, Rogers, Coull, di Mare, Leach, McGilvray, Williams) and built new links
 with two senior researchers from the OeRC (Wallom, Chen). Research includes aircraft
 propulsion, automotive engines, applied thermodynamics, and hypersonics; and we are strongly
 committed to mitigating the climate impacts caused by propulsion and power generation.

 The Oxford Thermo-fluids Institute (OTI) combines analytic/numerical models with experiments
 and ensures research impact is maximised by partnering world-class companies. It is home to
 the Rolls-Royce UTC in Heat Transfer and Aerodynamics (section 4.3.1); other industry partners
 include Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Siemens Energy, and DSTL. Our strategically important
 research in turbomachinery encompasses jet engine cooling, effects of sand deposition on
 turbines, and hypersonic flight.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our Applied Thermodynamics activity, which ranges from novel engines and compressors to
 solar concentrators, has been supported by sponsors including BP, Siemens, Honeywell
 Hymatic, and SEA. Activity in thermal propulsion is focused in our ‘Centre of Excellence’ for
 combustion engines and its follow-on Prosperity Partnership (section 4.3.1).

 In the next REF period, new activities will include zero-carbon propulsion, focussing on thermal
 systems for hydrogen and batteries, with engagement in the National Wind Tunnel 2, the Oxford-
 Cambridge Arc, Flightzero, and the Aerospace Technologies Institute.

 Oxford e-Research Centre (OeRC)

 The OeRC is a multidisciplinary applied research cluster, developing and applying innovative
 computational and information technology in both academic research and industrial applications.
 Its integration into DES (2017) was a strategic move by the University to ensure the long-term
 viability of such research as part of a broader engineering programme. Academic and senior
 research staff numbers expanded from three (REF2014) to ten.

 OeRC acts as a hub for interdisciplinary collaborations nationally and internationally, e.g.
 providing data processing expertise for the Square Kilometre Array. A growing focus has been
 research software engineering (RSE): Bush was one of the first EPSRC RSE fellows; and De
 Roure is a Co-I in the Software Sustainability Institute.

 Looking ahead, we will appoint a new chair in Interdisciplinary AI and an Associate Professor in
 Scientific Computing. We will also expand expertise in machine learning through further
 collaborations and new academic appointments, in coordination with the Information and Vision
 Engineering cluster.

 1.2     Research Strategy: Department of Materials (DoM)

 Research is grouped into five broad clusters with individual academics contributing to multiple
 themes. Strengths in these areas enable coherent identification and response to major
 intellectual and technological problems at the heart of societal and economic grand challenges.
 DoM has long-standing expertise in modelling and characterisation: the application of
 established techniques is central to work in ‘energy’, ‘manufacturing’, and ‘nanomaterials and
 nanodevices’, whilst dedicated themes focus on the development of novel methods.

 1.2.1    DoM Research Clusters: Strategy, objectives, and future plans

 Energy

 The strong socioeconomic need makes sustainable and secure energy research our largest
 theme. During the REF period, we have enhanced existing strengths in nuclear power and
 established major local and national initiatives in energy storage, while maintaining activity
 across power generation, solar/PV, and transport.

 Eight academics work on materials for nuclear power, collaborating with major industry partners,
 including Rolls-Royce, Westinghouse, and EDF Energy Plc. We have achieved our REF2014
 goal of strengthening strategic relationships with the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy (CCFE)
 and the National Nuclear User Facility (NNUF). Over ten CCFE staff hold visiting posts in DoM,
 and we are partners with CCFE in five major grants. The active atom probe for the NNUF is
 housed by DoM.

 In energy storage materials, the appointment of Bruce was followed by two further faculty
 appointments (Pasta, Weatherup), backed with substantial investment in infrastructure (section
 3.3). Interactions within and beyond DoM have pulled in expertise in processing, mechanical
 properties, characterisation, and modelling – generating substantial collaborations with industry.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Over the next period, we will expand research into materials aspects for zero-carbon energy
 systems. We will continue to pursue new battery technologies with smart processing routes,
 demonstrating scalability to aid industry translation; and strong interactions with CCFE to
 support development of fusion power technologies, maintaining international collaborations in
 existing and genIV fission power.

 Nanomaterials and Nanodevices

 New nanomaterial technologies, including quantum information processing, are strategic
 research areas aligned with globally-acknowledged challenges. Activities include fundamental
 studies of carbon-based nanomaterials, 2D and 1D materials, phase change systems, magnetic
 nanomaterials, inorganic semi-conductors, photonic materials, and device fabrication for
 quantum computation, information storage, and biosensing.

 Delivering on REF2014 plans, we have invested in infrastructure for quantum and photonic
 materials (section 3.3). The appointments of Royal Society URFs Bogani and Ares bring
 expertise in quantum transport, molecular spintronics, nanomagnetism, nanoelectronics, circuit
 quantum electrodynamics, quantum computing, and machine learning. We have significant
 programmes on quantum effects in electronic nanodevices (led by Briggs), with the potential for
 low-energy information processing; and via the quantum technology hubs (section 3.1).

 We will seek new academic recruitments in this important emerging area to maintain strength
 and address an impending retirement, using this to enhance collaboration with the National
 Quantum Computing Centre, at Harwell.

 Manufacturing

 Our strategy in manufacturing combines novel processing routes and materials innovation.
 Activities span from advancing traditional industries, such as metallurgy, to transformative new
 areas, like wearable technologies.

 Two new appointments since REF2014 support this strategy (Speller and Liotti). We have
 invested heavily in advanced manufacturing facilities (section 3.3), with significant funding via
 the Royce Institute and an Eight Great Technologies capital grant. Grant contributes to two
 national Manufacturing Hubs in Metallurgy; Bhaskaran leads activities on phase change
 materials and wearable technologies and holds an EPSRC Manufacturing Fellowship; and Reed
 is founding director of the Hitachi-Metals UTC of Metallurgy (2020). Speller and Grovenor
 established the Centre for Applied Superconductivity (section 4.3.3) which drives research
 collaborations with important regional industries.

 We will continue to deliver innovative scalable routes to materials and device manufacture
 across traditional and emerging sectors. Sustainability and reduced environmental impact will be
 increasingly important foci.

 Modelling

 Theory and simulation are integral to modern materials engineering and activities using
 established methods are embedded in all research clusters. We are also committed to
 development of new theoretical and numerical methods at a variety of time and length scales.

 The DoM modelling efforts have expanded since REF2014 through Nicholls obtaining an Early
 Career EPSRC Fellowship to combine theory with experimental characterisation, and the joint
 appointment with DES of Tarleton.
 New theory at the electronic structure/atomistic level for prediction and interpretation of NMR
 and EELS data has been developed and released through the widely-used CASTEP DFT code,
 effectively bridging modelling with characterisation activities. The open-source Wannier90 DFT

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 code developed by Yates and colleagues supports hundreds of outputs annually, particularly for
 ferroelectrics, topological insulators, and thermoelectrics.

 We will augment existing strength through recruitment of a statutory chair, and subsequently an
 Associate Professor, in materials modelling. Ahead of this, we have invested in refurbishment of
 our Materials Modelling Lab space allowing for significant growth.

 Characterisation

 Materials characterisation is a core strength of DoM, in which we continue to make significant
 strategic investment. Similar to modelling, characterisation is a key enabler for all materials
 research clusters, but we also have strength in development of new methodologies.

 Since REF2014, Lozano-Perez was awarded the title of Professor, and two researchers
 secured independent fellowships in the area of advanced characterisation of energy materials
 (Nicholls, Robertson).

 A strategic priority has been the radical improvement of our nationally-important atom probe
 tomography (APT) facility (section 3.3). We continue to develop our extensive electron
 microscopy expertise and facilities through relaunching the David Cockayne Centre for Electron
 Microscopy (DCCEM). This sustainable facility, which has been completely refurbished (~£100k)
 to create a suitable environment for housing a suite of state-of-the-art equipment and scientific
 support, facilitates research across the University and externally (section 3.3). To complement
 this strategy, we make significant scientific and leadership contributions to external facilities
 (section 4.1), including the Diamond Light Source (DLS) and the Rosalind Franklin Institute
 (RFI), in line with our REF2014 strategy of enhancing links to the Harwell Campus. Research
 groups have access to further characterisation facilities and make extensive use of facilities at
 DLS and other synchrotron facilities around the globe.

 Our strategy to replace instruments at a rate of ~1/year across the DCCEM and APT facilities is
 required to maintain state-of-the-art capabilities. An analytical (S)TEM is the next target.


 1.3   Impact Strategy

 We have taken full advantage of the University’s strategic initiatives for impact delivery and our
 impact-oriented activities have thrived in this environment. Our impact strategy is rooted in the
 concept of translating fundamental understanding, through interdisciplinarity, to practical
 deployment. Our approach is to provide researchers with the freedom and support needed to
 build impact activities that best fit their situation. The development of impact is a central mission
 for all researchers – enabled by dedicating infrastructure, resources, and facilities to transfer
 science to practice; and by encouraging innovative partnerships with industry (section 4). We
 have significant translation of biomedical technologies through partnership with Oxford Medical
 Sciences in clinical trials. We provide numerous specialist services to industry (e.g. section 3.3).
 Many of our major research programmes are undertaken jointly with industry, the success of
 which is evidenced through several of our Impact Case Studies.

 Due to the applied nature of activity in this UoA, much of the research is geared towards end-
 user needs from inception. To maximise the application and impact of research outputs, our
 researchers are encouraged and supported to make extensive use of Oxford University
 Innovation (OUI) for IP protection, licensing, and spin-out of their research (section 4.4).
 Commercialisation through all these routes is seen as a core part of our academic activities and
 is recognised as such in reviews and appraisals. Mechanisms are in place to enable researchers
 to undertake secondments to external partners, such as spin-outs or other industry, through
 flexible contractual arrangements (section 2.2 and 4.4).
 Furthermore, we seek to engage with policy development in the UK and internationally through
 policy initiatives and participation in advisory bodies, with influence ranging from microplastics

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pollution to effects of automation on society (section 4.4). This is best illustrated by Newman’s
 appointment as a member of the Prime Minister’s Council for Science and Technology.

 Both departments are successful in obtaining funds from the Oxford EPSRC Impact Acceleration
 Account, with 20 projects totalling approximately £1.1m. (For illustrative examples see sections
 4.3.2 and 4.4).

 1.4   Open Research

 We strive to promote a broader Open Research environment in line with the University Strategic
 Plan. Both departments encourage the use of the institutional repository, the Oxford Research
 Archive (ORA) for all types of research output (from journals and conferences to “grey matter”,
 such as pre-prints, theses, book chapters, and figures) and accompanying datasets. We have
 also deposited over 100 underlying research data sets into ORA-Data, which is curated and
 preserved, ensuring long-term availability and access. Furthermore, both departments have an
 established tradition of open-source code and software (section 1.2.1 Modelling and 4.4 for
 examples).

  Beyond supporting open research, we are also driving the agenda. In the OeRC, Sansone’s
  team works to transform the data landscape and create an open research environment
  through Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable data for human and machine
  reading (FAIR) [see impact case study]. This includes interoperability standards, educative
  steps to motivate and encourage researchers to share high-quality data, and data readiness.
  Whilst being encouraged locally, these FAIR Principles are also finding their way into
  Government, major funder, and publisher policies to greater support access and preservation
  of research findings. Sansone’s team also designs and develops open-source software to
  improve collection, representation, sharing, and publication of multi-dimensional data.


 1.5   Interdisciplinarity

 Much of our research is interdisciplinary by its very nature. We seek to sustain interdisciplinary
 approaches through a mix of practical arrangements and organisational structures. These
 include: leadership of/participation in internal and external networks (sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.5);
 co-location (from lab moves or refurbishments designed to cluster cognate research groups
 together to building the IBME on the medical campus to facilitate clinical collaboration and
 application); and the use of Institutes as a focus for collaboration (e.g. the OMI providing a link
 between machine learning and finance).


 1.6   Research Integrity and Reproducibility

 Our commitment to upholding standards of research integrity and reproducibility is guided by the
 principles and policies outlined in the institutional statement. In addition to the common
 University approach to research ethics and integrity, there are some areas where bespoke
 approaches are required. Our biomedical research draws upon ethics procedures in the Medical
 Sciences Division. For our work in artificial intelligence, we are developing an ethics framework
 that will draw upon experience in Computer Science.

 Furthermore, De Roure brings expertise through his involvement in the Steering Group for
 Reproducible Research Oxford (RROx), a University-wide initiative focused on advancing the
 open research agenda, open scholarship, and research reproducibility that extends to all
 disciplines. As an example of where responsible research was a central to a large-scale
 programme, the Networked Quantum Information Technologies hub ran a theme on responsible
 research and innovation. Specific training in this area is also provided through the Autonomous
 Intelligent Machines and Systems (AIMS) CDT, which concentrates on ethical, legal, and
 societal consequences of the application of artificial intelligence.

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 2.1       Academic staff strategy

 We believe that delivering and sustaining cutting-edge research depends on the ability to attract,
 recruit, develop, and retain world-leading staff. During the period, both departments increased
 their research capacity through new faculty appointments, with 15% growth in DoM and 33% in
 DES. In DoM, energy storage materials was a key focus for expansion; in DES, the goal was to
 grow capacity in all research areas, but with higher growth in identified key areas such as
 Biomedical and Information Engineering. To promote sustainability, our strategy is to create new
 posts at all career stages, adopting a range of strategies to support critical mass in expanding
 areas:
       •    Research fellowship applications are encouraged at all levels to support academic career
            development [13 new posts in period].
       •    Academics with strong expanding research portfolios were supported in moving to senior
            research leadership roles [six posts] and an additional chair was created [one post].
       •    External funding was obtained to pump-prime new permanent research fellows in key
            areas for growth [net eight posts].
       •    The creation of four- or five-year career development positions [net 13 posts].
       •    Three more traditional academic posts were created.

 The success of these strategies is illustrated by the growth in robotics: during the period, a team
 of two academics has become eight, including a new research leadership post, a fellowship, and
 three career development positions.

 These policies have created demographic shifts towards early-career and research-intensive
 roles. For example, in DES, junior career development positions now account for 8% of
 academic roles [2014, 1%], early career research fellows for 5% [2014,0%], senior fellowship
 positions for 19% [2014, 10%], and senior research leadership roles for 10% [2014, 4%].
 Traditional mid-career academic roles now account for only 50% of academic posts [2014, 70%].
 This shift supports both current and future management of research and, in particular, has
 provided the capacity to manage large research portfolios and programme grants.

 Academic staff development strategy

 New academic appointments have an initial five-year term, with a first formal review after two
 years and a final review in the fifth year. Both departments operate a mentoring system.
 Teaching and administration loads are individually tailored to ensure new academic staff gain
 relevant experience, but also have sufficient time to build a research track record. All academic
 staff are encouraged to take sabbatical leave, including during their probationary period.

 New appointees receive departmental funding to launch their research programmes and support
 in applications for University funding. Standard start-up funds (£20k for Associate Professors,
 £10k Departmental Lecturers; and, in DES, funds for a postgraduate scholarship) are
 augmented for those with major equipment needs. Recent examples include Monroe, Rossi,
 Maiolino, Zilberman, Kwan, Steel and Denison in DES and Weatherup in DoM. Across the
 two departments, over £2.7M has been provided in start-up funds for new hires during the REF
 period.

 New appointees receive graduate supervision training, supplemented by colleagues acting as
 mentors or co-supervisors. New students are assigned to them wherever feasible, to assist with
 the growth of their research group. In both departments, the Associate Head (Research) works
 closely with Research Support teams, who assist with review and preparation of grant proposals,
 and new academic staff are encouraged to take advice on proposals from colleagues.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Beyond the initial five-year period, continued support is given to staff to develop their careers.
 Fellowship applications are strongly supported in both departments (section 3.1). Systems of
 self-appraisal and optional one-to-one appraisals with the Head of Department provide an
 opportunity to reflect on work objectives, achievements, and difficulties; and on any support,
 career development, or training needs. Discussions cover workload and aspirations for
 promotion, including internal or external recognition exercises. In the wider University, leadership
 development and mentoring schemes provide opportunities for staff to develop in roles both
 within and beyond their home department.

 Academic staff recruitment

 Across the departments, academic posts are almost exclusively recruited by international open
 competition. Search committees are tasked to publicise widely. Interview panel chairs undergo
 recruitment and equality training provided by the University. Selection processes involve
 thorough engagement with the research proposals. Each stage of the process is subject to
 review for equality considerations. We usually have exceptional fields of applicants from
 academia and industry around the world, so recruitment is facilitated through relocation
 packages. Notable examples where we have successfully attracted academic talent directly from
 overseas universities and industry include Monroe (University of Michigan, USA), Pasta
 (Stanford University, USA), Brassart (Monash University, Australia), Rossi (KU Leuven,
 Belgium) and Denison (Medtronic PLC, USA). Before Zilberman’s recent post at Cambridge,
 she was a senior engineer at Broadcom.

 2.2   Recruitment and development strategies – research staff

 Recruitment and integration

 Appointments for research staff, mostly post-doctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs), are made
 following an openly-advertised competition. New advertising methods, including field-specific
 social media, are used to ensure the best possible pool of applicants and to encourage under-
 represented groups to apply. Chairs and members of recruitment panels are required to
 complete a recruitment and selection training course. DES recruits to an average of 60 posts per
 year and DoM 25.

 Both departments run activities to help integrate staff into the research culture and ensure they
 are provided with support to help them thrive. Induction processes and formal probation
 processes exist for all new research staff. Information is provided about personal development
 resources (Career Services, Centre for Teaching and Learning, etc.) and University-wide
 mentoring and networking opportunities. Supervisors receive guidance on management, and all
 research positions have formal specifications with required tasks set out clearly and
 transparently. Supervisors undertake annual formal performance reviews. Through informal
 career development review schemes, PDRAs can discuss career goal planning with a senior
 academic who is not their supervisor. In DES, a Staff Development Manager has been
 appointed to strengthen further this support. DoM runs a mentoring scheme on a voluntary basis
 for interested researchers.

 Both departments have committees specifically to look after the interests of research staff, with
 close engagement from senior departmental leadership. DoM has established the Materials
 Postdoc Association Committee (MPAC), which is represented on various departmental
 committees. In DES, there is a Researcher Committee, co-chaired by the Associate Head
 (Research) and a post-doctoral researcher. It organises an annual Researcher Conference and
 other events specifically targeted at PDRAs, such as termly welcome lunches.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Training and career development

 Both departments implement the Concordat for Contract Research Staff. The entitlement to 10
 days per annum for professional development is well-publicised, with researchers directed to
 courses/workshops provided by the University. These include:

    •   face-to-face and online learning on leadership, management, and personal effectiveness;
    •   entrepreneurship, innovation, and intellectual property;
    •   scientific writing, public engagement, and research management;
    •   courses, support, and services for teaching;
    •   IT training courses and advice about educational technology, such as digital whiteboards;
    •   writing fellowship applications;
    •   courses and resources for staff who need foreign languages for their research, work, or
        personal development;
    •   career discussions and career development workshops.

 Researchers are encouraged to undertake teaching to gain experience required for academic
 posts, with many holding lecturer positions in the University’s colleges. DES has introduced
 Teaching Assistant positions, which allow PDRAs to develop specialist teaching experience
 through small group tutorials as part of the undergraduate course. In DoM, further support is
 given through Teaching Skills Workshops on delivering classes and lab demonstrating; these
 roles are taken up by many research staff.

 Destinations

 We actively support the career aspirations of our research staff. PDRAs are encouraged to apply
 for permanent academic posts or personal research fellowships, with departmental training
 sessions complementing University provision. These sessions have included inviting grant-giving
 bodies (e.g. EPSRC) to run workshops on-site. Senior academics act as fellowship champions
 and mentors who, together with the Research Support teams, advise on and facilitate applying
 to the most suitable schemes. More generally, researchers are supported, where possible, in
 applying for research funding (section 3.2). The opportunity to undertake consultancy work can
 be used by researchers interested in careers outside academia to explore wider options.
 Information from exit questionnaires is used to improve the experience of researchers and
 inform strategy; the establishment of researcher forums and mentoring schemes at DoM are
 active examples.

 All this support facilitates successful research career progression beyond Oxford. Examples
 include Dr Thomas Morstyn (from a PDRA position to an EPSRC Innovation Fellowship at DES
 to a Lectureship in Power Electronics and Smart Grids at Edinburgh); and Dr Ramil Nigmatullin
 (who moved from a PDRA position at DoM to a Lectureship at the University of Sydney).

 In the REF period, 46% of leaving PDRAs joined another University (UK or overseas), 23%
 moved to the private sector, and 5% moved to the public sector (including research institutes).

 Recognising and rewarding research and impact

 Both departments support the professional development of academic staff and encourage use of
 the University’s career progression structures, including applications for full Professor title under
 the annual Recognition of Distinction scheme, which recognises strengths in research, teaching,
 and good academic citizenship. During the period, 27 UoA members were awarded the title.
 Those who hold such professorships can also apply for merit awards, with salary supplements.

 In order to provide incentives, and modest amounts of flexible funding, DES operates a research
 recognition scheme, where 1% of recovered overheads is returned to the grant holders in the
 form of an “academic support fund”. Over the REF period, this has amounted to over £450k to

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support activities such as conference attendance, purchasing small equipment, or short research
 visits.

 Our success in creating a culture of impact and innovation is demonstrated through the
 recognition of our researchers’ activities through prizes and awards, such as those from the
 MPLS Division. Since 2014, UoA members have won six MPLS Impact Awards and one Public
 Engagement with Research Award.

 2.3       Research students

 Recruitment strategies

 We recruit PGRs mainly through a central open competition, although there are some project-
 specific positions that are advertised separately. Our goal is to recruit the best-qualified students
 whose interests align with our academics’ programmes. There is an overall upward trend in
 applications, offers and places. Intake has increased from 151 in 2013/14 to 220 in 2019/20, with
 a broadly consistent average of 5 applicants per place.

 Approximately 20% of DES’s doctoral students are female, mirroring the profile of the
 undergraduate population. Offer rates for male and female doctoral applicants are identical.

 To encourage undergraduates to consider careers in research, both departments support their
 engagement in research and encourage research group placements during summer vacations.
 In 2019, DES launched a research internship programme allowing up to 20 2nd/3rd year Oxford
 MEng students to spend a fully-funded eight-week placement in a research group. Feedback
 from the initial cohort of students has been very positive.

 Funding

 A total of 148 studentships were supported through UKRI’s competitively-awarded Centres for
 Doctoral Training (CDTs). The UoA jointly led (*) or contributed to training through the following
 CDTs (start dates in brackets):
       •    Autonomous Intelligent Machines and Systems (2014, 2019)*
       •    Gas Turbine Aerodynamics (2014); Future Propulsion and Power (2019)*
       •    Renewable Energy Marine Structures (2014); Wind and Marine Energy Systems and
            Structure (2019)*
       •    Synthetic Biology (2014)*
       •    Science and Technology of Fusion Energy (2014)
       •    Diamond Science and Technology (2014)
       •    Theory & Modelling in Chemical Sciences (2014)
       •    Biomedical Imaging (2014)
       •    Health Data Science (2019)
       •    Sustainable Approaches to Biomedical Science (2014); SABS:R3 (2019)

 Others are funded through competitive studentships held by the University and its colleges, or
 from other UKRI sources (including Oxford’s EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP)
 grants). During the period, >225 students were wholly or partially funded through these
 mechanisms, including >60 CASE/iCASE studentships, including via Rolls-Royce (14), UKAEA
 (6), Jaguar Land Rover (5), and Toshiba (4).

 Finally, over 200 students were wholly or partially funded by industry via direct studentships,
 including from Rolls-Royce, EON, Facebook, and Diamond Light Source.

 Most scholarships awarded over the past seven years have been full studentships (covering
 bursary + fees), although some are either fees-only or bursary-only.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Support, monitoring and career development

 All new PGRs receive departmental and group-level inductions and safety training. They are
 able to attend advanced taught courses given in the undergraduate MEng programmes. PGR
 supervision is monitored quarterly through online reporting, which includes self-assessment by
 the student to encourage ownership of performance and project scope. Reports are reviewed by
 the Director of Graduate Studies. In DoM, each student has an additional advisor who can be
 approached for support. Where relevant, students are also mentored through their CDTs. PGRs
 receive formal or informal mentoring through their research group and are supported by advisors
 in their colleges. Supervision reports also cover training needs; any training undertaken is
 recorded through this system.

 Progress through two stages of independent review is required during research towards a DPhil
 (PhD) or MSc. These are undertaken by short written reports and interviews with two
 independent assessors, usually at the end of the first and second years.

 PGRs have full access to the University’s extensive researcher training programmes, as
 described in section 2.2. Training is also provided to doctoral students who wish to demonstrate,
 work as teaching assistants in undergraduate classes and tutorials, or assist with open days,
 access, and outreach programmes. Other departmental training/support includes:

    •   in DES, a student-led session entitled “Owning a successful DPhil”;
    •   encouragement to explore relevant internships with industry or other organisations;
    •   conference travel funding.

 DES and DoM nourish a culture of collaboration to make students feel integrated and to ensure
 they are fully engaged with all aspects of research practice. It is common practice at research
 group level for PGRs to lead seminars, reading, and discussion groups. They are encouraged to
 use their initiative to create valuable collaboration and networking opportunities through links to
 other groups and institutions.

 PGRs have representation in termly committees in both departments. In DoM, this is a student-
 led committee consisting of student and staff members that feeds recommendations back to the
 department. In DES, the graduate student chair attends the Departmental Graduate Studies
 Committee to represent the views of the community.

 Both departments operate ad-hoc studentships each year for students with only three years of
 funding who have experienced delays beyond their control: a ‘continuation bursary’ provides
 continued support to complete their studies. On average, from all cohorts expected to submit
 within the REF period, 90% of our research students successfully completed their doctorate.
 Moreover, 80% of the latest cohort of students to complete standard DPhil programmes
 (excluding CDTs) have finished within four years, which shows an upward trend during the REF
 period [cf. 64% for the first cohort finishing in period].

 The quality of the training, support and research environment is reflected in the latest destination
 survey (2014-17) with a high employment rate (92%), 3% continuing studies, 2.5% seeking
 employment, and 2.5% not looking for employment.

 According to the University’s Student Barometer Survey, in 2014 overall satisfaction at PGR
 level was at 90.4%, rising to 91.2% in 2019. This puts the UoA above the national average
 satisfaction in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), which was 82% in 2014
 and 81% in 2019.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4   Research/impact leave and support for external interaction

 We reward those who excel in research and aim to provide structures within which their research
 and its impact can thrive, whilst balancing other responsibilities. This includes sabbatical leave,
 flexible duties, consultancy, and fixed-term reduction in FTE; a small number of researchers
 have permanent joint posts with an industry partner.

 Sabbatical leave is available to academic staff on permanent contracts, whether full or part-time;
 taking leave is actively encouraged for staff within their first five years to help consolidate their
 research programme. In the UoA, 79 academics have taken sabbatical leave during the REF
 period, equivalent to over 220 terms in total.

 In DES, teaching and administration duties are reduced for those with research leadership
 positions or with more than 40% of their time on awarded grants. The ability of academics to
 move to research-intensive career roles has helped capitalise upon significant opportunities to
 expand research activities. For example, O’Brien was able to take up directorship of the
 Quantum Computing and Simulation hub.

 All academic and research staff are entitled to up to 30 days of outside work per year: they can
 use this to support impact through their spin-out companies, or for consultancy with other
 external organisations.

 Staff can apply for a fixed-term reduction in contractual hours (or other arrangements) to support
 longer-term working with external sectors as a route to impact or to enhance their research. This
 option was taken up at all faculty levels, from staff within their first 5 years to established chairs.
 Examples have included one year’s full-time leave or a longer period of part-time leave to work
 for a spin-out, and part-time contract secondments to industry. Eight permanent academic staff
 in the UoA have used such arrangements with either spin-outs (e.g. Oxbotica: Newman; Bodle:
 Bhaskaran) or industry partners (including DeepMind: Mudigonda and Zisserman; Facebook:
 Vedaldi; Niantic: Prisacariu). Allen and Korsunsky have been seconded to senior scientist
 positions at Diamond Light Source.

 Research students have also been supported in taking on secondments and internships. In
 these circumstances, student status can be suspended so that the time spent with external
 parties does not affect the completion time for research degrees.

 2.5   Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (ED&I)

 Departmental strategies

 We seek to create a diverse academic community within a framework and culture of equality,
 promoting the University’s commitments and action plans for race and gender equality and
 supporting staff and students with disabilities. Both departments have an ED&I Committee to
 embed equality and diversity within their activities, promote these messages, and measure their
 progress through data review and staff surveys. Both also hold Athena SWAN bronze awards.

 ED&I considerations start from recruitment, with academic positions advertised widely. For
 example, DES advertises in Women into Science and Engineering, the Association for Black
 Engineers, and the National Society for Black Engineers. For permanent academic roles, both
 departments use search committees which are charged with reaching out to a diverse range of
 candidates. Evidence of the success of this in terms of gender equality was the appointment of
 ten women candidates to permanent academic roles within the UoA in the REF period (25% of
 appointments). This extends to PDRA positions as well, with >20% of the new appointments for
 the last three years being female. Members of recruitment panels attend ED&I training and
 formal gateways are in place during the recruitment process for permanent academic roles to
 check that the applicants and shortlist demonstrate diversity.


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Both departments have utilised the Vice-Chancellor’s diversity fund to benefit staff (e.g. to
 redevelop the DES recruitment website to encourage more diverse applications).

 Flexible and remote working

 Both departments engage with the University strategy encouraging working pattern flexibility and
 family support. Department-wide arrangements (e.g. ensuring committee timings allow for those
 with childcare responsibilities to attend), and individual arrangements (such as timetabling of
 lectures) can be formalised to support individual needs. Part-time working arrangements include
 reduced hours to support caring responsibilities. For example, in response to a staff survey, the
 DoM made changes to offer part-time working for PDRAs, where external grant contracts allow
 (e.g. longer platform or programme grants).

 Pre-COVID, we supported remote working requests where possible. Examples include
 supporting a colleague through over a year of remote working for health reasons, and others to
 support caring responsibilities. During summer months, where possible, DoM offers staff a 9-day
 fortnight, to allow a day away to help with childcare over school holidays.

 Networking, career development, and research leadership roles

 Women in Engineering and Women in Materials Science groups were launched in 2012 and
 2017, respectively. The groups are open to all genders, staff and students alike, and aim to
 provide a safe and supportive environment in which to identify and tackle problems facing those
 who identify as women and to recognise and celebrate their contributions.

 UoA members support the University LGBTQ Staff Network, the BME Staff Network, and the
 BIPOC STEM network. DES has provided financial support to the LGBTQ+STEMinar
 Conference. Both departments have an EDI Fellow, a staff member representing the department
 on University groups, helping to raise awareness of EDI issues, and leading on related activities.

 The process for promotion to “Professor” takes career breaks into account. In career
 discussions, staff are encouraged to consider research-related leadership roles. The Oxford
 Senior Women’s Mentoring Network supports women aiming for leadership roles. Over the REF
 period the departments have seen men and women take on leadership positions within the
 University, and at national and international bodies. Examples include: Grobert (Chair, Young
 Academy of Europe; Chair, Group of Chief Scientific Advisors to the European Commission;
 AssocHoD (Research)), Noble (Associate Head of MPLS Division (Industry and Innovation);
 Director of IBME), and Sansone (Honorary Academic Editor, Springer Nature Scientific Data).

 All academic staff have access to funding to support conference attendance and travel. All
 research students are guaranteed funding to attend at least one relevant conference during their
 studies (underwritten by the departments if no grant funding is available).

 All academic staff are encouraged to make funding applications to both external and internal
 funds. Sabbatical leave applies to full-time and part-time academic staff alike. All staff have
 access to the University’s training programmes.

 Support for carers, ill health, and those returning from periods of leave

 Both departments provide support to those taking parental leave, above contractual and
 statutory provision. DES recently agreed an extended formal scheme to support academics
 taking parental leave, providing reductions in teaching and administration alongside funding to
 support commitments to their research group and their own on-going personal development. In
 DoM, parental leave, career breaks, and part-time working are considered in reviewing
 performance, and the focus is upon the quality of research output. Academics returning after
 maternity leave have no departmental teaching and reduced administrative loading for a year.
 Ahead of leave, an academic is appointed to maintain continuity of group activity.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Both departments have purchased sponsored priority places at the four University-owned
 nurseries and offer the “My Family Care” programme to departmental staff.

 Four staff members have used the University’s Returning Carers Fund to support development
 of their research following a career break. Small grants financed conference attendance,
 collaborators visits, technician support, coaching, and support with website design. DES has
 also hosted two externally-funded Daphne Jackson Fellows, returning to the workplace in part-
 time contracts after a period of leave.

 Support for staff with protected characteristics

 Staff and students alike have access to the University’s Disability Advisory Service and a range
 of support and adaptations are available, including alternative software and equipment, support
 with communication needs, and coaching.

 Staff and student wellbeing

 Both departments offer a range of wellbeing initiatives, in addition to the substantial University
 provision. Examples have included providing trained mental health first aiders, additional
 counselling, arranging for free confidential health checks, and organising well-being training
 days.

 Consideration of equality and diversity in REF preparations

 ED&I considerations were thoroughly monitored throughout the UoA REF preparations,
 according to the institutional code of practice. Our primary criterion for output selection was
 research quality. To mitigate unconscious bias, an output selection advisory group with diverse
 representation was convened to define policy for output selection and ensure that processes did
 not unfairly disadvantage groups within the UoA. Eligible staff were asked to nominate up to five
 outputs for consideration, which were reviewed internally by at least two academic referees. This
 process was supported by use of an in-house Excel tool, which worked from anonymised output
 identifiers and scores, without reference to any protected characteristic. At each stage, the
 advisory group monitored the distribution of outputs and was able to query any matters of
 concern. UoA members were able to raise confidentially through the institutional structures any
 matters that might affect their contributions.

 An equality analysis of the resulting distribution shows:
    •   14.7% of submitted outputs are attributed to ECRs (average 1.68 per ECR);
    •   One ECRs was attributed 5 outputs;
    •   An average of 2.74 outputs have been attributed to male and 1.81 to female staff.

 The proportion of eligible staff in the UoA who are female (15%) is closely comparable with the
 University’s average across panel B (17%). Our successful recruitment strategies have
 contributed to an increase in this figure since REF2014. Consequently, we now have a much
 higher proportion of female researchers in younger demographics than previously. It is normal
 for more junior academics to have fewer attributed outputs, which explains the lower average for
 outputs attributed to female staff. We therefore expect the male/female outputs ratio to improve
 further over the next REF period.




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1   Research Funding

 Average annual research income during the current REF period was £49M, more than twice the
 figure for the REF2014 period (£22.6M). The aggregate split of funding sources over the period
 is shown in Fig. 2 below:




                       Figure 2: UoA Income profile during the REF period

 Reflecting long-term local and institutional strategies, we have diversified the sources of
 research income to achieve a more balanced, sustainable portfolio. We have also achieved our
 objective of securing more ‘longer, larger’ grants, particularly from EPSRC (see Table 1 below).
 We have obtained more than £33M from Innovate UK in the REF period (64 projects) with a
 strong focus on translational research and hence a faster, or more direct, route to impact.

 The strength of our relationship with industry is evidenced by the £56M of industry income during
 the REF period (£75M of direct funding secured since FY13-14). Much of this activity is housed
 within Centres of Excellence, set up through industry partnership, or our UTCs (section 4.3.1),
 one of which was established during the REF period.

 The UoA boasts upwards of 150 industry sponsors from myriad sectors across the globe. A
 select list includes Amazon, Facebook, JLR, GSK, Samsung, Continental, Johnson Matthey,
 Rolls-Royce, Dyson Technology, EDF Energy, Ørsted, and the Man Group.

 Major funded strategic initiatives initiated during the REF period include two Prosperity
 Partnerships (section 4.3) and these seven major EPSRC-funded Programme Grants led by the
 UoA:




                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                                                          Principal       Value
  Title
                                                                          Investigator    (GBP)
  Hydrogen in metals - from fundamentals to the design of new
                                                                          Cocks           5,481,675
  steels (HEmS)

  Mobile Robotics: Enabling a Pervasive Technology of the Future          Newman          4,991,610

  OxCD3: Oxford Centre for Drug Delivery Devices                          Coussios        6,384,336

  Seebibyte: Visual Search for the Era of Big Data                        Zisserman       4,466,184

  Transpiration Cooling Systems for Jet Engine Turbines and
                                                                          Ireland         6,136,938
  Hypersonic Flight

  Enabling next generation lithium batteries                              Bruce           6,799,833

  Quantum Effects in Electronic Nanodevices (QuEEN)                       Briggs          5,296,044
                                                                          Total           39,556,620
           Table 1: Large programme grants (>£4M) led by the UoA during the REF period

 Amongst the many notable outputs and outcomes from these programmes, we highlight:

    •     Seebibyte: has produced over 169 outputs in the field of computer vision, and 81
          engagement activities, including workshops, talks, and presentations. The project has
          created 22 software and technical products, used across disciplines like medicine,
          zoology, medieval languages, and anthropology to analyse large datasets in a fast and
          robust manner.

    •     Enabling next generation lithium batteries: The grant had very high impact beyond
          direct research outputs: it is the progenitor of the Faraday Institution (FI, section 4.1) and
          several investigators became FI founding members. Outputs supported the case to
          Government that a strong consortium with experts inside and outside battery science is
          needed to advance lithium battery technology. This led to Faraday Challenge funding of
          £250M being released, including £80M supporting FI’s fundamental battery research.

    •     OxCD3: resulted in three new clinical trials of device-enhanced drug delivery for cancer:
          TarDox for ultrasound-triggered drug release in liver tumours; PanDox in pancreas,
          which recently obtained ethical approval to commence; and CEeDD received major NIHR
          funding to investigate cavitation-enhanced drug delivery in colorectal liver metastases.

 The research vision of our academics has been widely recognised and supported through
 significant personal research grants and fellowships:
    •     ERC Grants: Four Starting (Bogani, Hofmann, MacMinn, Vedaldi), three Consolidator
          (Bogani, Tan, Warner), three Advanced (Booth, Noble, Torr), and four Proof of
          Concept (Booth, Grobert x2, Noble).
    •     During the REF period, six senior academics were appointed to prestigious Research
          Chairs:
             o Zisserman, Royal Society Research Professor;
             o Petrinic, Rolls-Royce/RAEng Professor of Impact Engineering;
             o Byrne, Ørsted/RAEng Research Professor in Advanced Geotechnical Design;
             o Torr, Five AI/RAEng Research Professor in Computer Vision;
             o Denison, RAEng Research Professor in Emerging Technologies;
             o Roberts, Man Group/RAEng Professor of Machine Learning.

                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       •    The following personal Research Fellowships have been held:
                o   Ten EPSRC Fellowships (Bhaskaran, Bush, Salter, Fells, Jerusalem, Morstyn,
                    Nicholls, Papachristodolou, Tarleton, Willden).
                o   Six Royal Academy of Engineering Research Fellowships (Henriques,
                    Namburete, Zhu, Sheil, Van den Bremer, Bonilla).
                o   Six Royal Society URFs (Castrejon-Pita, Fallon, Morris, Robertson, Ares,
                    Bogani) and one Royal Society Industry Fellowship (Grobert)
                o   Two Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 Fellowships (Acikgoz, Lui).
                o   One Sir Henry Wellcome Research Fellowship (Sailem)

 Further notable funded research activity includes the following examples:

       •    O’Brien leads the £24M EPSRC Quantum Computing and Simulation Hub, with Smith
            and Benjamin leading workpackages. All three led workpackages in the previous £38M
            Networked Quantum Information Technologies Hub, also led by Oxford, in which O’Brien
            was Co-Director (Systems Engineering) and Smith and Benjamin were Associate
            Directors.

       •    In geotechnics (Civil Engineering), significant grants totalling over £14M linked to industry
            include the Carbon Trust/industry (PISA), EPSRC/industry (ALPACA) and Ørsted/RAEng
            (PICASO) [see impact case study]. Major projects in fluid mechanics have included wave
            transport of plastic pollutants (EPSRC/IFD/RAEng), wind and tidal physics
            (EPSRC/E.ON), and flows through soft porous media (ERC/EPSRC).

 3.2        Research and impact support

 The UoA has five full-time professional staff in dedicated Research Offices supporting funding
 applications. This includes support in finding and applying for funding at all career levels
 preparing costings, assisting with policy compliance around funding bodies and their publication
 regulations, ResearchFish, and working with the MPLS Industrial Research Partnerships (IRP)
 team to increase the volume of industry-funded work.

 In DES, 12 project managers support research and impact. In DoM, five project assistants
 provide equivalent support, along with managers recruited for specific large projects. Project
 managers work on high-value portfolios and collaborate closely with the Research Offices and
 the projects/finance teams to ensure seamless support throughout.

 Our impact activities have benefitted greatly through extensive interactions with OUI, which
 advises on intellectual property, commercialisation, and spin-out processes (section 4.4). This is
 facilitated through scheduled workshops, regular on-site “surgery” sessions, and proactive
 engagement with individual researchers at all levels.

 The UoA has dedicated teams to facilitate research impact (including the DES Communications,
 Events, and Marketing team). They support communication with key audiences (including
 prospective, partners, collaborators, decision-makers, and industry) about research findings and
 potential applications, impact, teaching, outreach, and industry collaborations.

 3.3       Infrastructure and facilities supporting research and impact

 We continue to maintain and expand our array of specialised, often unique facilities. We
 highlight prominent examples below.

 The civil engineering structures laboratory’s testing capabilities have been substantially
 enriched over the REF period with new control systems, a biaxial shake table, and a fatigue
 testing rig (£700k). Numerous systems have also been commissioned to support field testing
 and structural health monitoring, facilitating links with industrial partners including Network Rail,

                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ward & Burke, and Arup. Wave mechanics laboratories have been enhanced through a new
 current and wave flume funded from institutional sources (£300k). A new laboratory for
 advanced soil element testing was established, with £400k of equipment co-funded by Oxford
 and industry, as part of the PISA project.

 At the OTI, an Aerospace Technologies Institute infrastructure grant and a large hardware
 donation from Rolls-Royce enhanced the existing Oxford Turbine Research Facility. £13M of
 investment enabled a step change in capability for high-temperature and high-pressure turbine
 research and testing. Our hypersonic wind tunnels facilities are the most capable test facilities
 in the UK after being upgraded as part of a Government investment in aerospace – with
 research sponsors including ESA, Reaction Engines, DSTL, USA Dept. of Defense, and USAF.
 The instruments are now part of the National Wind Tunnel Facility.

 We have made significant investment in infrastructure for Solid Mechanics and Materials
 Engineering. The Laboratory for in-situ Microscopy and Analysis has been strengthened by
 the addition of further thermo-mechanical testing apparatus. Mechanical workshop facilities have
 been significantly enhanced with the addition of eight CNC or hybrid machines. Two new wire
 EDM machines are supported by specialist technicians, enabling important capability for
 evaluation of novel aerospace materials, where specimens are taken from complex
 components. By closely integrating technical support, we have unique capability to rapidly
 design and build apparatus for experimental activities, allowing us to address challenging
 problems with partners across the University and industry, including Rolls-Royce, DSTL,
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and EDF.

 The David Cockayne Centre for Electron Microscopy (DCCEM) in DoM provides a facility for
 materials characterisation, housing three TEMs, seven SEMs, three Ga FIB-SEMs, a Xe plasma
 FIB-SEM-SIMS, and sample preparation equipment, supported by six instrument scientists and
 technicians. DCCEM instruments are run as a sustainable facility serving the department, wider
 University, and external users (including internationally through access schemes such as
 ESTEEM3). This central facility is complemented at the research group level by an extensive
 range of cutting-edge electron, X-ray, atomic, and magnetic force microscopes.


    A strategic priority has been the radical improvement of DoM’s atom probe tomography
    (APT) facility, the only such capability in the UK. This now consists of three atom probe
    instruments, one of which was funded by the National Nuclear User Facilities (value
    £3.9M). This sustainable facility has two staff scientists undertaking studies for many
    groups spanning multiple departments, universities, and industry. APT research includes
    superalloys for aerospace applications, structural materials for fusion and fission power,
    semiconductors, geological, and biological materials.


 Delivering on REF2014 plans, DoM invested in infrastructure for nanomaterials and
 nanodevices, expanding the suite of dilution fridges to four, with funding in place for two more.
 We have refurbished three photonics laboratories, two laboratories for Molecular & Quantum
 Materials, and refreshed clean room facilities by upgrading electron beam lithography
 instrumentation and investing in new reactive ion etching equipment. The Sir Henry Royce
 Institute has funded £7.7M of equipment for battery synthesis, cycling, and characterisation
 in DoM, housed in approximately 1,000m2 of refurbished laboratory space. We have also
 continued to invest in large facilities based mostly at Begbroke Science Park (details below).

 Significant investment (>£1.6M capital) in high performance computing and technical support
 personnel has been made to support ongoing work in the areas of CFD, biomedical imaging,
 machine learning, and artificial intelligence. Along with this, novel computing technologies have
 been purchased to support research ranging from in-network computing to the development of
 signal processing pipelines for the upcoming Square Kilometre Array.



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have increased our use of the Small Research Facility model to facilitate shared access to
 equipment across projects and research groups. For example, the ultrafast laser fabrication
 facility in DES, originally set up through Booth’s research programmes, now supports the
 research programmes of two ECRs (Salter and Fells) and is used by students and researchers
 from across UoA-12, from other departments, and from industry.

 3.4       Building infrastructure

 The two departments occupy ~37,000m2 of space across five main sites. The primary site is the
 Keble Road Triangle in the University Science Area, where DES and DoM occupy a set of
 adjacent or shared buildings, creating an excellent environment for networking and interaction.
 Groups are also co-located on the Begbroke Science Park, five miles north of central Oxford,
 where the two departments occupy ~4,300 m2.

 Both departments have rolling minor capital programmes to refurbish buildings and enable
 co-location of groups and activities for synergistic gain. For example, space released by the
 consolidation of workshops has been repurposed to house growth in quantum technologies
 research and enable co-location of nano-photonics labs and expanded dilution fridge capacity.

 The current period has also seen some larger-scale investments:

       •    a £2.3M extension to the OTI building provided ~200m2 additional research space, a new
            compressor room, and an atrium display space to facilitate public engagement with
            research (which houses a Trent 1000 engine donated by Rolls-Royce);
       •    a phased £6.6M programme of refurbishment (including co-funding from the Royce
            Institute and Wolfson Foundation), plus equipment investment, providing 3,000m2 of lab
            and office facilities for an Energy Storage Materials Centre and the Materials Modelling
            Lab;
       •    £300k to create new lab facilities housing a new atom probe tomography system, dilution
            refrigerators, and optical benches.

 We are developing long-term plans for the overhaul of UoA-12 space in the Keble Road
 Triangle. The first step will be construction of a new Information Sciences Building to co-locate
 Computer Science and Information Engineering, which is currently in the early stages of design
 (RIBA Stage 0/1).

 3.5       Use of Infrastructure and facilities to realise impact

 As noted already (section 3.3), many of our core research facilities are used by external
 collaborators and industry partners, either directly (as a service) or through industry-funded
 research.

 Another key asset for supporting impact is the University’s Begbroke Science Park. This
 provides space for University research (primarily from UoA-12) and large-scale research
 infrastructure (such as aluminium direct-chill casting, metal spray forming facilities, and
 production-scale web-coater) alongside small-scale industrial units and incubator space. The
 latter houses a mix of University spin-outs and companies seeking to engage with University
 expertise, ranging from early-stage start-ups to R&D teams from established multi-nationals.
 Several spin-outs from UoA-12 (including Opsydia, Bodle Technologies, and Oxford High-Q) are
 currently based at Begbroke, which enables ongoing collaboration and closer integration of
 research and development.

 The Science Park houses the industry-facing Oxford Materials Characterisation Service
 (OCMS). This offers a range of characterisation techniques, on a commercial basis, through
 service work by its own staff, or “supported self-drive”. The OCMS team can also facilitate
 contracts with academic groups who have relevant expertise or equipment not available in the
 main facility.

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A Joint Venture between the University and Legal & General will enable significant expansion of
 both commercial and research facilities at Begbroke during the next REF period, with a target of
 up to 10,000m2 of new development (including upgraded cleanroom facilities) by 2025.

 3.6       Collaborative use of infrastructure

 UoA researchers (30) have been active users of external major facilities, in many cases making
 significant contributions to their leadership and development (section 4.1). During the period, we
 benefitted from over £10M of research income-in-kind (a 75% increase on the annual average
 from the previous REF).

 The connections between the departments and Diamond Light Source (DLS), the UK’s national
 synchrotron facility, are evidenced by the >175 projects during the period (section 4.1). Solid
 Mechanics and Materials Engineering maintain strong links with both DLS and ISIS, through
 involvement with visiting scientists and world-leading engineering instruments (JEEP, ENGIN-X,
 IMAT).

 DoM researchers contributed to establishment and leadership of CCFE’s Materials Research
 Facility and the wider materials-related aspects of the new national STEP programme to develop
 a small fusion reactor. DoM led, for EPSRC, the bid to BEIS that, in 2018, secured £76M of
 funding for 15 projects for internationally-significant infrastructure in the National Nuclear User
 Facility (NNUF) project.

 We are one of the six managing consortium universities in SuperSTEM (Nellist as Deputy Chair
 of Consortium Advisory Panel), which with £7.2M renewal funding specialises in high-energy
 resolution spectroscopy allowing study of vibrational modes.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.1       Collaborations, networks, and partnerships

 Our researchers collaborate widely, both nationally and internationally. According to Scopus,
 between 2014 and June 2020, the UoA produced just under 6,000 outputs. Of these, 71% had
 external collaborators; 47% were international collaborations. Papers with external collaborators
 have been cited more than 85,000 times.

 Links to External Institutes

 In addition to the Quantum Technologies Hubs (section 3.3), staff from the UoA have contributed
 to several national Institutes that support UK-wide collaboration:
       •    Rosalind Franklin Institute: This new national institute aims to deliver transformative
            changes in life science through interdisciplinary collaboration, and physical science and
            engineering technology development. Roy and Kirkland spearheaded development of
            two of the five science themes in the case for £103m of government investment.
            Kirkland is now Science Director for Correlated Imaging and leads the £7.8m project to
            develop an aberration corrected pulsed electron microscope for visualising atomic-scale
            dynamic events. Stride is PI on a Platform Development Project to build the world’s most
            advanced real-time high-speed video camera.
       •    Diamond Light Source (DLS): The electron Physical Science Imaging Centre (ePSIC) is
            a national facility for aberration corrected electron microscopy, established as a
            collaboration between Johnson Matthey, DoM (Kirkland, Kim), and the DLS to provide
            access to state-of-the-art transmission electron microscopes with expert support from our
            scientists. Hofmann, Tan and Korsunsky co-supervise joint doctoral projects at DLS,
            where Korsunsky also leads a group and champions the upgrade (OCTOPI) of I13
            Imaging beamline. Kawal Sawhney, head of Optics and Metrology at DLS, is Visiting


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            Professor in DES. Goulart and Duncan are designing the control system for the main
            electron ring at Diamond-II.
       •    The Faraday Institution (FI): Also with an HQ on the Harwell Campus, the FI is the UK’s
            independent institute for electrochemical energy storage science and technology,
            supporting research, training, and analysis. It was co-founded (in 2017) by Bruce, who
            led the case for government investment and is now its Chief Scientist. Pasta is project
            lead for the SOLBAT consortium project (an £11M partnership between 6 HEIs and
            industry); and Grant is PI for NEXTRODE (a £12M, six-partner project investigating next-
            generation battery electrode structures); groups from the Chemistry and Process
            Engineering and EOE clusters are also partners in FI programmes; whilst Weatherup is
            PI for a battery characterisation project (with Manchester).
       •    Oxford Suzhou Centre for Advanced Research (OSCAR): opened in 2018, this
            collaborative research facility is Oxford’s first overseas centre devoted to physical
            sciences and engineering. Seven UoA-12 PIs are establishing labs there and building
            research networks throughout China and Asia. Examples of ongoing collaborations
            include: fetal ECG screening with Wuhan Children Hospital; and Raman detection of
            antibiotic-producing strains, with the Soil institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
            OSCAR labs played a critical role in development of a rapid COVID-19 test (see impact
            case study).
       •    Sir Henry Royce Institute: We are a partner in this national collaboration and the lead
            for energy storage materials. Specialist facilities in our Energy Storage Materials Centre
            – along with some atom probe, and electron microscopy instruments – are available and
            promoted to the wider materials community through Royce.
       •    Alan Turing Institute: The University is a founding member of this national institute for
            data science and artificial intelligence. Six of our PIs had formal associations with the
            institute through fellowships and faculty member positions during the REF period.

 4.2       Other Major Collaborative Networks and Initiatives

 Our researchers participate in a myriad of national and international research networks,
 including numerous formal collaborative projects. Illustrative examples include:
       •    Stride, Roy, Coussios, and Cleveland are central players in the Therapeutic Ultrasound
            Network for Drug Delivery and Ablation Network (ThUNDDAR), a national network of
            multi-disciplinary therapeutic ultrasound experts whose aim is to promote clinical use of
            therapeutic ultrasound.
       •    Eight DES academics are charter members of the new European Laboratory for Learning
            and Intelligent Systems (ELLIS), a network of leading academics working closely with
            industry researchers on artificial intelligence.
       •    Reed directs the Next Generation Tatara Co-Creation Centre, Shimane, Japan, a
            manufacturing base for next-generation materials for electric vehicles and aircraft
            engines.
       •    Yang and Ng led the international knowledge exchange platforms SYNERGORS and
            CRES, promoting system thinking and circular economy, such as enhancing the reuse
            and recycling of resources in industrial and waste management systems.
       •    Booth, Fells, Morris, and O’Brien bring expertise in ‘Quantum Computing and
            Technologies’ and ‘Optical Engineering and Communications’ to the European Space
            Agency Lab@Oxford collaboration with groups across other departments.
       •    As inaugural members of the Bristol-Oxford Nuclear Research Centre, we provide
            innovative research to support the safe operation of current and future generation
            nuclear systems. Research has been supported through two large EPSRC multi-
            institutional research grants, and direct support from EDF Energy and AWE. Grovenor
            (to 2019) then Marrow are co-directors. The centre houses 60 full-time researchers,
            demonstrating commitment to training a new generation of nuclear scientists and
            engineers.

                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Members of the UoA also lead or play prominent roles in networks across the University and
 associated bodies. These include the Oxford Optics and Photonics Network, Oxford
 Metamaterials, and Oxford Energy.

 4.3     Relationships with key users and external audiences

 We interact with industry through multiple mechanisms, tailored to different situations; these
 range from long-term ‘institutional’ partnerships (e.g. with Rolls-Royce) to more recent
 relationships developed from individual research connections. Activities include service contracts
 (for immediate practical application of specialist knowledge and facilities) and collaborative
 research programmes (with open or closed outcomes depending on the nature of the contract).
 Where possible, we seek to leverage government and industry funds to amplify the activity and
 the impact (e.g. we are involved in three EPSRC Prosperity Partnerships, large-scale industry-
 led collaborations with public and industry funding). Contract support is provided by the
 University Research Services and Legal Services teams. Examples during the period include:

 4.3.1    Long term partnerships with Industry

 University Technology Centres

  UTC work by Bacic, who holds a         The UTC model is well-suited to interactions with well-
  joint Oxford/Rolls-Royce position,     established industrial partners, where stability of a long-
  led to a Civil Aerospace Best          term relationship is beneficial to both parties, allowing the
  Patent award (2015). One               UTC to develop facilities and expertise, to contribute to
  prominent example of impact            technology road-mapping, and to apply research
  arose from joint research since        outcomes more quickly through established pipelines.
  2014 by Ireland, Gillespie,
  Bacic, and others into heat            As noted in section 1.1.1, we host two of the longest-
  transfer management in new             established Rolls-Royce UTCs. In Aug 2013, the Heat
  turbine designed to operate at         Transfer and Aerodynamics UTC became the first of 31
  high firing temperatures and           UTCs to achieve ISO9001 compliance, providing
  minimise fuel burn and CO2             reliability to Rolls-Royce. UTC facilities have enriched the
  emissions. Their research led to       research environment, underpinning new research into jet
  new technology for controlling         engine cooling and hypersonic flight, and the effects of
  rotor leakage flows and hence          sand deposition on turbines, attracting significant UKRI
  turbine losses: the technology         and industry funding.
  was integrated into the Rolls-
  Royce Trent XWB engine used in          Through the UTC in Solid Mechanics, we engage with a
  the Airbus A350 (317 aircraft           worldwide network of research supporting the aircraft
  across 31 operators).                   propulsion industry. During the REF period, investment in
                                          state-of-the-art facilities for impact and high strain-rate
 testing of materials and components has enabled us to tackle new technical challenges,
 including a paradigm shift in the use of new materials for large aviation gas turbine engines.

 In January 2020, we launched the Hitachi Metals-Oxford UTC of Metallurgy, cementing a long-
 term collaboration between DoM and Hitachi Metals. The initial focus will exploit expertise on
 advanced superalloy development for aerospace applications and amorphous ferrous ribbon
 processing as crucial technology for improved electric motors for the automotive industry.

 Centre of Excellence for Compression Ignition Engine Combustion Research

 From 2014–19, DES hosted the Oxford/Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) Centre of Excellence for
 Compression Ignition Engine Combustion Research. This supported work with a strong focus on
 improving efficiency and emissions in next-generation engines. Our state-of-the-art engine test
 facility, developed in partnership with JLR, supported JLR diesel research.



                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The collaboration will be continued with a five-year EPSRC Prosperity Partnership between
 DES, JLR, University of Bath, and Siemens Digital Industries. The expanded centre will develop
 hybrid propulsion systems and examine low-carbon fuels in highly efficient thermal propulsion
 systems and electric motors, while minimising demand on the electricity grid and preparing for
 future fuels.

 4.3.2   Strategic partnerships in key areas

 Offshore renewables

 Building on a decade of collaboration – including the highly-successful Pile Soil Analysis (PISA)
 project, which involved 11 of Europe’s main offshore windfarm developers responsible for 75%
 of offshore wind capacity – we established a five-year research framework with Ørsted.
 Improved geotechnical designs are already reducing the costs of offshore wind (see impact case
 study), with findings being incorporated into international standards for all future developments.
 Byrne and Willden co-direct EPSRC’s £9M Supergen Offshore Renewable Energy Hub, which
 has resulted in 22 funded research projects and provided opportunities for 157 ECRs, who are
 now a part of the network.

 Computational research infrastructure

 The OeRC has undertaken extensive work on computational research infrastructure, with
 industrial collaborators Intel, ARM, and Atos. It has hosted an NVIDIA CUDA Centre of
 Excellence and formed an Enterprise Innovation Centre with Lenovo. Activity has also covered
 biomedical work with Roche and Springer Nature, and energy and climate work with the National
 Trust and Marks and Spencer.

 Nanomaterials

 The EPSRC IAA-funded project Special nanomaterials for ultra-performance heat exchangers in
 motor and aerospace industries involved development of heat exchangers that led on to work on
 thermal management module manufacture with Williams Advanced Engineering. This link
 developed into a Royal Society Industry Fellowship for Grobert.

 4.3.3   Other partnership enablers

 Centre for Advanced Superconductivity

 Established in 2015 using Local Growth Funding, the centre enables collaboration with an
 important regional cluster of industries to whom superconducting materials are vital. This
 includes Siemens Magnet Technology, Oxford Instruments, Element6, and a growing number of
 SMEs (e.g. Tokamak Energy and MRsolutions).

 Oxford Robotics Institute (ORI) Membership

 The ORI has an extensive network of industry collaborators, supporting symbiotic interactions
 and a user-led research agenda in large-scale mobile autonomy. The membership scheme
 enables deep immersion within the ORI portfolio. Companies can embed employees within the
 institute with access to data, software, hardware, and facilities, as well as seminars, trials, and
 workshops. The scheme accelerates and catalyses knowledge transfer from the ORI to its
 industrial members.

 ORI employs a diverse set of over 20 robots: rovers, cars, drones, handheld sensor platforms
 and quadrupeds. With experience in a wide range of robotic systems as well as excellent
 fundamentals in robotics, ORI’s team of in-house professional engineers are instrumental in
 making the membership programme a success.


                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Consultancy

 As explained in section 2.4, we encourage staff to undertake up to 30 days of consultancy per
 year, as this is an effective way both to deliver expertise to industry and to identify user needs.
 Support is available through OUI, which identifies opportunities, negotiates terms, manages
 consultancies, and provides professional indemnity cover. This is a highly effective model that
 has delivered robust growth in activity. Across the REF period, our researchers held an annual
 average of 116 outside appointment activities, such as consultancy, voluntary work, or company
 directorships.

 4.4   Wider evidence of impact

 Commercialisation

 During the period, the two departments generated 265 priority patent filings; and OUI completed
 134 licensing agreements arising from UoA projects. The establishment of Oxford Sciences
 Innovation plc (OSI) has driven an increase in spin-out activity: 34 companies were spun-out
 from DES and DoM in the REF period, in areas ranging from healthcare products to AI business
 solutions.

    Notable spin-out examples not covered by Impact Case Studies include:
       •   6D.ai exploits research from the Active Vision Lab (DES) to develop unique
           imaging software, designed to enhance augmented reality (AR) applications and
           help them interact with the world in a natural and realistic way. In 2020, 6D.ai was
           acquired by Niantic Labs.
       •   OxMet Technologies builds on decades of research and experience with alloys and
           alloy processes at Oxford. Founded in 2017, it developed the Alloy-by-Design
           (ABD®) rapid alloy design and optimisation software which is used to develop,
           license, and manufacture proprietary alloys, alloy powders, and components for the
           aerospace, automotive, industrial, and biomedical markets.
       •   Mindfoundry has developed a collaborative, accessible AI platform, allowing
           application of machine learning to solve real-world problems encountered by
           business, and employs over 30 people. The platform enabled a measurement
           instrument manufacturer to predict and categorize equipment failures, saving
           months of work. Its services are extensively used in the finance industry, deployed
           to optimise existing algorithmic solutions and generate new ones, helping drive
           down losses across several use cases.


 Other illustrative examples of impact and technology transfer

 Researchers in Control Engineering have led a collaboration with Stanford, Princeton, and ETH
 Zurich to develop open-source software for large-scale optimisation (www.osqp.org), which has
 been downloaded 2.5M times and is used by organisations including Google, Blackrock, and
 Lyft. Papachristodoulou and Steel have created open-source hardware for biological science
 research (www.chi.bio), which is being used in industry and academia (Microsoft, Vow Foods,
 Caltech). In materials modelling, Yates has projects supporting industrial take-up in screening
 new pharmaceutical compounds, (bio)minerals and glasses, with users including AstraZeneca
 and Johnson Matthey.

 The EPSRC IAA-funded project Crowdsourced Map Building for Disaster Response (led by
 Reece) developed rapid delivery of information to disaster responders using satellite imaging
 combined with machine learning and crowdsourced technologies. This has been used by
 numerous agencies for improved recovery times following major hurricanes.



                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Further prominent examples of policy and industrial impact:

   Building upon her expertise in nanomaterials, Grobert has influenced policy serving as a
   Chief Scientific Advisor to the European Commission. This has led to agenda-setting reports
   on microplastics that have directly impacted policy making in various international contexts:
   including influencing the Commission’s agenda and policies concerning microplastics
   pollution and biodegradability of plastics in the open environment, as well as enabling
   international collaborations between the G7 countries on the prevention of microplastics
   pollution.

   Leach and Stone’s vehicle emission research and manufacturer collaboration led to the
   adoption of a metric (the PN index) that links fuel composition and particulate emissions
   from gasoline direct injection (GDI) engines (today’s dominant engine technology). The PN
   index and its associated study were provided to the European Commission to inform the
   fuel composition standards in the current Euro 6 legislation. This work has directly improved
   the practice of their industrial partners, particularly JLR. Bosch and BMW have cited the
   Oxford PN index in their publications. Furthermore, improvements in practice arising from
   this work have positive implications for public health through reductions in particulate
   emissions.

 Research in the UoA has also led to significant public policy impacts, several of which are
 described in our impact case studies (see: Informing policy by raising awareness of the societal
 and economic effects of automation; Oxbotica – Creating Universal Autonomy for Vehicles; and
 The FAIR Principles and FAIRsharing: Transforming Data Policies, Supporting Reproducibility
 and Reusability World-Wide).

 4.5       Wider community engagement

 Public Engagement with Research (PER)

 Both departments take an active role in high-quality, innovative public engagement activities to
 enrich research and society via radio interviews, television/YouTube appearance, podcasts, and
 workshops. Notable PER examples include:
       •    Page was a part of the Digital Delius project, which won a VC Public Engagement with
            Research award. Working with the British Library, this collaborative team of Oxford
            academics from DES and Music created a permanent digital exhibition, supported by
            workshops for young people in Oxfordshire to enable a wider understanding and
            appreciation of musical sources.
       •    OeRC invests significant effort in public engagement, such as performances at the
            Barbican of music written by AI as a tribute to Ada Lovelace. As part of the PRiSM
            collaboration, De Roure provided the dataset for the AI used to write the musical score.
       •    Making Materials Matter is an ongoing annual collaborative project which began in 2016.
            Over 100 Year 8 students have engaged, carrying out student-led research investigations
            culminating in a Student Conference. The scheme enriches the curriculum and increases
            awareness of materials science. Originally a joint Oxford-Cambridge initiative, partners
            now include Imperial College and Sheffield University.
       •    ORI researchers ran Betty the Robot at Blenheim Palace and gave many public lectures
            (e.g. Royal Society Milner Lecture and the UCL Milldner Lecture). ORI has also been
            involved in major public demonstrations to improve public perceptions of autonomous
            vehicles, including the Lutz, Autodrive, and DRIVEN projects.
       •    UoA members participated in more than ten podcasts or animations designed for the
            public via Oxford Sparks, the University’s online science engagement portal. These
            range from Lefferts’ work on chemiresistive sensors being explored to match that of
            sniffer dogs, to Posner and Ashton discussing what Hollywood gets wrong or right in
            science fiction.

                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Interdisciplinary research

 Our many notable advances in interdisciplinary research have been mentioned throughout this
 environment statement and a visual representation of this breadth can be seen in Fig. 3.




        Figure 3: Scholarly outputs by topic, 2014-20, illustrating the interdisciplinary reach
                           of the UoA’s research (data source: Scopus).


 For brevity, we highlight again just the two major areas of Biomedical and Information
 engineering.

 The IBME’s location on a medical campus has facilitated collaboration between engineering
 researchers and clinicians from a broad range of disciplines, including radiology, oncology,
 cardiovascular medicine, obstetrics, and gerontology. During the REF period, 18 clinical trials of
 novel technologies developed within the IBME have been conducted, reported in major journals
 including Nature, Lancet Oncology, and JAMA Cardiology. The IBME’s contributions to medical
 technology innovation and clinical translation for societal benefit were recognized by the award
 of the 2015 Queen’s Anniversary Prize.

 Research in Information Engineering is inherently interdisciplinary, working within the University
 with Materials, Anthropology, and Zoology. More widely, we have collaborated with MIT and
 Universidad Carlos III de Madrid on the Atlas of Inequality Project, and in the Data for Refugees

                                                                                              Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Challenge with higher education institutes worldwide. A unique collaboration with the Man Group
 has continued in this REF period through OMI, where pioneering research into quantitative
 finance using machine learning techniques and data analytics is conducted. This in turn has led
 to the spin-out Mindfoundry (section 4.4). Similarly, experts in computer vision worked with the
 Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine to create a wearable technology to assist those with
 near blindness to regain freedom. This was subsequently spun out into the company OxSight
 (see impact case study).

 Responsiveness to national/international priorities

 The UoA’s strategies for expansion in particular areas have enhanced its ability to respond to
 national and international priorities. Evidence for this in areas including turbomachinery and
 robotics has already been detailed in section 4.3. Further clear examples of this arose on
 separate fronts in Biomedical Engineering during the COVID-19 pandemic:
    •   Cui and Huang led development of rapid COVID-19 tests that are being widely deployed
        (see impact case study).
    •   The OxVent initiative was launched, with significant input by DES researchers and pump-
        priming funds from the department, in response to the UK Government’s ventilator
        challenge in March 2020. Within ten weeks, OxVent created a simple, scalable design,
        based on off-the-shelf components with one moving part. A single manufacturing line can
        output 5,000 units/week at around £1,000/unit, making it suitable not only for rapid
        response during a pandemic, but also for increasing routine critical care capacity and
        access to emergency surgery in lower-middle income countries.
    •   The SEND (System for Electronic Notification & Documentation) in-hospital vital-sign
        monitoring system helped to support the management of COVID-19 patients in Intensive
        Care Units (ICU). This system, developed by Tarassenko’s group and clinical
        collaborators, was deployed throughout the Oxford hospitals and contributed to a
        reduced ICU mortality rate of 15% in these hospitals, compared to the national average
        rate of 40% ICU mortality rate in the first wave of the pandemic in 2020.

 At national level, the UoA has engaged with societal and business challenges including through
 several Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund projects. We highlight three notable examples:
    •   Clean growth: The UoA participates in two regional ambitious projects: Local Energy
        Oxfordshire (LEO), trialling intelligent local grids to balance power generation and
        demand; and Energy Superhub Oxford (ESO), building a rapid charging network for big
        vehicle fleets.
    •   Future of mobility: Further to the close work with the Faraday Institution and its battery
        challenges (section 4.1), we are also part of consortia which focus on exploring how
        robots can make a safer world (RAIN: advanced robotics in nuclear operations, and
        ORCA: AI for offshore energy management). We are also at the forefront of self-driven
        vehicles (see impact case study).
    •   AI and data: The JADE 2 consortium and facility is a collaboration with Maths and
        Biochemistry. Bringing together 19 universities, JADE is a unique national resource,
        providing state-of-the-art GPU compute for research in areas including artificial
        intelligence, machine learning and molecular dynamics.

 Our ongoing strategic support and development plans for these and other research areas (as
 detailed in section 1) mean that we will be in a strong position to respond to future emerging
 priorities.




                                                                                            Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.6       Indicators of recognition, external influence and esteem

 Below, we provide highlights of the wide range of activities we have undertaken, and accolades
 we have received, which demonstrate and recognise our researchers’ wider influence beyond
 the University, their contributions to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline, and leadership
 roles.

 Journal Editorships

 48% of our academic staff have at least one editorial role in scientific journals (78 editorships in
 total). To highlight this, we list here those who hold (or have held since 2014) senior Editor-in-
 Chief or equivalent positions:

       •    Booth: Optics Communications.
       •    Chen: IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics; Wiley Computer
            Graphics Forum.
       •    Hankins: Journal of Water Process Engineering.
       •    Hills: International Journal of Solids and Structures.
       •    Jerusalem: Brain Multiphysics.
       •    Kirkland: Ultramicroscopy.
       •    Korsunsky: Materials & Design.
       •    Nellist: Journal of Microscopy.
       •    Sansone: Springer-Nature Scientific Data.
       •    Smith: Materials for Quantum Technology.
       •    Stone: Proc IMechE Part A, Journal of Power and Energy.
       •    Todd: Journal of the European Ceramic Society; Journal of Wuhan University of
            Technology: Materials Science.
       •    Wallom: SoftwareX.
       •    Wilson: Journal of Microscopy.

 Services to Funding Bodies

 Academic members of DES and DoM contribute regularly as reviewers for funding bodies and
 over 40% have served on research council or other funding committees, including EPSRC, the
 Royal Society, and several others. Of particular note are the following:

       •    Briggs: Principal Advisor for the Power of Information initiative; directs services provided
            by the University of Oxford for Templeton World Charity Foundation.
       •    Denison: Royal Society Working Group in Neurotechnology 2018-19; NIH (U.S.)
            Director’s working group, BRAIN Initiative 2.0, 2018-19.
       •    Grant: 2011-17 EPSRC Strategic Advisory Network; 2010-15 EPSRC Manufacturing the
            Future Strategic Advisory Team.
       •    Grobert: served on ten research council committees or similar bodies.
       •    Grovenor: leads the NNUF Management Group.
       •    Houlsby: member, RAEng Research Fellowship selection committees.

 Prizes and Awards

 UoA members have collectively been awarded over 80 academic prizes since 2014. Selected
 highlights include:

       •    Armstrong: IoM3, Grunfeld Award & Medal (2016)
       •    Bacic: Royal Academy of Engineering, Silver Medal (2020)
       •    Booth: International Commission for Optics Prize (2014).



                                                                                                 Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Bruce: Royal Society of Chemistry, Liversidge Award (2016); Royal Society, Hughes
        Medal (2017).
    •   Byrne, MacAdam, and others: British Geotechnical Association, Fleming Award (2017).
    •   Kirkland: Harald Rose Distinguished Lecture Award (2015); European Microscopy
        Society, Quadrennial Prize (2016), Royal Microscopical Society, Alan Agar Medal (2017).
    •   McCulloch: Gusi Peace Prize (2018).
    •   Nellist: European Microscopy Society, Outstanding Paper Award in Materials Science
    •   Newman: Royal Academy of Engineering, Silver Medal; Inst Measurement and Control,
        Sir Harold Hartley Medal.
    •   Siviour: Society of Experimental Mechanics, JSA Young Investigator Award.
    •   Stride: Institute of Engineering and Technology, AF Harvey Prize (2014).
    •   Todd: European Ceramic Society, Stuijts Award (2019).
    •   Zisserman: Royal Society, Milner Award (2017).

 Learned Societies

 The following have been elected to fellowships of national learned societies during this REF
 period:
     • Nellist, Noble: Fellow of the Royal Society.
     • Nellist: Honorary Fellow, Royal Microscopical Society
     • Coussios, Cocks, Ireland, Reed, Roberts, Stride, Torr, Trefethen: Fellow of the Royal
         Academy of Engineering.
     • Bruce, Grobert: Members of Academia Europaea

 Honorary and Visiting Professorships

    •   Booth: Visiting Professor, SAOT, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.
    •   De Roure: Honorary Visiting Professor, Royal Northern College of Music.
    •   Grobert: Visiting Professor, Toyo University, Kawagoe, Japan
    •   Kirkland: Honorary Professor, Nelson Mandela University; Distinguished Honorary
        Visiting Professor, Shanghai Technical University.
    •   Roy: Honorary Professor, Hong Kong Polytechnic University
    •   Wilson: 2013-2020 Thousand Talents Professor, Harbin Institute of Technology.

 Significant training roles

    •   Morris: Academic Director for CPD programmes in Electronics, Engineering, and
        Telecommunications at Oxford’s Department for Continuing Education.
    •   Smith: Associate Director (Skills and Training), Networked Quantum Information
        Technologies Hub (NQIT) (2014-19).

 Prominent Lectures

 Our academics have collectively given around 1,000 invited lectures at conferences and other
 events. Particularly prominent highlights include:

    •   Booth: Ernst Abbe Lecture, International Commission for Optics Congress, 2017.
    •   Houlsby: 54th “Rankine Lecture” (given 25 times), Institute of Advanced Studies
        Distinguished Visiting Fellow Lecture, Osterberg Lecture, Jack W. Hilf Memorial Lecture,
        “Cross-Canada Lecture Tour” (10x lectures).
    •   Zisserman: KCIS Distinguished Lecture; Royal Society Milner lecture; British Machine
        Vision Conference (BMVC) keynote 2013.




                                                                                         Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Other Notable Service

    •   Bruce: Physical Secretary, Royal Society, from November 2018.
    •   De Roure: Gave oral evidence to three Select Committee Inquiries; Member of
        Government Office for Science Blackett Review of Internet of Things (2014); Expert on
        EC Foresight on Key Long-term Transformations in Research, Innovation and Higher
        Education (2014-15); Member of the Executive of the UK Computing Research
        Committee.
    •   Denison: Graham Clarke Orator, Melbourne Australia (2019) (Oration, School Outreach,
        and Neurotech conference).
    •   Grant: Board member, Oxfordshire Local Enterprise Partnership (OXLEP, 2018);
        Appointed by Minister for Universities, Science and Cities to the Advanced Materials
        Leadership Council (2014-16); Non-executive director, Oxford University Innovation
        (2015-).
    •   Grobert: Group of Chief Scientific Advisors to the European Commission (member since
        May 2018; chair from November 2020); Chair, Young Academy of Europe (2015-16).
    •   Houlsby: Member, search committee for 2019 Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering.
        Will be Vice-chair, then Chair in the coming biennial rounds.
    •   Marrow: Independent advisor to the UK nuclear regulator (ONR).
    •   Nellist: President, Royal Microscopical Society (2013-16).
    •   Noble: Member, Government Blackett Review Panel (2016-17); Chair, Royal Society
        Policy Working Group: Privacy Enhancing Technologies (2017-19); Member, Royal
        Academy of Engineering (RAEng): Capturing Value Steering Group (2017-19); Member,
        RAEng External Affairs Committee (2013-15).
    •   Roy: Acoustical Society of America: various positions, including Vice President (2016-
        17).
    •   Wilson: Master, Worshipful Company of Scientific Instrument Makers (2014-15).




                                                                                       Page 33
