Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 27 – English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context
The English Language and Literature Unit of Assessment consists of 19 staff members,
including 7 Professors and 3 former early career researchers (16.54FTE). Informed by feedback
from REF 2014, the University’s decision to establish a Unit of Assessment in Music, Drama,
Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies (UoA33) has reduced the size of UoA27 from
22.61 FTE in 2014 but has also reshaped its disciplinary and interdisciplinary composition around
core interests. Staff from English Literature, English Language and Linguistics, History, Creative
Writing and Journalism draw on disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches which centre firmly on
textual forms and practices, literary histories and cultural materialities. Since 2014, the Unit has
attained a greater degree of research focus by concentrating on literary-historical forms of criticism,
diaspora and postcolonial studies, and life and women’s writing, alongside creative and theoretical
work focussed on race, gender and culture. This closer alignment of research interests has been
productive in strengthening the Unit’s research environment, which is characterised by positive
consolidation of the PhD programme and notable successes in research funding. The Unit
currently has 30 enrolled PhD students and has achieved 20 doctoral completions (plus 2 by
publication and 1 wholly overseas) and 6 Masters by Research in the current cycle. It has
benefited from the University’s membership of the TECHNE AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership
(DTP), with 7 studentship awards in the period and a further 2 awarded in April 2020 for 2020/21.
PhD completions compare favourably to REF 2014, as shown below:

                                  Completions                      Per FTE
 2014                             14                               0.62
 2021                             20                               1.2

Researchers have been funded from a variety of sources to conduct their research, including a
Leverhulme Research Fellowship to support research on remembrance and cultural monuments in
post-Reformation England (Phillippy), with income from the same scheme supporting another
project, in 2014, on British colonial writing from the seventeenth to the nineteenth century (Carey).
Reflecting the maturity of core research, and as part of its strategy for career development and
disciplinary sustainability, the Unit has also hosted three Leverhulme Early Career Fellows during
the current period, awarded to scholars working in modern literature, culture and writing (Boyd
Maunsell, Alfano, Angel). Total mainstream research income is £347,275 which represents a 12.7
per cent increase on 2014 when calculated by FTE submitted. This was also supported by
£151,505 academic, administration and central services research income of which over 99%
relates to AHRC doctoral training partnership funding (TECHNE).

                                  Total research income            Research income per FTE

 2014                             424,813                          18,788
 2021   mainstream                347,275                          20,996
 2021   including ‘services’      498,781                          30,156

During the current assessment period staff have published: 16 monographs, 6 books of poetry, 7
novels, over 20 articles in refereed journals, more than 40 book chapters, several edited collections
and journal issues, as well as other publications including collections of essays and stories,
editions, individual poems and short stories, and creative non-fiction. Our commitment to research
excellence is reflected in publication venues including leading university and trade presses
(Cambridge, Edinburgh, Minnesota and Manchester University presses; Bloomsbury, Routledge
and Continuum) and peer-reviewed academic journals including Textual Practice, New Literary


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
History, Criticism, Genre, Frontiers: A Journal of Women’s Studies, Journal for Eighteenth-Century
Studies, Biography, Philosophy Today, Postmodern Culture, Paragraph and Poetry.

The social and cultural influence of research produced by the Unit is realised through partnership
with local, national and international organisations including the United Nations, the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office, History and Policy and Beyond Borders Scotland (Jensen), the
International College of Philosophy in Paris (Wortham), and English PEN and International PEN
(Fowler, Upstone). Staff have also formed collaborative links with the Literary London Society
(Dines), and the Trauma and Stabilisation Recovery Network (Jensen). Staff feature prominently
in festival programmes, on local and national media, and at international research events, and are
regularly involved in collaborations with other universities nationally and internationally.

1.2 Unit Structure
Staff in UoA27 are based in the School of Arts, Culture and Communication (ArCC), created in
2017 to bring together a range of humanities subjects including English literature and language,
linguistics, history, philosophy, media, journalism and publishing, music, drama and dance. In 2018
ArCC became part of Kingston School of Art (KSA), joining well-established academic units in art
and architecture, design, critical studies and creative industries. This initiative brought together
teaching, research and postgraduate study across the entire spectrum of the arts and humanities,
in order to promote interdisciplinary collaboration and foster mutually supportive environments for
scholarship, learning, critical inquiry and creative practice. As a result, PGRs within the Unit benefit
from closer links with those researching in philosophy, art and design, media and performing arts
(the other main beneficiaries of AHRC-funded DTP studentships at Kingston, which in the current
REF period have numbered over 70 across all disciplines). KSA is therefore able to offer a rich
research environment for doctoral study, especially where literary history and criticism intersect
with cultural and critical studies, art and design history, aesthetics, philosophy and forms of
creative practice. Staff have also actively participated in training and development events for
research students across the DTP, which includes 9 HEIs in London and the South East. Equally,
as the University’s arts and humanities subjects have drawn closer together during the current REF
cycle, members of the Unit have collaborated with other staff in cognate disciplines at Kingston,
though both internal and external initiatives and events. For example, the 2015 graduate
conference (led by Botting with doctoral students) ‘Critical Spaces: Disorienting the Topological’
considered interdisciplinary approaches to spatiality resulting in ‘Spaces of Crisis and Critique:
heterotopias Beyond Foucault’ (Bloomsbury) edited by PhD students Faramelli, Hancock and
White. Wortham’s collaborations with Kingston’s Centre for Modern European Philosophy
(CRMEP) have resulted in two conferences (the first as part of an open summer school) with
follow-on publications: What Remains: Of Derrida’s Glas’, New York University, 2014/Paragraph
Special Issue (with Catherine Malabou) and ‘Thinking Universalities’, DePaul University,
2015/Philosophy Today Special Issue (with Etienne Balibar).

The Unit’s two research groups, Writing Cultures, and Race/Gender Matters, provide a lively,
shared environment for research exchange between staff and students, through public events,
seminars and informal meetings; peer support for staff in the development of research outputs;
funding applications and events planning, especially for ECRs; and collaboration across the
university (such as with other units 30, 32, 33) and with external partners, leading to greater public
engagement and impact.

i. Writing Cultures (led by Jensen and Upstone)

Writing Cultures fosters creative, critical and interdisciplinary engagements with multiple forms of
writing across diverse cultural contexts. Its activity grows out of the previously established Kingston
Writing School, with a key aim continuing to be increased public engagement through free
workshops, performances, and community book clubs. A regular programme of events puts
Kingston staff and students in dialogue with writers and academics from across the UK and
internationally. Writing Cultures is home not only to practice-based research and publication in
creative writing, but also creative non-fiction and publicly-minded scholarship in literary studies.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Within Writing Cultures, Fowler is a poet whose approach to highly engaged, collaborative and
curated forms of writing aims at a variety of artistic, social and cultural impacts. Kureishi (CBE) is
an internationally acclaimed playwright, screenwriter, filmmaker and novelist, whose works explore
the complexities of multicultural experience in English society. Bailey has published eighteen
works of fiction and non-fiction, having twice been shortlisted for the Booker Prize. Miller’s novels
and short stories explore themes in contemporary American and British cultures, with an emphasis
on constructions of racial identity. Baron has published six novels including, recently, a well-
received novel for children; his research has engaged, among other topics, civil rights violations
suffered by Turkish writers. Shortlisted for the Virginia prize for fiction in 2018, Jensen works at the
intersection of life writing, trauma and human rights. Her expressive writing project has developed
train-the-trainer workshops in post-conflict areas in Syria, Lebanon and Iraq; her approach aims to
alleviate trauma through the use of life writing and narrative-based therapies. A critic of diaspora
studies, Upstone also undertakes research on questions regarding the public function of writing as
a force for social, cultural and political change. She has led numerous local and metropolitan
writing events at the Museum of Futures, the Rose Theatre and for English PEN. Lambrou
complements her research in literary and non-literary stylistics and media discourses in fictional
and factual texts with a focus on personal and trauma narratives. Scott’s research in the
pragmatics of referring expressions considers how they may be used both to communicate
meaning and to create stylistic effects across media forms, aligning with the emphasis within
Writing Cultures on materiality and creativity. Baverstock’s work promotes and records the
benefits of shared reading among diverse communities; her Big Read project has pioneered the
expansion of literary engagement in various institutions while her Reading Force initiative unites
military families by means of shared reading and writing about literature.

ii. Race/Gender Matters (led by Dines)

Evolving from a more broadly-based interdisciplinary grouping (Cultural Histories at Kingston),
Race/Gender Matters (R/GM) was formed in 2016 to bring into sharper focus the Unit’s research
on theoretical, critical and creative engagements with the materiality of race, gender, identity and
language. It has hosted several public events featuring interdisciplinary talks and performances by
a variety of practitioners and academics. R/GM emerged from a shared recognition that a
substantial body of research in the Unit coalesces around issues of materialism, from social and
historical understandings to the contemporary reintroduction of matter into critical theory. R/GM is
positioned to traverse specialisms and disciplines; members regularly engage with staff and
students from other departments in ArCC, from philosophy to media and music. PGR students
constitute a lively component of the group and take an important role in its activities. Monthly
research seminars provide a forum for researchers and doctoral students to present work in
progress, and to forge new collaborations across disciplines and departments. Due to a long
history of involvement by staff within the Unit, the Literary London Society (LLS) is a key external
partner of R/GM. Former staff member Carey, whose work focusses on slavery and colonial
writing, was President of the Society at the beginning of the current REF period, while Dines was
Vice-President (2014-17) and President (2017-20), organising annual conferences in 2014 (‘Ages
of London’) and in 2018 (‘Conflict and Resolution’), and editing the Literary London Journal issue
16.1 (2020). Phillippy and Botting have both given the LLS Annual Lecture (2016, 2017) and other
staff have undertaken LLS committee service and organised reading groups. Members are
currently developing a Leverhulme Project Grant toward enhancing the collaboration through a
project on the digital mapping of literary Londons.



Of the staff returned to REF 2021 within R/GM, Palmer’s research crosses philosophy, speculative
writing and critical theory, with interests including the avant-garde, queer performance, critical
theory, corporeality, synaesthesia, intersectional feminism and new materialism. Botting is an
expert on Gothic literature from the eighteenth century to the present, especially in relation to
monstrosity, alterity, metaphor and materiality. Birchwood’s research in early modern British
representations and receptions of Islam and the Muslim ‘other’ has led to work examining the
interplay of orientalism and European femininity in the writings of Aphra Behn. Dines researches

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
post-World War II suburban cultures in America and Britain, examining conjunctions of physical
and narrative spaces that destabilise or queer suburban values. Scarsi’s main area of interest is
Anglo-Italian relations in the Renaissance, examined through theories of the gendered body in
English translations of Ariosto and Boiardo; recent archival work has uncovered an unknown
manuscript poem by Bernardo Tasso, which she is preparing for publication in collaboration with
the Centro Studii Tassini in Bergamo. Johnson’s research on the long eighteenth-century focuses
on leisure, gender, consumer and medical history through the study of England’s emergent spas
and seaside resorts. Clarke (Emeritus Professor) focuses on eighteenth century literature with a
specific interest in women’s writing and gender; recent publications include a monograph on Oliver
Goldsmith and Grub Street, and a memoir. Agnew’s research takes a postcolonial view of Indian
and Irish narratives, focusing on the material interplay of gender and environment in travel
narratives by nineteenth-century British women in colonial India and Ireland. Upstone publishes on
contemporary fiction, race and identity. Wortham researches twentieth and twenty-first century
textual histories informing the interplay between philosophy, literature, and political and
psychoanalytic thought. During the period, he has produced monographs on contemporary
philosophical, political and ethical conceptions of suffering, hope and resistance. Cathcart is a
scholar, journalist and co-founder of the Hacked Off campaign which informed the Leveson Inquiry.
His research explores corruption and misrepresentation, from the anti-Semitism in reporting of the
Battle of Waterloo to the racial biases undergirding print reporting on Islam as well as the Steven
Lawrence case.

1.3 Research Strategy

The Unit’s research and impact strategy builds on plans outlined in the REF 2014 submission to:
strengthen research platforms; continue investment in staffing and partnerships; develop a vibrant
and sustainable PGR community; build pathways to impact through collaborative and
interdisciplinary research; increase opportunities for fundable research.

The key strategic priorities for the Unit going forward are therefore to: 1) consolidate the two
research platforms to enhance the research environment; 2) develop programmes of research that
may lead to major research projects and larger funding bids; 3) foster collaborative research within
external networks and partners with a view to increasing impact and knowledge exchange; 4)
further enhance the postgraduate research experience and PGR outcomes; 5) foster opportunity
for staff in line with the academic careers framework; 6) encourage an open and inclusive
approach to research.

Unit strategy is informed by the University’s Strategic Plan (KU22) which aims to foster knowledge
and learning that benefits society; aligning research, knowledge exchange, professional practice
and teaching within a framework of impact. Faculty research is led by the Associate Dean for
Research, Business & Innovation, who has oversight of the 4 Units of Assessment in KSA (27, 30,
32, 33). The Faculty embarked on a review of its research environment in 2020-21, underway at
time of submission, involving extensive engagement with external stakeholders as well as faculty
researchers, particularly in order to support the creation of pathways to impact, strengthening
partnerships and enhancing the training and mentoring of staff in the generation and capture of
impact, including skills training in the use of impact tracking software and training and development
in open research.


Relocation of the newly created School (ArCC) to another Faculty (KSA), with its strengths in a
range of creative practices and critical methods, has boosted collaborative activity with academics
who offer new research perspectives and approaches that invigorate work in the Unit. The Unit
provides a platform for a regular series of events including lectures, workshops and work-in-
progress seminars that offer opportunities for colleagues to share their research and engage with
that of other staff and PGR students. The consolidation under one roof of all postgraduate research
in the arts and humanities, including all studentships funded by the AHRC, significantly enhances
the research environment. A clear and distinct focus on the Writing Cultures and Race/Gender
Matters groupings aids mentoring, guides academic career development and supports

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
achievement in research. This has been supported during the period by the University’s
introduction of a new academic careers framework, and internal funding for staff development and
targeted teaching relief for research. Writing Cultures’ concern with the transformative potential of
writing and creative practice in terms of external engagement and impact has led its researchers to
work with community partners, NGOs, businesses and industry. R/GMs’ interrogation of racial,
gendered, and material identities is deeply involved with the cultural politics of ‘place’, a premise
that it continues to explore through collaboration with the Literary London Society, which reach a
wide audience through its web-based and live events, lectures and reading group. R/GM also
provides a platform for cross-Unit collaboration, for instance with colleagues submitted in UoA33
(Perazzo Domm, Mader McGuinness). The vitality of the Unit is reflected in the growth of the
Unit’s PhD programme. Key aims are to continue the trend of increased levels of external funding
for doctoral students; and to involve all staff in PhD supervision in order to promote sustainability
across the spectrum of research interests in the Unit. In training PhD students, the Unit will
prioritise opportunities to explore career options beyond the academy through placements that
allow them to contribute to programme development, research and communications at arts and
cultural institutions. Internships for PGRs encourage a generation of ‘versatile humanists’ with a
variety of career options. Kingston’s membership of the TECHNE DTP supports this, including
Collaborative Doctoral Awards which offer staff new opportunities to work with external
organisations to provide jointly supervised PhD provision. In the most recent round of applications,
Upstone and Agnew developed a CDA with the Natural History Museum; likewise, Jensen
worked with the Trauma Stabilisation and Recovery Network to develop a CDA studentship. In this
context, Unit staff have also designed and led TECHNE training and exchange days, which offer
opportunities to discuss potential research collaborations with external partners.

The Unit’s approach to interdisciplinarity is embedded in its two main groupings, which bring
together literary studies, including literary history and theory, with creative practice while also
engaging with approaches found in linguistics, philosophy and the social sciences. Race and
gender theory in their contemporary interdisciplinary forms strongly inform research in the Unit, and
research insights frequently occur on condition of working across disciplinary traditions and
perspectives.

The Unit encourages an Open Access research environment, aligned with the University’s ‘Green’
Open Access policy. Additional funding is also made available for Gold Open Access article
processing charges. Research support staff and Library, and school research directors are active
in encouraging and training staff in Open Access policy. Facilitating open research is part of the
Unit’s strategy of public engagement, such as the use of Backdoor Broadcasting to create publicly
accessible, archived podcasts of research events (including Kingston Shakespeare Seminars and
R/GM events).

1.4 Impact strategy

The Unit made a strong submission in research impact in the previous REF, with 100% 4* rating in
this category. It has since built upon the strategy identified in the 2014 impact statement of
focussing on targeted areas to deliver specific benefits of research: impacts on the creative
economy benefitting external partners and communities; community enhancement and public
engagement; policy engagement. Impact and public engagement, which brings research and
knowledge exchange together in support of REF and KEF, is supported by the University’s impact
and business development teams.

   •   Creative economy and its benefits to external partners and communities

Through partnership with creative and cultural institutions, publishers and community groups,
researchers in the unit employ a variety of public and community engagement strategies leading to
the growth and diversification of audiences as well as increased participation in literary events and
reading schemes. As well as delivering benefits through quality engagement with external
organisations and community groups, Baverstock’s research and practice on projects such as the
Big Read and Reading Force deliver publisher benefits, providing support and insight against the

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
backdrop of changing landscapes in publishing and reading practices. In terms of partnership-
working, Jensen’s impact (ICSUoA27Jensen1) reaches and supports social enterprise and private
sector bodies as a pathway to community engagement and policy change. Fowler’s ‘Enemies
Project’ (ICSUoA27Fowler2) explores new models of socially-engaged creative production in
collaboration with a variety of arts organisations. The research impact on local partners and
communities of members of the Unit is also reflected in the production of events it helps make
possible at venues such as the Rose Theatre (Upstone), Tate Modern (Palmer) and the ‘London
Theatre of the East’ exhibition (2019/20), to which Birchwood contributed as academic advisor to
the Arab British Centre and Dr Johnson’s House.

   •   Community enhancement and public engagement

The Unit actively seeks opportunities to engage with cultural institutions and communities. It makes
use of its Greater London location to establish collaborations with national bodies as well as local
partners. Building on the broader role of the creative economy, the Unit’s second major approach
to impact involves the cultural enhancement of the local community in Greater London, and
Kingston more specifically. This is in line with the University’s strong commitment to civic
engagement. Under Fowler’s direction the largely internal events structure of the former Kingston
Writing School has been reimagined as part of Writing Cultures with a mandate specifically
directed towards public-facing activity, advertising free events locally around the Kingston area and
on an independent website, and expanding its venues to outside the University including local
theatres, boat clubs, and museums, in order to attract public interest. Alongside talks, it also runs a
community writing group which combines book group activities with opportunities for creative
response. R/GMs’ collaboration with the Literary London Society, meanwhile, plans to extend the
London Fictions website and the Literary London Reading group to present a public lecture series
to increase awareness of London’s rich literary heritage.

A distinctive feature of the Unit’s impact in the period has been the development of novel
participatory strategies for engagement with literature through performance. Fowler’s experimental
approach to public poetry is a case in point, while Palmer’s queer clowning unsettles assumptions
about gender and racial identities; her workshops on new materialism at Tate Modern reached
both academics and researchers including PGR students, and members of the public. The shared
reading schemes (The Big Read; Reading Force) developed by Baverstock are, equally,
recognised as innovatory in focussing on some of the performative conditions of reading, not least
collectively, to enhance literary engagement and communities of reading.

   •   Policy engagement

From powerfully engaged journalism on pressing political issues (Cathcart) to concerted working
with NGOs nationally and internationally on key aspects of social justice (Jensen), the Unit strives
for impact through key interactions with policy and advocacy. Reflecting the orientation of both
Writing Cultures and R/GMs, researchers understand the forms of writing and creativity with which
they are involved as having strong impact potential in relation to policy engagement around a
variety of socio-political imperatives, as indicated below. Activity contributing to this aspect of the
Unit’s impact frequently builds directly on the impact reported in REF 2014.

Following the influence on UK government policy of the Hacked Off campaign, of which he was co-
founder, and taking forward work presented in one of the Unit’s 2014 impact case studies,
Cathcart has continued to investigate and publish his findings on the consequences of the
Leveson process for press regulation in order to restore public trust in the mainstream press. His
interventions in public debate surrounding the accountability of the press have established him as
a leading advocate of truth in reporting and a principal detractor of press corruption. Cathcart’s
exposure of racial and ethnic bias in the reporting of the Stephen Lawrence murder, his public
opposition to the suspension of Leveson 2, and his submission to the Cairncross Review continue
to influence government policy and spur public debate. Building on impact achieved through the
Military Writing Network, presented as an impact case study in REF 2014, Jensen’s contribution to
the development of literature and human rights as a disciplinary sub-field has led to key impacts in

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the delivery of training projects developed collaboratively with stakeholders in Iraq, Lebanon and
the UK, supported by the production of a handbook and digital materials in both English and
Arabic. As well as exploring the therapeutic effects, post-trauma, of expressive writing, Jensen has
trained hundreds of rights advocates and overseen deployment of the applied research to
thousands of conflict and gender-based survivors of trauma, engendering a shift in policy and
training protocols for the United Nations Development Project in Iraq (notably regarding the
collection and storage of witness testimony) as well as local charities in the Middle East and UK
government and private sector bodies, helping them attain organisational goals around social
cohesion and cultural recovery. Based on his research and expertise in the institutional and
archival histories of continental philosophy, from 2014 onwards Wortham collaborated with and
advised successive presidents of the Collège international de philosophie in Paris, during a time
when longstanding funding from the French state was in question and the reorganisation of
university and cultural organisations in Paris into new clusters threatened the institution’s
sustainability. The proposal was for the Collège to reposition by building stronger partnerships both
with international universities in the US and UK and with French cultural organisations within its
own cluster, such as the Archives Nationales and The Bibliothèque Nationale de France. The
Collège subsequently cemented relations with the latter organisations through a five-year Archives
Project proposed by Wortham, for which events have been held at a number of locations including
the Archives Nationales (2016) and Dorich House, Kingston (2017). Outputs include an edited
collection and ongoing digitisation of the Collège’s own audio archives.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy
In line with the University’s Academic Careers Development Framework, staff are supported to
develop skills and experience as researchers through training, appraisal and mentoring
opportunities. Experienced staff are encouraged to act as mentors and in advisory roles for grant
development and project oversight. The research platforms offer the context for targeted support to
increase the quality of research output through peer review.

In response to feedback from REF 2014, the staff composition of the Unit has evolved to more
closely reflect a defined set of disciplinary and interdisciplinary interests shaping the current
research environment. Research on early modern writing and cultural identity by Scarsi and
Birchwood complements work in Victorian and postcolonial studies by Agnew and Upstone,
whose interests in race and gender intersect with contemporary studies of sexuality and theory by
Jensen, Dines and Palmer. The latter’s work is complemented by critical and theoretical research
on key topics in culture and the humanities (Botting and Wortham), while Scott and Lambrou’s
interests in pragmatics, stylistics and narration support work in language and poetics. Fowler’s
writing adds a strong poetry element to the Unit’s research, and, along with Baron and Miller’s
interests in developing the reach of form and genre in fiction, enhances focus on formal
experimentation shared by creative writing colleagues. There is a productive balance between
senior and professorial staff providing research leadership and colleagues progressing from early
career to mature standing, which is crucial to the vitality and sustainability of a Unit characterised
by its strong commitment and recognised track record in doctoral research. In this census period,
the Unit’s former ECRs have benefited from research training and development either to take up
roles in the TECHNE AHRC doctoral training partnership Peer Review College (Johnson); or to
assume significant responsibilities for research leadership (Palmer leading on planning events and
seminars for the R/GM research group; Fowler directing impact activities) or to take teaching posts
elsewhere (Alfano, New College of the Humanities, Boyd Maunsell, Roehampton).

2.2 Staff development
Having made longstanding contributions to the academic and research culture of the subject area
at Kingston, three members of the Unit (Upstone, Baverstock and Jensen) have achieved
promotion to professorships during the assessment period. This reflects a development strategy
that has fostered careers over the long term. Each of the two research platforms co-ordinates
mentoring by senior staff members of researchers at an earlier career stage, helping them to
conceptualise effective programmes of creative and critical research and advising them both on the

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
publication of outputs and opportunities for collaboration and funding. Mentoring takes place
through interim and formal annual appraisals and informally through opportunities to share
research among colleagues and receive feedback on work in progress. The Unit provides targeted
research support for research-active staff; incentives to support research leadership, collaboration
and the development of research impact; and a staff-supported sabbatical scheme which crossed
the disciplinary boundaries of the Unit. University investment in staff research has provided over
£67,323 in individual grants (including QR-GCRF) awarded through a competitive bidding process,
to support activities including research travel and fieldwork, conference organization and
collaborative partnership development. Awards include £44,588 (2 QR-GCRF awards) for
Jensen’s work on the Expressive Writing Project (facilitating the development of
ICSUoA27Jensen1); a £10,000 international conference development award for R/GM, and 3
awards of up to £1000 each to Carey (former staff), Baverstock and Buse (former staff) for
international travel (Santander Universities Fund). An additional Faculty-level Research Staff
Development Fund meets requests for travel to conferences and other research-related activities.
Unit staff are encouraged to present their latest research through designated work-in-progress
seminar series run by the two research groupings, as well as during Festivals of Research hosted
by the Faculty and Graduate Research School and at Faculty level research and PGR events.

An annual researcher development programme is offered at institutional, faculty and school levels,
designed to implement research strategy. Training is also delivered by the Graduate Research
School through a structured programme aligned to the academic careers framework; and through
the biannual Festival of Research, benefitting PGR, ECR and new joiners and supporting career
development at all levels. The faculty, schools and departments hold regular research awaydays
and seminars aimed at development of researchers. This is supplemented through bespoke
activity such as targeting funding calls and impact development. The 2020 Festival of Research
programme, delivered online due to Covid-19, was driven by key areas of both current and future
strategy, with internal and external speakers exploring issues of interdisciplinarity, gender, and
equality, diversity and inclusivity.

2.3 Training and supervision of PGR students
At present, 30 postgraduate students are pursuing PhD degrees in the Unit, and PhD completions
have improved both in terms of real number (20 compared to 14 in REF 2014) and by staff FTE,
given the reduction in Unit size and relocation of some staff with supervisory responsibility to other
UoAs. The health of our PhD registrations is testament to redoubled efforts to recruit and obtain
funding for postgraduate students. By enhancing the clarity of the research environment, the Unit is
better positioned to benefit from the cast of writers and researchers it offers in order to attract
applications for doctoral study; the reorganisation of research has enabled each platform to define
more precisely its proposition to PGR students. PhD completions have also been aided by the
development of stronger discipline-specific training for students, enhanced monitoring procedures
and support, and greater training and development for staff undertaking PhD supervision, which all
staff have undertaken. Extensive research ethics training within the University also supports the
quality of PGR provision.

Since 2014, the Unit has become increasingly competitive in terms of doctoral funding awarded by
the TECHNE AHRC DTP, and the scheme currently provides PGR support for eight students in the
Unit. Upstone leads on external partner relations for TECHNE, while Lambrou, Dines, Botting
and Agnew regularly serve on the Panel Review committees. In addition to the DTP, the Unit will
take part in an AHRC funded CDP consortium, REACH (Revisiting and Enhancing Approaches to
Collections and Heritage), with Upstone as lead contact. External partners in these two consortia
include The Victoria and Albert Museum, BFI, National Trust, Historic Royal Palaces and the
National Portrait Gallery.

The Unit has a full programme of formal training for PGR students coordinated at the School level,
which meets bi-weekly throughout the academic year. Attendance is mandatory for first-year PGRs
and recommended for all research students. The programme focuses on practical skills and
research methods, and involves sessions led by Unit staff members focusing on their own
approaches to research. The training seminars offer opportunities for students to present their

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
work, both formally and informally. In addition, each research platform provides avenues for
students’ academic and professional development, with postgraduates involved at every level from
participation in seminars and conferences, delivery of work in progress to planning and
organisation of events. Postgraduate students are supported through research assistantships that
provide valuable early professional experience, including archival and editorial work, coordinating
seminars and organising conferences and maintaining Unit websites and social media.

The vitality and sustainability of the Unit’s research environment is evidenced by the success of its
doctoral students. Anthony Faramelli (2014) has worked as a lecturer in the Visual Cultures
Department at Goldsmiths, University of London, and has published a monograph on Resistance,
Revolution and Fascism with Bloomsbury (2018) and an edited collection, Spaces of Crisis and
Critique (Bloomsbury, 2018), with David Hancock and Robert G. White, former and current PhD
students at Kingston. Joanne Limburg (2017) is a Lecturer in Creative Writing at De Montford
University. Her Small Pieces: A Book of Lamentations (Atlantic Press, 2017) was shortlisted for the
Jewish Quarterly-Wingate Prize. She is also the author of a collection of poems, The Autistic Alice
(Bloodaxe Books, 2017). Peter Ely (2018) has a contract with Bloomsbury for a joint-edited
collection with Upstone, From Blair to Brexit: Community in Contemporary British Fiction
(forthcoming, 2022). Daniel Read (2019) has published two peer-reviewed journal articles in the
Iris Murdoch Review (2017, 2020). Amy Greenhough (2020) is an associate lecturer at Falmouth
University and has an essay in Teverson's Cultural History of Fairy Tales, Volume 6, (Bloomsbury:
forthcoming, 2021). Dana Alex (current AHRC-funded) has published an essay on Patrick McGrath
in Patrick McGrath and his Worlds: Madness and the Transnational Gothic, eds. Foley and Duncan
(Routledge, 2020). In terms of current PhD students, Joe Pierson won The Peggy Chapman-
Andrews Award for a First Novel in the annual Bridport Prize International Creative Writing
Competition (2020); Eve Grubin has published poems in Poetry Review and PN Review.

2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion
Equality, diversity and inclusion is a key priority at both institutional and Unit level. The Unit
supports the University’s Code of Practice in seeking to broaden and promote diversity among staff
and students. At Kingston, over 60% of students come from BAME backgrounds, and Kingston is
one of only a very small handful of HEIs in the UK to have established the BME awarding gap as a
KPI. The University also holds the Race Equality Charter bronze award and an Athena Swan
bronze award. Its Beyond Barriers mentoring scheme is used to ensure that all staff and students
have the best opportunities in their study or work, and that the institution delivers its equality
objectives. Unit researchers have engaged with the Scheme as mentors and mentees and are also
members of the KU-wide Network of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Champions. All staff
undertake unconscious bias training, including in relation to peer review of research.

The Unit itself is composed of 9 (47%) female and 10 (53%) male researchers. 79% of staff identify
as white (21% not provided or prefer not to say); 16% have a declared disability; the age range is
the unit is relatively evenly spread over the 31-65 age range. Whilst on a par with the national
sector (Advance HE data), addressing the diversity of Black, Asian and minority ethnic staff is
clearly a priority for the future.

Institutional efforts to meet the needs of this diverse student body are reflected in the Unit’s
initiatives that promote equality and inclusion in our research, staffing strategies, PhD recruitment
and training. Both R/GM and Writing Cultures have at their core a commitment to theorising the
mechanisms of racial, ethnic and gender inequalities, and the Unit’s practice is underpinned by
these efforts, with symposia and conferences including academics, writers and performers from
diverse communities. The 2018/19 application cycle for KU Studentships explicitly encouraged
applications by BAME candidates. Approximately 25% of the applicants the Unit interviewed for
this were BAME students, one of whom was awarded full funding to pursue a thesis in Creative
Writing. At both PGR and staff levels, the Unit participates in the Beyond Barriers mentoring
programme for female and BAME staff and PGR students.

With a teaching colleague dedicated to developing Race Equality Charter Membership as well as
chairing the National Education Opportunities Network BME Learners’ working group (Lipsedge),

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Upstone led a training event for ArCC in 2016 on unconscious bias and closing the BME awarding
gap; Agnew is currently articulating her research in Victorian colonial studies with innovations in
teaching by developing a project aimed at decolonising the curriculum. This knowledge and
experience within the subject area continues to enhance our awareness of and sensitivity to
building a Unit that reflects the diversity of the institution in which it is located. All staff in the Unit
take training in unconscious bias, and Unit Coordinators are required to take training in
unconscious bias and equality in staffing practices.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The Unit benefits from a supportive and well-resourced environment for research including Faculty-
facing Research, Business and Impact Development Managers from within the University
Research, Business and Innovation Office (RBI). They assist staff in identifying opportunities for
external funding, developing grant applications, identifying external partners, designing pathways
to impact, as well as evidencing and evaluating impact. RBI coordinates a structured process of
internal peer review of applications. Internal support ranges from research group and departmental
mentoring, peer review and faculty-level training, such as grant-writing workshops which enable
staff to devote concentrated effort toward completing funding applications. There is specialist RBI
support at Faculty level in preparing research funding application budgets, and a Finance post
award team dedicated to Research/Enterprise. At School level, a Director of Research provides
dedicated support to the Unit, coordinates research strategy, and works with the Faculty’s
Associate Dean of RBI and Research Development Manager to track and assist in developing
current and planned research bids. There has been a competitive sabbatical scheme within the
Unit, concentrated at the beginning of the cycle, based on the production of quality outputs and
research projects that may attract external funding. Smaller-scale targeted teaching relief is
available to support research activity such as developing funding applications and collaborating
with partners toward the development of research projects and impact.

The total of mainstream external income per FTE has increased by 12.7% and stands at £347,275,
with grants from a variety of sources including UK government bodies and charities awarded to
support research leave, personal research and project-based initiatives. During this reporting
period, former staff member Phillippy was awarded a Leverhulme Research Fellowship for
monograph research. Two staff members (Phillippy and Wortham) sponsored Leverhulme Early
Career Fellowships, and Jensen was awarded grants from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office,
the AHRC Global Challenges Fund and Beyond Borders Scotland. We have also benefitted
strongly from AHRC graduate studentships through the ‘TECHNE’ DTP (‘services’ research
income).

 Research Group             ‘Services’     Mainstream     Headline value of
                            research       research       new mainstream
                            income         income         awards
 Writing Cultures                  £75,747        £47,968             £39,947
 Race/Gender Matters               £74,842       £299,308           £134,466

Researchers have the advantage of Kingston’s proximity to the dynamic cultural climate of London,
and make use of London’s libraries and archives, including the British Library, the National
Archives, Senate House and other University of London libraries and archives. All staff are
provided with laptops or desktop computers, and IT support is responsive and readily available.
Students have ample access to computers, printers and IT support through the Learning Centre
and IT Service Desk. Interlibrary Loan services are swift and reliable. The main University library
was rehoused in 2020 in the University’s new Townhouse Building, creating significantly enhanced
study space, augmented with publicly accessible events, exhibition and performance space. The
Unit also provides stewardship of four of the University’s major archival collections (Iris Murdoch,
Orange Prize, Stephen Sondheim and Sheridan Morley) which provide a rich repository for
doctoral and postdoctoral researchers as well as visiting scholars. One of the Unit’s objectives is
the protection and enhancement of these collections and their increased integration into research,
an approach which has led to the publication of an important edited collection of Iris Murdoch’s

                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
letters by former staff member Rowe and Emeritus Professor Horner. The Murdoch archive is a
resource that attracts international audiences of researchers and enthusiasts, and has supported
several PhD students whose theses make use of its holdings. The archive has recently been gifted
£10,000 for its preservation by John Bayley’s widow. It took a vital part in events for the Iris
Murdoch centenary in 2019, in collaboration with the Iris Murdoch research centre at Chichester
and archives at Oxford University. Since 2014, the archive has seen an annual average of over
200 researchers viewing nearly 1000 items. The virtual archive of the papers of the Leveson
inquiry curated by Cathcart has enjoyed similarly strong impact since opening in 2019:
DiscoverLeveson.com has received just under 10m hits and 1.5m page views.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations
While the Unit supports high-quality individual scholarship in each of its key areas of interest, it has
also promoted research initiatives and collaborative opportunities and projects with other higher
education institutions and non-academic partners.

i. Writing Cultures

Staff have developed collaborative relationships with external partners in greater London and the
Southeast, including The Museum of Futures, Sampson Low Publishing, Rich Mix, Rose Theatre
Kingston, International PEN and the Stanley Picker Gallery. It has held public events in a number
of venues including Dorich House Museum, the Jerwood Gallery and the Rose Theatre
(International PEN event). Baverstock’s shared reading projects, The Big Read and Reading
Force, have partners in public libraries and universities across the Southeast, recently expanding
their reach nationally and internationally. Jensen’s work on trauma has involved collaboration with
colleagues from Sussex University, the Open University and the University of Minnesota, as well
as a range of other bodies and organisations nationally and internationally. Her expressive writing
project has collaborated with Lebanese NGOs, the United Nations, Inmaa Iraq and the UK Foreign
and Commonwealth Office Fowler’s ‘Enemies Project’ has as its very medium widespread
collaboration with a variety of arts organisations, and its vision of socially-engaged creative
production has led to a host of productive relationships, ranging from English PEN to the Wellcome
Trust.

ii. Race/Gender Matters

Dines has served as Advisory Board Member for the Senate House Exhibition and events series,
‘Queer between the Covers’, and the AHRC funded project ‘Queer beyond London’, and is a
member of the AHRC funded research network, ‘Home, Crisis and the Imagination’. He has taken
leadership roles with the Literary London Society, which has entered into close collaboration with
R/GM. Lambrou has chaired the Poetics and Linguistics Association. In collaboration with the
COST research action ‘How Matter Comes to Matter’, Palmer has undertaken research activities
with partners in Sydney, Warsaw and Utrecht, and conducted workshops at Tate Modern. Scarsi is
collaborating with the Centro Studi Tassiani around a manuscript by Bernardo Tassi that she
discovered during archival research in Bergamo. Scarsi is also part of a research collaboration on
early modern poetry with staff at Paris 13, Nanterre and Strasbourg. Wortham has collaborated
extensively with the Collège international de philosophie in Paris.

4.2 Contributions to the research base, economy and society
The Unit’s contributions to the range of disciplines in which staff participate are in three main
areas: national and international reach and recognition, expanding the borders of academic
discourse, and cultural engagement and public debate.

Reach and recognition

Staff regularly present their work at international conferences and have been invited guest
speakers or panel organisers at institutions based in countries including France, Denmark,

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Canada, the USA, Norway, Australia, Sweden, The Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland. Within the
UK, staff have been invited to speak at international academic events including AHRC-funded
network and research project events (Upstone, Dines) and major festivals of the arts and
humanities (Jensen, Baron, Miller, Fowler). Among creative writing staff, Bailey is an award-
winning author of 13 novels, 2 biographies and a memoir; Kureishi is an internationally acclaimed
author of 6 novels, 5 collections of short stories and essays and 15 plays and screenplays;
Baron’s children’s books have been awarded Oxfordshire Schools Book Award, as well as 7 other
literary prizes, and have been named books of the month by The Guardian, Waterstone’s and The
Times.

By assuming leadership roles in international scholarly organisations, and through the influence of
their published outputs on national and international academic audiences, staff in the Unit have
established Kingston’s reputation as a vital centre of scholarly exchange. Fowler is an executive
editor of the European Review of Poetry, Books and Culture. Upstone is Section Editor of the
journal Postcolonial Text and on the editorial board of Literary London. Dines is the President of
the Literary London Society and Member of Executive Committee, British Association of American
Studies. Botting serves on the editorial boards of Gothic Studies, Horror Studies, Miranda, and
Aeternum. Wortham serves on editorial and advisory boards for Textual Practice, New
Formations, Journal for Cultural Research and Derrida Today. Agnew is on the Advisory board of
Victorian Popular Fictions. Palmer is on the Editorial board of Matter: A New Materialist Journal.
Baverstock is on the Board of Management of The Literary Consultancy. Dines is the Editor of the
Literary London Journal. In addition, staff review widely for refereed journals and for academic
presses including Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, Manchester, Michigan, Minnesota, Wayne State,
Purdue, Fordham and Ohio State University presses.

Expanding the borders of academic discourse

The Unit is engaged in sustained public engagement, external collaboration and outward-facing
research which aims to stretch the boundaries of academic discourse, challenge disciplinary
distinctions, and generate new forms of knowledge. A number of works produced in this cycle have
reframed their fields of study. Upstone’s Postmodern Literature and Race is the first collection in
the field devoted to considering the racial politics of postmodern writing; Dines’ work on queer
cultures of 1950s literature as part of the Decades series of books draws attention to previously
obscured issues of gender and sexuality in mid-twentieth century writing, while Jensen’s work on
life writing and trauma has not only produced notable public impact, but has also demonstrated
how writing cultures exceed the boundaries of academic discourse and have far-reaching socio-
political implications.

Scholars have also expanded academic discourse through their work with public audiences,
offering opportunities for new disciplinary conjunctions and sharing of previously distinct
perspectives. Palmer’s work uses public performance to shape research, bringing together new
materialist and posthuman discourses explored through a combination of performance poetry,
clowning and written works. Fowler’s curatorial approach to the presentation and production of
writing draws attention to the relationship between formal poetry and performance in ways that
challenge current trends in spoken word poetry.

Cultural engagement and public debate

The outputs of some Unit members have offered public commentary on issues of concern both
within and beyond the University. Botting presented public lectures on the Gothic at venues
including Sheffield Art Gallery and the British Library. Johnson appeared as an expert on the
Georgian seaside on Channel 4’s Great British Buildings. Dines was interviewed on BBC Radio
Gloucester about American suburbia and was invited to speak at the Cheltenham Literary Festival.
Palmer presented her queer clowning work at the Queerest of the Queer festival at London’s
Coronet Theatre and Upstone spoke on friendship at the Concept Album Talks. Baron contributed
to the BBC Radio London Jo Goode show, and featured in the literary panel event Literary Death
Match and presented at the English PEN Modern Literature Festival 2016. Cathcart’s journalism

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on regulation of the press extends the reach of his activities with the Leveson Inquiry into
subsequent policy decisions and public debates. By exploring topics of popular interest from the
perspective of philosophical history, Wortham participated alongside neuroscientists, cultural and
literary historians and creative writers in public engagement events on the theme of sleep, one held
by the Forum for Philosophy at the LSE (with a subsequent podcast), and another a UCL-
organised event held at the Free Word Centre in London. Fowler’s work has been commissioned
for the BBC Radio 3 show The Verb, and has featured in more than 30 international events
including the Stockholm International Poetry Festival, Poetry Ireland, the Bucharest Literary
Festival, Mumbai Times Literary Festival, Airwaves Festival Iceland, Krokodil Festival Belgrade,
Highlight Arts Iraq, and the Iskele Poetry Festival Cyprus.(Botting) was awarded a Lifetime
Achievement Award from International Association for the Fantastic in the Arts (2018); another
(Kureishi) holds the CBE for services to literature and the Chevalier des l’Ordre des Arts et des
Lettres.




                                                                                           Page 13
