Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: 14

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 The School of Geography and Environmental Sciences at Ulster University (UU) undertakes
 research of the highest international quality. Our submission in previous research assessments
 demonstrates this and shows clear commitment and progression to delivering the sustainable
 growth of high-quality international research. In REF2014, we recorded a 37% improvement from
 RAE2008 in 4*/3* world-leading or internationally excellent research and we have carried this
 momentum into this REF cycle. Our research in REF2021 is strategically aligned with the
 University’s Research and Impact Strategy (2017-2022) (See REF5a). Throughout REF2021, we
 have championed the delivery of innovative and impactful research in support of UU’s priority
 interdisciplinary research themes - Sustainability, Social Renewal and Healthy Communities -
 which are closely aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Our research
 strategy flowed from the delivery of these strategic priorities and provided a clear focus for
 addressing issues of global relevance through multi- and inter-disciplinary research in geography
 and environmental sciences. Our research successes throughout REF2021 ensure that we have
 a sustainable, vibrant research environment that supports our researchers to make important
 contributions to the vitality of the University, our disciplinary base and to wider society.

 The School has a thriving research environment consisting of 21 academic staff, 4 technicians, 4
 administrative support staff, 29 registered postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and during REF2021
 we recruited 22 externally funded postdoctoral research associates (PDRAs). 100% of our
 academic staff and one of our PDRAs have Significant Research Responsibilities (SRR) giving a
 total submission 19.6 FTEs in REF2021. This is an increase of 6.5% FTEs since REF2014 and
 is a positive indicator of our sustainability. We provide a collaborative, integrated working
 environment to retain and sustain the vitality of the Unit, and to deliver our strategic goals for
 research and research-led teaching on our undergraduate and postgraduate degrees (Fig. 1). In
 2020, we were ranked 12th out of 66 for geography and environmental studies across the
 UK in the Guardian university league tables, a performance that reflects our commitment to
 sustaining our culture of research-led teaching excellence across the School.

 The Unit is managed by the Research Director (RD) (Dunlop) and the Head of School (HoS)
 (Benetti) who provide strategic leadership in a collaborative working environment. Our research
 is focused in two research clusters, one for environmental processes, management and
 sustainability, and the other researching heritage, conflict and society, that operate within the
 Centre for Environmental Spatial Data Analytics (CESDA) (Fig. 1). Each cluster is led by an expert
 in their field (Jordan and McDowell), and the CESDA Director (Moore), supports the strategic
 development and leadership of interdisciplinary research. CESDA is a new research centre,
 established with institutional support, that provided new posts and research facilities to support
 the delivery of our REF2021 strategy (See sections 2 & 3). CESDA provides shared geo-spatial
 expertise and resources to develop and support interdisciplinary research across the School,
 University and international research community.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 1. School/research unit structure

 All staff are affiliated with a cluster, are encouraged to take part in the activities of the other and
 are members of CESDA. The RD, cluster leads and CESDA Director have bi-monthly research
 meetings to review and develop the research strategy. Our research structures provide clear
 focus for our mission and allow flexibility for staff to conduct research within their specialisms and
 across the clusters in interdisciplinary teams. We have created an inclusive research space that
 respects individual geographical disciplines, while creating strategic interdisciplinary
 collaborations to support the delivery of UU’s strategic research themes, underpinned by a clearly
 articulated School strategy for research and impact that provides supportive opportunities for
 researchers to realise their potential and for their work to effect change within and beyond the
 academy.

 The success of our approach and vitality of our research environment is evident in the 421
 papers, 102 chapters and 9 books published during REF2021. 94% of our submitted outputs
 to REF2021 are in the top 10% of Scimago Journal Rankings, 71% involve international co-
 authors and 58% are among the world’s most cited publications (Scopus). Our citation rankings
 are one indicator of the vitality of our research, another is the financial support we obtained to
 fund it. Through the combination of the scope of our subject, the potential for practical application,
 and the Unit’s commitment to sustainability and vitality, we developed impactful projects and
 strategically targeted a wide variety of funders from the UK, EU, all-Ireland and trans-continental
 sources that supported our activities in six continents, thirty-one countries, three oceans and on
 Mars. Evidence of the success of our strategy includes substantial funding over this REF period
 with £6.5M being awarded from five of the nine UKRI Research Councils (NERC, AHRC,
 BBSRC, ESRC, STFC), GCRF, EU research programmes and other competitive national and
 international funding agencies.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our REF2021 strategy focused on our core strengths to deliver world-class research in support of
 UU’s Research and Impact Strategy, which at Faculty level, is overseen by the Associate Dean
 for Research and Impact (ADRI) (Fig. 1). The RD led the strategy in consultation with the ADRI,
 all School staff at multi-annual research away-days and further refined by the School’s Research
 Committee. Our aim is to undertake internationally excellent research that:

  (1) Understands geological, earth surface and environmental processes in a changing world.

  (2) Deepens our knowledge about societal conflict, mobility, poverty, health and heritage.

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  (3) Seeks to use this research to influence policy making and quality of life through public
      engagement.

 Our objectives during this REF period were:

      •   Publish outputs that make important advances in the field
      •   Attract substantial competitive research funding
      •   Embed impact into our research culture
      •   Attract and retain high-quality research staff
      •   Produce high-quality PGRs
      •   Have mechanisms in place for staff development, diversity and equality to support
          research performance

 We emphasise research integrity and rigour, which is supported by UU’s Code of Practice for
 Professional Integrity in the Conduct of Research (See REF5a). All staff and PGRs are trained in
 UU’s ethics policy with 100% completion of UU’s research integrity course. All projects are
 screened by the School and University ethics committees before final approval. We recognise
 and value that our research should be openly accessible to all. Researchers are encouraged to
 publish in open access outlets and all staff use either the Gold or Green Open Access options and
 deposit research outputs in UU’s open access portal, PURE. A dedicated administrator ensures
 that outputs comply with open access regulations and our research is publicly and freely
 accessible to the academic community and general public.

 Achievements since REF2014

 Environmental Processes, Management and Sustainability Cluster (Leader, Jordan, 9.8
 FTE). Research in this cluster is aligned with UU’s Sustainability theme, which we lead on behalf
 of UU. We focus on understanding the interlinked physical, biological and chemical processes
 operating in the Earth’s crust and surface to enable a better understanding of the sustainability
 of environmental systems and their management. Key research themes are freshwater security,
 catchment dynamics, glaciation, palaeo-climate, sea-level change, coastal processes,
 earthquakes, planetary geomorphology and marine ecology.

 Our catchment science and freshwater research enhances the sustainable management of water
 resources, enabling our researchers to achieve impact with important benefits for nature and
 society. Our large EU Interreg consortium projects include, €13.7M CatchmentCARE: Community
 Actions for Resilient Ecosystems (Jordan, Arnscheidt, Douglas, McKenzie, 2018-21, £804k),
 €5.3M, Source to Tap (Jordan, 2017-22, £295k) and €9.4M Collaborative Action for the Natura
 Network (CANN) (Arnscheidt, 2017-21, £300k). Catchment science achievements include:
 understanding how global climate circulation affects regional diffuse nutrient patterns across NW
 Europe (Jordan); new knowledge of macronutrient and sediment dynamics, links and feedbacks
 in river catchments using combinations of experimental, long-term and high-resolution data
 (Hunter, Jordan); and the development of a fine-scale GIS-based method that identifies pollution
 hotspots on agricultural land, which we operationalised into a public sector tool to improve water
 quality and presented as a REF2021 Impact Case Study (ICS) (Jordan, Dunlop). Freshwater
 biochemistry research discovered that filter feeding zooplankton encourages the growth and
 proliferation of multi-resistant bacteria in aquatic environments (Arnscheidt); antimicrobials and
 artificial estrogens from emerging pharmaceutical contaminants suppress microbial metabolism in
 urban rivers (Hunter); and that contaminant metal cycling in freshwater aquatic systems can be
 used to increase our understanding and modelling of metal partitioning behaviour in lakes
 (Douglas). Freshwater biogeography research provided a new explanation of the origin, range
 expansion and speciation of the groundwater crustacean Niphargus across Europe (Arnscheidt).




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are at the forefront of delivering cutting-edge science on how aeolian processes operate on
 Mars (Avouac, Jackson, Cooper). Our innovative research is being applied in a £375k UK Space
 Agency project, where our aeolian modelling of the Oxia Planum landing site, will be used by the
 European Space Agency to inform the landing plans and sampling locations for the ExoMars rover
 mission in 2022 (Jackson, STFC, 2019–22, £70k)

 We use a range of techniques including remote sensing, geophysical survey, cosmogenic
 isotopes, radiocarbon dating, geomorphological and sedimentological analysis, and numerical
 modelling to refine our understanding of glacial systems and ice sheet–climate–ocean
 interactions. We played a leading a role in international research consortiums such as the €4.4M
 EU Marie-Curie Action: Initial Training Network, Glaciated North Atlantic Margins (GLANAM)
 consortium (Dunlop, Benetti, 2013–17, £232k) and the £3.3M, BRITICE–CHRONO NERC
 consortium (Benetti, 2011–18, £34k) researching palaeo-ice sheet history and the role marine-
 based ice sheets played in the evolution of the Atlantic margin. Published highlights include
 developing a new understanding of the drivers of instability in marine-based ice sheets and
 creating new regional deglacial models, that have refined the pattern and timing of deglaciation in
 the western sector the British Irish Ice Sheet (Dunlop, Benetti, Clark). Our research generated
 important insights on how glaciers and ice sheets regulate and respond to global climate and drive
 sea level change (Clark, McNabb, Cooper); is informing policy challenges of sea-level rise and
 human migration (Clark, Cooper); and our novel remote-sensing approaches for measuring
 glacier velocities have produced new insights on the impacts of glaciation on mountainous
 landscapes during the past few million years (Avouac).

 We collaborated with NGO Concern Worldwide in our NERC-PURE project, Aftershock
 Forecasting Tool for Emergency Response, (Dunlop, 2015-16, £154k) to co-develop approaches
 that give, near real-time probabilistic forecasts of the intensity and spatial distribution of
 aftershocks. Concern Worldwide operationalised these tools during its response to the devastating
 2015 Nepal earthquake to provide safe humanitarian aid. We developed this further in
 collaboration with University of Edinburgh on the £160k NERC-GCRF project, Research for
 Emergency Aftershock Response (REAR) (Dunlop, McDowell, 2016-17, £6k). REAR deployed
 an interdisciplinary team of experts in social science, history, education, geography, earth science
 and computing to explore citizen science approaches to building community resilience to
 aftershocks. Our investigation of the Nepal earthquake provided a new understanding of seismic
 processes and shed new light on the source of destructive seismic waves during seismic ruptures
 (Avouac). We used a novel method to detect and image slow slip events (SSEs) along the
 subduction interface beneath the Cascadia megathrust, USA. These follow similar laws to regular
 earthquakes, opening the possibility that SSEs might be used to develop and test dynamic models
 of the seismic cycle with application to regular earthquakes (Avouac).

 In the field of climate change response, we identified the effects of extreme storm seasons on the
 coasts of NW Europe (Jackson) and are applying this knowledge in pre-and post-storm research
 in the Caribbean (Jackson, Cefas 2019–20, £15.5k). We also discovered an integrated global
 signature of climate change manifest in decadal stabilisation of coastal dunes worldwide
 (Jackson). In a changing climate, our research shows that the effects of species loss on coastal
 sediment carbon capture and storage are mediated by ocean warming (Hunter). We are leaders
 in investigating geological constraints on coastal response to sea-level rise and the key role of the
 shoreface in this regard was the subject of our EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Global Fellowship,
 NEARshore geological CONTROL (NEARCONTROL) (Cooper, 2016–19, £154k). In
 understanding coastal responses to sea-level rise, we applied our knowledge of decadal to
 centennial-scale coastal change with seismic-stratigraphic approaches to continental shelf
 sediments. This allows us to identify palaeo-shorelines and relate their development and
 preservation to sea level changes in near and far-field sites (Cooper). Coastal zone management
 and marine ecosystem sustainability are central components of the €6.4M EU Interreg Marine
 Protected Area Management and Monitoring (MarPAMM) consortium (Jackson, Cooper,
 McGonigle, 2018–22, £587k). MarPAMM is developing tools for monitoring and managing
 protected coastal environments, marine species and ecosystems in Ireland, NI and Scotland.
 MarPAMM will impact on national policy decisions in the UK and Ireland by providing Article 17

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Submissions for the EC Habitats Directive and OSPAR under Natura 2000 through our
 collaborations with National Parks and Wildlife Service, Ireland, the NI Department of Agriculture
 Environment Rural Affairs (DAERA) and Marine Scotland Science.

 Heritage, Conflict & Society Cluster (Leader, McDowell, 9.8 FTE). Research in this cluster is
 aligned with UU’s strategic research themes, Social Renewal and Healthy Communities, and
 champions the delivery of innovative research on peace and conflict, economic disparity, health,
 mobility and cultural heritage and the interdisciplinary boundaries that span these.

 A central facet of our research is understanding the core causes of violent conflict and developing
 cultural approaches to peacebuilding. We applied our extensive experience of researching the
 NI conflict to investigate the use of heritage spaces in the conflict cycle through several projects
 that examined memory and commemoration (McDowell, AHRC 2014 £21k; 2015 £78k; NI
 Strategic Investment Board, 2017, £15k; NI Executive Office (NIEO), 2018, £15k). This research
 pioneered a new understanding of how heritage sites and practices can help to underpin
 peacebuilding processes amongst interface communities in NI and in marginalised communities
 abroad (McDowell, Flanders Department of Foreign Affairs, 2017, £19k). McDowell was also an
 Expert Advisor to a specialist group of peacemakers for the Bogota Peacebuilding Forum during
 Colombia’s peace talks (COFAMA, 2017–18, £61k). The NIEO strategy - Together: Building a
 United Community (TBUC) - committed government to removing all “peace walls” in NI by 2023
 as a central facet for underpinning peace. In support of its lead role in the TBUC commitment,
 the Department of Justice commissioned research into the impacts these physical barriers have
 on NI society (Cook 2016–19, £29k), which was published as a series of policy briefs. We
 investigated the complexities of globalisation and conflict by examining migration at various
 scales from historic contexts (Breen, Forsythe) to the European refugee crisis (McDowell),
 children’s experiences of mobility in divided societies (Cook), and by examining the ramifications
 of ‘selling’ migration to international students (Beech).

 We developed strategic interdisciplinary partnerships with UU’s Schools of Biomedical Sciences,
 Computing and Psychology to investigate how socio-economic deprivation affects aging and
 mental health. Moore developed novel GIS methodologies for three interdisciplinary projects that
 investigated: links between nutrition and healthy aging (BBSRC–JPI, 2017–19, £183k); how
 supervised machine learning techniques can identify key predictors of cognitive dysfunction in
 older people (National Health & Social Care Trust (HSC) 2019–21, £99k); and the
 geodemographic neighbourhood factors associated with mental health (HSC R&D Public Health
 Agency, 2019-2021, £205k). His publications provide new evidence on the importance of socio-
 spatial neighbourhood area effects on mental health and is a novel approach for enhancing
 medical and clinical datasets with socio-economic data to evaluate their robustness in respect of
 baseline populations.

 Our fuel poverty research directly changed the policies and funding strategies of the NI
 government, who used our innovative GIS methodology to identify fuel-poor households across
 NI to provide £64M worth of energy efficiency measures (McKenzie, Dept. of Communities NI,
 2017-21; £28k; 2018-21, £15k). This approach has brought significant economic benefits,
 including positive health and wellbeing gains equivalent to £93M and is presented as one of our
 ICS (McKenzie). We are extending our expertise to the wider UK in the £1.25M FAIR consortium
 (Fuel and transport poverty in the UK's energy transition) (McKenzie, 2020–22, £38k) that has
 15 academic and 8 industrial partners working in collaboration with University of Oxford’s Centre
 for Research into Energy Demand Solutions (CREDS). FAIR is investigating ways of delivering
 equitable energy transitions for the UK, as it moves towards a zero-carbon energy system to
 meet its obligations under the Paris Agreement and UK Climate Change Act.

 Internationally, Bhatti developed geospatial techniques in the fields of urban and population
 geography and published new methods for assessing and analysing the determinants of
 urbanisation in Asia. This has significantly contributed to our understanding of spatial inequalities
 in terms of quality of life, infrastructure development, socioeconomic conditions and planning. His


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 published research is at the forefront of understanding how to mitigate against the negative
 impacts of urban heat islands in tropical cities.

 Our heritage research focuses on understanding natural and anthropogenic processes that drive
 change in cultural landscapes to develop better mitigation strategies for conservation. In response,
 we created innovative remote sensing and geoscientific methods for quantifying this change. We
 developed novel methods for detecting submerged shipwrecks in ocean colour satellite data
 (Quinn) and new approaches for very high-resolution imaging of rapidly deteriorating metal-hulled
 historic shipwrecks (Westley, Quinn, McGonigle Irish National Development Plan Ship-Time
 Awards, 2015-16, €119k). We developed the first successful computational fluid dynamic
 simulations in underwater archaeology, to quantify the roles of linked hydro and sediment-
 dynamics in the formation and preservation of historic shipwrecks (Quinn). Our innovative satellite
 remote sensing approaches have also been applied to documenting endangered maritime
 heritage sites across conflict zones as part of the £2M ‘Arcadia Fund’ consortium, Maritime
 Endangered Archaeology in the Middle East and North Africa (MarEA) (Breen, Westley, Quinn,
 Forsythe, 2019–23, £784k). As part of the £2.6M AHRC GCRF ‘Rising from the Depths’ network,
 we are investigating the positive role that heritage can play in societal development in East Africa
 (Breen, 2017–21, £46k). This network funds innovation projects to fill knowledge gaps that
 currently limit the way marine cultural heritage (MCH) contributes to sustainable social, cultural
 and economic growth. In 2019, the ‘Rising from the Depths’ network awarded £129k for three
 GCRF projects led by Forsythe and McGonigle to: 1) assess long term sea-level change and
 societal response in Mozambique; 2) investigate how MCH can improve the socio-economic
 conditions for coastal communities in Kenya; and 3) explore the extent of traditional heritage
 knowledge among island fishing communities in Kenya and Tanzania, and how this knowledge
 has supported sustainable utilisation of marine and coastal resources.

 Achieving impact
 To achieve impact, we used our strategic partnerships in industry, local government, NGOs,
 charities and community organisations to build collaborative projects with clear societal benefits.
 UU supported our researchers through the Impact Development Series, a dedicated support
 programme designed to help researchers understand and enhance research impact, track and
 evidence it and generate new pathways to impact. Dedicated Faculty Impact Officers (FIO) were
 also appointed to support staff and we provided bespoke, Unit-level initiatives to help staff create
 impactful research:

    •   CESDA provided interdisciplinary expertise and resources to stimulate the development of
        innovative geospatial solutions for real world problems and supported ICS leads to develop
        novel GIS tools that were central components of our ICSs.

    •   The RD provided seed corn funding to support and encourage staff to develop impactful
        research projects.

    •   In addition to participating in the Impact Development Series, we ran impact workshops
        for our staff and PGRs, delivered by Fast Track Impact, that focused on strategies to
        develop and embed impact into research.

    •   The FIO and RD held regular meetings with ICS leads to review progress and provided
        targeted financial support and practical assistance to support the development of high-
        quality ICSs.

 Our approach was central to identifying two projects that delivered significant impacts in the areas
 of water quality management (Jordan, Dunlop) and fuel poverty remediation (McKenzie) that we
 presented as two ICS’s for REF2021. Our approach has embedded a strong, sustainable impact
 agenda within the Unit and our leadership on interdisciplinary consortiums designed to deliver
 tangible impacts, such as MarPAMM (2018–22), FAIR (2020–22), AHRC GCRF Rising from the
 Depths (2017–21) MarEA (2019–23) CatchmentCARE: (2018-21) and our UK Space Agency work

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on Mars (2019–22), provide clear evidence of the vitality of our impact agenda and will allow us to
 deliver meaningful impacts over the next REF cycle.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
 Our future strategy will capitalise on our significant achievements in REF2021 to develop further
 world-leading research which aims to bring about meaningful impacts for science and society:

    •   We are partners in the All-Ireland Climate and Biodiversity Research Network (AICBRN)
        that was established in 2019. This major initiative brings together leading science and
        social science research centres across the whole island of Ireland to tackle the climate
        and biodiversity emergency where a trans-national, multidisciplinary approach is
        essential. The AICBRN’s ambitious 10-year €100M plan includes the recruitment of world-
        leading professorial chairs, the creation of an all-island centre for research training,
        postdoctoral fellowships, and infrastructure grants to maximize research impact. The
        AICBRN will connect with national funding agencies, government and industry bodies to
        develop the large-scale multidisciplinary initiatives necessary to underpin policy, industrial
        strategies, and opportunities to benefit society.

    •   We will use our international networks to build the large multidisciplinary teams that are
        necessary to address major societal challenges and support our goals of generating
        impactful research and maintaining sustainable income. We will develop innovative
        research projects that are suitable for targeting UKRI and other major funding bodies. In
        addition to having access to Horizon Europe (2021-27), our unique place within the UK
        gives us access to other EU funding streams including EU PEACE IV, INTERREG VA
        (until 2023) and PEACE PLUS (€650M, 2021–27). With our strong track record of
        achieving success in these programs, we are ideally positioned to lead innovative projects
        that will secure sustainable funding. In addition, with our Irish partners, we will apply for
        other cross-border funding to the Science Foundation Ireland, and the Irish Environmental
        Protection Agency and Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 UU has signed up to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the
 Unit has embraced the University’s initiatives designed to effectively implement all aspects of the
 Institutional Contract Research Staff (CRS) policy. We adhere to the University’s policy to provide
 equality of opportunity to all. Diversity and inclusivity are valued, actively promoted and embedded
 in all research processes and policies as outlined in UU’s REF2021 Code of Practice, which places
 people at its centre and ensures barrier free processes to maximise inclusivity and participation in
 REF. We used it as our roadmap for identifying SRR staff and selecting outputs for REF2021. UU
 is highly committed to the principles that underpin the Athena SWAN Charter and the School’s
 commitment to these policies was recognised by achieving a Bronze Athena SWAN Award in
 2017. Our team comprises a dynamic blend of senior staff, providing research leadership, and
 high-calibre mid to early career researchers working in a highly collaborative environment that is
 central to our vitality, and our age profile ensures our staffing levels remain sustainable (Figures
 2 & 3).




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                       Figure 2. Staff Grades




                                       Figure 3. Age profiles


 Our staffing strategy is central to the sustainability of the Unit and strategic succession planning
 ensures that there is continuity in our key research areas and vitality in new appointments. In
 support of our REF2021 strategy, UU funded new posts that strengthened the interdisciplinary
 expertise of CESDA and our research clusters. Since REF2014 we have appointed two
 internationally leading adjunct professors (Avouac, Clark) and a new lecturer (McNabb) to
 develop new capabilities in remote sensing big data analysis and bring additional strategic
 leadership in the fields of palaeo-climate, earthquake science and planetary geomorphology. We
 made new appointments in human geography to increase CESDA’s capabilities to deliver GIS and
 spatial data analytical approaches in human geography (Bhatti) and to develop new themes in
 cultural geography (Beech). In addition, Hunter was appointed to deliver teaching and research
 in marine and freshwater ecosystems to cover a member of staff who is developing research into
 paleo-landscapes on a three-year career break at the Flanders Marine Institute, Belgium. We also
 appointed 6 Visiting Professors to build new or strengthen existing international collaborations
 (Table 1).



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



      Table 1

       Martin Roy,             Alistair McIlgorm,                 Antonio Klein,
       UQAM,                   Wollongong,                        Santa Catarina,
       Canada                  Australia                          Brazil
       Joe Kelley,             Andrew Green,                      David Gregory,
       Maine,                  Kwazulu-Natal,                     National Museum of
       USA                     South Africa                       Denmark

 The RD and HoS use an academic workload model to allocate teaching, research and
 administrative duties in a transparent and equitable manner. This helps maximise the potential
 for staff to return high-quality research, whilst also delivering innovative teaching. in 2015 we
 restructured curricula to ensure staff have a minimum allocation of 40% research time across the
 academic year and where possible, concentrated teaching commitments into one semester to
 facilitate periods of dedicated research time. Staff are appraised annually to review research
 performance and receive guidance for their research plans. Additional research development
 opportunities are provided by UU’s RIGOUR (grants support), SOARING (outputs support), Impact
 Development Series (impact support) and Research Mentoring programme (See REF5a), which
 68% of our staff have participated in during this REF. All staff, whether full-time or part-time, have
 access to the School research budget and can take part in our School research leave scheme,
 which provides leave for one semester for each completed period of nine semesters´ service, to
 concentrate on a research plan approved by the RD and HoS. Staff can also apply to UU’s
 Sabbatical Leave scheme and external programs to facilitate longer spells of research leave.
 Arnscheidt was successful in the UU sabbatical scheme and in 2020 won a Fulbright Commission
 award to support a secondment in the USA.

 Staff can reduce their FTE contracts consistent with individual personal circumstances and can
 take career breaks (as three staff have done this cycle) without disadvantage. Staff returning
 from carers’ leave are provided with financial support from the School research budget and UU’s
 Returning Carers’ Scheme (REF5a) and teaching loads are carefully managed. To support the
 leadership potential of female staff, we encourage participation in the Aurora Programme. Two
 completed Aurora during this REF and progressed to leadership roles, Beech on the University
 Senate and McDowell as the lead for one of our research clusters. We also appointed a female
 HoS in 2019 (Benetti). We strengthened our research seminar series to ensure a gender balance
 among speakers and hold an annual International Women’s Day seminar delivered by a
 prominent female geographer or environmental scientist.

 We prioritise the support of ECRs (Beech, Bhatti, McNabb), who are assigned a personal
 mentor and submit a one-to-two-year research development plan. New appointments are
 allocated generous start-up funds to generate preliminary data for strategically identified research
 grant application(s) and networking. Start-up packages include the allocation of a PGR, co-
 supervised with a senior academic. Formal mentoring policies incorporate the preparation and
 review of first research grants, and papers are reviewed by expert panels with feedback at every
 stage.

 Rewarding staff is central to our staffing strategy and the RD and HoS work closely with staff to
 maximise their prospects of progression and reward within UUs promotional structures. We run
 workshops lead by UU’s People and Culture department and senior academics also provide
 mentorship. In this assessment period, seven staff were successful, including one promotion to
 professor (Dunlop) and six to senior lecturer (Arnscheidt, Benetti, Forsythe, McDowell,
 McGonigle, McKenzie).

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Training and supervision of PGRs
 A distinctive development at UU in this REF period has been the establishment of a single cross-
 University Doctoral College which oversees PGR degree provision, doctoral training and
 researcher development (REF5a). We have a dynamic PGR community with a dedicated space
 in our Doctoral Research Hub, an investment during this REF cycle to integrate our PGRs into a
 central facility at the heart of the School. PhD scholarships from the Department for the Economy
 (DfE) and UU Vice-Chancellor’s Research Scholarships (VCRS), are allocated by the Doctoral
 College as part of the UU annual PhD competition and on average we are awarded four each
 year. These awards provide full fees and subsistence to cover laboratory work, field research and
 conference attendance, and are equivalent to UKRI studentships. We increased our PhD
 allocation with successes in the annual UU interdisciplinary PhD award competition (three this
 cycle – Arnscheidt, Dunlop, Jordan) and prestigious externally funded PhD scholarships (11
 this cycle) from various sources including the EU Marie Curie ITN project GLANAM (one), the EU
 Interreg project CANN (one), Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK (one), Irish
 Agriculture and Food Development Authority, Walsh Fellowships (four), Irish Department of
 Agriculture, Food and the Marine (one) and DAERA (three). The number and diversity of awards
 ensures that we have high quality candidates and excellent completion rates of 32.29 FTE,
 which is an increase of 15% from REF2014 (28 FTE). The internationalisation of our PGR
 community is supported by these funders, along with the University’s VCRS competition, with
 39% of our completions this period being non-UK PGRs.

 All PGR students have a support committee with primary and secondary supervisors. For
 interdisciplinary projects, joint cross-school and external supervisory arrangements are common.
 We actively support interdisciplinary PhDs and are currently co-supervising innovative research
 projects with UU’s Schools of Computing, Biomedical Sciences, Psychology and Art and Design.
 All academic staff currently engage in PhD supervision and regular contact includes formal
 monthly meetings and annual progress monitoring, documented through UU’s online PhD
 manager system, as well as formal meetings with the RD and Postgraduate Tutor. The Doctoral
 College provides a Researcher Development Programme (RDP) and is an integral part of the
 doctoral programme. Our staff contribute training and seminars as part of the institution-wide
 programme. The RDP is informed and guided by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework
 (VRDF). School staff also deliver in-house specialised training specific to the requirements of our
 PGRs and they all undertake a Training Needs Analysis (TNA) at the beginning of their studies,
 which is reviewed annually in consultation with their supervisors. The TNA is structured around
 the VRDF and is used to develop a personal development plan which is mapped on to the RDP
 offer.

 PGRs are fully integrated into academic life, participating in and organising departmental
 seminars, workshops and social events through their PGR Society. They can develop teaching
 skills by completing a UU Advance HE-accredited postgraduate teaching award (with conferment
 of Associate Fellowship of Advance HE) and undertake paid teaching in laboratory and field
 classes on our degrees. All PGRs are encouraged to present research at key meetings and
 publish in peer-reviewed journals. We have a strong record of accomplishment of PGR
 engagement at the annual Doctoral College festival of research, a celebration of PhD research
 excellence across the institution (see REF5a). Two PGRs came first and runner up in the best
 oral presentation category in 2018 and 2019, and both won the university-level Three Minute
 Thesis (3MT®) competition. Both also represented the University at the UK national 3MT®,
 where one reached the semi-finals in 2018 and one reached the UK finals, finishing UK
 runner up and winner of the 2019 People’s Choice Award. Exemplar international conference
 awards include: Outstanding Student Presentation Award, Cryosphere, American Geophysical
 Union (AGU) Fall Meeting, 2016; best early career oral presentation at the Society for Applied
 Microbiology (SfAM) Conference, 2018; and the Guy Lortie award for the outstanding poster,
 Canadian Quaternary Association biennial meeting, 2015. All PGRs enhance their grant writing
 and research income track records by applying for grants with their supervisors. In this
 assessment, PGRs received over 40 awards from funding bodies and learned societies such as

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the British Society for Geomorphology, Quaternary Research Association, SfAM, Royal Irish
 Academy, NERC bursaries, NERC Cosmogenic Isotope Analysis Facility, and two Fulbright
 Commission scholarships.

 In the 2019 Advance HE Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) we achieved an
 overall satisfaction score of 83.6%, exceeding the national average score of 82.4% across
 all subject areas and 79% in the Geography and Archaeology category. These results reflect the
 vitality of our high-quality PGR environment and will provide a benchmark as we strive for
 continuous improvement over the next REF period.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Our total income in REF2021 is £6.5M with a recorded spend of over £5.6M. A key indicator of
 our success is the increased investment from prestigious funders. £4.98M (89%) of our spend
 comes from UKRI, Royal Society, British Academy and EU sources. This is an 11% increase in
 spend from the same sources in REF2014 (£4.49M). Our successes include 14 UKRI awards
 (five NERC, six AHRC, one BBSRC, one ESRC, one STFC), 9 EU awards and funding from major
 charities (British Academy/Leverhulme, National Trust, Arcadia). Our UKRI GCRF awards reflect
 our commitment to solving important societal challenges. We secured 3 in-kind NERC isotope
 facility awards (£29k, 2015-19, Dunlop and Benetti) and over €850k of competitive in-kind
 funding from the following national/international ship-time programmes:
    •   Six - Irish National Development Plan Ship-Time Awards (Benetti, Dunlop, McGonigle,
        Quinn, Westley, 2015-20, €784k,)
    •   Three - EUMarineRobots Awards (Arnscheidt, McGonigle, Quinn, 2020, €63k)
    •   One - EUROFLEETS2 Award for the PANTHER project (€104.5k) (Benetti, 2016–17,
        £6.7k)
 These supported interdisciplinary research at sea where we investigated paleoglaciation,
 paleoclimate, World War shipwrecks, seabed habitats, geology and geohazards in the
 Mediterranean, Celtic and Irish Seas and the Irish and Canadian Atlantic.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Our research infrastructure supports the delivery of innovative, internationally competitive
 research that is central to our vitality. Our facilities are continuously renewed by external grants
 and through targeted institutional funding to support our research strategy. In 2019, UU prioritised
 £176k of DfE Higher Education Research Capital (HERC) funds and an additional £157k of
 institutional funding to purchase a bespoke state-of-the-art inshore vessel to strategically support
 CESDA’s ambitions to conduct multidisciplinary science at sea. The new vessel has hydraulic
 gantry for launch and recovery of equipment, a RESON SeaBat 7125 multibeam echosounder
 and inspection class ROVs for high-resolution seabed mapping and hydrographic surveying in UK
 and Irish waters.

 In addition, we operate a suite of field equipment for high-resolution investigations of urban,
 terrestrial, freshwater and marine environments. Survey platforms include three differential GPS-
 enabled quad bikes, two mobile differential GPS units, a fleet of eight vehicles (including three
 4x4s) and two freshwater RVs. We have professional survey-grade quadcopter and fixed-wing
 drones mounted with various environmental sensors for high resolution, rapid remote-sensing
 surveys. We operate a high-definition terrestrial scanner and the only high-resolution underwater
 laser scanner in Ireland, funded by a £162k Irish Marine Institute Specialist Marine Research
 Equipment and Small Infrastructure grant. A £240k NERC-funded aeolian equipment suite
 includes 18 load cell sediment traps, 16 audio impact sensors and 24 ultrasonic anemometers.
 Our dedicated £300k coastal, marine and freshwater acoustic remote-sensing suite includes a

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 multi-frequency ground penetrating radar, echosounders, chirp and boomer seismic profilers and
 sidescan sonar.

 The School has purpose-built analytical chemistry, sediment analysis, benthic ecology, plant
 ecology and marine geophysics laboratories supported by four School technicians and 4 Faculty
 IT staff. Our water chemistry facilities include inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer
 (ICP-MS), ultraviolet-visible photometry, fluorescence spectrometry, dissolved organic carbon
 (DOC) analysis and ion chromatography. We have provision for microbiological analysis, and
 climate cabinets and chambers are available for temperature-controlled experiments. An
 instrumentation suite for high-resolution freshwater monitoring includes phosphorous and nitrate
 analysers, a total organic carbon/inorganic carbon analyser and multi-parameter water quality
 sondes. We also operate a Joint Research Equipment Initiative NERC-funded remote access
 sampler and sediment trap for high resolution water sampling in freshwater environments. Our
 microscope suite has research grade dissection microscopes with computer-aided image
 analysis and an inverted microscope for phytoplankton analysis. Sediment analysis facilities
 include refrigerated storage containing over 350m of deep and shallow water marine sediment
 cores for paleoenvironmental research, 100m of lake sediment cores and approximately two
 thousand preserved water samples from lakes across the globe. The sediment laboratory is used
 for core splitting/sampling and contains preparation equipment (ovens, shaking tables, infrared
 lamps, core splitter), a Malvern Mastersizer and a settling column. Our marine geophysics
 laboratory is equipped with hardware and software to process, analyse and integrate high-
 resolution bathymetry, backscatter, seismic and radar data.

 We continue to invest heavily in innovative computer facilities, which are essential for numerical
 modelling and geospatial analysis within CESDA. We have our own high-performance computing
 (HPC) cluster with 388 cores, which supports significant model-based analyses of earth surface,
 and planetary modelling of airflow and oceanographic processes and patterns. UU and QUB
 share a £2.1M EPSRC Kelvin-2 project for a HPC with 8000 CPU cores and 32 GPU nodes with
 a high performance 2 Petabyte of scratch storage, interconnected via a high-speed network that
 our staff can access to address some of society’s biggest challenges using big data spatial
 analytics. We license specialist software for geospatial analysis, including the ESRI ArcGIS,
 ERDAS Imagine, IVS Fledermaus, CARIS HIPS & SIPS and HIS Kingdom Suite

 We are members of the National Oceanography Centre, Association of Marine Science National
 Capability Beneficiaries with representation on the NERC Marine Facilities Advisory Board
 (McGonigle). We also actively engage with Ireland’s National Marine Equipment Pool through
 the Irish Marine Institute, to share access to marine research facilities and expertise.
 Collaborative research on antimicrobial resistance and the fate of chemicals in freshwater
 systems with colleagues at UU’s Centre for Molecular Biosciences provides access to world class
 laboratory facilities, including an X series ICP-MS, next-generation DNA sequencing, scanning
 electron microscopy and fluorescence microscopy facilities. Our collaboration with CalTech
 (Avouac), provides access to CalTech’s supercomputing facility and the Bruce Murray
 Laboratory for Planetary Visualisation. Our collaboration with Oregon State University (Clark)
 provide access to state-of-the-art stable isotope, elemental analysis and HLPC facilities, electron
 microprobe, ice core and Quaternary geochemistry, plasma spectrometry and Argon
 geochronology laboratories.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We have a vibrant global research outlook, collaborating with researchers at 140 institutions in 31
 countries, as well as with representatives and stakeholders in government organisations and
 industry. Our collaborations provide valuable opportunities for competitive grant submissions,
 interdisciplinary publications, for expertise exchange, and for PhD researchers to visit other labs
 and learn new techniques.

 Network grants were a strong feature of REF2021, that we used to contribute to the research
 base, economy and society through our impactful research projects. Our catchment science and

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 freshwater research, applied to sustainable water resources management for the benefit of
 nature and society, exemplifies this approach. As part of the €13.7M EU Interreg
 CatchmentCARE consortium Jordan, Arnscheidt, Douglas and McKenzie are developing
 novel chemical remediation techniques to manage nutrient enrichment problems in cross-border
 river basins in Ireland, that will contribute to EU obligations to deliver improved water quality. The
 primary focus of the €5.3M EU Interreg Source-to-Tap project is to improve water quality in two
 cross-border catchments that provide drinking water to six Irish border counties (Jordan). The
 €9.4M EU Interreg CANN biodiversity project will produce conservation action plans to improve
 the condition of protected bog and wetland habitats across Scotland and Ireland (Arnscheidt).
 The €6.4M EU Interreg MarPAMM consortium is developing innovative approaches and tools for
 monitoring and managing protected coastal and marine ecosystems in Ireland, NI and Western
 Scotland and the research will inform national environmental management policies (Jackson,
 Cooper and McGonigle).

 Other major consortium projects that had economic and societal benefits include the outcomes
 of applied research that was conducted with industrial partners in the €4.4m GLANAM consortium
 (Dunlop, Benetti). GLANAM had six university teams and four industrial partners that included
 Norway’s leading oil and gas production company Statoil and three smaller mineral exploration
 companies. Our industrial partners benefited from fundamental research to improve their
 understanding of how former ice sheets affected hydrocarbon reservoirs in the North Atlantic,
 Barents Sea and North Sea region. We also collaborated with them to improve their
 understanding of the potential of gas hydrates as an energy source and how their instability can
 influence submarine hazards and contribute to climate change. Dunlop was also part of a £2.3M
 NERC 10 partner consortium project: “Will climate change alter the landslide-tsunami risk to the
 UK?” (2012–16), which assessed the potential threat of this hazard to the UK.

 Our response to major international societal challenges is evidenced by the award of several
 GCRF grants. We are empowering East African communities through research in the £2.6M AHRC
 Rising-from-the-depths GCRF network, that is exploring how maritime heritage can be utilised by
 local communities for socio-economic development (Breen, Forsythe and McGonigle). Our
 interdisciplinary NERC-GCRF project REAR explored how public engagement, citizen science and
 mobile technology can increase earthquake resilience in the most vulnerable communities
 (Dunlop and McDowell). The £2M Arcadia Foundation MarEA project (Breen, Forsythe,
 Westley and Quinn) is comprehensively documenting the key threats to maritime heritage across
 the Middle East and North Africa that will inform mitigation strategies to ensure the sustainable
 preservation of important heritage locations.

 The Administrative Data Research Centre (ADRC) (2018–21) is a £905k ESRC collaborative
 interdisciplinary research partnership between UU, QUB and the NI Statistics and Research
 Agency where Moore is applying geo-spatial analysis to understand complex health issues. This
 includes examining hospital use, treatment and outcomes of people with mental Illness and life
 limiting conditions, the effects of variations in health care provision and social care services for
 people living with dementia, and how population density and poverty adversely affect health.

 McDowell’s research projects fostered important collaborations with the NI Government, public
 bodies and community groups to develop peace building initiatives that have empowered divided
 communities to use heritage sites as peace and conflict resolution spaces. In 2015-16 she was an
 Expert Advisor to Historic Royal Palaces on how to open the 100-acre NI Hillsborough Castle
 estate for public use.

 As a civic university, we encourage staff engagement with the public through TV and radio
 contributions (BBC, RTE), our School Twitter account and community events such as the NI
 Science Festival and school workshops. We support active participation in the wider academy and
 below we highlight our contributions to the research base, which are marks of recognition of the
 School being a centre of research excellence and an exemplary collaborative partner.



                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exemplar Editorial Boards: Clark: Editor, Journal of Climate (2012–15); Associate Editor
 (2017–present); Associate Editor, Atmosphere-Ocean (2012–17). Avouac: Editor in Chief, Earth
 and Planetary Sciences Letters; Co-Editor in Chief, Tectonophysics (2014–18); Jordan:
 Associate Editor, Environmental Science and Policy (2012–16) Guest Editor, AMBIO (2019–20).
 Dunlop: Associate Editor, Journal of Maps (2018–present). Benetti: Guest Editor, Geosciences
 Special Issue - Interacting Alongslope and Downslope Sedimentary Processes (2019);
 Geological Society of London’s Special Issue - Subaqueous Mass Movements and their
 Consequences (2020). McDowell: Guest Editor, Irish Political Studies (2016). Breen: Associate
 Editor, Journal of North Atlantic Studies (2014–present); Consulting Editor, International Journal
 of Historical Archaeology (2014–present). Forsythe: Guest Editor, IKUWA Special Edition
 Journal of Maritime Archaeology (2019). Jackson: Associate Editor, Journal of Coastal Research
 (2008–16); Invited Reviewer, Second Order Drafts (SOD) Working Group (WG) I contributions to
 the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report (AR6). Cooper: Advisory Board, Italian Journal of
 Engineering Geology and Environment; Guest Editor for GeoMarine Letters, Vol 38, Special
 Issue (2018); Journal of Coastal Research Special Issue 70 (2014); Invited Reviewer, SOD, WG
 II, contributions to the IPCC AR6.

 Exemplar Panel Memberships: McDowell: AHRC peer review college; reviewer for NERC and
 ESRC Brexit Fellowships, British Academy post-doctoral fellowships. Jackson and Jordan:
 members of the NERC peer review college. Jordan: served on two NERC panel C discovery
 science panels (2014, 2016) and on the India–UK water quality (Newton–Bhabha Fund) peer
 review panel in New Delhi (2016). Benetti: Vice-Chair (2013-present), EU-FP7 Marie-Curie
 IEF/IIF/IOF fellowship evaluation panels; H2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie individual fellowship
 evaluations; Expert Evaluator, EU-FP7 R&D programme “New and renewable sources of energy,
 energy efficiency & innovation”. Dunlop: Expert Evaluator, National Science Foundation (NSF),
 USA (2017–19); Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (2017).
 Cooper: Expert Evaluator for the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (2020).
 Panel member, Geology and Physical Geography, the Danish Agency for Science and Higher
 Education Independent Research Fund (2020). Expert Peer Reviewer for the following: National
 Research Foundation, South Africa (2014–20); Singapore Ministry of Education (2019); Italian
 Ministry of Education (2013–19); Joint Nature Conservation Committee (2018); International
 Union for Conservation of Nature (2017); UK Institute of Civil Engineers (2017).

 Exemplar National research committees; Avouac: President-elect of the Tectonophysics
 section, AGU (2020); Committee on Space Research (COSPAR) (2001–present). Dunlop:
 Geological Survey of NI Science Advisory Board (2019–present); Royal Irish Academy,
 Geographical Sciences Committee (2010–14). Benetti: Committee Member, Irish Quaternary
 Association (IQUA) (2016-present); member of UNESCO IGCP Project 585 E-Marshal (2015–
 20). Cooper: Climate NI Steering Group (2014–present); National Trust, Natural Environment
 Advisory Group, Coastal Specialist (2020–present); member of UNESCO IGCP Project 639 Sea-
 level change from minutes to Millennia (2016-2020). Jackson: NI Executive Coastal Forum
 steering group (2020–present). McGonigle: NERC Marine Facilities Advisory Board (2019–
 present); NOC Association of Marine Science National Capability Beneficiaries (2019–present).
 McKenzie: EU Energy Poverty Observatory (2014–present). Breen: Board of Directors of the
 Government of Ireland heritage research Discovery Programme (2016–19). Jordan: member of
 the DAERA Nutrients Action Programme Scientific Working Group (2020–present).

 Exemplar External appointments: Cooper: Honorary Research Professor, University of
 KwaZulu-Natal (2018–21); CNPQ Special Visiting Professor at Universidade Federal do Rio
 Grande do Sul and Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (2013–17). Jackson: Honorary
 Fellow University KwaZulu-Natal (2019–present). Benetti: Visiting Assistant Professor,
 University of Trinidad and Tobago (2016–17). Quinn: Adjunct Professor, Memorial University of
 Newfoundland (2009–17). McGonigle: Affiliate Faculty Researcher, Alaska Pacific University,
 USA (2017-present). Avouac: Technology Advisory Council of British Petroleum (2014–18).

 Exemplar Keynotes and Invited lectures: Dunlop: Invited talks, AGU, USA (2016); UKRI and
 Met Office Climate Resilience Programme, Belfast (2019). Jordan: Invited keynotes - 28th Annual

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fertiliser and Lime Research Centre International Workshop, New Zealand (2015); International
 Workshop on temporal high-resolution water quality monitoring and analysis, Germany (2014).
 Cooper: keynotes at IGCP 639 “Sea-level change from minutes to millennia” Conference, Oman
 (2016); British Council Newton Fund, Researcher Links Workshop, Brazil (2019) and Durban
 (2018). Jackson: keynote, Portuguese Conference on Coastal and Estuarine Morphodynamics,
 Portugal (2015); Littoral Geomorphology Conference, Spain (2015). Hunter: Invited talk, India-
 UK Water Centre workshop on Safe and Sustainable Technologies and Strategies for Integrated
 Freshwater Resource Management, India (2019). Forsythe: invited lecture, University of Notre
 Dame, USA (2018). Benetti: Invited lecture, Science Uncovered – A celebration of science for
 European Researchers’ Night, Ulster Museum, Belfast (2017); IQUA Annual Symposium, Dublin
 (2015). McKenzie: Invited talk, Energy Justice and Energy Poverty Conference, Centre for the
 Study of Risk & Inequality QUB, Belfast (2019).

 Exemplar Conference Organising Committees: Dunlop, Benetti: Local Organising
 Committee, 20th Congress of the International Union for Quaternary Research (INQUA) Dublin
 (2019); Glaciated North Atlantic Margins 4th Annual Workshop, UU (2016). Benetti: Committee
 for International Symposium on Subaqueous Mass Movements and Their Consequences, Dublin
 (2020); Organiser, IQUA Spring Meeting, UU (2016). Jackson: Scientific Committees for
 International Conference on Coastal Dynamics, Denmark (2018); International Conference on
 Aeolian Research, Bordeaux (2018). Cooper: Scientific Committees for International Coastal
 Symposium, Spain (2020); International Conference, Marine Navigation and Safety of Sea
 Transportation, Poland (2019); International Coastal Symposium, South Africa (2014); Coasts in
 Crisis: Sea Level Rise and Inundation and the Drivers for Adaptation, AGU, Ocean sciences
 Meeting, USA (2016); Session VI. Tools & Surveys, Littoral, France (2016). Hunter: Session
 Chair, Drinking Water Availability and Quality, India-UK Water Centre Workshop on Safe and
 Sustainable Technologies and Strategies for Integrated Freshwater Resource Management
 (2019). Forsythe: Chair of International Congress on the Anthropology of Salt (2015, 2018).
 Jordan: Scientific Committee, LuWQ2019, Denmark (2019).

 Awards: Clark: Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (2016);
 Fellowship, Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard University (2016). Avouac: Wolfson
 Merit Award of the Royal Society, UK (2014), Editors’ Citation for Excellence in Refereeing,
 Geophysical Research Letters (2015). Arnscheidt: Fulbright All-Disciplines Scholar Award
 (2020). UUs Senior Distinguished Research Award (Jordan 2018).




                                                                                         Page 15
