Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Cardiff Metropolitan University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA23 - Education
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Summary
 Having not submitted to REF2014, we developed a series of strategies to create a strong,
 sustainable research environment ahead of this submission. We invested £1.4 million to
 support research during the cycle and, as a result, research volume measured by outputs in the
 institutional repository has increased by 133%, while downloads of our research increased by
 282%. Our funding capture increased 20-fold, we increased the number of our staff with
 doctorates by 55%, and independently research-engaged staff 1 by 40%.

 Context
 The Cardiff School of Education and Social Policy (henceforth the ‘School’) has been recognised
 for its pedagogic excellence and proactive engagement with the development of education since
 1950. We specialise in education research and practice, the humanities, and social policy. Whilst
 most individuals included in this submission are from the School, three others, with closely
 aligned research are included: Aldous 2 (Cardiff School of Sport and Health Sciences; CSSHS),
 Massoud (Cardiff School of Management; CSM), and Chew (Cardiff School of Technologies;
 CST).

 Research and impact strategy
 Cardiff Met did not make a submission to the REF2014 Education UoA, returning 16 staff in this
 cycle therefore evidences significant progress in our development of a strong and sustainable
 research environment. We achieved this through a systematic increase in research volume,
 quality, impact, and capacity by: a) developing infrastructure, b) investing in research, c)
 developing research with impact, d) developing collaborative research, and e) developing an
 open-access, integrity-based, research culture.


 a)   Developing infrastructure
 To develop the School’s research culture, we cohered strands of research interests within seven
 research groups:

   1) Initial Teacher Education (ITE) led by Bryant, with Davis, Kneen, and Packer, the
      group’s research focuses on applied pedagogic theory underpinning teacher education,
      and recently explored the impact of Covid-19 on assessment in schools.

   2) Technology in Education led by Beauchamp, with Abbinett, Adams, Chew, and
      Kneen, in collaboration with CST, and Durham and Cambridge Universities, focuses on
      information and communication technology research in teaching scenarios at all ages.

   3) Outdoor Learning and Early Years Education led by Haughton, with Adams and
      Hodgkin, is a multi-disciplinary group that explores how outdoor spaces can be used to
      develop and enhance learning, especially in early-years settings.

   4) Physical-Health Education for Lifelong Learning (PHELL) led by Aldous, with Bryant
      and Hodgkin, is an interdisciplinary group that investigates wellbeing across several
      physical-health education settings with collaborators at University College Cork, Canberra
      and Sue Griffith Universities, Australia, and the University of Edinburgh.


1 As opposed to staff with a ‘Significant Responsibility for Research’, defined in our Code of Practice as those with 20%+

of their workload devoted to research.
2 Where a staff member is named and being returned, their family name is presented in bold. Other names cited are

colleagues who are part of the research environment, but whose research is not being returned to this UoA.

                                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  5) Additional Learning Needs (ALN) led by Ellis, with Abbinett and Haughton, who work
     closely with the Centre for Applied Research in Inclusive Arts and Design (CARIAD), a
     pan-University research centre investigating effective strategies to support learners with a
     wide range of ALN.

  6) Music Education led by Beauchamp, with Adams and John, focusses on children’s
     phenomenological experiences by exploring music in formal and informal settings within
     primary and secondary schools.

  7) English Literature and Creative Writing led by North, with English, and Taylor-Collins,
     the group has a strong emphasis on interdisciplinarity, including health and science
     education, digital cultures, and the history and continued practice of higher education.

 Each research group is led by a senior researcher and includes early-career researchers (ECRs)
 and postgraduate research students (PGRs). We leverage their experience mix to facilitate
 capacity-building in a safe and supportive environment. The effectiveness of this strategy is
 evidenced by our increased research output volume from 63 in the previous REF cycle to 147,
 and a 1900% increase in grant capture this cycle.

 We employ ‘critical friendship’ to develop research quality, for example, through our research
 seminar series, which allows staff and PGRs to critically discuss research methods, project
 development, and dissemination. Where appropriate, we use seminars as a ‘staging-post’ of
 research degree progress, providing PGRs with an opportunity to present termly updates and,
 near completion, to rehearse important elements of their work in preparation for the viva-voce
 defence. Seminars are a forum to develop research ideas and refine presentations before
 attending conferences. We leverage them to catalyse an improvement in our research degree
 completion rate, increase peer-reviewed journal output, and increase publication quality. Since
 2014, we have held 196 seminars, with at least one each year focused on the work of an invited
 external speaker.

 b)    Investing in research
 Since REF2014 we have strategically invested in our researchers’ development to increase the
 number of staff with doctorates – we are currently supporting 18 (21%) of our academics. Tuition
 fees are waived and a day a week in additional hours for doctoral research is allocated in staff
 workload (271 hours). As a result, seven colleagues completed their doctorates. Together with
 a revised recruitment policy, we have increased the number of our staff with doctorates from 22
 to 34 during the census period, providing solid foundations from which to grow both research
 and supervision capacity in the next cycle. Progress is also evidenced by the number of
 independently research-engaged staff in the School, which increased by 40% between 2014 and
 2020. Research expertise also significantly expanded beyond our 2014 focus on early-years and
 post-compulsory education. Our portfolio now includes effective pedagogic theory and practice,
 English literature and creative writing, and social policy.

 c)    Developing research with impact
 Our impact case studies are testimony to the success of our strategy to nurture an impactful
 research culture. For example, Aldous and Bryant’s research underpinned the Welsh
 Government’s implementation of the New Curriculum for Wales (NCfW) which will affect 22,000
 teachers and 468,383 pupils. The work enabled the upskilling of teachers to become change
 managing creative enquirers in 33 schools, impacting the professional practice of 1,045 staff
 and the learning experiences of 14,900 pupils. Its success led to more than 300 additional
 schools embarking on the programme designed to facilitate the NCfW. Meanwhile, Beauchamp
 and Abbinett’s Interactive Technologies in Language Teaching project (ITiLT), impacted the
 communicative language teaching and pedagogic practices of over 9,300 educators, benefitting
 ~50,000 pupils and students across Europe and Eurasia. We achieved these impacts by using
 our growing research standing to harness strong collaborations, networks, and partnerships with
 Welsh Government, several UK and European Universities, and with schools across Wales
 with which we have established strong working relationships and trust.

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 d)    Developing collaborative research
 Our capacity-building strategy has included a targeted drive to exploit our excellence in ITE
 provision and closeness to the education practitioner-base to develop collaborative research
 links with world class stakeholders. These have secured the School a key role in shaping
 education policy and impacting practice. For example, in 2019 we established the Cardiff ITE
 Partnership with Cardiff University and University of Oxford. Our role is to research
 pedagogic practice, ensuring that ITE mentors in our 160 PGCE placement schools provide
 student teachers, with support fully informed by research. We work closely with placement
 school ‘Research Champions’, who assist our student teachers to undertake research during
 placements. A Research Advisory Board, with equal institutional representation, plans research
 and develops bids, including two successful bids with Cardiff University to the Welsh
 Government’s Research Fund (total: £54,650). Another example of our collaborative strategy is
 Beauchamp’s inclusion in Cambridge University’s Cambridge Educational Dialogue Research
 Group, and Bryant and Davis’s involvement with the Welsh Government’s National Strategy for
 Educational Research and Enquiry, a capacity and quality building initiative focused on
 academic research and professional enquiry.

 e)     Developing an integrity-based open-access research culture
 Building an open-access culture with integrity has been another critical facet of our drive to
 develop an excellent research environment. Staff are supported to publish in open-access
 journals wherever appropriate and receive training in GDPR and research ethics. They are
 encouraged to produce data management plans, like those required by UKRI, to inform them of
 their responsibilities regarding the management and sharing of data. All research outputs are
 deposited in the University’s DSpace open-access repository immediately after acceptance. This
 has improved dissemination of research findings, best practice, and knowledge data sets
 (148,311 downloads during the census period, versus 38,789 in 2014). Furthermore, since 2018,
 staff have used FigShare (~£25,000 annually) which supports the University’s drive towards a
 more open research environment, that goes beyond current REF requirements. The
 development of a research integrity culture is headed by the School’s Research Ethics
 Committee, which reports to the University’s Ethics Committee.

 Future strategy
 Having established the research capacity, volume, quality, and impact to return to REF2021, our
 focus in the next cycle will be to consolidate progress by: a) developing our researchers, b)
 enhancing our research volume, quality, and impact, c) developing interdisciplinarity, and d)
 improving the diversity of our researchers and research leads.

 a)    Developing our researchers
 From 2021/22 we will expand our scheme allocating workload time for researchers at all career
 stages. Time allocated to research will be linked to annual performance goals focussed on the
 development of high-quality research with targets appropriate to staff career stage. We will
 supplement Cardiff Met’s ECR Forum and Action Learning Sets by using our Professors,
 Readers, and senior researchers to mentor ECRs and emerging researchers, thereby providing
 a conduit for continued growth towards and beyond REF2028.

 b)     Enhancing research volume, quality, and impact
 We will develop a School mentorship programme targeting a significant uplift in the overall
 quality of research outputs, impact, and grant capture during the next REF cycle. We will also
 support our researchers to access the University’s new ‘Impact-Builder’ seed fund to develop
 impactful research. Furthermore, we will build on strengths in applied research grant capture
 developed during this cycle to leverage funding from ‘cherished sources’ such as the European
 Commission, and ESRC. Lastly, we will use the critical mass of researchers developed during
 this REF period to increase our PGR cohort, and thereby our research output volume,
 particularly by bringing the 18 staff who we are supporting to gain doctorates into supervisory
 teams.


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c)     Developing interdisciplinarity
 Our key route to developing interdisciplinarity will be through Cardiff Met’s Global Academies
 (GAs) – a major component of the University’s research strategy, GAs are collaborative,
 interdisciplinary endeavours bringing together strengths across research, innovation, and
 teaching to address global challenges around Health and Human Performance, Human Centred
 Design, and Food Science, Safety and Security. We have already engaged with the nascent
 Health & Human Performance GA through PHELL, and with our two Readers as workshop leads
 for the Food Science, Safety and Security (Casaliggi) and the Human Centred Design (North)
 GAs. Moreover, in July 2020, the decision was taken to create a fourth GA – Resilient People
 and Places – which will build on the research of Aldous, Beauchamp, Bryant, Davis, and
 Haughton.

 d)    Improving diversity
 In 2014 most of the School’s senior leaders were men; most are now women, including the Dean
 and REF Coordinator. We will build from this base in the next cycle, submitting a Departmental
 Athena-SWAN Bronze application early in 2021 and supporting more women to reach senior
 research roles. We will also ensure that our researchers reflect the racial diversity of society in
 the coming REF period by using the expertise and drive of key staff. For example, both
 Haughton and Davis are part of the race equality stake-holders group which will deliver on the
 University’s commitment to sign the Race Equality Charter early in the REF2028 cycle.
 Haughton is also a member of the BAME Communities Working Group that contributes to the
 development of Welsh Government’s NCfW.

 2. People

 Summary
 We have invested £1.4 million this REF cycle to build a vibrant, diverse, and inclusive research
 environment. We supported 30 staff to enrol for doctoral study, doubled the number of
 researchers engaged in PGR supervision (14 to 28), and achieved 22 research degree
 completions compared to 14 in the last period. All but one of the School’s Directorate are
 women, half of returned staff are ECRs, six are emerging researchers, 69% are female, 19%
 are BAME, 6% are disabled, and 6% are non-heterosexual.

 Staff support
 We engage with all REF-eligible staff, encouraging them to discuss their plans regularly with the
 Associate Dean for Research (ADR), highlighting any barriers to, or opportunities for research
 engagement. We use a combination of targeted recruitment and sustained investment in staff
 development to increase the number of our staff with doctorates. As a result, we now have 34
 doctorally qualified staff, compared to 22 in 2014 – a 55% increase. We also supported 30
 staff to undertake doctorates in the cycle, of whom 18 are still enrolled. This support requires
 considerable commitment: Fees of £3,000 per annum are waived and each staff PGR is
 allocated 271 hours workload annually. This equates to an annual investment of ~£173,000 3 or
 ~£935,700 across the census period. Staff benefit from the School’s longstanding connections
 with Wales’s educational policy makers and end-users. For example, we have 160 partner
 schools, and Egan was recently seconded to Welsh Government to develop a National
 Strategy for Education Research.

 We added five new Professors and Readers in the cycle through targeted recruitment (Davies,
 Egan 4) and internal promotion (Casaliggi, Cooper 5, North). All REF eligible staff have a
 minimum 171 hours per annum for research, innovation, and scholarly activity, while those
 with a significant responsibility for research receive at least one day a week. To encourage
 impactful research, an institutional Rewards and Incentives scheme returns 20% of income to


3 Calculated using the bottom of the Lecturer scale point 36, an hourly rate of £20.90.
4 Egan is an Emeritus Professor, research active, contracted to us and part of our research environment, but not REF

eligible.
5 Casaliggi has been submitted in UoA32 and Cooper in UoA24.


                                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emerging researchers; 15% to active researchers; and 10% to Professors. This revenue is ring-
 fenced for the staff who generated it, to spend supporting further research activity.

 We expended £101,332 to underpin research staff development, including supporting
 conference attendance. Additional support for research includes the Research Café – an
 informal, School-wide sharing of ideas on topics such as interdisciplinarity, collaborative working,
 and research ethics; our research seminar series; and research group meetings. Staff are
 also supported in other ways: Six of our researchers attended the award-winning Welsh
 Crucible – a competitive national development programme for future research leaders which in
 2019 saw 120 applications for 30 places.

 Systematic internal and external rating of research outputs against REF criteria are employed
 both as performance monitoring measures and researcher development. All authors self-rate
 their outputs, and a School REF panel calibrates research quality. Three external Professors
 conduct independent ratings, and we provide our researchers with both REF panel and external
 feedback. This broadens colleagues’ understanding of research quality, and combined with our
 mentoring and support mechanisms, ultimately empowers them to improve the quality of their
 research outputs. We use the University’s Performance & Development Review scheme to
 agree and monitor appropriate staff development and research targets. This ensures
 researchers are supported to optimise their workload allocation in line with their career ambitions
 and our strategic objectives.

 Equality, inclusivity and diversity (EI&D)
 We always take EI&D seriously and the statistics of our research environment evidences this.
 The majority (82%) of our Category A eligible staff are on permanent contracts. It is School
 policy to move those on fixed-term contracts to permanent employment wherever possible. Staff
 on fractional appointments are afforded the same career pathway opportunities as those on full-
 time contracts. For example, our REF Coordinator was appointed while on a 0.8 FTE contract,
 and her maternity cover was appointed while on a 0.6 FTE contract.

 EI&D is a standing agenda item for all School committees and an integral part of all our R&I
 decision making. For example, McCarthy-Cotter was appointed while on maternity leave with
 several months leave remaining. Internal research funding decisions are monitored for bias. In
 the period, 59% of all funding awards went to women, 15% to BAME, and 31% to LBGTQ+ staff.
 Special equipment is available on request to staff and PGRs with protected characteristics such
 as a disability.

 We take wellbeing seriously, with a PV-C specifically responsible for institutional wellbeing
 initiatives. Regular staff wellbeing surveys are undertaken, with issues highlighted subject to
 compulsory School action plans. The School has one all-staff meeting a term – to which PGRs
 are invited – devoted to discussing wellbeing, including the sharing of issues and coping
 strategies. An institutional PGR wellbeing project promotes relevant internal courses, provides
 resources focussed on stress and coping mechanisms, as well as resources for supervisors.
 The project has also established close links with Student Services to ensure all PGRs receive
 appropriate support, including counselling.

 Staff and PGRs returning from extended periods of parental leave, ill-health or who are
 managing long-term illness or caring responsibilities, have access to a suite of support policies
 including: flexible working; the ability to apply for a temporary or permanent switch to part-time
 working; a phased return to work with access to Occupational Health advice and assessment;
 and counselling. Staff on parental or adoption leave are entitled to paid ‘Keeping in Touch’ days
 to maintain contact and working relationships – an option that has proven very popular.

 Our commitment to equality of career progression is a central tenet of our strategy to increase
 research volume, quality, impact, and supervisory capacity. All School staff with REF-related
 responsibility, and all research leaders, have undergone compulsory unconscious bias training.
 The institutional Code of Practice was subject to consultation with all academic staff, UCU,

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University Equality & Diversity Delivery Group, Women’s Network, LGBTQ+ Network,
 Disability/Accessibility Network, and BAME Network. A full Equality Impact Assessment found
 that no change was required, and this is borne out by the balance of our submission. The
 following figures present the REF eligible pool percentage first, with the REF returned
 percentage in brackets and bold: women = 72% (69%); men = 28% (31%); BAME = 6% (19%);
 disabled = 3% (6%); and non-heterosexual = 8% (6%). The number of female research leads
 has more than doubled from four in the last REF cycle to 9 in 2020. We have been less
 successful in promoting women to our Professoriate, so we supported 12 staff in their career
 aspirations through the University’s Women to Professor scheme. Launched in 2018 by the PV-
 C R&I, Institutional Athena SWAN SAT Chair, and University Director of Research, these
 workshops make routes for promotion explicit, use peer-to-peer support, mentoring, and an
 Action Learning Set model to help attendees reach their goals. Both our Readers (Casaliggi,
 North) progressed through it during this cycle, and two others have Readership applications in
 development, which will provide a healthy promotion conduit to Professorship in the next REF
 cycle.

 School staff are leaders in developing an equality-based research environment. For example,
 Stevens-Wood Chairs the University’s Disabled Staff Network, and Davis chairs the BAME
 Educators Wales Network, of which Haughton is Vice-Chair. North is an active contributor to
 the institutional LGBTQ+ Network and was instrumental in changing the University’s
 nomenclature surrounding parental and adoption leave. Haughton Chairs the Black History
 Wales 365 Management Committee and was invited to contribute to a Welsh Government
 working group to improve the teaching of themes relating to BAME community experiences
 across all parts of the school curriculum. Lastly, both Haughton and Davis are part of the race
 equality stake-holders group which will deliver on the University’s commitment to sign the Race
 Equality Charter by 2024.

 All School committee meetings are scheduled between 10am and 3pm (core hours) and
 advertised well in advance to allow staff to plan. During the census period, 16 staff (13 women
 and 3 men) took parental/adoption leave, including two ECRs (Abbinett, Tyrie), an emerging
 researcher (English), and two Readers (Casaliggi, North), and 16 women accessed the Flexible
 Working Scheme.

 Staff training as PGR Supervisors, and Directors of Studies
 Doctorally qualified staff are eligible, upon application, for inclusion on Cardiff Met’s approved
 PGR Supervisors list and, when they meet the criteria, as Directors of Studies. In addition to a
 University induction programme, staff embarking on PGR supervision for the first time must
 complete a bespoke, School-based training and support induction programme, led by the
 School’s Graduate Studies Coordinator (GSC).

 A major strategic focus of this REF cycle has been to systematically address supervisory
 capacity. As a result, we have 28 staff engaged in PGR supervision, up from 14 in 2014. To
 increase capacity, we:

  i) added 19 new PGR supervisors;

  ii) engaged 10 supervisors from CSSHS, 4 from Cardiff School of Art & Design (CSAD), and
      10 from other units or outside Cardiff Met, to benefit the interdisciplinarity, increased breadth
      of experience, and subject expertise;

  iii) developed the supervisory skillsets of ECRs and emerging researchers by pairing them with
       senior researchers, simultaneously supporting new supervisors, maximising current
       supervisory capacity, and increasing future capacity;

  iv) introduced a new supervisory role – ‘Supervisory Team Coordinator’ – an experienced
      supervisor who mentors supervisory teams which have subject expertise, but not
      supervisory experience; and

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  v) invested in staff doctoral studies, with a view to ensuring that the 18 staff currently enrolled
     become supervisors in the next REF cycle.

 Postgraduate Research Students: Recruitment and Support
 PGRs are at the core of our research-facing activities and integral to our research culture. Our
 vibrant and inclusive PGR community includes nationals from China, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and
 India. As of July 2020, there were 44 PGRs enrolled (26 women, 18 men; 7 BAME; 8 FT, 36 PT;
 5 MPhil/PhD, 22 PhD and 17 EdD). Both PhD and EdD programmes enable recruitment of
 highly motivated students from applied backgrounds with potential to be excellent doctoral
 candidates. Our EdD includes a formal programme of research training and practice before
 students embark on independent research. Educational partners sponsor 3 EdDs (total:
 £45,000) and 2 PhDs are supported by competitively won Knowledge Economy Skills
 Scholarships (total: £106,000). The success of our growth strategy is evidenced by the 22
 successful research degree completions achieved this cycle (see below) in comparison to the
 previous REF period (14).

                       2013/14     2014/15    2015/16    2016/17    2017/18    2018/19    2019/20


    PhDs                   3          4          2           4          2          0          4

    EdDs                   1          1          0           0          0          0          1

    Total                  4          5          2           4          2          0          5

 The School’s GSC (Cooper) is responsible for the operational management, and sound research
 governance of all research degree delivery. An EdD Coordinator (Davis) is responsible to the
 GSC for the day-to-day management of that cohort. The School’s Research Degrees Sub-
 committee oversees admissions, quality assurance governance, and regulatory matters relating
 to doctoral programmes. Its Chair, our GSC, represents the views of research supervisors and
 PGRs at the University’s Research Degrees Committee.

 A robust application and interview process identifies candidates best able to complete a
 research degree and generate quality research outputs. Demand outstrips supply, a reason why
 increased supervisory capacity is a priority for the next REF cycle. Capacity issues
 notwithstanding, our alignment of student research interests to staff expertise is evidenced by
 the results of the 2020 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey which found that 100% of our
 PGRs ‘agreed’ that their supervisors had the skills and subject knowledge to support their
 research (PRES institutional average: 87%).

 All PGRs complete a centrally organised induction programme. For MPhils, MPhil/PhDs, and
 PhDs, this is a two-day programme held tri-annually in the first few weeks after enrolment, while
 for EdDs, induction is a three-day programme, delivered biannually just after enrolment, and
 forms part of their first module. We use the PGRs’ Research Training Review, which forms part
 of induction, and the Annual Progress Report (APR), to assess individual training needs. Our
 PGRs can also join undergraduate and Masters’ modules to enhance their subject-specific
 knowledge.

 Full-time PGRs are expected to submit their formal Research Degree Proposal (RDP) to the
 School’s Research Degrees Sub-committee within one year of registration (two years part-time).
 Ethics applications for data collection can only be considered once the RDP has been approved
 and ratified by the University’s Research Degrees Committee. PGRs without research-focused
 Master’s qualifications are enrolled as MPhil/PhDs, transferring to the PhD programme following
 submission of an extended literature review and detailed plan for developing the work to Level-8.
 They present and defend this work at a Transfer Interview in the form of a ‘mini-viva’ with their
 supervisory team and an independent assessor. PGRs with a relevant Master’s degree can

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enrol directly on a PhD, but we encourage them to go through the MPhil/PhD transfer process
 for its developmental value. APRs are monitored by both School and University Research
 Degrees Committees to keep students on track. Lastly, completing students undertake a ‘mock-
 viva’ before their formal viva-voce defence.

 All full-time and some part-time students have workspaces in ‘Research House’ which has fully
 equipped workstations and kitchen facilities. The GSC’s office is in the building, facilitating
 readily accessible formal and informal pastoral support. Research House is shared with CSSHS
 PGRs, meaning the environment facilitates interdisciplinarity and the cross-fertilisation of ideas.
 Another critical facet of our PGR support infrastructure is Cardiff Met’s Doctoral Academy – a
 central online hub for PGR activities providing regular updates, guidance, training, and webinars.

 We value the student voice, and PGRs are represented on the School’s Research Degrees Sub-
 committee, Research Ethics Committee, and R&I Committee, as well as the University’s
 equivalent committees. We encourage our PGRs to attend Cardiff Met’s PGR Skills Week – an
 annual series of interactive upskilling workshops. Our PGRs attend the annual Cardiff Met PGR
 Poster Presentation Day, where they present their research, interact with doctoral students from
 across the University, and network in a supportive environment that further facilitates cross-
 fertilisation of ideas. Senior University researchers also present at the Poster Day, providing
 additional research training opportunities.

 PGRs attend research group meetings, the Research Café, public Professorial inaugural
 lectures, professional body seminars, and visiting lecturer events across Cardiff Met. These
 opportunities facilitate additional networking and frameworks for developing research skills.
 Finally, PGRs can make requests for allowances for travel, conference attendance, transcription,
 consumables, training, and additional financial support, for consideration by the School’s
 Research Degrees Sub-committee.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Summary
 Our research income growth during the current census period epitomises the success of our
 capacity-building strategy. Our HESA-defined research income increased to £645,481 – a
 twentyfold increase on the previous period and includes major Welsh Government
 (£364,904) and Erasmus+ funding (£188,210). We also leveraged our established position at
 the intersection between education research and praxis to capture £490,217 in other grants,
 including two European-funded PhD studentships (£106,000) bringing our total R&I income to
 £1,135,698. We have also enhanced our research infrastructure by external collaborations with
 world-leading institutions, including Harvard Medical School, University of Oxford, and
 University of Cambridge.

 Income
  Our competitive R&I funding successes evidence our growing research profile and esteem.
  Altogether, we attracted £1,135,698 of R&I funding during the census period, from sources
  including the Welsh Government (£494,908) and the European Union (Erasmus+, £232,240),
  combined with a range of other competitive external R&I funding totalling £245,856. An
  additional £56,694 in research-related innovation charitable funding included £30,000 from the
  Waterloo Foundation.

 Welsh Government funding includes: i) an Expressive Arts Professional Learning Research and
 Development award (£236,000: Bryant, Egan, Diffey), ii) £164,310 from the Higher Education
 Funding Council for Wales’s (HEFCW) Civic Mission and Community Engagement fund
 (Adams, Young, Fenn), iii) £43,000 for an evaluation of support staff employed in schools
 (Beauchamp), iv) £35,000 for a collaboration with Cardiff University evaluating school
 assessments adapted for Covid-19 (Bryant), and v) a total £16,598 for scoping the use, and
 barriers to use, of digital technologies to support Modern Foreign Language teachers


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Beauchamp), and piloting the Successful Futures project (Kneen). All these projects have the
 potential for significant impact on ITE provision and pedagogic practice in Wales and beyond.

 Competitive external research funding totalling £245,856 was also secured from organisations
 that span other national and international education and sport bodies. Funding bodies
 include: Sport Wales; the Institute of Science and Technology Foundation (Singapore); the
 Education Advisory Service; Nuffield Administrative Justice; Welsh Crucible; Tomorrow’s
 Generation Schools; the UK Physical Literacy Association; and the National Academy for
 Educational Leadership (Wales). In some instances, this funding has been a catalyst for the
 expansion of existing collaborative research activity and has provided the basis for additional
 external grant capture. For example, Hodgkin and Diffey received £3,000 from Sport Wales to
 evaluate ways of improving student teachers’ confidence and motivation to teach PE and
 increase pupils’ Physical Literacy. This project was a catalyst for our collaboration with the
 Universities of Wales Trinity St David, Bangor, and South Wales in the Physical Literacy
 Programme for Schools project (£193,256) to support the development of Physical Literacy
 across Wales.

 Our European research income was captured from Erasmus+ for the Interactive Technology in
 Language Teaching (ITiLT) project, the Sharing Open Educational Practices Using
 Technology for Higher Education (SHOUT4HE) project, the Future Teaching (FUTE) project,
 and the Whole School Approach Promoting Health Enhancing Physical Activity (HEPA) project
 (total: £232, 240). We also secured two PhD studentships (total: £106,000) through the
 European Social Fund’s Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships 2 (KESS2) programme.
 KESS2 is a competitive pan-Wales scheme that links companies and organisations with
 academic expertise in Universities to undertake collaborative research projects that benefit the
 community through the joint funding of PhD candidates. The first scholarship, in collaboration
 with Tomorrow’s Generation, a Cardiff-based centre for young people with dyslexia, aims to
 evaluate the effectiveness of current provision, as a basis for strategies to impact pupils with
 dyslexia. The second, partnered with AL Direct, provides adapted learning packages for
 students with Behavioural Emotional and Social Difficulties (BESD). The project will offer
 strategies that positively impact educational outcomes for BESD learners. Both projects form the
 basis of highly impactful programmes of research, and evidence how the School’s research and
 knowledge transfer activities impact communities of practice, the economy, and society.

 Research infrastructure
 Both the University’s and School’s research infrastructures have been integral to realising our
 strategic priorities. At University level, R&I activities are coordinated by Research and
 Innovation Services (RIS), led by the PV-C for R&I. RIS works closely with the School to support
 research and knowledge exchange activities with key stakeholders and end-users. The
 University’s R&I Committee (a sub-committee of Academic Board) is responsible for overseeing
 all R&I activities including policy, strategy, facilities, operations, and performance, and the
 University’s Research Degrees Committee reports to it. The University’s Ethics Committee
 (another sub-committee of Academic Board) has ultimate responsibility for the maintenance and
 monitoring of ethics governance at University level and helps ensure research quality and
 integrity. The School R&I Committee is responsible for overseeing all School R&I related
 activities, including policy, strategy, facilities, operations, and performance. All School research
 committees (R&I, Research Degrees and Ethics) report directly to their respective University-
 level committee.

 Responsibility for leading and fostering research within the School lies with the ADR who, in
 conjunction with the School’s Management and Planning Team, is responsible for
 operationalising the School’s strategic research priorities. The GSC and REF Coordinator work
 closely with the ADR to coordinate R&I strategy and governance, and their implementation.
 School strategy is operationalised through the research group leads, individual staff performance
 reviews, and annual monitoring through the setting and reviewing of key R&I performance
 indicators known as ‘Measures of Success’.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our R&I activities are predominantly undertaken within research groups, structured around
 particular areas of research or practice. Some groups are interdisciplinary in nature and include
 staff from other Cardiff Met Schools and Universities. For example, our staff collaborate closely
 with colleagues in CSSHS on the Physical Literacy Programme for Schools project, which
 supports the development of Physical Literacy across Wales. The groups support researchers,
 particularly ECRs, in developing their research and applying for funding. Ongoing research is
 disseminated through the research seminar series, which is open to all staff and PGRs, and
 provides a forum for the development and formation of research ideas, presentation of research
 findings, and formulation of funding project proposals.

 R&I activity is coordinated by a R&I Support Manager who oversees the work of two additional
 administrators with principal responsibilities for finance/budgets, and ethics/REF, respectively.
 The team also provides several additional services to both research staff and PGR students,
 supporting ethics approvals, research funding, and research governance processes.

 Research facilities and environment
 Since 2014, the School’s research environment and facilities have been strategically enhanced
 through capital investment and expenditure to ensure we continue to provide appropriately
 equipped facilities to support our research activity. During the census period, £196,000 was
 invested in the enhancement of the physical infrastructure, we also provided £140,000 for
 upgrading existing IT resources and equipment, and we purchased £35,920 worth of specialist
 IT hardware and software specifically to support our research provision. We also maintain
 several archives, including: The Welsh Collection – works related to Wales in general, but
 specifically including Welsh language books and materials related to teaching in Wales, and
 the Fanthorpe Collection – a collection of Lionel Fanthorpe’s books, and a diary/ledger
 containing his ideas.

 Our research infrastructure is significantly enhanced by internal and external collaboration. For
 example, some of our Additional Learning Needs researchers benefit from cross-school
 collaborations with colleagues in CSAD, through their involvement in the Centre for Applied
 Research in Inclusive Art and Design (CARIAD), which seeks to improve lives and address
 some of the most significant challenges facing society. During the period CARIAD attracted 12
 research students, won over £684,000 in grants from the AHRC, Raspberry Pi Foundation,
 and Welsh Government’s Business Innovation team, and launched a spin-out company. These
 collaborations also benefit from the use of the FabLab (£130,000), a purpose-built 169m2 open-
 access digital workshop, home to the CSAD’s FabCre8 research group and equipped with a
 range of technologies including high quality 3D printers, flatbed and rotary-based CNC
 machines, powerful laser cutters, and 3D scanners.

 Finally, as a an ITE provider for over 70 years, and among the largest centres of teacher
 education in the UK, the School provides privileged access to 160 placement schools that
 enable us to impact the interface between research and pedagogical practice. Consequently, our
 research groups have formed external strategic alliances and collaborations to facilitate access
 to a wide range of world-leading facilities, infrastructure, and networks. For example, through our
 ITE research group’s involvement with the Cardiff ITE Partnership, we collaborate with the
 Universities of Cardiff and Oxford, and with Cambridge via its Educational Dialogue
 Research Group. These collaborations exploit our acknowledged excellence in ITE provision
 and closeness to the education practitioner-base.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Summary
 Collaborations with key stakeholders and beneficiaries have been integral to much of our activity
 and contributed to our increased grant capture and impact. Our research has informed the policy
 and practice of regional, national, and international stakeholders including: Welsh Government,
 Educational Consortia, BAMEed Wales, Black History 365 Wales, and end-users.
 Collaborative partners include Welsh Government, HEFCW, Sport Wales, national and

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international HEIs, and industry. Our researchers are prominent in their respective fields: 50%
 of those returned sit on editorial boards for peer-reviewed journals, and during the census
 period, 14 colleagues have externally examined 49 research degrees.

 Collaboration with HEIs and key stakeholders
 Our staff made wide-ranging contributions to the research-base, economy, and society during
 the census period, through collaboration and engagement with key networks, partners, research
 users and beneficiaries. This has included close collaboration with other academic institutions,
 policy makers, and stakeholders, nationally and internationally. For example, close collaboration
 with Welsh Government has enabled us to have considerable impact on education policy and
 practice in Wales and beyond, as illustrated by our research partnerships and projects.

 The School is a key network partner in the National Strategy for Educational Research and
 Enquiry (NSERE), formed by Welsh Government in 2019. NSERE aims to ensure that research,
 enquiry, and evidence play a meaningful role in the development of practice in all aspects of the
 Welsh education system. Whilst all Welsh HEIs are represented, Cardiff Met has taken a leading
 role, and five of our researchers were appointed to four NSERE-funded Collaborative Research
 Networks: i) Curriculum and Pedagogy, ii) Leadership and Professional Learning, iii) Welsh
 Language and Bilingual Education, and iv) Equity and Inclusion, ensuring we are integral to
 shaping Welsh Government policy and impacting the nation’s education practice.

 We also contributed pedagogic research expertise to the Welsh Government’s New Curriculum
 for Wales (NCfW) which will launch in all Welsh schools by 2022. Our research has already
 impacted the professional practice of ~1,045 staff, and the learning experience of ~14,900
 pupils. It is projected to reach ~12,427 teachers and ~222,322 pupils early in the REF2028
 cycle.

 Evidence of our responsiveness to societal challenges include a collaboration with Cardiff
 University on the development of a Welsh Government policy for Teacher Training Incentives,
 and an examination of how assessment in Wales can best be adapted for the needs of school
 pupils in response to Covid-19. The School was also involved in a collaboration between
 regional Education Consortia, Estyn, LEAs, Education Workforce Council (Wales), headteacher
 associations, and the support staff trade unions to evaluate the efficacy of how support staff
 were employed in schools.

 Our staff have also collaborated on several interdisciplinary projects with the Universities of
 South Wales, Swansea, Aberystwyth, Cardiff, and Bangor, evaluating the value of
 miniaturisation to engage the public, the ecology of marine life in literature, arts, and the law, and
 the forgotten life of Welsh inventor Philip Putnam. Other collaborations included a scoping
 exercise for helping children with autism, a feasibility project exploring how to assist new
 mothers, and writing and antimicrobial resistance.

 We have benefitted from successful international collaborations such as those facilitated through
 Erasmus+. For example, the ITiLT project impacted the communicative language teaching and
 pedagogical practice of over 9,300 educators, benefitting an estimated 50,000 pupils across
 Europe and Eurasia. School researchers led collaborators from the Universities of Nice–Sophia
 Antipolis (France), Antwerpen (Netherlands), Pädagogische Hochschule Schwäbisch Gmünd
 (Germany), and Hacettepe (Turkey), as well as an industry partner (TELLConsult, Netherlands)
 in the development and dissemination of new and innovative practice in supporting interactive
 language teaching in six European languages. Our PHELL research group were also part of an
 Erasmus+ collaboration with partners from Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (Greece),
 Frederick University (Cyprus), University of Jyvaskyla (Finland), University of Bolzano (Italy), an
 industry partner – Active (Belgium), and the Cyprus Olympic Committee, investigating health-
 enhanced physical activity.

 School researchers also collaborated on the SHOUT4HE project with Universities in Bordeaux
 and Nice (France), Hasselt (Belgium), and Limerick, (Ireland). Our researchers led the

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of Open Education Practices across five European countries to share effective
 practice of teaching with technology in HEIs across a range of disciplines. These practices (total:
 40) are made available on an e-platform, which includes a recognition framework, and e-
 resources to support teaching in HEIs.

 The FUTE project helps teachers and students use design thinking to build engaging learning
 experiences. Together with research partners at the Design School Kolding (Denmark), the
 University of Turku (Finland), the French Ministry of Education (Higher Education and Research
 – Canopé), University College South Denmark, and the South Denmark European Office,
 CSESP developed all 42 method cards, designing, piloting, and evaluating the education
 method and interactive toolkit used by teacher educators and in classrooms in Belgium,
 Denmark, Finland, France, and Wales. Finally, in collaboration with Harvard Medical School,
 Emmetropia Eye Institute (Crete), and Optotech Ltd. (Germany), our researchers are
 contributing to software development that will facilitate screening children at an early age for
 signs of dyslexia.

 Our international strategic collaborations are also extended through the PHELL research group’s
 Erasmus+ project exploring whole school approaches to promoting health enhancing physical
 activity and gives us access to the facilities of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (Greece),
 Frederick University (Cyprus), University of Jyvaskyla (Finland), University of Bolzano (Italy), an
 industry partner – Active (Belgium), and the Cyprus Olympic Committee.

 Collaboration is also integral to PGR supervision and training. As part of our capacity building
 strategy, and to safeguard the highest quality research training, PGR supervisory teams
 frequently comprise a member external to the School and University. For example, 21% of our
 44 PGRs are supervised by external academics from the Open University, the Arab Academy of
 Science and Technology, and the Universities of South Wales, Bath Spa, and Bishop
 Grosseteste. We also currently engage 13 colleagues from other Schools across the University
 as PGR supervisors. Our PGRs also have access to Cardiff University’s Effective Researcher
 interactive course, which facilitates practical ways to increase their effectiveness and meet the
 challenges of the doctoral journey. Developed by the Vitae Programme and tutors in academia,
 industry, and other sectors, the course ensures its relevance to contemporary doctoral research
 and PGRs’ future careers.

 Engagement with research users
 In collaboration with colleagues from Bath Spa University, and supported by the Primary
 Science Teaching Trust, the School hosted the Association for Science Education’s Teacher
 Assessment in Primary Schools (Cymru) project – the Welsh arm of a UK-wide initiative to
 improve science assessment methods in primary schools. School researchers, supported by
 Sport Wales, also worked with PE teachers in our partner schools leading to a collaboration
 with the Universities of Wales Trinity St David, Bangor, and South Wales on the Physical
 Literacy Programme for Schools project, supporting the development of Physical Literacy across
 Wales. The project findings have already been used to guide Physical Literacy education and its
 development by Sport Wales.

 The Cardiff ITE Partnership brings together School expertise with that of the Universities of
 Oxford and Cardiff, to work with the Central South Consortium, Education Achievement
 Service, City of Cardiff, and lead partnership schools and alliances. Underpinned by our
 research into pedagogic practice, School staff ensure that ITE mentors in our 160 PGCE
 placement schools provide student teachers with support which is fully research informed. We
 also work closely with partnership schools’ ‘Research Champions’, to assist our student teachers
 to undertake placement research.

 Our collaboration with local schools extends to early-years provision. School researchers work
 closely with our local community schools to introduce them to the benefits of play-learning
 through the Outdoor-Learning Centre. Supported by community charitable donations, the ‘Forest
 University’, located on-campus in ancient woodland, provides a research-base for exploring

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pedagogic theories relating to children and outdoor activity, and hosts 1000 early-years pupils
 annually from deprived and disadvantaged areas in and around Cardiff.

 Additionally, supported by a HEFCW Civic Mission and Community Engagement grant, School
 researchers collaborated with Bridgend County Borough Council, and staff and pupils at
 Blaenycwn and Deighton primary schools to design a Wellbeing App. The App has directly
 impacted 240 children, and, whilst its wider sharing was paused by the Covid-19 pandemic, it
 highlights how our staff extend the reach of their education research into real world scenarios,
 facilitating pupils’ learning.

 Finally, in collaboration with international partners at the Singapore Institute of Science and
 Technology (IOST), and part-funded by the Infocomm Development Authority (Singapore),
 School researchers undertook a mixed-method evaluation using observations during (virtual)
 participatory surgeries with UK and Singapore based students and teachers. Observing launch
 and exit activities, both students and teachers self-reported on their experiences using IOST
 materials compared to not using IOST materials.

 Contribution to the research-base
 School staff have also contributed to the research-base, economy, and society through their
 advisory roles within professional bodies and learned societies, and engagement in several
 activities that exemplify their contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, nationally and
 internationally.

 Our researchers fulfil 10 editorial board roles on key journals in the field, including: Editor for
 the Wales Journal of Education (Beauchamp), Palgrave Studies in Contemporary Women’s
 Writing (North), and MEKATRONICA (Chew); Editorial Board Members for the Wales Journal
 of Education (Aldous), the Curriculum Journal (Beauchamp), Education 3–13 (Beauchamp),
 Writing in Practice (North, Thatcher), the Journal of Education Studies (Egan), the British
 Journal of Educational Technology (Beauchamp), the Journal of Historical Fictions (English),
 the Journal of Educational Leadership and Management (Egan), D.H. Lawrence Studies, and
 Key Words: A Journal of Cultural Materialism (Wallace); Statistical Advisor to the editorial
 boards of the British Medical Journal and the Journal of Sports Sciences (Cooper).The diversity
 of our staff’s research expertise also extends to reviewing for more than 50 peer-reviewed
 journals.

 Our staff also serve as members of the peer-review colleges of funding councils (Aitchison,
 Hanton: ESRC; Griffiths: AHRC), and assess funding bids for research councils (Casaliggi:
 ESRC, AHRC; Taylor-Collins: Irish Research Council). They also chair, and are members of,
 boards of several learned associations and societies, including: the British Educational
 Research Association and the British Educational Studies Association (Beauchamp); Sport
 Wales (Longville, Robinson); Sport Scotland (Robinson); Modernist Network (Cymru) [English];
 Welsh Government Foundation Phase Expert Group, and Education Workforce Council
 Research Engagement Group (Egan); and the British Association for Irish Studies (Taylor-
 Collins). Researchers are also members of several diversity networks, including BAMEed
 Wales (Davis, Chair; Haughton, Vice-Chair), and Black History 365 Wales (Haughton, Chair).
 Haughton also contributed to a Welsh Government working group to improve the teaching of
 themes relating to BAME community experiences across all parts of the school curriculum.

 Our staff also hold significant positions in several educational societies and bodies. Aitchison
 is Chair of the South East Wales Centre for Education in Teacher Training, Wallace Chaired the
 British Association of Modernist Studies, and Modernist Network (Cymru), and Longville sits on
 the Education Workforce Council (Cymru), Universities Council for the Education of Teachers
 (UCET) and UCET (Cymru). Bryant is an ambassador and committee member, and Mitchell
 leads the early-years special interest research group, for the International Physical Literacy
 Association. Morgan sits on Rhwydwaith Ymchwil Cyfrwng Cymraeg, a pan-Wales Welsh-
 medium education research network committee. Palazon is a council member with Adult
 Learning Wales, and Webber is Executive Officer of the Wales Association of Standing Advisory

                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Councils on Religious Education, and Vice-Chair of the National Advisory Panel on Religious
 Education. Yu sits on the South-East Wales Committee of the Association for Science
 Education, Stewart is a member of the National Network of Excellence in Mathematics, and
 Thayer is a member of the Standing Committee in Teaching of Education Drama. Significantly,
 Egan is currently seconded to the Welsh Government to develop a national strategy for
 education research in Wales.

 Finally, School researchers are also recognised for their expertise through the award of
 fellowships: Royal Society of Arts (Egan, North); Royal Statistical Society and National
 Network of Excellence in Mathematics (Cooper, Stewart), English Association (Wallace), and
 Honorary Professorships: University of Durham (Beauchamp). During the census period, 14
 colleagues have served as external examiners for 49 research degrees: Aldous,
 Beauchamp, Bryant, Casaliggi, Cooper, Chew, English, Fimi, Griffiths, Kneen, Massoud,
 Morgan, North, and Wallace, including three internationally: Australia (Beauchamp), Ireland
 (Fimi), and Spain (Casaliggi). These activities evidence the significance, reach, and impact of
 our engagement with key stakeholders, research users, and beneficiaries.

 Conclusions
 Having been unable to return to REF2014, we invested £1.4 million to develop a strong,
 sustainable, inclusive, and impactful research environment. We doubled the number of
 researchers engaged in PGR supervision, increased our independently research-engaged staff
 by 40%, our staff with doctorates by 46%, and our funding capture by over 3,600%. We used our
 strong applied base in the education community to attract Russell Group and Ivy League
 partners, and our government partnerships to drive and deliver policy, for example by
 underpinning the New Curriculum for Wales, thereby impacting ~1,045 staff, and ~14,900 pupils.
 Other pedagogic research affected the practice of over 9,300 educators, benefitting ~50,000
 pupils across Europe and Eurasia.




                                                                                          Page 14
