Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: A04 Psychology, Psychiatry, Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 Research in Psychology at the OU (Psychology@OU) has an established reputation within the
 discipline and long tradition of discipline-defining empirical, methodological and theoretical
 innovation. We excel at developing theory and methodology, and applying psychology in a
 variety of settings with substantial societal impact. We work across disciplines and beyond
 traditional academic boundaries. Our long-established research in social/cultural and applied
 cognitive psychology, and emerging focus on the psychology of health and well-being, are
 distinctive for being: theoretically informed but also rooted in everyday life; multi-perspectival and
 methodologically open; participatory and engaged with multiple publics. We seek to understand,
 transform and enrich the lives of individuals and communities through our commitment to social
 justice within our research.

 This is the first return to a research assessment exercise for this unit since 2001, with staff more
 recently having been returned to other REF units including Sociology, Computing, and History.
 Two staff members are being returned to other units on this occasion (Byford to D28; Taylor to
 C20). The creation of a School of Psychology and Counselling in 2016 - allied to the
 implementation of the Stern review of research - provided new impetus around the organisation
 and development of research in psychology. This has led to rapid and continuing investment and
 growth. Further, in 2019 a decision was made to invest significantly in research, postgraduate
 teaching and knowledge-exchange capacity in the School (£1.6M over 3 years) with the creation
 of a new research centre and recruitment of additional academic and administrative staff (see
 2.1).

 The School of Psychology and Counselling is located within the Faculty of Arts and Social
 Sciences. Our research is currently organised through three research groups within the School:
 Culture and Social Psychology Group (CuSP); Forensic Cognition Research Group (FCRG), and
 Psychology of Health and Well-being (PHeW). At Faculty and Institution level, psychology staff
 also play a central role in a number of interdisciplinary groupings including the Faculty Harm and
 Evidence Research Collaborative, and the Gender, Intimacies and Sexuality and Justice,
 Borders & Rights streams of the University Citizenship and Governance Strategic Research
 Area, as well as the University Centre for Policing Research and Learning. The boundaries
 within and between groupings are somewhat flexible and some staff are members of more than
 one group. The School and wider Faculty/Institution groupings provide an intellectual home for
 staff within Psychology@OU and provide considerable resource for their research. Further, at
 the point of submission, School research is being brought together and realigned within a new
 Psychology and Counselling Research Centre that will further support the development of our
 interdisciplinary, open and engaged research in the future.

 1.1.1 Culture and Social Psychology Group (CuSP)

 Members: Andreouli; Byford; Capdevila; Clarke; Crafter; Dixon; Jones; Kaposi; Langdridge;
 Lazard; Mahendran; Motzkau; Stenner; Taylor

 The Culture and Social Psychology Research Group (CuSP) is founded on the notion that social
 psychology is itself ‘on the cusp’ of emergence rather than a settled discipline, with a particular
 substantive focus on occasions of social transition, personal transformation and emergent and
 contested cultural and political issues. Researchers engage with and develop social psychology
 beyond the classic experimental model, grappling with dialogical (Mahendran), discursive and
 narrative psychology (Andreouli, Byford, Dixon, Kaposi, Taylor), critical psychology (Clarke,

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Jones, Motzkau), feminist psychology (Capdevila, Lazard), social identities and
 representations (Andreouli, Dixon), socio-cultural (Crafter, Stenner) and hermeneutic-
 phenomenological psychology (Langdridge), each of which gives a new centrality to the
 concept of culture as core to human experience and development. CuSP research provides new
 empirical insight into real-world issues in a changing society, including changing developmental
 (Crafter), gendered (Capdevila, Lazard), religious (Dixon), sexual (Langdridge), professional
 (Motzkau, Taylor) and political (Andreouli, Kaposi, Mahendran, Stenner) subjectivities in
 concrete contexts.

 CuSP meets monthly to discuss work in progress and grant applications and to develop the
 group’s research agenda. It also organises an active programme of public events, including a
 regular annual lecture series in London (featuring e.g. Prof Zittoun as keynote last year). CuSP
 is also a collaborator with the Cultural Psychology Network (CuPsyNet), designed to support
 PhD students undertaking research in sociocultural psychology in Europe.

 CuSP research is spearheading a distinctive and innovative approach to the psychological as
 materially embodied, culturally mediated, and embedded in social practices. CuSP research is
 providing new empirical insight into processes of gendered and political subjectivity, the
 navigation of boundaries (e.g. identities of place, gender, sexuality), emotional dynamics and
 affective relationships (including group conflicts), contemporary governance through self (work,
 media, migration) and the power dynamics and phenomenology of health concerns, including
 real-world applications and impacts. See, for instance, the special issue on Brexit in J. of
 Community and Applied Psychology (Andreouli, Kaposi, Stenner, 2019
 https://doi.org/10.1002/casp.2390 and https://doi.org/10.1002/casp.2375). A number of members
 are also internationally recognised for their methodological expertise and innovation
 (Langdridge; Stenner; Taylor) and for their contributions to psychosocial theory (Dixon; Jones;
 Stenner).

 1.1.2 Forensic Cognition Research Group (FCRG)

 Members: Briggs; Curley; Frumkin; Harrison; Havard; Pike; Strathie; Turner; Walkington

 The Forensic Cognition Research Group (FCRG) brings together psychological researchers
 interested in all aspects of forensic and cognitive psychology, but with a particular focus on
 addressing applied issues in collaboration with practitioners from a range of backgrounds. The
 group collaborates with psychologists from other universities and Open University researchers
 from many disciplines (from computer science to creative writing). Rather than seeing translation
 to practice as the end point of the research process, the group places collaboration with
 practitioners (such as policing personnel, legal professionals and representatives from transport
 agencies and charities) at the heart of all activity and at all stages of the research process. This
 approach leads not only to innovative and exciting questions and methods, but also to projects
 that impact technological development, practice and government policy. See, for example,
 Briggs’ impact case study on distraction and driver behaviour.

 Psychology@OU staff from the Forensic Cognition Research Group also play a central role in
 the University-wide Centre for Policing Research and Learning (CPRL), with the involvement of
 9 unit members (Briggs; Curley; Frumkin; Harrison; Havard; Pike; Strathie; Turner,
 Walkington), including Pike serving as Director of Research for the Centre. This involves staff
 leading a large number of successful and impactful research projects, including on:

    •   Policing practice, citizen enquiry and solving crime with social media (Havard and Pike),
        conducted in collaboration with Greater Manchester Police and Gwent Police.
    •   Fear of terrorism in the UK (Frumkin) conducted in collaboration with Greater
        Manchester Police.
    •   Improving investigations through utilising technology, community and psychology
        (Harrison; Havard; Pike; Walkington) with the National Crime Agency.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Tactics for handling Covert Human Intelligence Sources (Pike), using external funding for
        a Senior Practitioner Fellow from the National Crime Agency.

 1.1.3 Psychology of Health and Well-being (PHeW)

 Members: Clarke; Di Malta; Frumkin; Harrison; Jones; Kaposi; Langdridge; McGrath; Moller;
 Pike; Vossler

 The Psychology of Health and Wellbeing group emerged following recent expansion (notably,
 the recruitment of Clarke, Di Malta, Jones and McGrath since 2018) and builds on existing
 expertise in psychotherapeutic outcome and process research (Moller; Vossler) and critical
 mental health (Langdridge, and previously also Barker). This represents a deliberate strategy of
 intellectual development within the School of Psychology and Counselling involving a synergy
 between a growing teaching area and a substantive research focus. It addresses three distinct
 yet interlinked themes:

    •   Counselling and psychotherapy, with particular interest in therapy outcomes as well as
        processes within the therapy room (Di Malta; Moller; Vossler);
    •   Critical approaches to mental health and health psychology, with a focus on the
        dynamics of individual and social-political forces in the formation of (mental) health
        (Clarke; Jones; Kaposi; Langdridge; McGrath);
    •   Wellbeing in contexts, concerned with the psychology of health arising from different
        working environments, communities and life events (Frumkin; Harrison; Langdridge;
        Moller; Pike).

 The Group has a strong professional grounding as well as theoretical interest in practice and
 practices. Members, several of whom are qualified practitioners (Clarke; Jones; Kaposi;
 Langdridge; Moller; Vossler), are exploring alternative ways of engaging with individual,
 community and political practices related to health and wellbeing. The clinical-academic
 interface is therefore central to the work of this group.

 1.2 Interdisciplinary, open and engaged research

 Interdisciplinary, and transdisciplinary, research is a strong thread throughout the unit.
 Researchers work with colleagues across a wide range of disciplines including notably:
 computing, history, sociology, business, social work and social policy. This is supported by
 Faculty and Institution research structures, with long-standing relationships between the three
 School research groups and academics and practitioners from other disciplines. Open and
 engaged research is central to the OU more generally and actively embraced within the unit (see
 3.2). All publications are made available through ORO, the OU publication repository, and all
 data are deposited in line with UKRI standards. Furthermore, our research is disseminated
 through our very large-scale teaching and extensive public engagement activity (see 4.5). The
 co-production of research with research users (e.g. practitioners, NGOs, activists, public)
 through citizen science is also central to much of our work.

 The Centre for Policing Research and Learning (CPRL) is an excellent – and not singular -
 example of our strategic approach to interdisciplinary, open and engaged research. It was
 formed in 2014, using funding from the College of Policing, by Pike and Hartley (Prof. of Public
 Leadership, OU Business School) to establish a partnership between the OU and 5 UK Police
 forces/agencies. Since then it has expanded to include formal partnerships with 20 police
 agencies, which provide financial support to the Centre through direct funding, and it works with
 more than 60 academics from every faculty/institute at the OU. Since 2014, it has generated
 more than £6.3M in external income. The Centre’s signature approach is described as “research
 into practice and practice into research”, with it focused on the co-production of research and
 impact in order to fulfil a mission to create and use knowledge to improve policing for the good of
 society. It is based on an approach to research, learning and knowledge into practice which


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 values the contributions which can be made by both academics and practitioners, but particularly
 by teams comprised of both.

 1.3 Research ethics and integrity

 Ethical research with integrity is supported through required scrutiny of all research by the
 University Human Research Ethics Committee, which is Chaired by a member of the
 Psychology@OU unit (Hewson). Hewson also conducts regular sessions on ethics and
 research integrity within the School, including most recently multiple sessions on conducting
 ethical research online, her particular specialism having led the working group producing the
 guidelines on online research for the BPS. Our focus on co-production of knowledge further
 supports an ethical approach to knowledge generation with the involvement of users, NGOs etc.
 central to many programmes of work (e.g. Crafter’s work with child migrants; Dixon’s work with
 religious communities in Belfast; Langdridge’s work on sexuality). Legal and professional
 standards are also assured through the way we engage in the co-production of knowledge with
 professional bodies (e.g. British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy). The
 reproducibility crisis within psychology has also been widely discussed within the unit and
 continues to be addressed through both critical engagement with the nature of how knowledge is
 being produced (and methodological limits therein), along with a focused approach to engaged
 research with communities beyond the traditional undergraduate student body. To this end,
 Psychology@OU staff have made a significant contribution to debates through publication output
 addressing the history and philosophy of the discipline.

 1.4 Research and impact strategy

 Our strategy is to build on our established history in psychological research whilst also investing
 heavily in Psychology@OU research capacity. That is, we are submitting our innovative,
 internationally excellent, and highly interdisciplinary work for review in REF2021 whilst seeking
 to build substantial further capacity in the three sub-disciplinary areas outlined above for future
 REF exercises.

 We have developed an ongoing research strategy which involves:

    •   Building on the established strengths in social psychology and applied cognitive
        psychology with expansion in the psychology of health and wellbeing. We aim to sustain
        research communities within each area that are internationally recognised for their
        distinctive contribution to the discipline.
    •   Expanding and promoting existing theoretical and methodological expertise to ensure
        Psychology@OU is recognised globally as a world-leading centre for innovation and
        development.
    •   Improving the sustainability of research through increased (high quality) bidding activity,
        and therefore income generation, as well as diversification of income sources. We aim
        for all research active staff to be bidding regularly, and for a substantial body of research
        to be supported by external funding, by the next REF exercise.
    •   Increasing quantity and quality of publication output through enhanced mentoring and
        strategic support activity to ensure that all staff with research in their contract produce
        internationally excellent REF outputs, proportionate to career stage. Quality is defined
        using REF criteria, mindful of the OU commitment to the San Francisco Declaration on
        Research Assessment (DORA).
    •   Ongoing development of our PG Research Student culture, supporting student
        integration, building capacity, and improving student diversity, support and completion.

 Our impact strategy is focused on:

    •   Supporting open and engaged research focused on the co-production of knowledge in
        theory, practice, and public engagement through mentoring and targeted investment.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Investing and growing further our REF impact activity, ensuring research projects are
        planned with impact activity early in the process and that potential impact cases are
        identified for support and investment early in the next REF cycle.
    •   Continuing to invest in the large-scale opportunities for public engagement with our
        research through links with the BBC, use of OpenLearn, FutureLearn and other OU
        massive open online platforms.
    •   Continuing to support the close synergy of research and teaching. Teaching at the OU
        has the capacity to reach vast numbers of people: this includes the very large body of
        students (see 4.5) and also other academics through our co-published course materials,
        providing a valuable opportunity to communicate research to a variety of publics.
    •   Working closely with users through the co-production of knowledge to inform policy and
        practice in health and wellbeing, policing and wider societal issues (e.g. prejudice and
        inequalities). Our aim is to act as a leading provider of expertise for policy and practice
        nationally and internationally on the research topics we cover.

 In order to achieve these strategic objectives, we put in place the following action plan,
 beginning 2018/19:

 High-level structure and staffing:

    •   Establishment of a Psychology and Counselling Research Centre to facilitate and
        support all psychology research related activities within the School and University, and
        increase the visibility of research to both internal and external stakeholders. This involves
        an initial substantial Faculty investment of £1.6M (over 3 years) in research,
        postgraduate teaching and knowledge-exchange for Psychology@OU. The Centre will
        be publicly launched July 2021.
    •   Development of a financial and workload support plan to enhance research activity and
        build research impact cases, including specific support for impact cases that may be
        submitted for REF exercises beyond REF2021.
    •   Additional recruitment of research active staff. To date, we have recruited an additional
        professor with research interests complementary to existing expertise (Hegarty, formerly
        at Surrey), and three further lecturers all of whom have research interests aligned to the
        three research groupings. We have also recruited additional staff to support research as
        detailed in 2.1. There is also resource for recruitment of a further lecturer/senior lecturer
        in 2021/22 and two postdocs/research fellows.
    •   Recruitment of all new research active staff includes key REF criteria.
    •   Production of an accurate and transparent database of all research and scholarship
        within the School, including publications, bidding activity, impact activity and
        postgraduate student information.

 Culture and practice:

    •   Continuing to run a regular cycle of research days to support the research culture,
        formulate strategy, and engage in the interchange of knowledge and ideas.
    •   Provision of targeted sessions with external speakers in support of REF research activity
        (e.g. on bidding, publication, impact strategy).
    •   Dedicated research mentoring (by senior researcher) for each staff member and
        associated strategy for individual research development that links with the annual Career
        Development and Staff Appraisal (CDSA) process and is monitored by the School
        Management Team.
    •   Further development and promotion of the School External Engagement and Social
        Media Strategy to improve awareness of OU research to a wide variety of stakeholders.
    •   Further support for key REF research activities, notably publication output and bidding
        activity, through the strategic provision of dedicated blocks of sabbatical leave, with
        financial support as necessary.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Postgraduate student support:

    •   Continuing to further embed the psychology pathway in the Grand Union Doctoral
        Training Programme (in conjunction with Oxford University), within Psychology@OU
        research more broadly.
    •   Further integration of PhD students into Psychology@OU research culture to ensure their
        equal involvement in all activities, mindful of the need to attend closely to issues of
        diversity and how that may impact such involvement.
    •   Further promotion of PhD student research to the wider undergraduate student body and
        also wider society via our extensive media and social media channels.
    •   Enhanced support for PhD student impact activity through targeted training and support
        early within the PhD process.

 Action plan for impact:

 The impact cases we are returning for review in this REF exercise emerge from research within
 each of the Psychology@OU research groupings. Briggs’ longstanding research on the dangers
 of hands-free phone use when driving has been supported by the Forensic Cognition Research
 Group. Harrison’s work on the health effects of long-term, low-level exposure to
 organophosphates forms part of the wider interest in the psychology of health and well-being,
 which is now formally part of the PHeW group. And, finally, Dixon’s work on intergroup contact
 and segregation in Belfast demonstrates the bringing together of sophisticated theory and
 innovative methods with an important practical concern that is a focus of the CuSP grouping.

 The development of Impact Case Studies for REF2021 has been underpinned in a number of
 more specific ways: (1) Case Study leads have been given access to OU funding to support
 case development activity; (2) Case Study leads have also been given work-loaded time to
 devote to the development of their Case Studies; (3) Langdridge and Dixon have had regular
 individual and collective meetings with Case Study leads, mainly focused on closing the gap
 between impact-related activity and the securing of evidence; (4) Feedback and support at
 Faculty level for impact activity through expert surgeries and individual advice. This activity will
 continue post-REF2021 with the implementation of the longer-term REF strategy, including
 specific support and investment (from the School, Faculty and University) for ongoing impact
 activity and case study development. In particular, future impact activity will be enhanced by
 ensuring pathways to impact are well-planned within research bids, and then supported in their
 execution by drawing upon the extensive School, Faculty and Institution level support for open
 and engaged research.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Psychology@OU has a longstanding record of supporting the careers of research active staff,
 with particular efforts made to encourage growth in capacity since REF2014. Twenty-six staff are
 being returned in this exercise to this unit. There has been substantial investment in new staff
 within the School of Psychology and Counselling since the last REF exercise, with the
 appointment of 3 lecturers early in the REF cycle (Andreouli; Kaposi; Lazard) and 5 new
 lecturers (Clarke; Curley; Di Malta; McGrath; Strathie: 3 ECR) and 3 senior lecturers (Crafter;
 Frumkin; Jones) within the last 2 years. In addition, in 2019/20 we recruited a new professor, 3
 new lecturers, a research centre manager, research centre administrator, and research
 technician, as part of a strategic plan to build further research capacity within the School of
 Psychology. A PDRA has also been appointed (3 years) to support grant bidding and impact
 activity during this REF period. Only 3 research active academics have left the School (Barker;
 Brace; Thirkettle), Barker to pursue a career as a writer, Brace retired, and Thirkettle being the


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 only member of staff moving to another institution, a sign of the very positive environment for
 research provided within Psychology@OU.

 Career progression is highly valued within Psychology@OU, with 9 lecturers promoted to senior
 lecturer (Andreouli; Briggs; Harrison; Havard, Hewson; Kaposi; Lazard, Mahendran;
 Turner) and two senior lecturers promoted to professor (Crafter; Langdridge) since 2014. The
 unit includes a high proportion of women academics (N=16, 62%), at all career stages from
 lecturer to professor. The OU provides a supportive and productive environment for enhancing
 staff capacity. All staff are provided with a research mentor on appointment (a senior
 researcher), and another staff member who supports them through their probationary period.
 Staff members produce a research and scholarship plan that includes both short-term and
 longer-term goals, in liaison with their research mentor. Mentoring meetings are held a minimum
 of once per term, where research strategy is discussed and any obstacles or challenges
 addressed. In the annual career development and staff appraisal process, staff members are
 encouraged to review and plan both their immediate (next year) and longer-term goals, including
 discussion of their research and scholarship plan. Junior staff act as co-supervisors in PhD
 supervision teams - supported by an OU training scheme - to help prepare them and ensure
 they provide the best experience for our PhD students.

 Research active staff are allocated one research day per week plus two months annual
 sabbatical leave (known as ‘study leave’) that is usually taken in blocks but may also be used
 throughout the year. This equates to approximately a third of their workload being dedicated to
 research. In addition, where necessary, individual arrangements are made with line managers to
 carry over research leave into a following year to ensure that staff are compensated for
 exceptional teaching or administrative demands. Staff are also supported on a case-by-case
 manner with additional support (e.g. teaching cover). This has been used, for instance, to
 support staff leading major grant projects. Clinical staff are further supported through the
 provision of time within their workload to engage in practice and supervision, along with support
 for their continuing professional development. There is a transparent workload model in
 operation throughout the School and all staff engage in a pre-Career Development and Staff
 Appraisal (CDSA) discussion of research, teaching and administrative aims and ambitions with
 respect to planning workload. The substantial growth in staff within the School of Psychology,
 including the recruitment of 13 new permanent Staff Tutors (most on a teaching and scholarship
 career pathway) in this REF period to support teaching (now 25 in total), has enabled the Head
 of School to maximise opportunities for staff research aims and objectives to be met.

 2.1.1 Equality and diversity

 Through the active drive to create a supportive academic community that recognises how
 equality and diversity enhance research activity and outcomes, equality and diversity issues are
 attended to within all formal processes. The School supports flexible working arrangements for
 all staff, including those who return from sick or parental leave, with many staff able to work the
 majority of time from home. This is particularly helpful for people with disabilities and caring
 responsibilities. Meetings are also scheduled to avoid times that may clash with parental
 responsibilities and video conferencing was in widespread use before the pandemic. Career
 pathways - including promotion opportunities - are equivalent for full and part-time staff, with all
 promotion panels comprised of a diverse body of staff, that have undergone diversity training,
 and who conduct regular audits to ensure there is no systematic bias in favour or against staff
 with particular protected characteristics. Management of research assistants is similarly focused
 on providing a supportive working environment and facilitating successful career development
 opportunities. All School and Faculty funding decisions are undertaken by panels who attend to
 both panel composition and recipient with respect to protected characteristics to ensure there is
 no bias, with all such decisions conducted to published criteria. Additionally, all formal
 administrative and leadership roles (e.g. Director of Research) are allocated on the basis of
 explicit appointment procedures to ensure equality of opportunity. More junior staff are also
 mentored and encouraged to apply for such opportunities in line with their career plans and


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aspirations. The consistent focus at the OU on providing a supportive academic environment
 that enhances staff well-being has been particularly appreciated during the pandemic.

 Our REF submission has been chaired by Langdridge supported by a panel of 3 members
 (Capdevila/Andreouli, Dixon, Havard), whose appointment has been ratified by both the
 Faculty and University (2 female, 2 male). All panel members completed Equality and Diversity
 training required as per the OU CoP and attended numerous workshops and briefing events.
 There is a workload allowance for panel members and all formal meetings are officially minuted.
 All decisions about outputs have been determined by formal meetings of the panel with input
 from an external assessor and represent work from early career and professorial staff in similar
 volumes. Impact case study assessment (and support) has been conducted both by the panel
 and with the assistance of external assessors, Faculty and Institutional assessment. In line with
 the OU CoP all requests for reductions in output on the basis of special circumstances were
 considered independently of the unit REF panel by the University Equality and Diversity Panel.

 2.1.2 Future staffing strategy

 Our future strategy on staffing is to continue to enhance research support through: (i) continued
 investment in the new Research Centre; (ii) replacement of staff at an equivalent level, mindful
 of the need to increase diversity; (iii) managing staff workload, particularly sabbatical leave, to
 ensure maximum opportunity for research and impact activity; (iv) greater focus on auditing
 outcomes from investment in time and resource to ensure any blocks to effective working are
 identified early; (v) development of a support network, facilitated by senior researchers, for early
 career and new staff – through a virtual networking facility – to support their research activity and
 plans. At Faculty level, there has also been the further development of research support
 including employment of additional senior administrative staff (including specialists in external
 engagement, impact and business relationships), and provision of bid writing, impact
 development, knowledge exchange, and public engagement sessions, and an enhanced peer
 review system for research bidding.

 2.2 Research students

 Our postgraduate research community is a very important part of our research environment,
 currently comprising 29 doctoral students, 4 of whom are full-time and 25 part-time. In the
 census period, 15 students have completed PhDs. Part-time students outnumber full-time
 students, reflecting the University’s mission to reach those who find campus-based, full-time
 study challenging. This tends to result in longer time periods for completion, especially as many
 are mature students, have jobs, health concerns/disabilities and/or caring responsibilities. Staff
 and structures provide support for students needing to take breaks from their studies, ensuring
 this very diverse student body have the maximum opportunity to complete their awards.

 Students have been funded through a variety of means including grant income, employer
 funding, research centre and faculty bursaries, in addition to self-funded students. We have also
 secured support through charitable donations. Recently, for instance, Mahendran received a
 Rachel Webb Political Psychology PhD studentship to fund a student, supported by the
 International Society of Political Psychology (from 2018-22). We also attract visiting PhD
 students within Psychology@OU. In 2019-20, for instance, we had two visiting PhD students
 from ISCTE - University Institute of Lisbon and one from the Department of Education at
 Bogazici University (both visiting to work with CuSP members). In 2019 Psychology@OU
 successfully secured a joint ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership pathway with the University of
 Oxford. Psychology@OU hosts the applied and critical social psychology element of the
 pathway because of its outstanding international leadership in developing, drawing attention to,
 and challenging, social injustices in areas such as gender, race, immigration, poverty and
 sexuality.

 PhD applicants are recruited through open application and interviews by small panels of
 diversity-trained staff to ensure fair selection. We are distinctive in taking into account an

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 applicant’s professional and life experience rather than necessarily insisting on an MSc or first-
 class BSc as a prerequisite, and we encourage part-time students. This inclusive approach
 benefits students with protected characteristics and those from non-traditional educational
 backgrounds. PhD students’ work and support is overseen at the Faculty level by the Director of
 Research Degrees and within the School by the PG Convenor (Clarke). The role includes the
 organisation of admissions, student support, and development of a research culture within
 Psychology@OU that centrally involves PhD students.

 OU research students benefit from excellent facilities and development tools. Our research
 library has extensive online facilities to support psychological research and is particularly adept
 at supporting students studying at a distance, including 24-hour support from librarians, while
 also offering physical access to its print collection (see also 3.2). Our PhD students receive
 generous financial support; £1000 p.a. for full-time students, £500 part-time, and may bid for
 further Faculty funding. OU postgraduate students can also bid for up to £1250 p.a from the
 international Santander Universities Network to facilitate exchange and interaction with national
 and international universities. Full-time students are allocated workspace and a networked
 laptop.

 All research students are expected to acquire skills appropriate for PhD graduates, including
 high-level skills in methodology for psychology students. These are delivered via a rigorous
 induction process, regular training sessions and sophisticated online facilities. A comprehensive
 and systematic Research Career Development Programme is provided for all research students
 from induction to viva preparation, complemented by research methods training at generic and
 personal level. Face-to-face and online careers services provide personalised advice. Teaching
 opportunities are offered to those interested in a career in higher education (including lecturing
 via Adobe Connect). A web portal provides access to a virtual environment built to the OU’s
 world-leading standards, providing access to skills development opportunities, news, careers
 services, supervision, library, social media and administrative resources, and ensuring parity of
 experience to part-time and full-time research students regardless of their physical location.
 Because of the quality and flexibility of our existing online provision, it has proved feasible to
 adapt our research support very effectively during the COVID-19 pandemic.

 Our infrastructure for PhD research meets or exceeds the requirements of all research councils
 and Quality Assurance Agency standards. Each student has at least two supervisors. Progress
 and training are monitored through six-monthly formal progress reports, with initial MPhil
 registration upgraded to PhD following satisfactory performance in a presentation and upgrade
 viva assessed independently of the supervision team by two internal examiners. Progress and
 probationary reports are scrutinised and approved by the Faculty Director of Research Degrees.
 The University’s strict quality assurance standards prohibit the final examination of a student by
 staff who have been involved at any stage of a candidate’s supervision. An Exam Panel Chair
 with extensive supervisory and examination experience is appointed and examination teams
 need to have collectively examined at least five PhDs.

 The further expansion of support for research students is also foregrounded in the rationale of
 the Psychology and Counselling Research Centre. PhD students continue to be an integral part
 of Psychology@OU research culture and are additionally supported through active involvement
 in Research Groups. PhD students in the CuSP research group are involved in the Europe-wide
 CuPsyNet framework of cultural psychology, which has yearly conferences across Europe. An
 OU PhD student was a CuSP delegate at the most recent conference in Neuchatel and the next
 CuPsyNet meeting is being organised by the OU. We run regular data analysis workshops for all
 students and also a one-day PhD conference, which includes talks from Psychology@OU staff
 and panels of PhD presentations and discussion.

 Our training programme equips our students for a successful career beyond the PhD. Many
 graduates now pursue academic and professional practice careers in the UK and abroad. This
 includes, for instance, a recent PhD now undertaking a research fellowship at the University of


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alberta, Canada, and another being employed within the School in the PDRA role supporting
 grant bidding and impact activity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Whilst income within Psychology@OU has been modest in comparison with discipline norms,
 income figures for the unit have been consistently improving, with some significant recent
 success. Psychology@OU staff have also made substantial contributions as Co-Is to several
 major interdisciplinary projects for which the income has been reported to other UOAs. It is worth
 noting that the proportionate share of these grants that relate to the Psychology Co-Is amounts
 to approximately as much again as the income formally attributed to Psychology@OU in this
 REF, and reflects the strong commitment of the UOA to interdisciplinary research, and its
 integral role within wider Open University research.

 Internal funding to support research is available from multiple sources. All staff are provided with
 an automatic annual allowance of £500 for research expenses. In addition, staff can apply for an
 additional £1000 per annum from the School of Psychology research budget (totalling £36,000
 per annum). This is mainly used for conference attendance, supporting events (e.g. research
 days, visiting speakers), and other incidental research expenses. Staff also have access to
 funds from the Faculty Strategic Research Investment Fund (totalling approx. £85,000 per
 annum) in support of grant bidding activity, impact activity and production of high-quality outputs.
 Staff from Psychology@OU have received £51,439 from this fund since 2016 plus a further
 £26,000 in 2019/20 to purchase a mobile eye tracker. Additionally, separate central university
 support has been provided for REF preparations since 2018, with a total of £95,000 allocated to
 the A4 unit. Finally, staff may also be linked to a university strategic or priority research area,
 which provide further financial investment in research and access HE impact funding.
 Psychology@OU staff have benefitted from substantial support from all these bodies during this
 REF period.

 In the past four years in particular, Psychology@OU has been focussed on increasing our
 external grant income. This has necessarily been a staged process, which will take some time to
 come to full fruition but meanwhile a very strong body of world-leading work (e.g. in theory and
 methodology) has been conducted with relatively modest external financial support. We began
 our strategy for improved income by building networks and support systems for bidding, and this
 was followed by a notable increase in bidding spread across the staff group. We are also
 increasing the diversity of funders being targeted, with recent bidding success from UKRI, NiHR,
 EU, ISRF and BA. At present, all funding bids must be reviewed by two senior researchers
 before being submitted. Building funding applications forms a central part in the annual staff
 appraisal process, with experienced mentors supporting junior colleagues in bidding. We have
 invited speakers to our research days to build expertise in bidding, including RCUK grant panel
 members. In addition, bids are discussed within research groups and other institutional research
 structures as a standard activity to improve quality in advance of submission. Investment in the
 new Research Centre, with associated dedicated staffing, will also serve to support our ambition
 to substantially grow external income.

 Notable funded projects across all three research groupings in this REF cycle include:

 Within the CUSP group:

    •   Crafter is PI on a large £812,417 ESRC funded project ‘Between protection and
        exclusion: Separated child migrants’ care relationships and caring practices (CCoM)’,
    •   Dixon was PI on the £392,138 ESRC funded project (2015-18) ‘The Belfast Mobility
        Project: Intergroup contact, segregation and the time-geography of sectarian relations in
        Belfast’, and PI on a UKIERI funded project (£29,000) on ‘Intergroup contact and
        collective action in educational settings in India’ (2014 - 2016).

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Andreouli, Stenner and Kaposi, in association with the LSE, ran a BPS funded seminar
        series (£2,994) on ‘Post-Brexit politics: a social psychological interrogation of community
        and citizenship’.

 Within the FCRG group:

    •   Pike is Co-I (with additional input from Frumkin and Walkington) on a £1,093,594
        interdisciplinary EPSRC grant (with STEM and business studies disciplines) exploring
        ‘Citizen Forensics’, particularly how adaptive software architectures can support the
        contextual information flow required to deliver community-police collaborations whilst
        preserving key properties such as privacy and forensic-soundness.

 Within the PHeW group:

    •   Jones is the lead researcher on the ESRC seminar series ‘Cross Disciplinary Thinking
        about ‘Antisocial Personality Disorder’’. The series aims to stimulate debate and thought,
        and to create a network that can investigate and promote cross disciplinary
        understanding of ‘Antisocial Personality Disorder’ (value: £10,004).
    •   Moller is Co-I on the £722,897 NiHR funded study ‘Before, During and After Adult
        Gender Identity Specialist Services: Improving the integration of care for trans adults’ and
        also PI on the BPS funded seminar series ‘New Frontiers of Family: The psychological
        implications of emerging family forms.’
    •   Langdridge was Co-I on a £235,561 Health Protection Scotland funded project
        investigating public health interventions for anti-microbial stewardship (2017-2018). He
        led on the development of an innovative method for the analysis of the affective content
        of public health intervention materials.
    •   Harrison and Pike have led a project investigating the wellbeing of first responders
        funded by The Royal Foundation (2019), value £30,000.

 Further funding success, following the strategy for improved bidding support and capacity
 building within the unit, includes in the 2020 period alone:

    •   Kaposi has secured an ISRF mid-career fellowship (value £48,157) on ‘Milgram and
        Beyond: Towards a Psychosocial Theory of Violence’.
    •   Curley, Havard and Pike have secured a British Academy Small Grant on super-
        recognisers (value £8,670).
    •   Crafter is Co-I on ‘NEW-ABC: Networking the educational world: Across boundaries for
        community-building’, EU Horizon 2020, (Total €3,036,657; value to OU €399,570).
    •   Frumkin is Co-I on EPSRC/SPRITE+ funded ‘Digital Technologies, Power and Control’
        (value to OU £39,688).
    •   Hegarty (started at OU Sept 2020) is Co-I on ‘G-Versity: Achieving Gender Diversity’,
        Marie Sklodowska-Curie Innovation Training Network. European Union: Horizon 2020
        (Total €4,108,233; value to OU €303,172).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 The OU operates a sophisticated research infrastructure, combining on-site laboratory facilities
 with a rich virtual research infrastructure. As detailed in the OU Institutional Environment
 Statement, the OU library is world-class, providing staff and students with access to over
 275,000 subscribed academic journals, 540 online databases, 590,000 eBooks and a vast
 selection of newspapers, images, video and sound.

 The OU also invests in and operates one of the UK’s largest open access research repositories.
 Open Research Online attracts an average of 500,000 online visitors a year from 200 countries.
 There is also a substantial volume of content, including a large amount of material from
 Psychology@OU in both the OU iTunesU site - one of the largest and most popular in the world

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 - and also OpenLearn, a public-facing open access site for (research-led and informed) learning
 materials.

 Specific infrastructure and facilities match the needs of the respective research groupings, with
 them having different needs with respect to laboratory facilities. Psychology@OU staff have full
 access to a sophisticated set of laboratory facilities, including the Jennie Lee Labs - operated by
 the Institute for Educational Technology. This offers a suite of laboratory rooms as follows:

    •   Eight bookable rooms including: accessibility lab; ambient technology lab; gaming and
        future technologies lab; human-computer interaction labs 1 and 2; observation room;
        podcast suite and reception room. Tobii eye tracker and galvanic skin response
        equipment is available to be installed in all labs.

 Every lab includes:

    •   Flood wiring with Cat 6 Networking, WiFi and power, audio and video links that go
        directly to the control room from every lab, where it can be recorded by computers into
        the Matroska (.mkv) file format. As some labs have more than one camera and one may
        wish to capture the computer screen as well, we use this format as it can bundle together
        multiple video and audio streams. We have software which can split these files so that
        we can produce video of the appropriate camera angle, audio track etc.
    •   At least one Ceiling Dome camera which can pan, tilt and zoom, a microphone and a
        computer.
    •   Multiple computers which each have specialist software and hardware that allows us to
        capture the computer's screen and record it; this can be recorded as an individual video
        stream or mixed with the room's video camera to create a picture in picture video and
        recorded to DVD.
    •   A DVD recorder linked to a monitor with touch panel controller allowing for ease of setup
        and use.

 In addition, Psychology@OU also have:

    •   A dedicated lab for computer testing with experimental software (E-Prime 3), which
        includes additional facilities for eye tracking (Tracksys Ltd system) and facial composite
        construction (EFIT 6).
    •   Mobile eye-tracking equipment: Tobii Pro 2 glasses with associated tablet, laptop and
        Tobii pro lab analyser software.
    •   An unlimited Qualtrics license enabling all Psychology@OU staff to use this web-based
        survey tool with an unlimited number of respondents.
    •   Access to Science and Technology Faculty facilities for measurement of ECG and
        galvanic skin response.

 Furthermore, as part of the capacity building that is underway to develop the Research Centre
 for Psychology@OU, development is underway for a Virtual Participant Pool to provide access
 to a very large nationally representative participant population accessed through our virtual
 systems, along with the recruitment of further specialist technical and administrative research
 support staff.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 National and international collaborations

 Researchers within this UOA are partners in a wide range of national and international
 collaborations, involving research relationships with 42 UK universities and 37 international
 universities across 19 countries. This includes active collaborations with many leading
 institutions in the UK (e.g. Glasgow; Kings, London; LSE; Manchester; Oxford; Queens, Belfast;

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strathclyde; Sussex; UCL) and internationally (e.g. Aalborg, Copenhagen, Denmark; Bologna,
 Turin and Universitá Ca’ Foscari, Italy; Cape Town, Kwa-Zulu-Natal, Free State, South Africa;
 Lausanne, Switzerland; Monash, Australia; Oslo, Norway; Tokyo, Japan). Collaborations include
 work with other psychologists and also an extensive array of academics from other disciplines.
 This work is facilitated through funding for national and international conference attendance and
 academic exchange activity and programmes, including support for visiting PG research
 students.

 Open and engaged research is central to the mission of Psychology@OU. This is supported
 through a wide variety of Faculty and Institution support, including dedicated staff at both Faculty
 and Institution level providing extensive business and third sector expertise. Selected additional
 collaborations with non-academic bodies facilitating research impact include:

    •   Pike (and team) work with 20 UK police forces through their activity (Pike, Director of
        Research) through the OU Centre for Policing Research and Learning (following an initial
        £1.4M HEFCE and Home Office investment). This collaboration has facilitated impact
        activity evidenced in the Briggs Impact Case Study, as well as extensive knowledge
        exchange opportunities for other Psychology@OU staff.
    •   Harrison works with a range of professional organisations relating to her work on mental
        health and the effects of organophosphate exposure including British Airline Pilots
        Association; Mind; National Farmers Union; UNITE. This is evidenced in the Harrison
        Impact Case Study.
    •   Capdevila is an international collaborator on the EU and Spanish Government funded
        project ‘Visibilizing and measuring the scale and scope of sexual and gender-related
        violence in universities (SeGReVUni)’.
    •   McGrath is engaged in multiple evaluation projects with NHS and community partners
        including: Creativity Enablement and Wellbeing (CREW) project with BEHMT Mental
        Health Trust and the Outsider Gallery London; RESET Drug and Alcohol service at Mile
        End Hospital; Shoreditch Trust; Sparkle and Dark Theatre Company; ‘Street Art’ project
        at Chase Farm forensic psychiatric unit.
    •   Langdridge and Moller are involved with a variety of leading charitable bodies
        concerned with LGBTQ issues including LGBT Foundation; Pink Therapy; Yorkshire
        MESMAC.

 4.2 Journal editing and membership of editorial boards

 Psychology@OU staff contribute to the discipline through considerable editorial work.
 Langdridge founded and was co-editor in chief of the journal Psychology & Sexuality (until
 2017), published by Taylor & Francis (ranked 20th Interdisciplinary Soc Sci). He is currently a
 consulting editor for The Humanistic Psychologist, published by the APA. Capdevila is editor of
 the journal Feminism & Psychology (since 2013), published by Sage. Jones is co-editor of the
 Journal of Psychosocial Studies, published by Policy Press. Andreouli and Dixon are both
 Associate Editors of the European Journal of Social Psychology, published by Wiley.

 Editorial Board Membership includes: Andreouli – Journal of Community & Applied Psychology,
 Papers on Social Representations; Capdevila – Annual Review of Critical Psychology; Crafter –
 European Journal of Psychology of Education; Dixon – British Journal of Social Psychology,
 European Journal of Social Psychology, Social Issues and Policy Review, Frontiers in
 Psychology, Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour; Langdridge – Existential Analysis,
 Harrington Park Press, Psychology & Sexuality; Mahendran – Journal of Social and Political
 Psychology; Moller – Counselling and Psychotherapy Research, Counselling Psychology
 Quarterly; Stenner - Review of General Psychology, Theory & Psychology, Qualitative Research
 in Psychology, History and Philosophy of Psychology, Philosophical and Theoretical Psychology,
 Human Affairs; Vossler – Counselling Psychology Quarterly, Forum Community Psychology.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Contributions to professional associations and grant awarding bodies

 Staff are also active in a variety of professional bodies, making significant contributions to the
 discipline. Stenner was elected President of the International Society for Theoretical Psychology
 2015-17, and President of the Association for Process Thought. Capdevila is on the Research
 Board of the BPS and is Chair of the Psychology of Women and Equalities Section of the BPS
 (2020-). She also served as co-chair (with Rhoda Unger, Brandeis University, USA) for an
 American Psychological Association (APA) Division 35 Task force on Feminist and Political
 Psychology. Hewson is working party convener and editor of BPS group producing 'Internet-
 mediated research guidelines’ (latest edition May 2017; 2020 edition in progress). Moller and
 Vossler work with the leading UK counselling body, BACP, as well as Relate and the Tavistock
 Institute. Moller was seconded as Joint Research Lead (2016-18) with BACP and Vossler sits
 on the BACP Research Committee. Moller also collaborates with a network of UK university
 counselling centres (Sheffield, Oxford, Cambridge, Keele, Birkbeck, Kings) pooling counselling
 data and setting up a nationwide datashare for research and service improvement and Vossler
 is an invited member of Relate’s Family Counselling Working Group. Moller is also UK Chapter
 President for the Society for Psychotherapy Research (since 2020). Jones is a founding
 member, Executive Committee Member, and Treasurer of the Association for Psychosocial
 Studies.

 Contributions to the research base are also made as grant panel members and reviewers.
 Jones was a member of the ESRC peer review college (2016-19) and has also reviewed for the
 British Academy and National Research Foundation of South Africa; Andreouli, Dixon,
 Harrison, Stenner, and Havard have all reviewed for the ESRC. Dixon has also reviewed for
 the British Academy, Andreouli the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation,
 Langdridge the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Langdridge
 was also an invited subject matter expert in 2019/20 for the National Institute of Health Research
 Programme (NiHR PRP) commissioning committee (Implementation and effectiveness of
 educational interventions in improving behaviour on antimicrobial stewardship).

 4.4 Other indicators of wider influence (keynotes etc)

 Staff have held key roles within learned societies and delivered keynotes in multiple countries.
 Stenner is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, Lifelong Alexander von Humbolt fellow,
 and gave the Annual Innovations in Psychology Lecture (formerly the Niels Bohr Lecture in
 Cultural Psychology), University of Aalborg, in 2019, as well as keynote addresses in the UK
 (e.g. at BPS Social Psychology Section Annual Conference, 2016), Colombia, Germany, and
 Italy during this REF period. Langdridge was keynote at the International Society for Theoretical
 Psychology Conference in 2019 in Tokyo, Japan, and gave a public lecture to the Institute for
 Civilisation Studies, Tokyo, Japan in 2015, as well as delivering other keynotes in the UK. He
 was also Honorary Professor of Psychology at Aalborg University, Denmark (until 2018) and
 Visiting Professor of Psychology at Seattle University, USA in 2014. Crafter has been a keynote
 at the Centre for Migration and Integration, Aarhus University, Denmark in 2019 and at the ‘Non-
 professional Interpreting Conference’, University of Amsterdam in 2020. Dixon gave keynotes at
 the annual conference of the Psychological Association of Australasian Social Psychologists,
 2015, and to a UKIERI funded event at Jamia Milia Islamia University, New Delhi, March 2015.
 Vossler was keynote at the 40th anniversary event of the ‘Family Counselling Services’ in
 Vienna, Austria in 2014, and keynote at the 40th anniversary event of ‘Child Guidance Centre’,
 Osterode, Germany in 2019.

 4.5 Contributions to economy and society

 Psychology@OU has world-leading strength in engagement with society and the wider economy
 through very large-scale public engagement activity allied to significant impact on professional
 practice and policy (across a number of areas). This activity provides the opportunity for
 knowledge exchange and wider engagement through national television programming and
 associated OpenLearn links, which provide more detailed information about Psychology@OU

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. This is in addition to the considerable reach of Psychology@OU research directly
 through our research-led OU teaching to just under 20,000 (19,319 registrations in 2020/21)
 highly diverse undergraduate students from across the four nations of the UK.

 Television and electronic media dissemination examples:

    •   Walkington was the academic consultant for BBC/OU productions: ‘The Detectives:
        murder on the streets’, Series 2 (2017) and Series 3 (Spring, 2020) (Avg. viewers: 8.2M,
        OpenLearn visits 24,921); ‘Catching Britain’s Killers: the crimes that changed us’
        (October 2019) (Avg. viewers: 5.06M, OpenLearn visits 9,059).
    •   Turner was the academic consultant for BBC/OU production ‘In Cold Blood: The
        Forensic Investigators’ (2018/19) (Avg. viewers: 11.9M, OpenLearn visits 56,881)
    •   Langdridge was academic consultant on the BBC/OU co-production – ‘Prejudice and
        pride: the people’s history of LGBTQ life in Britain’ (2 one-hour episodes). Broadcast
        BBC4 in 2017 (repeated in 2019 for Stonewall Anniversary) (Avg. viewers: 1.19M,
        OpenLearn visits 1,728).
    •   Havard was the academic consultant on a BBC4 TV production ‘The Parole Board’
        (being broadcast 2020/21).
    •   Walkington led the development of a suite of six films on applied cognition for the BBC
        Ideas Platform receiving 772.9K views (as at Dec 2020). Stenner was academic advisor
        on the BBC Ideas Platform short ‘Wake up! Foucault’s warning on fake news’ (85.1k
        views). Lazard and Capdevila were academic advisors on the BBC Ideas Platform short
        ‘Are you sharing too much online?’ (45.3K views). All were Public Service and Activism
        Webby award winners.
    •   Langdridge and Pike (with Thirkettle, SHU) developed the OU Brainwave app in a
        partnership with Reed Global, engaging just under 14k users with research in
        Psychology@OU (OpenLearn visits 10,590).

 Practitioner and public event examples:

    •   Pike organised the academic/practitioner conferences: Annual conference of the Society
        for Evidence Based Policing (2018); Health and Wellbeing in Policing (2018); Social
        media and policing (2018), and with Havard the Therapy in Forensic Settings: Practices
        and Challenges event in 2014.
    •   Pike has given keynotes at the annual conference of the National Working Group for
        User Insight in Policing and the annual conference of the South West Society for
        Evidence Based Policing, Exeter (both 2018). He also delivered a public lecture at the
        Bloody Scotland Crime Writing Festival (in 2016), along with more than 10 public lectures
        to sixth form students through the Crimcon and Crimiknowledge initiatives – averaging
        about 500 students per lecture.
    •   Walkington delivers regular training to the police force including: Advanced Suspect
        Interviewing course (delivered 3 times a year since 2014); Tier 3 National Counter
        Terrorism Course (2019); Counter Terrorism interviewing ‘top up’ course (2017); National
        Crime Agency interviewing training (2016); National Counter Terrorism Course
        ALCYONE (2015).
    •   Briggs was an invited speaker at the National Driver Offender Retraining Scheme
        (NDORS) annual conference in 2019. She has also been an invited speaker at the Parcel
        Carriers Association (2019), the Road Safety Wales annual conference (involving all 22
        Welsh local authorities) (2019), the National Roads Police Intelligence Forum (2019), and
        The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA) annual conference in 2017.
        Curley was an invited speaker at The Centre for Police Research and Learning (2019);
        Faculty of Advocates (2018); The University of Edinburgh (2018); Edinburgh Sceptics
        Society, the Edinburgh Science Festival (2018). Dixon was a speaker at the ESRC
        Festival of Social Science (2015) on the psychology of prejudice. Moller has been an
        invited speaker at the Health and Wellbeing at Work event in 2019 on the NICE
        guidelines for depression, and at the Donor Conception Network conference in 2017.

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   McGrath was co-author on an article ‘Electroconvulsive Therapy for Depression: A
        Review of the Quality of ECT versus Sham ECT Trials and Meta-Analyses’ in 2020,
        which has received considerable national media attention and has now led to a review of
        ECT use by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE).

 Policy engagement activity examples:

    •   Andreouli was invited to present on group cohesion at an All-Party Parliamentary Group
        on Counter-Extremism, 2018.
    •   Briggs has given evidence to a Transport Select Committee consultation on driver
        distraction, 2019.
    •   Harrison presented her work on organophosphates at the Houses of Parliament (2014),
        and presented at a knowledge-exchange event on ‘super-recognisers’ attended by
        academics and senior police officers.
    •   Lazard spoke on ‘Effecting positive change in climates of uncertainty’ in the House of
        Commons, Westminster in 2018, and has been undertaking action research projects and
        advising the House of Commons since that date on issues relating to sexual harassment
        and positive working relationships.
    •   Walkington produced an invited report which evaluates the National Training for Counter
        Terrorism Interviewers (2020). The report makes recommendations of how to improve
        the current training provision for the National Cadre of interviewers employed in Policing
        as well as individuals from DoD, FBI and CIA and some military personnel, and will
        therefore impact on CTU training both nationally and in the USA.




                                                                                          Page 16
