Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 1 (Clinical Medicine)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Overview: Context and Structure
         The overarching aim of UCL’s research in Clinical Medicine is to address major challenges
to human health and thereby increase global well-being and prosperity. The 393 staff (344.18FTE)
in this unit of assessment (UoA) engage in basic, clinical and translational research, lead large-
scale multi-centre clinical trials, and lead or participate in interdisciplinary national and international
collaborative networks with external partners in academia, the NHS, and industry, in four major
areas: (1) Cancer, (2) Infection, Immunity & Inflammation; (3) Child Health; and (4) Experimental
Medicine, encompassing organ-specific disciplines and cross-cutting themes. Staff are located in
UCL’s Faculty of Medical Sciences (FMS) and Faculty of Population and Health Sciences (FPHS),
two of four faculties comprising UCL’s School of Life and Medical Sciences (SLMS).
         Strong links between UoA1 and our partner NHS Trusts are catalysed by two NIHR
Biomedical Research Centres (BRC), an Academic Health Sciences Centre (AHSC), and by a
larger federated health science network, UCL Partners (UCLP). The wider context for this
submission is the co-location and close collaboration or integration of participating units with a
major concentration of world-leading biomedical research, including: a major Cancer Research UK
(CRUK) Centre; the Institute of Clinical Trials and Methodology (ICTM) incorporating the UCL MRC
Clinical Trials Unit and CRUK and UCL Clinical Trials Centre; the Wellcome/EPSRC Centre for
Interventional and Surgical Sciences (WEISS); the Institute of Orthopaedic and Musculoskeletal
Science (IOMS); the Institute of Immunity and Transplantation (IIT); the Wolfson Drug Discovery
Unit; the London Centre for Nanotechnology; the Francis Crick (Crick), Farr and Alan Turing
institutes; the Institute of Sport Exercise and Health (ISEH); as well as a new £1BN Google
headquarters development, where we are the key translational research partner in clinical
medicine.
         The vitality, future sustainability and strength in depth of the world-leading research in this
submission are enabled by an environment which allows the full realisation of our researchers’
potential. This is achieved by creating and sustaining a physical environment and research culture
which foster and actively promote interdisciplinarity, collaboration, enterprise, impact for society
and the economy, the development of early scientific careers, and equality, diversity and inclusion
in everything we do, exemplified by:

       A vibrant, positive Open Science research culture embedding the principles of equality,
        diversity and inclusion, indicated by 2 gold, 5 silver, and 1 bronze Athena SWAN (AS)
        awards to UoA1 Divisions and Institutes.
       Outstanding new facilities and infrastructure, supported by ambitious new institutional
        and external investment for buildings and refurbishments greater than £217M, including the
        PEARS Building for the IIT, and the Zayed Centre for Research into Rare Disease in
        Children.
       Growth in quality and impact of research: Since 2014, >14,700 peer-reviewed
        publications were authored by UoA1 staff, receiving >409,700 citations, including 901
        highly cited articles (in the top 1% for citations in their field), and an overall Category
        Normalized Citation Impact of 2.72 (i.e. almost 3x the world average). Papers published by
        UoA1 staff ranked No.1 overall in the NIHR/RAND analysis (2015) of highly cited
        publications in clinical science for UK, and all of our research themes ranked in the top 3,
        closely aligned with areas of clinical excellence in our partner NHS trusts. UCL ranked in
        the top 4 of world-leading universities in preclinical/clinical/health sciences (2015). Ten staff
        in this UoA (Attard, Yellon, Swanton, Zumla, Herrero, McGranahan, Cross, Peggs,
        Quezada, Moon) are Clarivate Highly Cited Researchers producing multiple highly-cited
        papers that rank in the top 1% by citations for field and year.
       Research income with >£850M research funding awarded in grants, and £777M research
        expenditure, equating to £322,521 spent per FTE per annum.


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      World-leading researchers: In this submission, since 2014, staff have been awarded 72
       prestigious fellowships and personal awards, there were 93 newly promoted Chairs and 49
       new recruits at Senior Lecturer level or above.
      Major external collaborations: >60% of UoA1 research outputs involved international
       collaborations, and staff in this UoA lead or participate in many major national and
       international collaborative networks and consortia.
      Investment in research training: Vibrant doctoral training programmes producing the next
       generation of biomedical research leaders, awarding 144 Doctoral Degrees annually,
       including a Wellcome Clinical Research PhD programme and the largest NIHR Academic
       Clinical Fellowship and Clinical Lectureship programme in England and Wales.
      Research with Impact: UoA1 is submitting 13 Impact case studies demonstrating major
       improvements in the diagnosis, management and treatment of human diseases, and
       significant benefits for society and the economy, reflecting major UCL investment in clinical
       trials, translational research, enterprise and interdisciplinarity. Since 2014, UoA1
       researchers have attracted external private sector investment in spin-out companies of >
       £900M that collectively employ more than 1000 people. Since March 2020, UoA1 staff have
       made leading contributions in the fight against COVID-19 (described in 4.2.2).

        UoA1 comprises seven units (Divisions & Institutes): the Cancer Institute (CI, Director
Enver); the Division of Infection and Immunity (I&I; Director Morris); the UCL Great Ormond
Street Institute of Child Health (GOS ICH; Director Smyth); the Division of Medicine (DoM;
Director Kleta); the Division of Surgery and Interventional Sciences (DSIS; Director Mudera);
the Institute of Cardiovascular Science (ICS; Director Hingorani); and The UCL EGA Institute
for Women’s Health (IfWH; Director David).
        Research in these units is closely integrated and aligned with our partner NHS Trusts:
University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (UCLH); the Royal Free London NHS
Foundation Trust (RFL); Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Foundation Trust
(GOSH); Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Trust (RNOH); and Whittington Hospital NHS
Trust. These partnerships are underpinned by two Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) awards,
representing the largest single investment in biomedical research by the NIHR: the UCL/UCLH
BRC, (£111M, >10% greater than 2008-13), and the BRC in Child Health to GOS ICH (£37M,
increased 5.7% compared with 2008-13).

1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
   Our mission is to advance understanding of human disease from the molecule to the patient,
and through the rapid translation of this knowledge, to achieve maximum benefit for patients,
society and the economy. Our strategy for achieving this is based on the following core principles:

      Investment in people and infrastructure
      Promoting diversity
      Fostering interdisciplinarity and partnership
      Supporting translational research
      Creating a pro-enterprise culture

The key mechanisms for realising our strategic research and impact goals are:

Establishing Major Research Centres supported by new infrastructure and large-scale funding,
led by world-leading researchers. In this REF period, UoA1 units have established the Zayed
Centre for Research into Rare Disease in Children (illustrated in Figure 1), created the WEISS
Centre for Interventional and Surgical Sciences, renewed the CRUK major centre in Cancer
Research, completed construction of the PEARS building for the Institute of Immunity and
Transplantation (Figure 1), and delivered the Africa Health Research Institute (AHRI) (see 3.2).




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 1. Major Infrastructural Investment in UoA1. Left: The Zayed Centre for Research into
Rare Disease in Children adjacent to GOS ICH (Photograph credit to Stanton
Williams|Photography: Hufton + Crow). Right: the PEARS Building (opening 2021) for the IIT – the
façade opposite Royal Free Hospital (top), and the main atrium (bottom).

Creating High-quality Translational Research Enabling Platforms: The potential of higher-
throughput technologies linked to patient data and informatics for transforming drug/therapy
discovery is being realized through public, private, and social enterprise partnerships to de-risk
early-stage drug candidates. Essential to this is our creation of cross-cutting platforms, with
embedded research-led disruptive innovation to stay ahead of the curve and drive clinical
translation. These include: extensive genomics, proteomics and metabolomics facilities; a
Therapeutic Innovation Network with world-leading expertise in translational cell and gene
therapies, small molecules and biologics; a Healthcare Engineering & Imaging theme advancing
clinical applications of engineering, nanotechnology, advanced imaging and computation, and
repurposing existing therapies; all in strategic partnership with industry (see 1.3).

Interdisciplinarity: This REF period has seen a sustained drive to increase our interdisciplinarity
by planned co-location of diverse disciplines as an integral component of major infrastructural
investment, e.g. engineering, imaging, bioinformatics, computational medicine and biomedical
research in facilities with a common purpose, including the WEISS Centre, the Zayed Centre and
the PEARS building. Organisational change has also fostered interdisciplinarity: the restructuring of
GOS ICH focused on priority areas critically dependent on interdisciplinarity (see 1.4.3); in Surgery
and Interventional Sciences, 3 of the 4 prioritised themes are inherently cross-disciplinary, Energy
and Tissue (UoA1) and two are in UoA12, (Materials and Tissue, and Nanotechnology).
Interdisciplinarity has been further facilitated through engagement with Academic Health
Partnerships and with UCL Research Domains by seeding pilot projects, fostering and enhancing
awareness of opportunities for interdisciplinary working.
        Conditions of UCL’s capital investment funding for equipment are inter-faculty involvement
and multi-user capacity to promote interdisciplinarity; >£2M has been disbursed to such initiatives
                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in UoA1, including multi-user two-photon imaging, Biobank support, and pre-clinical PET-MRI. The
BRCs have invested in facilities specifically for interdisciplinary working, including clinical PET-MRI
(£1.1M), a research 3T MRI system (£1.1M), and a radiopharmaceutical GMP laboratory (£2.52M).
         In a survey of UoA1 staff, 68% of respondents conducted interdisciplinary research, and
33% (283 of 860) of our submitted outputs comprised interdisciplinary research. In REF2021, 53
staff in UoA1 Divisions and Institutes were returned in other UoAs (Biosciences, Engineering,
Chemistry, Population and Health Sciences). UoA1 hosts or its staff participate in 15
interdisciplinary PhD programmes (see 2.B.3), and students in UoA1 units undertaking PhDs
outside traditional biomedical disciplines increased from 19.5% of entrants in 2013 to 28.7% of
2019 entrants.
         The investment in interdisciplinarity in UoA1 underpins the excellence and impact of our
research exemplified in several of our impact case studies: world-leading immunologists
collaborating with innovators in manufacture of advanced therapies (“Next-generation
programmed T cell therapies for cancer treatment…” and “Development of novel therapies for
inborn errors of immunity in children and adults…”), surgeons and clinicians working with medical
physicists (“Transforming the diagnostic pathway for men at risk of prostate cancer by the
introduction of magnetic resonance imaging” and “Transforming the diagnosis and treatment of
ATTR amyloidosis…”). Interdisciplinarity also greatly enhances our agility, an outstanding example
of which is the extraordinary partnership between intensive care clinician scientists and engineers
resulting in development of a breathing aid for COVID-19 patients from concept to manufacture of
a clinical device within a few days, forming another of our impact case studies (“UCL-Ventura
CPAP breathing aids for COVID-19 patients…”).

Career Development and investment in people: To build capacity, resilience and sustainability
in our environment, we established the BRC Experimental Medicine Academy to create the next
generation of translational researchers equipped with the knowledge and skill set to realise impact
for patients. Our submission hosts a Wellcome Clinical PhD programme and the largest NIHR
Academic Clinical Fellowship and Clinical Lectureship programme in England and Wales,
supported by investment in an Academic Careers Office (ACO) delivering nationally recognised
innovation in training. Joint studentships supported by our interdisciplinary PhD programmes, in
areas outside the biomedical sciences (e.g. engineering, physics, mathematics, computer and data
sciences), and partnered with the local Crick, Farr and Turing institutes, enhance the potential to
transform medicine; specific funding streams also target investment in early career researchers,
such as the UCL Excellence Fellowships and the Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund
(WISSF) (see 2.A and 2.B).

Advancing Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: The 7 units in this submission hold 2 Gold, 5 Silver
and 1 Bronze Athena SWAN awards. We encourage career development and leadership
opportunities for women in science: 3 of the 7 UoA1 units are led by women, whereas only one
was in REF2014; 4 out of 10 of our BRC research theme Directors are women; 5 years ago, none
were led by women (see 2.C for our EDI activity).

Collaboration and Extending Our Global reach: UCL has International Strategic Academic
Partnerships in biomedicine with Yale, Utrecht Medical Centre, Peking University, a Drug
Discovery/ Pharmaceutical sciences alliance with University of North Carolina, the AHRI with the
Malawian and South African Health Services and Governments, and is founding partner in the
International Precision Child Health Partners (IPCHiP) with Melbourne, Boston and Toronto. UoA1
staff lead many international collaborations, including the CRUK-funded International Alliance for
Cancer Early Detection, major international multi-centre Clinical Trials (e.g. PROMIS, Re-
IMAGINE, STAMPEDE) and EU collaborative programmes through our success in the EU Horizon
2020 grants: UCL is the top University in Europe for Horizon 2020 projects, with 115 health
projects valued at £55M, 55 of which are led or partnered by UoA1 researchers (see 4.1).

Empowering Translational Research, Enterprise, and Innovation: Our research’s impact on
society and the economy has been maximized through investment in facilitation of translational
research and enterprise, central to which are UCL’s Translational Research Office (TRO), the
BRCs and AHSC, and UCL Business (UCLB). This structure has energized translational research

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and fostered a vibrant enterprise culture within this submission that empowers collaboration
between academics and private capital.
         Engagement of UoA1 staff with the TRO has, since 2014, resulted in 16 MRC
Developmental Pathway Funding Scheme (DPFS) awards worth £23.3M, and 41 smaller proof-of-
concept translational awards, including MRC Confidence-in-Concept, BRC and Therapeutic
Acceleration Support grants, worth >£4.5M to UoA1 staff. The TRO also facilitates large-scale
clinical studies in collaboration with industrial or biotech partners such as the £56M SUMMIT trial
with Grail Inc (led by Janes). Overall, from 2013 to 2019, 48% (41 of 85) of large translational
projects managed by the TRO were led by UoA1 staff, supported by >£63.3M translational funding
(of £129.6M total). The success of our translational pipeline is instanced by development of a
Novel Liver Dialysis Device to extend the life of patients with acute-on-chronic liver failure (led by
Jalan), which was highlighted as an exemplar of successful translational research in the 2019
evaluation report of MRC-funded translational research; the dialysis device has been
commercialised through UCLB, with the formation of the spin-out company Yaqrit and a €6.4M
European Union Horizon 2020 award to run a Phase IIb clinical trial from 2017.
         The BRC has galvanized major cultural change in the UCLH/UCL partnership towards
celebrating and rewarding enterprise and innovation. The AHSC has created a Translational
Research and Enterprise Accelerator with expertise in each step of the translational process,
marshalling milestone-driven early phase projects via coordinated project-specific teams, with early
phase regulatory and industry partnership, trial design, technology transfer and investment
expertise – demystifying the process for discovery scientists and increasing their engagement in
clinical translation.
         Enterprise in UoA1 has been catalyzed by two UCLB-led UCL technology funds, the Apollo
and UCL Technology Fund (£100M) which pump prime and de-risk new start-ups. Partnership
with UCLB generated 6 spin-out companies based on UCL-led research in UoA1 which have
raised >£900M in private investment, including Orchard Therapeutics (gene therapy for childhood
diseases), Autolus (cancer T-cell immunotherapeutics), Achilles Therapeutics (therapies targeted
at tumour neo-antigens), Freeline Therapeutics (therapies for haemophilias), and Quell
Therapeutics (engineered T-cells), several underpinning our impact case studies (see 4.2.2).
         Our graduate start-up companies supported through UCL BaseKX have attracted more
external investment than ever before (£60M in 2018/19). Several of these are supporting
disadvantaged people: for example, ‘In2ScienceUK’ gives low-income young people a chance at
science careers and Kalgera helps safeguard the finances of vulnerable adults.
         UoA1 researchers have also established major strategic partnerships with industry,
including leadership of the £16M MRC/GSK EMINENT programme and a recent GSK commitment
to establish a new Respiratory Innovation Hub at UCLH/UCL (£2M p.a.), a new BMS cancer
immunotherapy hub, and partnerships with UK Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult, Stevenage
Bioscience Catalyst and with General Electric, Philips and Siemens in advanced imaging.

NHS Engagement: Key to realising the health and societal impacts of our research is engagement
with our NHS partners to rapidly translate research into patient benefit through major clinical trials,
leveraging NIHR BRC funding to deliver value for money and amplify the scale of this activity. This
engagement is central to several Impact Case Studies in UoA1, including “Development and
Implementation of the first treatments for Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Spinal Muscular
Atrophy”, “Advancing availability of curative surgery to children with refractory focal epilepsy”,
“Transforming breast cancer patient care with a novel single-dose intraoperative radiotherapy
(TARGIT-IORT)…”, “Transforming national and international clinical practice in the treatment of
resistant hypertension”, and “Improving the identification and treatment of patients with familial
hypercholesterolaemia (FH) through the establishment of a DNA diagnostic service…”. The two
BRCs in this submission use proof-of-concept funding to de-risk early innovation and increase the
confidence of commercial partners and major funders. The success of this strategy was evidenced
in 2016 by: a dramatic increase in patients in phase-I/II trials (+300%) since 2012; a doubling in our
managed translational research portfolio, attracting £72M external investment in 2016 versus £18M
in 2012, with a portfolio containing 10 times more projects in or on the cusp of clinical translation
than in 2012; securing 25% of MRC DPFS awards nationally for translation of UCL research, often
in partnership with industry; UCL top European University for health research awards in first 2
years of European Horizon 2020 grants. The UCL/UCLH BRC is set to leverage over £600M

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
during the current BRC term (2017-2022), equivalent to £8 research income for every £1 of BRC
investment.
        Conduct of large-scale, complex clinical trials has been accelerated through co-working of
our investigators with the UCL Institute for Clinical Trials and Methodology (ICTM). The ICTM is a
centre of excellence for clinical trials, meta-analysis and epidemiological studies, with a focus on
methodological innovation to add clinical and research value to trials such as adaptive trial
designs, and multi-arm-multi-stage platform trials led by UoA1 staff (e.g. Attard, Emberton) (see
4.2.2).

Engagement with UCL’s infrastructure for Maximising Societal and Economic Impact: Our
research’s societal and economic impacts are amplified through strategies for enterprise, public
engagement, patient involvement in research, and extending the global reach of our research
especially in low and middle income countries, all enabled via engagement of our researchers with
the REF Impact Team, UCL’s Social Policy Unit, UCL Innovation and UCL Enterprise, UCL Grand
Challenges, UCL Consultants (UCLC), UCLB, the Academic Health Partnerships (AHPs), AHSCs,
UCL Global Engagement Fund, UCL Public Engagement, and UCL Culture. Our impact case
studies have been developed in close partnership with the REF Impact Team, and facilitated by
AHPs, and, as mentioned above, in partnership with UCLB, UCLC and UCL Innovation and
Enterprise. Innovation and impact were additionally accelerated through grants to UoA1
researchers totalling £1.39M for 51 projects from Higher Education Innovation Fund and BBSRC
and EPSRC Impact Acceleration Awards.

Public and Community Engagement: To realise research impact and ensure its relevance for the
public and our communities, UoA1 researchers work closely with the three Public Engagement
(PE) Managers assigned to SLMS in the UCL Engagement & UCLH/UCL Joint Research Office
(JRO) Public and Patient Involvement (PPI) Team. The UCLH/UCL BRC, and the GOSH/GOS ICH
BRC, employ a Head of PPI & Communications and a PPI Manager who work closely with their
counterparts in the UCLH/UCL JRO. The SLMS PE Manager supports PPI through funding rounds,
networking opportunities, expert advice, training and reward and recognition. We have created a
SLMS Community of Engagers, a network to share skills, experiences, resources and knowledge
in PPI and PE. The network hosts termly events for peer support and sharing case studies, and a
monthly newsletter to ~100 people in UCL who lead on PPI/PE activity is shared with their
networks. During the REF2021 period, the JRO PPI team has trained 156 people (projected ~350
by end 2020), funded 15 projects through grant schemes of £10,500 (projected ~£22,500 by end
2020), and supported 42 individual researchers/projects in their PPI/PE activities (projected ~100
by end 2020). Since August 2013, co-working between UoA1 staff and the UCLH/UCL JRO PPI
Team has resulted in nominations for 26 PE awards, receipt of 3 PE awards, support and advice to
95 staff and students, and funding for 12 projects through grant schemes offered by UCL
Engagement and UCLH/UCL’s JRO PPI Team. This includes: Beacon Bursaries awards for “a
focus for family participation: CAR T cell games that start a conversation” and “Engaging young
people with chronic rheumatic conditions in research development and communicating their ideas
through digital media”; a Focus on the Positive award for “Knowledge is power: increasing
understanding of science in the over-65s”; as well as Train and Engage, Step Out, Innovation Seed
Funding, and Fellowship awards. UoA1 units won three UCL Provost’s Awards for PE in 2015-17
(an Early Career award, a Professional Services award and a Student award). Training was also
provided to 6 UoA1 staff by the UCL Centre for Co-production, and 31 UoA1 staff attended
bespoke training workshops delivered by the Engagement team in 2016-19.

Open Science, Research reproducibility and Integrity: UCL’s commitment to research
transparency and integrity are underpinned by its policies described in REF5a. All research In
UoA1 is conducted in accordance with UCL’s Statement on Research Integrity (encompassing the
principles of the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity), UCL’s Code of Conduct for
Research, and its Statement on Transparency in Research, including the responsible use of
metrics for Open Research, aligned with UCL’s commitment to the San Francisco Declaration on
Research Assessment (DORA). UCL is a founding member of the UK Reproducibility Network.
This framework informed preparation of all aspects of this submission.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        An open research environment in UoA1 has been advanced by creating resources and
procedures for implementation of open access compliance in all participating units, including
allocation of administrative staff time and staff training in open access to make all publications
available in UCL Discovery (described in REF5a). Overall compliance with open access policy of
all publications in UoA1 units is >85%, and >97.5% of the 860 publications submitted in UoA1 are
compliant. Our commitment to open research is exemplified by the launch in 2018 of a new
platform, UCL Child Health Open Research, through collaboration between GOS ICH with F1000,
enabling rapid, author-led publication and open peer review of any research focusing on child
health. Data sharing initiatives have extended open access in other areas, e.g. GOS ICH’s
collaboration with GOSH’s Digital Research, Informatics and Virtual Environment (DRIVE), using
EPIC software, to make patient data available, and DECOVID, a repository (with UCLH, University
Hospitals Birmingham, and University of Birmingham) of electronic health records for COVID-19
hospitalised patients.
        Our staff have substantially contributed to research reproducibility, integrity and
transparency: 125 staff in UoA1 (33%) published papers that reproduce key findings in their field;
87 (23%) published articles or promoted research reproducibility by defining guidelines or setting
standards for research procedures or analyses; 141 staff (37%) made research data, software, or
code available using open source sharing platforms; and 67 staff (17.5%) contributed to best
reporting practices e.g. pre-registration, full design and analysis reporting (such as STAR
methods).

1.3 Development of our Research Environment since REF2014
         Since REF2014, major growth and development in UoA1 has occurred within all research
themes: Cancer (Major CRUK Centre Award, Proton Beam Therapy Centre opening 2021);
Infection, Immunity & Inflammation (PEARS building, establishment of the Africa Health Research
Institute); Child Health (new 5 year academic strategy, and opening of the Zayed Centre); and
Experimental Medicine (newly refurbished Charles Bell House, facilities for rehabilitation science at
the RNOH, laboratories for Respiratory Medicine, and a phenotyping suite for Cardiovascular
Science). Specific major investments are described in section 3.
         Reorganisation has been driven by a focus on major areas of research strength, and
enhancing opportunities for interdisciplinary synergy between researchers: in GOS ICH, a major
review resulted in a new strategy and research organisation aligned with future strategic research
priorities; in Experimental Medicine, clinical and pre-clinical imaging groups were combined in a
single Research Department, and the Institute for Cardiovascular Science was reconfigured in
2017 into four research departments (see 1.4).
         Recognising that investment in early career staff is essential for the sustainability and
vitality of our research, since REF2014 there has been a more strategic emphasis on developing a
positive research environment, particularly for early career researchers, and a culture that fully and
proactively promotes the principles of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), exemplified by our
success in Athena SWAN awards, and by initiatives to embed awareness of and training in the full
range of issues relevant to EDI (described in 2.C).
         Increased emphasis in REF2021 on maximising the impact of our research on society and
the economy is exemplified by the award in 2016 of the NIHR BRCs to UCL/UCLH and
GOSH/GOS ICH. Renewal and uplift of our BRC funding reflects our world-leading excellence in
Cancer, in Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, and in Child Health, and also funded 2 new BRC
themes within UoA1 in NIHR "highlighted areas", where the UCLH/UCL partnership is
internationally leading, recognizing our developing strengths in these disciplines: Cardiovascular
Diseases in which we are developing novel imaging and biomarkers for improved detection of
cardiovascular disease and treatment stratification, a genetics-based drug target validation
database, and new prosthetic heart valve and vascular grafts; and Obesity, linking one of the UK's
largest adolescent and adult specialist obesity centres, to UCL physiological and behavioural
sciences to understand and better stratify novel treatments for obesity.
         Integral to our research strategy and the renewal of BRCs has been creation of 6 cross-
cutting themes, comprising coordinated research enabling platforms, and providing multiple points
of synergistic interaction with our major research themes:



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Therapeutic Innovation Network (TIN): This research platform, coordinating world class
strengths in Gene, Cell and Regenerative therapies, with the Drug Discovery Institute, UCL School
of Pharmacy (in UoA3) and the Stevenage Bioscience Catalyst, enables development of innovative
therapeutics and drug/therapy repurposing across the research themes.
Healthcare Engineering & Imaging: This aligns the UCL Institute of Health Care Engineering,
UCLH Clinical Imaging, UCL Centre for Medical Imaging Computation and Centre for Advanced
Biomedical (preclinical) Imaging – all internationally leading - within a single coordinated theme.
Healthcare Informatics, Genomics/omics, Data Science (HiGODS): This platform brings
together UCL strengths in health informatics and the UCL Farr Institute, UCL Computer Science,
Institute for Digital Health and genomics and -omics resources, linked to our extensive patient and
population cohorts. Most researchers associated with this platform are in UoA2.
Translational Research & Enterprise Accelerator (TREACC): A platform which coordinates our
expertise in experimental medicine project management, governance, regulatory support,
technology transfer and commercialization, to steer and accelerate therapeutic innovation and
translation.
Education and training: The BRC Experimental Medicine Academy, realizing a strategic goal
from REF2014, aims to build capacity and resilience in experimental medicine, fostering
collaborations beyond traditional medicine and life sciences boundaries and with national institutes
and industry, and developing future leaders.
Patient & Public Involvement and Engagement: A dedicated unit to ensure our research is
relevant, and public/patient facing.

1.4 Research Objectives in the current assessment period
Below in 1.4.1 to 1.4.4 are described the research strategies for each of the major research themes
in this submission.

1.4.1 Cancer
        The mission of the UCL Cancer Institute (CI) together with cancer research groups in the
Divisions of Medicine and Surgery, and in the Institute for Women’s Health, is to improve patient
outcome in cancer, and to educate and generate the next generation of world leaders in cancer
research. To fulfil these ambitious goals, UCL cancer research spans discovery biology and proof
of concept work to preclinical development, integrated with early and late phase clinical trial
capacity, harnessing the multidisciplinary opportunities provided within the multi-faculty structure of
UCL, and the close integration between researchers and front-line clinicians. More than half the
teams in UCL’s Cancer Institute are clinician-led.
        Cancer is a prioritised research theme within UCL’s SLMS, and operates within a network
of partner organisations including UCLP, the UCL/UCLH and GOSH/GOS ICH BRCs, and our
partner NHS Foundation Trusts. The Cancer theme in the UCL/UCLH BRC focuses on precision
medicine, closely aligned with strategic focuses in UCL’s cancer research programme, specifically:
proton beam therapy and precision guided surgery; understanding tumour heterogeneity to
develop better targeted therapies; and developing and delivering a pipeline of novel cellular cancer
immunotherapies.

Major Research Groupings
        Developments in the current REF period have made UCL a powerhouse of cancer
research, recognised nationally and internationally for the excellence, impact and innovation of its
research. Areas of strength are cancer cell biology (inflammation, mechanism of cell cycle
control, stem cell biology, metastasis, genome regulation and stability), translational oncology
(world leading expertise in development of advanced therapies involving engineered T cells and
antibody based medicines, radiation oncology), molecular pathology (cancer genomics and
evolution, and advanced cancer imaging, particularly in lung, sarcoma, thoracic, gastrointestinal
and haematological cancers), and cancer clinical trials, working closely with ICTM to innovate
and increase the international impact of our cancer trial activity, and pivotal in enabling UCL’s
strategy of bench to bedside translation of science discoveries.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Key recruits and appointments
        Major new recruitments in Cancer since REF2014 include Vanhaesebroeck to develop our
expertise in cancer signalling and translational drug development, Parrinello (Neuro-Oncology)
aligned with our efforts to develop new understanding of brain cancer, Attard (Medical Oncology),
Ng (Imaging lead NCITA). Fisher was appointed to build capacity in cancer computational biology.
Sharma (now Honorary) was appointed to build critical mass in radiation oncology, and Maria
Hawkins (Engineering, returned in UoA12) was recruited to a Chair in Radiation Oncology in 2019,
with close links with the CI (visitor status and lab space), specifically to support expansion of our
research programme for radio-oncology ahead of the Proton Beam Therapy Centre opening in
2021. Several earlier career staff have established their research independence, including
appointments for McGranahan, Vladimirou (Senior Research Associates), Tape and Barber
(Principal Research Fellows), Jansen and Pillay (Clinical Professorial Research Fellows), Herrero
(Professorial Research Associate), Jamal-Hanjani and Hiley (Senior clinical lecturer / clinical
consultants).

1.4.2 Infection, Immunity, Inflammation

      Research in this theme is undertaken in UCL’s Division of Infection and Immunity (I&I),
comprising the IIT, the Research Department of Infection, and the AHRI, and in the Division of
Medicine. Its mission is to understand the molecular basis of immunity and infection, to identify the
causes of infectious and immunological diseases at population level, and to rapidly translate this
knowledge into benefit for patients and populations in the UK and globally.
        The UCL/UCLH BRC Inflammation, Immunity and Immunotherapeutics theme (BRC
Theme Director, Morris) is also a prioritised research theme within UCL, focusing on improving
outcomes for patients with serious progressive diseases associated with dysregulated immunity,
inflammation and fibrosis; identifying therapeutic targets; developing novel serum/tissue and
imaging biomarkers; and delivering novel anti-fibrotics and immunomodulatory agents. BRC
funding has provided infrastructure and personnel support for the development of the Pathogen
Genomics Unit (Directed by Breuer), recently relocated to the Zayed Centre (see 1.4.3 below). In
addition, the BRC supports Bioaid, an experimental medicine initiative to archive host and
pathogen material from patients presenting with fever, which has led to a major collaboration with
the Wellcome Sanger Institute. The BRC has invested in infrastructure and personnel to support
the development of gene therapy approaches to treating immunodeficiencies and haematological
cancers. The future vitality, growth and sustainability of this research theme has been secured with
completion of the £60M PEARS building to house an expanded IIT (started 2018, led by Stauss)
opening in Q2 2021, realising a major strategic goal of REF2014 (Figure 1).

Major Research Groupings
        Major research groups and areas of excellence in this theme are: Immunobiology,
including basic research on T cell and B cell function, novel B & T cell subsets, and mechanism of
T cell senescence in ageing humans; Translational immunology and immunotherapeutics,
Including preclinical T cell engineering research for landmark gene therapy trials, and a major area
of synergy between immunology, cancer and child health; Immunodeficiency, embracing
genetic screening of families using single nucleotide polymorphisms to reveal susceptibility genes
for fungal infection, hyper IgE syndrome, early onset inflammatory bowel disease and certain
autoimmune conditions; Epidemiology of infection, including next generation pathogen
sequencing as a powerful tool to reveal the mechanisms of drug resistance, and tracking the origin
and epidemiology of virus outbreaks; Host-pathogen interactions focusing on mechanistic cell
biology and genetic approaches to identify new molecular targets to prevent HIV entry and
infection; Rheumatology, hosting the largest Rheumatology groups in the UK, with particular
expertise in SLE, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Anti-Phospholipid Antibody Syndrome and Scleroderma.
Rheumatology at UCL has established a worldwide reputation for pioneering B cell depletion to
treat patients with rheumatoid arthritis (Rituximab), systemic lupus erythematosis (including
childhood onset SLE), myositis and vasculitis; The Centre for Amyloidosis & Acute Phase
Proteins (incorporating the UCL Wolfson Drug Discovery Unit and NHS National Amyloidosis
Centre) is world leading in translational amyloidosis research; Innate immunity research,
spanning the innate responses to infection and tissue injury.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Key recruits and appointments
Strategically important recruits to this theme since August 2013 include Reeves (Associate
Professor), to strengthen our critical mass in Virology, Seddon (Professor of Immune Cell
Homeostasis) appointed to develop our expertise in immune cell homeostasis, and Heyderman
(Professor of Infectious Diseases and International Health) and N’dungu (Professor of Infectious
Diseases ) who have jointly developed our strengths in analysis and treatment of global infectious
diseases. Jolly (Associate Professor) and McCoy (MRC Research Fellow) have enhanced our
excellence in understanding fundamental mechanisms underlying HIV function, while Leslie
(Wellcome Senior Research Fellow) increases our capacity to investigate the pathogenesis of
tuberculosis.

1.4.3 Child Health
         UCL’s GOS ICH (so renamed in 2016 to reflect its close partnership with GOSH) is the
largest children’s research institute in Europe, and undertakes fundamental, translational and
clinical research across the whole spectrum of childhood health and disease. On publication
metrics, it is consistently in the top three Child Health research institutes in the world. The mission
of GOS ICH is to improve the health and wellbeing of children and the adults they will become,
through world-class research, education and public engagement. In 2014, GOS ICH launched a
five-year academic strategy, a key aim of REF2014, underpinned by the principles of:

   Interdisciplinarity
   Developing Academic Leaders
   Accelerating Translation
   National and international partnership and leadership

This strategy was refreshed in 2019 to strengthen the partnership with GOSH, and include new
strategic initiatives in stem cell biology, data science (UoA2) and global health (UoA2).
        GOS ICH Departments align closely with GOSH BRC vertical themes of Gene, Stem and
Cellular Therapies (led by Thrasher), Genomics and Systems Medicine (led by Chitty), Novel
Therapies and their Translation into Childhood Diseases (led by Muntoni) and Advanced
Treatments for Structural Malformation and Tissue Damage (led by Sowden). Ahead of the
anticipated GOSH BRC renewal application in 2021, the BRC leadership is working with GOS ICH
to ensure that its refreshed strategy enhances BRC renewal. With Goldblatt, GOSH Director of
Research and Innovation, Smyth and colleagues have developed a strategy for GOSH to become
a “Research Hospital”, in which “research” is a key strategic pillar of the hospital, all children
treated by GOSH have the opportunity to become research participants, and delivery of high-
quality research is a fundamental priority for those responsible for delivery of clinical care. Opening
of the Zayed Centre for Research into Rare Disease in Children in 2019 is a striking affirmation of
this research-driven vision for GOS ICH and GOSH, and greatly enhances the capacity of research
at GOS ICH to stay at the forefront internationally, and progress its innovative treatments for
childhood diseases.

Major Research Groupings
        The new strategy created five research and teaching departments, four in UoA1:
Developmental Biology and Cancer focussed on Developmental Biology, Stem Cells and
Cancer, Birth Defects Research, Childhood Cancer, and Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine;
Developmental Neurosciences, which investigates cell and molecular mechanisms underlying
processes in neurological diseases, rapidly translates research to diagnose and adopt
individualised therapies for childhood neurological disease, and progresses biomarker
development for monitoring of response to interventions; Infection, Immunity and Inflammation
with research programmes in the molecular basis of immunological and inflammatory disease,
microbial genetics and host response to challenge, development of disease prevention strategies
through diagnosis in early childhood and vaccination strategies, world-leading translational
research in immunological and inflammatory diseases using novel biologic agents, and cell and
gene therapies; and Genetics and Genomic Medicine with emphases on the Molecular Basis of

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Rare Diseases, ciliopathies, Inherited Disorders of Metabolism, and Genome Biology and
Personalised Medicine; co-location in the Zayed Centre of UCL Pathogen Genomics (led by
Breuer) and UCL Genomics (led by Castellano) strategically enhanced our research capability in
genomic sequencing, and facilitated UCL’s leadership in the COVID-19 pandemic through its role
in mapping spread of SARS-CoV-2 variants (see 4.2.2). Population, Policy and Practice is
returned in UoA2.

Key recruits and appointments
       Since 2014, GOS ICH has appointed 30 new academic staff in UoA1 (11 lecturers, 11
Associate Professors and 8 Professors), including Voit, recruited from Sorbonne, Paris as
GOSH/GOS ICH BRC Director, Hargrave, Clinical Professor of Paediatric Neuro-oncology,
Livesey, Wellcome Senior Investigator and Professor of Stem Cell Biology, and Elvassore,
Professorial Research Associate in Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, the latter two
appointments aligned with our new strategic Initiative in stem cell biology.

1.4.3 Experimental Medicine
        Experimental Medicine incorporates research from the Divisions of Medicine and Surgery
and Interventional Sciences, the Institute of Cardiovascular Science and the Institute for Women’s
Health, which focuses on specific organ systems, together with major cross-disciplinary research
themes including biomedical imaging, novel surgical approaches to the treatment of human
disease, and large-scale clinical trials.
        Research described in this section is closely aligned and integrated with the NIHR-
UCL/UCLH BRC. Williams led the successful UCL/UCLH BRC re-bid of £111.5M and is its
Director. The Cardiovascular Diseases Theme component of the bid doubled from £5M to £10M
compared with the previous BRC and Hingorani (UoA2) leads this theme with Elliott, Rakhit,
Hughes, Muthurangu, Williams and Manisty theme board members. Batterham is the Director
of the new Obesity Theme in the current UCL/UCLH BRC, and her research has strong research
links with the Cardiovascular Diseases Theme. The Research Departments of Liver & Digestive
Health, Respiratory Medicine, and Renal Medicine are all major stakeholders and beneficiaries of
the Inflammation, Immunity and Immunotherapeutics BRC Theme, through support for clinical
academics and competitive BRC research funding awarded to their staff.
        The Healthcare Engineering and Imaging Theme is a “horizontal” theme within the
UCL/UCLH BRC, interacting extensively with UoA1 researchers in Cancer, Infection, Immunity,
and Inflammation, Respiratory, Liver and Digestive Health, and Surgery and Interventional
Sciences; to facilitate these interactions, Punwani is BRC Director of Clinical Imaging, co-funded
by the Healthcare Engineering and Imaging and Cancer BRC themes.

Major research groupings
The Institute for Liver and Digestive Health performs basic, clinical and translational research
on liver disease, particularly viral hepatitis, liver fibrosis, portal hypertension, liver failure and liver
transplantation.
Renal Medicine is one of the largest centres for kidney disease research in the UK, closely
integrated with the clinical department providing renal services to North and Central London; it is
one of the most active clinical trial units with high rates of trial recruitment.
Respiratory Medicine spans clinical and laboratory research with a focus on lung fibrosis/ injury,
Infection, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) and its genetic causes (alpha-1
antitrypsin deficiency), and lung cancer (within the Cancer theme).
Intensive Care Medicine located in the Bloomsbury Institute for Intensive Care Medicine (Directed
by Singer) undertakes basic and translational research, informatics studies and clinical trials in
critical illness, internationally leading expertise that underpinned Singer’s co-development of new
breathing aids for COVID-19 patients.
Obesity Research investigates the pathophysiology of obesity and type 2 diabetes in order to
identify new prevention and therapeutic strategies, particularly gut hormones as tractable
therapeutic strategies for obesity and type 2 diabetes, and improving the health outcomes of
bariatric surgery.



                                                                                                   Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cardiovascular Science is conducted by staff in the Institute of Cardiovascular Science, and the
Divisions of Medicine and Surgery, with major focuses on: basic research into cardiovascular
development, function and pathologies; population science and experimental medicine, studying
factors leading to human cardiometabolic disease and ageing (some staff returned in UoA2), and
housing major cohorts including the Southall and Brent revisited study and the MRC 1946 birth
cohort as part of the MRC Unit of Lifelong Health and Ageing, clinical research into heart muscle
disease and arrhythmias, novel approaches to cardiac imaging based on MRI, and machine
learning; and Children’s Cardiovascular Disease, forming one of the largest paediatric
cardiovascular groups in the world, collaborating and co-located with staff in GOS ICH.
Biomedical Imaging. The Department of Imaging comprises The Centre for Advanced Biomedical
Imaging (Director, Lythgoe); the Institute of Nuclear Medicine (Director, Groves); and the Centre
for Medical Imaging (Director, Halligan). The Department performs medical and pre-clinical
imaging research across multiple scales and technologies, and its researchers collaborate closely
with staff across UoA1, and in Physics, Engineering and Computing in the WEISS centre and
elsewhere.
Surgery and Interventional Sciences based on the Bloomsbury, Royal Free and
Stanmore/RNOH campuses, embraces a comprehensive approach to surgery and perioperative
medicine with a strong emphasis on technological innovation and multidisciplinary working, with
strengths in urology, perioperative medicine, tissue engineering, nanomedicine and surgical
theranostics, biomaterials for surgical reconstruction and regeneration, and orthopaedic and
musculoskeletal science, centred on new approaches and platforms for post-surgical rehabilitation
and implant science. It also hosts the Institute of Sport Exercise and Health, a partnership with the
British Olympic Association, the English Institute of Sport, the WEISS Centre and IOMS.
Women’s Health: Research in this area is conducted by researchers in the UCL EGA Institute for
Women’s Health (IfWH). Major research focuses are: the impact of hypoxia and inflammation on
brain development in utero and in the early neonatal period, leading to a pipeline of
neuroprotective agents for early phase trials; and development of gene therapy for a variety of
pregnancy conditions, including the potential for in utero cure of congenital disorders.

Key recruits and appointments
        Respiratory Medicine has been strengthened by appointment of 4 new professorial staff
through promotion (Porter, Hurst, Lipman) and external recruitment of Sattelle (from Oxford), and
2 new intermediate-level clinician scientists (Jacob & Navani from Cambridge). Beale is a joint
Crick/UCL appointment in renal science. In Cardiovascular Science, McGregor was appointed
Professorial Research Associate, Manisty Clinical Senior Lecturer in Cardiac MRI and Heart
Failure, Patel and Treibel won BHF Intermediate Clinical Research Fellowships, Captur was
promoted to Senior Clinical Lecturer. In IfWH, Guillot, and Siassakos were recruited to strengthen
Maternal and Fetal medicine, Teschendorff was jointly appointed to IfWH and CI in Women’s
Cancer, Hall and Gurtin joined research groups in Reproductive Health; and Clark and Madsen
have strengthened Neonatology.

1.5 Research objectives for next 5 years
1.5.1 Achievement of REF2014 goals
        Much of what was planned in REF2014 has been delivered and is presented in 1.1 to 1.4
above, and summarized here. The aspiration for an electronic health record system with research
capability for patient stratification in trials and data-mining facilities linked to UCL e-health initiatives
is embodied in the Healthcare Informatics, Genomics/omics, Data Science (HiGODS) cross-cutting
theme in our UCL/UCLH NIHR-BRC renewal. This is a collaboration between UCLP (including the
Farr Institute), the Crick, the Wellcome Sanger Institute and the European Bioinformatics Institute,
with the aim to develop an eMedLab integrating genomic, imaging and clinical data for population
health research, and to stratify patients for clinical trials. Another key cross-cutting platform in the
UCL/UCLH NIHR-BRC is the BRC Experimental Medicine Academy, fulfilling our plan in REF2014
for a Research Training Academy.
        In cancer, there have been major developments in cancer biology and genomics resulting
in landmark discoveries in cancer heterogeneity and genomics. These are the subject of one of the
highest profile collaborations between UCL and the Crick Institute (Swanton, Quezada,

                                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
McGranahan) and have created a major new spin-out company (Achilles Therapeutics). There has
been a step change in development of gene therapy, immunotherapy and stem cell transplantation
approaches to cancer with world-leading progress in chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered
lymphocytes and vector design (Pule, Peggs), and development of CAR-T gene transfer attracting
large-scale private investment (Autolus). The KCL/UCL Comprehensive Cancer Imaging Centre,
funded by CRUK and the EPSRC, was established to develop imaging, combined with
clinicopathological assessment, genomics and in-house optical proteomics, for elucidation of the
molecular and physiological processes of cancer, and has led to the new National Cancer Imaging
Translational Accelerator (see 3.1.4). The high energy Proton Beam Therapy Centre, opening in
2021 (£125M; 8000m2), will vitalise radio-oncology research and personalized medicine in this
area. Plans in REF2014 for development of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation have
crystallised with the PEARS Building (opening in 2021), and delivery of the AHRI. In Child Health,
a new academic strategy has been implemented in GOS ICH. The Zayed Centre for Research into
Rare Disease in Children opened in 2019, greatly expanding research space and facilities for its
programmes. The Versus Arthritis Adolescent Rheumatology Centre funding was renewed with
opening of new laboratories. In Experimental Medicine, the new GMP radiopharmaceutical
laboratory opened in 2015, funded by BRC and UCL; a fully refurbished Charles Bell House
opened in 2016 housing the WEISS Centre, and a hub and major expansion of facilities tailored for
interdisciplinary working. New facilities for rehabilitation science have been established in
Stanmore RNOH, and a floor of new laboratory and office space has invigorated development of
Respiratory Medicine.

1.5.2 Research Plans for next 5 years
         A central strategic goal in the next 5 years will be renewal of our UCLH/UCL and
GOSH/GOS ICH BRC funding, building on the achievements presented above and developing
new, strategically important, areas of translational research as outlined below.
         In cancer, the aim is to understand, detect and treat cancer by coordinating strategic
priorities across the BRCs, Academic Health Science Centres and Networks, promoting cross-
disciplinarity, and progressively expanding partnerships and delivering our comprehensive
networks. Early detection of cancer (particularly lung) will be accelerated by the International
Alliance for Cancer Early Detection (ACED) of which UCL is a leading member. This is a unique,
researcher-led, collaboration supporting early detection research and enabling early detection
leaders to accelerate progress in this area. Acceleration of new cancer therapies, particularly
immunotherapeutics, will be greatly enhanced by building a new centre integrating immunotherapy
translational research with state-of-the-art bioincubator facilities, co-located with the Cancer
Institute (CI) on the Bloomsbury Campus. A site for this development with a suitable footprint has
been identified in Mortimer Market and provisionally approved by UCLH, contiguous with the
Macmillan Cancer Hospital and 2 minutes’ walk from the CI.
         Opening of the Proton Beam Therapy Centre in 2021 together with strategic recruitment in
radio-oncology will provide a major clinical resource to invigorate research into radiotherapy, and
improve outcomes in and personalise radiotherapy for tumours of major unmet clinical need,
including lung cancer and glioblastoma. Work on paediatric cancer will be expanded with the
strategic aim of developing precision medicine approaches by defining unique disease-linked
susceptibilities through partnership with GOSH and UCLH’s Paediatric Cancer Centre of
Excellence, building on clinical opportunities provided by the new Proton Beam Therapy Centre.
Key to achieving these goals will be development of leaders in cancer research detection and
treatment through a multidisciplinary collaborative training programme. Strategic recruitment will
develop our critical mass in basic cancer research, including a new Associate Professor in
Haematology focused on fundamental stem cell science, and a new post in molecular mechanisms
of T-Cell immunosuppression.
       In Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, planned major new recruitment to the expanded
IIT in the PEARS Building from 2021 will develop critical mass in basic and translational
immunological research, and accelerate translation of stem cell transplantation and gene therapies
for diseases of immunodeficiency. The PEARS building will catalyse synergies and collaborations
between UCL researchers in immunology, through co-location of researchers currently on
geographically disparate sites (Bloomsbury and the Royal Free), and by providing outstanding

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research facilities. Existing UCL research groups will occupy 75% of the new space, and 25% is
dedicated to recruitment of established and future world leaders, key to establishing the IIT as an
international centre of excellence. Renewal of Wellcome funding for AHRI in 2021 will drive new
treatments for infectious diseases in developing and low-income countries. An Infection Research
Institute (IRI) will be established by co-locating infection and microbiology research to newly
refurbished space, provisionally identified within the Cruciform Building (Bloomsbury campus),
concomitant with the move of the DRI Interim Hub to its new home in Gray’s Inn Road (estimated
2023). This plan has been approved by UCL and underwritten by a firm UCL institutional
commitment.
       In Child Health, the new Zayed Centre provides major new research capacity and facilities,
including a good manufacturing practice (GMP) suite that, together with new recruitment, will
underpin basic research to drive understanding of mechanisms underlying rare childhood disease
and accelerate translation of our research in novel gene-based and cell-based therapies for
childhood diseases. Researchers in the Zayed Centre will use the unique GOSH DRIVE platform
to integrate rich health data with data science and digital innovation, to develop scalable solutions
to enhance child health care across the NHS and globally. DRIVE integrates closely with the
Health Data Research UK London Hub (hosted in UCL), which will provide linkage of genetic and
clinical data with routine health and education records (currently data from 9 million children in the
UK). Collaboration with other world-leading children’s centres through the IPCHiP partnership on
phenotypic and genomic data from children with rare diseases will enable gene discovery and
understanding of mechanisms of disease.
         A strategic goal of Experimental Medicine is to expand capacity in cross-cutting
translational imaging platforms and clinical trial activity through: development of the UCL/UCLH
Imaging Trials Unit (led by Punwani), including appointment of a leading medical statistician to the
Department of Imaging in late 2019 (Mallett), to develop statistical methods applied to diagnostic
test accuracy and prognosis in imaging studies; building our capacity in hyperpolarised MRI for
renal, breast, brain, and pancreatic cancers; and installation of an experimental clinical MRI (led by
Lythgoe, Punwani) to fast-track clinical translation of novel imaging techniques, further supported
by new senior academic recruitment in preclinical imaging. Capacity building in artificial Intelligence
will also be a key strategic priority for imaging research. The Royal Free Masterplan is an
ambitious scheme jointly between UCL and the Royal Free NHS Trust, which aims to transform
this site into a research-oriented hospital and UCL biomedical research institute complex. The
PEARS building is the first phase in realisation of this ambition, with future prioritised projects
including reorganisation of research in Surgery and Interventional Sciences, part of which is
establishment of the Charles Wolfson Centre for Reconstructive Surgery, a £1.4M project to bring
together innovative surgical techniques and recent research to accelerate research translation for
patient benefit and train future generations of surgeons and research leaders. Planned relocations
to the Royal Free Campus of biomaterials and microbiology research from the Eastman Dental
Institute and biomaterials research from the RNOH in Stanmore will boost critical mass in these
areas, and will be supported by creation of a new >100m2 imaging suite. Cardiovascular Science
will further consolidate its estate and co-locate staff at a Cardiovascular Hub in Bloomsbury, and
use its BHF accelerator award in Cardiovascular Science Data, renewal of the BHF 4-year PhD
Programme (successful late 2020) and the UCL-wide Cardiovascular Network to develop
Cardiovascular Science throughout UCL.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
2.A Staffing strategy and staff development
       All UoA1 units are committed to securing the vitality and future sustainability of our
research environment through staff development and recruitment. Our environment encourages
and supports the development of an international research profile characterized by research
excellence and contributions to research impact, through mentoring and staff training and
development, and an emphasis on nurturing these characteristics through procedures for staff
appraisal, promotions, and appointments.

2.A1.1 Support for staff development
        As described below, units in UoA1 actively implement the “Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers” (https://bit.ly/3mixAze) at all career stages through appraisal,
probation and promotion schemes, mentoring, networking, training, succession planning, and by
developing leadership that reinforces our commitment to the Concordat.
Appraisal and promotion: All staff are appraised annually within the UCL Appraisal, Review and
Development scheme, by their Head of Department or manager, in order to set research and
training goals, and plan for progression and promotion. Annual appraisal rates in UoA1 averaged
78% in 2018-19.
        UoA1 staff eligible for senior promotions (academic and research) are annually reviewed by
committees prior to the promotions round and ‘promotion mentors’ within UoA1 provide support
and advice for staff nominated for promotion. Since 1st August 2013, the numbers of staff being
promoted to Senior Lecturer, Reader (Associate Professor since 2018), and Professor across this
submission were, respectively, 11, 40, and 93 during this REF period. In addition, 19 UoA1 staff
were promoted to Principal Research Associate or Fellow, and 8 to Professorial Research
Associate or Fellow.
Mentoring: All UoA1 units have established mentoring and staff development schemes within this
REF period, particularly for junior staff. Such schemes for PhD students, post-doctoral and early
career staff are integral to Athena SWAN (AS) programmes established within all our units. To
develop staff and facilitate the transition to research independence, or other career paths, all units
run bespoke schemes at local level to identify staff with potential for securing fellowships or other
research grants, particularly early career staff, and to support them from pre-application to post-
application and interview stage. This provides oversight of applications by committees with suitable
expertise, pre-submission application review, and mock interviews. During the current REF period,
>200 staff in UoA1 units have received bespoke mentorship in these schemes, contributing to
success in 72 fellowship applications.
Networking: SLMS-wide Research Domains and Early Career Networks organise many talks
about diverse career paths and provide opportunities for junior researchers to interact with senior
ones. Units in UoA1 offer further opportunities for networking from visits of international speakers,
international meetings and symposia held in UCL, and dedicated career workshops. Many units
have also established bespoke networking groups. The ICS Research and Academic Networking
Group (RANG) brings together junior staff to support early career researchers to collaborate across
UCL, and acquire the skills, knowledge and experience needed to further their careers within UCL
and beyond. The UCL Cancer Domain supports an Early Careers Network, and the CI created a
postdoctoral association to encourage visibility, leadership and networking, with monthly social
events and a postdoc retreat. The Division of Medicine’s early career researcher group organises
lectures and workshops, with talks by representatives from industry and inspirational role models
on career development.
Training: All staff have protected time to complete 10 days per year of skills training, and are
mandated to participate in diverse training schemes, which play important roles in skills
enhancement and preparing them for future careers as independent researchers or alternative
career paths (eg scientific publishing, industry). Courses in fair recruitment and PhD supervisor
training are compulsory for staff involved in recruitment or PhD supervision. In addition to UCL-run
courses, all units in this submission have local initiatives. For example, the CI engages its staff in
external courses such as EMBO Laboratory Leadership.
        UoA1 staff (Sharma & Montgomery) advise UCL’s Academic Careers Office (ACO), which
supports academic and clinical academic researchers in SLMS. Funding for training schemes
                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
obtained through the ACO provide skills training for clinically trained and non-clinical academics,
including MRC Skills Development Fellowships, the Wellcome Clinical PhD Programme, the NIHR
Integrated Academic Training Programme (largest in the UK), and the UCLH BRC Education
Academy. The ACO trained 2,417 UoA1 researchers during this REF period, increasing from 132
in 2014-15 to 1,085 in 2019-20, and generated £4.5M in research training grants for UoA1
researchers in 2017-20 alone.
Leadership: An important part of staff development is preparation for leadership roles. The
Divisions and Institutes in this submission annually review the needs of staff at all academic grades
for leadership training, and nominate staff for UCL’s Leadership enhancement programmes. During
the current REF period, 81 staff in this submission have been on leadership programmes,
including the Future Leaders Programme (50% female participation), a nine-month training
programme to train potential Heads of Department, and UCL’s Women and Senior Women in
Leadership Programmes.
Succession planning: Appraisal and promotion plays a key role in succession planning. All UoA1
Division and Institute Directors lead on succession planning for leadership roles, while Faculty
Deans lead on appointment of Division and Institute Directors. In both cases, new appointments
are made following open advertisement and extensive staff consultation, and for more senior
appointments this has involved extended searches for suitable internal and external candidates.
Examples of succession planning in UoA1 include appointment of the new Heads of Haematology
in the CI (Peggs appointed 2019), of Infection and Immunity (Morris, 2019), Medicine (Kleta,
2018), IfWH (David, 2017). Staff in protected groups are actively encouraged to apply for
leadership positions. In several units (e.g. DoM, GOS ICH), a policy of appointing Deputy Heads of
Research Department has been instituted both to provide leadership development opportunities
and to facilitate succession planning.
Support for Early Career Researchers (ECR): All UoA1 units have ECR development
programmes embedded in their AS schemes, aligned with the professional development
programme for ECR staff run by UCL’s HR Organisational Development team
(https://bit.ly/3a879dc). Central UCL funding provides hypothecated support for ECRs. During the
REF period, researcher-led initiative awards were obtained by 2 ECRs in UoA1 for attendance of
professional career development meetings, and UCL’s Grand Challenges Doctoral Small Grants
with a combined value of £55,187 were awarded to 18 UoA1 ECRs. 42 ECRs are returned in this
submission.
         Key to diversifying the skills portfolio of ECRs are opportunities for training in teaching. The
UCL Arena fellowship scheme (accredited by the Higher Education Academy (HEA)) provides
education training at different levels. Since 2014, 102 staff in UoA1 units have been awarded
Associate Fellowships, and 90 staff obtained Fellowships, Senior Fellowships or Principal
Fellowships of the HEA. Many workshops and talks raise awareness of alternative career paths.
For example, UoA1 AS schemes run regular half-day workshops on diverse career paths for
researchers, including transitioning to independent academic and non-academic career pathways,
teaching, scientific publishing, careers in industry, or with research funding agencies, and hosting
events as part of UCL’s 'Careers in Research Week’.

2.A1.2 Recruitment and retention
        Our recruitment strategy comprises two main components. First, new UCL-funded
positions, aligned with strategic research or educational initiatives, enable recruitment of
outstanding staff in open competition. Secondly, we retain as many of our ECRs as possible via
fellowships, to enhance their development and the vitality of larger research groupings. This
strategy resulted in recruitment of 70 new researchers in this submission, including 49 at senior
lecturer level or above. Supporting fair recruitment based on EDI principles is central to our
recruitment processes, and is described in section 2.C.
        Institutional resources, including generous start-up funds, have supported fellowship
recipients and recruitment as an integral part of investing in the people underpinning both the
excellence of our research environment, and our research strategy. Since 2014, UoA1 units have
supported several new posts with recruitment packages, examples of which include: 7 professorial
posts, including Chairs in Medical Oncology, Neuro-oncology and Computational Biology, and 6
senior research posts in the CI; a Chair of Stem Cell Biology, with a large group in the Zayed
Centre; a senior clinical research-track appointment in the Division of Medicine including 2 post-

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
docs and an MBPhD student; a Chair in immunology in the Division of Infection and Immunity with
a studentship and research expenses; a new Lecturer in Maternal and Foetal Medicine in IfWH;
and 7 academic recruits to DSIS with fully-funded PhD studentships. Particularly for new ECRs,
care is taken to limit teaching and tutorial loads during probation. ECR staff in UoA1 also received
£153,023 from the Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support funding (WISSF) for Fellowship
Extensions and other support at crucial career transition points. The ablest of our researchers
move on to more senior fellowships and UCL-funded posts, with proleptic appointments supporting
retention. For example, 3 prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships were awarded to UoA1
staff since their launch in 2018, with substantial UoA support including tapered salary, commitment
to an open-ended position at the end of the fellowship, and appropriate research infrastructure.
         Our environment also promotes job security for research staff. Since 2014, 25 UoA1 staff
have moved from time-limited research contracts to tenured academic posts. Substantial sums
were spent on retention packages for UoA1 staff in the REF period as salary uplifts or funds for
equipment or infrastructure. For example, since 2014, UCL has committed >£2.24M to secure
retention of key staff in this submission, including packages allowing 4 staff to progress to tenured
associate professor or professorial positions, and to make proleptic appointments with tapered
salary contributions for others. The Faculties comprising this submission have harmonised annual
rewards processes (https://bit.ly/3nmjGxI) to recognise exceptional performance for staff at all
grades in the form of honoraria or bonuses. In all UoA1 units, rewards committees are widely
advertised and all eligible staff reviewed by Divisional and Institute leaderships and encouraged to
apply. As mentioned above, staff eligible for senior promotion are reviewed annually and
‘promotion mentors’ provide them with support and advice.

2.A1.3 Integration between clinical and basic scientists
       UoA1 staff comprise a close to 50:50 mix of clinicians and basic scientists (47/53% in
REF2014). Employment contracts and annual monitoring schemes ensure that clinically active staff
have sufficient time to devote to research, and that their different activities and duties are
appropriately balanced. Integration of clinical and non-clinical scientists is enabled by their working
alongside each other in shared lab space, close collaboration in consortia and other grants, and
frequent opportunities for interaction through research away days, seminar programmes, lab
meetings, and networking events. In addition, during the REF period, 1165 clinicians had Honorary
appointments in UoA1 Divisions and Institutes, they collaborated extensively with UoA1 staff, and
made major contributions to grant funding, published research, and staff training.

2.B Research Students
2.B.1 Research students
       1010 doctoral degrees were awarded in UoA1 in the current REF period, a significant
increase from the 688 awarded in REF2014, and 1287 PhD students enrolled in this submission
between 2013 and 2019. The PhD completion rate for students supervised by UoA1 staff is 78.6%
for 2013 entrants.

2.B.2 Recruitment
        Recruitment to PhD training in UoA1 has been strong, due to the excellent reputation of
UCL coupled with the active engagement of staff with other HEIs, third sector organisations and
industry. 41 MSc/MRes courses, with 983 enrolled students in 2019/2020, provide a vibrant
programme of postgraduate research training and strong recruitment to PhD programmes.
Students on MSc/MRes courses spend at least four out of 12 months exclusively on a research
project, and graduate well prepared for PhD or research posts. Our success is also attributable to
our support schemes for prospective fellowship candidates, which has been essential in increasing
the number of MRC Clinical Training Fellowships, a scheme in which this UoA has maintained a
high success rate. Our studentships and clinical training fellowships have been funded through
MRC, BBSRC, BHF, Wellcome, CRUK and Versus Arthritis. In addition, units in this submission
have been awarded studentships through UCL’s Impact Studentship scheme, which involve
collaborations with industry or third sector organisations, with UCL providing 50% of the funding,

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and £60,987 was awarded through the UCL SLMS Grand Challenges scheme for UoA1
studentships co-funded by UCL and the BRC. We have been successful in obtaining 23 CASE
awards in collaboration with industry. Our approach to recruitment takes full account of those with
protected characteristics. All interviewers undertake UCL’s Fair Recruitment training, and we
monitor recruitment of students with protected characteristics. In 2019/2020, student postgraduate
research student recruitment in UoA1 included 60.9% women, 43.5% identifying as ‘non-white’,
and 7.6% with a disability, compared with 53.9%, 41.2%, and 3.2%, respectively, in 2013/2014.
These data show that our recruitment policies are encouraging more students with protected
characteristics to undertake their research degrees in UoA1 units.

2.B.3 PhD Programmes
       Central to improving the quality of doctoral training is increased student enrolment in well-
resourced 4 year PhD programmes, supported by the Academic Careers Office (see 2.A1.1), all
incorporating mentorship schemes, cohort-building activities, and specifically addressing equality
and diversity, and mental health issues. Programmes hosted by our submission include:
     A Wellcome Clinical PhD programme (Directors Lomas (UoA1), Rees (UoA4); £6.5M) that
       has enrolled 33 students since 2014 (18 supervised in UoA1).
     The largest NIHR Academic Clinical Fellowship and Clinical Lectureship programme in
       England and Wales.
     Funding from CRUK Centre and Network awards and the BRC Cancer Theme supports a
       four-year PhD programme (clinical and nonclinical) which has enrolled 26 PhD students
       since 2014.
     The UCL MBPhD Programme, run by the Division of Medicine, is one of only two such
       programmes in the UK, enrolling 21 students in the REF period. The programme provides
       future clinical academics with training in clinical medicine and biomedical research by
       integrating a PhD within their basic clinical MB course. MBPhDs are undertaken at UCL or
       the Crick Institute, and are funded through the Programme itself or by the Crick, supported
       by scholarships via the UCL MRC Doctoral Training Programme, UCL/UCLH BRC, the
       Rosetrees Trust, The Astor Foundation and the International Journal for Experimental
       Pathology, and through Charitable MBPhD schemes (e.g. BHF).
     The UCL EPSRC-funded Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) Programme in Medical and
       Biomedical Imaging (renewed in 2013; £5.6M) is co-hosted by Centres for Advanced
       Biomedical Imaging (co-director Lythgoe 2013-19), and Medical Imaging (Plumb cancer
       theme lead). This CDT provides a comprehensive and integrative four-year PhD
       programme in imaging science, preparing students for successful careers in academia,
       industry and healthcare, with expertise in imaging science, computation, mathematics and
       their application and translation to clinical solutions and market impact.
     The Wellcome PhD Programme in Stem Cell and Developmental Biology (co-led by Copp)
       is in its fifth year, with the first year’s students all graduated.
     The Oliver Bird four-year PhD Programme has funded PhD students in two cohorts and
       nine have graduated, six of whom are in post-doctoral positions (including a winner of the
       prestigious 2013 Garrod Prize from the British Society For Rheumatology), one is in
       industry, and one works for the European Medicines Agency.
     The BHF four-year PhD programme, first awarded in 2009 and renewed in 2016 and again
       in 2020, is run by ICS (Director Muthurangu, theme leads Pineda-Torra, Schievano) and
       has provided 4 PhD places each year across units in this submission (ICS, DoM), as well
       as UoA2 and UoA4.
     The Bench to Bedside PhD Programme in Infection, a four-year MRC-funded PhD
       programme, has been developed to combine research training in cutting edge biomedical
       science with an opportunity to experience the clinical context of the research.
     UCL-ADLQ PhD programme co-led by DoM, is a non-residential programme with the Anti-
       doping Lab in Doha Qatar (ALDQ).

       Staff in this submission play leadership roles in other PhD Programmes: Stuckey is UCL
representative on the BBSRC LIDo Doctoral Training Programme’s Students and Research
Committee; Punwani is PI for the National Cancer Imaging Translational Accelerator and under

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
this aegis is developing a training and network infrastructure across its partner institutions . UoA1
staff are also supervisors in cross-faculty UCL PhD programmes including:
     The UKRI-funded UCL Centre for Doctoral Training in AI-enabled Healthcare Systems (led
        by Rees, UoA4), which involves the UCL/UCLH and GOSH/ICH NIHR BRCs.
     The EPSRC CDT in Advanced Therapeutics and Nanomedicines, a collaboration between
        the University of Nottingham's School of Pharmacy and UCL’s School of Pharmacy and
        industry partners including Alliance Boots, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, and GlaxoSmithKline.
     the 4-year Wellcome PhD programme in Optical Biology at UCL (Alexandre, Fassatti,
        Ferretti, Grove, MacRobert, Parrinello, Sowden).

2.B.4 Sustainable doctoral training
          Our processes ensure that our doctoral training is effective and sustainable, supporting
students throughout their training. All UoA1 Divisions/Institutes have a team of Graduate Tutors
responsible for ensuring fair and equitable student recruitment, appropriate supervision and
progress from MPhil to PhD registration and thesis submission. Graduate Tutors advise students
on access to additional resources necessary for their work and provide support when they are in
difficulties. All students are allocated to an experienced principal supervisor with a named
secondary supervisor. PhD supervision courses are mandatory for all supervisors, and prior
experience as a subsidiary supervisor is an additional requirement for primary supervisors. In
2014-2019, 377 staff in UoA1 units completed introductory courses on research supervision, and
98 staff returned in this submission undertook advanced courses. To support part-time PhD
students, graduate tutors ensure that student work plans allow time and facilities for their doctoral
studies, ensuring they are not disadvantaged by competing responsibilities.
          Training, mentoring, and pastoral support are integral to all PhD programmes. PhD
students in this submission are assigned personal tutors and mentors, and meetings with the
personal tutor and mentor, together with regular faculty and Division or Institute communications,
promotes involvement of students in UCL training and support, e.g. Doctoral Skills Development
Programme, UCL Volunteering Services Unit, UCL Student Support and Wellbeing, and UCL
Student Mediators. Directors, administrators and supervisors of PhDs and PhD programmes
monitor mental health issues identified early in PhDs through regular progress and pastoral
supervisor meetings. A SLMS working group on the PGR experience recommended institution of
PhD Thesis Committees to oversee the progress of PhD students, which were implemented for all
UoA1 PhD students from 2019.
          Student progress is monitored through UCL’s on-line Research Student Log. Students
submit six-monthly reports (plus one at month three) for discussion and approval by the
supervisory team, documenting academic progression and skills development training. The Log
records review meetings, important milestones such as the MPhil to PhD upgrade, and discussions
on research and training. Thesis upgrade seminars and examinations are organized by local
graduate administrators within the first 12-18 months of PhDs, and are used by Graduate Tutors to
evaluate progress of the cohort. Statistics for MPhil to PhD upgrade and submission rates within
four years (six for part time students) are reported annually to the Research Degrees Committee
and reviewed by Departments for action where appropriate.
          Our students are strongly encouraged to participate in the UCL Doctoral School's Skills
Development Programme, and the Doctoral School annual Research Poster Competition. Courses
deliver the full range of skills defined by the Researcher Development Framework, and in UoA1,
during the REF period, 89 PGR students received public engagement training (in 2018-20 alone),
92 completed Entrepreneurship training for doctoral students (2019-20 alone), 403 completed
gateway Arena training leading (optionally) to an application to become an Associate Fellow of the
HEA. In 2017-19 alone, 8 received Grand Challenges Doctoral Students’ Small Grants totalling
£60,987. Rapid growth in the role of UCL’s Academic Careers Office in PhD student training is
described in 2.A1.1 above.
          The COVID-19 pandemic and the temporary closure of non-COVID-related research
laboratories created major challenges for doctoral researchers. To support all PhD students, UCL
rapidly implemented measures to ensure continuity of supervision, support, training, and funding
throughout the period of lab closure and beyond, including: (i) Provision of 200 free places for
SysMic online bespoke training for Biomedical PhD students in Computing and Statistical methods,

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including artificial intelligence; (ii) the UCL Stipend Extension Scheme (SES) supported final-year
funded students in submitting their doctoral thesis on time, by underwriting funding at the minimum
London UKRI stipend rate for up to 3 months and allowing Departments and Supervisors to top-up
stipend extensions from their own sources.

2.B.5 Integration into research culture
         Doctoral students are integral to our research culture and environment. Most are involved in
collaborative, often interdisciplinary, projects, and all are affiliated with research groups in UoA1,
attending research planning meetings, research group meetings, contributing to research articles,
presenting their work and attending conferences. Specific mechanisms further ensure integration
of students into the research culture and to prepare them for future careers, including PhD seminar
programmes, and participation in research retreats.
         A PhD cohort culture is created in UoA1 by establishing regular PhD student-centred
events combining research presentations with social and networking opportunities. PhD
programmes (see 2.B.3) hold social activities throughout the year including welcome events for
new students in September, an MBPhD symposium in January and regular journal clubs (with
breakfast). Pizza events are organised as are joint meetings with the French and other European
MBPhD students. The Division of Medicine revamped its seminar programme to create a monthly
event for PhD students combining several talks followed by a social event. Larger annual PhD
days are opportunities to showcase PhD research by oral or poster presentations. Keynote
speakers are invited, and prizes awarded for the best student presentations. UoA1 Division and
Institute annual research retreats include sessions dedicated to PhD presentations. FMS and
FPHS run annual Dean’s Prize Events for research students and 3 minute-Thesis competitions,
and students are encouraged to give presentations at national and international research
conferences. Typically, students present at one or two national and one overseas conference
during their training, supported by funds from the Doctoral School, PhD Programmes, and
individual research groups.

2.B.6 Future careers of research students
        The employment prospects and next destinations for our PhD students are enhanced in
several ways. UCL’s careers service offers specialised services including employer-led
programmes; organises employers’ forums with PhD recruiters, an internship scheme for research
students, one-on-one advice sessions particularly for ECRs by dedicated staff with research
experience; and facilitates secondments of research students and ECRs to external organisations.
PhD programmes in UoA1 (see 2.B.3) have career-oriented training and events embedded in their
programmes, and all UoA1 units and their AS schemes run programmes of events and workshops
on future careers. Appraisals also focus on future career aspirations and training required. A
Graduate Outcomes Survey of PhD students in UoA1 (those completing in 2017/2018) to
determine next destinations produced a 63.8% response rate, and showed that 88.7% of
respondents obtained highly-skilled graduate-level employment after their doctoral research, with a
median salary of ~£40,000 per annum 15 months after obtaining their PhDs. Of the remainder,
7.2% went on to further study (this may include medical students completing their basic training),
and only 1% of respondents were unemployed after completing their PhDs. These data indicate
that our post-graduate training produces PhD students in UoA1 with a high level of skilled
employability.


2.C Equality & Diversity
        Creation of an equal, inclusive and diverse environment, and raising awareness of these
issues, are key priorities for UoA1 units, and significant progress in this area since REF2014 is
presented below.
        Supporting fair recruitment is central to our mission of increasing diversity, and a centrally
supported programme provides Fair Recruitment Specialists to assist with this. In the current REF
period, 51% of all applicants for positions in UoA1 at grade 7 and above (post-doctoral and higher)
were female, 54% of shortlisted applicants and 56% of appointments were female. Black, Asian


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Minority Ethnic (BAME) individuals were 45%, 34%, and 28% of applicants, shortlisted and
appointments, respectively, and disabled applicants, 2%, 3%, and 3%. These data indicate that
while our recruitment processes do not disadvantage women and disabled applicants, a concerted
future effort is needed to remove any existing barriers to increasing our diversity in recruiting from
BAME groups.
         Athena SWAN (AS) Self-Assessment Teams have been established in all units of this
submission and are the main advocates for EDI. Since 2014, UoA1 units have obtained 2 gold
awards (IfWH and GOS ICH), 4 silver awards to the Cancer Institute (CI), Medicine (awarded
2013, renewed 2018), Infection & Immunity (first awarded 2013, renewed 2017), and ICS (first
awarded 2015, renewed 2018), and 1 bronze award (DSIS). Recognising the importance of EDI, all
AS teams are represented on the senior leadership and Executive bodies of participating units, and
leaders within units play active roles in AS teams. AS teams, awards and activities in this UoA
have driven increased diversity since 2013. The proportion of female staff returned in UoA1
(HESA2 plus HESA3) increased from 46.6 in 2013 to 49% in 2020, and the percentage of female
HESA3 staff increased from 28.4 to 35% in the same period, whereas female HESA2 (research
only) staff decreased from 56.5 to 54.75%. Evidence that UoA1 AS programmes are effecting real
change in the advancement of women at senior levels is provided by promotions data and the
increasing representation of women in higher grades and in leadership roles: the percentage of
UoA1 women successful in senior promotions (Senior Lecturer and above) increased from 34.5%
in 2013/14 to 61.9% in 2019/20; 3 of 7 Heads of Division and Institute in this submission are
women (Smyth, David, Morris). Since 2014, six NIHR Research Professorships awarded in UoA1
included three women and three from BAME groups. At faculty level in this submission, in both
FMS and FPHS 4 of 8 Vice Deans are women, 3 in this submission (Tran, Mauri, Chambers).
New local initiatives such as appointment of Deputy Heads of Research departments (in DoM &
GOS ICH) have provided opportunities to develop greater gender balance in senior roles.
         The GOS ICH Gold AS Award led by Mills and Copp, recognised a concerted focus over
several years to achieve 50:50 gender balance at senior levels with visible role models and a
culture of flexible working enjoyed by students and staff at all levels. The IfWH Gold AS award (co-
led Buckley) recognised “the supportive culture of the institute, in which equality is embedded in
everyday practices” with “many examples of sustained impact and innovative beacon activities,
and strong leadership in equality and diversity” together with promotion of “flexibility and job-
sharing at senior leadership positions” (from the AS panel feedback, 2017). The DoM’s AS
Parental Support scheme recognised in its Silver Award (led by Pineda-Torra, Rohn) has
disbursed >£124,000 to 24 staff since 2014 enabling replacement work cover, retraining, and
stipends to complete PhDs, with significant positive impacts, including publication of papers, grant
submissions and conference attendance; one recipient reflected that without the award she would
not have been able to complete her PhD. The scheme was highlighted as best practice by a UCL
institutional SWAN team subcommittee, and other UCL units run similar schemes as a result.
         Women are encouraged to undertake leadership and training: Since 2014, 53 UoA1 female
staff attended UCL's bespoke Women and Senior Women in Leadership programmes, and 50% of
UoA1 staff participating in the Future Leaders Programme were female. Recognition of the
importance of EDI has resulted in the appointment of Vice-Deans for EDI (from 2019) in FMS
(Tran) and FPHS (Buckley), who will provide faculty level coordination of EDI activity across
UoA1.
         BAME HESA3 staff increased from 18.4% in 2013 to 19.5% in 2020, and 18.24% of
successful UoA1 senior promotions over the REF period were BAME staff. Additionally, overall
staff proportions increased from 23 to 23.8% for religion, from 1.8 to 2.6% for disability, and from
1.7 to 2% for sexual orientation (LGBTQ+). Building on the achievements of AS teams and
initiatives, a major future challenge will be to grow awareness and take action on EDI in relation to
protected characteristics other than gender, for example, in recruitment from BAME groups. IfWH
has an EDI Team that meets monthly to discuss issues affecting all staff with the intention of
promoting good practice across the Institute to benefit all staff and students for all protected
characteristics. The new GOS ICH EDI Initiative, launched July 2018, aims to be ‘A Voice for All’
recognizing that access and treatment are not always equal for everyone and the need to redress
the balance for under-represented groups, alongside addressing barriers to the progression of
women’s careers. The initiative comprises a Steering Committee and Focus groups, responsible
for preparing and submitting the GOS ICH’s successful Gold award application in 2020 and

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
implementing its action plan. Other AS schemes in this submission also prioritized
underrepresentation of other protected groups in their efforts to improve equality and diversity,
through promoting UCL’s online training on Diversity and Unconscious Bias. Engagement in UoA1
with the new UCL Inclusive Advocacy initiative, designed to address differences in career
progression and BAME staff attainment, is indicated by 20 of our academics becoming advocates
for BAME staff.
         Key to promoting a positive research culture has been training to combat harassment,
bullying and bias. Since 2017, Unconscious Bias training has been mandatory for all staff;
additionally, 25 of UCL’s” Where Do You Draw The Line” workshops were organized specifically
for UoA1 staff , and many UoA1 staff received Racialised Implicit Bias training. AS teams have led
initiatives to combat harassment and bullying, and disseminate a culture of flexible working
practises, including job sharing at senior levels, organisation of meetings in core working hours,
and respect for child caring duties for parents.

Preparing this submission
         Guidance and communications relating to identification of UoA1 staff and output selection
emphasised the importance of EDI principles at every stage. Assessment teams comprising 89
UoA1 staff were convened in each participating unit to oversee staff inclusion, output review and
selection, and chosen to reflect diversity across UoA1 with respect to all protected characteristics.
Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) of our submission made us re-examine inclusion of HESA2 staff
and output selection in the context of EDI considerations. Female and, particularly, BAME HESA2
staff were somewhat underrepresented in UoA1, but after rigorous scrutiny of our processes, this
did not appear to be due to inequity in HESA2 staff inclusion, and likely reflects structural over-
representation of white males in senior HESA2 grades or with fellowships. Disabled staff were 50%
more likely to be represented in UoA1 HESA2 staff than non-disabled staff, although only 4 of 95
HESA2 declared as disabled. Clearly, future work is needed in UoA1 to ensure that research staff
development fully reflects diversity in all aspects, and particularly with respect to BAME research
staff.
         HESA3 female staff were somewhat less likely than males to have outputs attributed to
them, while HESA2 female staff were just as likely as male to have outputs attributed. BAME staff
in this submission were more likely to have outputs attributed, though not markedly so, than white
staff for both HESA3 and HESA2 categories, and were also more likely to have 5 or 4 outputs
attributed per staff member. These data indicate that our processes for output review and
assessment applied EDI principles rigorously and resulted in an output distribution profile that fairly
reflected the diversity of staff in this submission.




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
3.1 Income
         UoA1 staff obtained over £850M in competitively awarded research funding, and spent
£777M research income (excluding investment in spin-off companies), equating to £322,521 spent
per FTE per annum, a 73.7% increase on annual research expenditure reported in REF2014 of
£185,714 per FTE. Research income came principally from RCUK (15.5%), UK and EU
government (27.8%), UK, EU and non-EU charities (44.8%) and industry (10.3%). Large-scale
funding awards spanning units in UoA1 since 2014 are renewals of NIHR BRCs in UCL/UCLH and
GOSH/GOS ICH representing the single biggest investment by the NIHR in UK research (£148M in
total). Staff in this UoA have also been awarded 9 MRC Programme Grants, 6 Wellcome
Collaborative Awards, 16 MRC DPFS awards, and lead or coordinate 18 EU FP7 and Horizon
2020 awards, and are partners in another 37. UCL also received more funding for COVID-19
research than any other University (UKRI, 22 June 2020).
         Since 2014, UoA1 staff have been successful in obtaining personal fellowships, major
awards, promotions or appointments, including 6 NIHR Research Professorships (only 5 awarded
per year in the UK), 7 MRC Clinician Research Fellowships, 7 Wellcome investigator awards, 7
Wellcome Senior Research Fellowships, 2 CRUK Senior Research Fellowships, 2 Sir Jules Thorn
Awards for Biomedical research (only 1 awarded per year), 3 Wellcome Clinical Research Career
Development Fellowships, 13 HEFCE Clinical Senior Lectureships, 10 ERC awards (Advanced,
Consolidator and Starter), 7 Wellcome Intermediate Investigator Awards in Science, 3 UKRI Future
Leaders Fellowships, 6 Wellcome/Royal Society Sir Henry Dale Fellowships, 4 BHF Intermediate
Clinical Fellowships, 93 newly promoted Chairs, 12 newly recruited Lecturers, and 49 new senior
recruits at Senior Lecturer and above.
         UCL has made major contributions to research in UoA1 through funding at scale for the
entire translational research pipeline through the Translational Research Office (TRO) and UCL
Business (UCLB). Since 2014, 41 large translational projects managed by the TRO were led by
UoA1 staff, supported by >£63.3M external funding; the TRO also provided proof-of-concept grants
each <£100K, totalling £2.65M, for 34 projects led by UoA1 researchers. Since 2014, UCLB has
supported enterprise activity led by UoA1 researchers: £430,107 for 5 Proof-of-concept awards,
£8.7M for 7 UCL Technology Awards, and £7.2M for the initial stages of spin-out companies, (see
4.2.2 for examples).
         Strategically important funding awards underpinning research excellence and impact in this
UoA are described below for each of the 4 major themes.

3.1.1 Cancer
         UCL’s cancer research has undergone major development since 2013, delivering key goals
of REF2014, driven by its leadership of several Centre awards and multi-Centre collaborative
networks. The CRUK UCL Centre (renewed 2017, £7.9M, plus £4.5M training grant for non-clinical
and clinical postgraduate training), is part of a national network of 13 CRUK research centres
delivering world-leading cancer research; UCL CI also houses the CRUK UCL Cancer Trials
Centre (£15M, renewed 2017). In 2018 CI established the CRUK City of London Centre (£14M
total, £2.8M UCL) focused on Cancer Biotherapeutics in partnership with Barts/QMUL, King’s
Health Partners and the Crick Institute. UCL (Emberton, Punwani) is a major partner in the
CRUK-led International Alliance for Cancer Early Detection (ACED), a £55M investment bringing
together UCL, Canary Centre at Stanford University, the University of Cambridge, the Oregon
Health and Science University Knight Cancer Institute, and the University of Manchester. This will
host 24 co-investigators across UCL and partner NHS trusts, with access to over 200,000 patients
for clinical trials. Janes leads the £56M SUMMIT study of lung cancer screening for 25,000 people,
the largest ever UK lung cancer screening study, providing training, and validation of a novel test
for early lung cancer diagnosis. UCL hosts CRUK Centres of Excellence in Lung Cancer (awarded
2019, with University of Manchester; £1.5M to UCL), and in Brain Cancer (awarded 2018, with
GOSH ICH and University of Edinburgh; £1.5M), and leads the CRUK RadNet (£1.5M total, with
UCLH, Crick, KCL and Barts), combining multidisciplinary science and engineering for advanced
radiotherapy and building training capacity in radiation oncology. CI is the UCL partner for the
cancer theme in the UCLH-UCL BRC, supporting recruitment and infrastructure (£20M for cancer).
Examples of other major funding include: MRC singe cell genomics award for state-of-the-art
                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
equipment to study circulating tumour cells as surrogates of tumour tissue (£3.6M, 2014); a Brain
Tumour Award, a CRUK-backed international consortium including UCL, Edinburgh, The Institute
of Cancer Research (ICR), University of California San Francisco, and sick Kids/ University of
Toronto, to advance research and treatment in brain cancer (£5.8M total, £1.8M UCL component,
2019); an Experimental Cancer Medicine Award to support early phase, experimental cancer
research funded through a unique UK wide initiative jointly funded by CRUK linked to 18 Centres
(£2.5M, renewed 2017); the UCL-led Cancer Immuno-Therapy Accelerator (CITA) (with UCLH,
KCL, The Crick Institute, Bart’s, The Royal Marsden Hospital, ICR), to generate state-of-the-art
immune-monitoring and discovery research, with Immuno-Oncology clinical trial training (£5M,
2015); the Posthumous tissuE donAtion in CancEr (PEACE), led by UCL, a multi-centre national
study collecting tissue and blood samples from patients with metastatic cancer after death (£4M,
2016); the International Glioma Cellular Genetics Resource (GCGR), jointly led by Edinburgh and
UCL, aiming to accelerate research into the biology and treatment of brain cancer (£3.7M, 2016).
UoA1 researchers are also key participants in awards for multimodal clinical testing of prostate
cancer patient plasma, (£5M, 2018), the Innovative CAR Therapy Platform (INCAR), to build
understanding of mechanisms responsible for biological efficacy and toxicity of CAR T cell therapy
(£4.5M, 2018), the CRUK Mesothelioma Accelerator Award (Janes) with Glasgow (£4.9M, 2019),
the Hepatocellular Carcinoma Expediter Network (HUNTER) (£5M, 2018), and the Advanced
radiotherapy Technologies Network (ART-NET) to generate innovative national radiotherapy
treatment protocols (£4.3M, 2016). 17 Individual Cancer Researchers at UCL have received other
major research grants as PI (each >£1M), (Emberton, Vanhaesebroeck, Quezada, Parrinello,
Salomoni (now Honorary), Hartley, Nathwani, Pule, Fielding, Walczak, Peggs, Hochhauser,
Jenner, Bennett, Davidson, Janes). Senior fellowships have been awarded to Quezada (CRUK
Senior Research fellowship), Hadjur (Wellcome Senior Research fellowship), Payne (CRUK
Career development Research Fellowship), Mansour (CRUK Senior Research Fellowship),
Swanton (Royal Society Research Professorship), Janes (Wellcome senior fellowship renewal),
and Jacob (Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Career Development Fellowship).

3.1.2 Infection, Immunity, Inflammation
        The Africa Health Research Institute (AHRI) was established from a £35M Wellcome award
(Director, Pillay). I&I is the UCL partner for the UCLH-UCL BRC Inflammation, Immunity and
Immunotherapeutics theme, supporting recruitment and infrastructure. Breuer (now in GOS
ICH), Director of UCL Pathogen Genomics Unit, is one of the leaders of the COVID-19 Genomics
UK Consortium mapping pandemic spread, comprising the NHS, Public Health Agencies,
Wellcome Sanger Institute, and UK universities including UCL, backed by £20M government
funding. Breuer was also awarded £3.3M by NIHR for research combatting anti-microbial
resistance and a £2.6M Wellcome Collaborative Grant to understand why Norovirus pandemics
occur and how to control them; Towers obtained a £2.1M Wellcome Collaborative Grant on innate
immune DNA sensing and viral evasion strategies, and Griffiths a £2.6M Wellcome Collaborative
Grant for analysis of cytomegalovirus pathogenesis in a human challenge system. Collaborative
awards were led by Heyderman to establish a Global Health Research Unit (£5.4M from NIHR),
and McHugh who received a total of £2.4M from the Global Alliance to reduce the burden of
tuberculosis in developing countries; Akbar was awarded a £2.1M MRC grant to enhance antigen-
specific immunity in older humans using p38MAPK inhibitors and vitamin D3. Heyderman received
£1.9M from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accelerate reduction in vaccine serotype
population carriage in Malawi and other high disease burden countries. Ehrenstein was a key
participant in a £5M MRC Stratified Medicine grant to improve therapy for SLE by application of
novel and stratified approaches (MASTERPLANS).
        UCL researchers in this theme received major individual grants: an £1.8M ERC Advanced
Investigator Award to Towers for HIV innate characterisation and manipulation of primate lentiviral
interactions with innate immunity; two MRC programme grants to Seddon (£1M) and Walker
(£1.1M), for Regulation of T cell development and function by TNF signalling; four Wellcome
Investigator Awards, £1.3M to Maini on immunopathogenesis and immunotherapy of viral
hepatitis, £1.3M to Jolly for Virus-host interactions regulating HIV-1 replication in T Cells, £1.65M
to Sansom to unravel the CTLA-4 immune checkpoint, and £1.6M to Noursadeghi for
investigations of the Human Immune Response Variation in TB. Leslie was awarded a Wellcome


                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Senior Fellowship to investigate the role of lung tissue resident memory T-cells in the
immunopathology of tuberculosis. Stauss obtained £1.5M (Apollo Therapeutics) to develop a new
therapy for multiple sclerosis, and £2.2M (Wellcome) for characterisation of innate immune DNA
sensing and viral evasion strategies. McCoy obtained an ERC grant (£959,000) to understand
HIV-specific B cell function and viral Immunogenicity, Pillay received £900,000 from the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation to investigate the transmission of HIV through understanding
phylogenetic networks. Giles & Rahman obtained a £3.53M MRC DPFS award to develop
PEGylated Domain I of beta-2-glycoprotein I as a new therapeutic agent for the antiphospholipid
syndrome. Other major grants led by UoA1 scientists include: an £926,636 Versus Arthritis
Programme grant to Mauri & Isenberg investigating the role of regulating B-cells in health and in
rheumatic diseases; Pepys and Rossor were awarded a £2.75M UCLH/UCL BRC Strategic
Award, for depletion of serum amyloid P component in Alzheimer’s disease: DESPIAD. Major
funding for clinical trials included: £1M from Versus Arthritis to Isenberg to evaluate Rivaroxaban
versus Warfarin for stroke patients with antiphospholipid syndrome with or without SLE; £1.5M
from Alnylam Pharmaceutical Inc to Gillmore & Hawkins for trials of novel treatments for
amyloidosis; £1.2M from Eidos, for a phase 3 trial & Cardiac MRI sub-study to Gillmore &
Fontana; £1.2M to Ehrenstein from GSK for safety and efficacy of Belimumab after B cell
depletion (BEAT-LUPUS).
        Senior and Career Development Fellowships have been awarded to Rowe, Male, Grove,
Kloverpris (all Sir Henry Dale Fellows), Maillard (UKRI Future Leaders Fellow), McCoy (MRC
Research Fellow), Leslie (Wellcome Senior Research Fellow), Fontana (BHF Intermediate Clinical
Fellowship), Pesenacker (Versus Arthritis)

3.1.3 Child Health
        The GOSH BRC, the only NIHR BRC focused on Child Health, was renewed in 2017
(£37.5M over five years, a 7% increase on 2012, directed by Voit). Through the BRC, GOSH and
GOS ICH work closely together to deliver world class research; GOS ICH has also contributed
substantially to GOSH Charity’s Research Strategy (2016-22). The Charity committed a total of
£50M to research over five years in new posts, infrastructure, and pump-priming grants to leverage
additional external support, focused on clinical priority areas of Cancer, Infection and Immunity,
Neuroscience, Regenerative and Developmental Science, Endocrine and Metabolic, and
Cardiovascular.
        In this REF period, five GOS ICH researchers were awarded NIHR Research
Professorships, Amrolia (2013), de Coppi (2014), Qasim (2015), Kurian (2017) and Kinsler
(2020); Achermann renewed his Wellcome Senior Fellowship for the second time in 2017;
Thrasher was awarded a Wellcome Principal Research Fellowship in 2013, renewed in 2019; and
Kurian was the sole recipient of the 2017 Sir Jules Thorne Award for Biomedical Research
(£1.5M). In 2015, GOS ICH scientists were awarded three EU Horizon 2020 Health Grants (de
Coppi, Gaspar and Mole).
        Led by Copp, the Human Developmental Biology Resource (HDBR), a collaborative award
with Newcastle University, funded in 2018, by Wellcome and MRC (£2.1M), provides an embryonic
and fetal tissue bank for functional genetics and cell-based research. In 2019, Livesey led The
Human Developmental Biology Initiative, a collaborative award by Wellcome for £9.58M (£3.22M to
UCL), which will work closely with HDBR to develop the required technologies, creating two
research hubs in proximity to the HDBR sites in London and Newcastle to advance understanding
of developmental cell lineage as the basis for comparative studies of development between
species, and understanding the developmental origins of disease.
        Wedderburn with Isenberg renewed Versus Arthritis funding to establish a National
Adolescent Rheumatology Unit at UCL/GOS ICH (£2M, a major uplift from the original award in
2012). Wedderburn also led a successful collaborative bid to the MRC Stratified Medicines call for
the CLUSTER Consortium, “Childhood arthritis and its associated uveitis: stratification through
endotypes and mechanism to deliver benefit”.
        Major funding for development of novel cell therapies includes a £1.65M MRC DPFS award
to Gissen (2016) to develop AAV-mediated gene therapy for a severe metabolic liver disease,
ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, and a £1.4M MRC DPFS grant to Qasim to translate
CRISPR/Cas gene-edited cell therapy products to the clinic.

                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Other major funding awards are £1.7M from Wellcome to Jenkins for investigation of
ciliopathies, renewal of Scambler’s British Heart Foundation Programme Grant (£1.43M) to
investigate morphogenetic signalling pathways in Di George and Charge syndromes, and £1.53M
to Martinez-Barbera by CRUK to characterise pro-tumourigenic activities of cellular senescence in
adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma.

3.1.4 Experimental Medicine
       Since REF2014, there has been major growth in experimental medicine particularly in
imaging, respiratory research, cardiovascular research, surgery and interventional sciences, and
obesity research.

Surgery
        The newly refurbished Charles Bell House, opened 2016, houses the interdisciplinary
WEISS Centre, established through a £13.1M Wellcome/EPSRC award to Emberton, Punwani,
and Lovat, which enabled co-location of scientists in engineering, imaging, surgery, and
biomaterials, bringing together multiple imaging modalities, robotics, sensing, nanoengineering,
surgical navigation and simulation, to accelerate innovation, and concept-to-product research for
maximum impact. A £1.8M refurbishment of IOMS on the Stanmore campus (completed 2019) has
enabled co-location of IOMS staff and facilities for surgical rehabilitation research in a single
building. Moonesinghe is one of three chief investigators in a global clinical trial supported by $9M
in philanthropic support from the ‘COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator’ to establish whether
chloroquine, a widely prescribed anti-malaria drug, could also prevent people from getting COVID-
19.

Imaging
        Punwani is lead and coordinator for the National Cancer Imaging Translational Accelerator
with 8 UK Universities (CRUK £10M, 2019 – 2024), which superseded the CRUK/EPSRC
Comprehensive Cancer Imaging Centre between UCL and KCL; Punwani is also lead for novel
microstructural and metabolic MRI for prostate cancer (CRUK, £2.3M, 2018-23), and is co-
investigator (Co-I) on multiple collaborations with Emberton in prostate cancer, including the
world’s largest developmental programme of metabolic hyperpolarised MRI for prostate cancer
(INNOVATE, PCUK, £534,000 2015-19; Re-IMAGINE, MRC, £6.3M, 2018-23). Lythgoe was co-I
on the UCL Centre for Doctoral Training in Medical Imaging (EPSRC, £6 million) and on the UK
Regenerative Medicine Platform (MRC/EPSRC/BBSRC, £4.3 million). Kalber is co-I on the
Regenerative Medicine Platform Safety and Efficacy Hub (MRC/EPSRC/BBSRC, UCL component
£1.3M). Stuckey, Lythgoe were awarded £350,000 EPSRC funding for non-invasive imaging of
glymphatic clearance to Lythgoe, Wells. Stuckey was co-I on a Regenerative Medicine Centre
award (BHF, £2.5M). Plumb, Taylor are co-leads for NIHR HTA programme grants in Crohn’s
disease (£358,583, 2017-21), and for an NIHR EME programme in Crohn’s (£895,292, 2016-20)
        Fellowships were awarded to Stuckey (BHF Intermediate Fellowship £401,000), Kalber
(EPSRC Fellowship £1.2M), Harrison (Alzheimers Research UK Fellowship £300,000), Wells
(Wellcome/Royal Society Fellowship £759,037), Walsh (MRC Skills Development Fellowship
£150,000), Witney (Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellowship £1.14M), Plumb (NIHR Postdoctoral
Research Fellowship, £581,643, and NIHR Senior Fellowship).

Respiratory
         New state-of-the-art laboratories for UCL Respiratory Medicine underpins major
development in this area. Lomas obtained MRC Programme Grant funding for work on
mechanisms and therapies for Alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency (>£2M); Hurst obtained £1.3M from
the MRC/GACD for his global COPD research; Brown was awarded £1.2M MRC Antimicrobial
Resistance Target Discovery and Validation funding to develop adjunct antibody therapy for severe
antibiotic-resistant Acinetobacter baumanii infections, and a £0.9M MRC Project Grant for
Identification of effective protein antigens for novel S. pneumoniae vaccines. Brown was also co-I
with Breuer on a £3M NIHR Antimicrobial resistance infrastructure award. Porter was awarded
£2M to lead two clinical trials as part of a £10M fund launched to support research and testing of


                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
therapeutics that could be rapidly deployed to help address COVID-19. Jacob was awarded a
£400,000 NIHR BRC Capital Call Grant for Hyperpolarised Xenon lung imaging.

ILDH
         Jalan leads two EU Horizon 2020 Consortia (€5.9M for Carbalive and €6.4M for Aliver) to
develop and clinically translate innovative treatments for severe chronic liver disease. O’Brien was
awarded £1.32M from Wellcome and the Department of Health for a nationwide clinical trial of
albumin to treat infection in liver disease, the largest trial ever performed in this group of patients
(ATTIRE), and £1.85M from the NIHR HTA, to reduce spontaneous bacterial peritonitis in liver
cirrhosis (ASEPTIC trial). Selden received a £2M Wellcome Technology transfer grant for a
bioartificial liver device for treatment of liver failure, and £1.45M for a Technology Strategy Board
grant to development a GMP cryogenic cold chain for clinical delivery of regenerative medicine
therapeutics.

Obesity Research
        Batterham was awarded a £2.1M NIHR Professorship in 2016 for maximising the benefits
of bariatric surgery, and was sole recipient of the 2016 Sir Jules Thorn Biomedical Research
Award (£1.5M).

Intensive Care Medicine
        Singer leads the Critical Care Theme of the NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative
overseeing deposition of >120 million datapoints on >50,000 intensive care patients from 12
intensive care units within the 5 original BRCs in the UCL Safe Haven. Singer leads on first-in-
patient clinical studies including the bladder tissue oxygenation monitor (£1.2M award from
Wellcome & Department of Health), a novel sepsis biomarker panel (with Mologic, funded by a
£1.3M Innovate UK Biomedical Catalyst Award), and is co-applicant on two multicentre clinical
studies funded by the NIHR EME Programme, one a Wellcome Translation Fund Award, and one
the EU COMBACTE antimicrobial resistance consortium.

Renal
        Rohn obtained a £2M philanthropic donation to advance her work developing novel
approaches to treatment of urinary tract infections. Salama obtained £567,350 MRC funding for
targeting glycans in ischaemia reperfusion, and £274,554 from Kidney Research UK, to investigate
and target sodium in autoimmunity and inflammatory kidney disease. Gale received £244,273 from
Kidney Research UK to define functional genomics of congenital anomalies of the kidney and
urinary tract.

Cardiovascular
         UoA1 staff participated in a successful bid (lead Hingorani, UoA2) for a £1M BHF
Accelerator Award supporting research in the BHF-NIHR Bloomsbury Centre for Clinical
Phenotyping. Hausenloy received £1.5M for a BHF-sponsored multi-centre randomised controlled
clinical trial on the effect of remote ischaemic conditioning on clinical outcomes in myocardial
infarction patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (Eric-Ppci); McGregor
won a £1M MRC DFPS grant for development of a calcification resistant porcine pericardial heart
valve; Williams was a major contributor to a £1.5M MRC DPFS award, and Treibel was a partner
in a EU H2020 consortium award for Microvascular dysfunction in vascular cognitive impairment
and heart failure (£759,000).
         Other major grants include a £1M EPSRC HealthCare Challenge Award to Schievano for a
hub for device personalisation in the treatment of congenital diseases, and a €1M ERC Starting
Grant for computational modelling for personalised treatment of congenital craniofacial
abnormalities. Major personal grants and/or fellowships were awarded to: Deanfield (BHF Chair
extension); Patel £794,000 (BHF Clinical Intermediate Fellowship); Treibel (BHF Clinical
Intermediate Fellowship £903,000); Steeden (Royal Society-EPSRC Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow,
£414,000; UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship, £970,000); and 5 NIHR Senior Investigator awards
(Deanfield x2; Williams; Yellon, Elliot).


                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
IfWH
        David was awarded a €2.6M FP7 grant (from 2013) to develop an innovative gene
therapeutic treatment for foetal growth restriction, is co-applicant with UCL Healthcare Engineering
on the GIFT Surg Wellcome/EPSRC funded £9.9M project to develop flexible fetoscopes that will
lead to the evaluation and implementation of minimally-invasive techniques to repair spina bifida in
utero, and is the UCL partner for an Horizon 2020 £4.8M grant, funding a first clinical trial of in
utero stem cell transplantation for osteogenesis imperfecta (brittle bone disease). Widschwendter
won a Horizon 2020 grant of £2.9M and a further £1.1M in charitable funding for research on
women’s cancers, and was also awarded an ERC Advanced grant of £1.8M. Marlow received
£1.3M MRC funding for a clinical trial. Waddington received two MRC DPFS awards, to develop
gene therapies for the early onset inherited genetic diseases, Dravet Syndrome, and Dopamine
Transporter Deficiency Syndrome.

3.2 Core Infrastructure and Facilities
        UCL has spent >£38M in this submission through its Capital Investment Fund (CIF) and
Provost’s Strategic Development Fund (PSDF) for major new research buildings, laboratory
refurbishments, and to facilitate relocation of groups resulting from major infrastructure
developments. In addition, UCL has awarded UoA1 groups £3.33M through its Capital Equipment
Fund (CEF) and matched equipment fund, exclusively for shared equipment and facilities that are
cross-faculty and multidisciplinary. UoA1 staff also received UKRI research income (in kind) of
£1.13M for protein structural analyses using the Diamond Light Source Synchrotron, and
the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility in Grenoble. Major infrastructural investment in
individual UoA1 research themes is described below.

3.2.1 Cancer
         In Cancer, there has been major investment in and expansion of existing core facilities,
funded by the CITA CRUK accelerator, the CRUK UCL Centre, Cancer BRC Theme, MRC single
cell genomics, and CRUK City of London Centre awards, and additional philanthropic donations,
including: investment of £1.2M to upgrade our proteomics capability; substantial expansion of core
flow cytometry, with investment of £1.4M, with key capital spending for high-speed cell flow-sorting,
multidimensional flow-cytometry and CyTOFF cytometry; expansion of core genomics (£0.8M),
including Fluidigm C1 microfluidic single cell sequencing technology, platforms for focussed
(MiSeg) and high throughput (HiSeq) next generation sequencing and nCounter RNA multiplex
profiler technology enabling analysis of RNA samples of poor quality; £0.9M for expansion of
microscopy and cell imaging, including single cell time resolved analysis capacity (Nikon Biostation
CT), confocal microscopy and high content imaging; and a new state of the art pre-clinical radiation
research facility, including a Xstrahl SARRP small animal radiation research platform funded by
£0.3M investment, further leveraged by UCL’s investment in the Proton Beam Therapy Centre.

3.2.2 Infection, Immunity and Inflammation
         The new PEARS building (led by Stauss) opening 2021, is a £60M investment including
£24.2M from UCL’s CIF, which will provide cutting-edge facilities for the IIT to develop world-
leading basic, preclinical and translational research of the human immune system closely linked to
clinical services and a clinical trial facility to translate research findings into patient benefit. The
Pathogen Genomics Unit (PGU) has received major funding from the MRC, BRC, and UCL’s CEF
to Breuer (>£4M) to develop capacity in pathogen and other sequencing, transcriptomics and
epigenetics; the facility has a turnover of ~£500,000 per annum and supports over £12M in grant
income. The Centre for Amyloidoisis opened a new multiparametric cardiac MRI facility (£3M
investment; led by Hawkins, Gillmore, Fontana) in 2016 for patient-centred research and clinical
trials including a new gamma camera facility for diagnosis, quantification and monitoring of amyloid
disease.




                                                                                               Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2.3 Child Health
         Partnership between GOSH and GOS ICH created the Zayed Centre for Research into
Rare Disease in Children, opened 2019 beside the existing GOS ICH building, and representing a
major strategic investment in Child Health (£110M). The Zayed Centre provides state-of-the-art
facilities for research into genetic and genomic medicine, regenerative medicine and cell and gene
therapy, and is the new home for UCL Genomics, a collaborative research facility providing
expertise in the latest genomics technologies including state-of-the art DNA and RNA sequencing
and hybridization technologies, targeted sequencing, genotyping and methylation profiling. This will
enable UCL Genomics to support a growing portfolio of projects at UCL as well as national and
global collaborators. Equipment and laboratory fit-outs for the Zayed Centre are also supported by
£2.75M from UCL’s CIF.
         The Human Developmental Biology Resource (Copp), described in 3.1.3, has provided a
new embryonic and fetal tissue bank to support research in this area. Other investment in child and
adolescent health includes new laboratories for the Centre for Adolescent Rheumatology, a
collaboration between GOS ICH and DoM, supported by £2M Versus Arthritis funding to
Wedderburn and Isenberg.

3.2.4 Experimental Medicine
         The refurbished Charles Bell House on the Bloomsbury campus (opened 2016) was a
£35M investment providing state-of-the-art laboratories, offices and equipment for Surgery &
Interventional Sciences (DSIS), for Imaging and the Institute of Healthcare Engineering (UoA15),
and hosting the WEISS centre, including: facilities for image-guided surgery, metabolic
hyperpolarised MRI in prostate cancer, including installation of a general electric hyperpolariser
funded by a £5.3M MRC award to Punwani and Emberton, 3T MRI research, flexible wet labs,
tissue culture, sequencing, laser work, histology, imaging and engineering workshops. This
investment underpins UCL’s leadership of the world’s largest developmental programme for
metabolic hyperpolarised MR in prostate cancer, and is powering innovative interdisciplinary
research programmes in robotics, and surgical simulation and training. A £1.8M refurbishment of
IOMS completed in 2019 on the Stanmore/RNOH campus has enabled co-location of all IOMS
staff and has provided new purpose-made facilities for surgical rehabilitation research and the
ASPIRE centre. A new medical imaging suite for DSIS was equipped with a £1M investment,
offering unique platforms to researchers.
         UCL Respiratory Medicine had a major refurbishment in 2014 (£4.2M from UCL’s CIF) to
establish a floor of new laboratories and offices providing dedicated space for co-location of 9
research groups in respiratory science and medicine. Porter and Navani developed the first
cryoscopic biopsy service for interstitial lung disease in the UK with charitable and GSK funding.
Janes is the lung theme lead in the CRUK Early Lung Cancer Detection Centre developing online
pathology and imaging for research networks. Renal Medicine has acquired a new imaging suite
with live cell and confocal imaging (£800,000).
         UCL/UCLH and the NIHR BRC built a £2.5M GMP Radiopharmaceutical Production facility
and invested in follow up capacity building to drive innovation in proof-of-concept studies for
disease biomarkers, diagnostics and therapeutics, and accelerate clinical trials and translational
imaging research. Major new investment in Imaging has funded multiple imaging modalities for
clinical and pre-clinical research, including a £6M MRC Infrastructure Award for Image Guided
therapy to Lythgoe, Punwani and Emberton; a £2M BRC-funded Imaging Trials Unit (Punwani);
two 9.4T MRI systems for preclinical molecular MRI research (£2M award to Walker-Samuel,
Lythgoe); a 3T MRI system for preclinical studies (£2M, Punwani, Lythgoe); £850,000 Wellcome
funding to Walker-Samuel, Lythgoe for a preclinical MRI system for neurology and oncology; a
£735,000 UCL CIF Award for Multimodal MRI to Lythgoe, Walker-Samuel; a £460,000 UCL CIF
Award to Lythgoe for a PET/CT system; an ICON compact 1T MRI system for benchtop imaging
of small rodents, an Optical Projection Tomographic scanner, an IVIS Spectrum for
bioluminescence imaging in small animals (Stuckey, £400,000); NanoSPECT/CT and Mediso
NanoScan PET/CT equipment for small animal imaging at different resolutions (Lythgoe, Kalber,
£450K); and funding for a VisualSonics vevo2100 Ultrasound System for in-vivo small animal
imaging to 30 μm resolution, photoacoustic imaging, and high-resolution episcopic microscopy to
create 3D computer models at sub-micron resolution.

                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       New infrastructural investment in Cardiovascular Science includes the £1M clinical
research centre occupying the 4th floor 170 Tottenham Court Road, and £2M from UCL, UCLH
Charity and the UCLH NIHR BRC for the Bloomsbury Centre for Clinical Phenotyping, operational
2017, equipped using a £776,000 BHF infrastructure award. In 2019, Children’s Cardiovascular
Diseases occupied a full floor in the Zayed Centre for Research into Rare Disease in Children. The
MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing at UCL (MRC LHA) received £650,000 from UCL (to
house Captur) and MRC investment supported LHA’s move into refurbished offices at Torrington
Place, coalescing all UCL’s population cohort research.




                                                                                          Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
4.1 Collaborations
4.1.1 National Collaborations
         The results of a UoA1-wide survey conducted in July 2020 showed that 92% staff in this
submission have been involved in national collaborations. UCL is a founder of the Francis Crick
Institute, which opened in 2016 under Director Prof Sir Paul Nurse, employing 1,250 scientists with
an operating budget of >£150M p.a.. UCL is an ideal founding partner because of its research
excellence in Life and Medical Sciences, and the location of its main campus and NHS partners
within 10 minutes’ walk to the Crick. Several staff returned in this submission have senior group
leader (Swanton, Breuer, Bonfanti) and early group leader (Beale) positions jointly with the Crick.
         UoA1 units and staff (eg Emberton, Enver, Hargrave, Herrero, Hochhauser, Jacques,
Jamal-Hanjani, Janes, Lythgoe, Morris, Parrinello, Peggs, Pule, Punwani, Quezada, Stauss,
Swanton, Walczak), lead or are major partners in multiple national networks and consortia. Major
examples include the Advanced radiotherapy Technologies Network (ART-NET), The Posthumous
tissuE donAtion in CancEr (PEACE), The Cancer Immuno-Therapy Accelerator (CITA), CRUK
radiation network award (RadNet), the CRUK Brain Cancer Centre of Excellence (BCoE), The
CRUK-City of London Centre, and the CRUK Lung Cancer Centre of excellence (LCoE). The UCL
CRUK Clinical Trials Centre leads phase I and II studies across the UK, with active recruitment
from 17 Experimental Cancer Medicine Centres. Punwani is coordinator for the National Cancer
Imaging Translational Accelerator involving UCL with the Universities of Glasgow, Manchester,
Newcastle, Oxford, Cambridge, Imperial, KCL and ICR. UCL Partners with UCL’s Cancer Institute,
together with Queen’s University Belfast, University of Leeds, Leeds Teaching Hospitals,
Genomics England and IQVIA, leads the DATA-CAN: a new Health Data Research UK Hub for
Cancer funded by Health Data Research UK to transform how cancer data from across the UK is
used to improve patient care.
         Peggs is Director of the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Blood and
Transplant Research Unit (BTRU) in Stem Cells and Immunotherapies, an inter-disciplinary
partnership between UCL, KCL, QMUL and NHS Blood and Transplant. Beck is Director of the
Personal Genome Project UK; he leads the Epigenetics subdomain for the Genomics England
Clinical Interpretation Partnership (GeCIP); and co-leads the International Human Epigenome
Consortium EpiMap partnership. Fielding is Chief Investigator of the CRUK-funded UKALL14
(involving 70 NHS centres) and UKALL60+ studies (30 NHS centres), the UK's frontline
researcher-initiated trials for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia. Vanhaesebrouck leads the EU-
funded Innovative Training Network for PhD Training in ‘PI3K in health and disease’.
         Breuer and Castellano are members of the COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium (see
4.2.2). Hawkins, Pepys, Gillmore, established the UK Amyloidosis Network (UKAN), the UK
Amyloidosis Advisory Group (UKAAG) and the UK ATTR Amyloidosis Patient Association
(UKATPA). In the UK Government’s landmark 100,000 Genomes Project, Swanton, Flanagan,
Bridgewater and Thirlwell are leads of Cancer Domains, Jacques and Beales, respectively, co-
leads of the Childhood Solid Cancers and Paediatrics Domains, Gale and Kleta co-leads for the
Renal domain, and Chitty led recruitment and analysis of ~26% of rare disease genomes from
~7,700 families in this project.
         UoA1 staff are members of the NIHR Cardiovascular Network, Humphries co-established
the UCL, Edinburgh, Bristol Consortium of Genetic Studies (UCLEB) with Bristol and Edinburgh
Universities. ICS staff (Clapp, and Honoraries) are members of the UCL-wide PAH consortium,
which is linked nationally through the National Cohort Study of Idiopathic and Heritable Pulmonary
Arterial Hypertension (BRIDGE - project funded by BHF & MRC) and linked internationally through
the Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute (PVRI), a global medical research charity fighting
pulmonary disease.
         With Newcastle University, Copp leads the Human Developmental Biology Resource, a
Wellcome and MRC-funded collaborative resource, and Livesey leads the Wellcome’s £10M
collaborative Human Developmental Biology Initiative.




                                                                                          Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1.2 International Collaborations
         Our survey showed that 85% of staff were involved in international collaborations, and 28%
hosted visiting international researchers at UCL for a period of 12 months or more, funded by a
competitive scheme from their own country. Since 2014 UCL’s Global Engagement Office has
awarded 73 grants to staff in UoA1 from its Global Engagement, Cities and other Funds, with a
total value of £172,190, to foster international networking and collaboration. Since 2014, UoA1
researchers led 18 and were members of a further 37 international consortia funded by European
Union FP7 or Horizon 2020 grants. For example, Beck is a co-lead, work-package lead or member
of Horizon 2020 EU-STANDS4PM (WP lead), Horizon 2020 CETOCOEN-Excellence (member),
NIH BioPath (member), Horizon 2020 MultipleMS (member), and NOCRC (WP lead).
         UCL (lead, Emberton) with the Universities of Cambridge, Manchester, and Stanford and
Oregon in the US, are partners with CRUK in the International Alliance for Cancer Early Detection
(see 3.1.1), to share ideas, technology and expertise in order to accelerate understanding of the
earliest origins of cancer to detect and treat the disease before it emerges. UCL’s CI is a major
partner or lead in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Expediter Network (HUNTER), Innovative CAR
Therapy Platform (INCAR), International Glioma Cellular Genetics Resource (GCGR), Multimodal
clinical testing of prostate cancer patient plasma, and the Brain tumour award. Re-IMAGINE,
STRATOSPHERE, and STAMPEDE are large international platform clinical trials led by UoA1
investigators (Emberton, Attard). GOS ICH is one of four members of the International Precision
Child Health Partners with Melbourne, Boston and Toronto.
         Fielding leads the CRUK program “personalising therapy in adult ALL” jointly with AV
Moorman (Newcastle) a partnership involving the Wellcome Sanger Institute, Memorial Sloan
Kettering and QMUL. In Cardiovascular Science, Patel co-leads an international consortium
across >17 countries investigating Genetic and Non-Genetic Determinants of Subsequent
Coronary Heart Disease (GENIUS-CHD). ICS has international partnerships with the Karolinska
(Sweden); Medical University of Utrecht (Holland), and Yale (USA), Duke Medical School NUS,
University of Brno, University of Cape Town (South Africa), Menzies Institute for Medical Research,
University of Tasmania (Australia), University of Aarhus (Denmark), and inherited disease
consortia with several multi-national Pharma collaborators.
         The UCL-Yale Collaborative is a multi-disciplinary, transatlantic research, education,
training and clinical collaboration between UCL/UCLP and Yale University/Yale-New Haven
Hospitals, underpinned by a Framework Agreement signed by the Presidents of the two
Universities and the CEOs of their hospitals, led by Martin until 2017.

4.2 Contribution to the research base, economy and society
4.2.1 Contribution to the research base
Our comprehensive survey of UoA1 staff in July 2020 shows that:

43.7% served on national (Research Council or similar) or international grants committees, and
86% have refereed research funding proposals;
28% are members of learned societies and 36% of professional bodies;
40% served on journal editorial boards, and 92% have refereed manuscripts for journals;
63% have participated in conference organisation, with 74% serving as conference programme
chairs, 67% have given invited keynote lectures, and 95% given invited lectures;
82% have examined doctorates;
65% have engaged with industry through research or in advisory capacities, and 62% have taken
steps to translate or commercialise their research for patient and societal benefit;
43% were members of expert boards or committees outside the university sector (e.g. NHS,
regulatory, government, industry);
78% have directly engaged with non-academic users of research (industry, NHS, government),
and 87% engaged with non-academic audiences or beneficiaries of research (e.g. schools, patient
groups, media and cultural organisations).
In addition, UoA1 staff performed paid consultancy work valued at >£16.7M during the REF period.

Major contributions in these different areas are highlighted below.

                                                                                          Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research Councils, Charities, and other funding bodies
         Lomas was MRC’s Deputy Chief Executive from January 2017 to March 2018, responsible
for driving forward the MRC Delivery Plan and ensuring that the organisation remained a world
leader in medical science in preparation for the creation of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).
Lomas was also a member of the BHF Board of Trustees, 2016-2019. Swanton is Cancer
Research UK’s Chief Clinician. Rosenberg is Scientific Adviser to the NIHR Office for Clinical
Research Infrastructure, and is the NIHR CRN Hepatology National Specialty Lead. Halligan is a
member of the NIHR Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Commissioning Board and the NIHR
HTA Strategy Group. Isenberg is a member of The Board of Trustees and a non-executive director
for Versus Arthritis (formerly Arthritis Research UK). Fielding is a member of the NIHR HTA
Interventional Panel. Smyth is Chair of the MRC Clinical Training and Career Development Panel
and clinical chair of the MRC Training and Careers Strategy Board and Overview Group. Towers
is Chair of the Wellcome Expert Review Group in pathogen biology and transmission. During this
REF period, UoA1 academics served on the grant awarding committee panels for the Wellcome
(Noursadeghi, Walker, Maini, Breuer, Lythgoe), MRC (Enver, Pillay x2, Mauri, Hochhauser,
Morris), BBSRC (Pineda-Torra), CRUK (Khwaja, Stauss, Bridgewater), and BHF (Zachary).
Elliott is president of Cardiomyopathy UK.

Government
       Lomas is Deputy Chair, Scientific Advisory Committee Genomics England 2013-. Breuer is
Chair of the Department of Health Joint Committee on Vaccines and Immunisations (JCVI) human
papillomavirus vaccine subcommittee, which oversaw introduction of three new human
papillomavirus vaccine policies that between them are predicted to eradicate most HPV cancers in
the UK, and Chair of the JCVI VZV vaccines subcommittee, which introduced a new vaccine
predicted to prevent 98% of shingles. Brown is a member of the JCVI.

Learned societies, Editorial Boards
        Williams is Chairman-Elect of the European Council on Hypertension of the European
Society of Cardiology. Lomas is a member of the Council of the Academy of Medical Sciences.
Akbar is President of the British Society of Immunology since 2019. Martin chaired the European
Society of Cardiology Task force on stem cells and heart to 2018. In this REF period, Maini,
Breuer, Morris, De Coppi & Akbar were elected Fellows of the Academy of the Medical Sciences
(FMedSci). Moonesinghe represents the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges on the Board of the
UK Clinical Research Collaborative (UKCRC). Jalan is Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Hepatology
(2015-present). Grove has been included in the World Economic Forum’s Class of 2020 Young
Scientists, a global list of exceptional researchers at the forefront of scientific discovery, one of 25
scientists from five continents, nominated for their research excellence, leadership potential and
commitment to serving society. McGranahan was named as one of 30 EMBO Young Investigators
for 2020, recognised for their scientific excellence and among the next generation of leading life
scientists.

NHS
        Powis (Professor of Renal Medicine, Honorary UCL appointment in UoA1) was appointed
the National Medical Director of NHS England from 2018. Cross is Clinical Advisor to the National
Children’s Epilepsy Surgery Service. Fielding chairs the UK National Cancer Research Institute
(NCRI) Adult ALL subgroup and a member of the UK NCRI Industry Adoption Panel. Khwaja is a
member of the NCRI Haematological Oncology Clinical Studies Group. Lomas was non-executive
director UCLH 2015-18, reappointed until 2021. Burns is Clinical Director Royal Free NHS
Foundation Trust. Stauss is Governor of Royal Free NHS Foundation Trust. Hurst is UK COPD
lead for National Asthma and COPD Audit Programme. Janes is Vice Chair of the Lung Cancer
Clinical Excellence Group. Denton is a member of NHS England Rheumatology Clinical Reference
Group. Ehrenstein, Rahman and Giles are members of Department of Health working groups and
NHS England commissioning groups for rheumatological diseases. Moonesinghe is associate
National Clinical Director for Elective and Critical Care at NHS England.



                                                                                               Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Regulatory authorities
       Cross is Clinical Advisor to the update of the NICE guidelines for Childhood Epilepsy 2018-
2021. Navani is a member of the NICE Committee for Lung Cancer.

Industry
        Lomas was a member of the Steering committee, “Evaluation of COPD Longitudinally to
Identify Predictive Surrogate Endpoints”, for GSK to 2016, and is a member of the Trelegy COPD
advisory board, GSK 2017-present, and of the Grants committee for the Grifols Alpha-one
antitrypsin Laurell Training Award (ALTA) Grifols 2012-present.

NGOs, Other
         Cross is Treasurer of the International League Against Epilepsy 2017-2021 (Secretary
General 2013-2017), Lomas is Director of GMEC 2015- and MedCity Ltd. 2016-, member of the
Board of Directors of the Crick Institute 2015-, and the Board of Directors Africa Health Research
Institute 2016-. Hurst is lead of the multi-morbidity working group at Global Alliance for Chronic
Disease.

4.2.2 Contribution to Economy and Society
New enterprises: spin out companies
         UCL’s TRO and UCLB commit support to the translation of research for societal and
economic benefit, including small proof-of-concept grants worth >£4.5M for 41 projects led by
UoA1 researchers. UoA1 staff performed consultancy work for industry and small or medium-sized
companies worth £13M.
     Since 2014, UCLB’s Apollo and UCL Technology Funds (circa £100M) have provided support
to enterprise activity led by UoA1 researchers, including £430K for 5 Proof-of-concept awards,
£8.7M for 7 UCL Technology Awards, and £7.2M in the initial stages of spin-out companies. Staff
in this submission are primary founders of spin-out enterprises that have collectively
raised >£900M in private and other investment, and have generated a cluster of high-value
companies centred on advanced therapies for human diseases, now employing >1000 people.
Major examples are:
      Autolus Therapeutics Ltd, founded in 2014, by Pule (senior Vice-President & Chief
         Scientific Officer), with £30M investment from Syncona, followed by £99M in series B and C
         investment, to deliver advanced T-cell programming and manufacturing technology in the
         development of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cell therapies for haematological
         malignancies. Autolus launched on the NASDAQ stock exchange in June 2018, raising
         $160M (£123.6M) investment, now employing ~400 people, most in highly-skilled roles.
         Autolus is recognised as a UK industrial success story, featured in the government’s Life
         Sciences Sector Deals published 2017 and 2018 as a case study for “Making the UK a
         global hub for advanced therapies manufacturing”, and was one of a small number of
         biotech companies invited to discuss UK industrial strategy with then Secretary of State for
         Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, Greg Clark.
      Orchard Therapeutics, founded by Gaspar (Honorary at UCL since 2019) and Thrasher to
         develop gene therapies for complex rare diseases, was spun out of GOS ICH in 2015, with
         Gaspar as Chief Scientific Officer. In 2018, a strategic agreement between GSK and
         Orchard secured development of GSK’s portfolio of approved and investigational rare
         disease gene therapies by Orchard, and access for patients. Orchard raised $110M (£85M)
         Series B funding in December 2017, and in November 2018, $225 million (£173M) through
         its initial public offering (IPO) on NASDAQ, being valued at £1.3BN; Orchard currently
         employs >230 people in the UK and US.
      Achilles Therapeutics co-founded by Swanton, Peggs, Quezada & Lowdell launched in
         2016, has raised £183M Series A, B and C investment to design therapies targeted at
         truncal tumour neo-antigens, and currently employs 130 mainly highly-skilled staff at its
         headquarters in Stevenage, UK.
      Freeline Therapeutics based on Nathwani’s development of new therapies for haemophilia
         was founded in 2015, raised £91.8M Series B and C investment, $158.8M in an IPO on
         NASDAQ in August 2020, and now employs 200 staff in the UK, Germany and the US.

                                                                                            Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Stauss and Morris, in partnership with scientists from KCL, and Hannover Medical School,
       co-founded Quell Therapeutics with £34M from Syncona Ltd in March 2019, and a further
       £1M from the UCL Technology Fund. Quell Therapeutics now has ~30 employees
       developing therapies which harness the suppressive capacity of T-regs to address several
       conditions of immune dysfunction utilising gene-modified cells.
      Yaqrit, founded by Jalan to develop novel therapies for liver disease, has raised £3.4M in
       Series A and other investment and employs 12 people.

Clinical trials
         Investigators in UoA1 make pivotal contributions to large-scale clinical trial activity, and
UCLH, GOSH and RFH are at the forefront nationally for patient recruitment in clinical trials,
exemplars of which are described here. Janes is Chief Investigator of the SUMMIT Study
delivering low dose CT lung cancer screening to 25,000 people in London and developing early
cancer blood tests for 50,000 (UCL Sponsored/GRAIL funded), leading to building of 4 new CT
screening centres screening 150 people a day. Janes also leads the FIM cell and gene therapy
study TACTICAL (£2.9M MRC) and METEOR (Innovate - £1.65M) phase 1/2 studies delivering a
therapy designed and manufactured at UCL, and is Chief Investigator in EARL – a first randomised
controlled trial of a therapeutic intervention in early lung cancer, and of the Lung Screen Uptake
Study showing the use of the Lung Health Check and Lung MOT were acceptable to patients, a
model taken up by Manchester, Nottingham and Leeds in subsequent trials, and now adopted by
NHS England for their CT Screening pilots. More than 20 other active clinical trials are led by or
involve UoA1 investigators, including the landmark academic trials, PEACE (Jamal-Hanjani),
TRACERx (Swanton) and DARWIN (Swanton), to develop criteria for stratified cancer treatment,
and the ALLCAR19 and EU funded CARD (both Peggs) trials for CAR-T based immunotherapy.
UoA1 staff lead or co-lead prominent multicentre clinical studies to develop novel therapeutics,
early detection and risk identification: Attard is lead or co-lead for the PRIME, Re-IMAGINE (led by
Emberton), STRATOSPHERE, PCF SELECET, and STAMPEDE clinical studies; Swanton leads
the Bristol Myers Squibb-funded RUBICON-A Rule Book and Immune Atlas for Combination
Therapy, and co-leads the NovoNordisk Foundation-funded Data-intensive complex systems
approach, and EU FP7 PREDICT studies; Yong is lead or co-I for the UKMRA Myeloma XV TMG,
RADAR, and 2019 Myeloma Early Detection CRUK Programme. Morris and Stauss led
completion of one of the first T-Cell Receptor gene therapy trials in Europe. Denton led multiple
academic or commercial clinical trials (ESOS, deSScipher, ZEBRA, Sclero-XIII, MINIMISE,
Endothelin antagonist, IL6R blocker, LPA1 antagonist, PPAR agonist, IL13 blockade) advancing
healthcare for systemic sclerosis. Ehrenstein is Chief Investigator for the multi-centre BEAT Lupus
trial testing a novel therapeutic combination for lupus (rituximab plus belimumab), the first
academic-led early phase interventional UK clinical trial in lupus for a decade.
         Emberton, Moore, Kasivisvanathan led two landmark prostate cancer imaging trials:
PROMIS and PRECISION. The Division of Surgery and Interventional Sciences on the Royal Free
campus is the lead UK centre for clinical trials in surgery and peri-operative care. Vaidya led the
TARGIT-IORT trial, which has established the superiority of single-dose intraoperative
radiotherapy over several weeks of daily conventional radiotherapy, with reduced toxicity, reduced
all-cause mortality, and improved quality of life, reduced travel time and hospital visits. Hurst is the
International coordinating investigator for the NOVARTIS “SUNSET” trial, Porter is Chief
investigator of a multi-centre study of a novel treatment for Interstitial Pulmonary Fibrosis in
collaboration with Vicore, Brown is involved in two early phase vaccine trials for S. pneumoniae
(funded by MRC and ImmunoBio). Pinzani and Rosenberg’s development of a new infrastructure
for investigator-initiated clinical trials in Hepatology at Royal Free Foundation Trust since 2014, has
resulted in UCL-Royal Free Hepatology rising from 13th position to 3rd nationally for clinical trial
recruitment in hepatology.

Public Health and Public Policy
Response to COVID-19 Pandemic
      UoA1 staff have played leading roles in the national and global effort to fight the COVID-19
pandemic. Peacock (UCL Infection & Immunity, Honorary) is Director and Breuer and Castellano
are members of the COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium, pivotal to rapid viral genomic
sequencing and mapping the spread of COVID-19 and identifying new variants; Breuer led
                                                                                               Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
establishment and coordinates work of the Consortium’s London hospital hub, and leads with
Imperial College, the COG-UK Hospital Onset COVID-19 Infections (HOCI) study to evaluate the
benefit of rapid genomic sequencing in preventing hospital transmission of COVID-19.
Moonesinghe is one of three chief investigators in a global clinical trial (COVID-19 Research
Outcomes Worldwide Network (CROWN) Collaborative) to establish whether chloroquine, a widely
prescribed anti-malaria drug, could prevent people from getting COVID-19.
         Singer and Lomas co-led a UCL team with Shipley (UCL Engineering, returned in UoA12)
and Mercedes Formula 1 engineers (Mercedes-AMG High Performance Powertrains), which
produced modified CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) machines, called UCL-Ventura,
adding vital ventilation capacity for treatment of COVID-19 patients. This gained NHS regulatory
approval and an order for 10,000 CPAP devices by the UK government in April 2020
(https://bit.ly/3qVkwUc). The UCL-Ventura breathing aid is treating COVID-19 patients in 110 NHS
hospitals across the UK. Details required to make the device are available to download free from
https://bit.ly/347EbXa, a research licensing website developed by UCLB to disseminate
technologies helping the fight against COVID-19, and have been downloaded by more than 1,800
teams from 105 countries around the world and ~30 teams are manufacturing devices for testing in
Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Germany, India, Iran, Mexico, Russia, South Africa and the
USA. Singer and Lomas were co-recipients of the Royal Academy of Engineering’s President’s
Special Award for Pandemic Services in recognition of their work on CPAP devices.
         Williams leads CAPACITY-COVID, a UK-wide collection of cardiovascular complications
due to COVID-19 and part of an international registry, and 1 of 7 national flagship projects funded
by the NIHR-British Heart Foundation Cardiovascular Partnership. Porter received £2M to lead two
clinical trials from LifeArc’s £10M fund supporting development of therapeutics for COVID-19:
ATTRACT, in collaboration with Vicore Pharma, will test whether VP01 (Compound 21) can
recalibrate the renin-angiotensin- system towards repair; and COVASE, in collaboration with the
Crick Institute, investigates the ability of recombinant human deoxyribonuclease I to reduce
hyperinflammation in the lungs of hospitalised COVID-19 patients.
         Vaidya’s TARGIT-IORT trial has informed recommendations in guidelines for treatment of
breast cancer during the pandemic for the British Association of Cancer Surgery, German
University Hospitals, and the Italian Association of Radiotherapy and Clinical Oncology. Peacock
and Powis (Honoraries), are members of UK government’s Scientific Advisory Group for
Emergencies (SAGE), advising the government on the pandemic, and several staff and honorary
academics in UoA1 are members of SAGE subgroups, including Beale (Public Health England
Serology Working Group), and Hopkins (Honorary consultant, The Hospital Onset COVID-19
Working Group).
         Singer, Pillay, Breuer, Lomas, Brown contributed to the written evidence submitted by
UCL to the House of Commons Select Committees on Science and Technology and Health and
Social Care Joint Inquiry, “Coronavirus: Lessons learnt”. Montgomery chairs the National
Emergency Covid Critical Care Committee (hosted by the Intensive Care Society), and co-
authored National Covid Critical Care Guidelines.

Other Contributions
        The prostate cancer imaging studies, PROMIS and PRECISION (Emberton, Moore and
Kasivisvanathan) resulted in changed NHS England and NICE guidance and the European
Association of Urology guidance. The PRECISION study won the British Medical Journal’s 2019
Paper of the Year Award to Emberton, Moore, Kasivisvanathan and Punwani. Ehrenstein’s
BEAT lupus trial adopted by NIHR Translational Research Partnership, led to NHS England
Commissioning recommending rituximab for patients with myositis 2015-16, and contributed to
interim Commissioning Policy recommending rituximab for lupus in 2015 and 2019. Singer chairs
the International Sepsis Forum, and co-led the ‘Sepsis-3’ international taskforce that redefined
sepsis. Groves, Halligan, Hutton, Lythgoe, Plumb, Punwani, Taylor, Walker-Samuel all
contributed to the Imaging Biomarker Roadmap Guidelines for Cancer Studies. Halligan, Plumb,
Taylor were major contributors to the ECCO/ESGAR European guidelines on assessment of
inflammatory bowel disease and indications for large bowel imaging. Halligan, Taylor contributed
to European guidelines for rectal cancer imaging. Halligan is leading the ESGAR European
guidelines for imaging anal sepsis. Work by Halligan, Plumb, Taylor comprised 9 of the 35
references in the Royal College of Radiologists CT colonography National Standard Document,

                                                                                          Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
integral to the National Guidelines for the use of imaging in the National Bowel Cancer Screening
Programme. Taylor was a member of the UK Department of Health working group on use of CT
screening in asymptomatic individuals and lead author for CT colonography in the 2014
Department of Health publication, “Justification of Computed Tomography (CT) for Individual
Health Assessment”. Punwani was co-author of the White paper on National implementation of
prostate MRI. The Institute of Sport, Exercise and Health was a partner in the Camden Active
Spaces project which involved improving the playgrounds of several primary schools and
measuring the impact on activity levels of children within those schools. Harper was appointed to
the Nuffield Council of Bioethics working group on Genome Editing and advisor on IVF culture
media to the MHRA. She is a key player in the development of the Human Fertilisation and
Embryology web site on IVF add-ons and co-author of the consensus paper on add-ons. She co-
founded the Fertility Education Initiative aiming to bring fertility awareness into the UK curriculum.
Humphries co-directed the Department of Health funded UK-wide pilot for cascade testing of
Familial Hypercholesterolaemia (FH), was the Lead Clinical Advisor for the recently published
NICE guidelines on FH, and is project director for the Royal College of Physicians FH Audit.

Public Engagement
        Data from the Higher Education Business and Community Interaction Survey for 2018/19
record that 156.5 days of UoA1 staff time were allocated to 119 public engagement events with a
combined audience of >72,000 people. Research in UoA1 has benefited from major public
engagement facilitated by the UCL Public Engagement team, resulting in numerous contributions
of UoA1 staff to TV and Radio programmes, aired on major terrestrial free-to-air channels, focused
primarily or exclusively on UCL-led research. Highlights include: a 1.5hr BBC2 documentary on
immunotherapy for leukaemia (Pule, Morris); a 1hr BBC2 documentary on Jalan and Mehta’s
work revealing the risks of alcohol for liver disease; widespread coverage in mainstream national
media of Emberton and Moore’s work on MRI for Prostate cancer diagnosis (BBC, national
press); and the major contributions of UoA1 staff and honorary academics to the national effort to
combat the COVID-19 pandemic (Powis, Breuer, Singer). UoA1 researchers have also been at
the forefront of promoting public awareness of advances in biomedical science: Lythgoe was
Director of the Cheltenham Science Festival (2005-18) and is a member of the Wellcome Public
Engagement Fellowship Committee. The Evening Standard’s annual list of London’s most
influential people (https://www.standard.co.uk/news/the1000) features several staff returned in
UoA1, including Gupta, Williams, Enver, and Swanton.




                                                                                               Page 37
