Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: D33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Introduction

 The Department of Music at City remains a vital, energizing and innovative hub that leads
 cutting-edge research across numerous local, national and international networks. Our research
 profile is highly varied relative to our size and often characterised by a practice-based emphasis
 on contemporary music-making, even when this is predicated on research into historic music
 cultures. While our reach is international, our central London base attracts sizeable audiences
 for our extensive series of concerts, conferences and symposia.

 Over this REF period we have expanded our research staff base from 9.2 to 11.8 FTE. This now
 comprises four professors (Cottrell, Lingas, Mera, Nooshin), two readers (Armstrong, Pace), four
 senior lecturers (Einbond, Loya, Molitor, Rennie), and two more recent lecturers (Browning
 [2020+], Nystrom [2018+]). We have increased our professional service support by 1.0 FTE and
 improved on several key metrics: more than doubling external grant income, significantly
 expanding non-HESA income, and increasing total PhD completions. Our vibrant community of
 doctoral researchers is at the heart of our activities and remains an important component of the
 cosmopolitan research environment that has long characterised our work.

 Strategic aims since 2014

 In REF2014 we pointed to our research strengths in 1) ethnomusicology; 2) the interface
 between music and technology (notably in relation to music and other media); and 3) various
 relationships between music scholarship and performance. Many of our research activities
 continue to coalesce around these broad themes, but we have consciously developed the
 interstices between them as well as expanding our activities in other longstanding disciplinary
 interests. This is especially the case in relation to music analysis, where Loya’s appointment has
 stimulated more departmental activity in this sub-field (both he and Pace are elected trustees of
 the Society for Music Analysis [SMA]) as detailed in #4 below. Together with Nooshin’s work in
 ethnomusicology and music analysis, they demonstrate a strategic augmentation of our overall
 research profile and a fourth area in which we now provide disciplinary leadership.

 Three key drivers have underpinned research activity over the period: KD1) implementing the
 bold impact strategy that we set out in REF2014; KD2) increasing our international reach and
 thus our global disciplinary research leadership; and KD3) explicitly developing our research
 expertise in the relationship between scholarship and practice across a range of sub-fields.
 Much of the research activity laid out in this submission demonstrates how we have
 operationalised these key drivers; two new initiatives provide specific examples:

 1) In 2017 we established a new research centre SPARC (Sound Practice and Research at
 City), jointly directed by Einbond, Molitor and Rennie but involving Armstrong, Mera, Nooshin
 and now Browning, to promote creative and scholarly work on sound and composition practices.
 The Centre has its own record label (multi.modal recordings, with professional distribution via


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NMC of the three releases so far) curated by Molitor and Rennie, and holds an annual
 symposium that brings together scholars and practitioners. The first symposium (2017) resulted
 in a special issue of Tempo as well as reviews of the recordings in The Wire and other
 publications. The Centre is directly funded by the department’s research committee, but
 members have also leveraged other funds, such as £2k of HEIF funding given to support the
 2019 symposium. We have further supported the Centre’s development through targeted PhD
 studentships and fee waivers for researchers producing cognate work (e.g. Hoffman,
 Asmundsdottir) as well as retaining active links with affiliated postdoctoral researchers (e.g.
 Cole, McKay). Various invited international guests—e.g. Martin Buckner (USA), Bernhard Lang
 (Austria)—have participated in these symposia.

 2) Also in 2017 we formed the City Pierrot Players, an in-house ensemble comprising staff and
 professional musicians directed by Pace. It was inaugurated as part of a study day on musical
 modernism and commedia dell’arte (06.06.17), providing both scholarly and performance
 investigations of this tradition, but has given several subsequent concerts involving
 contemporary material, such as the Decennials concert (27.11.18) which celebrated the
 birthdays of, and collaborated with, several living composers, including Hans-Joachim Hespos
 (Germany) and Kunsu Shim (Germany/South Korea).

 These two initiatives exemplify how the key drivers shape our work overall: they generate impact
 through concerts, recordings and other public-facing activity (KD1); they increase our
 international engagement (KD2) through their association with distinguished overseas artists;
 and they illustrate through wide-ranging textual and practical activities a commitment to
 interrogating relationships between scholarship and practice in a range of different domains
 (KD3).

 Impact strategy

 Implementing KD1 has generated numerous impactful research activities, viz.: the international
 performance commitments of scholars such as Lingas and Pace; the many national and
 international public performances of compositions by Armstrong, Einbond, Molitor, Nystrom and
 Rennie; extensive and wide-ranging commitments to public musical performances taking place
 in our concert hall and other local spaces; engagement with schools and other educational
 contexts by Lingas, Nooshin and Pace; and extensive international media contributions in print,
 online and on air from all team members.

 Our impact case studies are microcosms of these broader activities. Lingas’s work researching
 and performing Byzantine chant, and Pace’s collaborations with myriad composers developing
 contemporary piano repertoire, evidence our research expertise in the relationship between
 scholarship and practice (KD3) and are exemplary within the field for the way they convert
 rigorous scholarship into professional music performance. They comprise extensive international
 performances, further dissemination via numerous recordings, wide-ranging media work, and
 associated educational and outreach activity that generates new audiences and informs existing
 ones. While global in their scope and in the recognition they command, they are strongly
 connected to research activities undertaken on campus: both case studies combine their
 international work with performances undertaken in our own concert series; they are closely
 connected with completed and ongoing doctoral research projects; and they regularly feed into


                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our research seminar series and other conferences, thus linking our ‘local’ and ‘global’ research
 activity in a mutually productive fashion (KD2).

 It is a measure of the extent of our impact activities—relative to our size—that two further case
 studies were considered for inclusion: Nooshin’s outreach and educational work relating to
 Iranian music culture was highlighted in REF2014 and has extended its impact during this
 period; and our recently established research centre SPARC supports a range of impact
 activities that would already comprise a meaningful case study.

 This widespread impact activity has been facilitated by our 2014 pledge to ‘support public
 dissemination of our research through the allocation of Department and School funds, [and] to
 take advantage of other funding sources…whenever possible’. The financial specifics are
 detailed in #3, but we have consistently delivered on this pledge. Internal mechanisms include:
 impact-specific departmental funding awarded via our Research and Ethics Committee to nearly
 all staff over the period; institutional pump-priming awards for Einbond, Nooshin and Rennie;
 and HEIF monies awarded to support impact work for nine members of the team. External
 funding streams include: a £10k KTP Innovation Voucher for work with Arcola Theatre (Cottrell);
 Arts Council England monies and similar to support public installations in collaboration with
 festivals and other organisations (Molitor) and education work (Nooshin); support from local
 councils and the National Lottery for the Walls on Walls community-building arts engagement
 project (Rennie); and a wide range of UK and international festivals and other performance
 organisations for the public dissemination of research by our performers and composers (notably
 Lingas and Pace). Our consistent success in gaining and deploying these funds demonstrates a
 recognition of the importance of research impact, and a commitment to producing it, that runs
 throughout the team.

 This extensive impact footprint arises in part from our 2014 commitment that, when appointing
 new staff, we would ‘assess not only the international quality of their research but also its
 potential impact’. Thus, several staff were appointed in part because of the public-facing nature
 their research already evidenced. Molitor’s research prior to her appointment, for example,
 included work with the Tate Gallery, Turner Contemporary and the Science Museum, which
 prefigured her 2016 Singing Bridge installation on Waterloo Bridge produced as a staff member.
 Rennie had similarly undertaken the first Walls on Walls project prior to his appointment in 2016
 as well as a comparable project working in the favelas of Maré, Rio de Janeiro.

 We have also developed impact awareness within our PGR community, particularly through
 effective use of AHRC Cultural Engagement monies. Thus, Howell built on her 2015 thesis about
 Boosey & Hawkes by constructing 3D-printed clarinet mouthpieces from manufacturer’s technical
 drawings, which performers have used on surviving instruments; this also resulted in a jointly
 authored paper with her supervisor (Cottrell). Lingas worked with Antonopoulos to organise a
 study day on the teaching of Byzantine music in the diaspora, involving UK and Greek academics,
 members of Cappella Romana and the School of Byzantine Music; talks and follow-up interviews
 were broadcast on London's Hellenic TV.

 We have further expanded our impact footprint by developing our concert series into a regular
 and well-attended feature of London’s musical landscape, described by Robert Barry in The
 Wire magazine (December 2016) as a ‘superb London concert series’. To support this, and our
 broader performance activity (including our three-week City Summer Sounds music festival), we

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have invested in a dedicated 0.6 Performance Officer Leo Chadburn (also an award-winning
 composer). As planned in 2014, we have ‘privilege[d] in our concert schedule the performance of
 new artistic works, especially those by staff or doctoral students’. For example, the premiere of
 Molitor’s You Touched the Twinkle on the Helix of my Ear was given in May 2018, and a concert
 by the Riot Ensemble in April 2019 gave UK premieres not only to Einbond’s Kate Frankenstein
 but also doctoral researcher Rodgers’ Maeshowe. Between October 2016 and March 2020 we
 staged 85 world premieres and 29 UK premieres. Annual audience figures for concerts on site =
 c.2000 for each season 2016-19, with audiences largely comprised from external visitors rather
 than students or staff. Several of these events have been recorded for broadcast on BBC Radio
 3, further illustrating the significance and national impact of the series. Examples include the
 concert by An Assembly, featuring music entirely by younger composers, broadcast on 10.06.17;
 or the concert by Explore Ensemble, broadcast on 21.03.20, featuring premieres by John Croft
 and Edwin Hillier.

 We have also asserted our presence more strongly elsewhere on the London scene, via
 research collaborations that go beyond our own performance spaces. Examples include our two-
 day celebration in September 2016 of the work of musicologist Bob Gilmore—The World
 According to Bob—partly curated by Armstrong with performers including Pace, and held in
 collaboration with Café Oto in Dalston, parts of which were again broadcast on BBC Radio 3.
 And we regularly collaborate with the Iklectik venue near Waterloo for concerts and other events,
 such as the research symposia organised there by SPARC on both 14/15.09.18 and 14.09.19, in
 which presentations and performances were split between the venue and our own performance
 spaces, thus externalising our research activity for local London audiences.

 Interdisciplinary research

 Much of our interdisciplinary work involves links with computer science. Lingas’s collaboration
 with professors of both Art History and Computer Science at Stanford University provides an
 outstanding example. Working with the vocal group Capella Romana, the Icons of Sound project
 endeavours to recreate the sonic experience of Byzantine liturgical chants as they would have
 been originally heard when performed in Constantinople’s Hagia Sofia. Project outputs have
 been made available on CD, DVD and film (and are included here in both REF2 and REF3), with
 the CD reaching the top spot in the Billboard ‘Traditional Classical Albums’ chart in March 2020
 and being voted the #2 release overall for that year. Similar interdisciplinary collaborations are
 embedded across the team. Cottrell undertook a CI role in the Digital Music Lab, an AHRC-
 funded project involving partners (mostly computer scientists) from five HE institutions and the
 British Library, investigating Big Music Data. The project resulted in several co-authored
 publications and an open-access resource allowing researchers to analyse a dataset of more
 than one million audio recordings. Einbond’s research has a significant computational
 component, as evidenced by his current participation in a network led by Georgina Born on
 Music and Artificial Intelligence and his ongoing collaborative work with IRCAM in Paris. Mera
 has similarly collaborated with computer scientist Dr Simone Stumpf to research eye-tracking as
 an indicator of the effectiveness of film music. Armstrong co-supervised the PhD research of
 Andrew Lambert with Tillman Weyde in City’s Department of Computing, resulting in four co-
 authored papers; Lambert went on to receive the 2016 Silver Prize from the Worshipful
 Company of Technologists, awarded for ‘outstanding contribution to the field of Computer
 Science’.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Open research environment

 While recognising that Music faces particular challenges in relation to open access, we make as
 much of our research as possible freely available, and all staff have ORCID identifiers. City
 Research Online hosts most of our textual outputs, subject to publisher embargos, with 207 such
 outputs uploaded over the period. Armstrong has developed an open-source programming
 library (FOSC) for object-oriented generation of musical scores, freely downloadable from
 Github. The SPARC website has several downloads that showcase ongoing creative work. Our
 departmental blog also provides snapshots of current departmental research as well as hosting
 videos of some of our research debates (such as ‘Practice-as-Research’ in 2015 and ‘Are We All
 Ethnomusicologists Now?’ in 2016). Several of our practice-based projects have extensive freely
 available resources. Each of Rennie’s Walls on Walls installations have downloadable sound
 files generated from that project (presently amounting to c.2k streams); Molitor’s Auricularis
 Superior—selected for the ISCM 2019 World Music Days—is similarly freely downloadable.
 Lingas’s group Cappella Romana continues to expand its web-based media activities, with over
 20,000 people watching the live feed of the ensemble's September 2017 concert in Iași,
 Romania. A 2008 recording uploaded by a fan to YouTube has over 1.3m plays, while other
 YouTube videos from the group, all evidencing outcomes of Lingas’s research, range from
 c.330k to c.710k views, and streams from Spotify of various tracks amount to more than 750k
 since 2015 alone.


 Future goals

 Over the next cycle our research activities will continue to coalesce around the four areas
 outlined above. We will particularly develop our music analysis work, thus shaping the current
 resurgence of this sub-field within the discipline. Notwithstanding the uncertainty of the research
 funding environment, increasing overall amounts of grant capture and improving our FTE income
 metric by at least 50% will remain a strategic priority. We will make major investments in our
 already excellent research facilities. Generating impact (KD1) will remain central to our activities.
 We will sustain a broad range of impactful research that traverses performance, creativity and
 scholarship, funded from a range of sources. We will develop, through conferences, publications
 and similar, a national and international leadership role as disciplinary ‘impact champions’,
 disseminating our expertise for the benefit of both academic colleagues elsewhere and the
 discipline’s PGR community. Demonstrating the potential for high-quality impact will remain an
 essential or desirable criterion when advertising staff positions that include a significant
 responsibility for research. We will build on the internationalisation advances (KD2) we have
 made in this cycle by assembling or joining international networks and teams of eminent
 researchers with cognate interests. In particular, we will disseminate our creative practice
 outputs at the highest professional levels and expand our activities wherever possible,
 generating new audiences and linking these activities with excellent research scholarship (KD3)
 in a mutually productive fashion. These key drivers will be particularly enhanced through our
 further development of SPARC, and we will use this research centre not only to enhance grant
 capture activities and international networking but also to increase the number of legacy outputs
 available (recordings, films, texts), particularly via open access.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Staffing FTE has increased over the period from 9.2 to 11.8, with five new appointments made
 since 2014 (Browning, Einbond, Molitor, Nystrom, Rennie) and Loya’s interim appointment being
 made permanent. The impact of Loya’s appointment in rejuvenating our work in music analysis
 is noted above. The appointments of Einbond, Rennie, Molitor and Nystrom have all served to
 enhance our creative and scholarly work in relation to music, sound and technology. They have
 been instrumental in establishing and developing SPARC. Browning’s ethnographic research
 into sound art creativity adds a further dimension to this work, as well as illustrating our ongoing
 commitment to ethnomusicology in general.

 Whereas our 2014 profile was comprised largely of lecturers and senior lecturers, with just one
 professor, we now have four professors, two readers, and all other staff at senior lecturer level
 except our two most recent appointments. All staff with new ranks have progressed to them
 rather than being appointed from elsewhere. This illustrates both our enhanced research stature
 and our capacity to develop individuals, because all promotions must satisfy strict research
 quality criteria and reader/professor appointments are externally reviewed and validated. It is
 also testament to the supportive environment existing within the department since all
 applications for promotion are scrutinised by more senior colleagues before being submitted for
 institutional consideration.

 Staff support and development

 All new staff are appointed a mentor from within the department, part of whose remit is to
 support the development of the new appointee’s research profile. ECRs are encouraged to apply
 for university pump-priming awards, which are intended to strengthen future funding applications
 or lead to high-quality publications. For example, Einbond received £5k in 2016/17 for
 collaborative research with the US quartet Yarn/Wire leading to performances of The Kind of
 Problem a City Is in both London and Chicago; and Rennie £4.8k in 2017/18 towards the costs
 of making a short film about a site-specific Walls on Walls installation in Camden.

 The departmental Research and Ethics Committee provides an important mechanism for
 sustaining and vitalizing our research activity. Over the period some £65k of funds has been
 distributed to staff and doctoral researchers, with awards ranging from small reimbursements for
 UK travel or conference costs to awards of more than £1k for international activities. Between
 2017-19 alone, for example, funds were awarded to Pace for primary research in der Akademie
 der Künste (AdK) and Staatsbibliothek, Berlin; to Rennie and Molitor to support publication and
 dissemination costs for the multi.modal record label; to Nooshin to support grant writer costs; to
 Armstrong to enable attendance at a premiere of his work in Australia.

 Our workload model generously allocates 40% of staff time for research, while all staff can also
 apply for sabbatical leave after seven terms of service, subject to approval of research
 intentions. Outcomes are followed up via written reports to the School Research and Enterprise
 committee and during staff appraisals. Over this REF cycle, ten periods of sabbatical leave have
 been approved, for eight different members of staff; Lingas was also granted study leave for one


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 term, externally funded by the Oregon foundation, and a further 2020 grant facilitating a 0.5
 research buy-out to concentrate on Capella Romana activities for the next 2.5 years.

 Our commitment to staff development goes beyond permanent contract holders. ECR Kyle Devine
 was submitted in REF2014 and subsequently appointed at the University of Oslo in part on the
 strength of a research profile that we helped develop during his fixed-term contract. Graham
 Griffiths, also on a fixed-term contract with us in 2014 but who has long been a visiting lecturer
 and research fellow, has similarly been supported financially for several research trips to Russia
 in support of his Stravinsky research.

 Postgraduate Research

 We sustain a strong PGR community that remains large relative to our staff base. While very
 recent staffing appointments have slightly diluted our overall PGR student/staff metric (down
 from 3.0 in 2014 to 2.7 in 2020) our total number of PhD completions has risen over the period
 from 28 to 32; 27 doctoral researchers are presently registered. The Senior Tutor for Research
 (currently Armstrong) provides research leadership for PGRs and also takes responsibility for
 progression monitoring. Timely completion rates are evidence of high-quality support; during a
 periodic review of PGR programmes in 2019 it was noted that our average completion rates
 were 3.94 years for FT students and 6.03 years for PT students.

 As noted in REF 5a, the Doctoral College oversees a Researcher Development Programme for
 PGRs which provides training in qualitative and quantitative methods, research ethics, thesis
 writing, viva preparation, etc. This is augmented at department level with music-specific research
 seminars, composition workshops, careers sessions, etc., in which PGRs participate and, on
 occasion, lead. All doctoral researchers are reviewed annually. Where progress appears
 unsatisfactory, remedial measures are agreed between the individual and the department.
 Continuing unsatisfactory progress is likely to result in withdrawal from the programme. The
 department institutes a rigorous PhD upgrade process in which, within approximately 18 months
 (FTE) of registration, ongoing work is scrutinized by two members of staff. PGRs are expected to
 demonstrate competence across a range of criteria including originality, methodology, research
 independence and familiarity with relevant literature. All researchers must present at least one
 paper every year as part of the department’s seminar series and they receive feedback on their
 presentation from their supervisor and others present.

 Most doctoral researchers are supported with departmental funds at some point in their
 programme to give conference presentations or for other activities (University or UKRI
 studentship holders have an automatic entitlement of £1,000 over three years). In 2018/19, for
 example, c.30% of the departmental research committee’s expenditure was on doctoral
 researcher activity. This included attendance at conferences in New York (Simmons–£500) and
 Portugal (Penev–£191), as well as invited talks in Iceland (Dysers–£350) and Turkey (Lolovar–
 £500), among others. Rodgers was also supported with funds (£413) to undertake high-quality
 recordings of two of her compositions, later released on the record label All That Dust.

 The level of support given to our doctoral researchers, and the rigorous critique of ongoing work
 that we provide, has resulted in achievements by them that are impressive and wide-ranging.
 Monographs such as Pioneer Female Violin Virtuosi in the Early Twentieth Century (Routledge,
 2019) by Goldberg, and Contemporary Worship Music and Everyday Musical Lives (Routledge,

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2017) by Porter, were both derived from their PhD theses. Others have published in journals as
 diverse as Ethnomusicology (Sylvanus), Perspectives of New Music (Cole), The Galpin Society
 Journal (Howell), Ethnomusicology Review (Wilford, Messeder), The Journal of the International
 Association for the Study of Popular Music (Wilford), etc. Cagney is also now co-editor of The
 Oxford Companion to Spectral Music and a contributor to the Routledge Companion to Musical
 Modernism.

 We transfer our departmental impact expertise to help our doctoral creative practitioners make
 their own significant contributions to the economy and society. Our composers have enjoyed
 particular success. Bailie already has an extensive international composition career. Her
 orchestral piece To Be Beside The Seaside (part of her PhD portfolio) received its world
 premiere in Glasgow at the Tectonics Festival in May 2015, performed by the BBC SSO. She
 curated and produced the Cut and Splice festival of experimental music for BBC Radio 3 in 2015
 and was awarded a prestigious DAAD Scholarship in 2016; Rodgers was awarded a Daphne
 Oram Prize in 2018 and also commissioned by Riot Ensemble, leading to the premiere of
 Maeshowe at Nordic Music Days; Lolavar’s opera ID, Please was premiered at Pittsburgh Opera
 in 2017, live-streamed via the Carnegie Mellon University website, and performed again as part
 of the Tête à Tête Opera Festival at The Place in London in July 2017; Higgins’ opera,
 Schutzwall was also performed at RADA as part of the same festival in August 2017. Cole was
 awarded c.£13k from Arts Council England for his Earth Music workshops, which encourage
 primary school children living in urban environments to develop connections with nature through
 music. He also ran workshops in Islington schools as part of our community engagement work.

 Achievements by performers are similarly impressive. Antonopoulos has worked alongside his
 former supervisor Lingas in a variety of settings, including as a fellow scholar-performer in
 Cappella Romana, and has led his own ensemble Psaltikon at conferences and workshops in
 Europe and the USA. Pianist Karpeyev has recorded works by Nikolay Medtner (the subject of
 his thesis) for Chandos Records, curated the First and Second International Medtner Festivals
 (2016, 2017) and has been appointed Music Curator at Pushkin House, London.

 We recognise that only a small proportion of doctoral researchers now move into HE careers,
 but we provide Graduate Teaching Assistant experience to ensure individuals are well prepared
 for post-doc and/or permanent positions if desired. Dysers, for example, was awarded a
 prestigious Fulbright scholarship to undertake research at Columbia University (which will be
 followed by a further post-doc position at Uppsala funded by the Swedish Research Council),
 and Wilford has a similar post-doc position at Cambridge. Those moving into permanent
 positions include Porter (now at Erfurt, Germany), Crowdus (Hanover, Germany), Green
 (Huddersfield), Simmons (Liverpool) and Sylvanus (Nigeria). Part of our success in this area lies
 in generating understandings of how doctoral researchers can contribute to the disciplinary base
 even at an early career stage. Conference organisation provides useful training in this respect.
 Thus, Wilford was supported to organise a conference on ‘Music, Technology and Digital
 Cultures in the Middle East and North Africa’ at City in 2017, attracting c.40 delegates. Dysers
 was similarly helped to convene the Again and Again conference held at City in 2019, receiving
 £1k from the department as well as successfully raising external funds from the RMA and
 SEMPRE, and attracting c.75 delegates. In both cases these conferences were closely
 connected to their theses and provided significant networking and profile-raising opportunities for
 the individuals.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our doctoral researcher community is a vital component of our work and deeply embedded
 within our overall research environment. The achievements noted demonstrate our ongoing
 commitment to regenerating the disciplinary base, and our success at doing so, in many different
 parts of a heterogenous field.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 The music studies field has particular challenges to address in relation to equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI) and we are proactively seeking to improve the status quo. In 2019 we advertised
 two PhD fee waivers (one supported by a donation re-directed for this purpose) specifically
 framed to encourage applicants from under-represented groups, successfully awarding one of
 these within our target group. The same year we invited Chi-Chi Nwanoku—founder of the
 Chineke! Foundation, which promotes diversity in classical music—to give our distinguished
 annual lecture on the diversity challenges within both music academia and professional music-
 making. We hosted a joint RMA/NAMHE seminar on ‘Interrogating Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion in Music: BAME routes into and through Higher Education’ in May 2019, which then led
 to a one-day conference on ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in Music Higher Education’ again
 organised at City in January 2020. This was in partnership with all leading UK music HE
 scholarly organisations and attracted c.70 participants. Nooshin has demonstrated particular
 leadership in this area, organising two conference panels on musicology and parenting at the
 BFE and RMA conferences in 2019 as well as giving a keynote talk on EDI issues at the
 BFE/RMA PGR conference in 2019. She is the co-founder and co-chair of the Equality,
 Diversion and Inclusivity in Music Studies Network and chair of the RMA EDI Working Group;
 she also acts as an advisory panel member for the AHRC/BBC project ‘Celebrating the
 Contribution of Black, Asian and Ethnically Diverse Composers in Classical Music’ and has been
 invited to take part in the AQA’s review of EDI representation in the music specifications of their
 awards.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Scholarly infrastructure

 Research leadership in the department is distributed among several roles, including Head of
 Research (Lingas), Senior Tutor for Research (Armstrong), chair of the Research and Ethics
 Committee (Einbond), research seminar organisation (Loya), all overseen by the Head of
 Department (Pace). These roles have rotated throughout the team over the period, facilitating both
 refreshed approaches in the different areas as well as opportunities to develop research
 leadership. These departmental roles are supported at School level by Associate Deans for
 Research (Mera 2016-19) and Postgraduate Research (Cottrell 2017-20). Since 2019, Mera has
 also served as Deputy Dean (and for a period as Interim Dean) and Cottrell as Assistant Vice-
 President leading City’s Doctoral College. Music has benefitted from having two members of staff
 undertaking these senior research-related roles for much of the REF period, since this provides
 cross-disciplinary insight into research development mechanisms as well as strong links with
 overarching university and national agendas. Our increased success in external grant capture and
 the promotion of many staff into more senior roles have in part been underpinned by the more
 rigorous internal review processes implemented following internal dissemination of this senior
 experience. All funding bids (internal and external) are subject to peer review within the
 department by members of the Research and Ethics committee or other appropriate staff.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Applications for external funding must also be submitted to the peer review college that operates
 within the School.

 Specialist support is offered by the School’s research office, which comprises a Business
 Development Manager (facilitating engagement, knowledge exchange and impact) and a
 Research Impact Officer. A Research Services Support Manager, Support Officer and Finance
 Manager assist in identifying opportunities for external research funding, application
 development and submission, peer-review processes, distribution of awards and project
 management and external reporting. Further assistance is provided at institutional level by the
 Research and Enterprise Office, which has additional responsibility for research integrity,
 contracts, intellectual property rights and commercialisation, knowledge transfer, etc. The
 Publications team, based in the Library, provide staff support and manage City Research Online
 (CRO), the institutional open access repository for research outputs.

 Income

 We have more than doubled our HESA-reported grant capture since 2014. Staff in Music have
 led on 32 bids with a success rate slightly above 28%. Funds awarded reflect the breadth of our
 activity: interdisciplinary research such as Cottrell’s AHRC-funded Big Music Data project;
 collaborative work exemplified by Einbond’s award from the Sasakawa Foundation for a
 residency project involving UK and Japanese composers; and our impact activities, such as
 Lingas’s award from the Oregon foundation to support his work with Cappella Romana or our
 use of AHRC cultural engagement funds for our impact work with doctoral researchers.

 Staff generating external funding are given additional leave in full when such funds are intended
 to support this (subject to a minimum of 20% teaching buyout funding being secured). The School
 also has a notably generous formula to allocate Research Sustainability Funding into a PI
 account—8% of grant income received plus one third of funding received for PI time—which can
 be further used to support RA appointments, conference attendance, research equipment
 purchase, etc.

 Nearly 60% of our staff research is embedded in areas of musical practice. External grant
 capture is arguably more difficult in these fields, particularly in relation to composition, which is
 often predicated on ‘lone scholar’ activity. While this has consequences for our overall grant
 income registered per FTE member of staff, it is more than offset by the extensive and often
 impact-related non-HESA income streams we generate. Over this REF cycle staff were awarded
 a total of £357,844 in this category. This breaks down as £189,356 for performance activities
 directly related to research outputs; £131,700 for broader impact work arising from research,
 sometimes including commission fees; and £36,788 for commission/installation fees, sometimes
 including ancillary costs related to first performances. Funders include Arts Council England,
 Camden Council and The Big Lottery for Rennie’s Walls on Walls project; APRA AMCOS
 (Australia) and the RVW Trust for composer commission fees; the Iran Heritage Foundation to
 support Nooshin’s work with Tiny Owl Publishers, and a wide range of festivals and other
 performance organisations—e.g. Utrecht Early Music Festival, The Art Institute (Chicago),
 Ultima Festival (Oslo), TRANSIT Festival (Leuven)—as part of the international performance
 activities of staff.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ongoing grant capture activity is further reflected in our use of HEIF funds to underpin our
 impact work. While such funds are awarded after internal rather than external competition, they
 nevertheless illustrate a continuing commitment across the team to develop research impact
 using as wide a range of funding streams as possible. 23 awards were made to nine different
 members of staff, totalling £82,329. Awards sustained an array of projects, including two awards
 of £5.7k and £5k to Pace to support recordings of the complete piano works of Brian
 Ferneyhough (2019) and Sam Hayden (2020); £5k to Nooshin to support composition, recording
 and filmmaking work in relation to The Phoenix of Persia project (2018); £4.4k to Armstrong to
 support production costs of a portrait CD on Hat Hut records (2017); £2k to Einbond to support
 the costs of staging his site-specific chamber opera Hidden in Plain Sight on the streets of Aix-
 en-Provence (2015); £4k to Mera for work with EXAUDI on performances of new material
 involving the human voice (2016).

 Facilities

 The Music estate includes a dedicated concert hall, also appropriate for lecture recitals, which
 provides the centrepiece for many of our local research-related external engagement activities,
 especially musical performances. Its adjacency to our recording studio enables a range of
 performance projects to be recorded, released or streamed, as evidenced by the numerous
 recordings listed throughout this submission. Our other studio facilities are substantial and well
 regarded, and attest to our longstanding reputation and ongoing research expertise in this area.
 These spaces attract a continual flow of composers pursuing different forms of creative practice
 research. Regular investment ensures that both hardware and software remain appropriate for
 cutting-edge research. Over the period we have invested £321k in maintaining and refurbishing
 these studios (including £180k in 2016/17 to build a new one); refurbishment of three studios was
 planned for summer 2020 but delayed because of Covid-19. In total we have seven recording and
 composition studios, all of which are equipped to professional standards. The main recording
 studio has three live rooms and a 36-channel inline desk with Protools HD. The acoustically treated
 composition studios have 5.1 and 8.1 Genelec surround systems with SSL and Neve inline mixing
 consoles. Software in most studios includes Protools, Logic, VSL, Native Instruments Komplete,
 Izotope and Ableton Live. We also have four Mac labs with a total of 39 iMacs running a full range
 of industry-standard software, including MaxMSP, Supercollider, Adobe Creative Suite and
 Sibelius. A full-time Technical Director oversees the activities of the electronic music studios and
 a full-time music technician provides further support. This represents an increase in technical
 staffing from 1.6 to 2.0 FTE since 2014. These posts, together with our 0.6 performance officer,
 are crucial for our research activities in composition and performance.

 The University subscribes to over 300 music and music-related journals (many of these via
 JSTOR, Academic Search Complete, etc) as well as six audio/visual streaming databases such
 as Naxos Music Library, Smithsonian Global Sound and Classical Music in Video. Further
 resources include scores databases such as Nkoda and the Classical Scores Library, as well as
 specific training materials available via SAGE Research Methods Online and Linkedin Learning.
 Total library spend specifically for Music over the period was £122k. Our 2016 accession to the
 University of London has facilitated direct access to Senate House Library, the extensive music
 holdings of which are especially noted for collected editions and historical sets and particularly its
 foreign language holdings, thus facilitating easier access for our researchers to scholarship
 beyond the Anglo-American traditions. It has also provided additional online resources such as
 access to Proquest Dissertations.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Outputs and esteem

 The continuing vitality of our research culture since 2014 and its international reach and
 significance may be measured by the eight monographs or scholarly collections written or edited
 by staff; 33 papers in refereed journals together with 38 other contributory chapters; 75 new
 compositions written over the period and heard across 54 countries; 14 CDs released of music
 written by others; and 94 performances of new work or modern reconstructions given across 18
 countries. Additionally, we have given 19 keynote presentations and a further 168 papers at
 international conferences. These wide-ranging activities evidence global research leadership
 across many areas of a multi-faceted discipline and outstanding ‘research power’ generated by
 our 11.8 FTE staff.

 The quality of these outputs has been repeatedly recognised by international awards such as the
 2014 American Liszt Society’s Alan Walker Book Award (Loya), the 2015 AMIS Bessaraboff
 Prize (Cottrell), the 2016 BFE Book Prize (Nooshin), the 2019 SEM Helen Roberts Prize
 (Nooshin), and BASCA (2016) and ISCM (2019) composition awards (Molitor). Nooshin also
 contributed to Jazz Worlds/World Jazz, awarded the 2017 Ruth A. Solie Award from the AMS.
 Lingas’s extensive contribution to Byzantine music research has been recognised by the
 prestigious award of the title of Archon Mousikodidaskalos (Master Music Educator) of the Great
 Church of Christ from Bartholomew I, Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople. In a similar vein,
 Pace was the subject of a special edition of BBC Radio 3’s flagship new music programme Hear
 and Now on 06.10.18, produced to mark his 50th birthday; it remains the only time an entire
 episode has been devoted to the work of a single performer.

 This international eminence means that staff are frequently asked, through widespread
 reviewing work, to set research benchmarks and sustain the discipline on a global scale. This is
 evidenced by our work for international review bodies such as the Austrian Science Fund
 (Cottrell, Nooshin, Pace), the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD–Armstrong), the
 Hong Kong Research Grants Council (Armstrong, Cottrell), the Irish Research Council (Cottrell),
 and the Humanities Research Council of Canada and South Africa National Research
 Foundation (both Mera). Mera and Nooshin are D33 panel members for REF2020, a noteworthy
 distinction for a single department. Cottrell and Mera are members of the AHRC Peer Review
 College, while additional reviews have been undertaken for UK councils including the AHRC,
 ESRC, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust by Nooshin and Lingas. Other review activities
 include not only multiple assessments for most major publishers such as OUP, CUP, Routledge,
 Yale, etc. but also reviews for more than 40 different academic journals, as diverse as JAMS,
 Ethnomusicology, Early Music, JRMA, Journal of Musicology, Organised Sound, etc. This work
 has been augmented by the examination of PhD candidates in Australia (Cottrell, Mera, Pace),
 Canada (Pace), France (Lingas), Ireland (Mera), Spain (Mera), Sweden (Cottrell) and the USA
 (Lingas). Staff have acted as external examiners on a further 34 occasions within the UK, for all
 the leading research-intensive institutions. The research expertise that we bring to these
 assessments, and the regularity with which staff are asked to provide them, reflects core
 strengths embedded within the department which then shape the discourse of music research
 internationally.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Contributions to the research base

 We further sustain the discipline through our international engagement with journals, scholarly
 organisations and academic conferences. Editorial work is extensive and again reflects the
 spread of expertise we can offer. Journals for which staff act on the editorial board include Music
 Analysis (Loya), JRMA (Mera), Ethnomusicology Forum (Nooshin), Plainsong and Medieval
 Music (Lingas), and most major film music journals including Music and the Moving Image,
 Music, Sound and the Moving Image, and the Journal of Film Music (Mera). Individuals evidence
 further research leadership through their committee work with a range of scholarly organisations
 such as the SMA (Loya, Pace), RMA (Nooshin—VP since Jan 2020), NAMHE (Mera) and RAI
 (Cottrell). Staff members have been on the scientific committees of, for example, several
 EuroMAC conferences (Loya), AAWM 2018 (Greece–Nooshin), ‘Tracking the Creative Process
 in Music’ 2019 (Portugal–Nooshin and Mera), Sound and Music Computing 2014-17 (Armstrong)
 and the 2020 International Conference on Technologies for Music Notation and Representation
 (TENOR) (Germany–Einbond).

 At home we have leveraged our central London location and our excellent facilities for the
 benefit of the international research community by hosting a range of high-profile events; these
 are supported by us logistically through the time invested by many staff and doctoral researchers
 and, often, financially, through the allocation of monies from our Research and Ethics
 Committee. Some of these reinforce the areas of research specialism outlined in #1, such as
 ‘Urban Ethnomusicology’ (2014) and ‘Music, Sound, Space and Place’ (2019), the latter a joint
 conference between the BFE and the Société française d'ethnomusicologie (both conferences
 co-convened by Nooshin and Cottrell). Our developing disciplinary leadership in music analysis
 is evidenced by our hosting of CityMAC2018 (Loya—in association with the SMA) and the
 scheduled hosting of the TAGS day in April 2020, ultimately postponed because of Covid-19;
 Pace also led a study day for SMA PGRs on relationships between music analysis and
 performance in November 2019.

 Our international expertise in the relationships between scholarship and practice has been
 manifested in other conferences, such as ‘Music with the Real’ (2015—funded by the Norwegian
 Artistic Research Programme and convened by Armstrong); and ‘Michael Finnissy at 70’ (2017–
 Pace). At many of these conferences we investigate these relationships further by programming
 concerts that augment or illuminate differently the oral presentations. For example, the City
 Pierrot Players gave the London premiere of Simeon ten Holt’s Canto Ostinato (1976) at the
 ‘Again and Again’ conference in 2019. Similarly, SPARC organised a sound art concert (curated
 by post-doc Sam Mackay) for the BFE conference in 2019, thus providing creative practice
 interrogations of ‘Music, Sound, Space and Place’.

 Collaborations

 We provide logistical and financial support for other networks and partnerships as needed. For
 example, Nooshin’s ongoing convening of the Middle East and Central Asia Music Forum has
 been based at City since 2014. Established by her in 2007 and currently run jointly with SOAS,
 the Forum is a leading international network that plays an important disciplinary role for both
 established scholars and doctoral researchers/ECRs working on music in the Middle East and
 Central Asia. Another marker of successful research collaborations/networks can be seen in the
 edited volumes that have arisen from them. Cottrell’s co-edited volume on Desert Island Discs

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2017) arose from a British Academy conference organised with other researchers (Julie Brown,
 Nicholas Cook) in 2013. Pace’s co-edited volume on Critical Perspectives on Michael Finnissy
 (2019—with Nigel McBride) has its roots in a conference hosted at City in 2017 and he has also
 collaborated with Christopher Wiley (Surrey) on Researching and Writing on Contemporary Art
 and Artists (2020). Mera’s Routledge Companion to Screen Music and Sound (2017) similarly
 has its roots in longstanding collaborations with academic colleagues elsewhere, Ron Sadoff
 (NYU) and Ben Winters (OU).

 Practice-based research collaborations are a particular strength and again demonstrate our
 international reach. Pace has collaborated with many composers to produce new piano
 repertoire based on critical scholarly reflection, including—among many others—Brian
 Ferneyhough, James Dillon, Michael Finnissy, Christopher Fox, Sam Hayden and Walter
 Zimmermann. Indeed, the occasion of Pace’s 50th birthday was marked by new works written for
 him by 23 composers. Lingas’s work as director of Cappella Romana provides a similar example
 of longstanding, scholarship-led performance collaboration. The group has several ongoing
 international relationships: with Chaig Utidjian of Charles University, Prague, exploring ties
 between Greek and Armenian chanting during the late Ottoman period, and especially with
 Stanford University on the Icons of Sound project, noted above.

 Further creative practice collaborations are evidenced by Einbond’s ongoing work at IRCAM in
 Paris, where he participated in a STARTS (Science + Technology + Arts) Residency in 2019-20,
 supported by the STARTS EU Horizon 2020; and a UPI (Unité Projet Innovation) in 2018, which
 has led to novel research and compositions for instruments and three-dimensional ambisonic
 sound, and software tools freely-distributed through the IRCAM Forum. He is also Co-Artistic
 Director of Qubit New Music Initiative in New York, with whom he has produced sound and new
 media events since 2014, funded by several US organisations. Molitor’s various installations
 have seen her work with Turner Contemporary, the British Library, the Totally Thames Festival,
 and Somerset House. Armstrong is the Co-artistic Director, with Juliet Fraser and Mark Knoop, of
 the record label All That Dust. Releases on the label since it started in 2018 have received
 widespread critical acclaim, including a nomination in the Preis der Deutschen Schallplatten
 Kritik, several listings in end-of-year ‘Top 10’ lists (e.g. BBC Radio 3 ‘Hear and Now’, The Wire),
 multiple broadcasts (e.g. BBC Radio 3, ORF–Austria, France Musique), and numerous positive
 reviews. Rennie is the resident composer-performer for the Insectotròpics audio-visual
 performing arts collective, based in Spain.

 Within the university we work closely with a range of professional ensembles, providing concert
 platforms for them and engaging them with both staff and PGR research. Ensembles with whom
 we have a particularly close association include Plus-Minus (Armstrong is a member) and
 EXAUDI. Both regularly premiere works in our concert series. For example, on 25.05.16
 EXAUDI gave first performances of works by Armstrong and Mera, before giving premieres of
 works by Armstrong and Molitor at LSO St Luke’s later the same year (23.10.16). Other artists
 have presented the outputs of staff research as part of our concert activities: for example, Zubin
 Kanga premiered a multi-media work by Molitor in May 2018, and Einbond has similarly worked
 closely with visiting US groups such as Yarn/Wire in the performance of new work.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Extending our impact footprint

 Our extensive impact work is manifested in other major projects beyond those listed in REF3.
 Griffiths’ research on the music of Leokadiya Kashperova (Stravinsky’s piano teacher),
 financially supported by us, led to the discovery of her long-forgotten symphony. It was
 performed at St Luke’s, London, by the BBC Concert Orchestra on 08.03.18 as part of the
 BBC/AHRC Forgotten Female Composers project and broadcast live on Radio 3 to celebrate
 International Women’s Day. Nooshin’s research into Iranian music culture has similarly
 benefitted from £17.8k of direct support from the institution in addition to £29k raised from Arts
 Council England. Collaborating with Tiny Owl publishers, her research facilitated the production
 of a newly commissioned children’s picture book, The Phoenix of Persia, with original music
 created by Iranian musicians. The book was launched at the British Library and the project
 included 28 educational events and the development of a teacher resource pack, educational
 website and 25 school library boxes distributed by Tower Hamlets Library Service to school
 library services nationally and via these to schools across the country. In 2019, the project
 reached over 5,000 children, families and educators through book sales, online music, events
 and workshops, as well as an online and media reach of over 350,000. By September 2020 the
 book had sold 2,736 copies in the UK and 1,130 copies in the USA.

 Pace has worked extensively with figures in the legal, psychological and educational fields in his
 ongoing work on abuse in musical education, for which he was an expert academic witness for
 the International Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse (IICSA) in 2019. In addition to writings for The
 Daily Telegraph (20.02.15) and The Conversation (24.02.15) he has chronicled and analysed
 this field in detail on his blog and has appeared on multiple occasions on all major UK broadcast
 news programmes (e.g. Sky News 09.07.15, BBC News 30.03.16). He has given a range of
 other media interviews (e.g. Radio 4 Today programme 07.07.14) and advised Members of
 Parliament such as Tom Watson and Lucy Powell. He has also submitted a substantial historical
 analysis and critique of UK specialist music education and wider cases of abuse in the classical
 music world to IICSA as part of the ongoing inquiry, which will report in 2021.



 Walls on Walls, a collaboration between Rennie and artist Laurie Nouchka, has provided
 community-building projects involving music and visual art in several public spaces: the
 Lansbury Estate in Tower Hamlets (in conjunction with the V&A museum), Lismore Circus and
 Camelot House in Camden (in conjunction with Camden Council), and five other installations.
 Rennie’s research expertise in using environmental sounds for the purpose of artistic expression
 helps facilitate these site-specific works, albeit that they are conceived, created and
 authored by local participants. Rennie has been supported with £9k of internal funding
 towards the project, in addition to £75k raised externally.




                                                                                             Page 15
