Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cumbria (UoC)

 Unit of Assessment: UOA3: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 How is Research Structured across the UOA

 1.1.1 Context

 This unit undertakes research that focuses on major health challenges faced by our society. Our
 researchers investigate diagnostic and therapeutic interventions across several allied health
 professions, consequent implications for health and social care, healthy ageing, and improving
 effective patient communication in support of wellbeing.

 Building on a strong track record, the unit reflects the university’s long association with health and
 social care professions since the formation of St Martin’s College, Lancaster in 1964, from which
 the University of Cumbria (UoC) later developed. Latterly, this has been supported by the
 institution’s submission to REF2014, which included:

    Allied Health Professions (3FTE) - 49% assessed at 3* and above, and 94% at 2* and above.
    Sport and Exercise Sciences (6FTE) - 22% submission being 3* and above, and 14% at 4*.

 This platform has enabled UoC to grow research into related areas, and for REF2021, UoC will
 be submitting over three times as many staff in health-related UOAs, compared to REF2014
 (across UOA3 and UOA20). The REF2021 submission for UOA3 now includes sport science staff
 previously submitted to UOA24 and in total includes 17 staff and 11.1 FTE.

 Researchers named in bold are Category A staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR,
 see UoC REF2021 Code of Practice, 2.10) and those in bold and italics are individuals who left
 UoC during the REF assessment period. Individuals in plain are non-submitted UoC staff –
 including staff with ‘emerging responsibility for research’ (ERR, see UoC REF2021 Code of
 Practice, 2.12), Research Assistants (RA), Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) and
 honorary/retired staff. Names followed by a number (e.g. Donovan1) cross reference to REF2
 outputs.

 1.1.2 Strategic achievements enhancing research culture and environment

 Since REF2014, and against the five year strategic objectives outlined in the 2014 UOA3
 Environment Statement, two principal achievements include the formation of the:

        ‘Institute of Health’ in 2018 (IoH) - uniting all of UoCs health and social care programmes
         and encompassing nursing, social work/care, midwifery, sports science, psychology,
         medical sciences, and paramedic.

        ‘Centre for Research in Health and Society’ in 2019 (CRiHS) - bringing together
         research excellence, experience, and resource to improve the vitality (through critical mass
         of researchers, and coherence of research expertise) and sustainability (through
         coordination of researcher development) of the research environment and culture. The
         Centre Director and Theme Leads additionally ensure quality assurance, research
         integrity, and effective communication across research active staff in the IoH to increase
         high quality academic outputs, research income and impact (REF5a, 1).




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.1.3 Centre for Research in Health and Society (CRiHS) and Research Themes

 CRiHS’ vision is the: “Positive transformation of health and social outcomes for all through applied
 scholarship, research and knowledge exchange, leading to excellence in health and social care
 practice locally, nationally and internationally.”

 CRiHS has three overarching research areas, and associated themes. Only researchers in the
 Applied Health Research area are being submitted to UOA3.

       Applied Health Research, digital health, medical imaging, healthy ageing, rebailitation
        and healthy lives.
       Applied Social Science Research – healthy relationships, trauma informed work,
        understanding society, culture and behaviour, communities (UOA20).
       Health and Society Knowledge Exchange (HASKE) - a dedicated unit leading research
        and evaluation commissions, bidding and tendering, and workforce development (the
        HASKE Co-Leads are submitted to UOA20, but provide support to UOA3 staff.

 Fig 1. demonstrates the CRiHS research themes returned to REF2021 (across UOA3 with UOA20
 for comparison), and the focus of this unit’s Category A/SRR staff. See Section 1.3 for aims and
 objectives to grow research excellence across each of CRiHS’ themes. Staff in Medical Imaging
 (MI) and Digital Health (DIGH) are also being returned to UOA20.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research themes submitted in this unit include:

        Healthy ageing (HA) - conducting applied research to understand the nature of ageing
         and to promote practices and service design to ensure ageing is healthy and enjoyable,
         including injury prevention. It includes biomedical research, particularly in relation to
         cardiac research and structural biology.
        Medical Imaging (MI) – researching sonography, radiography, and ultrasound. Research
         in social issues in medical imaging is returned in UOA20. Research in this theme is
         concerned with issues of image perception and visual search as well as fetal eye
         movements.
        Rehabilitation and Healthy Lives (RAHL) – research on cccupational therapy, sport and
         physiotherapy, including education, pratice development and placements, as well as work
         in forensic settings (prisons and secure units).
        Digital Health (DIGH) - concerned with digital applications, tech solutions, independence
         and empowerment. Emerging from the Cumbrian Centre for Health Technologies (2014-
         2018, REF5a, 2.1). The theme works collaboratively with industry and practice on
         technology adoption and new services.

 This unit is supported by additional structures (Section 3 provides further details) including:

        Health and Society Knowledge Exchange, emerging in 2019 from the Health and Social
         Care Evaluation Unit (2016-2018). Enhances research culture by enabling a number of
         staff to gain skills and experience in supporting, bidding for and delivering externally
         funded research projects.
        The North East North Cumbria Applied Research Collaboration (NENC ARC) and the
         National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) North East and North Cumbria Research
         Design Service (NENC RDS); supporting staff to design and seek external funding for
         research, and to access regionally distributed funding.

 1.1.4 CRiHS Contribution to Research Culture and Environment

 The establishment of CRiHS marks a turning point for Institute of Health (IoH) and a step change
 in research capability and capacity. CRiHS provides a centralised, resource for all research active
 staff in the) creating:

        A single PGR community (10 UOA3, 24 UOA20) that facilitates extended opportunities for
         internal/external networking, promotes sharing of skills and training opportunities, and
         signals to a research ‘culture’ that supports future researchers for sustainability of the
         discipline.
        Recognition to areas of research excellence, empowering academics to pursue research
         projects under the auspices of CRiHS and to do so in a collaborative and supportive
         environment.
        Additional capacity through coordination and leadership, and capability through sharing of
         knowledge, skills and experience.
        A focal point for internal research activity through public lectures, seminar series, Work in
         Progress seminars for new and established researchers, thematic discussions, research
         and development training sessions and hubs for PhD students.




                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Performance against REF2014 Objectives and Objectives 2021-2028
 This unit has made significant progress against the REF2014 strategic objectives, reviewed below.
       Supervisory capacity has increased through staff recruitment and development –
        this has enabled extension of the programme within sport, exercise science, physiotherapy
        and biomedicine. Four additional research active staff have been recruited. Two submitted
        staff and two staff with ‘emerging responsibility for research’ (ERR) have achieved PhD’s
        (Section 2).
       Enhanced stakeholder engagement has generated new research and impacts –
        enabled through close working with major NHS Trust partners (Impact0301 and
        Impact0302) and the newly established NENC ARC and NENC RDS. The UOA has the
        support of a PVC (Health, Environment and Innovation) who is Chair of Council of Deans
        for Health (Webster-Henderson). Researchers are actively involved in various stakeholder
        networks, particularly both Academic Health Science Networks (AHSNs) for North West
        Coast (NWC) (Reid and Sapsford), and for North East - North Cumbria (NENC).
       Externally funded research has increased across the two health UOAs – this unit has
        returned £357,815 of HESA-returned research income across the assessment period
        (£550,000 in REF2014). However, when including CRiHS researchers in UOA20 (a new
        UOA for REF2021), over £1.5m of research income has been generated across the CRiHS
        research themes.
       Collaborative relationships and partnerships have increased - Staff within this unit
        have developed national and international collaborations with a number of other higher
        education institutions. This has led to a 52% increase in research publications across the
        assessment period for staff aligned to UOA3. £36,631 has been invested in unit staff
        through the internal research fund.
       Support for PGR students has been improved – this has focused on increasing PGR
        support in health domains (across UOA3 and UOA20) with 13 PGR completions across
        the assessment period. 34 PGRs are currently aligned to the Institute of Health.
       Funding has been used to support PGR development – this includes two QR funded
        studentships in this unit (Hampson, Yasar) to complement an externally funded
        studentship (Thomas, Eleanor Peel Trust), supporting PGRs to develop academic careers.
       Focussed growth in Occupational Therapy (OT) - OT has long been a teaching strength
        and, since 2014, development of a complementary research activity has been strategically
        supported. The work of Morris, Cox, Youngson and Wilby is now externally recognised
        and three staff with emerging responsibility for research have been supported to complete
        PhDs. There are four occupational therapists currently completing their PhDs within the
        Occupational Therapy Hub of researchers. In addition to staff PhDs, since 2014, five OT’s
        have completed part-time PhDs.

 1.3 Research Strategy 2021-2028
 CRiHS has the following strategic aims between 2019-2024:
     To embed a culture of high quality scholarship and research
     To increase research capability and quality for students, staff, partners
     To seek, develop and maintain meaningful engagement and collaborations with internal
       and external partnerships
     To develop a strong and positive CRiHS brand and reputation internally and externally
     To increase health and society research and enterprise income
     To maintain a dialogical relationship between research activities and operating
       environment.
 These provide the basis for the research within UOA3 to be strengthened. In particular, we will
 seek to maintain research leadership across all the unit themes, supporting colleagues with
 emerging research responsibilities.

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Specifically, we plan to strengthen work around other professions, particularly nursing and
 physiotherapy, where there are opportunities to engage with external stakeholders. UoC hosts a
 nationally significant Centre for Paramedic Practice, providing undergraduate and postgraduate
 education for all but one of the UK’s Ambulance Services. Through links with the NIHR ARC
 programme, research interests will be developed with key staff.


 1.4 Enabling Impact
 Underpinned by UoC’s strategic intent to “contribute to the social, cultural and economic well-
 being and prosperity of our communities”, this unit ensures that impact is integral to research
 activity. The CRiHS Director (Stuart [UOA20]) provides impact training sessions. UKRI/Research
 England guidelines and REF Impact Case Study templates are used to help staff understand and
 articulate research impact beyond academia. The Director, Theme Leads, and members of the
 Professoriate provide one-to-one research mentoring. The Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Office (RKEO) also support stakeholder engagement for impact generation. (REF5a, 4).

 Unit staff are supported to consider the impact of their research through guidance, mentoring and
 targeted use of the Internal Research Fund (supported via QR funding). Within this UOA,
 examples include funding for: Morris to disseminate a new occupational engagement tool (2016)
 and engage with users (Impact0302); Donovan to attend European Conference of European
 Conference of Eye Movements (2017) and discuss the impact of his research findings with
 stakeholders (Impact0301); and Booth for engagement with the Society and College of
 Radiographers, leading to changes in clinical practice guideline documents on caring for patients
 with dementia (reserve ICS).


 1.5 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
 Achieving research outcomes and impact demands interdisciplinary working, and CRiHS
 structures enable this through regular cross-institution research events (seminars and
 presentations) and other forms of engagement and staff interactions. This promotes collaboration
 with other active researchers from diverse fields. Evidence of success in this area include:

       MI – where innovative cross-disciplinary studies have been undertaken drawing on
        expertise in social psychology to enhance the understanding of clinical practice in medical
        imaging.
       RAHL – researchers have engaged with social science researchers on occupational
        therapy within secure settings, and in relation to specific health challenges including
        chronic fatigue, and muscular skeletal disorders.
       HA – researchers have worked collaboratively with psychology staff on psychological-
        emotional experience data for marathon running and on rapid weight loss practices in
        combative sports. This unit’s outputs for Kontziampasis demonstrate significant
        interdisciplinarity across engineering, biomedical and physics disciplines.
       DIGH – researchers have combined health techniques with digital innovations and
        industrial uses. Reid undertook research with Bidmead and Marshall (UOA20) on
        workforce attitudes and perceptions of video-conferencing for remote diagnosis of
        dysphagia. This study has contributed also to an ICS submitted in UOA20.

 Seven staff within this UOA supervise PhDs with colleagues being submitted in different UOAs.
 CRiHS proactively facilitates interdisciplinary research through its series of seven ‘cross-cutting’
 themes with leads outside the IoH.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Supporting an Open Access Environment

 IoH and unit Staff are encouraged to submit research into peer reviewed journals that have at
 least some level of open access, and CRiHS leadership and thematic groups support and enable
 this. Within this unit in particular, and in the context of the very applied and practitioner based
 nature of the work, this is even more important. Colleagues within RKEO and those working within
 the institutional repository support staff with decisions about journals to ensure open access
 options. CRiHS hosted six open access seminars (2018-2020) with audiences of between 10 and
 50 per seminar.

 Unit staff also disseminate their work widely through public lectures and events and through the
 media, which leads to increased engagement with the research. Full details are provided in
 Section 4, with examples below including:

        HA - Bampouras has given several public outreach talks to various branches of the
         University of the Third Age, Age UK, and an event entitled Active Ageing around the Bay.
         Hayes’ study of exercise training improving free testosterone in lifelong sedentary men
         was used in an article in the New York Times. Spain’s work contribution to an MRC funded
         project (‘Noisy Knees’) examined a new way of diagnosing and assessing knee
         osteoarthritis, receiving coverage in The I, The Engineer and Orthopaedic News.
        MI - Donovan’s work examining the visual perception of babies in the womb at the
         ultrasound laboratory in Lancaster and at Blackpool Victoria Hospital featured in Discovery
         Magazine’s list of 100 discoveries in 2019, and was widely publicised locally.


 1.7 Supporting Research Integrity

 Two members of this unit have specialist expertise in ethics. Cox has been a member of the Ethics
 Board for three EU Horizon 2020 programmes. Booth was Chair of the NHS Research Ethics
 Committee 12 (North West – Lancaster) from 2006-2017. She leads on teaching research ethics
 to PGRs as provides guidance and mentoring to both PGRS and staff applying to the NHS
 Research Ethics Committee.

 Ethics compliance at UoC is centrally managed through the Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Office (REF5a, 3.1). Cox, as Director of Research, chairs the University Ethics Committee and
 Booth advised on the design of processes. Within UOA3, the majority of research programmes
 additionally go through NHS ethical procedures.

 The CRiHS structure and theme leads ensure research integrity and adherence to the Concordat,
 through CRiHS training workshops (for example, sessions on writing good research proposals),
 interdisciplinary Work in Progress seminars and providing a ‘critical friend’ role to researchers
 developing their projects. CRiHS thematic discussion groups enable research integrity to be
 discussed openly.

 In addition to the support provided by CRiHS, UoC provides a centrally delivered ‘Research Skills
 Development Programme’, and ‘Summer School’, open to PGRs as well as staff. This includes
 sessions delivered by eight UOA3 staff, including induction, thesis construction, ethics, mixed
 methods, PhD transfer and mixed media arts. Five unit staff have been involved in supervisor
 training.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 People are at the centre of our planning and goal setting. There has been a steady increase in
 staff involvement in research, made possible and nurtured by strategic actions. Within this unit,
 many staff are drawn from careers in clinical practice, moving into teaching in mid-career, often
 from senior clinical or management positions. Supporting them to develop critical research skills
 requires a varied approach, with flexibility to enable each person to identify their own path.

 CRiHS is a vehicle for leadership and advocacy of research. The approach is supportive and
 facilitative, with regular communications. A monthly newsletter shares opportunities for grant
 bidding or collaboration. Staff are encouraged to attend webinars and to seek advice/mentorship.
 Management time has been underwritten by the university, to provide time for the director (Stuart,
 1FTE) and theme leads (Miller, Grimwood – 0.2FTE, all UOA20). The unit’s overall staff
 recruitment and development strategy is outlined below.

 2.1.1. Strategically recruit staff with research and impact experience to enhance CRiHS themes

 There is a successful recruitment strategy to broaden research and support impact across the
 themes. In HA, Spain was recruited as Lecturer in 2018, joining from Lancaster University (as a
 post-doctoral researcher); and Kontziampasis to Lecturer in 2019 from the University of Sheffield
 (as Teaching Associate), becoming Senior Lecturer and Programme Lead for Engineering in 2020.
 Hayes was recruited in 2015 from London Met as Lecturer (becoming Senior Lecturer 2018) and
 Howe in 2017 as Lecturer. In RAHL, Benham was recruited as Lecturer in 2017, becoming Senior
 Lecturer and Professional Lead for Physiotherapy in 2018.

 These appointments targeted key research within this unit, reflected in the themes of CRiHS. New
 emphasis on research has increased applications to advertised posts. Some key appointments of
 research active staff have recently been made in physiotherapy and sports science (Smith,
 Armstrong, employed after census date).

 2.1.2. Support and enable staff progression

 Of our Category A staff, all but one are on permanent contracts. Nine unit staff have been retained
 across the assessment period, evidencing continuity and staff development, and four unit staff
 were recruited with PhDs and research experience. For many staff, the first step on their research
 journey is to register and complete a PhD, and as of 31 July 2020, 6 non-submitted staff in UOA3
 are registered PGRs.

 Research activities are embedded within the staff progression system, with a bi-annual round for
 application for professorial and associate professorial titles. Donovan became Associate
 Professor in 2014 and Bampouras Associate Professor in 2017. Morris became a Principal
 Lecturer in 2017.

 Dewhurst left UoC in 2017 to become a Senior Scientific Officer at the Ministry of Defence, and
 has subsequently progressed to Principal Academic (Exercise Physiology and Deputy Head of
 Department) at Bournemouth University. Bampouras left the University in 2018 to become a
 Lecturer in Biomechanics at Lancaster University, but remains a UoC Visiting Research Fellow.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.3. Offer researcher development programmes to support staff in their research careers.

 CRiHS ensures that early and mid-career researchers and postdocs are integrated into the
 research culture. This is enabled through wider development work (e.g., doctoral summer schools,
 development workshops), and in interdisciplinary research. CRiHS ‘Work in Progress’ seminars,
 theme discussions, tender workshops and guest lectures, support staff to develop research ideas.
 Staff are also supported with academic writing retreats (facilitated by the Professoriate), student
 socials and PGR led writing events (e.g., weekly “shut up and write sessions”).

 As evidence of staff development, in RAHL, Morris, since achieving PhD in 2012, has progressed
 to a senior leader within UoC, with five current PhD students, and authoring an Impact Case Study
 for this unit. Youngson was a PGR bursary student, achieving PhD in 2017 and joining the staff
 team shortly after. She is now lead supervisor for one PGRs and on two other supervisory teams.
 Benham was a cohort of the 2019 Future Leaders Leadership Development Programme. Overall,
 this unit has invested £46,971 in sabbatical leave, enabling staff to undertake research projects
 and/or complete PhDs (REF5a, 3.1).

 Category A unit staff have full representation on the University’s Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Committee (REF5a, 1). Staff from 2014 have been retained and developed (Cox,
 Donovan, Phillips), whilst the much-enlarged FTE in the submission evidences the unit’s
 increasing vitality of research outcomes and impact. The establishment of more formalised
 structures, such as CRiHS will embed this further. Technical staff work within our laboratory
 facilities, discussed in more detail in Section 3.

 2.1.4. Utilise and promote HR processes to encourage all staff to engage in research.

 All staff within IoH now write Research and Scholarly Activity plans (RASA) with their line
 managers. These are collated by the CRiHS Executive Team, enabling staff development
 activities to be effectively planned and research opportunities to be targeted. CRiHS structures
 utilise the Performance and Professional Development Review (PPDR) process (REF5a, 3.1) to
 support staff to progress in their careers.

 Staff are encouraged to sign up to research mentorship, organised centrally via RKEO. Mentoring,
 in addition to the CRiHS structures, also supports adherence to the Concordat principles. UoC
 achieved the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2016 (with Cox serving on the steering group),
 and the award was retained in 2020. Donovan, Morris, Cox, Reid, Wilby, Bampouras are (or
 have served as) research mentors (for central support see REF5a, 3.1).

 Cox and Donovan support and mentor staff applying for research funding, publishing, or new to
 PhD supervision. Cox became UoC’s Director of Research in 2014 and therefore supports unit
 staff to engage in research programmes. The unit will support a number of researchers with
 emerging responsibility for research across the next assessment cycle, including Sapsford,
 Wilson, Pemberton, Nelson and Bolton. In Radiography, Booth has already begun to support
 Bolton to publish research (Radiography and Ultrasound).

 2.1.5. Utilise a network of visiting and honorary staff, and Professors of Practice to embed work
 with industry.

 UOA3 utilises a network of Research Fellows, Honorary Professors, Researchers and Professors
 of Practice to facilitate academic and business exchanges:
       Glynn Shentall, Visiting Professor Radiotherapy Physics, (public lectures)
       George Krasopoulos, Visiting Professor of Cardiac Surgery (public lectures)
       Leon Jonker, Visiting Research Fellow (research methods)
       Prof Shirley Reveley, Emeritus Professor (co-publishing of outputs)
       Dr Andrew Turnell, Professor of Practice (public lectures)
       Associate Professor Joanne HUDSON, Visiting Fellow (research conference contribution)

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CRiHS and the IoH have created a more sustainable research community with formalised
 structures increasing capacity and extending capability. CRiHS events, including visiting lectures,
 workshops, and staff presentations, are open to level 6 and level 7 students, in addition to staff.


 2.2 Research Students

 The unit provides opportunities for high quality training and supervision, with a pipeline of active
 and integrated researchers fully encouraged to engage within the research and practice
 community. PGR development happens through support from supervisors, access to Graduate
 School opportunities, and engagement with CRiHS (e.g. regular CRiHS PGR coffee meetings).

 An important policy has been to use external funding for PGRs, supplemented by use of QR
 funding to support the development of the research themes in UOA3.

       In HA, a group of PGRs investigated factors on fall risk of older adults. A QR-funded
        studentship (Yasar) was provided to Hayes to complement studentship funding from the
        Eleanor Peel Trust (Thomas) (Section 3), and research assistant post (Smallwood). Yasar
        completed his PhD on sprint training for older adults in 2020 under the supervision of
        Hayes and Dewhurst, leading to publications and an international conference
        presentation. QR funding also provided a fees only studentship to Ejuoneaste
        (Bampouras as supervisor) to explore narratives of historically physically active women of
        60+ years following total hip replacement surgery for osteoarthritis. This has led to a
        systematic review registration with PROSPERO. See Bampouras1&2 for evidence of
        publishing with PGRs (Thomas lead author on both papers).

       In RAHL, Cox has supervised three of this unit’s staff to completion (Morris, Youngson
        and Wilby) as further evidence of successful supervision. Successfully completed PhD
        students (non-staff) are now in roles at the Yorkshire Fatigue Clinic (Therapy Director) and
        at Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (Consulting Specialist).

       In MI, Donovan has supervised one of this unit’s staff to completion (Sapsford). In addition,
        he supervised Thomas, who is now employed as a Research Fellow in Biomechanics and
        Brain & Behaviour at Liverpool John Moores University.

 Across the unit, PGRs have been supported by supervisors to publish widely and to present on
 an international scale (e.g. British Journal of School Nursing, Journal of Social Sciences and
 Humanities). CRiHS recently launched a regular webinar programme, delivered by invited guest
 speakers, featuring research on health professions pedagogy, cancer care nursing, public health,
 health inequalities, and mental health.

 The unit provides all PGRs with opportunities to contribute to the vitality of the unit.

 Unit staff utilise their networks and collaborations to facilitate a research environment and culture
 that is conducive to a healthy and stimulating research environment. Across the HA and MI theme,
 this has included a number of events. For example, the Active Ageing Symposium, held
 consecutively for four years (Donovan, Dewhurst and Bampouras as organisers), attracted
 international speakers and national delegates (average 40 per year), including PGRs and
 practitioners in healthy ageing and medical imaging. The 2017 event was held in collaboration
 with the University of Rome Foro Italico with guest speakers including Visiting Research Fellow
 Hudson and Professor Andrea Macaluso, from the Foro Italico. Macaluso was Visiting Professor
 and delivered a series of talks. The 2019 event was organised jointly with Lancaster University’s
 Centre for Ageing with contributions from academics and practitioners (including Visiting Fellow,
 Askapan).




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs in this theme have been supported to present research at European College of Sport
 Sciences Annual Congress and to co-author in journals including Human Movement Science, the
 Journal of Electromyography and Kinesiology, Experimental Brain Research and MDPI Sports.
 Smallwood was awarded the Dale Scholar Grant from Simpson University, US, to enable her to
 study in the UK.

 In RAHL, close alignment with professional institutes has been effective. For example, Perryman-
 Fox, supervised by Cox and Morris was selected to be a visiting scholar at the University of
 Wisconsin and has received the Elizabeth Casson Trust Award for two consecutive years (2018,
 2019). The award is intended for UK occupational therapists to reorient their careers and lift
 themselves to a higher professional level. This has enabled researchers in this theme to engage
 with a wide international network, with Perryman-Fox regularly contributing to related seminars
 and research events for other researchers and staff in this field.

 CRiHS offers an opportunity for PGR annual reviews where research in progress is presented –
 now formalised as part of the end of year review process. All candidates are invited and supported
 to present their research at Research Summer School. The approach to PGR recruitment has
 contributed to developing the academic expertise and reputation of supervisors. A high-level
 commentary on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion data for this unit’s PGRs has been provided
 below.

  Table 1. EDI Data for UOA3 PGRs
  Key consideration           Unit Considerations/Actions
  55% under the age of 39.    Important to maintain skills training and opportunities for younger
                              researchers whilst integrating the experiences of older PGRs.
  73% female and 27% male     Higher proportion of PGRs are female, compared to staff pool
                              (Table 2), all supervisors have completed unconscious bias
                              training (UBT)
  18% BAME                    Positive figure in relation to staff pool, all supervisors have
                              completed UBT.
  36% declared disability     Unit staff made aware of institutional structures to support health
                              and wellbeing, including signposting to Disability Officers.
  9% LGB                      Reflective of staff pool, encouragement of PGRs to engage in
                              institutional networks.
  63% part-time               Ensure that part-time PGRs engage with unit activities, and if in
                              practice, their experiences contribute to unit vitality.


 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 Within our research portfolio, a number of staff specifically work on the health of excluded groups.
 For example, Morris and Cox have researched men living in secure mental health units. Morris
 has also served as Research and Development Lead for Mental Health as part of a specialist
 section of the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT) from 2013-19. Youngson has
 provided professional supervision for Occupational Therapists at Growing Well – a mental health
 charity and organic fruit & veg farm and training centre in Kendal. This unit aspires to transfer the
 learning into our culture to ensure that all staff are given the support required for them to develop.

 Analysis of EDI data for Unit staff is presented in Table 2. below and includes commentary on how
 this relates to output selection. Throughout preparation of our submission, Equality Impact
 Assessments (see REF Code of Practice, 1.8 for schedule) have been analysed to inform this
 process. Table 2 indicates a number of areas where actions need to be focused, but overall is
 considered representative of the institution, the health sector and the geographic context. This
 data has been presented to the CRIHS Management Team, within the Institute of Health Senior
 Leadership Team, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Health, Environment and Innovation) and Head of
 HR to inform action and strategy. The strategy for improvement over the future period will include:


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Workshops on EDI led by CRIHS Director Stuart (UOA20), Professor of Social and Health
         Inequalities and a leading expert in empowerment and agency;
        Regular reviews of staff data to identify areas of imbalance, with agreed positive actions
         as required;
        Targeted provision of individual support and mentoring.


  Table 2. EDI Data for Unit Staffing and Output Selection (PNTS: Prefer not to say)
  Category      %     Considerations                        Proposed Actions
 Age
 <= 39          31    A high proportion of staff have Development of a strategy to engage
 40-49          31    clinical careers before joining staff earlier in their careers in
 50-59          25    academia. Output pool has higher researcher development.
                      proportion of >60s.
 >=60           13
 Gender
 Female         56    Representationally more balanced Ensure support available for all staff
 Male           44    than NHS workforce (75% in the IoH to engage in research
                      female). Output pool has higher activities.
                      male’s representation (61%).
 Orientation
 LGBT+          13    Reflective      of      institutional Promote institutional EDI initiatives.
 HET            81    percentage.  Output   pool  has 7% CRiHS Director to deliver specific EDI
 PNTS           6     LGB   representation.                 sessions as part of skills and training.
 Religion
 Religious      25    No conclusions.                       Cross-reference with institutional
 Non-Religious 75                                           developments and existing network,
 PNTS           0                                           and consider promoting more widely.
 Ethnicity
 White           100 No BAME representation. 5% Consider positive action statement as
 BAME            0   colleagues are BME institutionally. area of under representation.
 Other           0                                       Acknowledge that this will take time.
                                                         Noted as a priority for CRIHS Director
                                                         and IoH Leadership.
 Disability
 Declared       19     Representative of       institution. Positive figures, demonstrating that
 No             81     Output pool reflects proportions.    staff are made aware of support and
 Declaration                                                are able to research productively.
 PNTS           0
 Contract
 Full Time (FT) 81     Potentially hard to be research        Ensure all members of staff complete
 Part Time (PT) 19     active on part time contract. 11%      a research plan, approved by their
                       of outputs attributable to part time   line manager; empowering PT staff to
                       staff.                                 utilise research leave




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income and strategy

 This UOA has returned research income of £357,815 to HESA. The strategy for generating
 research income encourages cross-leverage of funding sources.

       HA secured a Major Medical Research Grant from the Dowager Countess Eleanor Peel
        Trust. Donovan, Bampouras and Dewhurst launched the ‘Gaze and Gait’ project, which
        was successfully delivered across four years, and included an annual international active
        ageing conference with University of Rome Foro Italico and a PhD studentship. Spain has
        facilitated collaborative working with Lancaster University on an MRC funded study (Noisy
        Knees), which has supported publication of Spain1 in PlosOne.
       MI has focussed on collaborative work with higher education and health partners. This
        includes Lancaster and Oxford University’s, building on previous experience and expertise
        in eye tracking and digital imaging, and through the Health Education England-funded
        ‘Ultrasound Academy’ (Section 3.4) which included investment in evaluation and research.
        Booth also collaborated with Miller (UOA20) to extend the portfolio of externally funded
        research, with funding from the College of Radiographers Industry Partnership Scheme,
        and NHS Trusts.
       DIGH has utilised staff expertise in sociotechnical and clinical domains to deliver a number
        of specific commissions for health bodies, often working with partners and technology
        adopters in healthcare settings. For example, Reid participated in a project funded by
        Academic Health Science Network to explore video-consultations in nursing homes. Staff
        with emerging responsibility for research have also been engaged in these programmes
        (Sapsford). Income in this theme was returned in UOA20 (£249,883).
       RAHL has focussed on a number of smaller funded programmes to provide staff with
        opportunities to gain experience on externally funded programmes such as Youngson
        working with the Rosemere Cancer Foundation and a continued focus on forensic settings
        – including a Research Assistant externally funded to explore autism in the context of the
        criminal justice system.

  Table 3. UOA3 HESA Research Income
  Eleanor Peel Trust:           £134,713      Gaze and Gait in Elderly
  CRH Charitable Trust:         £70,000       Autism Research Assistant
  National Institute for Health £46,364       North East and North Cumbria Applied Research
  Research                                    Collaborations (NENC ARC), including a PhD
                                              studentship.
  Health Education North West     £31,873     MSc: Ultrasound Direct Entry Support Evaluation
                                              Project
  ESRC and Leverhulme Trust       £25,873     Human Fetus Study with Lancaster University
  Health Innovation and           £25,723     End of Life Evaluation Project
  Education Cluster
  National Institute for Health   £8,241      Improving quality of life and health outcomes of
  Research                                    patients with psychosis with St Mary’s University.
  National Institute for Health   £5,440      CT colonoscopy project with UCL and Oxford
  Research                                    University
  Employability Skills in OT      £4,915      Higher Education Academy Occupational Therapy
  Students                                    Skills
  Rosemere Cancer                 £4,672      The Creation of a Breast Cancer Survivorship
  Foundation:                                 Programme




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2018, this unit has also utilised new infrastructures to support income generation – the NIHR
 North East and North Cumbria Research Design Service (NENC RDS, 2018-2023) and North
 East North Cumbria Applied Research Collaboration (NENC ARC, 2019-2024). Both of these
 initiatives have generated income (up to July 2020) to this unit of:
        £46,364 (NENC ARC), including a PhD studentship (2019-2022), returned to HESA as
         research income.
        £7,678 (NENC RDS) returned as enterprise income.

 This unit’s future strategy for generating research income will:
        Utilise the NENC RDS to support staff to secure research income and NENC ARC to create
         new opportunities for staff to engage in externally funded research (this has started to be
         achieved, with £173,000 awarded in October 2020).
        Continue to build on success across the submitted themes, to involve an increasing
         number of staff in delivery of commissioned research to enhance capability. Utilise our
         internal experience to improve tendering and widen skills base.

 This unit will grow and expand research capability and income by maximising income streams
 from CPD and apprenticeships. This includes c£380,000 from Health Education England for
 Paramedic Degree Apprenticeships and development of the Centre for Excellence in Paramedic
 Practice. Funding provides for focussed development of research capability linked to the
 profession. Similar developments in nursing may also support this unit to undertake research in
 this area.

 3.2 Other unit income and infrastructure for researcher development

 The RDS NENC and NENC ARC also provide infrastructure support to this unit.
 UoC was selected in 2018 to host the RDS NENC, with the hub lead sited at our Fusehill Street
 Campus in Carlisle. The CRiHS Director is part of the executive group for RDS NENC and the
 NIHR representative (Hayes) is part of the CRiHS steering group. The RDS NENC provides:
        Research design and methodological advice to researchers who are developing
         applications for national peer-reviewed funding;
        Support for successful applicants;
        Advice (offered free of charge) via face-to-face by telephone and email, and video
         conferencing. As part of a national service, the service adheres to the RDS Charter.

 The NENC ARC (secured in 2019) is a partnership that brings together six regional universities,
 the NHS, health and social care providers, local authorities, the voluntary sector, community
 groups, members of the public and others. The ARC’s aim is to ensure ‘better care for all people
 in all places’ and facilitates applied and impactful research, public involvement and community
 engagement, knowledge implementation and collaboration. Benham, Morris, and Donovan
 serve, or have served, as ARC theme leads, and the ARC funds a senior research fellow
 (Bidmead, UOA20), two studentships and in October 2020, committed to invest £173,000 in
 research projects across a number of themes (one project involving ERR researcher Christie).
 This improves researcher capability and capacity in this unit.

 Staff in this unit also benefit from the third theme of CRiHS - Health and Society Knowledge
 Exchange (HASKE), which undertakes business development and commissioning activities
 aligning with UoCs portfolio (see Section 1.1.3). This is underpinned by focussed activity in
 tendering, networking, contract/grant capture and delivery of high-quality research projects.
 HASKE maintains a register of part time associate staff, with appropriate research skills to support
 delivery for unit staff as Principal Investigators. This track record resulted in an extensive portfolio
 of major commissioners including Morecambe Bay NHS Trust, Northern Cancer Alliance, NHS
 England, Northern Care Alliance, Health Education England, and North West Ambulance Service,
 securing £867,620 of research income (reported in UOA20).

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Research income in support of impact activities

 This unit has utilised research (and other types of income) to generate impact.

       In MI, research income to support research and development in medical imaging, has
        directly supported Impact0301, including funding for the human fetus study. Booth
        received a research grant from the College of Radiographers Industry Partnership Scheme
        to study readiness and resilience in graduate radiographers, the subject of an additional
        reserve impact case study.
       In RAHL, Cox’s contribution to the NIHR Programme “SCENE” and her role as Chair of
        the Royal College of Occupational Therapists, contributed to a reserve ICS regards
        benefits to occupational therapy programmes and interventions.
       In HA, Spain’s ‘noisy knees’ project has led to further partnership with Lancaster and
        Sheffield and has strong potential for a future ICS. Hayes utilised funding from the Peel
        Trust to develop an ICS demonstrating an influence on medical policy, investigations and
        therapy strategies, and on public engagement regards to exercise attenuating biological
        ageing.
       In DIGH, Reid’s contribution to an externally funded telehealth study (Reid1) has helped
        to underpin an ICS in UOA20.

 Research and development has provided opportunities for other staff to gain experience on
 externally funded research programmes, including Wilby, Phillips and Reid as well as other staff
 in different UOA’s.

 3.4 Campus investments, infrastructure and staff resources

 In support of this unit’s research themes, the £9 million Sentamu building at Lancaster campus,
 part funded by the Lancashire Enterprise Partnership (LEP), was opened in September 2017 by
 LEP Chair Edwin Booth. The building, which includes eight teaching rooms, a lecture theatre and
 student facilities, will help support the creation of more than 700 new health and social care jobs
 in the region by 2024. The building has also been used for a number of research lectures and
 events, including a Diagnostic Radiography Curriculum Development and Workforce Recovery
 conference (July 2019) which presented findings from Booth’s funded study as well as
 collaboration with partners evaluating and developing the radiography curriculum.

 In MI, a Health Education England grant (£395,000) was awarded to UoC for an ‘Ultrasound
 Academy’ centred on the university and working in partnership with two NHS trusts - Morecambe
 Bay NHS Trust and The Countess of Chester NHS Foundation Trust. The award will be used to
 create two dedicated training rooms located in both trusts that will house state-of-the-art
 ultrasound scanners. A subsequent extension bid was granted for £194,000, of which £38,141 will
 be ring-fenced for research, including an evaluation (Miller, 0.2FTE, 19/20) and Research
 Assistant 0.1FTE (19/20), conference fees and open access publications. Research on image
 perception has informed the specification of the computer suite used for radiography students.
 This includes medical grade calibration of monitors and special lighting. The facilities have been
 used by Donovan for research on fetal eye tracking and are available to PGR and staff
 researchers.

 Where possible, investment in teaching facilities has been ‘dual-purposed’ to enable researchers
 to use equipment and inform teaching activities. In 2018, Physiotherapy Skills Labs were built at
 both Lancaster and Carlisle campuses. These have been used for research work by Rowe
 (Optijump machine, used to study jump kinematics and power), Sapsford (Biodex Balance System
 SD used for balance studies in stroke rehabilitation research), Hayes (range of equipment used
 in studies of change of testosterone levels with age, in men) and Benham/Bampouras (Isokinetic
 Dynamometer and Biodex Balance System for ageing balances studies and work on exercise
 regimes for older people).



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For technician support, the unit has a senior sport science technician working with the physiology,
 biomechanics and other sport science equipment involved with research projects. In medical
 sciences an additional technician is trained in radiation protection, providing support for research
 involving different medical imaging technologies.

 A range of strategic partnerships bring additional resource to IoH and CRiHS. For example, use
 of extensive secondary data sets held by Edukit and Healthwatch enable richer research to be
 undertaken by our staff. Partnerships with the local Integrated Care System and Clinical
 Commissioning Groups both provide access to a wider range of research participants (staff and
 patients) and means to disseminate research findings strategically. This unit also supported by
 institutional structures, such as MS Teams and Impact software to support research infrastructure
 REF5a, 4).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Developing links with external organisations, research users and beneficiaries is a key aspect of
 staff development. Unit staff are supported (through Research and Scholarly Activity time and
 internal funding, REF5a, 3.1) to establish effective research collaborations, networks and practice
 partnerships. Staff increasingly hold esteemed positions on strategic boards and networks further
 enhancing knowledge exchange, often as a result of their research activity.

 Within UOA3, research interests are diverse and connect with an impressive array of research
 users and audiences, across sectors and communities. Many staff have developed strong
 collaborations with stakeholders, as well as with academic partners.

 4.1 Unit staff have engaged in partnerships and collaborations beyond academia.

 For many, the traditional partnerships are with NHS and statutory care providers, but other staff
 more naturally link with sports organisations, community groups and social enterprises.

       In RAHL, Walker-Small has worked with Brathay Hall Trust on injury prevention strategies
        in marathon running with participants at the ’10 in 10 marathons’ fundraising events and
        has presented this research at the International Olympic Conference on injury prevention
        and illness in Monaco (2017). She has supplemented participants’ training with injury
        prevention strategies with a workshop, booklet, videos and online resources reducing the
        injury rate from 5.2 to 3 per runner. Elliott’s research has been used by Richard Wiseman,
        TV presenter, and uploaded as publicly accessible YouTube videos – ‘Relaxing music for
        anxiety control’, and is used by music therapists.

       Across MI and HA, and through the work of Donovan and Bampouras, a significant
        programme has been delivered across the Lancaster and Morecambe Bay area regards
        to physical activity outreach amongst older residents. As this geographical area
        experiences a higher incidence of falls than most areas of the U.K., the secured research
        funding helped to develop and implement applied research into the area of postural
        stability and influenced directly the change in provision of such services. This occurred
        through community engagement with the Continuing Learning Group, Lancaster; and
        University of the Third Age as well as invited reports for the Isle of Man, Director of Public
        Health and Age UK.

       In HA, Bampouras and Dewhurst evaluated the physical activity in AgeUK’s Lancaster
        Run. In addition, Bampouras worked with frail older dialysis and renal adult patients in
        the Westmorland and Royal Preston Hospitals, exploring the effects of exercise on
        strength, functional ability and postural balance. The work has won awards repeatedly at
        the Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Research and Innovation
        Showcase. Dr Andrew Nixon (the medical doctor leading the team of which Bampouras
        was a part) was awarded Research Rising star.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Work with the public and community audiences is important for our researchers, with many taking
 part in TV and radio interviews or presenting at public events.

       In HA, Spain’s work on ‘Noisy Knees’, and her published articles featured on BBC News
        and on the Today programme. Spain also collaborated with the Brathay Trust on ‘10 in 10
        marathons’, working with runners to assess biomechanical change. Hayes’ work on high
        intensity exercise for clinical and younger populations with Carmarthen Healthy Ageing
        Project, demonstrated that only 3 min of exercise every five days provided improvements
        in vascular function, cardiovascular risk, body composition, aerobic, and muscle power,
        and these received coverage in The Times and The New York Times. Dewhurst and
        Bampouras’ work on Scottish Country Dancing assessing functional ability and postural
        balance attracted widespread media attention from the printed electronic and TV press,
        including IT Border, Medical News Today and Scotland on Sunday.
       IN RAHL, Elliott’s research on music for anxiety control has been reported in Radio
        Cumbria and Radio Wales.

 4.2 Collaboration with other academic partners is important, and there are many
 longstanding examples.

 A major collaboration is the NIHR NENC-ARC project, already mentioned above, that involves the
 universities of Northumbria, Durham, Newcastle, Teesside, Sunderland, as well as NHS
 organisations, local authorities and voluntary sector partners.

       In MI, Donovan and Phillips work integrally as part of a research group at Lancaster
        University on vision and perception. Since 2009, Phillips has worked with Loughborough
        University and Nottingham University on observer behaviour and search strategies in
        mammography imaging. Donovan collaborates with Waikato University, New Zealand,
        which has led to the award of funding from the Marsden Fund Council of the Royal Society
        of New Zealand in November 2020.
       In HA, Bampouras and Dewhurst worked closely with Associate Professor Dr Andrea
        Macaluso, University of Rome Foro Italico, delivering joint research projects and an annual
        research symposium
       In RAHL, Cox has been involved with successive EU projects with the same EU partners
        and Lancaster University. This collaboration has included joint publications, conference
        presentations and PGR mentoring. Elliott undertook a PhD Review in specialist music in
        Victoria, Australia (2019)

 4.3 Unit staff have disseminated research through a range of avenues, including to key
 research users and beneficiaries.

       In RAHL, Presenting at conferences for professional clinical bodies is an important feature
        of our stakeholder engagement, leading to widening of networks and new collaborations.
        For example, Cox presented as keynote speaker at the 50th anniversary of the Cardiff
        University Welsh School of Occupational Therapy and delivered the Elizabeth Casson
        Memorial Lecture (2017). Morris has provided the keynote address at the Birmingham and
        Solihull Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust Occupational Therapy Conference (2014).
        Walker-Small gave a public lecture and workshop on ‘Research informed injury prevention
        to multiday marathon runners’ (2019).
       In HA, Bampouras gave keynotes at the Athletic Performance Conferences, Kavala,
        Greece on ‘Performance Analysis: practical ways to use it and its application’ and
        ‘Muscular imbalances: impact on injury likelihood and their assessment’ and at the
        American Society of Nephrology on the ‘Frailty and quality of life in chronic kidney disease’
        with medical specialists (2017).




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 Unit staff contribute more broadly to the research base and are active in their
 professional associations.

       In RAHL, Benham is on the international advisory panel of the Editorial Board for the
        Chartered Society of Physiotherapy journal 'Physiotherapy'. Cox is Chair of Council for
        the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT) and Youngson is a member of the
        Research and Development Board. Youngson and Wilby contribute to ‘OT News’.
       In MI, Booth is a member of the Research Committee of the College of Radiographers.
       In HA, Kontziampasis delivered a keynote at the MRC-Laboratory of Molecular Biology,
        Cambridge (2019) and Bampouras gave keynotes at the Athletic Performance
        Conferences, Kavala, Greece.
       UOA staff are involved in research reviews for journals out with their discipline and publish
        within other research networks, for example, in RAHL, Elliott has researched with
        psychologists and presented at the Psychological Division of Health Psychology Annual
        Conference in 2019 jointly with an applied psychologist (Wilbraham, UOA20) and a social
        psychologist (Miller, UOA20).

 Several staff are active on editorial boards of international journals:

       In RAHL, Cox is on the Editorial Board for British Journal of Occupational Therapy and
        Morris is an accreditor for the Royal College of Occupational Therapists.
       In MI, Donovan is Editor of Frontiers in Psychology Journal and a member of the Cochrane
        Dementia Group and Airways Group.
       In HA, Bampouras is on the Editorial Advisory Board for the Journal of Sport Sciences
        and Sport and Exercise Scientist (official publication of the British Association of Sport and
        Exercise Sciences) and Review Editor for Biomechanics and Control of Human Movement,
        Frontiers in Sports and Active Living. Bampouras and Hayes Co-Edited ‘Exercise in
        Ageing’, a Special Issue in Sports.


 Conclusion
 UOA3 has experienced sustained growth since the last REF, with the incorporation of new
 researchers. Our new structures, particularly IoH and CRiHS, have ensured a strategic approach
 to staff development, targeting of opportunities, facilitation and support to research outputs,
 achievement of impact and securing of research income. Strong thematic focus is driving our
 future strategy, and is well integrated into organisational goals.




                                                                                              Page 17
