Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter
 Unit of Assessment: 10 - Mathematics

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 CONTEXT, VISION AND STRUCTURE

 1.1.1 Overview of the unit
 Mathematics at University of Exeter (UOE), situated on two campuses in the southwest of
 England, is at the heart of a university-wide vision in which mathematics plays a key role in
 creating a sustainable future for the economy and society. This has led to significant growth
 across all our research subjects in number of staff, students, and research activity. We have
 expanded from 35 academic staff members to 48, our research income has almost quadrupled,
 and the number of finishing PhD students has more than doubled (Table 1). Our staff have
 trained across four continents and maintain active collaborations world-wide, both with other
 mathematicians and across a range of applications. A distinctive strength of the unit is our
 thriving research collaborations with 4 of UOE’s multidisciplinary Institutes: Environment and
 Sustainability Institute (ESI), Living Systems Institute (LSI), Institute of Data Science and
 Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI), and Global Systems Institute (GSI), described in Section 1.3 &
 4.16, of the Institution Level Environment Statement (ILES). Our collaborations have significantly
 increased the scope of our impact, which ranges from local economic development in Cornwall
 to influencing international health policy in partnership with the World Health Organization
 (WHO) to improving weather forecasts by using novel numerical methods. Research is also
 embedded into our taught programmes, with all of our students exposed to research and many
 undertaking significant research projects.


 Table 1: There has been a significant increase in staff, research income, and PGR
 completions during the assessment period as indicated in the table below.

                           Staff FTE               Research Income, £       PGR Completions
  REF 2014                 34.6                     5.7 M                   30
  REF 2021                 48                      20.5 M                   65.7

 1.1.2 Research Aims and Strategy
 Our aims are to foster excellence in mathematics research in an open and inclusive
 environment, to generate impact capable of transforming the economy and society, and to
 increase the potential to do so in the future by pushing the boundaries of mathematics research
 using targeted collaboration, leading to marked increases in research activity and tangible
 impacts in the mathematics of the environment and healthcare.

 To achieve this, we have: 1) hired creative and energetic people working at the forefront of their
 fields of research; 2) created an evolving, supportive, inclusive and stimulating environment for
 mathematics researchers at all stages to develop into innovative research leaders in the
 mathematical sciences; and 3) encouraged mathematics collaboration with a) UOE’s
 multidisciplinary Institutes, b) our many international collaborators and c) our strategic partners.
 Our partners include:

    1. The Met Office (MO), one of the world-leading institutions for environmental science and
       impact, is an important strategic partner and in 2010 we became a founding Met Office
       Academic Partner (MOAP). The MO invests in Departmental posts: 2 Met Office Chairs
       within the Department of Mathematics, one submitted to UOA10 (Thuburn) and the other
       delivered to UOA7 (Collins) and a jointly funded post (Economou). The partnership
       includes shared PhD CASE studentships and bespoke training at the MO (advanced
       statistics, numerical analysis, etc). Further, this collaboration has created new ideas and
       new methods that have significant impact and are visible internationally. Thuburn’s

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       collaboration with MO on numerical methods forms one of our Impact Case Studies.
       Furthermore, in 2016-2017 Thuburn served as a consultant for the ‘Dycore test Group’, a
       part of the selection process for choosing the USA NOAA’s Next Generation Prediction
       system, the basis of the USA’s national weather forecasts.
    2. The Alan Turing Institute (ATI), critical for engaging in national and international
       initiatives in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (AI). Our Department houses 5 out of
       the university’s complement of 25 ATI Fellows, and Challenor and Williamson were
       instrumental in setting up the Uncertainty Quantification special interest group within the
       ATI.
    3. The World Health Organization (WHO), the most important organisation in the world for
       directing and coordinating global health. As a direct consequence of Shaddick’s
       collaboration with the WHO we became a strategic Collaborating Centre for
       Environmental Data Science for Air Quality and Climate, one of only three worldwide.
       This research underpins one of our Impact Case Studies.

 This strategy, and our expansion, has also enabled a transformational change in the unit’s
 overall research culture and intellectual environment in several important ways:

    1. Our expansion in staff has been accompanied by significant growth in our student
       numbers at all levels. Both PhD (Figure 2, see 2.3.2) and undergraduate enrolment
       almost doubled (undergraduate FTE went from 444 in 2014 to 839 in 2019), further
       enhancing our research-led teaching environment.
    2. Our increased research activity has allowed us to significantly expand our Departmental
       Seminar Series and Colloquia. Our seven themed seminar series are vital to research life
       in the Department, where local and international collaboration and dissemination take
       place. Combined with Institute interdisciplinary seminars, visitors from international
       collaborations, and funded research grants, we have access to expertise from all over
       the world within the Department. The 2019/20 Departmental Series alone brought in 76
       visitors. In 2015, we created the David Rees Distinguished Fellowship, a programme to
       invite distinguished researchers for month-long visits to the Department and to deliver a
       lecture series on a research topic.
    3. We have transformed our development of research impact pathways, in collaboration
       with the University’s Innovation, Impact and Business (IIB) team (Section 3.2.4, ILES 4.5-
       4.8). This led to our 5 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP)s (Section 4.2.2), as well
       as creating and supporting the long-term pipeline of impact activities, including the 4
       Impact Case Studies in this submission and an additional 3 under development.

 1.1.3 Structure of the Department
 The Department of Mathematics (Figure 1) consists of two geographically distinct groups, 42
 staff members located on the Streatham Campus in Exeter, and 7 on the Penryn Campus,
 Cornwall. The Environmental Mathematics (EM) group in Penryn was created in 2011 to
 increase impactful mathematics resulting from research aligned with UOE’s first institute, ESI.
 The remaining groups, located on the Streatham Campus, are Number Theory, Algebra, and
 Geometry (NTAG); Dynamical Systems and Analysis (DSA); Geophysical and
 Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics (GAFD); Living Systems Mathematics (LSM); and Statistics
 and Data Science (SDS). Communication and collaboration between the two campuses is
 maintained via shared research interests, and co-supervised PhD and Post-doctoral Research
 Fellows (PDRFs). Our PhDs and PDRFs are an important part of our research culture. At the
 REF census date, we had 49 PDRFs in the Department at different stages of career
 advancement (Associate Research Fellow, Research Fellow, Senior Research Fellow). Our
 Department also houses a Climate Dynamics (CD) group, submitted to UOA7, that collaborates
 with the GAFD, DSA, and SDS groups. In addition, we embed mathematicians in strategic
 scientific groups, across the University, for example McKinley in the Medical School, Beardmore
 in Biology (submitted to UOA5) and Dodwell in Engineering (submitted to UOA12).

 Each group has an Academic Lead (AL) who provides mentoring and leadership. The Head of
 Department (HOD), Director of Education, Director of Research (DOR), Director of Impacts

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (DOI), Director of Post Graduate Research, Director of Global Development, and the ALs form
 the Mathematics Strategy Group, which is responsible for research and education strategy
 within the Department. The Department sits within the College of Engineering, Mathematics and
 Physical Sciences (CEMPS). The HOD sits on the Senior Leadership Forum (SLF) of the
 University which is an important channel for the Department to influence University policy.




 Figure 1: Grey boxes indicate research groups, lavender indicates UOE multidisciplinary Institutes,
 and light blue boxes indicate strategic partners. New investments are those begun in the REF2021
 census period.


 1.2 ACHIEVEMENTS IN RESEARCH AND IMPACT FROM REF2014 TO REF2021

 Below, we present our research groups and a selection of their achievements. Specific
 examples of strategic grants and how we use them can be found in Section 3.1; examples of
 research activities are provided in Section 4.

 1.2.1 Number Theory, Algebra and Geometry (NTAG)
 Professor Langer, Saïdi; Associate Professor Andrade, Byott (lead), Johnston,
 Senior Lecturer; Chapman (deceased October 2020), di Proietto, Tseng.

 NTAG is a long-established pure mathematics research group, with strong links to DSA (see
 1.2.2). It is the focus of most of the pure mathematics research activity at Exeter, with some pure
 mathematicians also in DSA. The research interests of NTAG lie in number theory,
 algebraic/arithmetic geometry, and their connections with other areas of mathematics and
 physics. Research expertise in the group includes Langer (p-adic Hodge theory), Saïdi
 (anabelian geometry), Byott (Hopf-Galois theory), Chapman (combinatorial number theory) and
 Johnston (Iwasawa theory and Stark’s conjectures). In 2016, we recruited four new pure
 mathematicians, with three appointments in NTAG (Andrade, di Proietto, Tseng), while the
 fourth, (Terhesiu) was hired into DSA. These posts allowed us to build new expertise and links
 between dynamical systems, number theory and analysis with the appointment of Andrade
 (analytic number theory) and Tseng (Diophantine approximation and homogeneous dynamics).
 The appointment of di Proietto enabled us to further consolidate our strength in p-adic geometry.
 The influx of new staff has resulted in an increase in the visibility of pure mathematics at Exeter,
 with a number a conferences and workshops including international workshops on Hopf-Galois
 Theory and Galois Module Structure (2015), on Iwasawa Theory and Stark's conjectures (2018),
 a CMI-LMS Research School on Analytic Number Theory (2018) and two LMS Celebrating New

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Appointments workshops. We have also been able to develop new connections with physics
 through the work of Andrade on random matrix theory and Byott on algebraic structures related
 to the Yang-Baxter equation. The group currently hosts many international collaborations as
 well as two PDRFs, funded by the grants of Andrade and Langer, with two more PDRFs to arrive
 in 2021, from recently funded grants of Saïdi and Byott. Finally, Tseng is a former Heilbronn
 Research Fellow and has had a consulting agreement from 2017 to 2021.

 1.2.2 Dynamical Systems and Analysis (DSA)
 Professor Ashwin, Biktashev; Associate Professor Sieber(lead), Rodrigues, Holland;
 Senior Lecturer Bick, Terhesiu.

 The research of DSA focuses on dynamical systems and analysis, ranging from fundamental
 mathematical theory to applications in science and technology. The appointment of Terhesiu
 (ergodic theory) allowed us to strengthen our work in pure and applied dynamical systems and
 analysis. The group’s basic research includes networks, symmetry, low dimensional dynamics,
 ergodic theory, delay systems, stochastic dynamics, and spatially extended systems. Because
 this group has both pure and applied research, it serves as a hub of mathematical creativity,
 uniting interests in many of the Department’s groups and multidisciplinary institutes. An example
 of its important role achieving the research strategy of our Department is that ideas seeded in
 DSA evolved into the Living Systems Mathematics (LSM) group (Section 1.2.4). Specific
 examples of DSA’s research include: ergodic theory (Ashwin, Holland, Rodrigues, Terhesiu),
 continuation methods (Sieber, EPSRC fellow) non-autonomous dynamical systems and tipping
 (Ashwin, Sieber), network dynamics (Ashwin, Bick) and pattern formation (Biktashev). The
 group’s results underpin applications in other groups in the unit and across the university, in
 particular Earth Systems and Medicine/Neuroscience. Collaborations have resulted in joint
 publications & PhD students with UOA7 staff: Cox, Luke, Stephenson from Mathematics, Lenton
 from Earth Sciences. Researchers in DSA (Ashwin, Holland, Sieber) have played a central role
 in EU PhD training networks, ITNs CRITICS and CriticalEarth, and the EU funded consortium
 TiPES, which develops new mathematical tools for understanding nonlinear dynamics of climate
 processes.


 1.2.3 Statistics and Data Science (SDS)
 Professor Challenor (lead), Shaddick, Stephenson; Associate Professor Kelson, Williamson;
 Senior Lecturer Economou, Kelson, Ferro; Lecturer: Maher, Siegert.

 The research of SDS ranges from fundamental statistics to data science and its applications.
 The group was formed in 2015 based on a strategic decision to build on past success in uniting
 statistics with environmental science. SDS was initially comprised of five staff: Bailey (retired),
 Challenor, Ferro, Stephenson, and Williamson. Over the next few years, the group expanded
 significantly, with the addition of Shaddick, Economou, Kelson, Maher, and Siegert. Research
 activities in the group include: spatial statistics (Challenor, Stephenson, Ferro, Siegert,
 Economou, Shaddick), extreme values (Stephenson, Economou), climate risk (Stephenson,
 Siegert, Economou), uncertainty quantification both in theory and application in climate
 (Challenor, Williamson), healthcare, epidemiology and engineering, foundational mathematical
 development (Williamson), verification of probabilistic forecasts (Ferro, Siegert),
 epidemiological modelling (Economou), clinical trials (Kelson), the analysis of physical motion
 and modelling supply chains (Challenor, Economou, and Kelson). The SDS group forms a core
 part of the Department’s involvement in the IDSAI and serves as a nucleus of collaboration
 with our UOA7-facing Climate Dynamics group, the Department of Computer Science, the
 GAFD (Section 1.2.5), LSM (Section 1.2.4) and DSA (Section 1.2.2). SDS is one of our most
 important groups aligned with the Industrial Strategy and in 2019 was awarded a (£5.2M) UKRI
 CDT in Environmental Intelligence (EI) (PI: Shaddick), bringing many more PhD students to the
 Department. DSA is contributing two of the unit’s four Impact Case Studies (Economou and
 Shaddick) and has 2 of the Department’s 5 KTPs (Williamson & Economou, Siegert). The SDS
 maintains key strategic relationship with the Met Office and ATI, and were instrumental in


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 setting up the 2019 WHO Centre (Section 1.1.2). This group has also recently made
 contributions to the fight against the pandemic virus, COVID-19 (Section 3.1).

 1.2.4 Living Systems Mathematics (LSM)
 Professor Tsaneva, Borisyuk; Senior Lecturer Akman, Goodfellow (lead), Rankin, Wan;
 Lecturer Walker, Wedgwood.

 Our first genuinely multidisciplinary group, LSM is one of the co-founding research groups
 based in the LSI building. The award-winning building (RIBA SW award 2017 and the
 Michelmores Building of the Year Award 2017) was designed to embed interdisciplinary
 research inspired by mathematical modelling of complex biomedical systems. One goal of this
 group is to bring mathematics to real-world applications. Examples include model-based
 optimisation of epilepsy surgery (Goodfellow), diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, novel
 therapies for menopause and infertility, and lung diseases (Tsaneva). Another key goal is to
 develop new branches of mathematics as outcomes of multidisciplinary research, for example
 expanding mathematical theories on system dynamics through research on epilepsy. The
 group has benefited from investment in 4 new Lecturers (Rankin, Walker, Wan, Wedgwood),
 who each integrate experiments into their mathematical research, and a Professor (Borisyuk),
 who is a leading expert on nonlinear oscillator models. The group maintains strong connections
 to the other departmental groups, in particular DSA and SDS, as well as the Colleges of
 Medicine and Health and Life and Environmental Sciences. The group’s activities come under
 the umbrella Quantitative Health @ Exeter (QHE), which has grown out of a sequence of
 successful grants, for example (see Section 3.1 for more detail): 1) EPSRC Centre for
 Predictive Modelling in Healthcare and 2) EPSRC Hub for Quantitative Modelling in Healthcare,
 both of which bring together researchers, clinicians and stakeholders to address key healthcare
 challenges. We are one of only 3 centres in the country to have received both of these awards.
 International links include hosting a Fulbright US Scholar (Casey Diekman, to advance
 understanding of physiological rhythms) and joint studentships with NTU Singapore (e.g.,
 Tsaneva-Chotirmall (NTU): modelling microbiome in lung disease, Nature Medicine paper
 accepted).

 1.2.5 Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics (GAFD)
 Professor Berger (lead), Gilbert, Thuburn, Vallis, Wingate, Zhang; Associate Professor,
 Hillier; Senior Lecturer Foullon, Kwasniok, Mason; Lecturer Shipton.

 GAFD brings together expertise in mathematics and fluid dynamics of oceans, atmospheres and
 stars, increasing our research profile in UOE’s strategic areas of environmental science and
 exoplanets. The group has a close relationship with Departmental staff submitted to UOA7 with
 shared PhD students (Thuburn/Beare, Vallis/Collins) and housing four members of UOA7 within
 the group (Beare, Lambert, Thomson, Seviour). There are also close ties to Astrophysics
 (UOA11) with biannual shared seminars bringing leading international researchers to Exeter.
 The group has important, strategic links with the Met Office including housing three Honorary
 Visiting Professors: Jackson, Shipway and Wood. In addition, the group hosts Honorary Visiting
 Professor Grimshaw. GAFD members work in a wide range of mathematical disciplines
 connecting these areas to theoretical fluid dynamics and its applications. This includes recent
 advances in geometry in fluid dynamics (Gilbert), oscillatory PDEs (Wingate), multi-scale
 analysis in magnetohydrodynamics (Hillier), discrete differential geometry in numerical weather
 prediction (Thuburn), in the analysis of in-situ satellite data (Foullon), understanding entangled
 and knotted structures using wavelets (Berger), and stability analysis with stochastic differential
 equations (Kwasniok). An emerging theme during the assessment period was the development
 of innovative, configurable numerical models: 1) ISCA, a planetary atmosphere model (Vallis);
 and 2) GUSTO, a compatible finite element model used for prototyping atmosphere/ocean
 dynamical cores (Shipton) housing a variation of the next generation Met Office dynamical core.

 1.2.6 Environmental Mathematics (EM)
 Professor Recker, Townley (lead); Senior Lecturer McKinley, Mueller; Lecturer Ardakani,
 Das, Hughes.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The EM group is the main conduit for mathematics and data science into research activities on
 the Penryn campus, including the environmental sciences in the ESI, and makes significant
 contributions to developing potential economic impacts in the form of KTPs and ERDF activities
 (Section 3.1 and 4.2.2). During the assessment period four new staff members were appointed
 (Ardakani, Das, Hughes, McKinley), and a new degree programme in mathematics created in
 2016, leading to a major increase in activity in mathematics research in Penryn. For example,
 there are currently 15 mathematics PhD students in the group and a further 6 jointly supervised
 with biosciences and renewable energy. The group’s research includes the analysis and design
 of passive systems, with application to mechanical design and electric circuit synthesis (Hughes)
 and adaptive and set-point control for management of natural populations (Mueller and
 Townley), fractional order, intelligent control approach to handle complexity in smart grid models
 (Das); and geometric fluid dynamics and numerical analysis (Ardakani). One of the group’s
 highlights is that Recker and collaborators made fundamental contributions to a WHO study on
 the safety and long-term impact of the first dengue vaccine. This research formed the evidence
 base for WHO's health policy recommendations for the use of this vaccine and forms one of our
 Impact Case Studies.

 1.3 EXTERNAL INDICATORS OF PROGRESS SINCE REF2014

    1. A factor of four increase in externally funded research (Section 3.1),
    2. A doubling of the number of completed PhD students since REF2014 (Section 2.3.2),
    3. The £5.6M UKRI Environmental Intelligence CDT (Section 1.2.3),
    4. A significant enhancement of our research environment with a £23K per annum
       investment from the College that supports seven seminar series with invited speakers
       from all over the globe, and the creation of the David Rees Distinguished Fellowship for
       visiting academics,
    5. A significant increase in leadership, commissions of trust, steering boards, and other
       activities in the international sector, expanding UK’s international influence (Section 4),
    6. Three partnerships vital to research creativity and developing new routes to impacts:
       the Met Office, the Alan Turing Institute, and the World Health Organization.

 1.4 STRATEGY FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT IN THE NEXT DECADE
 Our aims and strategies, outlined in Section 1.1.2, will continue to drive our future development.
 A selection of our new initiatives include:

    -    Building on our two mathematics EPSRC Healthcare Centres (Sections 1.2.4, 3.1) to
         develop mathematics in healthcare decision applications; advance mathematics of
         diabetes, mood disorders, dementia, clinical microbiology, medical mycology, and
         fundamental biology applications.
    -    Developing untapped veins of research, with potential for global impact, through a new
         UOE-MO Joint Centre for Excellence in Environmental Intelligence, whose ambition is to
         develop solutions to real-world environmental challenges using data science and AI
         (https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/research/approach/collaboration/joint-centre-for-
         excellence-in-environmental-intelligence).
    -    Instigating a new Robin Chapman Lecture Series in which distinguished
         mathematicians visit the Department and give a Departmental Colloquia and a Lecture
         Series aimed at advances in pure mathematics. This new Lecture Series will be
         developed in honour of Chapman, who died in October 2020, and who was a greatly
         respected member of the NTAG group, a favourite teacher, and an icon of our
         Department.

 1.5 Open Research and Research Integrity
 The Department is committed to Open Access publishing (Section 3.2.2), and similarly
 committed to ensuring a high level of research integrity. For example, members of the
 department are encouraged to give open access to software and data outputs, to enable our
 results and code to be accessible to a wide range of users (e.g. via GitHub). We also have

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to a recently created group of Research Software Engineers (Section 3.2.3), which aids
 greatly in making our software repeatable and open-source. In addition, Kelson, who is also
 our Departmental Ethics and Integrity Officer, has led the way for UOE’s participation in the UK
 Reproducibility Network and serves as our local representative. The Departmental Ethics and
 Integrity Officer advises staff and engages with CEMPS’s Research Ethics Committee, which
 allows the Department to benefit from all the infrastructure and policies available from UOE’s
 actions in response to membership in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (ILES 2.9).

 Section 2. People

 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY

 Our approach to staffing, in line with our strategies (Section 1.1.2, 1.4), includes two essential
 types of investment: 1) departmental appointments decided by the Mathematics Strategy Group;
 and 2) targeted cross-university multidisciplinary research appointments associated with the
 University’s strategic institutes (ESI, LSI, GSI, and IDSAI), which are decided by the institute’s
 leadership team with representation from the Department. For both types of appointments, we
 carry out an international search. Over the assessment period we recruited 15 UOA10
 Departmental posts:

    -   NTAG: Andrade, di Proietto, Tseng
    -   DSA: Terhesiu, Bick
    -   SDS: Shaddick (a new Chair in Statistics), Economou, Kelson, Maher, and Siegert.
    -   GAFD: Hillier
    -   EM: Ardakani, Das, Hughes, McKinley.

 We also had 5 targeted multidisciplinary appointments including:

    -   Rankin, Wan, Walker, and Wedgwood, hired using the proleptic scheme (see below).
    -   Borisyuk (20%FTE) strengthens our expertise in 1) nonlinear oscillator models for
        neuroscience applications and 2) neural network research in the Medical School.

 We have a special Early Career Researcher (ECRs) route to a permanent post called Proleptic
 Lectureship, which allows PDRFs to function in a dual role. The staff member works initially as a
 PDRF with a promise of transition into an academic Lecturer post. These posts can be awarded
 to either exceptional PDRFs, PDRFs who receive Fellowships, or PDRFs with novel
 contributions to innovation or industrial collaboration. This is an important aspect of our staffing
 strategy because we have a record of attracting PDRFs on postdoctoral fellowships including
 Marie Curie Intra-European Fellowships, MRC Skills Development Fellowships, EPSRC
 Mathematical Sciences Fellowships, Royal Society–SERB Newton International Fellows. During
 the assessment period we have had 7 proleptic posts transfer from Fellowship Awardee to
 (Senior) Lecturer, with 2 additional conversions planned after the REF census date. Moreover,
 with the Proleptic route to a staff appointment, commercialisation can complement a research
 trajectory. MRC Skills Development Fellow Woldman (R-only leaver 2019), who began as a PhD
 student in the LSM group, was one of the co-founders of the start-up Neuronostics (Section
 4.2.2), which provides decision support in epilepsy. Subsequently, Woldman worked part-time as
 scientific director for Neuronostics in addition to his academic research activities.

 In any active and engaged mathematics department, staff will leave to take up promotions and
 opportunities elsewhere. During the REF period we had 2 staff take external promotion
 opportunities: Terhesiu moved to an Assistant Professor post at Leiden University, and Terry to
 a Directorship of a Multidisciplinary Institute at the University of Birmingham. One staff member
 retired (Bailey).




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our promotion process (see 2.2) led to 1 staff member advancing from Associate Professor to
 Full Professor, 9 staff advancing from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor and 12 staff
 advancing from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer.

 2.2 STAFF CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT

 2.2.1 Training support for new staff
 New staff undergo a formal induction process designed to support individuals to welcome, settle,
 and help gain knowledge of Exeter and the environment. This includes: University, College, and
 job-specific level inductions. The induction also includes a lunch with the Vice-Chancellor and
 New Starter meetings with the Dean and HOD. Staff are informed about the induction
 procedures in their appointment letters and are allocated a trained Induction Facilitator in
 advance of their start date. The College induction resources include a standard checklist with
 details of mandatory training, including Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training, IT access,
 building information, and a list of key people within the College.

 2.2.2 Support through start-up, probation and promotion
 Each new staff member is mentored by their group’s Academic Lead (AL) through their 3-year
 probation period where the achievements required to pass probation are decided through
 discussions with the AL and HoD. Each new appointment is supported with a negotiable start-up
 package and often includes a PhD studentship, and a Professional Development Account
 (PDA). The PDA can be used for a wide range of research-related costs including local
 meetings, equipment, books, software, and travel. Module teaching is gradually increased to a
 full workload over the course of 2 years. We also use a workload model to achieve a balance of
 teaching, research, and administration. A minimum research allowance for all staff members
 (~20% of a workload) ensures all staff have time for research activities and grant development.

 2.2.3 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 The University of Exeter participates in the International Researcher Development Framework
 and was awarded the European HR Excellence in Research award for putting in place strategies
 to support the principles of the Researcher Development Concordat (ILES 2.9). The effects of
 this can be felt throughout the University and the Department in a range of support measures
 embedded through Section 2 (see: 1.5, 2.2.1, 2.2.2, 2.2.6). For example, our PDRFs have three
 progressive career stages, allowing support and training to develop over time as their needs
 change, and which has the further advantage of preparing PDRFs for transition to Lecturer.
 ECRs, at all stages, are supported via an active ECR Network (ECRN), which organizes focused
 career events such as the pathway to promotion and how to write grant applications. This
 experience includes an ‘ECR Hub’ that serves as a focal point for training, new funding
 opportunities, collaboration, competitions, and strategic representation. The organisation of
 ECRN within the Doctoral College ensures that all ECRs have access to university-wide
 networking. Within the department, as we describe in Section 2.2.2, ECRs are mentored by
 their group’s AL, and are supported throughout their early grant-writing experiences (Section
 2.2.6).

 2.2.4 Support for Career Development, including multidisciplinary collaboration, and
 Training
 To ensure that each member of staff has feedback about their career goals, all staff participate
 in an annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) with their AL. This is an arena where
 formal mentoring and academic planning take place for future development. Training for PDR
 reviewers is mandatory, and includes the importance of encouraging networking, attending
 conferences and personal development, continuous professional development and EDI
 activities.

 The University-wide ‘Exeter Academic’ (ILES 3.3) web pages for academic staff provide clear
 guidelines about expectations for probation and promotion. The guidelines are split into three
 key areas which are linked directly with the promotion criteria and ePDR, a web-based interface


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to managing the PDR, that take into account academic citizenship, impact, administration,
 research, teaching, pastoral and outreach work.

 We also benefit from a 2019 University-wide People Development strategy. This programme
 intends to increase staff awareness of the importance of managing their career and put tools in
 place to assist them. New activities include ‘Taking control of your career’ workshops, CV writing
 skills sessions, shadowing opportunities, and one-to-one career coaching.

 In addition to each staff member having a PDA for research expenses (Section 2.2.2), the
 College maintains a reservoir of Strategic Research Funds (SRF), available to all staff members
 by writing a 1-page request. The SRF funds can be used for visitor travel, conference travel,
 short term PDRF visits, or bridges gaps in funding to enable collaboration. As an example, these
 funds enabled a promising female PGR to have a 6-month research experience with Professor
 Kerrie Mengersen’s Bayesian statistics group at Queensland University of Technology in
 Australia.

 2.2.5 Support for Study Leave
 Our Study Leave Programme, similar to a sabbatical, is an important part of our research
 culture, providing uninterrupted time for staff to focus on creativity in research, promote
 international collaboration, and gain experience in another research environment. The staff
 member works with their AL, the DOR and the HOD to purpose the Study Leave and develop
 potential outcomes, allowing each member of staff to have the best experience possible. During
 the REF Period seven staff members participated in the programme, namely Akman, Ashwin,
 Challenor, Ferro, Holland, Saïdi, and Zhang.

 2.2.6 Support and planning of Research and Fellowship proposals
 Vital to both achieving our research goals and sustaining our active research culture, our
 Department has a robust mentoring, grant-writing, and reviewing process that involves the DOR,
 ALs, and a Departmental Peer-Review College. This support is complemented by a
 comprehensive set of college-level services and training (e.g., research council grant
 prioritization panel training, writing workshops, etc) and the University, via Research Services. A
 key resource is our Research Development Manager (RDM), an expert in Mathematics-focused
 research, who assists staff in the creation and development of bids, providing tacit knowledge for
 different research councils, helping staff create budgets and support with grant submission
 portals. Any bids likely to lead to panel interviews are supported by communications training and
 mock panels with senior academics. Further, we benefit from a comprehensive Research Toolkit
 (ILES 4.7) and a bi-annual workshop series, ‘IIB Essentials’, which provides focussed training for
 impactful research (ILES 3.6). Particular focus areas for support are ECRs, returners from
 parental leave and those with more experience, who have had previous successes, but have not
 had a grant award for a few years. Finally, the RDM and DOR work together to create and
 maintain a pipeline of our staff’s research ideas to ensure research development support is
 timely and strategic. As can be seen in Section 3, this approach has led to a significant increase
 in funding success during this REF period.

 2.3 RESEARCH STUDENT SUPPORT AND TRAINING

 PGR students make a crucial contribution to our research culture and activities, bringing ideas
 and energy from educational institutions from all over the world and forming a hub around which
 Mathematics staff from across the university convene. This includes shared PhD supervision
 between Penryn and Streatham staff members. In 2014/15 the UOA had 32 home/EU PGR
 students plus 14 international students. These numbers steadily increased over the REF
 assessment period to 48 home/EU and 20 international PGR students in 2018/2019. The UOA
 presently has 146 PGR students.

 2.3.1 Recruitment



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We recruit PhD students with a strong mathematics background by carrying out a national and
 international advertising process, underpinned by EDI considerations (Section 2.4), and
 facilitated by the Doctoral College (ILES 3.8-3.13). Students on the four-year MMath and MSci
 Mathematics undergraduate programmes regularly engage with research via summer research
 placements and final year projects. Many progress on to PhDs at Exeter or other institutions,
 and we have variants of the MSci programme that link directly to research activities in the
 research groups and the multidisciplinary institutes.

 2.3.2 Funding
 During the first part of the assessment period, funding sources for PGR students were primarily
       Figure 2: PhD Enrolment            from: new members of staff provided with a College-
                                           funded PhD studentship, international studentships
                                           sponsored by their government, participation in the Met
         + EPSRC Maths                     Office CASE studentship scheme, an EPSRC Doctoral
                                           Training Program (DTP), a GW4/NERC-funded DTP,
         + UKRI CDT                        and a BBSRC DTP. Since two of the DTPs are focused
                                           on multidisciplinary research, finding PhD studentships
                                           in foundational areas of mathematics was one of our
                                           biggest challenges. This changed with our 2019 UKRI
                                           EI CDT (Section 1.2.2), which allowed for a stronger
                                           mathematics recruitment and an increased volume of
                                           PGR studentships. We were also awarded new PhD
                                           studentships from an EPSRC Mathematical Sciences
                                           DTP leading to another strong increase in our
 enrolment. As evidence of progress on the vitality of our PhD programmes, Figure 2 shows the
 number of new enrolments of PhD students during the assessment period, showing a marked
 increase in the last 2 years.

 2.3.3 Training and Support
 The University, College, and Department of Mathematics ensure that all students receive
 appropriate training independent of their source of funding. The Doctoral College offers, as part
 of the mandatory training for PGRs, the “Welcome to the University” induction event, and also
 offers career support (planning for a professional future) including 1-2-1 careers appointments
 with dedicated Researcher Development Careers Coach with whom PGRs can discuss issues
 such as next steps and options, CV and application preparation, and interview preparation.
 Besides training and career support, the Mathematics PGRs participate in a mentoring
 programme within their research group. First year PhD students must undertake a programme of
 training and assessment consisting of at least 100 hours of advanced PhD training modules, in
 compliance with EPSRC expectations for Mathematics PhDs. Opportunities for this training
 include MSc modules in Mathematics, lecture courses from the EPSRC-supported MAGIC
 Taught Course Centre (http://maths-magic.ac.uk) and participation at Academy for PhD Training
 in Statistics (APTS) courses. Exeter plays a leading role in the development of MAGIC (Ashwin
 is Director of the MAGIC TCC since 2016). We are a Member Institution for the APTS and make
 extra research funds available to ensure all our PhD students in statistics can attend the annual
 APTS training weeks, which are residential (in normal years) and attended by over 150 students
 from major statistics groups across the country. The courses play a key role in preparing our
 students for their research projects and future careers, and in helping them integrate with the UK
 statistics community. PhD students are also encouraged to attend relevant external courses and
 workshops such as the NCAS summer school in atmospheric modelling, the STFC course on
 solar physics and the European Research Course in Atmospheres (ERCA). Examples of skills
 training http://as.exeter.ac.uk/support/development/researchstudents/ provided by the University
 includes formalised Generic Skills training and employability skills.

 Progress monitoring is captured by uploading reports, feedback, and other materials into
 MyPGR which maintains all of the student records as well as contact with supervisors. The first
 year monitoring includes a report, presentation to a small group of academic staff, a viva and a
 formal review of training undertaken, ensuring that students have clear objectives on entering

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their second year. PhD students must give at least one research seminar during the first two
 years of their degree. They are actively encouraged to organize or co-organise events (such as
 group meetings or workshops) as well as being funded to participate in relevant international or
 national research conferences and workshops. Since October 2019 there is also a Department-
 wide PGR-organized seminar held every two weeks. In addition, our statistics PhD students
 hosted the 42nd Research Students’ Conference in Probability and Statistics on the 18th-21st
 June 2019.

 2.4 EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

 The Department of Mathematics strives to ensure that our staff and students experience a
 working environment built upon a foundation of inclusivity, diversity, equality and respect. In our
 most recent Departmental survey, 89% of staff indicated they had a good working relationship
 with colleagues. Our first Departmental EDI working group was focused mainly on gender
 issues, but after our 2014 Athena Swan Silver application, we expanded its mission to include all
 protected characteristics and renamed it to WIDER (Workplace Excellence, Inclusion, Diversity,
 Equality and Respect). To ensure our practices promote continuous evolution of EDI activities,
 members of WIDER develop and maintain the Department’s EDI Action Plan and are allocated
 dedicated time within the UOE workload model ensuring they are able to commit to their EDI
 work. The Head of Department’s membership on the group ensures there is an immediate
 conduit for actions that need to be taken. Examples of the types of activities intended to evolve
 and improve our EDI culture include the following: 1) Modifying Departmental communication to
 ensure there is no gender-bias; 2) EDI training for all interview panel members; 3) a female
 member of staff on every interview panel; 4) individual mentoring for females passing through
 key career transition points; 5) a comprehensive parental leave plan; and 6) new undergraduate
 recruitment plans to ensure all potential students feel welcome. We currently have two senior
 female professors from the UOA in key leadership roles: Wingate – DOR, Tsaneva – Associate
 Dean of the College. We have a number of new activities planned for 2021, for example, an EDI
 training module that covers all protected characteristics. We also recently (2019) became a
 member of Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter and have implemented a number of initiatives
 such as BAME leadership development programs. WIDER also recently committed to
 decolonising the curriculum activities.

 EDI considerations have fully informed the department’s REF2021 return. All members of the
 Outputs Selection Panel have received externally provided unconscious bias training arranged
 by the University. Internal and external evaluations of the outputs and impact case studies have
 been discussed in terms of EDI and adjustments made when necessary. Furthermore, we have
 ensured the example activities in the Department represent a wide cross section our staff,
 especially those with protected characteristics.

 Examples of how our policies have positively impacted our EDI environment for gender balance
 include: 1) of our new hires: 30% are female and 70% are male, improving the overall gender
 female/male balance of staff from 14% in 2014 to 17% in 2020; 2) The percentage of permanent
 female professors has gone from 9.2% in 2014 to 14.4% in 2020; 3) PhD student gender
 balance has gone from 22% in 2014 to 38% in 2020. Further evidence of our EDI activities
 includes the award of 3 Athena Swan Charters: Bronze 2014, Silver 2016 (4th mathematics
 department in the UK), and Bronze 2019.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 RESEARCH FUNDING PORTFOLIO

                                           We have attracted more than £31M in Research Grant
                                           Awards (an average of £92K/FTE/year) and £20.4M
                                           Research Grant Income (average £61K/FTE/year) over
                                           the assessment period, a significant increase since our
                                           REF2014 submission (average £33K/FTE/year).
                                           Evidence of our growing research strength includes
                                           success across all our research groups, as well as a
                                           steady annual increase in the research income per FTE
                                           per year, shown at left, from £38K/FTE/year in 2014 to
                                           £80K/FTE/year in 2020. The source of this increase is
 not only ~13 new staff, but a community spirit outlook on research creativity and grant writing
 that involves mentorship and review complemented by sustained research development and
 grant writing support (Section 2.2.6). The research grants come from a diverse range of funding
 sources: £14.05M from UKRI Research Councils, £1.5M other UK Government bodies, £1.8M
 UK Competitive Charities, £578K UK Industry, £2.11M from EU, £234K from Non-EU.

 Our external funding has not only been important for mathematics research but has also been
 critical to 1) creating impact from our research and 2) contributing to the career development of
 our staff, PDRFs, and PhDs. We also use our funded projects as opportunities to create
 research ecosystems of academic staff, PDRFs, PhD students, M-level students and 3rd year
 project students that allow mathematics students to experience working on cutting-edge
 research projects. Another example of the important role of research grants is the opportunity
 for ECRs to focus attention on research early in their career and in this period, we had 9 ECR-
 focused awards (e.g., EPSRC New Investigator, MRC Fellowship, ERC Starting grant, STFC
 Ernest Rutherford Fellowship).

 Highlights of our funded research grants by group:

       NTAG: Awards include a Leverhulme Research Project Grant (Andrade, £280K), an
        EPSRC Standard Grant (Langer, £382K), and two EPSRC New Investigator
        Award/First Grant (Tseng, £125K and Johnston, £99K) and two new EPSRC Standard
        Grants (Byott, £362K and Saïdi, £364K) set to begin in 2021. An important outcome of
        these grants is the presence of two PDRFs in the group, and another two more to be
        hired in early 2021.

       DSA: Awards include an EPSRC Fellowship (Sieber, £639K), two EPSRC New
        Investigator Awards (Bick, £237K and Terhesiu, £140K), an EPSRC New Horizons
        award (Sieber, £200K, beginning in 2021), two EPSRC Networks (listed in
        Section 4.1.3), EPSRC grants in nonautonomous dynamical systems (Ashwin, £492k)
        and statistics of extremes (Holland, £344k), and two major recent EU awards: The EU
        H2020 project “Tipping points in the Earth system (TiPES)” 2019-2023, €8.8M (€600K
        to Exeter) and Marie Sklodowska-Curie ITN “CriticalEarth” 2021-2025, €4.1M (€500K to
        Exeter) and ITN “CRITICS” 2015-2019 (€500K to Exeter), hosting two PhDs and a
        regular stream of PhD visitors from around Europe. DSA also has significant roles in the
        EPSRC Centre for Quantitative Modelling in Healthcare (Ashwin and Biktashev Co-I)
        and the EPSRC Hub for Quantitative Modelling in Healthcare.

       SDS: Examples of UKRI funding include the EPSRC Mathematical Sciences Models to
        Decisions (Challenor £379K), NERC BigFoot (Challenor £1.8M), and CAMPUS
        (Challenor £387K) as well as funding from non-research council sources such as the
        Alan Turing Institute (Challenor, Williamson), the World Bank (Stephenson), WHO
        (Shaddick), and Willis Towers Watson (Stephenson). More recently, members of the

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        group were awarded funding to aid in the fight against COVID-19: Uncertainty
        Quantification for Expensive COVID-19 Simulation Models (Williamson £357K). The
        group has a significant role in both the EPSRC Centre for Quantitative Modelling in
        Healthcare (Challenor Co-I) and the EPSRC Hub for Quantitative Modelling in
        Healthcare.

       LSM: Strategic research grants includes 2 key multidisciplinary EPSRC Healthcare
        Centres: 1) £2M for the EPSRC Centre for Predictive Modelling in Healthcare in 2016
        (PI: Terry) and 2) £1.2M EPSRC Hub for Quantitative Modelling in Healthcare in 2020
        (PI: Tsaneva), as well as 3) a ~£3M combined Welcome Trust institutional Strategic
        Support Fund (ISSF) 2&3. These grants brought in a number of ECR fellows who went
        on to win key ECR research grants, including Wan (ERC Starting grant £1.95M),
        Walker (MRC fellowship £800k), Wedgwood (£360k MRC fellowship) and Rankin
        (EPSRC New Investigator).

       GAFD: Two important EPSRC Mathematical Sciences grants: 1) on oscillations in
        PDEs (Wingate £868K), and 2) on geometry and fluid dynamics (Gilbert, Mason
        £700K). Funding was also attracted for mathematical modelling of physical systems
        from STFC (Berger, Hillier, Wingate, Zhang £1.2M), and NERC (Thuburn Phase I:
        £738K, Phase II £495K).

       EM: Examples of the group’s economic-facing mathematical activities include the
        completion of 3 KTPs and 3 European Regional Development funds (ERDF) detailed in
        Section 4.2. These, along with an EU H2020 project OPERA, devoted to developing
        clean energy, total well over £1.6M in mathematics’ contributions toward £12.7M
        invested in Exeter University for regional, national and EU economic development.

 3.2 SPECIAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 3.2.1 Library facilities
 Members of the Department have access to research literature through the University of Exeter
 Library (ILES 4.15), which maintains subscriptions to more than 14,000 journals, including those
 used by the unit and provides extended access to monographs through the inter-library loan
 scheme at no cost to researchers. The UOA coordinates with the Library through a dedicated
 library liaison officer.

 3.2.2 Open Access
 Open Access in publishing ensures our research is freely available, and in 2014 UOE set up a
 central fund, regularly accessed by the unit’s staff, to help facilitate open access publishing. The
 Exeter University Library also facilitates and maintains funds for Open Access publishing
 (ILES 2.8), as well as helping people navigate the existing agreements between journals and
 Open Access. We require all researchers to submit their outputs to ORE within 3 months of
 acceptance and these are made publicly available as soon as possible after publisher’s embargo
 periods. ORE is not only a repository for research outputs but also provides facilities to make
 research data openly available. During the REF period, over 230,000 of our unit’s outputs and
 other research related files have been downloaded from ORE by users across the globe.

 3.2.3 Computing facilities and IT and Research Software Engineering
 Computing capability is critical infrastructure in an era where computer architectures are
 changing; UOE resources include both standard HPC clusters and novel architectures. The
 University’s investment in computing and research facilities (ILES 4.20) includes the University’s
 £3M HPC (ISCA), which combines a traditional computing cluster of nodes with a virtualized
 cluster environment and is available to all members of staff. Access to novel architectures
 comes through our membership in the GW4 consortia that successfully bid for a novel
 architecture, the £3M EPSRC Tier-2 Computer: GW4 Advanced Architectures project (CO-I:
 Wingate). A further £4.1M of funding has recently been granted

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=EP%2FT022078%2F1, February 2020) for Isambard 2 that will
 make use of cutting-edge A64fx processors that offer memory bandwidth and floating-point
 performance closer to GPUs than CPUs. Also, critical, both to research repeatability and
 developing research capability in mathematical algorithms, is the recent creation and recruitment
 of a Research Software Engineering (RSE) group to provide support to researchers in the
 development of effective and efficient codes on the increasing complement of diverse
 architectures.

 3.2.4 Impacts and Industry Infrastructure
 One of the major themes of development in the unit was increasing the potential for mathematics
 impacts, partnerships and industrial engagement. In response we have engaged with the
 University’s 100 FTE+ Innovation, Impact and Business Directorate (IIB) (ILES 4.5-4.8) resulting
 in thematic teams that provide one-to-one support for the development of partnerships and
 impact. Academics who desire to take their work toward economic impacts are assigned an IIB
 specialist and they work together to ensure success, in many situations identifying new potential
 impacts and outcomes that academics had not known were possible. In short, if research
 involves engagement with business or policy makers, IIB are there every step of the way to
 provide skills and support that allow the mathematician to focus on problem solving and on
 furthering their own research within new contexts, safe in the knowledge that impact will be
 secured and recorded and that any additional complexities that arise as a consequence of
 working with non-academic partners will be managed. Since 2018, IIB and the DOR and DOI
 meet on a regular basis to monitor and identify opportunities to grow our impacts through
 tailored initiatives aimed to build the discipline’s strengths and impact culture, such as the
 establishment of an ‘IIB Essential Series’ in 2018 with academic training sessions focused on
 partnership development and pathways to impact. In addition to supporting the 4 impact case
 studies submitted to this REF, IIB maintains a pipeline of development that includes 3 additional
 impact case studies, which will mature over the next REF period.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 In this section we provide examples of our 1) collaborations, networks and partnerships, 2) our
 relationships with key research users, 3) contributions to the research base, the economy and
 society.

 4.1 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS

 4.1.1 Academic multidisciplinary collaborations
 Examples of multidisciplinary research and outcomes include:
     - Multidisciplinary research funding and outputs. In terms of research funding 39% of
        grants (by number) are held with researchers in other UOAs. The EI CDT, for example, is
        led by Mathematics, but involves investigators from Computer Science, Geography,
        Sociology, and the Business School to tackle contemporary environmental challenges
        using AI and data science. Our multidisciplinary contributions are also reflected in our
        research output: 18.6% of research papers from UOA10 are jointly co-authored with
        colleagues outside the UOA (this does not include outputs that are authored by someone
        in UOA10 and colleagues from another discipline at a different institution).

    -   Research students across institutes. Many of the UOA’s PGR students have supervisors
        in different research groups or involve colleagues outside of the UOA. This type of
        interaction is facilitated by structured programs such as the EI CDT, but also evolves
        naturally due to multidisciplinary research projects. For example, PhD projects across
        groups include exploring delay effects in climate tipping points (Cox-CD/Sieber-DSA),
        perceptual rivalry in haptic sensors (Rankin-LSM/Ashwin-DSA) and understanding brain
        dynamics in Alzheimer’s disease (Goodfellow-LSM/Jon Brown-Medical School), as part
        of the Alzheimer’s Society Exeter Dementia Doctoral Training Centre.



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   Research initiatives across the University. Mathematical novelty is a key component of
        UOE’s research strategy. As such, we have many cross-university research initiatives
        such as data science (organised through the IDSAI) and high-performance computing
        (cross-university interactions occur through the joint High-Performance Computing
        seminar series). Further examples of multidisciplinary contributions include a recently
        established group in network science, involving researchers in Mathematics, Computer
        Science, Neuroscience, the Business School, and other parts of the University. This has
        led to sustained activities, for example a “Networks Day” in 2019 led to collaboration with
        Computer Science in providing speakers for CompleNet 2020 (a leading network science
        conference due to be held in Exeter in April 2020, but postponed due to the pandemic),
        and a cross-departmental “Networks Colloquium” in September 2020.
 4.1.2 Non-academic collaborations
 In addition to our two key non-academic collaborations, the Met Office and the World Health
 Organization (Section 1.1.2), we also collaborate with numerous industrial partners mentioned
 throughout; examples including Hirst Magnetic Instruments (Section 4.2.2) and Willis Towers
 Watson (see Section 1.2.3). Further examples follow:
 4.1.3 Regional and national collaboration
 As a major research cluster in the South-West of England, we are synergizing by forming
 networks in the region and the nation.
    -   The GW4 Alliance (https://gw4.ac.uk/) between the Universities of Bristol, Bath, Cardiff,
        and Exeter, the UOA collaborates on numerous projects (ILES 1.8). Relevant to the unit
        are collaborations on the EPSRC Tier 2 high-performance computing (HPC) architecture
        and a shared NERC-funded GW4+ CDT (PhD studentships and research projects)
        cutting across the earth, environmental and life sciences.
    -   Regional collaborations. Exeter led the EPSRC funded project Research on Changes of
        Variability and Environmental Risk (ReCoVER) from 2015–2018 (PI: Ashwin). ReCoVER
        involved a number of experts from the South-West of England (including Bristol and
        Bath). This built on collaborations initiated in the CliMathNet network (co-founded by
        Ashwin in 2010) to promote the development of novel mathematical tools and
        applications for understanding, predicting and managing the effects of environmental
        change. ReCoVER funded 21 research projects across four funding schemes, while also
        running a number of complementary meetings and workshops: These projects produced
        lasting impact beyond their research goals: For example, Shipton, who worked on a pilot
        study Time-Parallel Methods For Climate Models as a PDRF from Imperial College,
        recently joined the UOA as a Lecturer and works with Met Office to explore the potential
        of these ideas for next-generation weather models.
 4.1.4 Global collaborations and outreach
 Our staff members have international collaborators from around the globe. A sample of our
 activities include:
    -   Conference and workshop organization. To bring communities together, we regularly
        hold leading international conferences and other meetings that attract experts from
        around the world. Examples include (a) Dynamics Days Europe 2015 at the UOE
        (Ashwin, Bick, Sieber, Rodrigues), (b) London Mathematical Society and Clay
        Mathematics Institute Research School Conference (Andrade; 2018), (c) Theo Murphy
        Royal Society international meeting at Chicheley Hall (Wan; 2019), (d) Erwin Schrodinger
        Institute Thematic Programme `Mixing flows and averaging methods’ (Terhesiu; 2016),
        (e) International Astronomical Union Symposium 335 'Space Weather of the Heliosphere:
        Processes and Forecasts (Foullon; 2018), (f) Newton Institute programme on
        Mathematical and Statistical challenges in landscape decision making (Challenor; 2019),
        (g) International Conference for Technology and Analysis of Seizures (Goodfellow,
        2019).



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    -   Visiting Scholars Program. The David Rees Distinguished Visiting Fellowship scheme
        enables mathematicians of international renown to spend an extended period of time at
        the UOE. Recent Rees fellows include Michael Benedicks (Royal Institute of
        Technology–KTH, Sweden), Zeev Rudnick (Tel-Aviv University, Israel), and Arek Goetz
        (San Francisco State, USA).
    -   Staff International Collaboration. A selection of examples includes 1) Vallis: NSF-NERC
        grant with Harvard University (2019), and a separate grant with researchers from the
        Chinese Academy of Science; 2) Saïdi: joint publications on anabelian geometry with
        Tamagawa in the Research Institute for Mathematical Sciences at Kyoto university
        (RIMS); 3) Hillier: coauthor with academics from Kyoto University, Osaka University, KU
        Leuven, Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, Stanford-Lockheed Institute for Space
        Research and more; 4) Wan: co-author with colleagues from University of Southern
        California, Georgia Tech, and Tsinghua University; 5) Economou: co-author with
        researchers from Norwegian Meteorological Institute, and Fiocruz public health institute
        in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, whose collaboration is imperative for Economou’s Impact Case
        Study.


 4.2 RELATIONSHIP WITH KEY RESEARCH USERS

 Due to our multidisciplinary collaborations, the research users lie within the Department, in other
 disciplines and beyond. In the following we give explicit examples how we foster and exploit
 mathematics impact in academic and industrial contexts, sometimes feeding directly into the
 local and national economy.

 4.2.1 Impactful research informs new mathematics
 Mathematics research in collaboration with UOE’s Institutes (Section 1.1.1) is not only a rich
 environment for advancing problems of scientific and societal importance, but also creates brand
 new veins of research in mathematics itself that would not have been identified without the
 multidisciplinary motivation. Two examples during the assessment period are:

    -   Critical Transitions in non-autonomous systems: As an outgrowth of multidisciplinary
        research, we are developing new methods for understanding instabilities in multiscale
        dynamical systems. An example is our work in critical transitions and applied non-
        autonomous dynamical systems, which led to a successful EPSRC grant (see Section
        3.1 DSA). This work applies mathematical analysis to problems of very wide potential
        relevance and impact, particularly in both environmental science and healthcare
        applications.

    -   Applications inspire new fundamental results in statistics. Williamson’s applied work with
        the National Oceanography Centre, which looked into quantifying uncertainty in climate
        change projections using complex computer models, led to new results in foundational
        Bayesian statistics. The paper won the 2016 Lindley prize awarded by the International
        Society of Bayesian Analysis (see also Awards below).

 4.2.2 Impact with industry and beyond
 We also work directly with users of our mathematical research. This includes researchers that
 work at the interface of research and commercial spin-off. Commercialisation is facilitated and
 supported by IIB (Section 1.1.2 and 3.2.4), which directly fed into each of the examples below.
    -   Exploitation and Commercialization. IIB has successfully supported the UOA to
        commercialize research results and secure intellectual property; we secured 2 patents in
        the assessment period. For example, IIB worked with members of LSM to put funds in
        place to develop clinical decision support tools and at-home monitoring devices for
        people with suspected neurological conditions. This led to the formation of the spin-out
        company Neuronostics supported by Innovate UK funding (£159,710; Woldman, Terry)
        and Innovate UK Health & Life Sciences scheme for BioEP Proof of Concept (£344,138;

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Neuronostics, Woldman as PI & Scientific Director). Patents relating to the work above
        include GB1209975.0; PCT/GB2013/051485—Assessing Susceptibility to Epilepsy
        06.06.2012 (Terry, Richardson), GB1514740.8; PCT/GB2016/052556—Epilepsy Surgery
        19.08.2015 (Terry, Goodfellow).
    -   Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) and impact to the economy. The UOA is
        developing innovative mathematics together with its users directly to benefit the
        economy; this has resulted in 5 KTPs. For example, the EM group on the Penryn
        Campus in Cornwall contributes to the economy of the Southwest of England: Mueller
        and Townley have completed two KTPs, KTP9848 with NJW Ltd. in built environment
        and KTP10698 with Hirst Magnetic Instruments Ltd. on magnet characterisation.
        McKinley and Das are collaborating in KTP11666 with Chelonia Ltd. on data analytics for
        marine-life monitoring.
    -   Impact of EM on the Wider Economy. EM also hosts two industry-funded PhD project
        students. Through the ERDF funded projects Marine-i, Smartline and Tevi, the EM has
        established substantive engagement with Cornish SMEs. For example, in Tevi, Mueller
        leads the “electric vehicle charging network challenge”, which draws on multi-objective
        optimisation methods to enable the decarbonisation of transport in Cornwall. In
        Smartline, Mueller works with Buzz Interactive Ltd. on the development of a self-
        assessment and assistance application for Meniere’s Disease. Townley leads an
        industrial collaboration with Hirst Magnetics on world-leading technology development in
        the characterisation of magnetic materials.
 4.2.3 Recognition
 The innovative efforts of the unit and their impacts have also attracted interest beyond the
 mathematics community. Recognition of non-academic interest in our research is that our work
 is featured in the popular press: 93 outputs (9%) of UOA outputs created over the REF period
 received popular news coverage according to Altmetric by a combined total of 1069 (national
 and international) news outlets. This includes for example an article on the burden of disease
 attributable to ambient air pollution published in The Lancet (Shaddick, 2017). These outputs not
 only cover publications in journals like Nature and The Lancet but also in mathematics journals
 like the SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics. Finally, participation in international computer
 architecture activities, such as GW4’s Isambard and Isambard 2 (Section 4.1.3) contributed to
 promotion of the UK-based ARM processors (e.g. see
 https://www.nextplatform.com/2017/11/13/arm-benchmarks-show-hpc-ripe-processor-shakeup/
 ).
 4.3 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 Here we give concrete examples as evidence of our achievements and their recognition.

 4.3.1 Contribution to the discipline
 Through our national and international communities as outlined above, we directly contribute to
 mathematics as a discipline. This effort includes hosting researchers and conferences at Exeter
 as mentioned in Section 1 and in other parts of Section 4. Apart from this we contribute in other
 ways:
    -   Leadership in Academic Societies. Many staff members participate in academic
        societies, for example, the London Mathematical Society (LMS), the European
        Mathematical Society (EMS), the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM),
        Institute of Applied Mathematica (IMA), the Royal Astronomical Society, the Royal
        Meteorological Society. Beyond membership, our faculty includes fellows of academic
        societies: These include Fellows of the IMA (Gilbert, 2002; Wingate, 2015; Tsaneva,
        2020), Royal Astronomical Society (Gilbert, 2001). Further our academics take up
        leadership roles within the community: For example, Ashwin is a founding member of the
        SIAM Activity Group of the Mathematics of Planet Earth and Wingate recently served as
        its secretary. Since 2021 Ashwin serves on the Council of the LMS.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    -   Vallis published the second edition of his book, Atmospheric and Oceanic Fluid
        Dynamics, a significant contribution to classical applied mathematics and now regarded
        as the standard text in the field.
    -   Editorial roles. Our academics have served on editorial boards of a broad range of
        academic journals, including the SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems (Sieber),
        Philosophical Transaction of the Royal Society B (Recker, Wan), Proceedings of the
        Royal Society B (Recker), Bayesian Analysis (Williamson), Bulletin/Journal/Proceedings
        of London Mathematical Society (Byott), Annual Reviews of Fluid Mechanics (Vallis).

 4.3.2 Contribution to wider society
 The academics in our UOA are active beyond the discipline and work to contribute to local and
 global challenges.
    -   Contributing to societal challenges. As a UOA we contribute to solving some of the
        crucial challenges facing society. Examples of wide interest in the UOA’s contributions is
        evidenced by coverage in the popular press (see 4.2.3) and include (a) the burden of
        disease attributable to ambient air pollution, (b) permafrost loss as a function of global
        warming, and (c) neurodegenerative diseases and epilepsy that affect a large part of the
        population. Moreover, Data Science is essential to make progress towards some
        pressing challenges of our times, for example, tracing contacts during a pandemic.
        Further, 4 of our ATI Fellows contribute, for example, to uncertainty quantification
        (Challenor, Kelson, Shaddick, Williamson).
    -   Promoting mathematics locally. Members of our UOA promote mathematics locally and
        specifically to underprivileged groups. In addition, the Department has a close
        relationship with the Exeter Mathematics School (EMS), a state funded sixth form school
        jointly sponsored by the UOE and Exeter College, established in 2014. It is one of only 2
        specialist mathematics schools in the UK and is open to gifted students from across
        Cornwall, Devon, Dorset and Somerset. Academics from our UOA are directly involved
        with many of the student-facing activities at the EMS. For example, we supervise student
        projects, help with mock admission interviews, and ensure students engage with
        academics with protected characteristics, which promotes EDI for EMS students during
        their sixth form experience.
    -   Promoting mathematics globally. We also promote mathematics teaching and research
        globally in developing countries. Recent activities include a PGR student teaching as part
        of the new “International Masters in Mathematics” programme in Lahore (Pakistan). Bick
        is an External Visiting Scholar for the UNESCO-funded Abdus Salam International
        Centre for Theoretical Physics to develop mathematics teaching and research capacity in
        Yangon (Myanmar/Burma). As part of this work, our academics provided expertise to
        help develop the mathematics curriculum at the University of Yangon.

 4.3.3 Recognition of Exeter’s leadership
 Our leadership and contributions to the community, society, and beyond are recognized by the
 community. Examples of this recognition include:
    -   Keynotes and Named Lectures. Members of the UOA have given more than 65 keynote
        and named lectures worldwide during this REF period. Examples include specialized
        meetings in pure and applied mathematics, e.g., a workshop on p-adic Analytic
        Geometry and Differential Equations at the Centre International de Rencontres
        Mathématiques—CIRM (di Proietto), medium-sized international conferences, e.g.,
        Dynamics Days Europe 2016 (Sieber; 300+ delegates), as well as plenary lectures at
        large international conferences such as the SIAM Conference on Computational Science
        and Engineering (Wingate; 1000+ delegates). In 2017–2019, Wingate alone gave four
        plenary lectures at leading international meetings with more than 500 delegates.
    -   Prizes, awards, and fellowships. Examples of recognition within the current REF period
        includes the Wolfson Merit Award–Royal Society (Stephenson, 2015; Vallis, 2015),


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        L. F. Richardson Prize–Royal Meteorological Society (Ferro, 2016), Adrian Gill Prize–
        Royal Meteorological Society (Vallis, 2014), Lindley Prize–The International Society for
        Bayesian Analysis (Williamson, 2016), Hans Fischer Fellowship (Bick and Tsaneva,
        2019).
    -   Commissions of trust. Members of our UOA serve on international committees and in
        advisory roles for the government and other international institutions. This includes
        (a) advisory boards for international conference series, e.g., Dynamics Days Europe
        (Ashwin, Bick), (b) advisory committees of the national research councils and learned
        societies, e.g., BBSRC Research Committee C Core (Tsaneva), EPSRC Mathematical
        Science Strategic Advisory Team (SAT) (Challenor), EPSRC e-Infrastructure SAT
        (Wingate), EPSRC Strategic Advisory Network (Tsaneva from April 2021); Scientific
        steering committee of ExCALIBUR–SPF (Wingate), LMS Council (Ashwin, beginning in
        2021) (c) the UK government, e.g., the UK Space Agency's Science Programme
        Advisory Committee (Foullon) (d) advisory roles for international agencies, e.g., the
        advisory team for NOAA’s Next Generation Global Prediction System, USA (Thuburn),
        and (e) prize committees, e.g., the Blavatnik Awards, SIAM, London Mathematical
        Society (Wingate). Members of the UOA also regularly take part in funding Prioritization
        Panels of the UKRI-associated funding bodies.




                                                                                           Page 19
