Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Nottingham

Unit of Assessment: Economics and Econometrics

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    a) Overview

The School of Economics at University of Nottingham hosts one of the United Kingdom’s largest
and most internationally diverse group of researchers in the field of economics and econometrics.
The School offers an interdisciplinary research environment spanning all the core themes of
modern economics and econometrics together with international economics, development studies,
behavioural science, political economy and a growing interest in economic data science.

A growing department with an expanding group of younger faculty, the School continues to rise in
international and national research rankings and is expanding into new research areas alongside
building on existing strengths. The School is a hub for international, interdisciplinary, high-impact
research initiatives including the Nottingham - Bank of England – Stanford Decision Maker Panel,
the Centre for Globalisation and Economic Policy and the ESRC Network for Integrated
Behavioural Science.

Through the challenges presented by Covid-19, the unit has proven itself to be sustainable, with a
strong financial support base and experienced research leadership. The resilience of the School’s
financial position derives from the diversified research income portfolio, high entry tariff of the
undergraduate programme, sustainable intake of the MSc programme (with significant geographic
diversification in the intake) and ongoing core funding for research activities. These have each
proven resilient to the financial turbulence presented by Covid-19. Since the School has undertaken
prudent financial management and sustained its finances with an increase in external research
grant capture during this period, it has been able to preserve existing human capital and has made
new appointments. The sustainability of the School’s financial underpinnings has supported new
research opportunities arising from the Covid-19 pandemic and feed into national and local
government policy responses, while maintaining the creativity and vitality of the full portfolio of
research activity.

    b) Highlights

Research achievements of the School during the REF period include:

       The School consistently ranks within the top-10 economics departments in the UK and
        the top-40 economics departments in the world according to the Tilburg Economics
        Ranking and top 35 economics departments in the IDEAS ranking, ranking 33rd in the world
        ranking as of January 2020. The School ranks 6th within the UK in the Tilburg ranking and
        5th within the UK in the IDEAS ranking. For cognitive and behavioural science, the School
        ranks 2nd in the world according to the IDEAS ranking.
       Whereas the School did not have any female professors at the time of the REF 2014
        submission, it now has five female professors (Barr, Montero, Rickne, Sonderegger and
        Testa), including among them the appointment of the first female Director to one of the
        School’s Research Centres (Testa) and the first Deputy Head of School (Barr). In three
        cases, new female professorships were obtained via successful internal promotions.
       Since 2017, the launch of new research initiatives within the School including programmes
        in Gender Economics and the Nottingham Decision Maker Panel, which have attracted
        substantial University and external funding and support.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Substantial increase in investment in junior training and hiring, reflected in the School
        becoming fully-engaged in the European and American job market rounds and a significant
        increase in starting salaries of junior faculty hires on par with, and in many cases exceeding,
        the offerings of other top UK economics departments. Over the REF period, the School has
        made junior hires out of PhD programmes at, inter alia, University of California Berkeley,
        Northwestern university, University of California San Diego, University of Wisconsin-
        Madison, University of California, Los Angeles, SciencesPo, Barcelona Graduate School,
        and University of Maryland.
       The School has contributed to research on the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. UKRI
        rapid response grants for new research relating to Covid-19 were obtained by De Fraja,
        Gathergood, Mizen and Starmer, together with re-purposing of funding received by the
        Decision Maker Panel and Network for Integrated Behavioural Science. Bradley, Ruggieri
        and Spencer received a British Academy Special Research Grant to work on the effects of
        Covid-19 on the labour market. The School has engaged enthusiastically with the UKRI-
        funded Economics Observatory. Those grant holders are also regular contributors to print
        media including the Financial Times, Economist, Wall St Journal, New York Times, Times,
        Sunday Times, Independent, Guardian, Telegraph, Bloomberg, Reuters and VoxEU.

    c) Context and Structure

The School of Economics hosts over 55 academics and 60 PhD students, together with a large
postgraduate community of more than 150 students complemented by an academically thriving
undergraduate community of over 1,000 students. Over the past two decades, the School has
grown in both size and diversity of research and in research environment, with interdisciplinary
research interests spanning Development Studies, Behavioural Science, Political Economy and
Data Science.

With this growth in size and diversity, the School’s research is now represented in multiple
submissions to the REF exercise. The School’s research seeks to contribute to both disciplinary
and interdisciplinary fields and sub-fields and avoids a silo-based approach limited to particular
REF units. Of particular note, the large and growing Centre for Development and International
Trade (CREDIT) contributes to the University’s submission to UoA22 Anthropology and
Development Studies. School staff and fellows also contribute to the submission to UoA17
Business and Management Studies. While this submission focuses on the School’s contribution to
UoA16 Economics and Econometrics, it arises from the broader context of a thriving, diverse and
multi-faceted interdisciplinary School.

The main research activity in the School is organised into Research Centres and research
initiatives. Research centres constitute core groups of internal and external fellows working in
focused areas representing the School’s research strengths. They convene research projects,
conferences and seminar programmes, together with building technical and intellectual capacity to
showcase and disseminate impact-oriented research success in the School. Over the REF period,
the School has invested in both existing Centres and Initiatives and invested in new undertakings.

Throughout the REF period the School has built on the achievements of its existing Research
Centres and has broadened its research portfolio into new areas:

       Behavioural Economics research at Nottingham is represented by the Centre for Decision
        Research and Experimental Economics (CeDEx), which hosts the ESRC Network for
        Integrated Behavioural Science (NIBS).
            o CeDEx is a world-leading research group that investigates human decision-making
               using theoretical and experimental methods. CeDEx has global reach, produces
               cutting-edge research with societal impact and is consistently highly ranked in the

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                field of Behavioural Economics. During the REF period, CeDEx has expanded
                internationally, with a new laboratory at University of Nottingham, Ningbo, China.
            o NIBS is a partnership among the Universities of Nottingham, Warwick and East
                Anglia. NIBS was established as a cross-disciplinary group of researchers who
                develop and test models of human behaviour and behavioural change, and draw out
                their implications for the formulation and evaluation of public policy. Hosted at
                Nottingham, NIBS has received in excess of £7m in ESRC funding since inception in
                2012 in the form of a Centre Grant and follow-on Large Grant. NIBS hosts two
                annual events and is heavily involved in research impact generation, further detailed
                below.
       The Nottingham Centre for Research on Globalisation and Economic Policy (GEP) is the
        major centre in Europe studying the impact of globalisation and economic policy and one of
        the biggest of its kind in the world. GEP has invested in its international profile, with
        burgeoning research hubs at the University campuses in China and Malaysia, a new
        programme on productivity and international trade. GEP has also made strategic
        appointments of Rodriguez-Clare (part-time) at a senior level and Graziano, Spencer,
        Tian, Vizcaino at the junior level.
       The Granger Centre for Time Series Econometrics has received new strategic direction
        and leadership with the appointment of Trapani as Director and increasing interaction with
        international researchers based at the University’s China Campus. The Granger Centre has
        also expanded its research portfolio with new investments in Data Science and a
        forthcoming MSc programme in Economics and Data Science. The Granger Centre Seminar
        Series has expanded to become the UK’s largest seminar programme focusing on Time
        Series Econometrics.
       The Nottingham Interdisciplinary Centre for Economic and Political Research (NICEP)
        was established in 2015 through a collaborative effort between the School of Economics
        and University of Nottingham’s School of Politics and International Relations to promote
        interdisciplinary work at the intersection between Economics and Politics. Supported by a
        University Research Board Discipline Bridging Award and a member of the POLECONUK
        (Political Economy UK) network, the Centre brings together very distinct approaches to the
        study of political institutions and public decision making. The centre aims to promote
        interdisciplinary work in four main thematic areas: Representation, Political behaviour,
        Political economy and public policy, and Quality of government. NICEP hosts an annual
        conference and in 2019 hosted the POLECONUK annual conference.
       The Centre for Finance, Credit and Macroeconomics (CFCM) focuses on monetary
        policy, household and corporate finance and macro-economic dynamics. It has made new
        appointments at all levels including Graziano, Jensen, Mukherjee, Ruggieri, Thwaites,
        Vigier, Vizcaino, Zu. The Centre has a regular seminar series with speakers invited from
        Duke, Stanford, Princeton, MIT, LSE, UCL, NYU, Rochester, Federal Reserve, Oxford, and
        a new Macro Working Group for discussion of papers written by CFCM members. CFCM
        has received approximately £4m of grants from UKRI, Research England and ESCoE; it
        draws on data resources from CBI and UK finance. and has established an international
        reputation for research into survey data.

The School has also launched a number of new research initiatives, which complement the
School’s existing strengths

       A new research programme in Gender Economics seeks to understand the cause and
        consequence of gender inequality. The research programme is jointly led by new professors
        Rickne and Sonderegger and was launched by the 2019 Special Lectures on Gender
        Inequality, delivered by Rickne, covering topics including Gender quotas, couple formation
        and women’s careers, and sexual harassment and gender inequality in the labour market. In
        2020, the School hosted the new Annual Nottingham Workshop on the Economics of

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Gender norms featuring keynote speeches by Sonja Vogt (Bern) and Andreas Kotsadam
           (Frisch Institute). A major project within this research initiative now underway at Nottingham
           focuses on difference in gendered language in reference letters, in a unique collaboration
           with the EconJobMarket job platform, which provides reference letters for the European Job
           Market.
          Established in 2016, the Decision Maker Panel (DMP) https://decisionmakerpanel.co.uk/ is
           a flagship initiative between the University of Nottingham, Stanford University and the Bank
           of England to better understand uncertainties facing British business before, during, and
           after the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union.
                o The DMP has trained over 120 analysts to recruit panel members to a survey of UK
                    business leaders. The DMP has seen extensive research investment by the ESRC
                    and Stanford University in addition to core investment from the University.
                o In addition to creating significant new assets for the measurement of uncertainty in
                    the UK around Brexit, the DMP undertakes fundamental research into other sources
                    of uncertainty. A UKRI funded project £804,000 links data collected on Covid-19
                    from Decision Making Panel, Management Expectations Survey and the ONS
                    Business Impact of Covid-19 survey to address the Economic Impact of Covid-19.
                o A further £1.1m in support from the ESRC has been awarded for a collaboration
                    between ONS, ESCoE, QMUL, Stanford and LSE by creating the UK Management
                    and Expectations Survey (MES). This improves the understanding of the causes and
                    consequences of the variation in management practices across UK businesses for
                    improving productivity.
          A programme of research on Covid-19
           (https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/economics/research/covid-19-research.aspx), showcasing
           the UKRI and British Academy funded activity and contributing to the national effort,
           including contributions to the Economics Observatory, CEPR and the Conversation in
           addition to new original research papers on the topic.

    d) Research Strategy 2014-2020

The School has delivered significant progress against the strategic objectives outlined in the REF
2014 Environment Submission:

    i)        Expansion of CeDEx lab facilities: CeDEx conducts experiments in two dedicated lab
              facilities at University of Nottingham. During the REF period, the School has undertaken
              major infrastructure investments in the CeDEx lab capacity and business model
              (see Section 3b below)

    ii)       Increasing the number of School-funded postdoctoral fellowships: The School
              recognises that completing PhD students need entry-points to academia suitable to their
              career and job market preparation. Not all students graduating from PhD programmes
              are ready to enter the job market for assistant professorships. Over the REF period, the
              School has expanded both traditional postdoctoral positions (offering at least two
              positions each year), but has also expanded its offer of knowledge exchange positions
              (including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and ESRC NPIF fellowships, and teaching
              and research fellowships. Teaching and research fellows are required to undertake the
              same teaching loads as Assistant Professors, ensuring that this group of ECRs have
              time and opportunity to develop their research portfolio.

    iii)      Upgrading the School’s job market preparation: The School has launched into vigorous
              engagement with the European and North American economics job markets. Since
              2016, the School has become a fully active participant in both placing students on, and
              recruiting students from, the European and North American job markets. This has


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             served to increase the quality of both hires and placements and upscale Nottingham’s
             contribution to the international job market. As a sign of ongoing commitment to the
             annual job market, Nottingham will host the next European Job Market in 2021 (now
             scheduled for December 2021, previously postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic).

    iv)      Increasing the number of School-funded PhD studentships: the school has expanded
             and intensified its PhD training programme. The adoption of an MRes/PhD model has
             increased the intensity and quality of the PhD training, which is essential if students
             are to make meaningful contributions to knowledge and become competitive on the
             international job market for junior faculty.
             a. The new programme structure is an integrated one-year Masters in Research, from
                 which students progress to the PhD in Economics. It includes one year of courses
                 covering the tools, techniques and literature necessary for them to write a PhD
                 dissertation at the forefront of the economics discipline; four years (maximum) of
                 research under the guidance of faculty; support and resources to enable students to
                 participate in the scientific community and achieve a top job market placement.

             b. The school offers a minimum of seven fully-funded four-year studentships each year,
                in addition to studentships obtained via the ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership and
                other sources of external funding.

             c. During the MRes year, students complete advanced-level taught modules in order to
                acquire the necessary skills and knowledge for research in economics. These are
                examined and students must pass to progress to our four-year PhD programme.
                Core modules taught in the first term are: Micro, Macro and Econometrics. In the
                second term, students can choose from advanced modules in: Macro, Micro Theory,
                Applied Econometrics, Behavioural Economics and Computational Economics.
                Masterclasses from visiting academic experts provide additional opportunities for
                training (for example, Petr Sedlacek, Oxford, and Pontus Rendahl, Cambridge, on
                Computational Macro; Andres Rodriguez-Clare, Berkeley, on Trade, Industrial Policy
                and Welfare).

    v)       Diversification of existing research strengths: the new research initiatives described
             above serve as examples of the school diversifying into new emerging areas of Gender
             Economics and Big Data Analytics paired with Data Science. The latter is an expanding
             element in the School’s research portfolio. The growth of the NIBS network has also
             expanded transdisciplinary research within the School.

Future Research Strategy

As the School looks forward into the next decade and consolidates the achievements of the REF
period, the Senior Management Group has identified the following key areas for future investment

         Increase investment in Economic Data Science and Data Driven Discovery. This is an
          area of growth within Economics, and one in which the School is innovating through links
          with the Bank of England, the Office for National Statistics and private sector companies
          such as Experian and Fable underpin this venture. In 2021/22 the School will launch an
          initiative in Data Driven Discovery to visualise data and offer economic analysis for policy
          makers; and a postgraduate programme in Economic Data Science (MSc). This is an area
          for future strategic investment over the next REF period.
         The School will continue to increase its diversity, expanding from but not limited to the
          success in increasing gender diversity, to seek increased diversity in the full range of
          characteristic and cultures, which will further generate an inclusive and positive environment
          for students, colleagues and the wide community.
         Investment in career progression and placement. The School will build on its engagement

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       with early career progression through the PhD programme and ECR development, further
       supporting the activities of the European and US job markets.


Section 2: People

    a) Diversity

Economics is an internationally diverse discipline and the School comprises a diverse set of
researchers by nationality, cultural and social background, and racial characteristics. Within the
submission, staff represent 18 different nationalities spanning six continents. This internationality
within the School generates a diverse social and cultural research environment, and research and
teaching experience for PhD students, postgraduates and undergraduates.

The School recognised that having zero female professors employed in the school at the point of
submission to REF 2014 was a serious issue that needed to be addressed. In light of this, the
School has worked tirelessly to reform its environment to become increasingly conducive to female
progression. The school has reformed its research framework, outlined in the School’s Athena
SWAN submission. As a result of this work to improve female progression, the School now has five
female professors. This increase in the representation of women within the professoriate has been
achieved by a combination of successes in internal university promotion processes (Barr, Montero
and Sonderegger) together with external hiring (Rickne, Testa). The recruitment and retention of
female staff at all levels of seniority remains a priority area for the School.

In addition to significant success at professor level, the School has also substantially increased its
offers to female academics on the assistant professor job market. Since the School began fully
engaging with the assistant professor market in 2016, in each year it has monitored the share of
females within the pool of applicants. As a result, it has ensured that: i) the shortlist of candidates
for interviews at the European and North American job market events has always achieved a share
of females higher than the share of females in the pool of applicants; ii) this target has also been
achieved in the share of fly outs to interview at Nottingham; iii) this target has also been achieved in
the composition of offers. Moreover, the School has prioritised offers to female applicants through
positive action wherever possible. Accordingly, the School has increased its hiring of female
assistant professors.

Despite these successes, in its Athena SWAN Bronze Award submission the School recognises the
challenges, at both a discipline level and at the School level, of a lack of gender diversity. In light of
this, in January 2015 the School formed an Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team (SAT), which
also serves as the School’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee. The SAT/EDI team
has 9 members comprising 6 female and 3 male.

Here we focus on elements of the action plan relating to research, and the milestone achievements
to date:

Achievements to date include:
     Hosting an academic conference on gender issues in Economics.
     Seeking-out and inviting academic speakers for public lectures and/or seminars who work
       on gender issues within the discipline.
     Requiring centre directors to consider gender balance in seminar series.
     Requiring research directors to consider gender balance in public lectures.
     Introduction of regular postgraduate research to monitor effectiveness of the action plan
       and, if required, to investigate reasons for any apparent ineffectiveness.
     Review of the School’s postgraduate research brochure with the aim of making it more

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        appealing to potential female applicants by highlighting diversity of research interests in the
        School and increasing the visibility of females in the discipline.
       Improving the wording of job vacancy adverts ensuring that at least one female is named
        and available for enquiries on each advert, and systematically reviewing the wording of
        shortlist offering 1st and 2nd interview.
       Unconscious bias training events in School throughout the year, with all staff required to
        complete the training.

Ongoing and future actions include:
    Requiring conference organisers to consider gender balance in invited/accepted
      participants.
    Induction for all new staff to include introduction to Athena SWAN.
    Increase encouragement of female members of staff to apply for promotion earlier via the
      new annual review process.

    b) People Development

People development is at the heart of the School’s mission, from undergraduate programmes
through to senior leadership. Over the REF period the School has invested both in its job market
activities (as described in Section 1) while also improving career development culture and
opportunities. The School has embraced the expectations and responsibilities of managers and
staff in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, of which the University
is a signatory.

Investing in Junior Faculty

The School has prioritised hiring junior faculty, appointing 12 assistant professors over the past
three years, with more hiring at the junior level planned for future rounds. With an increasing in
hiring at the junior level occurring simultaneously with renewed investment in job market activity, in
recent years the School has raised the quality of its hires at Assistant Professor level. The School
increasingly hires candidates who have received extensive PhD training at top US and European
departments. Recent hires include Spencer (Wisconsin-Madison), Martinez (University of
Californa, San Diego), Tortarolo (University of California, Berkeley), Poyker (University of
California, Los Angeles), Tian (University of California, Los Angeles), Graziano (Maryland),
Vizcaino (Washington St Louis), Hinnosaar (Northwestern), Rueda (SciencesPo) and Ruggieri
(BGS). We have also appointed several postdoctoral students supported by research grants.

Senior Strategic Appointments

The School has undertaken a number of strategic senior appointments to part-time positions.
The appointment of Rodriguez-Clare brings a world-leading scholar providing strategic leadership
to the GEP Research Centre. Rodríguez-Clare is a Professor of Economics at the University of
California, Berkeley, Director of the Trade Research Programme at the International Growth Centre,
and a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. He is the Editor of the
Journal of International Economics and Associate Editor at American Economic Review: Insights.
Rodríguez-Clare brings extensive knowledge and experience in the field of international trade and
is contributing to the School’s activity through regular conference participation, PhD supervision and
as a member of GEP’s strategic advisory board. He served as organiser of the GEP Summer
Workshop on Trade, Innovation and Multinationals, which took place in Nottingham in June 2019.
Beginning in the 2020/21 academic year, Rodriguez-Clare organises a weekly reading group which
considers job market papers in International Trade, allowing Nottingham and Berkeley academics
and students the opportunity to discuss their job market papers in an online seminar format and
then give feedback to the author.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The appointment of Rickne brings one of the world’s pre-eminent scholars in Gender Economics to
Nottingham. Rickne is Professor of Economics at the Swedish Institute for Social Research,
Stockholm University, Wallenberg Academy Fellow and research affiliate at CEPR and the
Stockholm China Economic Research Center. She brings unparalleled leadership to the School’s
research initiative in Interdisciplinary Gender Economics; she co-organised the School’s first
Workshop on the Economics of Gender Norms, which took place in 2020.

The appointment of Cruces brings a leading economist in the field of development economics and
public policy. Cruces is a research fellow at J-PAL and IZA and besides her academic impact, he
has a outstanding experience in the policy arena, including positions at the UK's Department for Work
and Pensions, the Development Studies Division of the UN's Economic Commission for Latin America and
the Caribbean and a term as Under Secretary for Development at Argentina's Ministry of the Treasury.

The appointments of Vigier, Hinnosaar and Jensen further add to the School’s strengths in
economic theory in its existing research centres, and the School has ambition to develop a theory
group over coming years.

Cruces is former Under Secretary for Development, and main Adviser of the Ministry of the
Treasury in Argentina, with extensive experience of working with the World Bank and other
international organisations. He has been Adviser of the Uruguayan Government and has extensive
experience as a consultant for the major international organisations, e.g. the World Bank and Inter-
American Development Bank. He is a leading figure in development economics and adds strength
in that area of the School.

Internal Career Development

The School’s success in external recruitment has not come at a cost of internal promotion, but
instead complements internal promotion successes. Internal promotion successes arise due to a
combination of early-stage mentoring (each ECR in the School is mentored by a senior
professor), reduced teaching loads for ECRs and internal training and support; this includes an
Impact Leaders Training Programme, ECR grant-writing training programme and retreat and the
School’s ‘Brown Bag’ seminar. The latter prioritises giving ECRs the opportunity to present and
receive feedback on work in progress.

The School’s strategy for career development has continued to reap benefits in achieving a high
rate of internal promotions. Promotions to Associate Professor during the period include Tufano
and Yu. Promotions to Professor include Albornoz (current Head of School), Barr (now also
Deputy Head of School), Bougheas, Gathergood, Impullitti, Montero, Nosenzo and
Sonderegger.

    c) Equitable Career Development

In addition to significant action to improve diversity (see Section a above), the School has
undertaken a variety of actions to improve equity in opportunity for career development across all
career stages. The School supports staff development and promotes equality of opportunity
among staff. The School operates a workload model, which aims to equalise teaching,
administrative and managerial duties fairly among staff and which creates equal opportunity for
development of research projects and professional development.

New appointees including Early Career Researchers appointed internally are given reduced
teaching loads (50% for year 1, 75% for year 2) and teaching loads are typically low with, on
average, staff teaching 110 hours per year inclusive of all activities including lecturing, seminars,
dissertation supervision and supervision of research students. Teaching loads allow staff to teach in

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
areas of expertise, especially at advanced undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Staff taking
leave due to, for example, parenting leave or illness continue to accrue sabbatical entitlement and
workload credits during the leave.

The research activity of each member of staff within the School is reviewed on an annual basis
through a process of Personal Development and Performance Review. In each case, an
individual’s Activity Reviewer is a more senior staff member (for Assistant Professors and Associate
Professors a Professor, for Professors the Head of School or Deputy Heads of School and for the
Head of School the Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor). Activity reviewers appraise the research output,
research activity and research development of reviewed staff and provide encouragement and
suggestion as to how research and research activity can be enhanced.

The School further supports staff development through a variety of research support initiatives to
which all staff have equal entitlement. These are managed by the School’s Research Committee
and Director of Research (Gaechter) reporting to the Head of School and Staff Meetings, and
include:

    i)     Research Sabbaticals: The School has a one Semester in six eligibility, with the option
           to augment this with additional externally funded leave, and/or through the support of
           one of the Research Centres (pro rata for PT staff). Those granted sabbaticals may bid
           for financial support to assist with planned activities during their leave, with sabbatical
           funding approved in all cases during the REF period. The School encourages those on
           leave, and younger staff in particular, to visit other institutions (especially those with
           established reputations in the relevant research field).

    ii)    Funding for Conference Participation: Bids for conference funding are funded with
           preference given to those presenting at higher calibre international conferences, and to
           younger members of staff seeking to gain experience and develop their networks of
           research interactions.

    iii)   Senior Academic Visitors Programme: The visitor will normally deliver a seminar, or
           participate in a workshop organised to coincide with the visit, but the key rationale for the
           programme is to provide an opportunity for informal networking between School
           researchers and visitors. During the REF period, the School has hosted 34 senior
           academics, including multiple visitors from North American institutions including
           CalTech, Harvard, MIT, Yale, Princeton, Chicago and Northwestern with, for example,
           current or former editors of American Economic Review and Econometrica among their
           number.

    iv)    Personal Research Accounts: Each member of staff is entitled to a Personal Research
           Account (PRA) to fund research-related activities other than those financed by the
           School’s Research budget. In addition to periodic contributions from the School, a
           proportion of the overheads from research grants won by staff are paid into PRAs to
           provide incentives for research income generation and fund further research-related
           activity.

Section 3: Income, Infrastructure and facilities

    a) Income

Throughout the REF period, the School has continued to receive substantial income from its major
research investments and has also developed new funding streams. At the School level research
income generation is supported by the School Research Committee and the School Research


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Officer; at the Faculty level income is supported by the Centre for Advanced Studies. The School
views the application for, and receipt of, research income as an essential component in the
research production function. At the same time, the School takes a strategic approach to research
funding applications, recognising opportunities in the intersection of the School’s research strengths
and the thematic priorities of funders.

Income generation is supported by a high-quality Research Development organisation
infrastructure. The Faculty of Social Science Research and Knowledge Exchange team includes
five specialist Research Development Managers who hold portfolios of research development
activity defined by topic and funder specialisms. The School hosts two Senior Research Officers
who contribute to bid development, collaboration agreements and contracting. Research grant
strategy is overseen by the School’s Director of Research (Gaechter), and is supported by
colleagues on the Research Committee. Expertise is strengthened by experience in past or present
service on ESRC Grant Assessment Panels (Albornoz, Mizen).

Income generation is further supported through collaboration with external HEIs and research
partners. Grants won over the period have involved external collaborations with the Bank of
England, Financial Conduct Authority, Financial Services Providers (including Lloyds Banking
Group, Barclays Stockbroking and Argus Analytics). Grant applications also draw upon shared
resources.

This central team within the faculty raises awareness of research funding opportunities and
provides early-stage advice. The School then operates an internal peer-review system for initial
grant ideas, which aims to sift potential grant applications at the early stage and provide feedback
on the grant proposal from inception. Further peer-review is undertaken at the School level prior to
peer-review at the Faculty level prior to submission.

Over the REF period the School has achieved a research income spend among staff returned to
the Economics and Econometrics unit of assessment of over £5.1m, of which more than 50% has
been raised from non-UKRI sources. This diversification of income streams improves sustainability
by reducing reliance on UKRI (in particular ESRC) and offers a degree of insurance in a changing
and uncertain research funding environment. The School also achieves a high degree of
diversification in its staff base involved in raising research income. During the REF period, awards
have been made to 24 individuals within the unit, more than two-thirds of the number of individuals
returned by the unit. This further helps to improve the sustainability of research income within the
School.

Highlights within the School’s portfolio of research grants held during the period, the majority of
which outlast the REF 2021 submission date include:
     ESRC Large Grant (£2.3m) to support the ongoing work of the Network for Integrated
        Behavioural Science, following-on from an ESRC Centre Grant (£3.5m). The NIBS
        research programme, drawing on Economics and Psychology and at the cutting edge of
        interdisciplinary Behavioural Science, aims to advance understanding of consumer
        behaviour and contribute to high impact applications through collaboration with a range of
        non- academic partner organisations.
     European Research Council Advanced Investigator Grant (£1.9m) ‘Putting Strong
        Reciprocity into Context: The Role of Incentives, Social Norms, and Culture for Voluntary
        Cooperation’, awarded to Gaechter.
     Volkswagen Stiftung Grant (£800k) ‘The Rise of Populist Parties in Europe: The Dark
        Side of Globalisation and Technological Change?’, awarded to Facchini, Testa and
        external collaborators.
     ENEL Foundation Research Grant (£900k) ‘Value Added in Motion: The Future
        Geography of Production, Migration and Energy’, awarded to Facchini and external

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        collaborators.
       Global Integrity Anti-Corruption Evidence Programme (£350k) ‘International Anti-
        Corruption Laws and Local Social Norms: Interactions and Implications for Policy’, awarded
        to Barr and collaborators.
       UKRI ESRC Standard Grants on the topics of:
            o ‘Measuring the Impact of Brexit on UK Investment, Productivity, Sales and
               Employment’, awarded to Mizen (£836k)
            o ‘Understanding and Explaining Management Practices to Promote Higher
               Productivity in UK Businesses’, awarded to Mizen and other Investigators at the
               National Institute for Social-Economic Research (£1.1m)
            o ‘Accumulating to Choose, but Accumulating Ahat? Drift Diffusion Modelling of
               Economic Preference’, awarded to Starmer (£650k)
            o ‘Migration and The Reshaping of Consumption Patterns’, awarded to Facchini and
               external collaborators (£490k)
            o Mizen UKRI Covid-19 award to support research into the business impact of Covid-
               19 (£804k)
            o Starmer UKRI Covid-19 award for the CIVIC Project: 'Predicting Covid-19 Impact
               on Vulnerable Individuals and Communities Via Health, Deprivation and Loyalty-
               Card Data (£292k)

The development of the impact cases study portfolio has also been supported by awards from the
ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (on which see Section 1e above for further details).

    b) Physical Infrastructure and Facilities

The School is housed in a central location on University Park Campus, offering excellent access to
campus facilities and teaching and research locations. The School has a number of infrastructure
advantages, including:

       Signature location in the Sir Clive Granger Building, in honour of the former member of
        staff within the School winner of the 2003 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences.
       Extensive staff office facilities, offering individual staff offices to all staff members
        including postdoctoral research fellows and teaching fellows.
       The School benefits from housing all staff in a single building, creating a connected and
        convivial setting for collaborative research.

The major infrastructure investment over the period has been the expansion of the School’s CeDEx
lab size and the upgrade of technology.
       a.      CeDEx at Nottingham has the use of two purpose built, dedicated decision research
       labs - one in the School of Economics on University Park Campus and one in the
       Nottingham University Business School (NUBS) on Jubilee Campus. In combination, this
       offers 72 computer terminals for use by subjects (32 in Economics and 40 in NUBS)
       operating on Windows Systems and installed with standard software, ready to run
       experiments in Qualtrics, Lioness, different versions of zTree or any other software required.
       This capacity increased from approximately 40 terminals available at the time of submission
       to REF 2014. As well as the expansion of physical infrastructure, there has been a very
       substantial increase in the use of online platforms for data gathering (together with
       development of programming technologies and other infrastructure to support it – e.g. most
       recently development of electronic online subject payments).
       b.      These facilities provide opportunity for income generation in addition through the
       hiring-out of the lab facility. The facility is used by researchers from other HEIs on a
       chargeable basis, as well as external consultancies and the third sector. Moreover, CeDEx
       also offers a database of approximately 3,000 volunteer subjects willing to be invited to

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        experiments. CeDEx operates to strict experimental protocols, including of course obtaining
        ethical approval prior to any experiment.
        c.      To support the continued expansion of the CeDEx lab portfolio, Economics and
        NUBS employ a full-time Lab Manager who is also available to offer expert advice and
        assistance to those running (or thinking of running) experiments. This can include
        programming experiments, guidance on minimum subject payments and help with ethical
        approvals and protocols for research with human subjects and use of data.
        d.      The Decision Maker Panel has a dedicated lab with 22 workstations to support staff
        and a full-time Manager who recruit and retain senior executives from UK firms for the
        Decision Maker Panel online monthly survey.

    c) Impact Strategy 2014 - 2020

        Impact strategy has focused on prioritising and resourcing impact-focused research within
        the School’s research portfolio. Since 2014, research impact achievements have been
        recognised in the School’s promotion and pay award structure at all levels, incentivising staff
        to prioritise research impact activity alongside other research activities. A major strategic
        investment in research impact at Nottingham is the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account
        (ESRC IAA). Running since 2014, the ESRC IAA aims to build knowledge exchange
        activities and impact through social science. The ESRC IAA has been awarded a further
        £1.3 million in follow-on funding, and a further £100,000 of NPIF funding.

        The ESRC IAA operates three key programs from which the School has benefited
       The Impact Leaders Programme to support and develop academics in strategic impact
        leadership roles. During the REF period academics from within the School of Economics
        have undertaken the extensive programme of over 80 hours of training and investment of
        £5k per researcher per year in new research impact initiatives. All Impact Case Study
        authors from the School have undertaken the programme.
       Mode A Fund: enabling grants to support partnership development and network
        development for KE. Grants available of up to £2.5K on an open call basis.
       Mode B Fund: for pilot projects or early project development to enable, for example, proof-
        of-concept work with an external partner. Grants available of up to £10K on an open call
        basis.
       In addition, the ESRC IAA operates an Interdisciplinary Knowledge Exchange Fund, which
        supports small grants on an open call of up to £10k to support multidisciplinary collaborative
        projects and an Impact and Knowledge Exchange Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme,
        facilitating 6-month placements of postdocs at Nottingham.
       For example, the IAA initially supported the DMP as a pilot project with £60k of Mode B and
        Strategic funding enabling us to secure £3.4m of ESRC and other funding. This is a good
        example of how IAA provided a seed corn fund to support the growth of major research
        projects.

        All case studies submitted by the School have received substantial investment from the
        ESRC IAA.
       Albornoz received funding to gather research on the impact of pedagogical content
        knowledge and ongoing mentoring on student learning in science in Latin American schools.
        Funding also facilitated the development of stakeholder relationships to work with other
        Latin American schools to expand research and deliver higher and longer-term impact.
       Gathergood received funding for a 6-month research assistant position to undertake
        background research on consumer credit policy in the United Kingdom and produce outputs
        translating academic research into policy briefings and consultation submission.
       Mizen received multiple funding injections to support the work on DMP and broader projects
        on productivity. A first funding injection under the title ‘Evaluating the Impact of Brexit: A

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        New Survey, Research and Public Data’ supported the creation and incubation of the DMP.
        A second injection under the title ‘Investigating the Impact of the EU Referendum Result on
        Economic Uncertainty and Firm Decision Making through A Bespoke Survey’ supported the
        expansion of the DMP and was critical for receiving matched funding by the Bank of
        England.

        ESRC IAA funding is also contributing to the School’s ongoing strategy to develop a future
        portfolio of Impact Case Studies.
       Barr received funding to generate new insights into the role of individual values and social
        norms in financial decision-making in sub-Saharan Africa. These insights will inform
        Financial Sector Deepening’s (and others’) practices and intervention design. 1 project near
        completion, 3 more at the design stage.
       Mizen received funding for the Decision Maker Panel pilot project. This has had substantial
        additional grant income from ESRC and other sources and has measured uncertainty
        around Brexit and Covid-19. In relation to Brexit, the results have been used extensively by
        the Bank of England's Policy Committees including in speeches, official publications and
        their assessment of the Withdrawal Agreement presented to Parliament (Nov 2018) and
        reported in The Financial Times, The Wall Street Journal, Fortune, The Sunday Times, The
        Times, The Independent, The Telegraph, The Guardian, The Economist and Harvard
        Business Review. In relation to Covid-19, the data have been fed to the Policy Committees
        of the Bank of England, Government Departments such as HM Treasury, BEIS, the Home
        Office, the Department for Transport, and to COBRA and 10 Downing St. They were used in
        an international meeting of central bank governors at Jackson Hole to illustrate the
        uncertainty facing UK and US businesses.
       Starmer received funding for two projects spanning Behavioural Science and Development
        Economics. A first project in collaboration with manufacturing firms in the midlands,
        ‘Boosting Productivity through Reciprocity and Well-Being in A Firm’, draws upon
        behavioural science research that shows that the majority of people are motivated to
        behave reciprocally towards others. A second project, ‘Measuring Social Integration and
        Community Cohesion in Rural Pakistan’, focuses on the fact that, due to geographical
        location and socioeconomic conditions, youth populations in Northern Pakistan are at
        special risk of radicalisation. This project comprises a field study that empirically and
        quantitatively monitors changes in youth integration and social cohesion around the first,
        pilot community centre in Pakistan.
       Gathergood regularly engages with the consumer finance industry, regulators and the third
        sector. During the REF period, his engagements have included the NEST Insight Annual
        Conference 2019 ‘The Lived Experience of Saving’, The UK Finance Data Ethics
        Conference 2019 ‘Data Ethics and Retail Banking’ and the UK Finance Later Life Lending
        Conference 2019 ‘Behavioural Economics of Housing and Ageing’. Gathergood was
        shortlisted (final 3) for the 2016 ESRC Prize for Outstanding Impact on Public Policy for his
        work on the regulation of payday lending. His research with the Financial Conduct Authority
        led to a price cap for payday loans – protecting more than four million payday loan
        customers from extortionate interest fees.

        Selection of Impact Case Studies

        The School began the REF period with a selection of seven potential Impact Case Studies,
        all of which were developed and supported during the early part of the REF period. Initial
        outline case studies were evaluated by Faculty panels, involving reviewers from other
        disciplines within the Faculty of Social Science. The Faculty conducted ongoing periodic
        reviews during the REF period to progress the portfolio of case studies.

        Selection of case studies was made on the basis of reviewer scores from the Faculty

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       panels. This provided a high degree of objectivity in the selection process, minimising
       potential bias and conflict of interest, which may have arisen under an internally governed
       process.

       Open Research, Research Ethics and Integrity

       Establishing the School’s Research Ethics Committee (REC). At the University level,
       governance requires all staff and students who are engaged in research to maintain the
       highest standards of integrity in the conduct of research. The University's principles for
       research ethics are integrated into the Code of Research Conduct and Research Ethics. In
       addition, the School has established an internal REC for the purpose of further bolstering
       research ethics and integrity oversight.

       School protocols ensure that research must undergo ethical review and receive approval
       before work can begin where research involves the participation of human subjects, their
       data and/or their tissue. School protocols go beyond existing ESRC guidelines.


       Providing increased training and awareness of Research Integrity.

       In accordance with University policy, since 2018, the University Research Ethics Committee
       requires that all new doctoral students receive training in Research Integrity. The
       Researcher Academy offers training to support Schools and Researchers in meeting this
       requirement. All staff within the School are also required to undertake research integrity
       training via an online course, which is designed to strengthen researchers’ awareness of
       their own responsibilities and accountability when conducting research, and provides
       guidance on what to do should things go wrong.

       Research from the School of Economics has contributed to encouraging a culture of
       reproducibility. Tufano, together with co-authors, co-edited an Economic Journal Features
       Special Issue on ‘The Research Reproducibility Crisis and Economics of Science’.
       Researchers from the School have also set examples for the discipline in publishing
       replications of their own work in new data. For example, Gathergood published a companion
       paper to his main paper 'How Do Individuals Repay Their Debt? The Balance Matching
       Heuristic’ published in the American Economic Review that replicated the results from that
       paper in a sister dataset. The replication study was published as ‘How Do Americans Repay
       Their Debt? The Balance Matching Heuristic’, published in Economics Bulletin.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The School’s contribution to Economics as a discipline takes a variety of forms beyond the
authorship of original research published in internationally renowned journals in Economics,
Finance and Behavioural Science. The School contributes to research development in the discipline
more generally through staff delivering lectures and seminars externally and participating in
conferences and workshops, plus by the School hosting regular seminars, workshops and
conferences, by its staff undertaking editorial and advisory service at academic journals, on
scientific committees and on steering groups. Staff regularly undertake research visits at other
institutions, plus actively contribute to external PhD programmes by providing short-courses or
through master classes and examining.

In addition, the School supports research impact activities by a number of additional means and
resourcing initiatives. Researchers are supported by a full-time dedicated Research Impact Officer

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
who provides all-round support in the creation of research impact networks, facilitation of interaction
and meetings, evidence collection and other activities. The School Research Committee also funds
the use of research assistants for activities related to the generation of impact, in addition to the
funding made available via the ESRC IAA.

Research Network Building

GEP Research Network

GEP continues to host one of the most active workshop and conference programmes in
international trade within Europe, drawing on a network of internal and external fellows and
collaborating with a broad range of institutions and professional bodies.

During the REF period, GEP hosted the following workshops and conferences, which include
collaboration with over 15 HEIs and research groups from across the world:

   Firm and Technology Dynamics: A Global Perspective (Jun 2014)
   China’s Growth in the Global Economy (Nov 2014)
   Firm Heterogeneity: Implications for Aggregate Outcomes (Jan 2015)
   Current Issues in International Economics and Open-Economy Macroeconomics (Feb 2015)
   Festschrift Conference for Professor Sir David Greenaway (Jun 2015)
   Firm and Technology Dynamics: A Global Perspective (Nov 2015)
   China and the Global Economy (Nov 2015)
   Asian Economic Integration and Development (Feb 2016)
   Dynamics, Economic Growth and International Trade (DEGIT) (Sept 2016)
   China and the Deglobalising World Economy (Nov 2016)
   Economic and Financial Integration in Asia and Beyond (Feb 2017)
   Preferential Trade Agreements - Lessons for Post-Brexit Britain (Mar 2017)
   Imports and Global Value Chains Festschrift conference for Professor Chris Milner (Jun 2017)
   Conference in Honour of Professor Sir David Greenaway: Public Policy (Sept 2017)
   Migration and the Reshaping of Consumption Patterns: Economics and Politics (Sept 2017)
   Trade Integration in Historical Perspective (Sept 2018)
   VW Foundation Workshop (Apr 2019)
   International Trade Workshop (Jun 2019)
   InsTED Institutions Trade and Economic Development Conference (Sept 2019)
   1st International Workshop (May 2020)
   The Dynamics of Trade Workshop (Jun 2020)

In addition, GEP also continues to host an annual postgraduate conference, which in 2021 will be in
its 20th year. In June 2015 GEP also hosted a Festschrift Conference for Professor Sir David
Greenaway, Founding Director of GEP. GEP hosts six Lectures Series, Nottingham Globalisation
Lecture, The World Economy Annual Lecture, The World Economy Annual Asia Lectures, The
World Economy China Lecture, Nottingham Lectures in International Economics and the Boustead
Globalisation Lecture.

GEP engages diverse, global audiences through its lecture series presented at all three campuses
of the University – in China, Malaysia and the UK. Highlights include:

Nottingham Globalisation Lectures:
 Charles Clarke, Former Home Secretary on "How best can we meet the international economic
   and security challenges of our time?" (Oct 2014)
 David Smith, Economics Editor, The Sunday Times - "After the crisis: How Britain's adjusted
   and how it has not" (Dec 2014)

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Martin Wolf, Associate Editor and Chief Economics Commentator, The Financial Times - "The
    Shifts and The Shocks" (Feb 2015)
   Sir Peter Kendall, Chairman, Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board (AHDB)- "British
    Agriculture: Sunrise Industry" (Mar 2015)
   Michael Jacobs, Senior Adviser on International Climate Change Policy at l'Institut du
    Développement Durable et des Relations Internationales (IDDRI), Paris on "Crunchtime in
    Paris: the political economy of a new climate change agreement" (Oct 2015)
   Martin Wolf, Associate Editor and Chief Economics Commentator, The Financial Times on The
    challenges of China's transition to a "new normal" (Feb 2016)
   David Norgrove, Chair, Low Pay Commission on "The past and future of the minimum wage"
    (Jan 2017)
   Martin Wolf, Associate Editor and Chief Economics Commentator, The Financial Times on
    "The rise of economic populism" (Feb 2017)
   Anna Soubry, MP for Browtowe on " Brexit: where are we now?" (Oct 2018)
   Martin Wolf, Associate Editor and Chief Economics Commentator, The Financial
    Times on " The future of US-China relations" (Mar 2019)
   Martin Wolf, Associate Editor and Chief Economics Commentator, The Financial
    Times on "The challenge of reaching global net zero by 2050" (Mar 2020)

The World Economy Annual Lecture:
 Philippe Aghion, Robert C. Waggoner Professor of Economics, Harvard University 'What Do We
   Learn from Schumpeterian Growth Theory?' (Jun 2014)
 Jeremy Greenwood, University of Pennsylvania 'Why doesn't technology flow from rich to poor
   countries?' (Jun 2015)
 Gene Grossman, Princeton University 'Balanced neoclassical growth' (Sept 2016)
 Richard Baldwin, Professor of International Economics, Graduate Institute of International
   Studies, Geneva 'Misthinking of anti-globalisation' (Jun 2017)
 Stephen Redding, Princeton University. 'The making of the modern metropolis: evidence from
   London' (Sept 2018)
 Giovanni Maggi, Yale University. 'Are trade agreements good for you?' (Sept 2019)

The World Economy Annual Asia Lectures:
 Professor Euston Quah, Professor of Economics, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
   'Pursuing Economic Growth in Asia: The Environmental Challenge' (Feb 2014)
 Professor Hans Genberg, South East Asian Central Banks (SEACEN) Research and Training
   Centre, "Implementing Macro-prudential Policies: Challenges, Pitfalls and Way Forward" (Feb
   2015)
 Norman Loayza, Lead Economist, Development Economics Group, The World Bank,
   "Informality and the Process of Economic Growth" (Feb 2016)
 Innwon Park, Korea University "Best Practices for Regional Trade Agreements: An Application
   for the Asia-Pacific Region" (Feb 2017)

The World Economy China Lecture:
 Professor Peter Neary, Professor of Economics, University of Oxford 'Superstar Firms in the
   Global Economy' (Nov 2014)
 Professor Zheng (Michael) Song, Professor of Economics, Chinese University of Hong
   Kong 'Institutional Foundation of China's Growth' (Nov 2015)
 Professor Mathias Thoenig, HEC Losanne, 'Natural Resources and Civil Conflicts' (Nov 2016)
 Professor Junsen Zhang, Chinese University of Hong Kong, 'Does foreign investment
   liberalization enhance women's economic independence? Macro evidence from urban China'
   (Nov 2018)
 Professor Justin Yifu Lin, Peking University 'The Rise of China and the Belt and Road initiative'
   (Nov 2019)


                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Nottingham Lectures in International Economics:
 Professor Christian Dustmann, University College London: Three lectures on
   'Immigration' (2014)
 Professor Giancarlo Corsetti, University of Cambridge: Three lectures on 'International
   dimensions of monetary policy' (2015)
 Professor Thierry Mayer, Sciences-Po: Three lectures on 'Gravity and the welfare gains from
   trade' (2016)
 Professor Paola Conconi, Université Libre de Bruxelles: Three lectures on 'The organisation
   of firms in a global economy' (2017)
 Professor Thierry Verdier, Paris School of Economics: Three lectures on 'Globalisation,
   institutions and cultural evolution' (2018)]
 Professor Andrés Rodriguez-Clare, University of California at Berkeley: Three lectures
   on 'Welfare effects of international trade and industrial policy' (2019)

Boustead Globalisation Lecture:
 Professor Christine Ennew, Provost and Pro-Vice-Chancellor, University of Nottingham
   Malaysia Campus, 'The Future of International Education' (Feb 2015)
 Mansor Ibrahim, Dean, Graduate School of Studies, INCEIF (The Global University of Islamic
   Finance), 'Islamic Finance and Resilience of the Financial System' (Feb 2016)
 Cassey Lee, Yusof Ishak Institute (ISEAS), Singapore, 'SMEs and ASEAN Economic
   Integration' (Feb 2017)

NIBS Research Network

As an ESRC-funded research Network, NIBS is inter-institution and transdisciplinary by design.
Collaboration between participating institutions and partner bodies is at the heart of NIBS activity. In
addition, over the REF period NIBS has convened a wide variety of events, including a broad range
of conferences and workshops, featuring the following:
 NIBS Spring Workshop (2014): Household Financial Decision Making and Behaviour, joint with
    Carnegie-Mellon University, including a keynote address by George Loewenstein
 NIBS Autumn Workshop (2014)
 NIBS Spring Workshop (2015): Behavioural Science and Policy, joint with the Financial Conduct
    Authority and Competition and Markets Authority. Including a keynote address by Colin
    Camerer
 Link to Event mini-site
 NIBS Autumn Workshop (2015):
 NIBS Spring Workshop (2016)
 NIBS Autumn Workshop (2016)
 Workshop on Social Preferences and Incentives (Nov 2016)
 NIBS Spring Workshop (2017): Behavioural Science & Public Policy Workshop, joint with the
    Financial Conduct Authority and Department for Business, Innovation and Skills
 NIBS Autumn Workshop (2017)
 A Conference in Honour of Vernon L Smith Awarded a Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in
    2002 (Dec 2017), including a keynote address by Vernon Smith
 NIBS Autumn Workshop (2018)
 CRIBS Annual Symposium 2018 on “Preferences, Market and Society” (Jun 2018)
 “Social Integration, Group Cohesion & Community Resilience” Workshop (Dec 2018)
 NIBS Autumn Workshop (2019)
 NIBS Autumn Workshop (2020) Including a keynote address by Stefano DellaVigna

Development of the Discipline

Members of the School have undertaken scientific advisory work for funding bodies, professional

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
societies, research institutions (as members of scientific advisory panels or through participation in
with institutional reviews) and by serving on professorial appointment committees.

Associate Editorships held by colleagues in the School include: Bulletin of Economic Research
(Sonderegger, 2019-present; De Fraja, 2006-present); Economia (Cruces); Econometric Reviews
(Trapani); Econometric Theory (Marsh); Economic Letters (Harvey); Economics and Politics
(Facchini, 2017-present); Economics of Education Review (De Fraja, 2006-present); International
Economics (Facchini, 2015-present); Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series A (Harvey,
2013-16); Journal of Time Series Econometrics (Leybourne, 2014-present); Management Science
(Gaechter, 2011-17); Review of International Economics (Facchini, 2013-present); Southern
Economic Journal (De Fraja, 2014-present)

Funding Bodies. Colleagues have undertaken reviewer roles for funding bodies including AHRC
(Gathergood); Austrian Academy of Science (Geachter); Bank of England (Mizen); British Academy
(Barr; Nosenzo; Starmer; Facchini; Gathergood; Cubitt; Gaechter; Renner); EPRSC (Gathergood);
ESRC (Barr; Nosenzo; Starmer, 2015-17; De Fraja; Montero; Jul 2010-present; Mizen; Cubitt;
Gaechter; Tufano, Albornoz, 2008-present); Israel Science Foundation (Gaechter); Italian Research
Council (De Fraja); Leverhulme Trust (Barr; Starmer; De Fraja; Facchini; Gathergood; Mizen;
Gaechter); Medical Research Council (Cubitt); National Centre for Research Methods (Barr);
National Science Foundation (US) (Harvey; Nosenzo; Starmer; Rustagi; De Fraja; Facchini;
Gathergood; Cubitt; Gaechter; Rustagi; Jensen); Social Science and Humanities Research Council
(Canada) (Facchini; Mizen; Cubitt; Gaechter); Swiss National Science Foundation (Nosenzo; De
Fraja; Montero; Gaechter; Renner); Volkswagen Foundation (Gaechter), Millennium Science
Initiative (Albornoz).

Research Institutions and Appointment Committees, including Bank of England (Mizen, 2015 –
consultant and academic panel member); Bonn Graduate School of Economics (Gaechter, 2010-
present: Scientific Advisory Board); Competition and Markets Authority (Gathergood, 2015-16);
Financial Conduct Authority (Nosenzo; Gathergood, 2018-19; 2014-17); International Finance and
Banking Society (Mizen, 2017 & 2019); Economic Statistics Centre of Excellence (Mizen, 2017-,
conference committees, management group); Money Macro and Finance Society (Mizen, 2016-,
chairman and trustee); Office for National Statistics (Mizen, 2018-, Fellow, Econmic Experts
Working Group) National Evaluation and Prospective Agency (ANEP) (Spain) (Albornoz, 2016-
present); Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (Facchini, 2016);
POLECONUK (Testa); University of Cologne (Gaechter, 2010-15: Scientific Advisory Board)

PhD External, PhD Training and Assessment: including European University Institute (Facchini;
Mizen); London School of Economics (Testa; Mizen; Gaechter, 2018; Leybourne, Albornoz, 2019,
2020); Paris School of Economics (Facchini); Universidad Autonoma de Barcelona (Licandro,
2015); University of Bristol (Leybourne); University of Cambridge (Leybourne); University College
London (Facchini; Gaechter, 2015); University of Edinburgh (De Fraja 2019; Gaechter, 2017);
University of Essex (Facchini); University of Oxford (Mizen; Cubitt, 2015; Leybourne); University of
Warwick (Starmer; Mizen; Albornoz); Bank of England (Mizen, 2015-present); World Bank
(Albornoz, 2015-16; Renner)

Esteem Indicators

External fellowships awarded to colleagues include Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab
(Cruces, 2020-present); Academy of Social Sciences (De Fraja, Lee, Mizen, 2019-present); Center
for Development Research –Bonn University (Rustagi, 2015-present); Center for Economic
Performance –LSE (Impullitti, 2018-present); Centre for Research & Analysis of Migration –at UCL
(Facchini, 2010-present); Centro Studi Luca D’Agliano (Testa, 2009-present; Impullitti, 2015-
present); CEPR –International Trade and Regional Economics (Impullitti, 2020-present; Facchini,

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2013-present); CEPR (Albornoz, 2020-present; Hinnosaar, 2019-present; Licandro; De Fraja, 1993-
present); CESifo (Impullitti, 2011-present; Facchini, 2009-present; Gaechter, 2002-present;
Licandro); Institute of Government & Public Affairs –at University of Illinois (Facchini, 2007-present);
IZA Institute of Labor Economics (Facchini, 2011-present; Cruces, 2010-present; Gaechter, 2003-
present); Journal of Economics (Fellow, Leyborne, 2018- present); Novo Tempus –Paris,
Pantheon-Sorbonne (Jensen); Journal of Time Series Analysis (Distinguished Author, 2020-
present); Office for National Statistics (Mizen, 2018-present); Royal Society of Arts (Mizen, 2019-
present); STICERD – LSE (Testa, 2001-present)

External Funding Awards achieved by colleagues (in addition to UKRI and ERC) include
Bank of England & Stanford University (Mizen, 2017-21); British Academy – Small Grant (Yu);
British Academy (Gaechter, Aug 2018 – Jul 2020); British Academy / Leverhulme Small Research
Grant (Nosenzo, 2014 & 2016; Facchini, 2016-17; 2016-17; Sonderegger, 2018); Center for
Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences –at Stanford University (Rustagi, 2019); Economic
Statistics Centre of Excellence (Mizen, 2016-20); ENEL Foundation (Facchini, 2013-16); Jacob
Wallenberg Foundation – Young Researcher Award (Rickne, 2015); Marie Curie Fellowship
(Starmer, Oct 2015 – Sept 2017); National Centre for Scientific Research (France) (Jensen, 2012-
16); Netherlands Organisations for Scientific Research - Science for Global Development (Facchini,
2011-15); Swedish Research Council (Rickne, Jan 2019 – Dec 2021 & Jan 2013 – Dec 2015);
Volkswagen Foundation (Testa; Facchini)




                                                                                             Page 19
