Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 21: Sociology
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and structure
 Sociology at Cardiff University is located within the School of Social Sciences (SOCSI). The
 School was established 20 years ago as a strategic combination of disciplines and fields of study
 including sociology, social policy, social work, criminology and education. Having expanded
 significantly in scope and capability, SOCSI is currently home to 250 staff (including 93 academic
 colleagues on Teaching and Research (T&R) pathways and 84 on Research (R) pathways) and
 is submitting across a number of Units of Assessment, with 49.74 FTE being returned to Sociology.
 SOCSI promotes interdisciplinary, innovative and impactful research, and Sociology thrives in this
 context as an essential constituent and contributor. Sociological research in SOCSI addresses
 five broad and overlapping areas (listed below), each of which is supported by special interest
 research groups, which form key collaboration points, meeting on a regular basis and providing
 the intellectual environment for most colleagues. These groups are complemented by our large,
 externally funded research centres, underpinning high levels of research grant income and
 engagement with policy and professional audiences (see section 3). This combination of groups
 and centres delivers a lively synthesis of sociological theory and method, interdisciplinary
 conversation and the latest thinking in relation to real-world challenges. Our Sociology research
 areas are:
 Inequalities, division and diversity (Research contract staff = 22.5 FTE; Grant income =
 £13.4M; Current PhDs = 28). People: Baker; Brand; Chaney; Forrester; Greenland; Hick;
 Hoolachan; Johns; MacBride-Stewart; Mendes Fialho*; Nandy; Pearce*; Pomati; Rees Jones;
 Slater; Stanley; A. Williams; Malcolm Williams (name in bold indicates appointment in this REF
 period; asterisk indicates current ECR).
 Colleagues in this area share an interdisciplinary focus on the impact of inequalities on people’s
 everyday life, working with the ‘Migration, Race and Ethnicity Group’ and research centres in this
 area, including:
     •     Children's Social Care Research and Development Centre (CASCADE; Director,
           Forrester) was launched in 2014 and is one of the leading centres for children’s social care
           research in the UK. It obtained circa £3M in infrastructure funding from Health and Care
           Research Wales (HCRW) to support its strengths in evaluative research and the
           involvement of children and young people, including randomised controlled trials, quasi-
           experimental studies, data linkage and qualitative and mixed method research.
         • Wales Institute of Social & Economic Research and Data (WISERD; Co-director,
           Chaney) is a well-established ESRC centre (funded for a third time during this REF period)
           with a particular focus on civil society and the use of administrative data, operating as a
           networked research institute with an organisational Hub at Cardiff and partners in
           Aberystwyth University, Bangor University, the University of South Wales and Swansea
           University. WISERD’s research during this REF period includes work on understanding
           and supporting the effectiveness of labour market interventions in Wales; social action as
           a route to the ballot box; and young people and Brexit.
 Culture, interaction and everyday life (Grant income = £81K; Current PhDs = 15). People:
 Atkinson; Davey*; Delamont; Dicks; Hall; Hurdley; D. Smith; R. Smith.
 Drawing on Cardiff’s 40-year history of ethnographic innovation, the two research groups closely
 associated with this area – ‘Ethnography, Culture and Interpretive Analysis’ and ‘Cardiff
 Ethnomethodology Ethnography Interaction and Talk’ – contribute to key developments in
 ethnography, visual, mobile, and multimodal methodologies, as well as the analysis of material
 culture, discourse and talk-in-interaction. Outputs from this theme include ethnographic
 monographs exploring, for example, issues around masculinities, embodiment, and globalisation
 through a study of a martial art; how brand-name corporations come to transform and reconstitute


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 traditional forms of elite sociability and exclusivity; and the nature of street-level poverty, violence
 and isolation among homeless people in the modern city.
 Crime, security and justice (Research contract staff = 12 FTE; Grant income = £6.7M; Current
 PhDs = 32). People: Edwards; Giommoni; Hudson; H. Innes; M. Innes; T. Jones; Levi; Lowe;
 Roberts; Robinson; Stevens; Swann; Trajtenberg*; Verbruggen; Matthew Williams.
 Sociology colleagues in the ‘Cardiff Crime, Law and Justice’ (CCLJ) research group – a
 longstanding collaboration with the Cardiff School of Law and Politics – have conducted local,
 national and international research projects on white collar and cybercrime, illicit markets,
 domestic abuse, sexual offending, the night-time economy, and crime control. Two key research
 centres have played crucial roles in the development of methodological approaches for using
 social media and online data in criminological research:
     •   Cardiff University’s Crime and Security Research Institute (CSRI; Director, M. Innes),
         a major cross-University investment, focuses on international security threats and police
         science, with a strong record of research on digital analytics and the use of open source
         digital data in the context of counter-terrorism and national security. CSRI's outputs have
         tracked and traced the ways disinformation is increasingly influential in shaping political
         agendas and public perceptions across a range of social problems, such as the aftermath
         of terror attacks, foreign state interference in democratic elections, and responses to
         Covid-19.
     •   The Social Data Science Lab (SDSL; Co-director, Matthew Williams) brings together
         crime, social, computer, and statistical scientists to study the empirical and theoretical
         dimensions of new and emerging forms of data. This is complemented by a focus on ethics
         and the development of new methodological tools and technical solutions for the UK
         academic, public and private sectors. Colleagues in the Lab were the first to publish
         research on the social media reaction to a terrorist incident (2013 Woolwich attack),
         providing evidence that online hate speech has a ‘half-life’ following trigger events.
 Science, technology and risk (Research contract staff = 2 FTE; Grant income = £3.2M; Current
 PhDs = 19). People: Arribas Ayllon; Collins; De Vos; Dimond; Evans; Groves; Fitzgerald;
 Hedgecoe; Henwood; Housley; R. Jones; Lewis; Sloan; Thomas.
 Colleagues working in this area come from backgrounds including medical sociology, STS as well
 as social psychology, sociology and social theory. Research groups affiliated with this area
 include: ‘Medicine, Science and Culture’, focusing on topics such as reproductive technologies,
 the challenges of psychiatric genomics and prenatal screening for Down's syndrome; the ‘Digital
 Sociology Research Group’, theorising digital sociology and digital methods; and the ‘Knowledge,
 Expertise and Science (KES)’ group which explores the sociology of expertise (including new
 methodological approaches such as the ‘imitation game’), social robotics and the challenges of
 understanding environmental and socio-cultural change and risk.
 Education, skills and labour market (Research contract staff = 4 FTE; Grant income = £3.7M;
 Current PhDs = 4). People: Bailey; Bowring; Cam; Cheung; Fevre; Sampson; Walters.
 Sociology-facing colleagues involved in this research area work within our ‘Survey Data Users
 Brown Bag’ (SURDUBB) research group (a large group of quantitative and mixed methods
 researchers, working with large-scale surveys and administrative data), as well as research into
 risk and trust in work environments, and health and safety in a range of industries. A distinctive
 research centre in this area is:
    •    The Seafarers International Research Centre (SIRC; Director, Sampson) undertakes
         work on the international cargo shipping industry and personnel working within it, focusing
         on issues of occupational health and safety, work, education, training and regulation. In
         this REF period it published reports on a range of safety issues, including The causes of
         maritime accidents 2002-2016, and The working and living conditions of seafarers in the
         period 2011-2016, which have influenced industry debates.
 Strategic oversight of the above activities is provided by our Research Committee (RC), whose
 membership reflects the School’s diverse research community, and is chaired by the School’s

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Director of Research (DoR) (Hedgecoe), who is also a core member of SOCSI’s Senior
 Management Team.
 1.2 Research strategy
 Three principles underpin our strategy for sociological research and overall mission: that research
 excellence can only be achieved by ongoing investment, interdisciplinarity and innovation; that
 universities have a duty to grow the next generation of researchers; and that all (social scientific
 and) sociological research has public value and the potential for impact. The success of this
 strategy during the REF period is evident in the following headline figures for sociology:
    •   Research grant capture over £27.7M, almost doubling our research income from 2014
        (£14M).
    •   Over 90 doctoral degrees supervised to completion by sociology colleagues, 48 of
        these ESRC-funded.
    •   A commitment to equality and diversity, and career development, including work
        towards Athena Swan Bronze status (re-awarded in 2017) and 100% success rate in
        academic promotion for female colleagues.
    •   The publication of over 900 sociology and related research outputs, including almost
        700 journal articles and 36 books (edited collections not included).
    •   The editorship of nine peer-reviewed sociology and interdisciplinary journals,
        including Sociology of Health and Illness, Social Studies of Science and the International
        Journal of Social Research Methodology.
    •   Significant investment to support the production of impactful research, through the
        establishment of new internal support mechanisms and the steady acquisition of external
        resources (totalling £156K from the ESRC-IAA and GCRF impact schemes).
 During the REF period, and guided by the principles noted above, the unit made a strategic priority
 of the following areas of development and investment, each of which significantly invigorated and
 will further consolidate sociological research at Cardiff.
        i) New colleagues and career development. We recruited 21 new academic colleagues
        in this REF period, bolstering established areas of excellence including STS, Crime,
        Security and Justice, and innovation in research methods. Predominantly and deliberately
        early career appointments, these colleagues benefitted from a bespoke three-year
        package of support, including protected teaching load, senior mentoring and £3,000 p.a.
        for research expenses. The dividend from this investment is already apparent across our
        research publications, impact and income profiles.
        ii) Interdisciplinary initiatives including the development of new research centres such
        as CASCADE and the SDSL, each of these a significant undertaking with dedicated
        academic staff and infrastructure. There is also considerable developmental work as a
        contributor to SPARK, the world’s first social science research park. SPARK is a Cardiff
        University initiative, already active as an engine of interdisciplinary and applied research
        straddling the social, physical and biological sciences and with sociology colleagues
        directly involved. It will be established in physical premises later this year as part of a
        £300M Innovation Campus, at which time three of our research centres will relocate there
        as affiliate contributors (see section 3).
        iii) Co-location as a spur to research excellence, innovation, and impact. We have
        consistently resourced and encouraged academic co-location – the sharing of setting and
        facility in the maturation of sociological understanding. This includes, of course, visiting
        fellowships (which we welcome and support; see section 4.1), and, crucially, backing for
        colleagues as members of advisory panels, as expert witnesses and in taking up
        secondments to external organisations. A high-profile example of the latter is Holland’s
        secondment to the role of Children’s Commissioner for Wales. Co-location promotes a
        healthy circulation of staff and expertise, priming the pump for future research
        collaboration, societal impact, academic publication and partnered doctoral opportunities.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        iv) International relationships pursued throughout the REF period have extended our
        sociological reach, building collaboration and developing comparative sociological work.
        International conference travel is routinely and generously supported in SOCSI, beyond
        which our hosting of international fellowships has generated reciprocal and dispersed
        arrangements, such as Housley taking the Vincent Wright Chair at SciencesPo in Paris
        and Cheung’s Invitation Fellowship to the University of Tokyo. We have taken advantage
        of Cardiff University’s International Partnerships with KU Leuven, Xiamen University,
        Beijing Normal University and most substantially to date, UNICAMP. Nandy and Pomati’s
        research teamwork with colleagues at UNICAMP led to new funded work on
        multidimensional poverty and social stratification in Brazil.
 1.3 Research impact
 We are confident of the intrinsic merit of sociological research; we also take it as axiomatic that
 sociology has public value and impact as a contributor to wider society, and have established a
 solid reputation for the production of research that is beneficial to a wide range of external
 stakeholders. We know through experience the value of co-producing research with valued non-
 academic collaborators to ensure its ethicality, digestibility, timeliness and relevance. Exemplifying
 this tradition and highlighting its importance to our current and future research success, we
 promote the following as key enablers of our impactful research (see also section 4.3):
        i) Supporting staff membership on external committees at the Welsh, UK and
        international levels. Hallett’s chairing of the Welsh Government’s Task and Finish Group
        to develop the All Wales Practice Guide on Child Sexual Exploitation and Levi’s
        membership of Europol’s European Cybercrime Centre advisory board are good examples
        of how membership of committees enhances engagement with external actors and
        provides a clear pathway to impact for our research.
        ii) Investment in Research Centres providing a concentration of interdisciplinary
        expertise on specific social issues and problems. Their advisory boards bring our
        academics into close contact with research user groups, helping refine and develop
        research agendas, weaving research users into the design, delivery and dissemination of
        the research process, contributing to change in practice. Notable examples include
        WISERD’s online digital archive of the voluntary sector in partnership with Wales Council
        for Voluntary Action, or SDSL’s partnership with the charity Stop Hate UK to stem the flow
        of online hate speech.
        iii) A secondment policy enabling colleagues to be co-located in policy/stakeholder
        institutions. For example, in 2016, Dicks began a three-year secondment to Amgueddfa
        Cymru (National Museum Wales) as Head of Research, consolidating and enhancing its
        Independent Research Organisation status, and producing a Research Strategy and
        Research Ethics Code of Practice for the Museum. This enabled it to gain a £750K
        collaborative AHRC grant with Cardiff University, and membership of the AHRC
        Collaborative Doctoral Partnership and South West and Wales Doctoral Training
        Partnership. Secondments of shorter duration to pump academic expertise into discrete
        policy and professional arenas have also proved mutually beneficial (e.g. Robinson’s one-
        year secondment to the national domestic abuse charity SafeLives).
 To help ensure the continuation of this legacy into the next generation of sociological researchers,
 in this REF period we established internal support mechanisms to enable and sustain the
 production of impactful research. These include creating designated academic and professional
 support staff roles. Sitting on the Senior Management Team, Robinson has served as Director of
 Impact since 2015, providing continuous strategic leadership for the School’s impact and
 engagement activities and two administrators have served in an ‘Impact Officer’ role, gathering
 evidence of impact activities from research centres and individual colleagues. A budget ringfenced
 for impact activities, training sessions, writing retreats, study leave and workload points for REF
 impact case authors are other internal mechanisms within our research environment designed to
 facilitate the production of impactful research. Both as a consequence of and complementary to
 these internal mechanisms is the large volume of grants funded by external sources to support


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 secondments, engagement events and pilot projects (e.g. those awarded to Chaney, Fevre, Innes,
 Nandy, Pomati and Robinson).
 Although the significance and reach of this unit’s impact over this REF period is far greater than
 can be captured within the four impact case studies, they are nevertheless indicative of the
 inclusive and supportive impact environment we have established in SOCSI, with two led by
 individual academics (Hallett and Robinson) and two led by directors of Research Centres (Innes
 and Williams). All four cases demonstrate the value of international collaborations and the
 dividends from our strategic enablers (e.g. Robinson’s ESRC-IAA secondment, Innes’ advisory
 work, Hallett and Williams’ expert evidence to government inquiries, etc.).
 1.4 Open Research
 All Category A staff have ORCIDs and full text of all journal articles are in Cardiff University’s open
 access digital repository within three months of acceptance, with almost all journal articles
 published during this REF period compliant. To ensure accuracy and consistency, the professional
 services research team are responsible for uploading outputs onto the repository; researchers
 only need to inform the team on manuscript acceptance. This team also operate a proactive ‘safety
 net’ approach to ensuring Open Access (OA) compliance, with Scopus and Web of Science alerts
 allowing the identification of new publications and prompting specific staff to enter relevant
 information into the repository. Financial support for OA is available from the School Research
 Committee, as well via University funding, aligned to the Institution’s commitment to open research
 (see REF5a).
 1.5 Research ethics and integrity
 The School Research Ethics Committee (SREC), established in 2005, is responsible for all
 research carried out in the School (Staff, PGR and Undergraduate) unless responsibility for ethics
 review falls to an NHS REC. The SREC is independent of the DoR; it meets on a monthly basis
 during term-time and includes stand-in members to ensure proper coverage of the whole range of
 disciplines researched in the School, at all meetings. The School provides 0.5 FTE in professional
 service support and workload points for SREC members.
 The School follows Cardiff University’s policy on research ethics/integrity, including compliance
 with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and staff are required to complete the online
 university research integrity training (see REF5a).
 1.6 Future strategic aims and goals for research
 The core aim for SOCSI is to maintain its position as one of the largest interdisciplinary schools of
 social science in the UK, fostering research excellence and innovation alongside significant
 societal impact. With regard to sociology, our strategic priorities for the next REF period are to:
    •   Maximise the opportunities for interdisciplinarity and impact afforded by SPARK
        (see section 3). SPARK is the first social science research park in the world. Three of the
        unit’s research centres will be co-located there later this year, alongside other centres from
        the School and the University and key external stakeholders from the public, private and
        third sectors.
    •   Consolidate our Athena Swan Bronze award and apply for Silver as part of our
        continuing commitment to equality and diversity.
    •   Increase research grant resilience through targeted mentoring, grant horizon scanning
        and collaborative workshops to promote medium-sized research grant success (circa
        £500K) for individual academic colleagues. This will complement existing large research
        grant success (typically centre- and team-based).
    •   Develop a new interdisciplinary research centre on the theme of ‘Migration’ to build
        on the rapid growth of the ‘Migration, Race and Ethnicity’ (MEAD) research group.
        Conversations with colleagues in other schools (e.g. Business School) are underway, so
        too is the acquisition of funding for pump-priming activities, including a network of partners
        across the UK.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 The School recognises that its staff are key to maintaining its position as an internationally leading
 centre for social scientific research, and our research strategy is underpinned by policies on staff
 development, diversity, and recruitment. At the unit level, T&R staff comprise 18 professors, six
 readers, 10 senior lecturers and 13 lecturers. In keeping with the School as a whole (which has
 reduced its use of fixed-term contracts for academics from 17% in 2013 to 11% in 2019), the
 majority (87%) of Sociology colleagues are on open ended teaching and research contracts.
 Within the assessment period, the Sociology staff profile has been relatively stable, with 15 T&R
 staff leaving, and 21 new colleagues recruited (15M/6F) – 18 lecturers (Gr.6/7), two SLs, and one
 professor – focusing on areas with a critical gap, or those highlighted for strategic enhancement
 (e.g. STS or quantitative methods) (see section 2.3).
 The University’s workload model provides a standard, systematic approach to workload allocation,
 and ensures that academic staff are given the time and opportunity to develop their careers. We
 choose to allocate, on an equal basis, the maximum workload time allowed to institutionally
 supported research, with all T&R staff receiving 600 hours (40%) for research. This safeguards
 research time for colleagues and can flexibly accommodate specific commitments (e.g.
 international fellowships, secondments, and externally-funded projects). The School also has a
 research-led teaching commitment, ensuring that specialist research areas are reflected in the
 modules staff teach (nor are these synergies confined to the classroom; Hall and R. Smith’s New
 York research visits have combined papers delivered at CUNY, observational studies of homeless
 outreach services, and research project tuition with Cardiff undergraduate students on
 Manhattan’s Lower East Side).
 To recognise and reward research and impact, the annual Performance Development Review
 (PDR) with line managers sets targets for research proposals, outputs and impact plans, and
 success in these areas is explicitly accounted for in promotion applications.
 2.2 Supporting research development
 The School supports its research active staff at all career stages, with specific initiatives including:
 Contract researchers:
    • Researcher induction: In addition to the University/School induction and membership of the
      Cardiff University Research Staff Association (CURSA, see REF5a), each research centre
      has its own induction process for all new staff, and support needs are identified through
      mandatory annual PDRs and probation reviews.
    • Teaching: Research staff have the (voluntary) opportunity to develop their teaching skills,
      ranging from dissertation supervision through to single guest lectures or lecture 'blocks' as
      part of research centre run modules.
    • Researcher representatives: Four research colleagues serve in this two-year role,
      participating in the School’s People and Environment, and Research Committees, helping
      shape the agenda on behalf of research staff. Researcher representatives also arrange the
      Research-Staff forum lunch twice a year, at which senior staff (DoR, for example) attend to
      engage with research colleagues.
    • Research Committee funding: Research staff have the same access to research committee
      funding for conferences, travel and other forms of support as T&R staff. We spent over £71k
      during this REF period supporting Research staff conferences and travel.
 ECR T&R staff:
    • Research mentoring: This is specifically relevant to ECRs (though available for all
      colleagues), with experienced staff – independent of direct line-management – supporting
      and enhancing the career opportunities of early career colleagues. Mentoring is also
      provided for specific activities, such as grant writing and publication. Mentors undergo a
      training session and then are matched with mentees by the DoR/Deputy DoR.


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Senior T&R staff:
    • Research Leader support: During the REF period, three Sociology staff completed the
      Aurora (Advance HE's leadership development initiative for women); eight staff completed
      the University’s Leadership and Management Development Programme for Research Team
      Leaders, and two completed the University’s Developing Leaders training course. In
      addition, three Sociology colleagues also participated in the Welsh Crucible, a prestigious
      programme for future research leaders in Wales.
 2.3 Recruitment and succession planning
 Succession planning is central to our strategy, and our success in promoting internally reflects the
 importance of developing the next generation of academics. Of the 18 Sociology-facing lecturers
 appointed in this REF period, 12 (Davy, Dimond, Fitzgerald, Giommoni, Hoolachan, Lewis, Nandy,
 Pomati, Slater, D. Smith, Thomas, Trajtenberg) were early career appointments (Grade 6). We
 acknowledged the challenges faced at the start of an academic career by reducing the teaching
 workload to half that of a normal post (for three years) and provision of £3,000 p.a. for research
 expenses over the same period. While recruitment is partly shaped by teaching needs, strategic
 research goals are also critical, with recruitment to STS (Dimond, Fitzgerald, Thomas, Lewis) and
 Crime, Security and Justice (Giommoni, Cook, Stevens, Trajtenberg, Verbruggen) in light of our
 post-2014 research plans.
 The successful support of promotion applications has been a feature of this REF cycle. Between
 2014 and 2020, 18 Sociology colleagues applied for promotion to Senior Lecturer, with 16 (89%)
 succeeding; of 12 applications for promotion to Reader, 11 (92%) were successful; and there were
 nine successful applications (out of 10) for promotion to Professor (90%).
 Table 1: Staffing data
                  Promotions        School      study   University          Research
                                    leave               Research Leave      Committee funding
  Male             85% (23/27)      40% (2/5)           66% (8/12)          £127K
   success
  Female           100% (13/13)     60% (6/10)          75% (6/8)           £110K
   success

 2.4 Research leave
 In addition to the expanded research time for individuals that comes from our funding success –
 for example, in 2019-20, through external grant income, around 14 members of our T&R staff had
 more than 30% teaching ‘buy out’ – the unit takes advantage of two research leave schemes.
 During the assessment period, eight sociology colleagues benefited from School supported single
 semester study leave, which provide a semester’s leave for research supporting our broader
 strategic aims. For example, R. Smith’s Visiting Fellowship at the Centre for Mobilities Research
 (CeMoRe), Lancaster University, led to an article in Journal of Pragmatics nominated for the ASA
 Ethnomethodology and Conversation Analysis 'best paper' award. We believe that the flexibility of
 this leave scheme, providing wide latitude to colleagues to develop areas of research they deem
 a priority, underlines our confident and mature research culture.
 The second category of leave is the University Research Leave scheme, which 14 Sociology
 colleagues successfully applied for during the REF period (including three on the new ‘Disglair’
 Lectureship Scheme – see REF5a). These periods of leave were determined in a competitive
 process run by the University, intended to allow staff to produce strategically significant research
 outputs; develop research awards and / or new collaborations: for example, Fevre’s Inequality and
 Individualism: the future of work and politics; Arribas Ayllon’s co-authored Psychiatric genetics:
 From hereditary madness to big biology; or Edwards’ interdisciplinary ‘Digital Wildfire’ ESRC-
 funded project focusing on governance and regulation of harmful online communications.
 2.5 Support mechanisms: training and supervision of PGR students
 Doctoral training is focused on the interdisciplinary ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Centre (DTC),
 and its successor since 2016, the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), a

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration between Cardiff University (lead institution), Aberystwyth University, Bangor
 University, Cardiff Metropolitan University, the University of Swansea and the University of
 Gloucestershire. SOCSI led and administered the Wales DTP and its forerunner from 2011 to
 2019 and continues to host the largest concentration of ESRC pathways, including: criminology;
 digital economy and society; science and technology studies; social policy; social work and social
 care; and sociology.
 The School has a large PGR community: during this REF period, 99.5 PhD students – 48 funded
 on an ESRC studentship – were supervised to completion by Sociology colleagues, an increase
 on REF 2014 (73.5 completions). The DTP’s preference for engaging with external funders means
 that a number of our ESRC studentships were co-funded (including in-kind) by organisations such
 as: the National Museum of Wales; Newport Children's Services; the Office for National Statistics;
 Natural Resources Wales; and the Metropolitan Police Service and Home Office. Other Sociology
 students have been funded by the Nippon foundation (15) and Healthcare and Research Wales
 (two), with one Howard Jones studentship for criminological research in the Caribbean.
 Complementing the PhD programme, and reflecting the School’s commitment to research
 collaboration with professions and agencies, we offer Professional Doctorates (PD), with pathways
 in Health, Social Policy, and Social Work, with a total of 35 students currently enrolled. These
 programmes are structured around two years of coursework (with teaching concentrated on
 weekend courses) followed by a three-year dissertation component.
 Table 2: Panel C Specific Table: PhD/PD completions by academic year
                 13-14      14-15      15-16    16-17      17-18    18-19                   19-20
   PhD             15.5        9.5         11.5        13          11.5         12          14
   Prof Doc        2           4           0           0.5         3            2.5         0.5
   TOTAL           17.5        13.5        11.5        13.5        14.5         14.5        14.5
  (0.5 indicates supervision shared with another UOA).
 All full-time PhD students are required to complete the Masters in Social Science Research
 Methods (or to demonstrate equivalent prior qualifications). Academic staff from across the School
 provide core, generic modules and pathway-specific options. Quantitative and qualitative methods
 are equally represented, together with general research organisation and study skills, research
 design and research management. Sessions introduce students to a variety of research and
 employment opportunities through exposure to members of the University’s Research Centres
 and awareness of Research Impact is also emphasised. A notable exemplar of our approach to
 cultivating the next generation of successful/impactful researchers is Hallett, whose impact case
 submitted to this REF is underpinned by her 2017 book, based on her research as a SOCSI PhD
 student.
 Throughout their doctoral training, students are required to undertake further research capacity
 development. As well as offering a residential writing retreat and funding for student-led activities
 such as seminar series, workshops, and public engagement activities, the University’s Doctoral
 Academy (see REF5a) runs over 200 workshops and training events each year covering formal
 and informal learning opportunities: from writing and planning thesis work to time management to
 collaborative research environments. PGRs’ development needs are identified and agreed by the
 student and their supervisor at the start of the degree and regularly reviewed and updated as
 appropriate; students are expected to take part in a minimum of 10 days or equivalent professional
 skills development per year and are encouraged to take responsibility for their own learning, during
 and after their programme of study, and to recognise the value of developing transferable skills.
 PGRs have their own workstation and IT provision, including software for the analysis of
 quantitative and qualitative data. Our doctoral students play an active part in the activities of
 research centres and groups, via seminar presentations, or reading-group participation – with
 conference presentations typically rehearsed in research-group meetings. With financial support
 from the School, PGRs organise their own Postgraduate Café, a forum for research-focused
 discussion, which meets every month to discuss a range of topics related to social research,
 current affairs, politics and culture, fostering dialogue between postgraduate students in a relaxed,

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 informal and supportive environment. In addition to postgraduate speakers, the Café welcomes
 academic colleagues from SOCSI and other Schools to speak about topics of broader interest to
 PGR students, such as ‘Life beyond the PhD’ and ‘Writing for Journals’.
 All PGR students have two supervisors, selected to complement substantive, theoretical and
 methodological expertise, and all supervisors receive mandatory training. To enhance
 interdisciplinary supervision, we take advantage of skills in other Schools where appropriate, with
 some co-supervisors coming from Psychology, Law and Politics, Bioscience and Journalism.
 Student progress is monitored formally on a six-monthly basis, with students submitting draft
 chapters for review annually, as well as presenting their work at Postgraduate Day Conferences.
 An academic reviewer (who is not a supervisor) reports formally on progress and vivas are chaired
 by a member of staff who is not an examiner and has been trained in this task.
 We draw on colleagues’ experience with research funders to support applications for postdoctoral
 fellowships and, in this REF cycle, have helped eight students successfully apply for fellowships
 from funders such as: HCRW, the ESRC, Cancer Research UK and the British Academy. Recent
 lectureship appointments include Cardiff University as well as Swansea University, the University
 of Bristol, Bath Spa University, the University of Birmingham, the University of Manchester, the
 University of York and the University of Plymouth, as well as overseas posts such as the University
 of Hong Kong and Flinders University.
 2.6 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 SOCSI works to implement the key objectives of Cardiff University's Equality and Diversity Policy
 (see REF5a), including completing training such as a mandatory online module on EDI,
 classroom-based training for all line managers and required training for all Chairs of recruitment
 panels, which includes EDI and unconscious bias training. The Unit follows all principles of the
 University’s REF 2021 Code of Practice, which focuses on inclusion, transparency and strong
 engagement with staff. The School’s senior management team have all undertaken REF-specific
 equality, diversity and inclusion training aligned to their REF roles. In 2017, after detailed self-
 assessment of our performance and needs in promoting gender equality, the School gained a
 Bronze Athena Swan Award. We have an action plan to work towards a further application for
 Silver, including activities such as: using the annual SOCSI survey to improve the data available
 for monitoring gender equality, by including data on the admission and recruitment of students
 and the career progression of academic, research and professional support staff.
 The School’s Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee reports to the People and Environment
 Committee and meets four times a year, providing strategic direction, leadership and support for
 promoting and maintaining EDI across the School. For example, this Sub-Committee is
 responsible for the implementation of Athena Swan and analyses data on appointments, and feeds
 into practices such as policies to address the impact of maternity leave on women’s careers,
 including workload allocation reductions and re-induction for returners.
 The School ensures that principles of equity and excellence are inscribed in terms of recruitment
 (via gender balanced recruitment panels) and the allocation of research relevant resources (see
 table in section 2.3). Decisions on School study leave and nominations for University Research
 Leave are determined by the School’s senior management team, which aims to achieve gender
 balance in allocations. While research committee funding decisions are made on a case by case
 basis by the DoR, these are reported back to the School Research Committee for oversight. The
 flexible nature of this funding allows the School to fund conference travel for the accompanying
 partners of female colleagues returning from maternity leave with very young children, where
 appropriate.
 In relation to issues of race and ethnicity, a member of the Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee
 chairs the University-wide Student Race Equality Steering Group, and organised a University wide
 event on ‘What comes after BLM’, as well as events at School-level addressing race equality (e.g.
 seminar on Islamophobia Awareness in 2020). More recently, WISERD compiled a portfolio of
 relevant research on the structural inequalities and racism experienced by black and minority
 ethnic groups which will inform research and staffing strategy over the coming years.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Infrastructure and facilities pertaining to research and research impact
 The nature of the unit’s research means that the majority of infrastructural support is in the form
 of staffing. In addition to several support roles previously held at School level and now based
 within the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (e.g. Publicity and Information Officer)
 the unit benefits from:
    • A Research Office, with 4 FTE professional service staff supporting academic colleagues in
      preparing, costing and administering research bids, and performing a horizon-scanning
      function, distributing intelligence about new research opportunities
    • A Graduate Studies Office (3 FTEs) supporting PGR recruitment, training, assessment and
      progress-monitoring, and managing doctoral training
    • 10 professional service staff within the School’s research centres, directly supporting the
      centre Directors and other staff, as well as supporting engagement with external
      organisations (such as WISERD’s Engagement Manager).
 These staffing commitments alone represent an investment of over £3.5M since 2014.
 In terms of facilities, the School has a rolling programme of IT investment, spending £276K on
 equipment (e.g. laptops, recording equipment) and software since 2014, over and above core
 University provision.
 3.2 Supporting research income
 With research income of just over £27.7M this REF (up from circa£14M in 2014), the unit continues
 to have a strong level of investment to support high quality publications and impact activities. Our
 strategy for generating research income involves providing incentives for both individuals and
 research centres to apply for grants, while also ensuring infrastructure supports sound
 administration of projects. Incentives for individuals include Research Committee ring-fenced
 funding, providing income to support research development such as: travel and conference costs;
 seed-corn grants in pursuit of external research grants; seminars to develop research
 collaborations and projects; and visitors to the School.
 Since 2014, the average annual Research Committee budget has been £113K with, in total, £173K
 being spent on supporting attendance at conferences for Sociology colleagues – £128K of this on
 international meetings (see Table 1). Over this REF cycle, £88K was awarded to Sociology
 colleagues for grant development activities, including pilot studies (e.g. funding to help MacBride-
 Stewart employ three researchers, carrying out nearly 100 interviews for the 'Women's Running
 Network Project’), travel to networking events and grant development meetings, as well as more
 output oriented support (such as Hoolachan’s criminology writing retreat in 2017).
 Other mechanisms – acknowledging grant income in promotion processes and incorporating grant
 funded teaching buy out into staff workload – assist incentivising individual applications. Support
 for applications is offered through the research mentor scheme (see section 2), access to a library
 of successful (and unsuccessful) research applications, as well as formal internal review and
 feedback response, required before the School will sign off on an application. Post-award support
 is offered by the school research team for grant management, administrative support around
 meetings/conferences and continued access to Research Committee funding to supplement
 grants (e.g., Fevre’s £1,000 supplement to a successful ESRC-IAA bid for disabled employment
 evidence-based partnerships).
 In the current REF cycle, Sociology colleagues outwith research centres have brought in
 considerable income from large grants (circa £6.8M) including expenditure on Collins’ ERC grant
 developing the imitation game methodology (circa £1.2M), and Hedgecoe’s £360K Wellcome
 Trust grant exploring the clinical impact of new genomic technologies. The continued success of
 our approach is underlined by recent awards producing grant income for the next REF cycle, such
 as Sloan’s circa £650K ESRC grant linking surveys with Twitter data (to 2023).
 The School’s portfolio of research centres, five of which are returned via this submission, represent
 a considerable investment in research infrastructure and physical facilities (such as data-secure

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 spaces). Each centre is supported through the workload model (for full-time Directors and other
 senior staff), the direct cost of administrative and technical staff (see section 3.1), and indirect non-
 pay costs; in 2019/20 alone we returned £864K to Centres for these purposes.
 WISERD (R staff 7.8 FTE), designated as a National Research Centre by the Welsh Government,
 and commended in the Diamond Review of Higher Education in Wales as “a major resource for
 providing knowledge transfer across a wide range of the social sciences”, has transformed the
 research infrastructure for social science in Wales. Central to WISERD’s approach to research is
 its extensive collaboration – such as the Foundational Economy Network drawing together
 academics, parliamentarians and NGOs, or its co-working with Adult Social Care related
 organisations.
 Beyond its core ESRC grants, WISERD has enjoyed considerable success in attracting additional
 funding (over £10M since 2014) including from ERC, AHRC, GCRF, Horizon 2020, Welsh
 Government, and other bodies, demonstrating a capacity to achieve long-term sustainability
 through competitive research funding. Since 2014, the WISERD/Civil Society programme of
 research (£2.6M, ESRC) has explored the changing nature of civil society at local, regional,
 national and international levels. In addition, the programme describes and explains the impact of
 social change on local forms of civil society and civil society organisations, and examines what
 this means for social cohesion and wellbeing. This programme of work formed the basis for a
 successful third round of ESRC centre funding (worth £8M), lasting until 2023.
 WISERD also makes an important contribution to the development of the Welsh Government’s
 National Data Strategy, especially with respect to the linking of administrative data. Together with
 Swansea University, it now hosts ADRC-W – the Administrative Data Research Centre Wales –
 which is designed to strengthen the UK’s competitive advantage in Big Data.
 Aiming to improve our understanding and response to children and families in need, CASCADE
 (R staff 14.7 FTE) is an exemplar of the value of SOCSI’s research support and – with a number
 of its staff returning to UOA 23 – cross-disciplinary nature. During this REF period, sociology-
 facing CASCADE colleagues secured over £10M in research funding from new research grants.
 This includes major infrastructure awards, such as the establishment of the What Works Centre
 (£7M) – an initiative that helps practitioners and decision-makers across the children’s social care
 sector to inform their work with the best possible evidence – or current infrastructure funding, as
 well as a variety of post-doctoral fellowships, small and medium sized grants and large project
 funds. These include work developing best practice with looked-after children in Wales (£290K);
 an evaluation of intervention reducing the risk of children and young people experiencing sexual
 exploitation (£280K); and research into the care outcomes and experiences of 'looked after'
 children (£250K). This work is made possible through close collaborations with the Centre for
 Trials Research, the DECIPHer public health centre (in SOCSI), psychology and secure data
 facilities.
 SIRC (R staff 4 FTE) was established in 1995 and, over the past 15 years, its original focus on
 issues of occupational health and safety has broadened to encompass issues pertinent to work,
 education, training and regulation. Today SIRC is recognised as the leading international authority
 on social science issues relating to shipping and seafaring. As such, much of the £1.8M awarded
 to SIRC during this REF period comes from non-traditional, industry stakeholders including the
 European Chamber of Shipping, the European Transport Federation, the Institution of
 Occupational Safety and Health, and the TK Foundation, as well as more typical academic funders
 – for example the ESRC funded project on religion in multi-ethnic contexts (£570K) – and impact
 support including Lloyd's Register Foundation’s recent £250K award to develop international
 impact from three previous research studies. This emphasises the way in which SIRC engages
 with stakeholders within its area of expertise in a ‘virtuous circle’ of research funding and impact.
 Outcomes in this REF period – in addition to academic publications – include a documentary film
 on the stress caused to seafarers by the corrupt practices of port-personnel and the new anti-
 bribery edicts of ship operators (3,979 downloads); a training resource to improve the relationships
 between ships and staff working ashore (download 533 times with 53 requests by ship operators
 to use as part of a training course); and publication of a report on seafarers’ mental health, hosted
 by the website of the Institution of Safety and Occupational Health.


                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CSRI (incorporating the Universities' Police Science Institute) (R staff 12 FTE) draws together
 expertise from each of Cardiff’s three Colleges in an inter-disciplinary, challenge led forum.
 Focusing on police science, the security and defence applications of computer science and
 artificial intelligence, and Open Source Communications Analytics and Research (OSCAR) for
 Counter-Terrorism and National Security, CSRI demonstrates excellence in terms of grant awards,
 receiving significant funding from UK, Canadian and United States governments, and research
 UKRI funding such as £1.7 million funding for the EDARA and ELASTIC projects (NIHR / ESRC,
 MRC and ARUK) or the University consortium for evidence-based crime reduction (ESRC £260K).
 In addition to its consistent track record of policy and practice development at national and
 international levels, the CSRI builds on collaboration with civil society, academic and
 governmental partners through direct funding. For example, the Institute was commissioned by
 the governments of the UK, US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand (5i) to develop a framework
 for managing strategic communications in the aftermath of terror attacks. This built directly upon
 our previous research programme in this area, funded by the ESRC, UK Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office, and UK Home Office during this REF cycle.
 SDSL, shared with Computer Sciences, is an ESRC Data Investment and forms part of the Big
 Data Network for the social sciences. A £1.4M ESRC Capability Methods and Infrastructure Grant
 provides the Lab's core funding, with additional awards coming from other public (EPSRC, JISC),
 private (Admiral Insurance, Airbus Group) and third sector organisations. To date the Lab has
 been involved in 25 grants amounting to more than £8M, bringing in over £5M directly to Cardiff
 University. Outcomes from this work include the development of bespoke software for New and
 Emerging Forms of Data (NEFD) collection, management, transformation and analysis –
 downloaded over 3,000 times by universities, government departments, charities in the UK, US,
 EU and beyond.
 3.3 Future developments
 Over the next REF period, we will be actively engaged in driving the agenda and ambition of
 SPARK, the first social science research park in the world (see section 1.7). Part of the University’s
 £300M Innovation Campus, this purpose-built facility will co-locate world-leading social science
 researchers with organisations and representatives from the public, third and private sectors, all
 working together to address the major complex challenges facing societies.
 SPARK provides a major opportunity to consolidate and enhance the Unit via the inclusion of three
 of its constituent research centres – WISERD, CSRI, CASCADE – as well as the ESRC Wales
 Doctoral Training Partnership. We have already engaged in shaping SPARK’s major research
 themes – children and young people, mental health and wellbeing, sustainability and futures,
 artificial intelligence, public service delivery and the foundational economy – to build on our
 leadership in these areas. With the co-location of research users, such as colleagues from the
 Office for National Statistics, SPARK provides an outstanding opportunity to foster co-production
 of research for impact; build sustainable research capacity; enhance methodological capabilities;
 support diversity and inclusion in research leadership; and expand professional development for
 research support staff in order to create a world-leading incubator for new research.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by research base
 Visiting fellowships are key to our international networks, and in this REF period we have held
 visiting positions ranging from Leiden University and the University of California, Berkeley
 (Edwards), to the Hebrew University, Jerusalem; Queensland University of Technology; and the
 University of Sydney (Levi), Monash University (Robinson), and Ryukoku University, Japan (T.
 Jones). The ‘domino effect’ from such visiting fellowships can be seen in Cheung’s Japan Society
 for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) funded Invitation Fellowship to the Institute of Social Science
 (University of Tokyo and Keio University). This two-month visit in 2017 involved delivering five
 lectures and seminars on current research, and led to an Erasmus+ International Credit Mobility
 Award from the British Council (with Waseda University in Tokyo and Ryukoku University); a
 Global Guest Professorship at Keio University (2019-2020) Tokyo, (also JSPS funded); and


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participation in an ESRC and Japan Foundation Funded UK-Japan Networking grant on the ‘New
 and Old Diversity Exchange’.
 Editorial commitments are a significant part of our research base contribution. During the current
 assessment period, Sociology colleagues co-edited New Genetics and Society; Social Studies of
 Science; Journal of Poverty and Social Justice; BMC Public Health; International Journal of Social
 Research Methodology; British Journal of Criminology; and the Journal of Cybersecurity. In the
 case of two journals – Qualitative Research and Sociology of Health and illness – we hosted the
 editorial office and sociology colleagues constituted the majority of both editorial teams.
 Underlining the disciplinary range of this submission, colleagues have served on the editorial
 boards of over 20 journals across the range of our research interests including: general sociology
 (e.g. The Sociological Review; Sociology), work and employment (e.g. New Technology, Work
 and Employment; Work Employment and Society), migration and race (e.g. la Revue Européenne
 des Migrations Internationales), criminology (e.g. Australia & New Zealand Journal of Criminology;
 Crime, Law, and Social Change), social policy (e.g. International Journal of Housing Policy; Social
 Policy Review), STS (e.g. BioSocieties) and social work (British Journal of Social Work; Child and
 Family Social Work; Journal of Children’s Services).
 As part of the School’s collaboration with SAGE promoting excellence in research methods,
 Atkinson and Delamont co-edited the Sage Research Methods Foundations: An Encyclopaedia,
 with strong involvement from sociology colleagues as editors and co-editors, as well as members
 of the editorial board and contributors: Dicks, Housley, R. Smith, Pomati, Lewis, Collins, Evans,
 Malcolm Williams, Matthew Williams, Stanley.
 Awards and distinctions crucially indicate recognition by the research base. Senior colleagues
 have been awarded the Best Paper Prize from the Foundation for International Studies on Social
 Security 2015 (Hick), the BSA/BBC 2015 Ethnography prize (Sampson), and were finalists for
 ESRC Celebrating Impact awards (Levi in 2017 and Robinson in 2020). In recognition of his
 outstanding research and service to the discipline, in 2019 Levi was awarded the Lifetime
 Achievement Award of both the American Society of Criminology’s Division of White-Collar and
 Corporate Crime, and the British Society of Criminology’s Tackling Economic Crime Awards and
 the Outstanding Achievement Award.
 In addition to these successes, early career colleagues’ research has been recognised via various
 awards. For example, Fitzgerald secured one of only five £100,000 Phillip Leverhulme Prizes in
 Sociology and Social Policy (2017), and Dimond was awarded the Learned Society of Wales
 Dillwyn Medal for outstanding early career research (2020).
 Keynotes and other invited presentations: Further evidence of our international links in this
 REF period can be seen in our invitations to speak at prestigious institutions, including Cheung’s
 and Chaney’s presentations at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Beijing; Henwood’s
 keynote at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University; Cheung’s
 presentations at the Institute of Social Science Research at the University of Queensland; Haifa
 University, Israel; and New York University; Hick’s invited talk at the Ministry for Social
 Development, New Zealand; Innes’ presentation at the US Dept. of Homeland Security,
 Washington DC; and keynotes at McGill University and the University of Amsterdam (Fitzgerald),
 KU Leuven (Greenland), Orebro University, Sweden (Groves), San Francisco State University
 (Stanley) and Peking University, China (Thomas).
 Engagement with funding bodies: Colleagues engage with the ESRC through sitting on Grants
 Assessment Panel B (Evans),or Chairing the AQM Panel 2015 - 2017 and the Methodological
 Innovations Commissioning panel 2015 (Malcolm Williams), or the ESRC peer review college (10
 colleagues) and UKRI more widely (e.g. Levi’s membership of the UKRI Partnership in Conflict,
 Crime & Security Research Strategic Advisory Group; or Henwood’s role on NERC’s Priorities
 Fund Clean Air Networks Expert Panel) as well as other funding panels such as the Wellcome
 Trust’s (Fitzgerald; Hedgecoe).
 Peer review: Colleagues have reviewed for funders such as European Research Council
 (Cheung); the Belgian Fund for Scientific Research (FNRS) and the Netherlands Organisation for
 Scientific Research (NWO) (Edwards); the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Canada (SSHRC) (Cheung; Groves); the US National Science Foundation (Groves); the United
 Nations Development Programme (Hick); NORDSFORSK (Nordic Research Council) (Housley);
 and Horizon 2020 (Levi, Hedgecoe).
 4.2 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Our local collaborations include other Schools at Cardiff: for example, CASCADE’s ‘What works
 centre for children's social care’ includes collaboration with colleagues in Medicine; and the
 recently awarded WISERD/Civil Society centre grant extension involves working with colleagues
 in Law, Geography and the Business School. Outwith our research centres, Henwood’s work
 leading the social science element of the FLEXIS project on energy systems research involves
 collaboration with colleagues in Psychology and Engineering, as well as Swansea University and
 the University of South Wales. These collaborations underpin the aim of SPARK, which will further
 enhance these interdisciplinary partnerships aligned to addressing global challenges (see section
 3).
 A key component of our international collaboration involves hosting visiting speakers as part of
 the School seminar series or the various seminars hosted by our research centres. Over the
 course of this REF cycle, in addition to UK colleagues – such as Linsey McGoey (Essex) or Debbie
 Epstein (Roehampton) – we have hosted international speakers including, amongst others, Ruth
 Milkman (The City University of New York); Katherine Ewing and Shamus Khan (Columbia
 University); Gary Alan Fine (Northwestern University); Jane Kenway (Monash University); Jamie
 Kucinskas (Hamilton College) and Phillip Vannini (Royal Roads University).
 As an essential part of our international collaboration, Sociology colleagues have drawn heavily
 on Cardiff University’s relationship with strategic partners, such our Brazilian Partner, UNICAMP.
 This has involved hosting visiting fellows (funded by British Academy Newton Advanced
 Fellowships) as well as activities such as the International workshop on multidimensional poverty
 in Latin America (January 2020), hosted by UNICAMP and co-organised by Nandy; or Sampson’s
 seminar series and book launch (August 2019), hosted by UNICAMP in conjunction with the
 Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) and Sao Carlos University (for a translation of
 International Seafarers and Transnationalism in the 21st Century published by UNICAMP Press).
 Cardiff University also hosted a two-day research symposium on ‘Global Inequalities and Social
 Science: Perspectives from Brazil and the United Kingdom’ (December 2018), aimed at
 developing a Brazil-Cardiff social science research network with UNICAMP, UFRJ, and the
 University of Brasilia. It resulted in:
 •   a successful International Credit Mobility Scheme application to the British Council (Cheung
     and T. Jones) funding exchanges between the unit and the three Brazilian partner universities;
 •   a R$300,000 award to the UNICAMP team (mentored by Nandy and Pomati) from the
     Brazilian Public Ministry of Labor (MPT) to expand their work on poverty nationwide, to 15
     cities across Brazil
 •   state funding (~£50k) from MPT to collaborate with colleagues at UNICAMP on a new project
     on social stratification in Brazil, applying the Consensual Approach to assess
     multidimensional poverty. This involves a postdoctoral researcher who, while a PhD student
     at University of São Paulo, visited Cardiff University for a year – demonstrating our ongoing
     international collaborations at early career level.
 Finally, collaborative activities are underpinned by research projects, such as Chaney’s work on
 civil society and the Rohingya crisis in Bangladesh. This started as an extension of work already
 being done in India and Bangladesh under a GCRF Network grant from the Academy of Medical
 Science in collaboration with Dr Sarbeswar Sahoo (Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi) and Dr
 Seuty Sabur (BRAC University, Dhaka, Bangladesh). It then developed, via HEFCW GCRF
 funding, into a collaboration with Professor Nasir Uddin of the University of Chittagong, resulting
 in a Cardiff University hosted conference attended by 250 delegates (August 2019) on citizenship
 rights and the Rohingya crisis, and a book to be published by Bloomsbury in 2021. Other examples
 of this approach can be seen in British Academy funded work with Gulu University, Uganda or
 Walter’s project exploring worker representation and participation in occupational health and


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 safety in collaboration with, amongst others, KU Leuven, Tallin University of Technology, Swedish
 Environmental Research Institute, and the University of Amsterdam.
 4.3 Engagement and interaction with key research users
 As one might expect given the size of our unit, colleagues adopt a number of different approaches
 to engagement. Routine meetings provide important interaction with key research users: for
 example, WISERD regularly meet with key strategic partners including; Welsh Government,
 National Assembly for Wales, Social Research Association, Wales Centre for International Affairs,
 Equality and Human Rights Commission, Wales TUC, HEFCW, Council for Wales Youth Voluntary
 Services, Office for National Statistics, and the WCVA. Such engagement results in a number of
 outcomes, such as the online digital archive of the voluntary sector in Wales created by WISERD
 in conjunction with the National Library for Wales and the WCVA, which is the basis of further data
 analysis and a future postdoctoral appointment that will be linked to the WCVA.
 We strongly value engagement through advisory groups. One approach is the use of external
 experts to advise projects and research centres, such as the ‘Practice and Policy Board’ which
 provides independent external review, advice and support to CASCADE, and includes
 representatives from policy, practice and service user stakeholder groups such as the Director of
 the National Adoption Service, a Head of Children and Family Services, HCRW and the Head of
 Adult & Children Services Inspection, Care Inspectorate Wales. Another example is WISERD’s
 Advisory Board, set up to support academic development and engagement with policy
 communities, which includes the Executive Director, Office of National Statistics and the Chief
 Economist, Welsh Government.
 Alternatively, Sociology colleagues serve on other organisations’ advisory groups. For example,
 our criminology colleagues have served:
    • as the first academic member of the College of Policing’s Professional Committee, and as
      a member of Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary Academic Advisory Group (M.
      Innes)
    • as a member of the UK Cabinet Office Counter-Fraud Cross Sector Advisory Board (Levi)
    • on the National Vulnerability and Violent Crime Programme Board (UK College of Policing)
      and Violence Against Women, Domestic Abuse and Sexual Violence Advisory Group
      (Welsh Government) (Robinson)
    • as an invited contributor to the Home Affairs Select Committee’s inquiry on Hate Crime and
      its Violent Consequences (2016) (Matthew Williams).
 Engagement also occurs through delivering research funded by external groups, taking advantage
 of research users’ pre-existing interest in outcomes (evidenced by the funding) to develop deeper
 ties and stronger pathways to impact. It includes Levi’s various grants around cybercrime such as
 projects funded by the City of London Corporation (2015), and the Home Office (2018-19; 2018-
 2020) or the collaboration between the HateLab project (Matthew Williams) and the corporate law
 firm Mishcon de Reya, which helps clients fight online abuse using high-profile reports on the topic
 of online hate speech, containing legal advice for victims, solicitors and police. Another example
 is Hurdley’s work with St. Fagan’s Museum of National History, using engagement sessions with
 People Living With Dementia to develop dementia-friendly design for museums. Further evidence
 of the value of engagement through research and the impact of our work on practice can be seen
 in CASCADE’s effectiveness at embedding ‘motivational interviewing’ in social work practice, first
 through collaboration with Islington Council and a £3.5M Innovation Programme, and then through
 a further roll out to four more local authorities and finally the allocation of a further £84 million to
 local authorities across England to roll-out the model.
 We also achieve engagement though training, seeking to engage with policy makers and
 practitioners through providing training courses and material, which in turn serve to distribute
 research outwards, and act as stepping stones to further collaboration. For example, Nandy’s work
 developing more reliable indicators of multidimensional poverty, disseminated via training
 programmes to national statistical office staff from Pacific Island Countries and Territories,
 including Fiji, Cook Islands, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, Kiribati, Tonga and Tuvalu. Training for
 the Uganda Bureau of Statistics on poverty research methods then led to a major UNICEF-funded


                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 report (the National Study on Multidimensional Child Poverty and Deprivation in Uganda). Further
 collaboration between national statistical agencies, advised by Nandy and Pomati, also led to co-
 authored book chapters, journal articles and international conference presentations, such as at
 the 2018 What Works for Africa’s Poorest Children? Conference in Kampala, Uganda, hosted by
 UNICEF, EPRC and the Government of Uganda.
 In terms of engagement through events, in addition to ‘one-off’ events we have found considerable
 value in offering series of events with key research users, to ensure as wide a reach as possible
 but also to allow deeper engagement over time. For example, CASCADE delivers ExChange –
 Wales’s social care research engagement network, which now provides events for over 3000
 practitioners and policy-makers each year. Another example is the Wales Housing Research
 Conference 2016, co-organised by WISERD, Shelter Cymru, and the Welsh Government, with 90
 delegates attending sessions on housing policy and devolution, health and wellbeing, the Welsh
 homelessness service, vulnerable groups, and the private rented sector. This was so successful
 that WISERD hosted again in 2019 and 2020.
 4.4. Wider contributions to society and engagement with communities and publics
 Sociology colleagues have presented their work to wider audiences via the radio, both in Wales
 (Radio Wales and Radio Cymru) and on UK national networks, such as regular contributions to
 Radio 4’s Thinking Allowed programme. In the case of Fitzgerald, this was via a BBC Arts/AHRC
 New Generation Thinkers award (2018) which gave the opportunity to develop and present several
 radio programmes focused on his work exploring the relationship between psychology and urban
 living. Similarly, building on her 2015-2016 work on Radio 4’s Late Night Woman’s Hour, and the
 Radio 4 documentary series Objects of Desire, Hurdley developed, wrote and presented two BBC
 Radio 4 documentaries – The Hidden History of the Corridor (September 2017) and The Hidden
 History of the Mantelpiece (March 2020) – showing how social life and societal change can be
 traced through various architectural forms.
 In terms of TV, work from Sociology colleagues appeared on BBC Wales Today, ITV Wales News,
 and S4C, with a particular highlight being findings from HateLab, underpinning two high-profile
 documentaries (BBC One Panorama Oct 2017 and ITV Exposure Mar 2019), attracting over six
 million viewers. Supported by the Cardiff University press team, research from sociology
 colleagues has featured in the UK and US press such as: LA Times, New York Post, The
 Guardian, The Times, The Financial Times, The Independent, Telegraph, and New Scientist.
 In terms of public presentations, colleagues have spoken at the National Eisteddfod and Hay
 Festival (where M. Innes’ talk on social media and terror events attracted over 300 audience
 members), contributed engagement events to the ESRC’s ‘Festival of Social Science’ weeks and
 organised 25 ‘SciScreen’ events since 2014, bringing together local experts and publics to discuss
 issues raised by contemporary cinema, such as the social aspects of dementia, and the limits and
 potentials of scientific advances. We have hosted the annual Julian Tudor Hart Lectures
 throughout this REF cycle, exploring issues around health inequalities (broadly defined) to
 audiences ranging from 80 to 200 people, including speakers such as Danny Dorling (2016) and
 Sir Michael Marmot (2017).
 4.5 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 A key aspect of our support for the sustainability of the discipline involves visiting fellows, with
 circa 30 fellows hosted over this REF cycle, including some funded by specific schemes such as
 British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowships, the Royal Society Newton International
 Fellowships, or the Erasmus+ programme. Visiting fellows have come from a wide range of
 institutions including New York University, Stanford University, University of Nantes, the Indian
 Institute of Technology (New Delhi), University of Gothenburg and Peking University.
 To further develop the sustainability of the discipline, Sociology colleagues have taken part in
 training and capacity building, most obviously through the WISERD centre, a core aspect of which
 focuses on provision of ECR training in the social sciences, both in Wales and more widely across
 the UK. WISERD organised over 38 training events (over 550 participants) in this REF cycle,
 ranging from technical methodological training (e.g. ‘Programming and coding in SPSS and Stata’;
 ‘Introduction to framework in NVivo’; or ‘Using Spatial Data from Social Media’) to more impact

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 orientated events (such as ‘Parliament for researchers’ or ‘How to write for a non-academic
 audience’).
 Sociology colleagues have also collaborated with professional associations to host conferences
 such as:
    • the 2019 Housing Studies Association Autumn Lecture (co-hosted by Hoolachan), a half-
      day event which attracted approximately 70 people
    • the 2016 Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues conference on ‘The Current
      Migration Crisis in Europe’
    • the second BSA conference on ‘Society, Environment and Human Health’ (2017)
    • the largest academic conference ever hosted by Cardiff University – the Annual Meeting of
      the European Society of Criminology (EuroCrim2017) – with 1,070 delegates flying in from
      the UK, Europe, North and South America, Australia, Africa and Asia for a four-day event
      making use of a number of university buildings as well as St. David’s Hall.
 We are confident of the intrinsic merit and public value of sociological research in its many forms
 and all its interdisciplinary connections. The unit strives for research excellence in academic
 careers, in collaboration and engagement, and in impact and disciplinary reach across the UK and
 internationally.




                                                                                            Page 17
