Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Heriot-Watt University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Sub-panel 8: Chemistry
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Strategy
 Chemistry’s strategy aligns with the University’s 7-year Shaping Tomorrow Together strategy, with
 its focus on Excelling in Research and Enterprise and ambition to embed ‘inspiration,
 collaboration, belonging and celebrating’ into everything the University does. Consequently, at the
 forefront of Chemistry’s academic endeavours has been to make an impact on society through
 our interdisciplinary approach and close collaboration with industry and business. As such, the
 major strategic goals for Chemistry since REF2014 have been to:
    a) strengthen our core activities in fundamental studies particularly in dynamics, catalysis and
       computational molecular modelling as exemplified by 3 new academic appointments in
       these areas;
    b) expand research activities that are interdisciplinary and bridge across traditional disciplines
       of chemistry, physics, biology and engineering building on strengths in the School. This is
       exemplified by 2 new academic appointments in this area and multiple interdisciplinary
       funded research projects e.g. CRITICAT, EuroPAH, GRACIOUS and PATROLS (see
       Section 3);
    c) apply existing and new fundamental research strengths into applied fields particularly
       those focussing on sustainability and environmental stewardship, renewable energy and
       the food and drink sector. This is exemplified by 6 new academics in these areas and the
       153% increase in industry funded research.
 The latter goal has also provided a platform for achieving our impact strategy of providing solutions
 that address real world challenges and opportunities faced by industry, businesses and
 government bodies.
 The inclusion of applied research in Chemistry’s strategic goals also directly align with our impact
 strategy goals to work with industry and business to address global grand challenges (see Horizon
 Proteins impact case study). These also map onto the University-wide strategy for increased
 research activity directly relevant to Chemistry in areas of sustainability, decarbonization, and
 healthcare. The increase in interdisciplinarity can be demonstrated by the make-up of staff in the
 current return from across four of the five Research Institutes within the School of Engineering
 and Physical Sciences (EPS). A measure of the increase in applied research can be gauged by
 the number of staff directly involved in collaborative activities with industry, charities and non-
 government agencies and government bodies, both within the UK and internationally (see Section
 4).

 Growth and Structure
 As part of the EPS long-term strategy, Chemistry has undergone an expansion from 30 staff in
 REF2014, to the current return with 41 staff (39.69 FTE). This significant expansion of Chemistry
 during the REF2021 assessment period is due in part to a strategic restructuring of the internal
 School structures in 2016 and again in 2019 coupled with investment in recruitment and facilities
                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by the University in this area. This strategic expansion has extended the existing subject focus so
 that it now includes and bridges across research in areas of mainstream chemistry, life sciences,
 materials science, chemical engineering, physics and food and drink sciences. To foster inter-
 disciplinary research that addresses our strategic goals and at the same time provides appropriate
 support structures including sharing facilities, staff are clustered within the following research
 groupings (new appointments indicated in italics):
    Molecular and Materials Chemistry – addresses fundamental and applied atomic,
     molecular and materials chemistry (Adams, Arrighi, Barker, Bos, Bucknall, Costen, Coxon,
     Dalgarno, Greaves, Lee, Macgregor, Mansell, McCoustra, McIntosh, McKendrick, Nahler,
     Ni, M Paterson, Townsend, Vilela, Welch, Yiu)
    Biological Chemistry – advances in the chemical sciences to address key challenges in
     the life and health sciences (Brown, Duncan, Johnston, Leslie, L Paterson, Melchels,
     Rickman, Schweizer, Stone, Willoughby, Yarwood)
    Nutritional Chemistry – food and drink chemistry addressing production and processing.
     (Euston, Hill, Holmes, Jenkins, Maskell, Pauley, Stewart, White)

 Highlights Since REF2014
 As a result of the implementation and achievement of the research and impact strategies, there
 have been some notable successes within Chemistry since REF2014. The highlights of which
 include:
    Recruitment and investment in 11 new academic staff since REF2014 - this in part has
     helped grow our cohort by 36.7% for this submission, with the largest increase seen in the
     Biological and Nutritional Chemistry groups (see Section 2).
    Increased the number of PhD students through both internal University - principally the HWU
     James Watt Scholarship scheme - and national schemes i.e. DTPs and CDTs. PhD
     graduations across the whole Chemistry unit have increased from the REF2014 figure of 9.7
     to 14 per annum in this REF submission period (see Section 2).
    Significant strategic investment by EPS in Chemistry infrastructure and facilities of £3.41M
     over the REF period (see Section 3).
    Co-leadership (Macgregor) and participation by multiple staff (14 staff from Chemistry) in
     the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Critical Resource Catalysis (CRITICAT)
     in partnership with Universities of Edinburgh and St Andrews.
    Development and leadership (Duncan, Rickman) of the Edinburgh Super-Resolution
     Imaging Consortium (ESRIC), a national imaging facility with a multidisciplinary approach to
     biological research through state-of-the-art microscopy techniques.
    Leadership of a major EPSRC Platform Grant in molecular chemical dynamics (Costen,
     Greaves, McKendrick, M Paterson, Townsend - £1.28M), which has in turn led to a
     recently funded HWU-led EPRSC Programme Grant to develop state-of-the-art facilities and
     understanding in molecular scattering dynamics (Costen, Greaves, McKendrick, M
     Paterson - £3.36M to HWU).
    Leadership roles (Stone) in two Horizon 2020 projects (GRACIOUS, €787K and PATROLS,
     €1.7M) developing classification and advanced safety assessment tools of nanomaterials.
    Co-investigator (L Paterson) in an interdisciplinary Programme Grant aiming to exploit laser
     techniques as medical therapies to address medically challenging issues (£6.13M total).

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Establishment and leadership (Bucknall) of the HWU led Consortium for Plastics and
     Sustainability (COMPASS) exploring applying fundamental research to help solve circular
     economy and global impact challenges associated with plastics. The collaboration began
     with staff from across HWU and now includes collaborators from Universities of Edinburgh,
     Strathclyde, Stirling, Cranfield, Sheffield and Manchester.
    Significant increase in applied research and engagement with industry, business,
     government and NGO since previous REF2014 particularly in the areas of materials,
     biomedicine and food and drink sectors. Examples of new collaborations or consultancy
     engagements from within the Molecular Materials and Chemistry group include Bos (e.g.
     Semimetrics), Bucknall (e.g. Zero Waste Scotland, Church and Dwight), Mansell (e.g.
     Sasol); within the Biological Chemistry group include Melchels (eg Tessenderlo Group),
     Stone (e.g. BASF, Unilever, Smart Separations, Byk), Schweizer (e.g. Coeliac UK) and
     within the Nutritional Chemistry group include Euston (e.g. Marlow Foods, Mars), Hill (e.g.
     Porth of Leith Distillery), Holmes (Holyrood Distillery), Maskell (Glenmorangie).
    Exploitation of applied research has also led to demonstratable commercial or policy
     changing impacts in number of areas. The most notable are: development of sustainable
     proteins from under-utilized by-products of food and drink industries (Willoughby);
     development of an extensive library of botanicals for gin flavouring that not only achieve
     desirable sensory impact, but are available for large scale production (Hill, Hughes, Pauley);
     informing regulatory and policy changes (i.e. changes of the directive for Carcinogens and
     Mutagen legislation for preventing occupational cancer (Cherrie) and changes to the
     regulator ECHA guidance for nanomaterials safety under REACH (Stone, Johnston). Full
     details given in the Impact statements.
    The Impact strategy has also helped promote entrepreneurship and innovation, which is
     supported by HWU’s Research Engagement team, and has had direct impact through a
     strong track record in successful spin-out companies by members of Chemistry, e.g. Horizon
     Proteins Ltd (Willoughby), Nandi Proteins Ltd (Campbell), NiTech Solutions Ltd (Ni) and
     Mironid Ltd (Adams). Although all were founded prior to the beginning of this REF period,
     staff have continued to apply their research outputs to further develop the activities within
     these spin out companies.

 Research Governance
 HWU complies with all ethical regulations for undertaking research whether performed on site or
 by project collaborators at other locations. Any project that includes work with live animals and
 human subjects requires either institutional ethical approval and/or a Home Office licence. Over
 the REF period Campbell, Nahler, Leslie, Maskell and Mechels have individually received
 institutional ethical approval for projects, including food and drink taste testing, blood tests to
 evaluate glucose and ketone levels, vaccine booster testing on cattle, and collecting and
 circulating tumour DNA from breast cancer and brain tumour patients. In addition, to institute
 ethical approval, Home Office project licences have been held by Leslie (to study genetically
 modified mice as models of cancer), Stone (for animal tests to assess hazards of nanomaterials)
 and Johnston (for zebra fish testing).




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Development
 The staffing strategy across Chemistry has been to maintain core strengths and capabilities and
 increase staff numbers in key areas. All the planned hires have been sought with expertise in
 interdisciplinarity across key areas and/or applied research focus. Specific target areas have been
 and continue to be in the medium-term planning, in areas that bridge biological chemistry and
 engineering and/or physics, organic chemistry with applied research activities in catalysis, and
 fundamental/theoretical chemistry with focus in catalysis and/or materials.
 Recruitment
 In this REF period we have made significant advances to achieving our 2014 objective of
 increasing the number of staff within Chemistry, despite some losses. Since the last REF
 submission, the following staff have left HWU: Bryce, Campbell, Cherie, John and Keane (all
 through planned retirement), Bebbington (moved to Montclair State University, USA), Bock
 (moved to the health sector in Germany), Lloyd (moved to Univ. of Lincoln) and Speers (moved to
 Dalhousie Univ., Canada).
 Over the REF period 11 new staff have been hired who align with the staffing strategic goals.
 Many of the new staff come from major international laboratories in their respective fields or
 directly from industry, the latter to address the strategic goals of applied research. Hires into the
 Molecular and Materials Chemistry group have been: Barker (previously PDRA at HWU),
 Bucknall (from Georgia Institute of Technology, hired as Chair of Materials Chemistry) and Coxon
 (from Liverpool John Moores Univ.); into the Biological Chemistry group have been: Brown
 (previously PDRA at HWU), Melchels (from UMC Utrecht) and Yarwood (Univ. of Glasgow); and
 into the Nutritional Chemistry group have been Holmes (from Molson Coors Beverage Company),
 Jenkins (from Nottingham Univ.), Maskell (previously PDRA at HWU), Pauley (from Bombay
 Sapphire Distillery) and White (previously PDRA at HWU).
 Future Hiring
 As part of Chemistry’s future strategy, the Molecular and Materials Chemistry group has an open
 vacancy for a chair in synthetic chemistry. It also has permission to hire up to 3 additional
 assistant/associate professor level staff with expertise in areas of experimental synthetic chemistry
 and computational chemistry with a focus on applied catalysis and/or medicinal chemistry, to help
 develop the strategic areas of sustainability and/or healthcare. In addition, the Biological
 Chemistry group also have permission to hire 2 additional staff in areas that bridge biological
 chemistry and physics and/or engineering. Five of the six positions are on hold due to Covid-19
 but remain strategic goals for the immediate future.
 Staff Support and Development
 Each new academic received a start-up package that included dedicated modern laboratory space
 (either refurbished labs or new lab space totalling £624k), PhD student provision, a budget to
 (re)establish their research activities (totalling £461k), as well as reduced teaching loads in their
 first year to accelerate research activities. All new staff members have been inducted through a
 dedicated ‘new hire’ process that includes an immersive Institute specific induction process,
 provision of a mentor over the first 3 years in addition to University and School level training
 workshops, seminars and longer-term courses including the Scottish Crucible programme and
 Heriot-Watt Research Futures Academy. Training courses provide support for all levels of

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expertise from early career researchers right through to senior academics. Courses are open to
 all University staff.
 Research activity across the University is regularly monitored with an annual Performance and
 Development Review (PDR). The PDR, completed by all staff, reviews the previous period’s
 performance and includes a forward job plan that both ensures personal research targets, as well
 as career development and training opportunities, are being met. It also provides a mechanism to
 support research activities and increase skills both directly and indirectly related to the research
 activities, including external funding, publications, researcher supervision and impact. The PDR
 also allows strategic decisions to be taken by the Institute level and School level heads to
 maximise research opportunities and collaborations whilst balancing administrative and teaching
 loads for individuals.
 Over the REF period, personal and professional development activities, resources, opportunities
 and achievements offered through the Research Futures Academy have been widely used by the
 Chemistry staff. Staff within Chemistry have all attended the required training courses including
 those related to ethics and PhD/PDRA supervision, which reflects the importance the University
 places on ethics and diversity (see below) as well as PGR supervision. However, all staff have
 attended more than the minimum required courses, including staff mentoring, time management,
 impact through public engagement, leading resilient teams, and mental health awareness training
 for managers, among many others. In addition to these short, focussed training and development
 courses, 3 staff (Melchels: 2016, Mansell: 2014, Nahler: 2014) from Chemistry have attended
 the annual intensive six-day Scottish Crucible training programme aimed to help researchers think
 differently, inspire them, and discover skills and attitudes likely to make their research more
 innovative. Direct outputs of this programme have been the development of a schools-level project
 based around 3D printing, a new collaborative research project exploring novel Ni catalysts for
 polymerisation, and a personal Fellowship application to EPSRC.
 In addition, funding for career development including pump-priming research collaborations,
 supporting conference travel, development of new research directions, and research opportunities
 has been competitively won from the Scottish Funding Council through Research Pools;
 ScotChem (Chemistry), SUPA (Physics) and SULSA (Life Sciences). The Pools’ Postgraduate
 and Early Career Researcher Exchanges (PECRE) funds have been used by several early career
 staff (MacIntosh, Mansell, Vilela) as well as 7 research fellows from various research groups for
 extended research exchanges to 14 international research labs in USA, Canada, Netherlands,
 Switzerland, Portugal, Germany, France and Hong Kong. All have resulted in at least one joint
 paper in leading journals incl. J. Am. Chem. Soc. and Nature Chem. In addition, Bucknall and
 Vilela have benefitted from Pools Engagement in European Research (PEER) funds to aid an EU
 funding proposal application.
 The staff PDR process also forms the basis for initiating internal promotions, which during the REF
 period includes:
     Promoted to Professor: Costen (2016), Euston (2017), Leslie (2017) and Townsend
      (2020)
     Promoted to Associate Professor (Reader): Bos (2016), Kraft (2018), Melchels (2018),
      Maskell (2019) and Townsend (2013).
 Members of Chemistry make a strong contribution to the running of the University by holding key
 leadership and strategic roles:


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     M Paterson is the current Head of Institute of Chemical Sciences (ICS), previously held by
      McKendrick and Macgregor.
     Stone is current head of Institute of Biological Chemistry, Biophysics and Bioengineering
      (IBBB), sits on the HWU Strategy Implementation Group and serves as an elected member
      of the HWU Senate (currently serving second term), previously held by Duncan.
     Maskell is Director of the International Centre for Brewing and Distilling (ICBD).
     Leslie is Director of Research for EPS, a role previously held by Macgregor.
     M Paterson, Stone and Leslie sit on the EPS Senior Management Group, positions
      previously held by McKendrick, Duncan and Macgregor.
     Duncan was Senior Academic Lead for Strategy for Heriot-Watt University and sat on the
      Pan-University Strategy Steering and Implementation group prior to secondment to the
      UKRI.

 PGR Students
 Chemistry attracts postgraduate researchers, postdoctoral research associates and eminent
 researchers from across the world. A total of 98 PhD students who were supervised by Chemistry
 staff have completed and submitted their thesis during the REF period with an average completion
 rate of 14 per year. The total number of PhD students who graduated during the current REF
 period has increased by 102% with the average number graduating per year increasing by 44%
 (cf. REF2014). These students have been funded via the CRITICAT CDT, standard EPSRC DTP
 studentships, HWU’s fully funded James-Watt Scholarship (JWS) scheme, CASE studentships
 (i.e. AstraZeneca and GSK), European Commission (FP7) funding and direct sponsorship from
 industry (i.e. Byk).
 HWU is a founder member of the EPSRC CDT in Critical Resource Catalysis (CRITICAT) run
 jointly with the Universities of Edinburgh and St. Andrews. Students undertake an initial 6-month
 training period to develop key scientific and transferable skills followed by a 42-month PhD
 research project. The first of five annual PhD cohorts started in September 2014 and 17 students
 have started their PhDs under supervision with Chemistry at HWU. CRITICAT has fostered
 collaborative projects between the three participating institutions, as well as joint projects between
 chemistry and engineering at HWU e.g. Andresen (UoA12)/Mansell, McIntosh/Garcia (UoA12),
 and Yiu/McCoustra. The further sustainability of CRITICAT is seen in the EaSI-CAT initiative
 (from Sept 2019) in which industry funding provides an additional 6 months stipend to facilitate
 industrial placements and industry-led group projects.

 Equality and Diversity
 Focused action plans overseen by senior staff ensures the University’s equality and diversity
 activities go beyond our legal requirements and Athena Swan commitments, ensuring that
 everyone from across the University community understands how they contribute to a culture of
 ‘Inclusion for All’. This requires all staff, researchers and PhD students in Chemistry to complete
 the basic equality and diversity awareness training. Staff also have the option to extend the training
 with other workshops that include diversity in the workplace, diversity in learning and teaching and
 equality analysis, unconscious bias, equality essentials, equality impact assessment and cultural
 awareness training, all of which are offered through the University’s Research Futures Academy.
 An example of the effect this is having on gender balance is indicated by the number and variety
 of roles undertaken by women in Chemistry, including leadership roles (Stone and Maskell – see
                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 above), Institute UG Discipline Heads in Chemistry and Biology (Howarth and Maskell,
 respectively – previously held by Arrighi and Johnston, respectively), Director of Nanosafety
 Research Group (Johnston) and IBBB Seminar series lead (L Paterson). In addition, PDRA
 representatives on School safety committee and elected Chairs of Postgraduate Societies (for ICS
 and IBBB) are currently all women. The latter Societies are student-led and control their own
 budget (from respective Institutes) to support professional and social events they organise,
 including seminars from guest speakers, outreach events such as schools and public science
 festivals, and activities to help foster networking.
 In 2020, Heriot-Watt made a successful submission to renew our Athena Swan Bronze Charter
 Award; this has been conferred until 2026 reinforcing our ambition to put EDI at the heart of our
 future strategy. In addition to Heriot-Watt University award, a successful EPS Bronze application
 (awarded 2015 and renewed 2020) was led by the school-wide Self-Assessment Team (SAT) that
 included several Chemistry members (Campbell, Duncan, Johnston, Mansell, McIntosh and
 Melchels). The award led to a significant investment in Early Career Researcher (ECR) career
 development including a new mentoring scheme, specifically for PDRAs pairing mentees with
 experienced academics. In a notable example of this within the Molecular and Materials Chemistry
 grouping, Haddow was awarded a Daphne-Jackson fellowship (2018-20) and was mentored by
 Macgregor. Commitments under Athena SWAN related to work/life balances has also allowed
 Stone to work on a 0.8 FTE appointment whilst remaining a Head of Research Institute and Bos,
 Lloyd (before leaving HWU), Greaves, McIntosh, M Paterson and Rickman to take paternity
 leave during the REF period.
 To help improve gender balance and diversity, adverts for new hires require a statement
 encouraging women and minorities to apply and candidates who have a disability and/or have
 served in the Armed Forces must be interviewed if minimum selection criteria are met. A gender
 balanced interview panel who have all undertaken unconscious bias training is also mandatory.
 Our recruitment over the REF period (including White and Maskell) has brought the overall
 percentage of female staff in Chemistry to 21% (cf. 10% in REF2014), with 42% of hires of PDRAs
 being women. The percentage of female PhD students for each academic year has varied
 between 40 and 45%, which is above the national average for Chemistry. The gender balance
 figures for PDRA and PhD students is very encouraging, and the future recruitment strategy for
 Chemistry staff will prioritise improving the gender balance.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Total HESA research income for Chemistry during this assessment period has increased overall
 by 52% (not including Research Councils income-in-kind) compared to REF2014. Although
 modest increases in income have been obtained from UK-based research funding agencies
 (21%), much more significant increases have been made in funding from UK-based charitable
 sources (105%), EU sources (132%) and UK and non-EU industry (153%). The increase in
 industrial funding clearly demonstrates the success in achieving Chemistry’s strategy to expand
 applied research. Additionally, an increase of 139% of in-kind income from UKRI Research
 Councils have been received by Arrighi, Bucknall, Bos, Euston, Greaves, Macgregor,
 McCoustra and Vilela for use of the National facilities, including ISIS Neutron facilities, Diamond
 Light Source as well as ARCHER and CIRRUS Supercomputers. Use of these facilities exploiting
 neutron diffraction, small angle scattering, quasi- and inelastic scattering and reflectivity, as well
                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as XANES, has been critical to the increased research activities in areas including alternative
 energy, catalysis, polymer composites and rubber recycling.
 Notable Funded Projects
 Molecular and Materials Chemistry
    Based on earlier EPSRC (Costen, Greaves and McKendrick, £808k) and Leverhulme
     Trust (M Paterson, £142k) funding and other joint grants in the previous REF period, led to
     the award in 2016 of the EPSRC Platform grant (‘Dynamical Chemical Processes’, Costen,
     Greaves, McKendrick, M Paterson, Townsend, £1.28M). This has enabled high risk proof-
     of-concept studies in both experiment and theory, supported 7 different PDRAs, and resulted
     in >35 peer reviewed publications, including 3 in Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. and 2 in Nature
     Chemistry. It has also resulted in additional funding from standard mode EPSRC grants:
     novel non-linear optical fibre sources for ultrafast time-resolved molecular dynamics (M
     Paterson, Townsend and Travers (HWU, UoA 9) (£589k)), novel use of reactive scattering
     at ionic liquid surfaces (Costen, McKendrick, Bruce and Slattery (York), Minton (MSU,
     USA) and Wasserscheid (Friedrich-Alexander University, Germany) (£680k)) and also both
     EPSRC (£520k) and Leverhulme Trust (£192k) funded projects to develop new electronic
     structure and quantum dynamical methodologies for modelling photodynamical processes
     (M Paterson, Kirrander (Edinburgh)) as part of a new Quantum Molecular Dynamics
     Edinburgh research consortium.
    Building on the strengths supported by the Platform grant, Costen, Greaves, McKendrick
     and M Paterson have started (June 2020) an EPSRC Programme grant (‘New Directions in
     Molecular Scattering’, £3.36M to HWU) with the University of Oxford. This project will extend
     state-of-the-art experiment and theory to challenging and previously intractable problems
     relevant to the atmospheric, combustion and plasma science. The project will fund 12
     individual PDRAs and through leveraging postgraduate funding ca. 15 PhD students will be
     trained, in addition to ca. 20 final year Masters project students.
    Co-directed by Macgregor, members of the Molecular and Materials Chemistry group
     (Barker, Bos, Bucknall, Dalgarno, Lee, Mansell, McCoustra, McIntosh, Ni, M Paterson,
     Vilela, Welch, Yu) have collectively been involved in the EPSRC CDT in Critical Resource
     Catalysis (CRITICAT) (£4.33M from EPSRC, matched by the partner universities (HWU, St
     Andrews, Edinburgh) and with £300k direct support from Industry (AstraZeneca, Syngenta
     and Sasol).
    Macgregor has attracted £1.03M for computational modelling in collaboration with Weller
     (Oxford/York, as part of the latter’s £1.9M EPSRC fellowship exploring metal-sigma-
     interactions) and with Whittlesey (Bath) on heterobimetallic chemistry. These projects have
     resulted in 28 papers (incl. 8 in J. Am. Chem. Soc. and 5 in Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.).
    Bucknall has secured over £1.2 M of funding from a range of UK-based multinational
     industries (including Iron Ocean, Weir, TechnipFMC, MacTaggart Scott and Recircle) in
     various areas of applied research. An example of the applied research for Iron Ocean
     (£214k) has been the development of a prototype offshore survival garment to prevent death
     from cold water immersion. This garment won both the SPE Offshore Achievement Award
     for HSE Innovation in 2019 as well as the Corporate Vision Oil and Gas Award for Best
     Specialist Protective Clothing Manufacturer in 2020.
    McCoustra and M Paterson are part of the Horizon 2020 funded European Training
     Network EuroPAH (HWU portion - £317k), coordinated by Aarhus University (Denmark) with

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Universities of Leiden, Paul Sabatier (Tolouse), Westfälische Wilhelms (Münster), Cologne,
      Radboud (Nijmegen), Milan, Liverpool and Bristol plus a number of non-academic partners
      including Graphic Science Ltd. The scientific focus of EuroPAH is to understand the role and
      impact of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in the universe.
    McCoustra is part of a multinational team (IceAge) awarded 31 hours of observational time
     under the Director’s Discretionary Early Release scheme on the James Webb Space
     Telescope (JWST) to explore chemical evolution of ices during star formation.
    McIntosh was awarded a New Investigator award from EPSRC (£307k, 2019) looking into
     using discrete polymetallic complexes as soluble models of heterogeneous catalysts. The
     grant funded a 2-year PDRA, with a DTP-funded PhD student working on a related project.
     To date the work has resulted in conference presentation at RSC Coordination and
     Organometallic Chemistry Discussion Group, (Dublin, Dec 2019) and a paper in Chem. Eur.
     J. (2020).
    Support from ScotChem research pool has provided travel and subsistence for early career
     staff development and EU-wide proposal development through PECRE and PEER funding
     (£41.2k), respectively. One notable success from PECRE funds resulted from the study visit
     by Purcell (PDRA) to Minton at Montana State University in 2014. The subsequent on-going
     collaboration with Costen and McKendrick has led so far to 8 papers incl. in J. Phys. Chem.
     C and Langmuir, and has also directly contributed to 2 recently awarded EPSRC grants
     (totalling £6.56M) including a Programme Grant. Another notable success was the visits to
     Hong Kong University by Tobin (PDRA) and Vilela resulting in 8 papers incl. in J. Mater.
     Chem. A and Chem. Soc. Rev. and a recent joint grant application.
 Biological Chemistry
    Stone is involved in 3 four-year Horizon 2020 projects (a) GRACIOUS (Stone is coordinator,
     €787K) is developing a highly innovative science-based Framework to enable practical
     application of grouping, leading to read-across and classification of nanomaterials and
     nanoforms, (b) PATROLS (€1.7M) will deliver advanced and realistic tools and methods for
     nanomaterial safety assessment, and (c) BIORIMA (€242k) which is developing a risk
     management framework for medical applications of nanomaterials.
    Duncan and Rickman were part of the co-investigator team on a €2.5M ERC award. This
     award was focussed on the development of novel TCSPC SPAD arrays and their application
     in the study of the biochemical organisation and interactions of proteins in cellular systems.
     This project was delivered by an interdisciplinary team comprising electrical engineers,
     microchip designers, optical physicists and cell and biochemical researchers (PI Robert
     Hamilton, University of Edinburgh), with €1.1M spend in Heriot-Watt between 2014-19.
    Duncan was Coordinator of the EU-funded CATACURE project (€1.1M, 2016-19) and was
     part of the £9.8M EPSRC Inter-Disciplinary Research Centre ‘Proteus’; both projects
     developed non-invasive photonic theranostics – a personalised approach to cancer
     combining therapy and diagnostics.
    Melchels was awarded a New Investigator grant from BBSRC in 2019 (£563K) for ‘SAVE:
     Single-Administration Vaccine Enhancement’ to develop novel burst-release scaffolds for
     vaccine delivery. Melchels has also received an additional total of £335k from EPSRC,
     Melville trust, Medical Research Scotland and Royal Society to develop 3D printing for
     biopolymers and in vitro models for pancreatic cancer and brain tumours.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Rickman received funding from the Wellcome Trust in 2019 (£500k HWU portion). This
     award is focussed on the investigation of the Type VI secretion system and its role in
     bacterial pathogenicity of fungal cells. The findings from this project will have applications in
     treating human fungal infections and antimicrobial resistance. This project is an international
     collaboration with Universities of Dundee, Edinburgh, Newcastle, Exeter and Berlin.
 Nutritional Chemistry
    Euston is project coordinator of the Horizon 2020 project MARISURF (€1.2M to HWU)
     between 5 universities and 8 companies in 5 European countries to discover, isolate and
     scale up fermentation of microbial biosurfactants and bioemulsifiers.
    Euston has had 2 KTP projects, one with Macphie of Glenbervie (£158,257) that explored
     the use of serpin barley protein Z extracted from whisky pot ale as an egg replacer in baked
     goods; and the second with Nandi Proteins (£109,010) developed a fluorescence based on
     line sensor coupled with an agent-based Bayesian logic model to allow prediction of
     processing conditions to obtain proteins with required functionality.
    Euston, Campbell & Stewart have secured over £1.06M from a BBSRC funded project and
     Innovate UK for industry focused projects on related projects that explored formation of
     oleogels in triglyceride oils as replacements for saturated fats, as well as those derived from
     food processing waste streams including from sausage casing manufacturing and also
     rapeseed oil press cake.
    Euston has used 500k core hours on CIRRUS and has been awarded 21600 kAU on Archer
     through the HECBIOSIM EPSRC project, to support both the MARISURF (modelling surface
     behaviour of glycolipid biosurfactants) and BBSRC (modelling oleogel formation) projects.
    Hill has secured £380.2k through combined direct industry support and Innovation and
     Interface Food and Drink vouchers for product development (e.g. Isle of Harris Distillery,
     Borders Distillery, Tipplebox, Verdant Spirits and Highland Vodka) and feasibility studies
     (e.g. Scottish Botanicals, Red Squirrel Brands) as well as longer term studies for The Three
     Stills Ltd and Nikka Distilling Company.
    Hill and Maskell have secured a KTP project (£152k) with Muckle Brig Ltd to identify new
     yeast strains and develop and embed optimal propagation, fermentation and sensory
     analysis methods suitable to produce unique whisky.
    Maskell has secured a KTP project (£158k) with St Andrews Brewing Company to develop
     and apply quality systems in a small-scale brewery for production and innovation.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 HWU have invested heavily in shared facilities and development of infrastructure within the
 chemistry assessment unit, with a total of £3.41M internal investment with additional external
 funding supporting equipment purchases. The equipment is critical to underpin the research
 across Chemistry.
 New Infrastructure and Upgrades
 Molecular and Materials Chemistry
    Single Crystal (SCXRD) and Powder X-ray Diffraction (PXRD) equipment: The aging
     SCXRD was replaced for a state-of-the-art dual X-ray source (Cu and Mo) system (Bruker
     D8 Venture) which is the first of its king to be installed in the UK (HWU contribution £108.7k,
     2019). The new SCXRD has provided greater support of industry activities with a contract
                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      with Cambrex Corporation to supply their molecular structural analysis needs. The PXRD
      system (Bruker D8 Advance) has been updated via £95.5k funding from the University to
      maintain its capability with new X-ray tube, generator and water chiller. In addition, £305k
      EPSRC funding has been awarded for purchasing a Malvern-Panalytical Empyrean
      instrument to complement our PXRD capabilities and develop new areas of research in
      strategic areas.
    Liquid chromatograph mass spectrometer facility: Shimadzu (Nexera LC-2040C 3D UHPLC
     with LCMS-2020 mass detector) (£134.6k, EPSRC Equipment grant). Integrated analytical
     Ultra High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (uHPLC) Instrument with Dual Ionisation
     Single Quadrupole Mass Spectrometry Detector (MS). Sciex API 3000 Triple Quadrupole
     MS system with HPLC front-end (provided by Charles Rivers Lab). This equipment
     significantly expands the research capabilities of Chemistry and will promote research in
     strategically important fields, particularly in healthcare.
    Peptide Synthesis Facility (~£80k via Coxon start-up): Facility consists of a CEM Liberty
     Blue microwave-assisted automated single channel peptide synthesiser, Teledyne EZ Prep
     preparative HPLC, Agilent 1100 series analytical HPLC with autosampler and variable
     wavelength detector, Lablyo freeze drier and heated shaking platforms for manual peptide
     chemistry production on a 1 – 1000 mg scale. This will interface with the mass spec. facility
     for peptide identification and characterisation activities. This facility will be able to provide
     designed peptides for research purposes to colleagues within HWU as well as providing a
     route to external activities.
    Upgrade to NMR facilities: Acquisition of a HRMAS probe (£12.6k, 2014) expanded the
     capability to work with the full range of materials from powdered solids to mobile liquids
     making the system unique in Scotland. A ‘SampleCase’ autosampler (£21.5k, 2016) has
     been added to increase sample throughput and update to a more robust instrumentation
     platform. Update to a AVIIIHD console (£162k (2018)) and installation of advanced software
     (TopSpin 3.6) enables a greater range of experiments, rapid 2D acquisition through NUS
     (non-uniform sampling), superior quality of data from new sequences (e.g PureShift, multiple
     solvent suppression) and better temperature regulation.
    Scottish High-Field NMR Centre (SFC): A successful EPSRC award (£1.5M) enabled an
     upgrade of 800MHz spectrometer to be housed at the University of Edinburgh to which HWU
     researchers have open access. Additional investment from ScotCHEM and SULSA (£86k)
     has funded NMR-scientific meetings, a postgraduate NMR training workshop and facilitated
     collaborative use of NMR by Scottish scientists.
    Benchtop NMRs: A Nanalysis NMReady 60 Spectrometer (£30.5k, 2018) and an Oxford
     Instruments X-Pulse Multinuclear NMR Spectrometer (£73.2k, 2020) benchtop research
     NMRs have been purchased. Their portability provides options for in-situ studies such as
     frequently being incorporated into flow reactors/systems for in-line monitoring by NMR.
 Biological Chemistry
    The FlexBio open-access pilot scale bioprocessing facility opened in 2015 with funding from
     the Industrial Bioprocessing Innovation Centre (IBioIC - £1.13M) and HWU internal support
     (£1.01M). The facility provides scale-up facilities of 15 - 100 litres combined with a highly
     flexible, integrated approach to total process development on a single site.
    The University has invested significantly in Biological Chemistry in the current REF period;
     £0.7M was spent on refurbishing laboratories in 2014/15 to provide an entire floor of state-

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      of-the-art tissue culture and laboratory space specifically for new staff all based within
      Chemistry.
    Vitrocell dry powder cloud generator (funded by PISC (Peta International Science
     Consortium) for equipment (Brown, £90k)) for exposing 3D lung cell cultures to aerosols for
     evaluating inhalation toxicology.
 Nutritional Chemistry
    Upgrade to distillery and to brewery facilities including two dual purpose fermentation
     vessels (~£250k), as well as upgrade to control system and boiler (~£18k) for brewery,
     installation of spirit safe, extraction system for distillery and installation of new vacuum still
     (total ~£27.5k)
 Existing Facilities
 In addition to individual research group equipment and those detailed in ‘New infrastructure and
 Upgrades’ above, Chemistry staff have access to a wide range of open-access shared user
 facilities. These facilities are managed by dedicated technical staff and overseen by Chemistry
 management groups. The most significant of these facilities include:
 Molecular and Materials Chemistry
    Solution and solid-state NMR facilities: Bruker AVIII400 Spectrometer with BB(F)O probe,
     Bruker AVIII400 Spectrometer with BB(F)O and solid-state CPMAS and HRMAS probes,
     Bruker AVIIIHD Spectrometer with BB(F)O probe.
    A suite of IR equipment including two Nicolet iS5 FTIR spectrometers and a PerkinElmer
     Spectrum 100 FTIR spectrometer
    Solvent purification system: MBRAUN SPS5 system providing 5 high purity common
     solvents (THF, toluene, DCM petroleum ether, acetonitrile) in high volumes.
    Elemental Analyzer: EAI CE440 Elemental Analyzer of C, H, N and S of all organic
     compounds.
 Biological Chemistry
    Edinburgh Super-Resolution Imaging Consortium (ESRIC): A HWU-Univ. of Edinburgh joint
     open-access facility for advanced super-resolution microscopes. Located at HWU are an
     Olympus IX81 Motorised TIRF microscope for single molecule localisation microscopy
     (PALM, dSTORM), a Leica SP5 SMD scanning confocal microscope for TCSPC FLIM and
     FCS and a Leica SP8 3X dual STED microscope for stimulated emission depletion
     microscopy. The facility includes dedicated advanced analysis software and data storage
     and is operated by a full-time manager. Although started in the previous REF period,
     additional funding from the Wellcome Trust (PI Duncan, £778K, 2018-23) has helped extend
     its activities. The ESRIC was recognised as the Times Higher STEM Research Project of
     the Year 2018.
    Tissue Culture Facility: A core facility for internal and external users to provide equipment
     and expertise for the culturing of mammalian cells and human materials up to containment
     level 2 and GM Class 2 This facility has a part time manager.
    Wet Laboratory Facility: A core facility for internal users to provide large equipment for
     research laboratories. All equipment is fully serviced and includes water systems, autoclave
     capabilities, prokaryotic culturing, centrifugation and cryogenic storage. This facility has a
     part time manager.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nutritional Chemistry
    A 2-hectolitre experimental plant for beer or spirit production includes a mash tun, cereal
     cooker, lauter tun/infusion mash tun, and a mash filter. These feed in to three brewing
     vessels which can be used for the production of ale or lager wort, and malt or grain distillers’
     wash, from a variety of raw materials. Green beer produced can be cask matured, and there
     are also facilities for filtration together with a bright beer tank and equipment for bottling.
    A pilot distillery consisting of a 25-litre wash still and an 18-litre spirit still with two alternative
     neck designs, a nine-plate bubble cap column and a water-cooled condenser column.
    Micromaltings for production of less than 200-litre brew-length, including maltings, mash-
     baths, and milling machines.
    A dedicated analytical laboratory for testing products from brewing and distilling processes
     that includes HPLC-UV/RID/RF; HS-GC-FID/ECD and SPME-GC-MS and can perform
     analysis for higher alcohols, vicinal diketones, carbohydrates, phenols, esters, cask extracts,
     and hop and gin volatiles.
    Facilities aimed primarily at supporting food and drink research includes a Zwick Roell
     texture analyser, Kibron Ezi-Pi surface tensiometer for measuring interfacial and surface
     tension, Malvern Mastersizer MS200 laser diffraction particle sizer, AktaPurifier
     (chromatographic separation (IEX, HIC, RP, SEC) of proteins, polysaccharides and nucleic
     acids), two stage valve high pressure homogenizer (APV), Thermo Fisher dual beam
     scanning UV/VIS spectrophotometer, Lyotrap small freeze drier, Edwards Super Modulyo
     large scale freeze drier, IKA RV 10 auto pro V rotary evaporator and a Leica TCS2 confocal
     and a number of various Zeiss optical microscopes.
 Shared Facilities
 Additional shared facilities are available to all researchers within HWU, those used by Chemistry
 in the REF period include:
    Avery Denison 500kN (static) and 3000kN (compression) testing rigs, Instron 100kN (static)
     and 500kN (dynamic) uniaxial testers.
    Environmental scanning electron microscope (ESEM), FEI Quanta 3D FEG ion beam
     microscope and Atomic Force Microscope (AFM)
    Malvern Kinexus controlled stress/strain rheometer, with cone and plate and cylinder
     accessories, and a bicone and Du-Nuoy ring for interfacial rheology.

 University Underpinning Support
 In terms of research support for academics the university has a centralised research and business
 development professional support team, the Research Engagement Directorate (RED). Although
 centralised, this unit works directly with individual researchers and strategies for UoAs. The
 individual teams in RED are listed below with examples of how they have worked with Chemistry
 researchers:
    Research Development - provides specialist support for academic staff seeking to win
     research funding. Facilitating all funding activity including e.g. running mock panels for
     successful major bids (e.g. McKendrick’s EPSRC Programme Grant, ‘New Directions in
     Molecular Scattering’ in 2020).



                                                                                                    Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Business Development – works with academics to increase research income from industry
      and business (e.g. facilitating KTP submissions such as Recyclatech Limited and
      MacTaggart Scott with Bucknall).
     Research Grants Office – assists academics with their post-award management of their
      externally funded research grants and contracts.
     Policy, Strategy & Impact – ensuring and supporting research policies. The unit supports
      approaches to impact and includes the award-winning Public Engagement Team (e.g.
      facilitating activities at science festivals such as Duncan, ‘Science, Jellyfish, Science & Art’,
      Edinburgh International Science Festival 2016).
     Legal Services – provides essential advice on contract and IP arrangement (e.g. provided
      effective support for establishing contractual relationships with Adams and Mironid,
      assisting substantial contract renewal in 2020).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Chemistry staff are active in shaping policy, funding and strategy within the wider scientific
 community as exemplified by the following examples:

 Prizes and Fellowships
 Chemistry staff have been awarded a number of prestigious fellowships and prizes since REF
 2014 including: Bos was awarded an International Academic Fellowship from the Leverhulme
 Trust (2020); Dalgarno won the RSC Sir Edward Frankland Fellowship (2015) for ‘‘work in
 supramolecular coordination chemistry’ and was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry
 (2015); Duncan won the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Senior Public Engagement Medal
 (2018) for ‘passionate and enormously productive advocacy for public engagement in Scotland,
 the UK and internationally’; Hill was the winner of the Multiparty Collaboration Award at the
 Interface Scottish Knowledge Exchange Awards 2019; Jenkins was awarded a Barry Axcell
 Fellowship (2015-18); Leslie was elected as Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology (FRSB) (2016);
 Macgregor won the RSC Ludwig Mond Award (2019) for ‘computational studies of bond
 functionalization and activation’; Maskell was made an Honorary Liveryman of the Worshipful
 Company of Brewers (2018) and Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Distillers (2019);
 McKendrick won the RSC Chemical Dynamics Prize for ‘outstanding innovative research on the
 dynamics of molecules, including spectroscopy, kinetics or molecular interactions in the gas, liquid
 or solid phase’ (2015); Melchels won the Mid-career Investigator Award from the International
 Society of Biofabrication (2019) and the Dr Patrick Neill Medal for ECRs in the Life Sciences from
 the Royal Society of Edinburgh (2019); Schweizer was elected as Fellow of the Royal Society of
 Biology (FRSB) (2020); Stone was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 2015
 and was awarded the RSC Toxicology Award for ‘contributions of chemical science to
 occupational and environmental toxicology’.

 Collaborations
 Staff in Chemistry have extensive active collaborations with groups at different universities and
 research organizations and industry both in the UK (>44 groups) and globally (>166 groups in >
 31 countries across Europe, Scandinavia, Africa, Asia, Australasia and North America.
 Some notable examples of the international academic collaborations that highlight the global reach
 and standing of our staff include: Arrighi and McCoustra with Mkongo (Ngurdoto Defluoridation
                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Station, Tanzania) resulting in 1 paper in Adsorption; Barker with Rehmann (University
 of Utrecht) and Zhou (University of Texas) resulting in 1 paper in J Medicinal Chemistry, Bos with
 Pollet (University of Bordeaux), resulting in 6 papers incl. ASC Appl. Mater. Inter.; Bucknall with
 Marder (Georgia Institute of Technology) resulting in 3 papers incl. J. Mater. Chem. A; Costen
 with Chandler (Sandia National Labs) and Aoiz (Complutense University of Madrid) producing a
 Nature Chem. paper; Dalgarno with Atwood (University of Missouri) resulting in 5 papers incl.
 Nature Commun.; Euston with Pappa (Democritus University of Thrace) in a H2020 grant resulting
 in 2 papers incl. Biomolecules; Johnston with Tantrakarnapa (Mahidol University, Thailand)
 resulting in 2 papers incl. Environmental Health; Lee with Bebbington (Montclaire State University)
 in a joint grant resulting in a paper in ACS Catal.; Macgregor with Bertand (University of San
 Diego) producing a paper in J. Am. Chem. Soc.; Maskell with Speers (Canadian Institute of
 Fermentation Technology, Dalhousie University, Canada) resulting in 3 publications and a joint
 grant; McKendrick with Minton (Montana State University) with a joint grant resulting in 10 joint
 papers incl J Am. Chem. Soc.; Melchels has extensive collaborations with Malda, Dhert, Ablas,
 Gadella et al (University of Utrecht) including a joint grant resulting in 20 publications incl Nature
 Commun., with Hutmacher, Klein et al. (Queensland University of Technology) leading to 2 joint
 grants and 9 publications incl. Acta Biomaterialia, with Lim and Woodfield (University of Otago)
 producing 3 publications and with Khademhosseini and Randolph (Harvard University) leading to
 2 publications incl Nature Protocols; L Paterson with Nyk (Wroclaw University of Science and
 Technology) and Varma (Indian Institute of Science Bangalore) resulting in several papers incl.
 Nanoscale; M Paterson and Townsend with Sølling (University of Copenhagen) resulting in 4
 publications incl. Chem.Sci. and with Stolow (University of Ottawa) producing 2 papers incl. J.
 Chem. Phys.; Rickman with Sugata (Toronto Western Research Institute) and Papadouplos
 (Queensland Brain Institute); Schweizer with Ugbogu (Abia State University, Nigeria) resulting in
 2 papers incl. FEMS Yeast Research; Stone with Cassee (RIVM, Netherlands) resulting in 11
 publications incl. Scientific Reports and Nanotoxicology) and Hristozov (University Of Venice)
 resulting in 7 papers incl. in Nanotoxicology and NanoImpact; Vilela with Xu (University of Hong
 Kong) resulting in 9 publications incl. Appl. Catal. B Environ.; Welch with Sivaev and Bregadze
 (Russian Academy of Sciences) resulting in 5 papers incl. 2 in Dalton Trans.
 Collaborating for Impact
 Notable examples of industrial collaborations that include direct funding of research and through
 consortia include: Bos with Don (Semimetrics, UK) resulting in 3 papers incl. in J. Mater. Chem.
 A.; Bucknall with Fiscus et al. (ExxonMobil, USA) resulting in 2 directly funded projects and 3
 publications incl. Polymer, as well as Kriegel (Coca Cola Inc, USA) resulting in 1 directly funded
 project and 3 publications incl. Polymer; Coxon with Kendall (Innovipharm Ltd, UK) resulting in a
 paper in J. Pharmacy and Pharmacology; Euston with Akintoye et al. (Marlow (Quorn) Foods,
 UK), Paul (Devro UK), van Damme (Mars plc, UK), MacKnight (Macphie of Glenbervie, UK) and
 Maganini (EcoTech Systems, Italy) in 3 UK and 1 H2020 projects; Holmes with Casey (Diageo
 Global Beer, Eire) resulting in 2 papers in Food Science and Brewing Science; Hill with Edinburgh
 Gin and Port of Leith Distillery through KTP projects; Johnston with BASF SE (Germany), Misvik
 (Finland), QSAR (Poland) in a H2020 project and Alissi Bronte SL (Spain), Vitiva dd (Slovenia),
 Martin Snijder Holding BV (Netherlands) in a EU FP7 project; Lee with Burns (Syngenta, UK)
 resulting in a paper in Chem. Commun.; Leslie with Ardron (Renishaw, UK) resulting in a paper
 in Adv. Bio. Regulations; Mansell with Hanton (Sasol Technology, UK) resulting in a paper in
 Organometallics; L Paterson with Pal (Tata Consultancy, India) resulting in a paper in Scientific
 Reports; Stone with Wohlleben (BASF SE, Germany) resulting in 5 papers incl. in Nanotoxicology;


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Willoughby with Marlow Foods (Quorn), Diageo, Mars, Pennotec, Glenmorangie, and Scottish
 Leather Group.

 Journal / Book Editorships
 Staff in Chemistry hold a number of senior editorial positions with a range of international
 journals including: Barker is a guest editor for Molecules; Bos is on the editorial boards of J Phys.
 Energy, Sustainability, and Sustainability Chemistry; Bucknall is on the editorial board of
 Emergent Materials and is a guest editor for Plos One; Dalgarno is on the editorial board of
 Crystals, was a guest editor for a special edition of CrystEngComm (2016), and was a volume
 editor for Comprehensive Supramolecular Chemistry 2nd Ed. (2015-17); Duncan is on the
 international editorial board of J. Biol. Chem.; Euston is guest editor for Frontiers Sustainable
 Food Production (since 2019); Hill is a member of the editorial boards for the Journal of the
 American Society of Brewing Chemists, Journal of the Institute of Brewing, Fermentation, Food
 Control and Beverages, she has also edited two books (Brewing Microbiology and Spirit
 Production and Quality); Johnston is an editor for Nanotoxicology; Lee is a member of the
 Advisory Board of the RSC's flagship journal, Chemical Science; Mansell was guest editor for
 special issue of Inorganics (2016); McCoustra serves on the editorial board for Scientific Reports
 and is guest editor of Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., McKendrick is a guest editor for Annual Review
 of Physical Chemistry; Macgregor is on the editorial board of Structure and Bonding and is on the
 advisory board of Dalton Trans.; Melchels has been guest editor for special issues in Frontiers in
 Bioengineering and Biotechnology and also Bioengineering; Stone is on the editorial board of both
 Journal of Food Chemistry and Nutrition and Nanotoxicology; Schweizer is an editor of
 International Journal of Molecular Sciences; Willoughby is on the editorial board of Food and
 Bioproducts Processing; Yarwood is the section editor-in-chief of Cells, on the editorial board of
 Cellular Signalling and on the advisory board of Biochemical Journal. He has also been guest
 editor for special editions of Biochemical Society Transactions; Yiu is on the editorial board of
 Journal of Chemical Technology and Biotechnology and has been guest editor a special issue of
 Journal of Chemical Technology and Biotechnology.

 International Conferences
 Staff in Chemistry endeavour to raise visibility by being actively involved in the organisation of
 major international scientific meetings, representative examples of leadership in higher profile
 meetings include: Costen, Greaves, McKendrick, Nahler, M Paterson and Townsend
 organised the 28th International Symposium on Molecular Beams in Edinburgh in June 2019;
 Macgregor is on the 44th International Conference on Coordination Chemistry (ICCC2020)
 International Steering Committee and the International Chair of SessionT20 – Computational and
 Theoretical Coordination Chemistry; L Paterson has been a member of the Photonex Scotland
 Conference organising committee since 2015; Stone organized Inhaled Particles XII (Glasgow
 2017); Welch is a member of the international organising committees for International Meeting on
 Boron Chemistry (IMEBORON) and European Conference on Boron Chemistry (EuroBoron).
 Chemistry staff have chaired >46 sessions at different international conferences and symposia
 including: Bos has chaired sessions at the British Crystallographic Association Conference
 (Lancaster, 2017) and (Warwick, 2018); Bucknall chaired the ACI European PVC Industry
 Summit (London, 2019); McIntosh chaired the 2019 Scottish Dalton regional meeting; Stone has
 chaired sessions at numerous international conferences and symposia including 2 nd International


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Congress on Safety of Engineered Nanoparticles and Nanotechnologies (Helsinki, 2015), and
 Society of Risk Assessment (Venice, 2017).
 Chemistry staff are also recognised through numerous invited, keynote and plenary lectures at
 international meetings (>164 have been identified), with a few examples including Arrighi 6th
 European Conference on Neutron Scattering (Zaragoza, Spain 2015); International workshop
 celebrating “50 Years of Neutron Backscattering” (Munich, Germany 2016); Barker RSC
 Symposium on Heterocyclic Chemistry (Grasmere, UK 2019); Bos MRS-J: Materials Research
 Meeting, Thermoelectric Symposium (Yokohama, Japan 2019); Royal Society UK – Korea
 research conference (Chicheley, UK 2019); Bucknall RSC Science to Enable the Circular
 Economy (London, UK 2019), European Masterbatch Summit (Dusseldorf, Germany 2019),
 American Physical Society National Meeting (Boston, USA 2019), American Chemical Society
 National Meetings (Dallas 2014, Denver 2015 and San Diego 2016); Costen 33rd International
 Symposium on Free Radicals (Tahoe, USA 2015); Advanced Particle Imaging Techniques
 (Telluride, USA 2016), 26th Conference on the Dynamics of Molecular Collisions (Tahoe, USA
 2017), 25th International Symposium on Gas Kinetics and Related Phenomena (Lille, France
 2018); Coxon Novabiochem Chemistry and Biology of Peptides Symposium (Durham UK 2017);
 RSC Perkin Meeting (St Andres, UK 2020); EFMC Short Course on Kinetic Perspectives on Drug-
 Target Interactions (Oegstgeest, Netherlands 2018); Dalgarno International Seminar on Inclusion
 Compounds (Walsaw, Poland 2015 and Kazan, Russia 2017), RSC Macrocyclic and
 Supramolecular Chemistry Meeting (Edinburgh, UK 2016), 9th Catalysis and Sensing for Our
 Environment Symposium (Yangling, China 2019), American Chemical Society Midwest Regional
 meeting (2014); Euston European Summit of Industrial Biotechnology (Graz, Austria 2019);
 Johnston 1st Interprofessional Education Nano Training School (Venice, Italy 2019); Lee RSC,
 ACS and GDCh “Transatlantic Frontiers of Chemistry” (TFOC) (Kloster Seeon, Germany 2013),
 9th RSC-CSJ Joint Symposium: Designing Molecular Function at the Nano-Scale (London, UK
 2018); Leslie Advances in Biological Regulation (Bologna, Italy 2014 & 2019), European
 Symposium on Hormones and Cell Regulation (Alsace, Germany 2014), Tissue Engineering and
 Regenerative Medicine International Society Conference (Kyoto, Japan 2018); Macgregor at
 EuCOMC XXI (Bratislava, Slovakia 2015) and ICOMC (Florence, Italy 2018), VIII International
 School on Organometallic Chemistry (Seville, Spain 2015), Trans-Pyrenean Conference on
 Catalysis (Toulouse, France 2016) and USIC (Glasgow, UK 2016); Maskell Master Brewers of
 the Americas Association (Jackonsville, USA 2015); McCoustra Physique et Chimie des Milieux
 Interstellaire et Circumstellaire (Marseille, France 2018), American Chemical Society National
 Meeting (Dallas, USA 2014); McKendrick Stereodynamics (St Petersburg, Russia 2014),
 International Conference on Molecular Energy Transfer in Complex Systems (Chengdu, China
 2015), RSC Spectroscopy and Dynamics Group Meeting (Warwick, UK 2016), RSC Awards mini-
 symposium on Surfaces and Interactions (Oxford, UK 2016), TSRC Workshop on Dynamics on
 Multiple Potential Energy Surfaces (Telluride, USA 2014, 2016 and 2018), Gordon Research
 Conferences (Newport, USA 2017 and Easton, USA 2018), International Symposium on Free
 Radicals (Hayama, Japan 2017), Faraday Discussion on Ionic Liquids (Cambridge, UK 2017),
 American Chemical Society National Meeting (San Diego, USA 2019); Melchels International
 Conference on Biofabrication (Pohang, South Korea 2014, Utrecht, Netherlands 2015 and
 Würzburg, Germany 2018), SELECTBIO Bioprinting & 3D Printing in the Life Sciences
 (Cambridge, UK 2016); M Paterson Novel computational methods for quantitative electronic
 structure calculations (Kobe, Japan 2015); Theoretical Chemistry and Computational Modelling in
 Europe (Leuven, Belgium 2017); Schweizer International Conference on Yeast Genetics &
 Molecular Biology (Frankfurt, Germany 2013, Levico Terme, Italy 2015, Prague, Czech Republic

                                                                                        Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2017, Gothenburg, Sweden 2019); Stone NanoTox (Turkey 2014 and Germany 2018), 2ndEU-
 Asia Dialogue on Nanosafety (Vienna, Austria 2018), BioEM 2017 (Hangzhou, China 2017),
 Society of Risk Assessment Annual Conference (Venice, Italy 2017), NanoSafe 2016 (Grenoble,
 France 2016), Society of Risk Assessment World Congress ( Singapore, 2015), Annual Graphene
 Summit (Berlin, Germany 2015), UK-U.S. Bridging NanoEHS Research Efforts Joint Workshop
 (Venice, Italy 2015), SRA Nano Risk Workshop (Washington, USA 2014); Townsend IoP
 Molecular Physics Workshop (Caen, France 2015), XLIC WG3 Meeting on Control of Chemical
 Reactivity (Belfast, UK 2016), Ultrafast 2018 (Edinburgh, UK 2018), New Horizons in Chemical
 Physics (Oxford, UK 2019); Welch IMEBORON XV and XVI (Prague 2014, Hong Kong 2017),
 EuroBoron 7 and 8 (Suzdal, Russia 2017, Montpellier, France 2019), INEOS-RAS 60th
 Anniversary Conference (Moscow, Russia, 2014), Pacifichem (Hawaii, USA 2015); Yiu ENM
 meeting on Carbon Nanostructures (Honolulu, USA 2016), 3rd Intl Congress on Biosensor
 (Ankara, Turkey 2016), 2nd Intl Conference on Materials Science and Nanotechnology (Auckland,
 New Zealand 2017)

 Other Leadership and Recognition
 Barker is a member of the RSC Scottish Steering Group, and is also an Early Careers Network
 Committee Member for Scotland; Bucknall has served as an Adjunct Professor at Georgia Tech
 USA since 2015 and also serves on the STFC Facilities Access Panel since 2018, acted as an
 expert witness for 3M (USA, 2015-16) and consultant for Church and Dwight (USA, 2018). He also
 served as the external examiner of Imperial College MSc degree program in Plastics Electronics
 (2017-2019); Dalgarno was an elected member of RSC Dalton Division Council from 2015 – 2018
 and is a consultant for the Cambrex Corporation on molecular structural analysis; Duncan served
 on STFC Science Board (2015-18), the principal scientific advisory committee providing strategic
 oversight on all £670M research activities for STFC. He also currently serves on many
 international advisory panels and other UKRI panels, including for EPSRC, MRC and STFC; he
 also previously served on the Executive Board of the Scottish Universities Physics Alliance
 (SUPA); Euston served as a committee member for the SCI Agri-Food group from 2015-2018 and
 served as external examiner for the University of Teesside, School of Engineering Food Science
 degree programs (2014-0218); Hill was external examiner of the Leeds International Study Centre
 International Year 1 programme; Johnston is a member of the National Centre for the
 Replacement, Refinement & Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs) studentship evaluation
 panel; Macgregor is a member of the EPSRC e-Infrastructure Strategic Advisory Board; Mansell
 is a member of the RSC interest group organising committee for Main Group Chemistry; Maskell
 was given the Freedom of the City of London in 2019 in recognition of her ‘Leadership in Brewing
 and Distilling’; McCoustra served as the chair of the British Vacuum Council (2016-19), is Member
 (since 08/2020) of the Interdisciplinary Programme Advisory Committee (iPAC) for GANIL
 (France), and is the IUVSTA representative (since 04/2020) on the steering group for 2022;
 M Paterson sits on the ScotChem (Scottish research and training pool for Chemistry)
 management board having taken over from McKendrick; Melchels is a scientific advisor for
 Tessenderlo Group (Belgium) which focuses on agriculture, valorizing bio-residuals and providing
 industrial solutions; Rickman sits on the Executive Board of the Scottish Universities Life Sciences
 Association (SULSA), having taken over from Duncan; Schweizer serves as an Adjunct Professor
 of Biochemistry at Friedrich-Alexander University, Germany; Stone sits on many Advisory Boards
 including for the EU Nanomedicine Characterisation Laboratory and has been recognized as being
 in the top 1% cited researchers in the Clarivate Analytics Highly Cited Researcher List in the field
 of Toxicology since 2015; Vilela was recently names as the Emerging Investigator in Flow

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chemistry for 2020 by the Journal of Flow Chemistry; Willoughby serves in multiple leaderships
 roles including Chair of Scottish Industrial Biotechnology Development Group, member of the
 Scottish Biorefining Strategy Group, and is deputy-chair of the Scientific Advisory Board of
 Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre (IBioIC).
 Government Panels / Activities
 Duncan was part of the Scottish Government mission to Beijing, Shanghai and Hong-Kong led by
 the First Minister (April 2017) and a similar mission to showcase UK Science to Delhi and
 Bangalore, led by the Scottish Deputy First Minister (November 2019). He has also served as a
 member of the Scottish Parliamentary Cross-Party Group for Life Science. He is currently on
 secondment with UKRI and serves as Director of Talent and Skills; Hill served as a member of
 the Scottish Parliament Cross-Party Working Group for Scotch Whisky (2018-19).




                                                                                       Page 19
