Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 7 (Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1A. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE

 Research in the Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences has been a traditional strength at
 the University of Aberdeen with a long and sustained reputation for research excellence that
 is pivotal to the research strategy of the Institution moving forward.

 Our reputation for research excellence in this area is facilitated by our co-location in Europe’s
 energy capital and in the immediate vicinity to major offshore fishing hubs, the aquaculture
 industry, world-famous water courses, intensive agriculture and the UK’s largest National Park.
 This places the University on the very “front line” of environmental research and a collaborating
 partner of choice for government, NGOs and industry to co-design and deliver leading
 edge research that translates into impact. This activity is now being shaped around new and
 emerging national and global environmental challenges including oil and gas decommissioning,
 development and deployment to renewable energy infrastructure, post-Brexit management of
 natural capital and resources and increasing protected marine habitat.

 Recognising our research strength, and the global importance of our endeavour, the University
 has placed environmental science at the core of its newly 20-year strategic plan –
 “Aberdeen2040” (www.abdn.ac.uk/2040/), around which major research investment and
 teaching activity will be structured. “Environment & Biodiversity” and “Energy Transition” are
 two of the five interdisciplinary themes core to this strategic plan, and these are being supported
 by major investment such the newly opened GBP38M National Decommissioning Centre
 (www.ukndc.com) that partners industry with academia to transform all aspects of the
 decommissioning process.

 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences research at the University is primarily channelled
 through two Schools –Biological Sciences (SBS) and Geosciences (SG), with extensive
 collaborations with the other ten Schools (but notably Engineering, Law and Social Science) to
 deliver truly transdisciplinary research that is effectively translated to impact (Figure 1). This
 submission includes 87 (83.2 full-time equivalent (FTE)) academic staff from across SBS and
 SG who, together, have published more than 3500 peer reviewed publications during the
 REF period, have had their work highlighted in over 8000 policy papers, patents, news
 items and blogs (source: Altmetrics), secured more than GBP59M of competitively acquired
 funding from UKRI, charity and industrial sources, supported 287 PhD students and
 published with collaborators from more than 80 countries.

 In REF2014, the University’s submission to UoA7 was from SG alone and purely centred on
 Earth systems research. This REF2021 submission reflects a wider integration of Earth and
 environmental science research, emphasising research coherence and a fundamental
 commitment to promote interdisciplinary collaboration across multiple Schools.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The School of Biological Sciences (SBS) has a research portfolio that covers pure and
 applied research, with a cross-cutting theme of understanding the biological consequences
 of environmental change. Our research incorporates theoretical, empirical and experimental
 studies on plants, animals and microorganisms that spans from gene to global scales, from the
 deep ocean to high altitude and from poles to tropics. Research activity is organised through four
 research clusters where we have an international reputation for cutting edge research. 1)
 Ecology; 2) Environment; 3) Evolution; and 4) Integrative Environmental Physiology (returned to
 UoA5). These clusters affiliate staff and students with shared research interests, facilitate inter-
 disciplinary ways of working and incorporate seminar programmes, symposia and workshops to
 foster collaboration and interaction.

 The Ecology cluster focuses on understanding the impact of natural and anthropogenic
 processes on the abundance, dynamics and distribution of individuals, populations and
 species. This encompasses population, behavioural and community ecology with an emphasis
 on long-term, large-scale field studies to provide an empirical understanding of how ecological
 processes affect natural populations and time-series data to identify population responses to
 environmental change. This is supported by strong theoretical research and novel statistical
 modelling and laboratory-based tools. Recurrent research themes within the Ecology cluster
 where we have provided major new insights include understanding the causes and
 consequences of range-shifts and demographic change in natural populations (Bodie, Burslem,
 Cornulier, Gubry-Rangin, Lambin, Lancaster, Payo-Payo, Ponchon, Prosser, Reid, Woodin), the
 factors affecting the emergence and spread of zoonotic diseases (Moseley, Telfer, Strachan),
 management of invasive non-native species (Bodie, Burslem, Douglas, Lambin, Woodward),
 effective management of sustainable fish resources (Fernandes, Marshall, Scott), functional
 linkages between oceanographic processes and the life history traits and population dynamics of
 top marine predators (Reid, Scott, Thompson) and mitigating the impacts of human activity on
 conservation and management (Lusseau, Ponchon, Redpath, Thompson, Van der Wal).
 Research highlights include Lancaster’s work on thermal tolerance and range shifts in plants
 (DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1918162117) and insects (DOI: 10.1038/s41559-020-1199-1), Lambin’s
 work on trophic transfer of pesticides (DOI: 10.1111/1365-2664.13578), Cornulier and Lambin’s
 work on large-scale invasive species control (DOI: 10.1111/1365-2664.13115), Prosser’s work
 on bacterial and fungal network stability (DOI: 10.1038/nature13604) and Fernandes’ work on
 applied fisheries management (DOI: 10.1038/s41559-017-0170).


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Environment cluster integrates complementary expertise in biogeochemistry, ecosystem
 modelling, environmental restoration and global environmental change to deliver insight on the
 impact of climate change, land management practice, environmental sustainability and
 pollution. We have generated major insights into effects of climate change on soil carbon
 stocks (Smith-P, Smith-J), evidenced by Smith-P’s inclusion in the annual world’s highly cited
 list, - and developed decision support tools, which have been adopted in over 100 countries, that
 model the impacts of land use and soil management on greenhouse gas emissions (Smith-P,
 Smith-J, Hastings). We have examined the ecological impacts of climate change and land
 management on plant communities (Burslem, Cameron, Taylor, Woodin, Woodward), the
 biogeochemical processes and ecosystem function in deep sea and arctic ecosystems (Witte,
 Kuepper), the interplay between soil physical properties and biological processes under
 environmental change (Hallett, Malik, Norton) and the development of microbial bioassays to
 monitor environmental perturbations (Paton). Research highlights include Burslem’s work on
 how active restoration of logged forests generates higher rates of carbon accumulation than
 naturally regenerating forest (DOI: 10.1126/science.aay4490), Smith-P’s work on farming,
 habitat and management practices that co-deliver food security and climate change mitigation
 (DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1710465114//10.5281/zenodo.883444,
 10.1111/gcb.14878,10.1073/pnas.1611576114).

 The Evolution cluster examines the adaptive processes and genetic mechanisms that
 shape the patterns of biodiversity and the genetic basis of key phenotypic traits. This
 research spans molecular and quantitative genetic approaches to understand eco-evolutionary
 dynamics in natural populations (Bocedi, Douglas, Fisher, Lancaster, Layton, Piertney, Reid,
 Travis), interactions between behaviour and evolutionary responses to environmental change
 (Lancaster, Pilakouta), microbial diversity and function in relation to ecosystem service and
 biogeochemical cycling (Gubry-Rangin, Malik, Prosser) and functional genomics and
 transcriptomics to understand the genetic basis of commercially/agriculturally important and
 functionally relevant traits (Jones, Norton, Piertney, Price, Sleight, Vogwill). Research highlights
 include Rangin’s work on diversification and pH adaption in archaea (DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-
 19132-x, 10.1073/pnas.1419329112 // 10.5061/dryad.0nv00), Reid’s work on quantitative
 genetic analysis of mating systems and fitness in birds (DOI: 10.1086/686198,
 10.1111/evo.13575), Vogwill’s work on evolution of antibiotic resistance (DOI:
 10.1093/molbev/msu262) and Price’s work on the genetic basis of functional traits in rice that
 influence human health and food security (DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1317360111)

 The School of Geosciences (SG) covers pure and applied research in Earth, planetary and
 environmental sciences, including work on societal interactions and sustainability.
 Research addresses a full spectrum of scales, from molecular geochemistry to planetary
 geosystems and temporal scales from instantaneous mass movement events to deep geological
 time. A consistent theme throughout is the use of state-of-the-art earth and planetary
 observation methods with advanced modelling tools. Our research clusters staff and
 research students around four main themes with porous boundaries and natural interactions.
 This has built an interactive community for sharing research ideas through seminar series and
 more focused workshops. Increasingly, the synergies with the three SBS clusters are further
 developed and reinforced.

 The Basin Fill cluster provides a “source to sink” framework of how energy, fluids and
 material fluxes shape process-morphology interactions of the Earth system. Within this
 over-arching framework, sub-groups focus on specific topics over distinct space-time scales.
 One sub-group focuses on modern and ancient sedimentary systems to understand basin fill
 through deep time, how processes are preserved and identified in the stratigraphic record and
 how this informs the identification or hydrocarbon reservoirs (Brackenridge, Hartley, Hole,
 Howell, Hurst, Jolley, North, Schofield-N). A cognate sub-group of researchers have a strong
 geochemistry focus (Bowden, Brasier, Muirhead, Neilson, Parnell) with emphasis in using
 organic and trace-metal geochemistry to investigate carbonate systems, the deep biosphere and
 planetary atmospheres. An understanding of water resource systems is the focus of the
 hydrology sub-group (Comte, Geris, Green, Haro, Soulsby); research integrates empirical and

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 modelling approaches, with emphasis on understanding multiscale hydrological systems using
 stable isotopes, land use change effects on water quantity and quality and characterisation of
 coastal and hard-rock groundwater systems. The cryosphere sub-group (Rea, Spagnolo)
 research ice-climate interactions, ice sheet mass balance, glacial landform genesis and
 palaeoglaciology. Finally, a palynology sub-group (Mauquoy, Mighall, Schofield-E) focuses on
 reconstruction of Holocene environmental change, with links to human activity during prehistory
 and early history using pollen analysis, macrofossil analysis, non-pollen microfossils, peat
 geochemistry and isotopic dating. Highlights include Schofield-N, Alsop and Jolley’s explorations
 into the influence of igneous intrusions on basins and reservoirs (DOI: 10.1130/G35406.1,
 10.1306/05091918193); Bowden’s interdisciplinary work on the deep ocean biosphere (DOI:
 10.1126/science.aaa6882, 10.1126/science.abd7934); Soulsby’s research on isotope-based
 modelling of water sources and biogeochemistry (e.g. DOI: 10.1038/s41561-018-0218-1,
 10.5194/gmd-11-3045-2018); and Rea, Spagnolo and Howell’s work on marine terminating ice
 sheets (DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aar8327).

 The Tectonics and Geophysics cluster focuses on tectonic influences on sedimentation
 systems and the dynamics of lithosphere deformation. One sub-group is centred on
 tectonics and structural geology (Alsop, Bond, Butler, Gan, Healy). Here the focus is on
 investigation of deformation across scales; integrating diverse data and observations, including
 seismological studies of regions of active tectonics to developing understanding of rock fracture
 in the geological record through laboratory experimentation and numerical modelling. This
 includes industry-supported investigations of thrust systems, changing perceptions of
 interpretation uncertainty in forecasting subsurface structure. The geophysics sub-group
 (Cornwell, Giannakis, Gilligan, Loer, Stephenson) is active across the spectrum of solid Earth
 sciences from upper mantle and crust/lithosphere characterisation (>106m) through imaging of
 sedimentary strata. Theoretical and practical development of a wide range of geophysical
 methodologies are employed across this spectrum. Recent highlights include Healy’s
 quantification and modelling of fractures and anisotropy (DOI: 10.1016/j.jsg.2014.02.008,
 10.1016/j.jsg.2016.12.003); Bond’s work on geological controls on carbon capture storage (DOI:
 10.1038/s41467-018-04423-1); Butler’s work on structural geometry in fold-thrust belts (DOI:
 10.1016/j.jsg.2018.06.019); and Cornwell’s extensive international collaboration on quantifying
 background seismic noise (DOI: 10.1126/science.abd2438).

 The newly established Planetary Atmospheres and Surface Processes cluster (Martin-Torres,
 Zorzano, Bhardwaj, Sam, Singh) builds upon our previous planetary science work (e.g., Parnell,
 Bowden). Research focuses on planetary atmosphere-surface interactions, particularly
 radiative transfer and innovations in instrument design for space exploration, integrating
 remote sensing, field studies and laboratory simulations. Cross cutting themes include
 atmosphere and climate interactions, field and laboratory analogue studies, in-situ resource
 utilisation and astrobiology and habitability. The group have been active investigators on the
 NASA Mars Curiosity Rover and the European Space Agency (ESA) Trace Gas Orbiter.
 Highlights include: the work of Martin-Torres and Zorzano group on the detection of methane
 (DOI:10.1126/science.1261713) and liquid water (DOI: 10.1038/ngeo2412) on Mars; the
 possible role of aqueous processes on Martian hillslopes (DOI: 10.1029/2018RG000617); and
 Parnell’s work on methane in Martian meteorites (DOI: 10.1038/ncomms8399).

 The Environment and Society cluster explores the complex, evolving relationships between
 social and ecological systems in the context of rapid environmental change (Duffy, Phillip,
 Pierce, Potts, Prager, Wartmann). Foci include the governance of natural capital, resources and
 human systems (coastal, marine, rural agricultural), rural and coastal populations, landscape
 perception, demography and change and urban geography. Research utilises a variety of mixed
 methods integrating spatial sciences, longitudinal surveys, innovative qualitative and contextual
 analysis and direct participatory research with stakeholders and communities. Publication
 highlights include Pott’s work on coastline ecosystem services and management (DOI:
 10.1016/j.ecoser.2019.101009; 10.1016/j.marpol.2016.06.012); Philip’s work on remote rural



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 areas (DOI: 10.1016/j.jrurstud.2016.12.002); and Haro’s work on water and food security (DOI:
 10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2016.05.003).
 Although SBS and SG have independent research agendas and objectives, activity is
 increasingly aligned, leveraging gains through multiple cross-School synergies. These are
 demonstrated by joint funded research projects, co-supervision of PhD students and shared use
 of analytical facilities, equipment and infrastructure. Examples of interdisciplinary collaboration
 include successive NERC-funded projects between Geris, Hallett and Soulsby that combine
 expertise in Critical Zone Science to sustain soil and water-related ecosystem services in
 sensitive agri-ecosystems in China. Similarly, Scott and Potts integrate ecological and social
 science perspectives to the assessment of ecosystem services for planning Marine Protected
 Areas (see impact case study). Both Schools partner through Scottish Government Research
 Pooling initiatives including the Scottish Alliance for Geoscience, Environment and Society
 (SAGES), Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance (SULSA) and Marine Alliance for Science
 and Technology for Scotland (MASTS).
 SBS and SG collaboration gained a major further impetus through the award in 2018 of two
 NERC Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP): QUADRAT-DTP (www.quadrat.ac.uk) is a
 partnership between the University of Aberdeen and Queen’s University Belfast to provide a
 transformative platform for PhD research and training in biodiversity, earth systems and
 environmental management. QUADRAT-DTP will support 100 students (60 NERC funded, 40
 matched funded by Schools), half of whom will be within SBS and SG, and involves joint
 supervision and explore multidisciplinary topics. SUPER-DTP (www.superdtp.st-andrews.ac.uk)
 involves eight Scottish University partners, with a focus on the broad themes of environmental
 dynamics, biodiversity and challenged ecosystems.

 1B. RESEARCH STRATEGY

 Environmental science is at the core of the Aberdeen2040 strategic plan around which major
 research investment and teaching activity is structured. Ensuring research excellence with
 impact is a key tenet within that strategy and is reflected in our research strategy for Earth
 Systems and Environmental Sciences.

 Research activity and strategy within SBS and SG is overseen by research committees
 comprising a Director of Research, the Head of School and research active staff at different
 stages of career including Early Career Researchers (ECRs). These research committees meet
 regularly for information exchange, horizon scanning, peer review of grant applications and
 papers, distribution of discretionary research funds to pump-prime new research and
 identification of funding and collaboration opportunities. Both School Directors of Research sit on
 the University Research Policy Committee chaired by the University Vice Principal for Research,
 which is a conduit for inputting into the institutional research vision, overseeing research
 governance and ethics procedures and target setting for individual Institutes/research
 programmes. Unit staff (Brasier, Johnson, Piertney, Rea) also play pivotal roles in institutional
 strategy around, and support for, interdisciplinary research, sitting on working and oversight
 groups to enhance interdisciplinary ways of working, developing core facilities and directing
 investment. Unit staff also lead the University’s Interdisciplinary themes around Environment and
 Biodiversity (Burslem) and Energy Transition (Potts) which are core to the Aberdeen2040
 strategy.

 SBS and SG research strategies feed into their broader School plans to deliver the University
 strategic goals. The strategy is centred on enhancing external research grant income, research
 student numbers, high-quality outputs, partnerships with end-users and stakeholders, research
 impact, outreach activity and institutional profile.
 The associated operating plans identify areas for staff recruitment and infrastructure investment,
 capacity building development and maintenance of facilities, peer-review of grant and
 manuscripts, disseminating information on research opportunity (collaborations, funding etc),


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pump-priming innovative research, foster interactions with external collaborators and support
 impact and outreach activities.
 The effectiveness of interaction around peer review is exemplified by a combined NERC
 Discovery mode application support and review panel established in response to the NERC
 demand management cap in application numbers. This panel provides a thorough review
 pipeline for applicants from consideration of initial idea through to final submission, and this
 process in part resulted in the successful removal of the institute from a capped quota in 2018.
 This model for applicant support and bid development has been extended to include all grant
 applications from across all funding bodies.
 SBS Research Strategy REF2014 – REF2021

 For REF2014, most (29.2FTE) SBS staff were submitted to Unit of Assessment 5 (Biological
 Sciences) and fewer (20.4FTE) to UoA6 (Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Science). For these
 areas 83% and 92% of our overall research activity was considered to be world-leading or
 internationally excellent (4*/3*), respectively. The UoA6 submission was ranked number one in
 the UK for Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Science. Overall, 100% of the School’s impact was
 judged as 4*/3*, as was the research environment.

 After REF2014, research direction has undergone a concerted and engineered shift towards
 greater interdisciplinarity and increased collaboration with SG and also to consolidate emphasis
 around the three stated objectives from REF2014.

 Integration of ‘omics technologies:. The School has traditional strength in using genomic and
 transcriptomic data to identify the genetic basis of adaptive and functionally important traits
 (Price, Norton, Douglas, Lancaster), link microbial community dynamics to fundamental
 biogeochemical processes (Rangin, Prosser) and resolve patterns of population genetic
 structure and gene flow (Piertney, Jones). This expertise has been extended and expanded by
 the targeted recruitment of six early career staff with direct expertise in the use of multi
 ‘omics approaches and analyses across a range of ecological, environmental and evolutionary
 contexts (Malik, Moseley, Layton, Pilakouta, Sleight, Vogwill). Our capacity for developing and
 exploiting ‘omics approaches is enabled by sustained investment in the University’s Centre
 for Genome Enabled Biology and Medicine (CGEBM) (www.abdn.ac.uk/genomics). CGEBM
 offers both the research infrastructure and bioinformatics support to facilitate leading edge
 research across a broad taxonomic range of model and non-model animal, plant and microbe
 systems. There has been targeted investment and training in Oxford Nanopore 3rd generation
 DNA sequencing technologies to enable field-based assessment of biodiversity in real time
 and/or from eDNA samples. This ensures that emerging ‘omics techniques dovetail with our
 traditional expertise in field ecology and environmental monitoring to provide new insight into
 aspects such as causes and consequences of variation in the microbiome and rhizosphere,
 detection of emerging zoonotic diseases and detection of invasive non-native species.

 Translational ecology delivers impact through recursive interaction between researchers and
 end-users to develop management actions and conservation tools for the effective stewardship
 of the environment and natural resources. This has been delivered across multiple contexts
 including the control of invasive species (Burslem, Douglas, Lambin, Travis), development of
 tools that minimise fisheries by-catch (Fernandes, Marshall) and the deployment of renewable
 energy devices (Scott, Thompson), the control of emerging zoonotic diseases (Telfer), ecological
 and evolutionary constraints on population viability and ecosystem services (Burslem, Reid) and
 the resolution of conflict between biodiversity conservation and human livelihood (Redpath, Van
 der Wal). We have recruited four new staff to consolidate expertise in this area (Bodie,
 Morimoto, Moseley, Payo-Payo) with increasing emphasis on dovetailing activity with socio-
 economic outcomes and the integration of new remote sensing and in situ autonomous field-
 based monitoring technology.

 Quantitative and modelling capacity is a traditional strength within SBS, with the application of
 complex quantitative approaches and predictive models across a range of ecological and

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 evolutionary contexts involving quantitative genetics (Reid), oceanographic processes (Scott,
 Witte), dispersal (Cornulier, Lambin, Ponchon, Piertney, Telfer), epidemiology (Moseley, Telfer)
 and multi-trophic interactions (Burslem, Lambin, Van der Wal, Woodin). The School has also
 developed several high-profile modelling platforms that have found broad application within
 the community. These include: (i) decision support models such as the “Cool Farm Tool” to
 enable real world reduction in greenhouse gas emissions which has been adopted by 82 of
 the World’s largest agri-food businesses (Smith-P, Smith-J, Hastings – see impact case study);
 and (ii) the “Rangeshifter” platform (Bocedi, Travis), a state-of-the-art individual based
 simulation software for predicting eco-evolutionary dynamics in complex landscapes that
 is being used in multiple projects and across several countries in the context of rewilding,
 ecological forecasting, epidemiology and response to environmental change.

 Recruitment of new staff over the assessment period has been made with explicit recourse to
 increasing our bioinformatics, biostatistics and modelling skills base (Bodie, Fisher, Layton,
 Malik, Morimoto, Payo-Payo, Pilakouta, Sleight, Vogwill). Moreover, there has been
 considerable investment in high performance computing capacity and staff training opportunities
 to underpin the move towards big data analytics.

 SG Research Strategy REF2014 – REF2021

 In REF2014, the UoA7 submission was solely focused on SG staff, with research centred on
 geology, geophysics and physical geography to emphasise a strategic re-focussing of our
 research across the Earth and environmental sciences and diversification from our traditional
 interests centred on hydrocarbons. In total, 28.4FTE were submitted with 89% of our overall
 research activity ranked as 3* or 4* quality. Restructuring within the University and School since
 2014 has continued this diversification with the integration of six social scientists and three
 palynologists. Within this context, our research strategy in the REF period has had three core
 elements:

 1. Integration through advancing Earth observation. Since REF2014 we have advanced and
 diversified our capability to generate extensive and intensive data streams across our main
 areas of research strength, through strategic appointments and investment in novel, advanced
 field equipment. This has driven greater integration and interdisciplinary collaboration between
 our clusters. New appointments have extended our capacity in geophysics, for example, in
 passive seismology (Gilligan, Loer), machine learning (Giannakis) and characterisation of
 shallow depths, which have environmental and socio-economic implications (Comte). This has
 received sustained investment by the University in developing the Aberdeen University
 Geophysical Equipment Repository (AUGER), which provides a wide spectrum of techniques for
 subsurface characterisation. Likewise, in tectonics, a new rock physics and geomechanics
 laboratory supports by new staff (Gan) and fosters collaboration with other sub-groups on issues
 as diverse as the role of fractures as hydrogeological controls and structural influences on ice
 sheet movement. New appointments have also enhanced geochemistry capability, notably
 through use of Raman spectroscopy (Muirhead), which has helped provide a basis for
 integrating the new palynology sub-group (Mauquoy, Mighall, Schofield-E) within the Basin Fill
 cluster. The appointments of Geris and Haro ensure new capability in hydrology and enabled the
 establishment of a new experimental catchment to assess land use change effects on water
 resources. Meanwhile, strengths in the sediment system sub-group have been consolidated by
 new capacity in deep water sediment systems as resources and geohazards (Brackenridge).
 2. Establishing the Planetary Atmospheres and Surface Process Cluster is a focused
 strategic investment by the University that builds capacity in Earth and planetary observation. It
 provides a hub for integration across the Unit, but also externally with the UK Space Agency,
 British Antarctic Survey (BAS) and industry. Staff bring world-leading expertise in space
 exploration and environment sensor design (Martin-Torres, Zorzano), as well as new capabilities
 in remote sensing and GIS applications (Bhardwaj, Sam, Singh). The group diversifies existing
 capacity in the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) in advanced earth surface
 characterisation (Howell). New initiatives include development and deployment of environmental

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sensors and remote sensing applications in glaciology (with Rea, Spagnolo) and research on
 planetary analogue environments with BAS.

 3. Interfacing with the social sciences: the newly established Environment and Society group
 provides a platform for expanding our research more explicitly in a range of societal global
 challenges beyond those related to energy. New appointments build capacity in coastal zone
 and marine resource management (Potts), agri-food policy (Prager), cultural ecosystem services
 (Wartmann), urban geography (Pierce) and the demographics of coastal communities (Duffy).
 Increased interdisciplinary work with traditional areas of Earth science are being developed (e.g.,
 Haro in water security) and is further facilitated by collaboration with ecological and climate
 modellers in SBS.

 UoA7 Research Strategy REF2021 – ONWARDS

 Within SBS, new investment in facilities (section 3C) and the appointment of new staff over the
 previous REF period (section 2A) provide further capacity to leverage research achievement and
 impact around the cross-cutting theme of understanding the fundamental biological
 consequences of environmental change. Our research focus will further emphasise
 multidisciplinary approaches to understand, measure and manage ecological, environmental and
 evolutionary resilience across different scales of organisation (populations, species,
 communities, landscapes) to different drivers of natural and anthropogenic environmental
 change. Our research activity will continue to be both challenge-led and curiosity-driven and
 translated to deliver impact and influence wherever possible. There are several emerging
 sectoral and technological opportunities that the School will exploit. These include issues such
 as decarbonisation, especially around carbon capture and storage, the deployment of
 renewable energy devices, the decommissioning of oil and gas infrastructure and biodiversity
 offsetting; rewilding and the effective management of natural capital especially in the
 context of new socio-political landscapes for the management of natural resources, such as
 fisheries management in a post-Brexit UK and changing land-use; and new ‘omics,
 experimental evolution and gene editing technologies allowing more mechanistic
 understanding of the genetic basis of ecologically relevant traits in non-model systems and novel
 interventions in the management and conservation of natural resources and eradication of
 invasive species.

 For SG, we are widening our focus on fundamental research into the Earth and other planetary
 systems and deepening our work in partnership with various end-user communities to ensure
 our research has impact and serves key societal and commercial ends. Three priority cross-
 cutting themes emerge going forward. Firstly, the diversification of our Earth Systems Science
 research continues to evolve and align with the energy transition. This cements our
 strategy within the University’s core Energy Transition theme and adapts our traditional research
 strengths developed from collaboration with the hydrocarbons industry but now evolving to
 support the energy transition. Examples include research to characterise fracture patterns,
 processes and fluid pathways in geothermal fields and potential subsurface CO2 storage sites,
 and in reducing uncertainty in forecasting fault distributions that can compromise the integrity of
 nuclear waste repositories. The SG remains an international magnet for applied research
 associated with the energy sector, as evidenced by a large international PhD community in this
 area. Our involvement in the GeoNetZero Centre for Doctoral Training (https://geo-net-
 zero.hw.ac.uk/) will diversify graduate research in this field. Secondly, leveraging investment in
 the Planetary Atmospheres and Surface Process cluster to provide a hub for synergies
 across other research groups and between SG and SBS. Integrating themes include the
 development of new environmental sensors, particularly for extreme environments, and remote
 sensing applications with momentum building through involvement in the ESA/IKI ExoMars 2022
 mission. Finally, we will prioritise strengthening the social dimensions of our Earth and
 environmental research through internal and external collaborations on national and
 international challenge-based research.

 There are several cross cutting strategic objectives that underpin all activity across the Unit:

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (i) Interdisciplinarity - the Aberdeen2040 strategy identifies challenge-led, interdisciplinary
 research in the service of others as central to our ambition. Fundamental discovery research and
 pathways to impact frequently demand interdisciplinary solutions that emerge from inter-School
 collaborations, increasingly with the dovetailing of social science aspects. This activity gain
 added impetus through the University-prioritised Environment & Biodiversity and Energy
 Transition interdisciplinary themes, which provide a springboard through which different
 disciplines can integrate to magnify their impact, providing added value, capacity building and
 generating new synergies. SBS and SG staff have been instrumental in developing and applying
 this theme-based approach to facilitate broad and previously refractory collaborations.

 (ii) Translational research and pathways to impact – we are developing and expanding our
 links with key end-users across government, industry and other stake-holder groups. Working
 through the University interdisciplinary themes, we engage in dialogue between science and
 end-users to identify and address relevant questions and translate science into integrated
 evidence to help inform policy decisions to deliver real economic and societal impact. We will
 also form closer links through our existing DTP collaborations and interactions using student
 training and placement as a conduit to closer research links.

 (iii) Capacity building – people are at the heart of our strategy, and, going forwards, we ensure
 that our recently appointed researchers have the support to build collaborative networks, focus
 on leading edge research questions linked to societally relevant issues, secure research funding
 and effectively translate research to impact. We will build on our existing DTP and seek new
 collaborations to provide more critical mass around key environmental challenges. We will also
 attract and support further independent research fellows who align with existing research
 strengths and where we can develop their careers. This is facilitated by our Grants Academy
 fellowship mentoring programme, designed out of the Vitae Researcher Concordat to support
 high quality ECRs at all stages of the fellowship application process.

 (iv) Robust, reproducible and open research - The Unit’s research and impact strategies are
 directed to all aspects of research integrity and governance, transparent, robust and
 reproducible research practice, open data and publication. This enables the delivery of the
 highest quality research, maximises dissemination of research findings to facilitate both
 academic and non-academic impact and leverages future collaboration and interaction. We will
 continue to ensure that all our research practice complies with the University’s Research
 Governance Framework, Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the UK
 Research Integrity Office Code of Practice to deliver the highest standards of excellence,
 honesty, integrity, rigour, transparency, accountability, care and respect and foster both
 disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches (see section 3D). We will i) ensure training around
 all aspects of research ethics and integrity, effective research governance and open access for
 researchers at all levels; and (ii) echoing the UKRI open data mandate, as described in the
 Concordat for Open Data, we will ensure all data and metadata are deposited into EIDC, BODC
 and online repositories such as Genbank, PANGAEA metadata repository for Earth and
 environmental sciences, the D4Science virtual research environment and DataCite open. The
 Unit continues to support and encourage pre-print submission onto BioRxiv and EarthArXiv, with
 open publication of R Markdown, PERL and Python scripts via DRYAD, figshare, GitHub and
 equivalent open repositories.

 1C. IMPACT STRATEGY

 Translating research excellence into non-academic impact is central to our research
 ethos and embedded within our strategy. Our case studies showcase the global reach of our
 translational research activity, highlight the spectrum of end-users, stakeholders and policy
 makers that benefit, and illustrate the UoA impact strategy in practice. For example, they
 highlight global and transformational influences on greenhouse gas reductions (Smith-P), direct
 and substantial influence on industry and the economy (Bond, Schofield-N) and major influences
 on national and international construction practices and decision-making (Thompson). These are

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 only a proportion of our activity that is benefitting the awareness, attitude, behaviour, capacity,
 performance, policy, process and understanding of various end-user groups, from local
 community to government and industry. Other examples of our research programmes with a
 positive impact locally, nationally and internationally, across a range of REF-defined areas of
 impact, include:

 1) Telfer’s research on ecological, environmental and socio-economic drivers influencing the
 spread of plague, leptospirosis and hantavirus in Madagascar that impacts on the health and
 wellbeing of people and animal welfare and control of diseases in developing countries.

 2) Paton’s research developing technologies for the sustainable remediation of contaminated
 land and water that levered Scottish Government and Scottish Enterprise investment funds and
 contributed to innovation through the delivery of new products that led to spin out companies
 generating economic benefits and jobs (Esh Remedios and Epona Technologies).

 3) Norton and Price’s work around sustainable rice production that has provided gains in
 productivity realised as a result of research led changes in practice around the water saving
 capabilities of alternate wetting and drying regimes for rice paddy cultivation and the
 identification of rice varieties carrying genomic loci for traits relevant to sustainable production.

 4) Lambin, Burslem and Travis’s Newton-funded multidisciplinary research on alien invasive
 species management in South America that will protect biodiversity, conserve natural resources
 and preserve rural livelihoods.

 5) Reid’s work building on a REF2014 impact case study that has put in place a range of
 conservation measures including habitat management, parasite treatment and supplementary
 feeding to help prevent the extinction of threatened red-billed choughs in their remaining Scottish
 populations.

 6) Hurst’s long-standing research into the identification, assessment and management of
 petroleum reservoirs in sand injectites is in its 4th cycle of funding by industrial consortia,
 contributing to economic development and wealth creation.

 7) Howell’s SAFARI (Sedimentary Architecture of Field Analogues for Reservoir Information)
 research consortium is also in its 4th cycle of funding and provides an on-line resource of virtual
 outcrops to aid reservoir assessment for a wide range of industrial partners and sponsors.

 8) Phillip’s work on the long-term impacts of flooding on rural communities has informed
 government on the health and well-being consequences of extreme floods on economically
 fragile communities.

 Our strategy to maximise impact from our research is structured around the following routes:

 1) Development of a high-quality research portfolio addressing key societal issues - the
 foundation of our approach to the generation of impact from research is to develop and
 direct a portfolio of internationally excellent research activity addressing end-user
 demand and grand societal challenges. A major University-wide research mapping exercise
 by Lusseau used machine learning techniques to align all the University research outputs within
 the REF period to UN Sustainable Development Goals to identify novel areas of inter-, multi- and
 transdisciplinary collaboration that were previously refractory. This is used to coordinate
 researchers across disciplines and provide horizon-scanning capability for emerging research
 opportunities that ensures that research emphasis is underpinned by societal need.
 2) Researcher training - Impact training is embedded in staff development programmes for
 researchers at all levels. The University Researcher Development Unit, with School-based
 dedicated Research Development Advisors, deliver tailored training on how to consider and
 deliver impact from development through execution of a project. We provide workshops, good-

                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practice case studies and networking opportunities which focus on knowledge exchange,
 development of pathways to impact plans, communicating research to the public, interacting with
 end-users, entrepreneurship and research commercialisation (see section 2A).

 3) Engagement with stakeholder and decision-making groups (see section 4A) – We recognise
 that impact is maximised through effective and recursive engagement with key end-user
 groups. This ensures that our research is both relevant and developed in partnership, and that
 Unit staff are positioned to influence research priorities and future research agendas to place us
 at the forefront for new and emerging areas. Our relationships with end-users are based upon
 successful, long-term interactions (e.g., NatureScot, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds,
 James Hutton Institute, Centre for Ecology & Hydrology, Beckley Foundation). Likewise, in the
 geosciences, we have long-standing collaborations with a wide range of strategic partners in the
 energy industry, with Joint Industry Projects involving both major corporations and smaller
 companies. Relationships are maintained by inclusion of end-users in student supervision and
 as collaborators on research grants, by researcher and student placement in end-user
 organisations and by funding research showcasing events, colloquia, meet-and-greet and catch-
 up sessions and workshops relevant to industry, policy makers and practitioners. We support
 and encourage staff to participate on Boards, Committee and Advisory Groups where there are
 clear opportunities for end-user engagement and to leverage impact and influence (see section
 4). We have high-level engagement at national and international policy levels (e.g., Science
 Advisory Board to UK Global Food Security programme (Smith-P), ESA/NASA working group on
 Mars/Exo Rover (Martin-Torres)), which allow us to inform practice at the highest levels of
 decision-making.

 4) Public engagement and knowledge exchange – (i) The Unit has embedded researcher–led
 public engagement, supported by a dedicated Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERU) to
 assist in the implementation and promotion of the strategy. Unit staff exploit events such as Café
 Scientifique, Café Med, Café Controversial and Café Light; Techfest, Aberdeen’s annual science
 festival; and Word, Aberdeen’s annual literary festival, to maximise dissemination of results and
 impact; (ii) We provide dedicated internal funds to promote impact and Knowledge
 Exchange (KE). These include a central Knowledge Exchange and Transfer Fund to pump-
 prime projects that enhance relationships with industry, public or third sector partners;
 discretionary funds held by Institute research directors to invest in KE activity; and (iii) maintain
 close links with our dedicated Communications Team (CT), which forms the critical link between
 researchers and public through local, national, specialist and international media. The CT issues
 around 400 press releases a year in addition to regularly placing stories with key media and
 identifying researchers for expert comment (see section 3B).

 5) Exploitation of commercialisation potential – The Unit is supported by the central
 Research and Innovation (R&I) team (see REF5a) of business development and
 commercialisation professionals to embed intellectual property (IP) agreements in all research
 awards, translate research excellence into commercial application and develop and direct
 knowledge transfer activities. There are dedicated R&I staff in SBS and SG to ensure the most
 appropriate routes to impact are identified and exploited. They help develop a researcher’s
 impact plans and provide administrative and logistical support to ensure its implementation,
 including protection of IP, patent application and spin-out companies (see section 3B).

 Section 2. People
 2A. STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 Our staffing policy is centred on: (i) the appointment of scientists who are world-leading in
 their fields or are early career scientists on an upward trajectory towards becoming future
 research group leaders; (ii) a strong commitment to the development, training and
 mentoring of researchers at every stage of their career, from doctoral training, through ECR
 and to the professional development of established academic staff; and (iii) nurturing an
 environment that promotes opportunity, equality and inclusion. This, in turn, has also


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sought to build capacity in key areas, further interdisciplinarity, facilitate succession planning and
 has resulted in a more diverse researcher community.
 The REF period has seen considerable turnover of staff in both SBS and SG, which has allowed
 for pro-active aligning of appointments with research priorities and strategy. Since 2014, we
 have appointed 32 new staff across SG and SBS, providing a balanced complement of career
 stages within the submission (33 Professors, 9 Readers, 21 Senior Lecturers, 15 Lecturers and
 11 ECR fellows). These new appointments exemplify our dual strategy for recruiting both
 established group leaders who already have international reputations and supporting ECRs with
 exceptional promise. Two Chair level appointments (Martin and Zorzano) have established the
 Planetary Atmosphere and Surface Process research cluster extending and expanding research
 capacity within SG, plus facilitating interactions with SBS through common interests in remote
 sensing and extreme environments. SBS has also recently completed a major initiative to recruit
 early career postdoctoral researchers (Bodie, Fisher, Morimoto, Payo-Payo, Vogwill) into
 academic fellowship positions aligned with current research strengths. These positions mirror
 research fellowship schemes offered by UKRI and equivalent funders and provide the support
 and academic freedom for fellows to undertake independent research and develop their own
 research groups, with proleptic appointment onto academic staff.
 Working with an assigned mentor, all new academic staff prepare a three-year plan of objectives
 which is reviewed annually and forms part of a 36-month probation. New staff have lighter
 teaching and administration loads to allow them to establish their research groups. They are also
 provided with dedicated research laboratory space and are prioritised in resource allocations
 and PhD studentships. Each new start member of staff identifies training needs from the outset,
 and these are met through the course of probation. New staff are provided with mentoring and
 support around grant applications and provided with an allocation of School discretionary funds
 to kick-start research activity and generate preliminary data.
 All staff have a designated Academic Line Manager (ALM) who coordinates an annual review.
 This exercise provides opportunities for staff to reflect on research activity over the previous 12
 months, identify impediments to progress and consider target setting for the coming year. It also
 strategically informs research teaching and administration loads and identifies opportunities for
 staff development for which there is a dedicated budget. A Framework for Academic Expectation
 is provided to enable staff to benchmark their research activity and performance with colleagues
 and achieve equity in teaching and administrative loads for different stages of career.
 Recruitment, training and support of independent research fellows (IRF) is a key part of our
 research strategy. There is an established framework for mentoring postdoctoral staff and an
 application development and mentoring programme for potential applicants that involves a
 “traffic light” system to identify appropriate funding opportunities and provide bespoke support for
 application and career development. Over the REF period we have hosted a number of highly
 prestigious independent fellows, including Aden (Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions - MSCA),
 Bocedi (Royal Society University Research Fellowship), Cochard (MSCA), Feliciano (NERC
 Knowledge Exchange Fellowship), Gilligan (Royal Astronomical Society Fellowship), Gubry-
 Rangin (Royal Society URF), Gormley (NERC KE), Kumari (MSCA), Lee (MSCA), Losdat
 (MSCA), Martin (MSCA), Moseley (Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Fellowship), Mustin
 (MSCA), Ponchon (MSCA), Sheehy (MSCA), Telfer (Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellow),
 Tweddle (NERC KE), Zabala (MSCA). All IRFs who have been awarded a five-year fellowship
 have secured pro-leptic lectureship positions within the University with fast-tracked probation
 (since REF2014: Gubry-Rangin, Telfer, Moseley).
 The University is a signatory, and active implementor, of the Vitae Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and has successfully gained the HR Excellence in
 Research Award in 2014, 2016 and 2018/19, demonstrating alignment with the European
 Charter for Researchers. Our delivery of the Vitae Concordat principles is led by the University’s
 Postdoctoral Researcher Committee, with an action plan to address the principles and
 obligations around research environment and culture, employment practices and professional
 and career development policy and practice for research staff. Our approach for the transparent
 and robust assessment of research quality for any and all purposes is compliant with the

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 principles and practices in the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and
 the Leiden Manifesto, with the University being a signatory of the former. As such, no reference
 to citation metrics (e.g., h-index) are included in job application review, promotion documentation
 or annual review and appraisal.

 We retain a number of Teaching and Scholarship lectureships to support strategic areas. These
 teaching-only positions enhance our research activity by freeing up time to enable researchers
 to maximise research application, output and impact. The success of this strategy is evidenced
 by three members of SBS academic staff with long-term reduced teaching loads being
 elected as Fellows of the Royal Society of London (Prosser and Smith-P to UoA7, and
 Speakman to UoA5) during the REF period.

 We have in place pro-active succession planning with targeted recruitment to ensure there is no
 loss in critical mass or in strategic priorities or research quality as well as an appropriate
 transition period.

 All research staff are supported through the central Grants Academy (see REF5a) during all
 stages of the research grant application - from identifying funding opportunities, stimulating new
 ideas for grant applications through Grant Foundry events and supporting their development, to
 facilitating the effective translation of research excellence into non-academic impact, patent
 applications and spin-out companies (see section 3B).

 2B. SUPPORT TRAINING AND SUPERVISION OF PhD STUDENTS

 The training and development of PhD students is a fundamental component of our
 research strategy. The UoA is has trained and supported a total of 287 students since 2014.
 The Unit is a partner in three UKRI doctoral training partnerships (DTP) and two Centres for
 Doctoral Training (CDT): QUADRAT-DTP (NERC funded), SUPER-DTP (NERC funded),
 EastBio-DTP (BBSRC funded) and NERC funded CDTs in Oil and Gas and GeoNetZero. The
 QUADRAT-DTP is a new partnership between SBS and SG with equivalent Schools at Queen’s
 University Belfast supporting 20 students per year for five years. This provides a major impetus
 for collaboration and a cross-School cohort of students providing critical mass in interdisciplinary
 research. The EastBio DTP is now in its third cycle of funding, having been renewed in 2015 and
 2019, a testament to the high quality of training delivered. This is now the 3rd largest BBSRC
 DTP in the UK, with matched funding from the partnership and industry creating 60 full
 studentships per annum.

 We also recruit students through joint funded strategic partnerships such as with Marine
 Scotland Science, the James Hutton Institute, National Decommissioning Centre, Scottish
 Aquaculture Innovation Centre, the Scottish Government’s HydroNation scheme, and through
 research pooling initiatives including SAGES and MASTS. The University has improved the
 international reach of its PGR programme with its Elphinstone Scholarship initiative, which
 provides a full international tuition fee waiver scheme that allows the best students from across
 the world access to our doctoral training. Since 2014, 12 Elphinstone students from across five
 LMI countries have graduated from the Unit.

 Combined, the Unit welcomes a new cohort of, on average, 21 new PhD students each
 academic year over the REF period, which guarantees a vibrant research community for
 postgraduate research and training. Over the REF period 21 PhD projects have been CASE
 partnered, highlighting our involvement with a range of end-users and stakeholders to support
 translational research and promote applied impact.

 The University Postgraduate Research School (REF5a) oversees all aspects of PhD student
 appointments, training and monitoring of progress. Candidates are selected based on criteria
 that include academic achievement, motivation and potential ability to complete a PhD
 programme and engage as part of a broader postgraduate cohort. Each research student has a

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 minimum of two Aberdeen-based supervisors and an advisor to whom they can turn for
 independent advice. Supervisors undertake mandatory training on effective supervision and
 pastoral care for students and hold at least monthly formal recorded meetings with students.
 Student progress is monitored through six-monthly reviews, providing an opportunity for students
 to reflect on achievement and map out objectives. These are reviewed by the School
 Postgraduate Officer and the Graduate School. A formal 9-month review of progress is made by
 written report, oral presentation and a viva with two members of staff. Students may be
 confirmed for entry into year two, recommended for a remedial programme of work or have
 progress halted. In year 2, students submit a draft manuscript and present a poster at an internal
 “Research Day”. In year 3, students deliver an oral presentation at a postgraduate symposium
 run within each School. At 27 months, students submit a thesis plan and progress is reviewed
 until completion. The success of our training environment is evidenced in our thesis submission
 rate of over 90% for the REF period.

 All PhD students follow a “T-shaped” training model whereby they develop disciplinary
 excellence around a specific research project but also gain a breadth of knowledge and a
 diverse, transferable core and generic skills base to ensure that upon graduation they are
 competitive for a range of different career paths. Development of research skills, transferable
 generic skills and discipline-specific techniques are defined in an individual student’s Personal
 Development Plan. Mandatory training courses include an induction workshop on scientific
 conduct, research ethics and governance, health and safety, project design, scientific writing,
 data handling, statistics, presentation skills, entrepreneurship and knowledge exchange. Central
 to training is the provision of non-academic placement experience for students. This is a formal
 part of training across the DTPs involving a 3-month secondment with a research partner not
 directly associated with the student’s immediate project. This provides students with broad
 experience and outlook and an opportunity to develop skills and experience away from an
 academic environment and helps with employability through development of contact networks.
 We also provide fully funded Research Experience Placements for undergraduate students
 from STEM subjects outside environmental science as part of our QUADRAT DTP to facilitate
 multidisciplinary interaction and widen participation.

 An integral part of our PhD student DTP training is around professional development, which is
 formalised through students attaining a CMI level 7 Certificate in Strategic Management
 and Leadership (QUADRAT-DTP) and a PG Certificate in Researcher Professional
 Development (SUPER-DTP). We encourage all students to gain professional accreditation
 where appropriate (e.g., Royal Society of Biology, Geological Society of London, associate
 fellowship status with AdvanceHE); present their research at international conferences and early
 career workshops; participate in internal and external seminar series; and lead journal clubs and
 research discussion groups. This is exemplified by the Aberdeen Study Group, a student-led
 network that interacts to share and develop coding skills (R, Python, Perl) and tools and
 facilitates co-working around coding and open access issues.
 2C. HOW THE UNIT SUPPORTS AND PROMOTES EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
 Inclusivity is a pillar of the Aberdeen2040 strategy, and the promotion of equality, diversity and
 inclusion is central to the activity and strategy of SBS and SG. The University has a suite of key
 performance indicators around EDI issues and an EDI advisor and EDI oversight group to
 monitor progress, activity and compliance. All new University and School policies are subject to
 a full EDI audit. The University is a signatory of the Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter, aiming
 to improve the representation, progression and success of minority ethnic staff and students.
 Both SG and SBS have a specific Equality and Diversity committee, and separate Athena Swan
 committees leading the Schools’ next stage of accreditation from their current bronze status. All
 staff and students undertake mandatory equality and diversity training with refresher exercises to
 maintain awareness. We blend formal accreditation and procedure with informal approaches to
 raising awareness and providing support around EDI issues. This has been informed by a series
 of University or School led staff surveys that consider how policy and practice could be
 improved. Input has led to an action plan and brought about changes in ways of working that
 include: gender-balanced interview panels for all appointments at any level; inclusion of EDI

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 questions as part of the interview process; including a male and female point of contact for any
 job adverts; policy that administrative meetings, seminars and events occur within core working
 hours of 10-00 to16-00; gender-balanced seminar speaker programmes; monitoring and
 adjustment of all electronic and printed material for gender balance and ethnic diversity; family-
 friendly social events; encouraging ECRs to join and lead administration and strategic
 committees; and increased awareness of bullying and harassment procedures.
 Staff returning from periods of leave, including parental leave, other caring responsibilities, or
 after long-term ill health attend a “return meeting” with their line manager to aid the return-to-
 work process. Long-term ill health effects are managed with the professional help of
 occupational health, with reasonable adjustments to working practice, for example, phased
 return, altered start and/or finish times or a period of homeworking.

 The University has a range of policies and practices in place to support the wellbeing of staff
 including: a commitment to consider proposals for flexible working and job sharing from staff; an
 annual leave purchase scheme; wellbeing coordinators and mental health champions within
 Schools; mental health first aid and mental health awareness training for staff; and mental health
 support services. The University runs a Workplace Dignity Network to provide support to staff in
 cases of bullying/harassment, stress, work relationships, work/life balance or mental health
 issues.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3A. INCOME
 Staff submitted to this UoA have achieved around GBP59M of research income since
 2014. This has been awarded from a diverse range of funding agencies reflecting ability to
 attract funds that cut across conventional discipline boundaries, with around GBP22.6M (38.3%)
 coming from RCUK/UKRI, GBP15M (26%) from industry and GBP4.2M (7.2%) from charitable
 bodies. Selected examples of major research grants from across funding sources that highlight
 the global scope of activity and impact include: GBP1M to Telfer from Wellcome to determine
 effects of rodents on plague epidemiology in rural Madagascar; GBP1.1M to Lambin, Burslem,
 Cornulier and Travis from NERC for adaptive management of invasive species in South
 America; GBP1.1M to Geris, Hallet and Soulsby through linked grants from NERC on
 sustainable soil and water management in China; GBP2.6M to Thompson from Beatrice
 Offshore Windfarm Ltd and Moray Offshore Renewables Ltd to monitor effects of deployment of
 renewable energy devices on marine mammal populations; GBP2M to Hurst from a consortium
 of energy companies to improve assessment of sand injectites as petroleum reservoirs;
 GBP1.3M to Smith-P from BBSRC to provide solutions for intensified crop productivity supported
 by closed-loop N cycling in Chinese agriculture; and GBP1.1M to Howell from a consortium of
 energy companies for virtual outcrop tools for reservoir assessment.
 3B. INSTITUTIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
 The University provides support for researchers at all stages of the research process:

 The Grants Academy provides support developing research ideas and identifying funding
 opportunities. This is facilitated through the Grants Foundry programmes within Schools where
 staff are invited to present nascent research ideas to help hone experimental design, identify
 collaboration and recognise appropriate sources of funding. The Grants Academy also supports
 internal funding opportunities to catalyse research and enable knowledge exchange and impact
 success. These include the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Internal Pump-Priming
 Scheme, the Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF), the Core Facilities
 Voucher Scheme and the Research Enhancement Scheme. The enhanced support afforded is
 evidenced by Telfer and Moseley, who used Wellcome Trust ISSF support to help underpin
 subsequent successful independent fellowship applications to the Wellcome Trust.

 The Research Financial Services (RFS) team undertakes project finance planning, with R&I,
 supporting grant review and submission, formation of collaboration agreements, development of

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pathways to impact plans, creation and protection of IP and patent applications. This
 commercialisation support is exemplified by Paton’s spin out company Epona Technologies,
 which was developed through a NERC CASE studentship and evaluated the use of a whisky by-
 product for the remediation of contaminated waters. The technology secured Scottish Enterprise
 Proof of Concept Funding (PoCF) which secured a patent and took the product to market. R&I
 underpinned the cost of a team member to lead Epona Technologies through company start-up,
 director training, IP management and all the other key skills to transform scientists into credible
 entrepreneurs. R&I worked closely with Scottish Enterprise on the post PoCF stage to enable
 Epona Technologies to trade and cooperated with SBS and other parties to host and service the
 company. Once established and trading R&I were essential in the sale of the company to a third
 party, confirming their ability to transition credible IP into genuine value. In the case of
 Remedios/ Esh Remedios (spin out by Paton), R&I were able to work with a fifteen-year-old
 spin-out company in diversifying and updating its offering through Scottish Enterprise funding
 and SBS laboratory support to enable a trade sale to a GBP250K turnover company based in
 the north of England. This redirecting of science and technology deliverables was only made
 possible through innovative collaboration between all of the partners and a recalibration of the IP
 position.

 The Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERU) coordinates downstream knowledge
 exchange, public engagement and research dissemination activity. This includes the University
 Communications Team (CT) which forms the critical link between researchers and public
 through local, national, specialist and international print, broadcast and social media. CT issues
 around 400 press releases a year in addition to regularly placing stories with key media and
 identifying researchers for expert comment.

 IT services provides support on all aspects of research data management and archiving, with
 2TB provided for all staff and individual projects. The Library, Special Collections and Museums
 directorate coordinates aspects of Open Research, running the Aberdeen University Research
 Archive (AURA), our open access repository for data and also coordinating green or gold route
 open access for publications (section 3D).

 3C. FACILITIES
 The University offers a suite of Technology Hubs that are state-of-the-art analytical core facilities
 and provide research advice, training and support around genomics, cytometry,
 chromatography/spectrometry, microscopy/histology, proteomics, qPCR and antibody/peptide
 library screening. Each is managed by dedicated and experienced staff responsible for support
 and training.

 Overall investment in analytical infrastructure and facilities regularly used by Unit staff
 and students since 2014 totals over GBP7M. Key components that underpin research outputs
 through the current REF period include: 1) increased investment in the Centre for Genome
 Enabled Biology and Medicine (CGEBM; www.abdn.ac.uk/genomics) to support increased
 bioinformatics expertise and capacity and updated/expanded multi-‘omics hardware. This now
 includes Illumina MiSeq, NextSeq500, Ion Torrent proton and Oxford Nanopore GridION
 sequencers and a 10x Genomics Chromium system for single cell sequencing applications; 2)
 upgrade of the Maxwell high-performance computing cluster to 1240 CPU cores, 12TB of RAM
 and 1PB of storage; 3) Aberdeen Centre for Electron Microscopy, Analysis and Characterisation
 (ACEMAC), which provides a state-of-the-art nano scale electron microscope facility; 4) flow
 cytometry and cell sorting facility that includes Becton Dickinson and Attune NxT instruments, a
 BioPlex 200 for multiplex bead analysis, an Image Stream for single cell image cytometry and a
 BD Influx cytometric cell sorter; 5) climate controlled experimental evolution facility; 6)
 greenhouse refurbishment with GM growth facilities; 7) Refurbishment of freshwater and
 saltwater aquaria with high biosecurity freshwater pathogen challenge, and associated zebrafish
 breeding facility designed for use of GM models; 8) Skyscan 1072 and Nikon XT225ST MicroCT
 facility; 9) upgraded environmental analytical suite including ICP-MS, LC-ICP-MS, FAAS, HG-
 AAS, FIA, Los Gatos laser spectroscope for liquid/gas stable isotope analysis, field deployable

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Picarro, GC-FID/ECD and TOC; 10) a new rock physics and geomechanics laboratory with high
 pressure/temperature triaxial rock deformation apparatus for strength and permeability testing
 (along with permeameters, porosimeters and acoustic velocity apparatus), funded through
 NERC, Industry and the Oil and Gas Technology Centre (OGTC); 11) development of a Raman
 spectroscopy facility for analysis of sedimentary of organic matter, along with a general upgrade
 of the organic geochemistry suite with GC – MS for C stable isotopes; and 12) Mars environment
 simulator established with ESA funding.

 This analytical investment adds to the world-class array field data acquisition systems and
 interpretation facilities in the following areas, which have been developed or enhanced from
 externally won and internal investment funds. New platforms for earth and planetary observation
 systems include: (1) A new terrestrial LiDAR system. (2) An upgraded and extended fleet of
 UAVs (drones) and associated remote sensing platforms. (3) Two fully instrumented hydrological
 observatories and research catchments (one newly established in the REF period) variously
 funded by ERC, NERC, Royal Society, Carnegie Trust and the Scottish Government. (4) The
 University also invested in the Aberdeen University Geophysics Equipment Repository (AUGER)
 (managed by Cornwell) with new, in-house capability for seismics, magnetometery, ground
 penetrating radar and electrical resistivity tomography for subsurface characterisation. We have
 continued to maintain and enhance the SeisLab computer suite for seismic interpretation funded
 through industrial partnership.

 We have also secured more than GBP600K in major NERC capital equipment grants to
 expand the research infrastructure and facilities available for staff: PolyExESS -
 PolyEXtremophile Environment Simulation System (Piertney), a mobile isotope and GHG
 laboratory (Johnson); and a multi-vis X-Ray CT Scanner (Hallett).

 The University, alongside the Oil and Gas Technology Centre (OGTC; www.ogtc.com) and as
 part of the Aberdeen City Region Deal, has invested GBP38M in the UK National
 Decommissioning Centre (UKNDC.com). This state-of-the-art research and development hub
 was opened in 2019 to partner industry R&D demand with academic capability and skills to
 transform all aspects of the decommissioning process, including extending field and asset life
 and environmental impacts. The NDC funds knowledge exchange postdoctoral fellows and PhD
 students within the Unit (Fernandes, Kuepper, Paton, Piertney) and brokered new industrial
 collaborations (e.g., with Chevron).
 The University has invested GBP39M in a state-of-the-art Science Teaching Hub facility
 (opening 2022) that will consolidate all science laboratory classes. While this is mainly for
 teaching and learning, the building will include dedicated space for public and stakeholder
 engagement, science outreach and conference hosting. It will also provide a unique space for
 research skills training for both staff and PGR students. This facility will also enable focussed
 investment to transform previous teaching and learning laboratory spaces dispersed across
 Schools into multiple group occupancy laboratory space designed and fitted for specific research
 sub-disciplines. This will future-proof research needs aligned with current strategic research
 priorities, enhance capacity, widen applications, upskill the technical and research teams and
 activate new multidisciplinary collaborations.


 3D. RESEARCH INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE, UNDERPINNING ROBUST,
 REPRODUCIBLE AND OPEN SCIENCE

 The University’s Research Governance Framework provides the bedrock for all aspects of
 transparent research integrity and governance, robust and reproducible research practice and
 open data and publication. This framework complies with the Universities UK Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity and the UK Research Integrity Office Code of Practice for Research
 to deliver the highest standards of excellence, honesty, integrity, rigour, transparency,
 accountability, care and respect and foster both disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches.



                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s Research Policy Committee has overarching responsibility for ensuring rigour
 and consistency in our research ethics and governance arrangements, which then reports
 upwards to Senate and Court. There are clear mechanisms in place to monitor research
 governance practice, involving independent scrutiny and assessment by the University Deans
 and Vice-Principal for Research. An annual exercise is also undertaken whereby the data
 provenance of a random selection of publications is verified by research Directors and Deans.

 Research involving animals is governed institutionally by the Advisory Group to the
 Establishment Licence Holder and the Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body, which carries
 out robust ethical reviews on all research proposals submitted to the Home Office as part of
 personal and project licence application. There is a Biological Safety Committee that oversees
 research using genetic modification and wild-type organisms, a separate ethics committee for
 research involving interaction with the public and external bodies through questionnaires and a
 Nagoya Protocol oversight group to ensure compliance around any biodiscovery activity.

 The University and Unit recognise the importance of open research, incorporating the FAIR
 principles (Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability and Reusability) which are being applied to
 Open Access, Data and Platforms/Tools. The University has a policy for Research Data
 Management and all PIs now include a data management plan in research proposals. We
 comply with the UKRI open data mandate as described in the Concordat for Open Data, and the
 University is a member of the Research Reproducibility Network. All data and metadata are
 deposited into EIDC, BODC and online repositories such as Genbank, PANGAEA, D4Science
 virtual research environment and DataCite open. The Unit supports and encourages publication
 of R Markdown, PERL and Python scripts via DRYAD, figshare, GitHub and equivalent open
 repositories. These open data resources are all mirrored on the Aberdeen University Research
 Archive (AURA), our Institutional open access repository managed by the Library, Special
 Collections and Museums directorate. Unit staff have published 115 datasets on AURA since
 2014.

 The strategic use of the RCUK/Wellcome block grant enables gold-route publication of high-
 impact publications with green-route publication for all other manuscripts. The Unit supports and
 encourages pre-print submission onto BioRxiv and EarthArXiv. The University advocates ORCiD
 registration for unique researcher identification through its research governance website.

 Online training resources are available for all aspects of research ethics, open research and
 research integrity and governance. This is mandatory for tenured staff and part of the induction
 activity for new start researchers. This training is also embedded within the core and generic
 training modules for PhD students within the Quadrat DTP.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4A. RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 We have an outstanding track-record of international and national collaboration. Since
 2014, successful collaboration (defined as joint peer-reviewed scientific papers, joint doctoral
 student supervision and joint active grants) by the 87 staff has involved over 900 unique
 Institutions (comprising businesses, universities and government organisations) located in over
 80 countries.

 We recognise that benefits to the wider economy and society from our research are
 maximised though close partnerships with key stakeholders. This ensures that research
 being undertaken is relevant to stakeholder needs, and that staff are positioned to influence
 research priorities and future research agendas. Many relationships with end-users are based
 upon successful, long-term interactions (e.g., Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, Centre
 for Ecology & Hydrology, Marine Scotland Science, Beckley Foundation, NatureScot). Our
 sustained links to the energy industry and contribution to economic activity are well-exemplified
 in the two Impact Case studies of Schofield-N and Bond. These show how industry directly

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefits from our work and respectively show how understanding volcanic intrusions and
 reduced uncertainty in subsurface interpretation aid reservoir management. Thompson’s
 research on the responses of key marine mammal populations to different stages of wind farm
 construction (which led to the development of novel approaches to mitigating the effects of piling
 noise) also yielded significant improvements in the economic viability of offshore
 renewable energy schemes (see Impact case study). Our relationships with end users are
 maintained by staff involvement in science advisory boards (section 4C); inclusion of end-users
 in student supervision and as collaborators on research grants where appropriate; by researcher
 placement in end-user organisations; and by funding research showcasing events, colloquia and
 workshops relevant to industry, policy makers and practitioners.
 The Unit has had a formal alliance with the James Hutton Institute (JHI) since it was
 founded as the Macaulay Institute for Soil Research in 1930. We share joint appointments
 (Taylor), field sites, co-supervision of PGR students, joint grant applications and joint
 infrastructure research bids. Multiple JHI staff have honorary appointments, and this allows for
 multiple collaborations and shared capacity. The Macaulay Development Trust facilitates
 partnership through the funding of blue-sky research projects and innovative infrastructure
 purchases.
 Collaborator networks and multidisciplinary research activity are enhanced through Scottish
 Research Pooling initiatives including the Scottish Alliance for Geoscience, Environment and
 Society (SAGES), Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance (SULSA) and Marine Alliance for
 Science & Technology for Scotland (MASTS) and doctoral training partnerships (SUPER,
 QUADRAT). These involve nine HEI and 27 non-HEI partners from across sectors.
 Our profile and reputation for multidisciplinary research and impact delivery ensures Unit staff
 are invited onto new and emerging research networks and partnerships. This is exemplified by
 Scott being invited to become co-director of the GBP9M EPSRC Supergen ORE Hub
 (www.supergen-ore.net), a multidisciplinary consortium that was established in 2018 to provide
 research leadership to connect stakeholders, inspire innovation and maximise societal and
 economic value in the development and deployment of offshore wind, wave and tidal renewable
 energy.


 4B. AWARDS

 Since REF2014 multiple staff have received prestigious awards or research fellowships.
 Highest profile among these are Smith-P and Prosser being elected Fellows of the Royal Society
 of London (FRS) and Lambin, Redpath, Reid, Soulsby and Thompson as Fellows of the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh (FRSE). Other notable awards include the Dewey Medal of the Geological
 Society (Butler), Marsh Award for Marine and Freshwater Conservation (Thompson), RSPB
 Nature of Scotland Awards (Lambin, Reid, Thompson), Fellowship of the German Academic
 Merit Foundation (Studienstiftung des Deutschen Volkes) (Kuepper), Norwegian Academy of
 Science and Letters (Reid), Einstein Fellowship (Einstein Stiftung Berlin) (Soulsby), Fellowship
 of the Royal Statistical Society (Douglas) and Fellowship of the Institute of Soil Science (Hallett,
 Paton). Smith-P is also named in the world’s highly cited researchers list.

 4C. SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY ROLES

 A key indicator of the wider influence of our research is the range of key science advisory
 roles for industry, government and academia held by staff. Examples include:

 Government/NGO: CEFAS (Marshall), Foods Advisory Committee (Strachan), Food Standards
 Scotland (FSS) (Strachan – Chief Scientific Advisor), French High Council for Evaluation of
 Research and Higher Education’ (HCERES) (Lambin and Rangin), Gesellschaft für
 Tropenökologie (Burslem), International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES)
 (Fernandes, Layton, Scott), IUCN Species Survival Commission (Burslem), Marine Science
 Coordination Committee (UK Government) (Potts), Marine Scotland Science, Science Advisory


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Board (Thompson), Rural Affairs Food and the Environment Strategic Research Board
 (Strachan), Rwanda Mines and Energy Board (Hurst), Scottish Government’s Rural
 Communities Liaison Group (Phillip), Scottish Marine Energy Research (ScotMER) (Scott),
 Scottish Natural Heritage (now NatureScot) (Lambin, Reid, Scott, Woodin - Scientific Advisors).

 Industry: Fisheries Innovation Scotland (Fernandes), Moray Offshore Renewables Ltd
 (Thompson), Glensol Enviroklien-ZA Technical Advisor (Bowden), RAB-UK Technical Advisor
 (Bowden), STW (Inch Cape) Offshore Windfarms (Thompson).

 Science/Academia: American Geophysical Union Fellows Selection Committee (Soulsby), Big
 Van Science (Payo Payo), British Ecological Society (Lancaster), British Ornithological Union
 (Payo Payo), European Geoscience Union (EGU) Geomorphology Committee (Spagnolo), EGU
 Ecohydrology Committee (Geris), ESA/NASA working groups on Mars/Exo Rover (Martin-
 Torres), Geological Society Geo-conservation Committee (Bond), ICS Committee on Space
 Research (COSPAR) Planetary Protection Commission (Zorzano), LifeScanner (Layton), Marine
 Synopsis for Conservation Evidence Initiative (Marshall), Orkney Native Wildlife Project Heritage
 Lottery Fund (Lambin), Royal Society of Edinburgh (Lambin and Lancaster), Royal Society
 Southeast Asia Rain Forest Research Committee (Burslem), South Atlantic Environment
 Research Institute (Piertney – Trustee), Scottish Association of Geosciences, Environment and
 Society (Rea and Spagnolo), Scottish Invasive Species Initiative (Lambin), Spanish
 Ornithological Society (Payo Payo).

 Unit staff are also frequently asked to provide written evidence to both the Scottish (e.g.,
 Fernandes - Culture, Tourism, Europe And External Affairs Committee
 www.parliament.scot/S5_European/Inquiries/
 CTEEA_S5_20_FR_012_HeathCookFernandes.pdf) and UK governments (e.g., Scott -
 Foresight Future of the Sea: A Report from the Government Chief Scientific Adviser
 https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/
 uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/706956/foresight-future-of-the-sea-report.pdf)

 4D. PEER REVIEW

 Participation in the scientific peer review process is an expectation of all staff, with involvement
 reflecting experience. Several staff have chaired or participated on national and
 international grant award committees, including BBSRC (Douglas), British Ecological Society
 (Fisher, Wenzel), Carnegie Trust (Douglas, Piertney), DFG (Hallett, Rangin), ERC (Martin-
 Torres), FCT Portugal (Travis), Academy of Finland (Paton, Piertney, Reid), EPSRC (Scott),
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Marshall, Piertney, Travis), Zoological Society of London
 (Reid), NE Fisheries Science Center (Fernandes), Newton Fund (Burslem), NOAA Alaska
 Fisheries Science Centre Recruitment Processes Programme (Fernandes), Norwegian
 Research Council (Fernandes, Paton), NSF (Scott), NSF- Ecology and Evolution of Infectious
 Diseases Panel member (Strachan), NSERC (Soulsby), Norwegian Research Council (Rea),
 Royal Society Hooke Committee (Rangin), Royal Society Newton International Fellowship
 Committee (Reid).

 The Unit is particularly active and prominent in NERC, with 12 staff involved with the NERC Peer
 Review College (Geris, Hallett, Healy, Kuepper, Lancaster, MacDonald, Mauquoy, Mighall, Rea,
 Redpath, Teh and Travis) and Lambin being Chair of PRC Panel D then E (2014-2016) and
 Piertney being Chair of Panel C (2018-present). Lambin has also been Chair of the NERC
 Global Partnerships Fund (2019 – present). Piertney and Thompson have sat on the NERC
 Special Committee on Seals (2012-2015 and 2015 – present, respectively), and since 2018,
 Piertney has been Chair of the NERC Biomolecular Analysis Facility (NBAF) now NERC
 Environmental Omics Facility (NEOF) Steering Group.

 4E. EDITORIAL ROLES



                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Multiple staff have been journal editors over the REF period, including for Agronomy (Norton),
 Algae (Kuepper), Aquatic Conservation (Thompson), Biological Nitrification Inhibition (Rangin),
 Biomass & Bioenergy (Smith-J), Botanica Marina (Kuepper), Current Zoology (Fisher,
 Pilakouta), EGU SOIL (Malik), European journal of Agronomy (Hastings), Exposure & Health
 (Norton), Fisheries Oceanography (Scott), Frontiers in Marine Science (Payo Payo), Frontiers in
 Plant Science (Norton), Global Change Biology (Smith-P), Global Change Biology Bioenergy
 (Smith-P), Global Ecology and Biogegraphy (Lancaster), Journal of Animal Ecology (Lancaster),
 Journal of Hydrology and Hydromechanics (Hallett), Marine Biotechnology (Kuepper), Nutritional
 Ecology (Wenzel), Progress in Oceanography (Scott), Royal Society Open Science (Smith-P),
 Scottish Geographical Journal (Mighall, Phillip).

 Staff have also been active on broader editorial review boards of international journals. These
 include: Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment (Smith-P), Andean Geology (Hartley), Annals of
 Applied Biology (Price), Arktos (Rea), Biological Invasions (Bodeh), Canadian Journal of
 Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences (Marshall), Conservation Genetics (Piertney), Current Opinion in
 Environmental Sustainability (Smith-P), Current Research in Environmental Sustainability
 (Smith-P), Earth & Environmental Sciences: Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh,
 (Alsop, Soulsby) Ecological Reviews (Burslem), Environmental Microbiome (Rangin),
 Environmental Archaeology (Mighall), Environmental Science (Paton), European Journal of Soil
 Science (Hallett), Fish and Fisheries (Marshall), Experimental Results (Bowden), Food & Energy
 Security (Price), Functional Ecology (Pilakouta), Geomorphology (Spagnolo), Geografia Fisica e
 Dinamica Quaternaria (Rea), Geosciences (Alsop), Global Change Biology (Hastings),
 Greenhouse Gas Management & Measurement (Smith-P), Geosphere (Bond), Hydrogeology
 Journal (Comte), Hydrological Processes (Soulsby), Hydrology and Earth System Science
 (Geris), International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability (Smith-P), Journal of Animal Ecology
 (Piertney), Journal of Evolutionary Biology (Lancaster, Piertney), Journal of Geodynamics
 (Stephenson), Journal of the Geological Society (Alsop, Gilligan, Hartley, Stephenson), Journal
 of the North Atlantic (Schofield-E), Journal of Structural Geology (Alsop, Butler), Land
 Degradation and Development (Smith-P), Marine and Petroleum Geology (Bowden) Microbiome
 (Rangin), Molluscan Research (Layton), Oikos (Travis), Pedosphere (Hallett, Smith-P), Plant
 Ecology and Diversity (Burslem), Sedimentology (Brasier), Soil (Hallett), Solid Earth (Gan), Soil
 Biology & Biochemistry (Paton), Special Publications of Geological Society of London (Butler),
 SPE Formation (Hastings), Vadose Zone Journal (Hallett), Water, Air & Soil Pollution (Paton).

 4F. CONFERENCE ORGANISATION

 Staff have been actively involved in the organisation of conferences including the International
 Conference on Environmental Impacts of Marine Renewable Energy Technologies (EIMR)
 (Scott), 14th Symposium on Bacterial Genetics and Ecology (Rangin), 16th Archaea Network
 (Rangin), 20th European Nitrogen Cycle Conference (Rangin, Prosser), 21st European Meeting in
 Evolutionary Biology (Pilakouta), Sea Scotland (Payo-Payo), as well as many sessions at the
 annual European Geoscience Union and American Geophysical Union meetings. Additionally,
 Smith-P is contributing to the COP26 Universities Network published briefs (particularly the brief
 on nature-based solutions) being prepared for the upcoming COP26 conference and is also on
 the organising group for the forthcoming “ClimateExp0” conference.




                                                                                           Page 21
