Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a) Unit Context

UoA4 is located in the Department of Psychology, within the School of Law, Social and
Behavioural Sciences. Psychology was established at Kingston in 1996 and received British
Psychological Society (BPS) accreditation in 2001. The Unit is comprised of 19 staff (18 FTE)
including 3 Professors and 3 ECRs. Since REF2014 the Unit’s research activity and productivity
have been driven by the appointment of research-active staff, an emphasis on PhD student
recruitment and completions, and investment in research support. This growth is evidenced by the
steep rise in external grant income, more than 6-fold between REF cycles, from £35K for
RAE2008, to £214K for REF2014, to £1,392K in the current census period. The department
reported no PhD completions for RAE2008 and 2 completions for REF2014. In the current census
period, 16 students (plus 1 wholly overseas) completed their PhD, and 2 students will defend their
thesis in the first half of 2021. The challenge has been to maintain this growth and enhance the
quality of the research. Six key strategic aims that are designed to meet this challenge are
discussed in (c) below.

b) Unit Structure

Research is managed by a chair-level appointment (Director of Research, DoR) and organised into
four research groups: Clinical and Applied Behavioural Research; Art, Cognition/Creativity and
Emotion; Developmental Psychology; Social Psychology. Staff and PGR students are affiliated to
at least one of these groups; groups in turn are led by a senior researcher. Research groups must
be approved by the School Management Group and there is a role descriptor for group leaders; the
groups are subject to regular review.The research groups primarily support researcher
development and provide peer review, specifically in relation to manuscript preparation by ECRs,
the development of funding proposals, and the realisation of impact. Meetings are timetabled to
prevent clashes with teaching. The UoA also hosts Back’s Developing Mind Laboratory,
Felisberti’s Emotion, Cognition & Behaviour Laboratory, and Vallée-Tourangeau’s Creative
Cognition Laboratory. Details of group and laboratory activities and achievements are given in
section 4a. Interdisciplinary research is supported by the involvement of UoA staff with a University
Research Centre of Excellence based in the School, the Centre for Research on Communities,
Identities and Difference. The Unit also works in close collaboration with researchers from the
School of Life Sciences, Pharmacy and Chemistry. For example, Petróczi (Professor of Public
Health, UoA3) works at the intersection of psychology, sports science and public health to achieve
impact for the Unit, and Terry has worked closely with Professor Mark Fielder (Professor of
Medical Microbiology, UoA 3) on recent COVID-related research.

c) Research Strategy

Six strategic aims underpin efforts to consolidate and sustain the growth achieved over the last 10
years: (1) enhance impact and build research networks; (2) foster an inclusive research culture; (3)
grow PGR numbers; (4) normalise capture of external research funding; (5) adopt open science
practices; (6) invest in infrastructure.

1. Enhance Impact and Build Research Networks. The Unit’s core is composed of mental health
researchers whose work often translates into actionable recommendations to improve people’s
wellbeing across the lifespan. This core group has had the most success in securing external
funding (ESRC, the Fetal Medicine Foundation, QNRF, NIHR, the Nuffield Foundation, WADA, the


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
International Olympic Committee, the British Academy) and in translating research into impact (see
section 1d.)
Key support for the development of collaborative, interdisciplinary research by the UoA is the
Centre for Research on Communities, Identities and Difference (CResCID), a University-accredited
Centre of Research Excellence (2016). CResCID benefitted from the creation of the School of Law,
Social and Behavioural Sciences in 2017, and researchers from UoA4 are key contributors;
Samara is a co-leader of the centre. Its focus is on multi-disciplinary research and collaborative
activity across fields within the social sciences that otherwise rarely work together to produce
innovative research. Activities bring together psychology researchers with academic colleagues
from departments across the School: Sociology; Criminology; Politics and International Relations;
Economics; and Law. The three main research themes are: (i) social justice, inequality and
security; (ii) migration, economic development and international human rights; and (iii) improving
health and wellbeing across communities. Collaborative research between the Departments of
Psychology, Criminology and Sociology has explored, for example, the impacts of community
division and trauma on mental health (Samara), community-level interventions to address alcohol
misuse (Terry), social care provision in a cross-cultural context (Vandrevala), and how religious
identity arises and influences behaviour (O’Dwyer). The Department of Psychology has recently
launched a popular BPS-accredited MSc in Forensic Psychology, and the emerging team of
researchers in forensic psychology form natural synergies with colleagues in the Departments of
Criminology and Law to develop novel research-informed interventions (Theobald, Livanou,
Tapp). CResCID has also served as a focus for links between some of these collaborative projects
and research projects in the Joint-Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education (including
externally funded work by Vandrevala in collaboration with St George’s, University of London).
CResCID offers pump-priming awards of up to £2,800 for members to develop collaborative
projects within or outside of the Centre.

The School organises, twice a year, research awaydays to foster interaction between researchers
from across the School. Additionally, every year since 2014 the UoA has contributed to the
organisation of a School-wide event (‘Themed Week’) which addresses a specific interdisciplinary
research theme agreed by the School Research Committee (e.g., Mental Health in Challenging
Times in 2019); all teaching is suspended to allow for a full, week-long programme of presentations
and workshops led by internal and external researchers, practitioners and policymakers. Building
on the last themed week, the School also launched a series of public lectures, workshops and
panel discussions extending from 2019-20 entitled Conversations about Mental Health and the
World We Live In, organised by Nikcevic. In support of World Mental Health Day in 2018, Vyas
organised a department-led symposium with contributions from MIND and regional wellbeing
services. Other research networking events are further described in Section 4.

2. Foster an Inclusive Research Culture. Staff are encouraged to develop their research profiles at
all stages of their career, supported by Kingston’s academic career development framework known
as ‘Domains’. The research domain has clearly articulated standards, expectations and quality
thresholds at each career stage. Staff agree their research domain in discussion with their line
manager through annual appraisal. Those with a research domain of 30% or more have been
identified as having significant responsibility for research as outlined in the University’s REF Code
of Practice; in UoA4, 66% of all eligible staff have significant responsibility for research and are
research independent.

School policy requires that at least one day per week be kept free from teaching commitments and,
for those with a research domain, dedicated to research. The teaching curriculum is reviewed to
ensure that it is research informed: wherever possible, staff are expected to leverage their own
research activity for pedagogical purposes. Our efforts to support early career researchers to
ensure that they contribute to and enhance our research productivity are described in Section 2a.

3. Grow PGR Numbers. The Unit has built PGR numbers by securing external funding, by
receiving Kingston University-sponsored studentship awards (5 since 2014) and by supporting self-
funding PGR students through paid teaching/research work wherever appropriate. To ensure that

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
growth is not compromised by poor progression rates, a revised and more rigorous application and
interviewing process was put in place during the 2015-16 academic year (see Section 2b below).
Also, since 2014, PGR students have been required to complete an assessed, 60-credit
psychology-specific research training programme (PS7012 Research Skills in Psychology) in order
to transfer from MPhil to PhD registration (see Section 2b). Popular L7 programmes — MSc
Behavioural Decision Science, MSc Child Psychology, MSc Clinical Applications of Psychology,
MSc Psychology (Conversion) — have also served as feeder routes for PGR recruitment.

4. Normalise Capture of External Funding. The UoA adopts the School policy that all FTEs with a
domain in research should make at least one application for external funding per annum; targets
for the level of research income sought are determined by experience. The School has
implemented a peer-supported, competitive semester-long sabbatical scheme, primarily for the
preparation of substantial funding applications; 1 sabbatical per annum has been awarded to
researchers in UoA4 since 2014 (2 in 2018-19). One of these (2016, Samara) led directly to an
award as PI of U$D720k, from the Qatar National Research Fund (QNRF) of which U$D89k was
direct to Kingston. In the current census period, 118 bids for external income have been submitted
by 24 different members of staff, with a success rate of 20%. Draft proposals are submitted to an
internal peer review college and detailed feedback is provided to help strengthen the proposal.
Researchers must address the feedback, and compliance is monitored by the Research, Business
& Innovation (RBI) Directorate.

5. Adopt Open Science Practices. Kingston psychology researchers acknowledge that the
reliability, accuracy and reproducibility of research are best achieved by increasing transparency at
all stages of the research cycle, namely by engaging in open science practices. Kingston
Psychology is part of the UK Reproducibility Network. An Open Science Roadshow was
inaugurated during the 2019-20 academic year to disseminate open science practices; the core
principles are also woven into the research methods curriculum for PhD students in the
Department of Psychology (through the mandatory training, PS7012 Research Skills in
Psychology). Training sessions on open science are also provided centrally (via the Graduate
Research School (GRS), tailored to PGR students and ECRs in particular). Zloteanu is a Centre
for Open Science Ambassador. Vallée-Tourangeau supervises a doctoral project (by Emma
Henderson) for which all of the empirical work has been published as registered reports (in
Collabra, Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, and the Journal of Cognition), one of the first such PhD
theses in the UK. Henderson was supported by a full university studentship, and regularly presents
on pre-registration at research training events hosted by the GRS. In collaboration with other
Kingston researchers, Vallée-Tourangeau has also presented on the challenges facing
psychological science and on open science practices at the annual faculty conference.

In addition, making research outputs widely available reflects the institution’s commitment to
raising the profile of Kingston University research, increasing the potential for research
collaborations, and making the results of research more accessible to the public. The University
has adopted a green approach to open access: researchers self-archive their research outputs in
the University’s Research Repository. The University provides funding for article processing
charges associated with gold open access; this is additional to the RCUK contribution to article-
processing charges for RCUK-funded work. Applications for gold open access funding are
reviewed by the Faculty Associate Dean for Research to confirm suitability and compliance with
the University’s policies. All requests from UoA4 to date have been approved.

Authors of journal articles are required to ensure that their publications include a statement
describing how and on what terms the supporting data may be accessed. The University has
developed a Research Data Management Policy which supports staff and research students in
making their completed research data openly available for re-use unless protected by appropriate
exemption or exception.

Library and Learning Services (LLS) provides advice to researchers on Open Access procedures
and supports researchers using the Research Repository. The RBI office provides guidance on
individual funder policies including grant terms and conditions and REF Open Access. The
                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University’s policy is reviewed on an annual basis, or when necessitated by external policy
changes, by LLS and RBI. Proposed amendments are reviewed by the University Research
Committee.

6. Invest in Infrastructure. The University invests its QR income based on a needs analysis and on
plans related to UoA requirements. Between 2015-18, the University has supplemented this
provision with over £1M, the majority of which has been invested in supporting the development
and transformation of research areas. UoA4 received Research Transformation Funding for 2017-
2019 to strengthen infrastructure and technical support. The UoA invested in recruiting a
postdoctoral research associate, (1) to disseminate technical expertise relating to the use of
research equipment that was acquired over the last 5 years, in particular Biopac, Eyelink and EEG;
(2) to transfer knowledge and build capacity relating to programming skills for experiments (Matlab,
Eprime, Experiment Builder); (3) to develop and implement an online testing platform for
conducting experiments remotely. A web-based suite of psychometric tests was created that is
available to all staff and PGR students. The School has continued to support the postdoctoral
researcher position from 2019 to the present. Section 3b provides more details on infrastructure
investment.

d) Impact Strategy

The Unit’s impact strategy is centred on (i) achieving impact from its work in the areas of health
and wellbeing, building on national and international collaborative links; and (ii) implementing
research-led changes in practice through developing long-term relationships with regional
community organisations in London and the Southeast. The impact strategy is supported by a
faculty-facing Impact Development Manager, part of the Research, Business and Innovation (RBI)
team, who provides assistance in impact development, evidence and evaluation.

(i) Examples of how the unit has developed national and international impact in the field of health
and wellbeing include:

(a) Vandrevala conducts work on ethnicity and healthcare provision. In June 2020, she was invited
    to present her work on barriers to health testing and immunisation among ethnic minority
    communities to the Cabinet Office (organised by the Open Innovation Team); over 100 cabinet
    officials attended. Subsequently, in October 2020 Vandrevala was invited to join the
    Independent Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours (SPI-B), a sub-group of SAGE,
    to advise on the COVID-19 pandemic response in relation to vulnerable and hard-to-reach
    groups. Vandrevala’s role in SAGE builds on her work on developing interventions to improve
    uptake rates for hepatitis B and C testing in migrant Asian communities living in the UK (funded
    by NIHR). Vandrevala’s team produced a culturally-tailored educational intervention to raise
    awareness of viral hepatitis and its testing, and address related barriers in a manner sensitive
    to the needs of this group. Vandrevala and her colleagues were subsequently successful in
    winning 1 of the 6 prestigious COVID-19/BAME project awards from UKRI/NIHR. Vandrevala
    has also developed an intervention to alert pregnant women to the risks of congenital
    cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection. In her NIHR funded study (2017-20), Vandrevala developed
    and tested a short educational film to be included as part of routine antenatal care in the NHS.
    She also successfully secured another grant from the NIHR Policy Research Programme (PRP)
    (2020-21) to consider how guidance on CMV can be incorporated into policy and routine care.

(b) Samara is conducting research into bullying and cyberbullying (funded by QNRF), which has
    had a significant impact on anti-bullying policy and practice in Qatar and the Arab sector in
    Israel. All psychologists and social workers working in Qatari schools and pediatricians working
    in hospitals as well as in the Arab sector in Israel were trained by Samara on anti-bullying
    interventions and policies. The impacts are: (i) the implementation of research-informed anti-
    bullying policies and resources by schools in Qatar and the Arab sector of Israel; (ii) training
    practitioners at the Islamic and Family Courts in Qatar and the Arab sector in dealing with
    bullying, family violence, child abuse and neglect; (iii) changes in the way practitioners (e.g.,
    psychologists and paediatricians) deal with cases of victimisation, abuse and neglect and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   through new diagnostic tools for hospital-based clinicians. Samara (funded by QNRF) also
   conducts research with the Islamic University Gaza and the Ministry of Education in the
   Palestinian Territories, and Hamad Medical Corporation Hospital in Qatar to improve trauma
   and PTSD treatment among children and adolescents in the Palestinian Territories, Qatar and
   Syrian refugees. Three major interventions were developed as a result of these projects: (i) a
   school-based intervention in the Gaza Strip; (ii) training of psychologists in Qatar and the Gaza
   Strip on Trauma Focused Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, applied to all children with PTSD; (iii)
   research with refugee charities in the UK, leading to the development of interventions that
   improve the wellbeing of refugee children. Samara’s work on toxic stress and PTSD in children
   was also showcased in a recent collection of reports funded by World Innovation Summit for
   Health (WISH) and published by the British Medical Journal. Finally, Samara’s work in Qatar on
   the impact of premature birth on readiness for school (funded by QNRF) led to new training for
   all neonatologists and therapists (physio, occupational, speech) at the Neonatal Intensive Care
   Unit (NICU) and Child Development Centre (CDC) at HMC in Qatar. (See ICSUoA04Samara2).

(c) Nikcevic, supported by the Fetal Medicine Foundation, examined the psychological impact of
    screening for preterm preeclampsia (PE) and participation in the Aspirin for Evidence-Based
    Preeclampsia Prevention (ASPRE) trial on women's experience of pregnancy. Nikcevic's
    research informed understanding of the emotional impact of a positive PE screening test result,
    as well as of the attitudes that women hold towards screening for preterm PE and towards
    prophylaxic intervention (i.e., aspirin intake). The findings indicated no significant adverse
    psychological effects of PE screening; however, some women at high-risk of preterm PE were
    found to hold representations of their risk-status and treatment options that were not aligned
    with those of medical professionals. These findings will inform policy with regards to PE
    screening and prophylaxis becoming widely available in the NHS. The outcomes will also inform
    the development of counselling protocols for high-risk women during the decision-making phase
    (namely, whether to take medication to reduce the risk for preterm-PE or not).

(d) El Asam is leading a project on high-risk online experiences among vulnerable young people.
    The research suggests that offline vulnerability extends to online life, implying that enhanced,
    targeted online safety education and support is required. The research informed the Vulnerable
    Children Report, commissioned by Internet Matters, a non-profit organisation to support and
    empower parents and carers to keep children safe in the digital world, launched at a meeting
    held at Westminster led by the Minister of State for the Department for Digital, Culture, Media
    and Sport.

(e) In addition, impact from psychology research in areas of health and sports policy is generated
    by Petróczi (submitted in UoA3). Her research into the behavioural aspects of doping in sports
    in conjunction with the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has led to the development of
    psychometric measures and novel methodologies that have been incorporated into WADA’s
    education policies and practice. (See ICSUoA04Petroczi1).

(ii) Our strategy over the last five years has also been to implement research-led changes in
practice through developing long-term relationships with organisations in London, Surrey and the
Southeast. In particular, Tapp works at Broadmoor Hospital and conducts work on transitioning
between secure inpatient services (for patients, carers and staff); Broadmoor Hospital also hosts
postgraduates from our Forensic Psychology MSc programme for research placements. Similarly,
postgraduates from the MSc Clinical Applications of Psychology programme have worked with a
regional social enterprise (the Recovery Initiative Social Enterprise, RISE) to implement research-
led practice in the management of people in recovery from drug problems and other mental health
problems. We also apply the same approach with two refugee charities with which we have
conducted research (Paiwand and Klevis Kola) and other charities working with children with
special needs (Pyramid, Place2Be, UK Young Autism Project and Yorda Adventures). In addition,
we have established strong connections with Kingston Hospital and its Dementia Department, to
accept students for placements and research work. In this way, psychology research at Kingston is
becoming fully integrated with the local community on a long-term basis. We have also served the
local community on a project-by-project basis. The University’s Business Development Managers

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
liaise with external agencies to develop links and arrange contracts and fees where necessary.
This has included liaising with The Royal Borough of Kingston (RBK) and other local service
providers to secure tenders for research to inform practice. For example, research supported by
RBK, KingstonFirst and three local nightclubs (Terry) examined how town centre drinking affects
the local community and economy, resulting in recommendations via the Kingston Alcohol Strategy
Steering Group that led to changes in policing practices in the town centre.

The University’s Research Development and Business Engagement teams are part of an
integrated service that works closely with Entrepreneurship Education, student placements,
development and alumni relations to ensure that the public, civic and business engagement of our
research and related activities are joined up. The University provides an academic Head of Impact
and an Impact Team to oversee the impact agenda across the University and to advise on
maximising and evaluating impact. The School has also provided financial support for impact, for
example for Samara to visit the Arab sector of Israel and Qatar to establish the networks
necessary to develop his projects reported here. Research impact is incorporated into PGR
student training; it is a standing item on the School Research Committee agenda.


 2. People

a) Staff

Academic appointments are strongly informed by the applicant’s research record of
accomplishment (evidenced by publication quality and potential to generate external income and/or
impact). All new colleagues appointed since 2014 have come from strong research departments:
King’s College London (Martinelli, Theobald), UCL (Zloteanu), University of Surrey
(Vandrevala), University of Siena (Galli), University of Warwick (Livanou). The development of
new taught programmes in forensic psychology (BPS-accredited) has led to new appointments
specifically in that area. In addition to Theobald, Tapp (0.4 FTE) was recruited from Broadmoor
Hospital and will reinforce research links with this key institution. At the close of the last REF
census period we invested £30k in setting up an EEG laboratory to address particular research
demands (Vyas,Terry). We appointed Galli, an established EEG researcher, to provide additional
expertise to leverage this investment and promote EEG work in the unit; Galli’s EEG lab has
already graduated one PhD student, and produced a number of publications based on research
conducted at Kingston (she has also secured external funding). Health research was strengthened
with the appointment of Vandrevala. The appointment has resulted in new collaborative links with
St George’s, University of London and The Royal Surrey County Hospital; it has also led to our first
income from the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR, four awards) and the Dunhill
Medical Trust.

In order for our new appointees to develop productive programmes of research, we provide “start-
up” funds to ensure that they can establish active laboratories quickly. The University has provided
funding for an internal “First Grants Scheme”: the scheme has supported 4 staff from UoA4 (out of
23 across the institution) to undertake preliminary research in support of a significant external
funding application. This has included £10k for transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
equipment for Galli (2 x neuroConn DC-Stimulator-Plus) as well as consumables to support the
EEG laboratory in which she works. This funding has led to grant income from NIHR (Vandrevala).
For all staff, the UoA provides internal funding of up to £1k per FTE to cover a variety of research
expenses, including research assistance and conference attendance.

The University also provides a structured research training programme for ECRs (open to all staff);
there is an ECR Network Scheme which meets bi-monthly and a specific mentoring scheme to
support ECRs. In UoA4, ECRs are mentored by a senior researcher from the unit, typically the
appropriate Research Group lead. The DoR also meets with them every 3 months during
probation. The requirements of ECRs have been specifically considered in the development of the


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University’s updated HR policy and support programmes, which also incorporate a BAME
leadership programme.

Kingston’s Domains framework (see Section 1c above) was designed to facilitate and support staff
career development and advancement at all career stages, giving clear guidance on the
expectations of current and future roles.

b) Postgraduate Research Students

The DoR formally manages research student admissions, supported by a unit-specific research
student coordinator (RSC) and the Faculty-level Research Student Administrator. The DoR and
RSC contribute to Faculty and University strategy relating to PGR students via representation on
the Faculty Research Degrees Committee, which reports to the University Research Degrees
Committee. Annual monitoring and progression transfer is managed through Kingston’s Online
Student Information System (OSIS).

Our growing research student community has been integral to the Unit’s research strategy over the
last 10 years. The unit’s first PhD student graduated in 2008; we now have 24 PhD students
registered. University funds have supported (at least in part) 9 students. Recruitment has also
been facilitated by the growth of external funding achieved over the last 10 years. Seven students
have received support from external research awards: the QNRF and The Hamad Medical
Corporation (Samara), the Fetal Medicine Foundation (Nikcevic), the European Foundation for
Alcohol Research (Terry) and the Dunhill Medical Trust (Vandrevala). Three students (including 1
who has completed his PhD) received funding from overseas governments or agencies (Qatar
Government, Samara). We have an agreement to host research students from the University of
Rome (La Sapienza) for up to one year, and have welcomed 3 since 2014; one subsequently
registered for PhD at Kingston. One of our PhD students (Sarah Geisemeyer) was a visiting
researcher at the University of São Paulo (Brazil), where she carried out genetic screening and
cognitive and emotional testing of children with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. Samara has also
hosted students supported by the Erasmus programs: one from Italy, one from Germany and two
from Turkey; he has also hosted a student from Israel supported by the Israeli Council for Higher
Education, and one from Egypt.

Where appropriate, PhD students are offered the opportunity to teach undergraduate seminars for
remuneration to help support their studies (prioritising self-funding students) and to provide HE
teaching experience (UKPSF-accredited training is provided by the Learning and Teaching
Enhancement Centre). Kingston University’s Graduate Research School provides financial support
for PhD students to attend at least one research conference during their period of registration;
research grants and the unit’s QR have also been allocated to support conference attendance.
Research training is delivered at three levels: Level 1, compulsory generic research training for all
students (e.g., information retrieval, intellectual property); Level 2, Faculty training, primarily
supporting doctoral-level writing and presentational skills; Level 3, subject-specific research
training. In our case, the latter is a formal, taught doctoral programme (60 credits) comprising:
Research Skills in Psychology (30 credits); Research Design and Analysis (30 credits). Students
must pass the 60 credits to transfer from initial MPhil registration to PhD registration. A professor
or associate professor serves as Research Student Co-ordinator for the unit to oversee training;
s/he arranges group meetings approximately every 4 weeks to provide opportunities for students to
present and discuss their work informally with their peers. Students attend and present at the
Research Group meetings and the series of departmental talks by external and internal
researchers. There is an annual PGR cross-faculty student conference at which students in their
second or third years of study are expected to present their research, and all students are
expected to attend. Importantly, the event also incorporates a round-table discussion on career
development with a panel composed of ECRs and more senior academics to discuss their journeys
from final-year PhD students to securing employment in HE or the private sector. Finally, all PhD
students are invited to join a reading group (the Spring Grove Reading Club), led by Vallée-
Tourangeau, that meets every fortnight through most of the year as a journal club, discussing


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
papers primarily on research methodology, advanced inferential statistics, false positive
psychology and open science practices.

The Beyond Barriers Student Mentoring Scheme is available to PGR students to support their
development against equality objectives and our One Kingston strategy for equality, diversity and
inclusion. Students are also supported through the Accessibility Network. The University offers
staff a full fee waiver on research degrees, thereby contributing to their professional development.

c) Equality and Diversity
At the institutional level, 45% of submitted staff are female and 19% assessed as BAME. In the
UoA, 68% of the submitted staff are female and 21% are BAME. Approximately 5% of University
staff have a declared disability, and 5% of the UoA. Our overall academic pay gap is currently
4.9%. Kingston currently holds an institutional Athena Swan bronze award and a Race Equality
Charter bronze award. In 2020, The School of Law, Social and Behavioural Sciences submitted its
application for an Athena Swan bronze award, a project led by Theobald and Vallée-Tourangeau
from the Department of Psychology. During the census period, 4 colleagues in the UoA were
promoted to Associate Professor (all female) and 1 to Professor (male).

Women are supported through the Aurora programme and BAME women through a BAME
leadership programme. The University’s work to embed diversity in academic progression and
promotion received the Guardian Diversity Award (2014). A key objective of Kingston’s EDI
strategy has been to increase the proportion of BAME staff and women in professorial roles. The
University’s Beyond Barriers Mentoring Scheme is one of the strategies used to ensure that all of
our staff have the best possible chance to succeed in their work and progress against equality
objectives. Two colleagues from UoA4 have served as mentors on the Beyond Barriers
programme. The School has also been an important contributor to the Kingston Race Equality
Scorecard, the product of a research partnership with Kingston Race and Equalities Council and
the Runnymede Trust to reduce inequalities for BAME communities.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

a) Income
A continued emphasis on generating external income has been a focus of the unit over the census
period, and we have achieved considerable success in a short time, increasing external research
income by a factor of 6 during the current REF census period in comparison with the previous
cycle. The spread of applications across staff and the range of funding sources have also
increased (as documented in Section 1c). During the current census period we have been
successful in attracting awards from:

   −    NIHR (£220k, Vandrevala),
   −    the Qatar National Research Fund (£555k, Samara),
   −    the Dunhill Medical Trust (£35k, Vandrevala),
   −    the Hamad Medical Corporation (£70k, Samara),
   −    the Nuffield Foundation (£140k, van Herwegen - former staff),
   −    also Baily Thomas charity, the Churchill Trust, the British Academy, the Williams Syndrome
        Foundation, Rethink Mental Health, Sight for Surrey, a Surrey hospital-based charity and a
        community interest company.
In addition, we have received income from ongoing projects funded by:

    −   ESRC (£187k),
    −   the Fetal Medicine Foundation (£62k, Nikcevic),
    −   Dept of Health and Social Care Health & Social Care Volunteer Fund (£31k, Nikcevic),
    −   also the European Foundation for Alcohol Research, British Psychological Society, Royal
        Borough of Kingston and Lowery Ltd.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b) Infrastructure and Facilities

The table below details investment in (and development of) facilities, including support to access
specialised equipment at external laboratories to conduct research:

 Infrastructure                                                Staff           Investment
 Renovated 6 generic research laboratories in 2017             All/general
 (built in 2009) with new networked PCs and furniture
 Renovated laboratories to support eyetracking                 All/general
 experiments:
    − One with an Eyelink 1000 eyetracker;                     All/general
    − One with a Tobii T-120 eyetracker and a Tobii            All/general     £9k, 2014
        X2-60 eyetracker;                                                      University
    − Also available: Tobii Smart Glasses IR and               Back, Vallée-   investment
        software for off-site eyetracking studies              Tourangeau
        (supports a collaboration with Malafouris at the
        University of Oxford).
 Maintenance of laboratory fully-equipped for                  Terry
 psychopharmacology/psychophysiology experiments
 Laboratory dedicated to neuropsychological testing,           All/general
 including:
     − Two CANTABeclipse touchscreen test batteries            Vyas, general   £10k, 2014
         (includes purchase of second 10-year licence);                        University
     − Access to Inquisit software;                            Felisberti
     − Access to MATRICS test battery.                         Vyas            >£2k, 2015
 Web access to the CANTAB test battery and dataset.            Vyas, general   £14k, 2020
                                                                               University
 Driving simulator (XPDS-R3, XPI Research), used in a          Terry,          £25k
 large-scale collaboration between KU researchers from         Felisberti
 Royal Holloway University of London, King’s College
 London and the University of Greenwich.
 2019: Upgrade of observation lab, initially fitted in 2014:   All/general     >£36k, 2019,
 new equipment and software with state-of-the-art                              University –
 remote-access cameras and microphones and                                     competitive
 Observer (Noldus) software to support work.                                   award
 Set up an EEG laboratory in new, dedicated space:             Galli, Vyas     £45k
    − Bio-Semi 32 channel EEG;
    − 2 x tDCS neuroConn DC-Stimulator+ probes).
 Upgrade of Biopac equipment                                   Vyas, Terry     Additional £5k
 3 licenses of Comprehensive Meta-Analysis software            Samara
 Neurodevelopmental Bayley test pack for child                 Samara          Grant funding
 assessment
 Visit to neuroimaging facilities in the US (University of     Vyas            (Subsequent
 California, San Diego; NIH-Child Psychiatry Branch,                           Churchill
 Maryland) for data collection and analysis                                    Fellowship
                                                                               award)
 Visit to Japan (Kyoto University: Dr Miyata and Prof          Vyas
 Murai) to undergo training in DTI imaging in psychosis

Because of the considerable investment in new and upgraded equipment from 2014, the unit
identified a need for additional research/technical support to ensure that staff and PGR students
were able to acquire the necessary skills and expertise to benefit from the investment. To these

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ends, the UoA was supported by the University’s Research Transformation Fund to recruit a
postdoctoral research associate with the necessary expertise to provide this support, which is
ongoing (see Section 1c, 6).

We use the Sona Systems web application to manage research participation (which is a course
requirement for UG and PG students). University investment has also provided funds to support
and maintain a pool of 15 laptops configured with E-prime and Superlab for field work; we also
have a network licence for E-prime and Superlab to support 24 simultaneous users, and since
2014 we have acquired an institutional network licence for Matlab. We have networked access to
Qualtrics for survey work.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

a) Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
Theoretical and Applied Contributions to the Discipline, by Research Group

Developmental Psychology. Researchers in this group, led by Samara, have developed research
programmes of direct relevance to the understanding and treatment of developmental disorders,
bullying, online risk, PTSD, and prematurity; his recent work has provided the most detailed
longitudinal account of the effects of extreme prematurity on cognition and behavioural problems of
infancy. Theobald is part of a team that has conducted a major longitudinal study that has
implicated cannabis use during adolescence as a causative factor for mid-life major depressive
disorder and violent offending. El Asam has been funded to investigate the experience of online
risks amongst vulnerable young people and also the legal consequences of cyberbullying. Finally,
Back has recently published a paper in Child Development using eye tracking data with
neurotypical and ASD adolescents on their ability to infer mental states from naturalistic, dynamic
faces rather than the static faces that are commonly-used in related research.

Clinical and Applied Behavioural Research. Nikcevic is the group lead: her work examines the role
of metacognition across psychological conditions, proposing novel models for understanding
procrastination, nicotine dependence and self-critical rumination. Pavey explores the importance of
health message framing for improved dietary behaviours and promoting safe alcohol consumption.
Vyas’s research with individuals with schizophrenia has shown that reduced dopamine receptor
availability indicates high levels of dopamine in the synapse, and this impacts on executive
functioning in schizophrenia. In recognition of her expertise on health in vulnerable and hard-to-
reach groups, Vandrevala was asked to join the Independent Scientific Pandemic Insights Group
on Behaviours (SPI-B). Vandrevala also won a UKRI/NOHR grant (2020-21) which aims to design
culturally relevant health messages for Black and South Asian groups and deliver these messages
through specific and trusted communications channels, to influence behaviours that reduce the
transmission of COVID-19, such as perceived risks and susceptibility, proximity and social
distancing, and infection control. Terry’s recently-published work on behviours related to
coronavirus transmission risk was conducted before the current pandemic; the work continues as
an interdisciplinary collaboration between Kingston University, Wuhan University and the
EcoHealth alliance (New York, US). Petróczi’s recent work focuses on understanding why clean
athletes do not dope, in order to develop prevention or intervention strategies based on these
insights, in contrast to previous efforts that have focused on the experiences of ‘doping’ athletes.
Tapp has published extensively on factors affecting the readiness of forensic patients to engage
with treatment at secure hospitals.

Art, Cognition/Creativity and Emotion. A multidisciplinary group bringing together a wide range of
research topics, led by Felisberti who works on the dynamic association between perception and
emotions (subsidiaries: mental imagery, aesthetics, empathy), from looking at the importance of
testing mental imagery ability in students enrolling for arts and engineering degrees to how the
childhood family environment affects emotional processing ability in adulthood. Zloteanu’s
research focuses on the role of facial expressions, empathy, and emotion recognition, relevant to

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
training on deception detection. Recent work by Galli has demonstrated how behaviour might be
predicted from physiological markers irrespective of stated intentions. Galli also has an ongoing
international project on the key neural processes that underlie memory formation. Livanou
examines youth mental health, emerging personality disorders and eating disorders, with a focus
on care policies and practice. An established programme of research anchored in 4E cognition led
by Vallée-Tourangeau has shown the importance of action to enhance creative problem solving,
challenging the notion of the individual as the ontological locus of cognition. The research casts
creativity as an emergent property of interacting with physical models of the problem, which in turn
invites a reconceptualization of agency and intentionality in creativity.

Social Psychology. O’Dwyer is the group lead. Her work has generated innovative insights into
important issues in social and political psychology, including attitudes towards and understandings
of foreign policy issues such as drone warfare and neutrality. O’Dwyer also studies citizenship and
political participation, with a current ongoing longitudinal project examining the social and political
implications of COVID-19 mutual aid groups. Researchers in the group also conduct work on
prejudice and discrimination, with a particular interest in the phenomena of hostile and benevolent
sexism.

The Creative Cognition Laboratory (CCL) was set up in November 2018 to build on the
developing research interest in creativity in wide cognition (that is, creativity as something that
arises from the interaction between people and things, as distinct from a brainbound
phenomenon). The CCL is a member of several international networks: an associate of Webster
Centre for Creativity and Innovation in Geneva; invited member of the International Society for the
Study of Creativity and Innovation; and an invited member of the Possibility Studies Network. The
CCL is a named collaborator on the handMADE ERC-funded project with Oxford University. The
CCL has organised three symposia and has supported the organisation of one full conference
since its formation: The Serendipity Society Conference, (September, 2019) which was the first
international conference of serendipity researchers; Creativity Chats (October, 2019) which invited
leading creativity researchers to Kingston University in an extended discussion on the state of the
field; and Serendipity for Cognitive Science (September 2020, online) which invited leading
researchers in cognitive science to discuss and reflect on serendipity and creativity.

Hosting and Organizing Conferences, Symposia and Workshops

The Developing Minds Laboratory in association with the CCL produced two public facing
workshops, Developing Creativity in the Classroom (January 2020; working with teachers), and:
The role of Serendipity in Innovation and Creativity (September 2020, with Norfolk Chamber of
Commerce). In 2019, the Laboratory hosted a public workshop at Kingston University on
Developing Mathematical Abilities and Creativity.

Samara hosted an international conference at Kingston in November 2015: Rethinking Trauma
and Resilience, attended by 150 academics, researchers and professionals. He was also
symposium chair (Children and Youth Exposed to War Trauma and Violence) at the meeting of the
Society for Research in Child Development in March 2015 (Philadelphia, PA). In 2016, Samara
organised a workshop on bullying for schoolteachers, psychologists, social workers, researchers
and physicians in Qatar (attendance, 200). In 2016 Samara organised two training workshops on
the implementation of the Neurodevelopmental Bayley test for developmental psychologists at the
Department of Psychology and physicians and therapists at Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC)
Hospital in Qatar. In 2018 he organised two workshops on TF-CBT for psychologists in Qatar and
the Gaza Strip. Vallée-Tourangeau organised and hosted: The Systemic Cognition Symposium at
Kingston in July 2017; the 3rd International Conference on Language, Interactivity and Cognition at
Kingston in June 2016; and the 6th Distributed Thinking Symposium at Kingston in March 2014. He
also served as Member of the program committee for the 37th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive
Science Society in Pasadena, CA; he has co-organized a symposium on insight problem solving
(symposium proposals were refereed) at the 41st Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science
Society in July 2019. Back is a member of the organising committee for the annual conference of

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the BPS Developmental Psychology Section and organised and led a workshop ASD across the
lifespan for practitioners, researchers and parents at Kingston in June 2017. Back co-organized
the Neurodevelopmental Disorders Annual Seminar in 2017 and a workshop on eye tracking for
developmental disorders targeted at early career researchers. Felisberti was a member of the
Advisory Committee for the Visual Science of Art Conference (Science Museum, Barcelona, Spain,
2016). The Social Psychology group organised a summer school on Doing and Communicating
Qualitative Research at Kingston (2015, 2016 and 2017), focused on imparting principles and
developing skills in qualitative research among both novice and experienced qualitative
researchers. Each Summer School involved leading qualitative researchers as keynote speakers
and workshop facilitators, and attracted well over 100 participants, with some travelling from
mainland Europe and the USA.

External Collaborations

An extensive network of external collaborators scaffolds the unit’s productivity. These
collaborations have led to journal articles and/or grant applications. For example, Back
collaborates with Prof Gaia Scerif (University of Oxford; two grant applications submitted) and Dr
Sander Begeer (Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam). Felisberti has published papers with Prof Kaisa
Tiippana (University of Helsinki), Prof Jiri Lukavský (Czech Academy of Sciences), Prof Maria
Pérez-Fabello (University of Vigo), Prof Kristina Musholt (Leipzig University), Dr Robert King
(University College Cork) and Prof Rebecca Sear (LSHTM). Galli has submitted grant applications
with Prof Fergus Craik (University of Toronto) and published papers with Prof Martin Paulus
(University of California, San Diego), Prof Matteo Feurra (National Research University Moscow),
Dr Emiliano Santarnecchi (Harvard Medical School), and Dr Leun Otten (UCL). O’Dwyer has
papers with Prof Chris Cohrs (Philipps-Universitat Marburg, Germany), and Dr Ahmet Coymak
(Abdullah Gül University, Turkey); Pavey maintains a long-term research programme with Dr Paul
Sparks (University of Sussex) which has led to several publications. Petróczi works closely with the
World Anti-Doping Agency and has collaborated with Prof Norman (University of Sheffield) on anti-
doping education; she leads the Clean Sport Alliance in collaboration with Prof Susan Backhouse
(Leeds Beckett University). Samara has grant-funded work and publications from collaborations
with Prof Neil Marlow (UCL), Prof Peter Smith (Goldsmiths, University of London), Dr Azhar
Khattab, Dr Nader Al-Dewik, Dr Hisham Morsi (HMC Hospital, Qatar), Prof Raija Punamaki
(Tempere University, Finland), Prof Samir Qouta (Islamic University, Gaza), Prof Tariq Madood
(University of Bristol), Prof Nabil Khattab (Doha Institute, Qatar), Prof Dieter Wolke (University of
Warwick) and Dr Mairead Foody (Maynooth University, Ireland). Tapp has published many papers
from his research with colleagues at Broadmoor Hospital and has also submitted NIHR bids with
Prof Birgit Vollm (then of Rampton Hospital, University of Nottingham) and Prof Ruth McDonald
(University of Manchester). Terry publishes with Prof Suzanne Higgs (University of Birmingham),
Dr Leigh Gibson (University of Roehampton) and on coronavirus with Wuhan University (China)
and the EcoHealth Alliance (USA). Theobald collaborates with Prof David Farrrington (University
of Cambridge), Prof Alex Piquero (University of Texas at Dallas), Drs Jean-Baptiste Pingault and
Tabea Shoeler (UCL) and Dr Sagnik Battacharyya (Institute of Psychology, Psychiatry and
Neuroscience, KCL). Vallée-Tourangeau has published and submitted funding applications with
Prof Sune Steffensen (University of Southern Denmark); he is involved in a project on material
engagement and creativity with Dr Lambros Malafouris (Hertford College, Oxford, as part of the
European Research Council Consolidator Grant, HANDMADE, awarded to Malafouris). Since
2014, Vyas collaborates with Dr Nitin Gogtay and Prof. Monte Buchsbaum (NIH-Child Psychiatry
Branch, Maryland; and University of California, San Diego, respectively), leading to the publication
of a PET imaging manuscript on adults with schizophrenia. Vandrevala’s collaboration with Prof
Aftab Ala (the Royal Surrey NHS Foundation Trust, and Kings College hospital) resulted in
securing funding from UKRI and NIHR. Zloteanu is a behavioural consultant to Brainpool AI
(London, UK).




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
b) Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society
Journal Editorial Roles, Grant Reviewing and Media Engagement

Terry is an associate editor of Addiction and an associate editor of Substance Use and Misuse.
Vallée-Tourangeau served on the editorial board of The Canadian Journal of Experimental
Psychology (2013-2018) and is currently a senior editor for Europe’s Journal of Psychology; he is
also co-editing (with Prof Linden Ball, University of Central Lancashire) the Routledge Handbook of
Creative Cognition, due in 2021. Samara is associate editor for the International Journal of Bullying
Prevention and the Journal of Child and Adolescent Trauma and on the editorial board of the
Journal of School Violence. Samara led several special issues in different journals, including the
International Journal of Developmental Science on cultural issues in bullying and cyberbullying and
the International Journal of Emotional Education on the effects of school design, safety and climate
on bullying. Petróczi serves on the editorial board of Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and
Policy. Researchers are regular reviewers for a wide range of journals and funding bodies,
including the ESRC (Felisberti, Back, Vyas, Terry, Samara), MRC (Vyas, Samara) and BBSRC
(Felisberti), the MS Society (Butler), the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research
Foundation, Vallée-Tourangeau), the Belgian FNRS/ Research Foundation Flanders (Terry,
Vallée-Tourangeau), and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada and
the Newton Fund (Felisberti). Vyas serves as a reviewer for the Fulbright Scholar Awards
programme. Samara is on the Management Steering Committee of the European Cooperation for
Science and Technology (COST) programme for the project: Transnational Collaboration on
Bullying, Migration and Integration at School Level (CA18115) and leader of WG5: School Design
& Safety (2019-2023) and a member of All-Party Parliamentary Group on Bullying (APPG) at the
Westminster Parliament (2018- to date).

Samara’s work has led to extensive media interest (BMJ Feature, BBC TV, BBC Online, Al-
Jazeera, Sky News, Huffington Post, Daily Mail, Daily Express, The Guardian, Telegraph online).
Research by Butler, Petróczi, Terry, Vallée-Tourangeau has also featured in the media since
2014 (e.g., The Economist, Newsweek, BBC News, Mail Online, Nature News, THE Higher
Education, Medical Express, The Independent, Men’s Health, Women’s Health, Marie Claire, The
Conversation, Live Science). Vandrevala’s recent work on BAME and COVID-19 has also been
extensively covered in the media (e.g., The Guardian, BBC News).




                                                                                            Page 13
