Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Newcastle University


 Unit of Assessment: UoA1- Clinical Medicine


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 Our UoA1 submission includes 168 staff (159.8 FTE), of whom 66 are clinical academics and 25
 are early career researchers (ECRs). Research in this UoA combines discovery science with
 experimental medicine and clinical translation, supported by parallel programmes of clinical and
 non-clinical career development and training. It is based on a strong university-NHS partnership
 focussed on improving diagnostic technologies, treatments and patient outcomes, recognised with
 the recent award of Academic Health Science Centre status. We describe our progress across 5
 domains: 1) Cancer; 2) Immunity and Inflammation; 3) Long-term Conditions and Ageing; 4)
 Rare Diseases and 5) Regenerative Medicine, Transplantation and Advanced Therapies,
 which map directly to our Faculty and University research themes and Centres. Our academic
 clinical training approach has informed national policy (Jones is NIHR Academy Dean) and we
 cultivate next generation biomedical and clinical researchers through university academic track
 fellowships. There is strong cross-linkage between the UoA1 domains and important
 interdisciplinary links with other UoAs, examples include Neurodegeneration (UoA4); medicinal
 chemistry (UoA8) for Drug Discovery; computing around Digital Healthcare (UoA11); and applied
 health research in the context of trial design, biostatistics and economics of healthcare
 implementation (UoA2). We work with industry partners, particularly in clinical trials (Newcastle
 has been top three nationally for trial activity and patient recruitment in NIHR league tables over
 the past eight years) and drive economic benefit through spin-out creation.

 1.2 Research Strategy

 We pursue research in this UoA through strategic partnerships with Newcastle upon Tyne
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (NuTH) and Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS
 Foundation Trust (CNTW). Our three organisations form the core of our NIHR Academic Health
 Science Centre, Newcastle Health Innovation Partners (AHSC, 2020), alongside Newcastle City
 Council and the Academic Health Science Network (AHSN). Our AHSC aims to discover, develop
 and translate into practice, innovations in healthcare which tackle health inequalities and achieve
 better patient outcomes, thereby improving citizen health and generating economic growth.
 Central to our objectives are our NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) in Ageing and Long-
 Term Conditions and our specialist Clinical Research Facilities, which are jointly managed
 between NuTH and the Faculty, to enable our experimental medicine programmes and
 commercial interactions.

 Developments since REF2014
 We have fully delivered our 2014 strategic objectives by increasing our capacity to pursue high
 quality research with clinical impact.

 We created a Translational Deanery to develop closer working between clinical and discovery
 science researchers, identify translational opportunities and achieve “pull-through” of research.
 We have secured new translation-enabling infrastructure including the NIHR Medtech and In Vitro

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Diagnostic Co-operative, NIHR Innovation Observatory and National Innovation Centre for Ageing
 (NIC-A). Our expanded translational ecosystem now provides commercial expertise through a
 Translator in Residence (Wellcome Trust Translational Partnership, £0.8M), pump-priming funds
 (including £3.7M MRC Confidence in Concept) and a Translational Development support team
 who link researchers to key infrastructure and guide onward applications. Expertise in
 commissioning and adoption comes from strengthened links with the AHSN. Our priming support
 for early translational concepts has led to >£20M in onward projects (including 37 DPFS, NIHR
 EME & HTA programmes). We formed Diagnostics-NE (s3.4) to jointly promote university and
 NuTH infrastructure and expertise to academic and commercial partners. The success of our
 approach is evidenced by the day-to-day clinical impact of our research (see Impact Case Studies,
 ICS) and is recognised in the award of externally-funded research centres, infrastructure and
 networks (see Table). The Deanery continues to evolve and is at the heart of the new Translational
 and Clinical Research Institute.

 Health informatics has been developed at the core of our BRC with links to the University Digital
 Institute (UoA11) and the National Innovation Centre for Data (NIC-D), hosted in Newcastle. This
 expertise is enabling digital healthcare projects using real-time patient data collection for
 monitoring and diagnosis, such as the IDEA-FAST (Sjögren’s syndrome, Ng) and the MOBILISE-
 D (UoA4) programmes. Research can now link with electronic patient records across the region
 where the Great North Care Record covers a population of 3.6 million. This is enabling innovative
 programmes including multimorbidity clustering (e.g. ADMISSION, A.Sayer).

 Leadership of our flagship fellowship programmes aligns with the Dean of Clinical Medicine
 (Clinical Academic Office, s2.2.3) having oversight of the entire clinical academic training pathway,
 and the Dean of Research & Innovation overseeing non-clinical training. We invested in Faculty
 and University fellowship schemes for non-clinical training. Investments in key appointments
 allowed cross-cutting mechanistic themes described in 2014 (e.g. Immunity and Therapeutics) to
 grow in size and become larger primary research areas.

 A new structure for the next decade
 To promote team science and create a research environment which is agile to future challenges,
 we recently restructured our Faculty of Medical Sciences. We moved from six largely
 independently operating and thematically focused institutes to three integrated institutes, reflecting
 the translational research pathway: the Biosciences Institute (NUBI), the Translational and
 Clinical Research Institute (NUTCRI) and the Population Health Sciences Institute (NUPHSI).
 Academics from these institutes work together in research themes spanning the entire
 translational pathway. We deliberately created innovative themes which pull together multi-
 disciplinary teams of researchers, allowing new fields of expertise to be recognised and nurtured.

 Our largest and most comprehensive research areas are recognised within the University as
 Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs, REF5a 2.2), which reach across Faculties and link
 with external organisations and industry to promote global visibility and impact. In UoA1, we
 established NUCoREs in Ageing and Inequalities, Cancer, Healthier Lives, Rare Diseases and
 Regulatory Science. These NUCoREs create new collaborations with academics in the humanities
 (e.g. medical ethics, law, business), and strengthen existing ties with the science faculty (e.g.
 digital health technologies, biomedical engineering) and the NHS.




Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Table. Overview of externally funded research centres, infrastructure, facilities & networks
 Cancer
 CRUK Newcastle Cancer Research Centre (2014-17) renewed (2018-22)
 CRUK Newcastle Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (2017-22)
 CRUK Drug Discovery Programme (2015-20), renewed (2021-25)
 Immunity and Inflammation
 National Renal Complement Therapeutics Centre (Established 2016)
 Cystic Fibrosis Trust Strategic Research Centre (2016-21)
 Long-term conditions and Ageing
 NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC3) in Ageing and Long-Term Conditions (2012-17),
 renewed (2017-22)
 BEIS/MRC National Innovation Centre for Ageing (2018 onwards)
 NIHR Policy Research Unit (PRU) Older People and Frailty (2019-23)
 NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC North East and North Cumbria) (2019-24)
 MRC Lifelong Health and Wellbeing Centre in Ageing and Vitality (2014-19)
 MRC/ARUK Centre for Integrated Musculoskeletal Ageing (2012-17), renewed (2017-22)
 Rare Diseases
 Wellcome Trust Centre for Mitochondrial Research (2012-20), renewed (2020-24)
 MRC Centre for Neuromuscular Diseases (2008-18)
 MRC International Centre for Genomic Medicine in Neuromuscular Diseases (2019-24)
 Regenerative Medicine, Transplantation and Advanced Therapies
 NIHR Blood and Transplant Research Unit in Organ Donation and Transplantation (2015-22)
 Versus Arthritis Experimental Arthritis Treatment Centre (2012-18)
 Versus Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis Centre of Excellence (2013-19, renewed 2020-25)
 Northern Alliance Advanced Therapies Treatment Centre (2018-21)
 Infrastructure Awards
 MRC/EPSRC Molecular Pathology Node (2015-19)
 MRC Newcastle University Single Cell Functional Genomics Unit (2015-18)
 MRC Human Developmental Biology Resource (2013-18, renewed 2018-23)
 NIHR Newcastle Diagnostic Evidence Co-operative (2013-17)
 NIHR Newcastle Medtech & In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative, (MIC, 2018-22)
 NIHR Innovation Observatory (NIHRIO, 2017-22)
 NIHR Clinical Ageing Research Unit / Clinical Research Facility (2008-22)
 NIHR Health Protection Research Unit (2014-20)
 NIHR Research Design Service – North East North Cumbria (2012-18, renewed 2018-23)
 Training/DTPs
 MRC Doctoral Training Partnership - Discovery Medicine North (DiMeN) (2016-21)
 BBSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (2010, renewed 2015, 2020)
 Wellcome Trust 4ward North Clinical PhD Academy (2016-22)


Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3 Research Achievements

 We present our research activity, impact and strategy grouped into five major research domains:

 1.3.1 Cancer
 Research from Newcastle University (NU) has directly improved clinical care and outcomes for
 cancer patients. Our translational strengths include drug discovery, experimental medicine, early
 detection and prevention, cancer pharmacology, paediatric oncology and haematology, liver and
 colorectal cancer.

 NU is a CRUK Centre and a Blood Cancer UK Research Centre of Excellence. We attract
 significant programmatic funding from MRC (Endicott, Noble), NIHR/CRUK (ECMC, Plummer),
 CRUK (Clifford, Heidenreich, D.Mann, Moorman, Plummer, Wedge), EU (Harrison, Reeves),
 Blood Cancer UK (Allan, Harrison, Moorman), GUTS UK (Rees) and industry (including an
 alliance with Astex Pharmaceuticals, >£5M, Wedge). We lead large-scale network awards in liver
 cancer (HUNTER £4.6M, D.Mann, Reeves, CRUK), childhood brain tumours (INSTINCT £1M,
 Clifford, The Brain Tumour Charity/Children with Cancer UK/GOSH Charity), and major
 national/international clinical trials grants from CRUK (Burn, Clifford, Greystoke). We
 established the NUCoRE Centre for Cancer (Clifford, Director) in 2019, bringing together all
 cancer-related investigators and research across the University, in conjunction with key external
 stakeholders. The Centre hosts 104 investigators including ECRs, of which 52 contribute to UoA1
 themes.

 Activity:
 Discovery and Developmental Bioscience underpins our cancer strategy. Themes and key
 examples include: Cell Signalling, uncovering critical roles for RUNX1/ETO in leukaemic
 transformation (Heidenreich, CancerCell2018); Structural Biology, elucidation of a RanGDP-
 associated nuclear import pathway (Endicott, Cell2014); Tumour Immunology and
 Microenvironment, advancing theories of branching morphogenesis in the developing prostate
 (Heer, Cell2017), and investigating androgen receptors as therapeutic targets in prostate cancer
 (Coffey, Elliot, Gaughan, McCracken, Munkley, C.Robson, eLife2019, NucleicAcidsRes2020)
 and Chromosomes and the Cell Cycle, defining disease-relevant chromatin states in atypical
 teratoid-rhabdoid tumours (Williamson, CancerCell2019) and discovering mechanisms of
 chromosome 21 rearrangement in leukaemia (Harrison, Nature2014).

 These discovery initiatives feed programmes in Precision Medicine, Genomics and
 Informatics, which focus on clinical delivery. Within Paediatric Oncology and Haematology, our
 leukaemia research teams (Allan, Enshaei, Harrison, Irving, Moorman, Russell, van Delft)
 host an internationally accessible leukaemia cytogenetics database. The 30,000 members allow
 in-depth study of the nature, clinical and prognostic relevance of genetic aberrations in childhood
 and adult leukaemias, leading to biomarkers and genomic profiles being incorporated into clinical
 trials and routine clinical practice (JClinOncology2014, JClinOncology2018). Discoveries by the
 childhood medulloblastoma group (Clifford, Hicks, Williamson) have re-defined risk-stratification
 and strongly influenced design of risk-adapted international clinical trials (CancerCell2015,
 LancetOncology2017), and underpin the WHO classification of medulloblastoma, internationally
 adopted into routine diagnostic practice (Clifford ICS “Treatment stratification for childhood
 medulloblastoma patients”). In liver cancer, collaborations between Cancer, Ageing and Immunity
 researchers (D.Mann, J.Mann, Oakley, Tiniakos, C.Wilson) led to discovery of critical disease

Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 roles for neutrophil infiltration across human disease and model systems (NatCommun2015). This
 group lead the HUNTER international accelerator network, designed to deliver translational
 advances into clinical trials and practice. The programme has resulted in a CRUK/AstraZeneca-
 sponsored phase I/II study of a combination therapy of CXCR2 inhibitor AZD5069 and Durvalumab
 in patients with advanced HCC. Our pharmacology/therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) programme
 (Veal, CRUK/NIHR funding) hosts the National Centre for TDM in childhood cancer, delivering
 real-time TDM to support personalised treatment of some of the most challenging childhood
 cancer patient groups across the UK, and now embedded in national treatment guidelines.

 In Drug Discovery and Pre-Clinical Development, our CRUK Drug Discovery Unit was among
 the first academic teams to apply structure-based drug design to discover anti-cancer medicines,
 and Newcastle is one of only a few UK academic groups to contribute to the development of
 licensed drugs. The programme is led by Hickson, Endicott, Noble and Wedge with colleagues
 in Medicinal Chemistry (UoA8). The first-in-class PARP inhibitor Rucaparib (Rubraca), developed
 from concept through to clinic by the Newcastle team, was licensed for use in ovarian cancer in
 2016 (Curtin, Drew, Plummer, ICS “Rucaparib targeted therapy for a range of cancers
 characterised by homologous repair deficiency”). The Unit has a strategic alliance with Astex
 Pharmaceuticals, following a collaboration that identified the selective FGFR inhibitor Erdafitinib
 (Balversa, UoA5 ICS, Irving, Newell, MolCancerTherap2011), licensed clinically as a treatment
 for bladder cancer in 2019. The team also discovered DNA-PKcs inhibitors (JClinInvest2020), and
 collaboration with AstraZeneca and Astex Pharmaceuticals to identify AZD7648 and ASTX295,
 with both drugs now in Phase I/IIa clinical trials.

 Our Clinical Trials programme leads and supports Early Phase trials in adult patients where we
 focus on lung cancer (Greystoke, BrJCancer2017), and collaborate in international studies on
 skin cancers (Plummer, NEJM2017), complemented by the childhood cancer programme at the
 Great North Children’s Hospital (Campbell-Hewson, LancetOncol2019). We are an Innovative
 Therapies for Children with Cancer in Europe first-in-child clinical site, and lead the INCLUDE
 network (Newcastle, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Belfast, Aberdeen) which delivers childhood early-
 phase trials in the North of the UK. Our Late Phase trials link to the Centre’s strategic research
 areas: O’Brien co-led the large multicentre phase III trial of tyrosine kinase inhibitors in chronic
 myeloid leukaemia (NEJM2017). Clifford leads pan-European clinical trials and associated
 biological studies in medulloblastoma (e.g. LancetOncology2018, ICS “Treatment stratification for
 childhood medulloblastoma patients”), and Moorman leads on genetic risk stratification for the
 European ‘ALLTogether’ trial in childhood ALL. Veal has led pharmacology analyses within
 international Phase III trials (e.g. LancetOncology2017).

 Toxicity and Survivorship programmes focus on reducing the burden of cancer and its
 treatments on patients and their families, linking into UoA2 (Sharp). Work within UoA1 includes:
 development of sodium thiosulphate as a chemo-protectant against cisplatin-induced hearing loss
 (Veal, NEJM2018); assessment of patient-reported survivorship outcomes in BRAF-mutated
 melanoma patients following targeted therapies (Plummer, LancetOncology2019); and
 development of international evidence-based surveillance guidelines for major late effects in
 survivors of childhood and young adult cancer (Skinner, LancetOncology2017).

 In Prevention and Screening, Rees together with Sharp (UoA2) led investigation into cancer risk
 factors and how to optimise personalised screening and diagnostic processes. This includes the
 SEAFOOD polyp prevention trial, (Rees, Lancet2018) and multi-award winning studies of tools to

Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 improve diagnosis, which have led to international development and adoption into clinical practice
 of the Endocuff Vision device (Rees, Gut2019, ICS “Endocuff Vision: a simple tool to increase
 early detection of cancerous lesions in the colon”). Rutter and Sharp lead the UK-wide national
 endoscopy database (Gut2020), which has been used to assess the impact of COVID-19
 (Gut2020) Ongoing work includes building on CAPP2 (Burn, Lancet2020 ICS “Aspirin to
 decrease the risk of colorectal cancer for patients with Lynch syndrome”), to develop the use of
 aspirin to prevent colorectal cancer in Lynch syndrome (CaPP3 Phase III trial), and leading
 national networks in chemo-prevention and early detection (Rees, COLOSPEED) of colorectal
 cancer.

 1.3.2 Immunity and Inflammation
 Our research portfolio in Immunity and Inflammation has grown in breadth and depth since 2014
 by developing shared infrastructure and critical mass and by external partnering for clinical impact.
 Together with the Institute of Child Health in London, we co-host the £1.9M MRC-Wellcome Trust
 Human Developmental Biology Resource (HDBR) (Henderson lead, hdbr.org) a unique open
 tissue resource. This has allowed leaders such as Haniffa to position Newcastle as a central
 player in international initiatives including the Human Cell Atlas (Science2020), with an open data
 resource supported by £750k industrial funding, used in >50 publications since its launch. We
 actively participate in the UK COVID Immunology Consortium (section 4.6), Isaacs contributed
 to COVID-19 rheumatological disease guidelines (AnnRheu2020) and led a work-package in
 RTCure, an EU IMI2 project aiming to prevent rheumatoid arthritis (RA) by targeting ‘at risk’
 individuals with tolerogenic therapies (Isaacs, €6M). We coordinate another EU IMI2 project
 focused on identifying digital measures of fatigue and disordered sleep to improve both our
 understanding and therapy options in neurodegenerative and immune-mediated inflammatory
 disease (Ng, IDEA-FAST, €43M). Since inflammation is clearly implicated in carcinogenesis, there
 are strong links to Cancer (s1.3.1).

 Activity:
 Immunopoiesis and Immunomics. The study of immune cell development, heterogeneity and
 function provides a unifying focus for researchers from diverse backgrounds (Bigley, Collin,
 Hambleton, Haniffa). Notable contributions include dissecting the overlapping and distinct origins
 and function of dendritic cells, monocytes and tissue macrophages (Blood2015, Immunity2020).
 Methodologically, we have matured from predominantly flow cytometric and functional approaches
 to increasingly comprehensive (single cell) transcriptomic and proteomic profiling, (Haniffa,
 Payne) leading to the discovery of new cell types both within and outside the immune system
 (Science2017, Nature2018). We can now model and perturb in vitro models of human
 haematopoiesis based on human CD34+ or induced pluripotent stem cell culture and
 differentiation (Bigley, Hambleton, CellReports2018; Blood2020).

 Tolerance and Immune Dysregulation. Our research on immune dysregulation related to
 autoimmune disease covers the full spectrum from basic science to first-in-human clinical trials.
 Exploration of inborn errors of immunity presenting as immune dysregulation has provided a
 strong mechanistic backdrop (Hambleton, Cell2014, JExpMed2019, new insights
 (NatureImmunol2019) and further opportunity for cross-disciplinary team science across the
 faculty (e.g. with Duncan, SciImmunol2019, and Hambleton Blood2020).

 Rheumatological Disease is a long-term focus (Isaacs, Hilkens, Ng, Pratt; Reynard, ECRs
 Baker, Reynolds) and we are a EULAR Centre of Excellence, a member of the MRC/Versus
 Arthritis CIMA, and the Versus Arthritis Inflammatory Arthritis Centre of Excellence (£4.5M).
Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Recent highlights include the demonstration of safety in the first ever trial (phase 1) of intra-
 articular tolerogenic dendritic cells (tolDC, Isaacs, AnnRheumDis2017) and a longitudinal study
 tracking biomarkers of drug-free remission in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients from whom
 treatment was withdrawn (JAutoimm2019). This work informed a larger study on personalised
 therapy withdrawal by understanding the biological factors that underpin disease flare (BIO-
 FLARE, MRC-funded, £2.8M) which has just completed recruitment. Our finding that altered DNA
 methylation associated with RA risk variants affects the expression of genes relevant to immune
 dysregulation (Reynard, JAllergyClinImmunol2020) suggests potential therapeutic targets.
 Current therapeutic projects include further development of autologous tolDC cell therapy to
 investigate mode and timing of delivery (AuToDeCRAII, £1.1M Versus Arthritis-funded, with
 Advanced Therapies (s1.3.5)) and the first ever clinical trial to target synovial fibroblast
 proliferation in RA, utilising a repurposed cancer drug in partnership with the SME Cyclacel
 (TRAFIC, £1M, MRC-funded). Pearce co-led a successful first-in-woman study to treat mild
 Graves’ Disease with tolerising TSHR peptides (Thyroid2019, MRC DPFS-funded); and was
 recently awarded >£900K to explore plasma cell depleting therapy for the same indication using
 a novel two-stage adaptive design with Wason (UoA2) (MRC DPFS). Ng is part of an open data
 EU consortium to understand the natural history, stratification and therapy of Sjögren’s syndrome
 (LancetRhematology2019).

 Inflammation. Arising from our past translational research in individuals with atypical Haemolytic
 Uraemic Syndrome (aHUS) and C3 glomerulopathy, Newcastle is now commissioned as the
 National Renal Complement Therapeutics Centre to deliver advanced diagnostics and precision
 medicine to such patients (J.Goodship, T.Goodship, Kavanagh, Sheerin ICS: “Approval of
 eculizumab and establishment of a national service to treat patients with Atypical Haemolytic
 Uraemic Syndrome”), with recent research examining long-term treatment response (Kavanagh,
 KidneyInt2020). Research on mucosal inflammation is gaining critical mass in Newcastle with
 particular expertise in tissue immunopathology. This is reflected by leadership of bowel disease
 consensus guidelines (Lamb, Gut2019), and IBD-Response (MRC; Lamb, Stewart, both ECRs),
 a multicentre study of inflammatory bowel disease relating therapeutic outcomes to molecular
 tissue immunopathology and gut microbiota in an inception cohort. Stewart brings extensive
 expertise in the analysis of complex microbiome datasets across different clinical settings
 (e.g. sepsis and type 1 diabetes) in preterm infants to neonates to early childhood
 (Microbiome2017, Nature2018).

 In vitro modelling of Cystic Fibrosis pathogenesis has yielded new appreciation of the role of
 perturbed sphingosine metabolism in bacterial susceptibility (Brodlie, CellHostMicrobe2017). Our
 translational respiratory research (Simpson) developed diagnostic tests for ventilator-acquired
 pneumonia, whose efficacy was shown in clinical trials (LancetRespMed2020) and clinical
 prediction of bronchiectasis (RespMed2017).

 Innate Immunity to Infection. Duncan and Hambleton study innate antiviral immunity. They
 made the seminal discovery of type 1 interferon receptor deficiency in children intrinsically
 predisposed to severe viral illness (SciTranslMed2015), a pathway recently implicated in
 susceptibility to severe COVID-19. In tandem, they described pathological neuroinflammation in
 siblings with faulty negative feedback to the interferon signalling pathway (SciImmunol2019).




Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3.3 Long-term Conditions and Ageing
 Newcastle was one of the first institutions to recognise opportunities, health and societal issues
 associated with an ageing population. We are international leaders in the interdisciplinary
 investigation of ageing, and our researchers are policy opinion leaders. A.Sayer and Witham
 contributed oral evidence, alongside written evidence from the wider NU Ageing research
 community, to the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee into Healthy Ageing.
 Ageing is identified as one of the five beacons of excellence in the University’s 2018 research
 strategy, reaffirming our commitment in this field. We focus on translating understanding of the
 biology of ageing into advances in prevention, diagnosis and treatment of ageing syndromes,
 including Sarcopenia, Frailty and Multimorbidity. We also address the complexities of long-
 term conditions associated with ageing including Liver Disease, Diabetes and Cardiovascular
 Disease where our research has directly changed disease management.

 Central to this research is the NIHR Newcastle Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) focused
 around ageing and long-term conditions (£16.6M 2012-17; £16.2M, 2017-22). We lead the largest
 EU project on obesity/diabetes-related non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (Anstee, NAFLD, IMI2,
 €46.5M), studying blood and imaging-based biomarkers for diagnosis and risk-stratification to
 support clinical trials. Newcastle also leads the National Innovation Centre for Ageing (NIC-A,
 £40M co-investment with UK Government), bringing together scientists, industry, health and care
 providers and the public to create solutions to the impact of ageing. These initiatives link to the UK
 Government Ageing Society Grand Challenge to deliver healthier ageing and reduced health and
 social inequalities.

 Activity:
 Diabetes. Our pioneering research into type 2 diabetes (T2D) has led to major changes in policy
 and direct clinical impact in the NHS (£500K Diabetes UK). Hollingsworth, R.Taylor
 demonstrated that dietary restriction and weight-loss reduces liver and pancreatic fat, reduces
 triacylglycerol levels and normalises functional β-cell capacity, leading to remission of T2D
 (R.Taylor, CellMetab2018, DiabetesCare2017, DiabetesCare2020). Our subsequent multicentre
 clinical trial (DiRECT with Glasgow) showed feasibility of achieving this weight-loss in primary care
 (R.Taylor, Lancet2018) and that remission is maintained (Hollingsworth, R.Taylor
 LancetDiabEndocrinol2019, ICS “Remission of type 2 diabetes using a low calorie diet”). We
 translated that finding into a digital health platform (Trenell) for education and behaviour change
 and formed the spin-out company Changing Health which delivers the digital behaviour change
 platform for NHS England. We have expanded our genetic research in T2D through participation
 in the Genetics of Insulin Sensitivity consortium (M.Walker, JClinInvest2015) and contributed
 improved understanding of genetic predisposition (Viñuela, ECR, NatCommun2020).

 The expansion of our School of Biomedical sciences to include Sports and Exercise Science has
 catalysed new research across the faculty, for example in Type 1 diabetes (Shaw, Stevenson,
 M.Walker, West) where we improved strategies for glycaemic control through exercise and diet,
 key factors influencing diabetic control, cardiovascular risk and early mortality
 (BMJOpenDiabetesResCare2015), and achieved sustained 20-fold reduction in severe
 hypoglycaemia in a multi-centre type 1 diabetes RCT (Shaw, DiabetesCare2019).

 Liver Disease. We are leaders in non-viral liver disease with major programmes in metabolic
 (NAFLD) and rare liver diseases focusing on Autoimmune Liver Disease, including Primary Biliary
 Cholangitis (PBC) and Autoimmune Hepatitis (AIH). Clinical research (Anstee, Day, Daly, Jones)
Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 is complemented by a mechanistic biology programme in Liver Fibrosis (D.Mann, J.Mann) which
 strengthens our work in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC, Reeves).

 NAFLD is strongly associated with obesity, T2D, hypertension and dyslipidaemia, a real exemplar
 for multimorbidity and a key driver of early death in the North East. The European NAFLD Registry
 established by Day, with Anstee and is now the largest international NAFLD cohort with an
 associated bioresource and patients under longitudinal follow-up (ContempClinicalTrials2020).
 Active in 14 countries, it has enrolled >7,500 biopsy-proven NAFLD patients. NU investigators
 have leveraged this to conduct the largest genome-wide association study for histologically-
 characterised NAFLD, the most comprehensive hepatic transcriptomics analysis across the full
 histological spectrum of NAFLD, identifying and validating novel modifiers and new disease
 biomarkers, and shown that age is a confounding factor for the non-invasive diagnosis of
 advanced NAFLD fibrosis (Anstee JHepatol2020, SciTranslMed2020, AmJGastroenterol2017)

 NU leads the UK-PBC research consortium, the largest cohort of 9,000 fully phenotyped PBC
 patients, supported by MRC Stratified Medicine funding and industry. This allowed us to
 coordinate international trials of four new PBC treatment regimens (Jones, Lancet2017,
 NEJM2018; Newton, Hepatology2019), showing significant improvements in fatigue and pruritus
 symptoms and reduced mortality risk factors. Stratified therapy identified and validated by this
 approach has entered routine NHS practice. The uniquely deep phenotyped UK-AIH patient cohort
 has increased to >2,000 patients. Research in this cohort identified unmet clinical needs in AIH, a
 low rate of disease remission, over-reliance on steroid therapy, and a significant impact of steroids
 on health utility (Jones, Hepatology2018). This has led to the first trials in AIH in a generation.

 Sarcopenia, Frailty and Multimorbidity. The MASS (Muscle Ageing and Sarcopenia Studies)
 research programme involves deep characterisation of skeletal muscle to understand
 pathophysiological processes underlying ageing, and to identify targets for diagnosis, treatment
 and prevention of sarcopenia. We demonstrated that sarcopenia is driven by altered mitochondrial
 metabolism leading to pathological loss of muscle mass and function in older people (A.Sayer,
 NatureComms19). This work is defining international research direction and clinical practice, with
 A.Sayer co-authoring the first Lancet Seminar on sarcopenia (Lancet2019) and revised European
 consensus Sarcopenia Guidelines (AgeAgeing2019), with subsequent estimates showing high
 prevalence in a population study (EurGeriatrMed2020, Dodds, Robinson, A.Sayer). This has led
 to the MASS Lifecourse study, a world first epidemiological and deep phenotyping study recruiting
 participants from mid-life through to later life (160 individuals). Witham leads on developing
 interventional studies and clinical trials tailored to older people (AgeAgeing2020), including
 improving inclusion (Trials2020). Our frailty research investigates worldwide ageing populations
 (Witham, WellcomeOpenRes2019), as well as potential treatments for precursors of frailty such
 as orthostatic hypotension (Frith, AgeAgeing2020, NIHR, £1.4M).

 Understanding multimorbidity is a research priority and links epidemiology and health informatics
 with mechanistic and interventional studies across UoAs. We have grown our capacity in this field
 and lead two new consortia: the ADMISSION UK Multimorbidity Research Collaborative focusing
 on multiple long-term conditions in hospital (A.Sayer, MRC, £3.8M) and inter-relationships
 between polypharmacy and multiple long-term conditions (Reynolds, NIHR consortia building
 grant) which both strengthen the links between our Faculty and the Digital Institute (an Alan Turing
 Institute partner).


Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Vascular Biology and Medicine. Our vascular research investigates fundamental mechanisms
 involved in homeostasis and inflammation, aimed at developing new treatments for vascular
 diseases. Treatment of aged mice with navitoclax pointed to senolytics as a potential new
 therapeutic avenue for myocardial infarction (Richardson, AgeingCell2019). Clearance of
 senescent cells during cardiac ischemia-reperfusion injury was also shown to improve recovery
 (AgeingCell2020). We showed that leukocyte subsets expressing the fractalkine receptor CX3CR1
 decrease in peripheral and coronary artery blood, correlating with severity of acute myocardial
 infarcts and outcome and increasing with age (Spyridopoulos, JClinInvest2015). Recently
 recruited PI Stellos (ERC Starter Grant €1.5M) is leading international work on amyloid-beta in
 atherosclerosis and mortality prediction in coronary artery disease (AnnInternMed2018,
 JAmCollegeCardiol2020), and the underpinning role for RNA editing in vascular disease
 (NatureMed2016) which has potential for RNA therapeutics in cardiovascular precision medicine
 (FrontPhysiol2018). Our cardiovascular work, encompassing our expertise in ageing (Kunadian),
 found that women and older people continue to have suboptimal outcomes from percutaneous
 coronary intervention (AmJCardiology2017), leading to the ongoing SENIOR-RITA trial (BHF
 £1.7M).

 1.3.4 Rare Diseases
 Newcastle has a distinguished history of research into rare diseases. Our international rare
 disease portfolio is led from the John Walton Muscular Dystrophy Research Centre (JWMDRC,
 Bushby, Hedley, Lochmüller, Straub) and the Wellcome Trust Centre for Mitochondrial
 Research (WTCMR, Chrzanowska-Lightowlers, Greaves, Gorman, Herbert, Hudson,
 Horvath, McFarland, Payne, RW.Taylor, Turnbull; renewal £6.1M). Since 2014, these
 colleagues have led EU and international initiatives designed to improve diagnostics, treatment,
 care and research for rare diseases; including EUCERD JA; RD-ACTION; RD-Connect; Rare-
 Best practices; Rare 2030; EJP RD; Connect44Children; Solve-RD, Share4Rare and Digital tools
 4 Rare Diseases (EJP RD).

 A key accolade is Newcastle’s role in the launch of the European Reference Networks (ERNs,
 2017-2020). ERNs were designed to span care and research domains, which is essential to
 translate rare disease discoveries into effective adopted therapies. NU and NuTH established and
 coordinated 3 of 24 ERNs (until Brexit) in Immunodeficiency, Auto-inflammatory & Autoimmune
 Diseases; Liver Diseases; and Neuromuscular Diseases. Newcastle also participated in ERNs for
 rare bone, pulmonary and renal diseases. The Newcastle Research Biobank for Rare and
 Neuromuscular Diseases works with EuroBioBank and has more than 15,000 samples. We lead
 8 rare disease patient registries: UK-PBC, UK-AIH, UK Myotonic Dystrophy Patient Registry, UK
 FSHD Patient Registry, UK SMA Patient Registry, UK Primary Sjögren's Syndrome Registry;
 Global FKRP Registry, and the International GNE Myopathy Registry. These registries have
 supported >50 programmes of research, from discovery science to Phase III trials.

 In 2020, we launched the NUCoRE for Rare Diseases (Jones, Director), hosting >80 NU
 colleagues. This NUCoRE aims to bring together expertise across the various rare disease areas
 to strengthen and enhance Newcastle’s reputation as a seat of multidisciplinary knowledge and
 expertise in rare diseases. Over half of our experts have NHS contracts, enabling us to deliver
 meaningful patient-focused research and translate our science from bench to bedside and back
 again.




Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Activity:
 Diagnostic Rare Disease Research. Gene identification for rare disorders is facilitated by the
 University’s Genomics Core Facility and Bioinformatic Support Unit, which jointly support studies
 aimed at characterising the molecular pathology underlying rare diseases. Gene and novel variant
 discovery has been successful in rare kidney diseases, helping to better understand Joubert
 syndrome (Miles, J.Sayer, PNAS2018, PNAS2020). Two Wellcome Trust-funded genomics
 projects in rare disease focus on immunodeficiency syndromes (Hambleton, Blood2020) and
 primary male infertility (Veltman, HumReprod2020). The WTCMR and the JWMDRC are both
 actively involved in international sequencing projects (RW.Taylor, JAMA2014, Lochmuller,
 EurJHumanGenet2020) that complement their National Highly Specialised Commissioned
 Diagnostic Services in mitochondrial diseases and limb girdle muscular dystrophies. Both teams
 were part of the MRC Centre for Neuromuscular Disease (2008-2018) and, together with UCL and
 Cambridge University, participate in the MRC-funded International Centre for Genomic Medicine
 in Neuromuscular Diseases (Straub, Co-Director). Genetic research is complemented by
 biomarker investigations, for example in rare histiocytic disorders Bomken, Collin, Haniffa
 (Blood2017).

 Disease Cohorts and Global Data Sharing. Our strength in rare diseases is built on well-
 characterised disease cohorts, supported by the development of patient registries (Straub,
 JAMANeurol2019), rare disease biobanks and national and international networks (IMI2 c4c,
 TREAT-NMD, Horizon2020 Solve-RD). We have cohorts in rare liver disease, mitochondrial
 diseases, primary male infertility, neuromuscular diseases, rare endocrinological, eye, renal and
 skin diseases. EU-funded projects NeurOmics and EURenOmics generated -omics data and
 improved diagnosis and cohort building in rare neurological and rare renal diseases. RD-Connect
 (led by Newcastle, €12M) developed an infrastructure to facilitate the international sharing,
 systematic integration and analysis of these data.

 From Experimental Medicine to Phase III Trails. These disease cohorts and our expertise in
 translating potential therapies into proof of concept and first-in-human clinical trials attract
 commercial partnerships. During 2019-2020 alone, we were involved in 91 trials in rare diseases,
 e.g. antisense oligonucleotide trials in Duchenne muscular dystrophy and spinal muscular atrophy
 (Straub, NEJM2017). Our translational research group for rare bone diseases coordinates an
 H2020 project in metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, type Schmid (MCDS), which results from
 mutations in collagen X (Briggs, Wright). This project aims to advance repurposing of
 carbamazepine for MCDS through a multicentre, multinational clinical trial. EU funding also
 supports the stem-cell based gene therapy programme for recombination-deficient SCID and the
 transfer of multivirus-specific T cells following transplantation (Gennery, JClinImmunol2018,
 2021). Two MRC DPFS awards funded recently-completed clinical trials of the effect of adjuvant
 Rituximab in young patients with Graves’ hyperthyroidism (Cheetham), and combined
 immunotherapy and trophic adrenocortical stimulation in new onset autoimmune Addison’s
 disease (Pearce, JClinEndocrinolMetab2020). A third DPFS award funds an ongoing trial of the
 efficacy of acipimox in patients with mitochondrial myopathy (Gorman). The National Renal
 Complement Therapeutics Centre leads a multicentre study of the safety and impact of
 eculizumab withdrawal in patients with aHUS (Sheerin, SETS-aHUS). Additional ongoing clinical
 research projects around aHUS are supported by the Wellcome Trust, looking at the role of the
 RNA exosome component EXOSC3 (Hambleton, Kavanagh, Marchbank), and by MRC,


Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 investigating the Properdin Paradox using C3 D1115N (Marchbank, Kavanagh, Harris). Clinical
 trials in primary biliary cholangitis, a rare liver disease, are supported by the NIHR (Jones, s1.3.3).

 Translation into Patient Benefits. The WTCMR has been supported by NHS England for their
 translation of mitochondrial donation into clinical practice (Gorman, Herbert, Turnbull ICS “A new
 technique to prevent transmission of mitochondrial disease”, Lancet2018). This pioneering
 technique, developed by the interdisciplinary team, prevents the transmission of mitochondrial
 disease to the next generation (Turnbull, Nature2016). The JWMDRC has been involved in
 clinical trials leading to marketing approval for Translarna® in Duchenne muscular dystrophy
 (Bushby, Guglieri, Straub, ICS “Ataluren: the first approved oral treatment for Duchenne
 muscular dystrophy”, Bushby, MuscleNerve2014) and Nusinersen® for spinal muscular atrophy
 (Straub, NEJM2017). In addition, the Centre has been involved in trials leading to the approval of
 AAV-based gene replacement therapy (Zolgensma®) for SMA type 1 by the EMA and FDA
 approval of antisense oligonucleotides Golodirsen® (Neurology2020) and Casimersen® for
 patients with DMD.

 1.3.5 Regenerative Medicine, Transplantation and Advanced Therapies
 We have nurtured significant growth in our capability, capacity and impact in Regenerative
 Medicine, Transplantation and Advanced Therapies, driven by major infrastructure awards and
 programme-level funding. These include the MRC Expand programme (Shaw, Tiniakos),
 Northern Alliance Advanced Therapies Treatment Centre (Shaw), NIHR Blood and Transplant
 Research Unit in Organ Donation and Transplantation (Fisher, Shaw), ERC Consolidator Award
 (Lako) and NIHR SIGNET (Dark, Fisher, Sheerin, Shaw). We participated in a large EU IMI1-
 funded initiative, leading the derivation and characterisation of 1,500 human induced pluripotent
 stem cell lines now used worldwide for disease modelling drug discovery programmes and cell
 replacement proof of concept therapies StemBANCC, (Armstrong, Lako, €52M). Our growth is
 reflected in the creation of a cross-faculty research theme in Regenerative Medicine, Stem Cells
 and Transplantation which works with our NHS Trusts to facilitate translation and impact.

 Activity:
 Regenerative Medicine. We pioneered and introduced transformative limbal stem cell therapy
 for painful sight loss (Figueiredo, Lako, ICS “Human-derived limbal cell transplant to treat
 chemical burns of the eye”). Pluripotent stem cell derivation and modelling has provided a platform
 to generate functionally corrected cells for basic research and transplantation and delivered
 insights into the pathomechanism of inherited retinal disease (Lako, NatCommun2017,
 NatCommun2018). These activities established Newcastle pluripotent stem cell group as
 international leaders and led to creation of the first European iPSC bank (EbiSC), which distributes
 these cell lines for no profit to multiple stem cell labs and laid the foundation of NU spin-out
 Newcells Biotech (Armstrong).

 We were the first to create light-sensitive retinal organoids from human pluripotent stem cells
 (Lako, StemCells2018). The HDBR, (MRC-Wellcome Trust-funded, s1.3.2) provided the ability to
 perform the first integrative transcriptional analysis of developing human retina (Lako,
 Development2019). This has led to three ongoing awards from BBSRC and MRC (£2M) to
 generate detailed single cell atlases of the developing eye as part of the Human Cell Atlas
 Initiative. These analyses made major contributions in identifying the ocular surface as an
 additional entry portal for SARS-CoV-2 (Lako, OculSurf2020e).



Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Studying adult stem cells, (Loughlin, Reynard, Young) have applied epigenomic and
 transcriptomic techniques to advance understanding of cartilage development (Development2017,
 FASEBJ2020) and destruction in osteoarthritis (NatGenet2017), leading to further programme
 grant funding from Versus Arthritis (Loughlin) and the Dunhill Medical Trust (Young). Briggs
 and Piróg use stem cells to mechanistically understand mutations causing rare bone diseases
 (JBoneMinerRes2020), including those encompassed within the EU H2020 project MCDS-
 Therapy (Briggs, s1.3.4).

 We develop tissue relevant model systems and were the first to demonstrate 3D bio-printing of a
 human corneal stroma (Connon, ExpEyeRes2018), which led to NU spin-out 3D Bio-Tissues Ltd,
 which addresses the critical need for donor corneal tissue worldwide. Research with lipopeptides
 contributed to a new form of tissue engineering, termed Tissue Templating. This facilitates the
 ability of cells to change shape and size over time (Connon, AdvFunctMat2020), and led to NU
 spin-out CellulaREvolution Ltd, aimed at solving critical problems in cell manufacture. Research
 in niche limbal stem cell biology resulted in a new treatment for corneal burns, Biomechanical
 Modulation Therapy (Connon, NatComms2019), currently in clinical trials in India supported by
 the Ulverscroft Foundation.

 Organ Transplantation. We have built on previous infrastructure investment (£30M) between NU
 and NuTH in opening the Institute of Transplantation (IoT), at the Freeman Hospital the only UK
 site to host all forms of solid organ transplantation (heart, lungs, liver, kidney, pancreas and islet
 cells) in a single dedicated facility. In 2015, our University-NHS team was awarded the NIHR Blood
 and Transplant Research Unit in Organ Donation and Transplantation (with Cambridge £3.8M,
 extended £1.3M, 2020). Fisher leads the multi-disciplinary team with Ali, Dark, Kirby, Shaw,
 Sheerin, CH.Wilson combining research and patient care. This established Newcastle as a
 leading international research centre in organ preservation and transplantation.

 Our research is leading ex-situ normothermic perfusion of donor organs as a means of objectively
 assessing function and           improving   organ quality for transplantation         (Fisher,
 JHeartLungTransplant2014, EurJCardioSurg2017). We have established a Transplantation and
 Regenerative Medicine Laboratory Facility, operated by NU but hosted in the NHS Newcastle
 Blood Centre, as a dedicated organ perfusion laboratory for pre-clinical human and large animal
 models of organ perfusion.

 In lung transplantation, we led the DEVELOP-UK study (Fisher, NIHR HTA) of donor ex-vivo lung
 perfusion (EVLP) which showed that EVLP applied to higher risk donor organs facilitates more
 lung transplants, reducing transplant waiting time (HTA2016), but with significantly higher cost
 (BMCHealtServRes2019). Fisher, and Ali identified a biomarker that predicts how well organs will
 function after transplant (JHeartLungTrans2017), developed by industry collaborator MyCartis into
 a rapid point of care assay. NuTH now has a clinical EVLP service in place based on this work. A
 recently funded EME study (C-CLAD-UK, Fisher) will use novel design features (Wason, Grayling
 UoA2) in a clinical trial to investigate the use of extracorporeal photophoresis in treating chronic
 lung allograft dysfunction.              This follows Fisher’s involvement in guidelines
 (JHeartLungTransp2019). In kidney transplantation, Ali, Fisher, Mellor, Sheerin and CH.Wilson
 worked with Athersys on the first effective use of cell-based therapeutics to treat human kidneys
 on an ex-situ normothermic circuit (CH.Wilson, AmJTransplant2020), reporting that improved
 function dampened inflammation. In islet cell transplantation, Shaw leads the UK Islet Transplant
 Consortium        and     multicentre     studies    demonstrating     beta-cell   dedifferentiation

Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (AmJTransplant2018), impact on glucose variability (DiabetesCare2015) and immune response
 (AMJTransplant2015). We were the only UK centre to participate in the first anti-inflammatory
 therapy RCT following pancreatic islet transplantation (Shaw, DiabCare2020). We developed a
 new platform to use oxygen persufflation to improve preservation and eliminate hypoxia in
 transport of pancreata (Shaw, Transplantation2019). This has been commercialised in a NU spin-
 out, ScubaTx.

 Advanced Therapies. We have significantly increased our industrial partnerships since 2014. We
 have a pipeline of cell and gene therapy trials with 15 different companies including Autolus, Pfizer,
 Avexis, Achilles and Chiesi, increasing from one trial in 2012-13 to 8 commencing in 2021 (e.g.
 Pfizer DMD Gene Therapy, Straub). The Northern Alliance Advanced Therapies Treatment
 Centre (Innovate UK), co-led by Newcastle (Shaw), has cemented Newcastle as a leader in
 advanced therapy translation, trials delivery and NHS adoption. Linking with Cancer (s1.3.1), we
 are one of only 7 centres nationally to offer CD19 CAR-T cells to adult multiple myeloma patients
 in a phase 1/2 study, and a first global phase 1 neoantigen receptor T-cell study in melanoma
 (THETIS, Plummer). Our expertise in advanced therapies is utilised in design and
 implementation, from first-in-human studies to registration trials in Rare Diseases (s1.3.4) and in
 developing our tolerogenic immune therapy in Immunity and Inflammation (s1.3.2).

 1.4 Future Strategy

 Our ambition is to be a global leader in translational research across our 5 research domains. We
 will exploit the recent faculty restructure as well as the local collaborations brought together in our
 AHSC to enhance multi-disciplinary working between clinical, non-clinical and applied health
 researchers and expand our translational pipeline. Our strategy has 3 pillars: (1) Enhancing
 Translation, (2) Data Science and Health Informatics, and (3) Capacity Building and Skills
 Training.

 1) Enhancing Translation
 We will expand our translational ecosystem, working through our AHSC, to develop an Innovation
 Pathway and Accelerator Test Bed for new medical technologies. This will enable us to identify
 transformative innovations, evaluate these in the NHS context, promote adoption at scale and
 monitor patient benefits. To deliver this vision we purchased the 29-acre Campus for Ageing and
 Vitality site (CAV, £8M) in 2019, where we plan new infrastructure at the interface between clinical
 research, NHS care and industry. The site currently accommodates our BRC, the AHSN, specialist
 NHS clinics, research imaging and clinical trial facilities (s3.2). We plan new “living-labs” for real-
 world trials and technology evaluation in the older person, synergistic with the capabilities of our
 National Innovation Centres in Ageing and Data (NIC-D), and with our Science Faculty for
 biomedical engineering innovations (devices and materials for advanced therapeutics and
 transplantation).

 2) Data Science and Health Informatics
 We will continue to expand our health informatics expertise, working closely with our colleagues
 in the University Digital Institute (UoA11), NIC-D and AHSC partners developing programmes
 which exploit the Great North Care Record. We will create a secure and agile research
 environment to enable large-scale biological and medical data analysis in areas ranging from
 single cell omics to multimorbidity.



Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3) Capacity Building and Skills Training
 We will continue to invest in talent through fellowships and building excellence through our well-
 established support of ECRs. A major focus of the new AHSC training programme will be the
 development of a sector-leading model for clinical academic career support for nurses, midwives
 and allied health professionals (NMAHPs).
 In Cancer we will establish a comprehensive Translational Cancer Centre, forming new multi-
 disciplinary teams focused on delivering practice-changing research, building on our strengths in
 drug discovery and clinical trials.

 In Immunity and Inflammation we will broaden our research on host-microbe interaction through
 integrative analysis of the microbiome within clinical profiling of patient cohorts and disease
 modelling to identify new therapeutic targets. We will create new links between our bacterial cell
 biology (UoA5) and immunology researchers and our cancer drug discovery unit to develop new
 programmes addressing the international challenges of anti-microbial resistance. This approach
 will adopt our successful model for therapeutic developments in cancer, based on integration of
 fundamental bioscience, clinical understanding and commercial partnerships.

 In Long-term Conditions and Ageing we will invest in appointments for Ageing and Informatics
 to underpin our current leadership in digital health projects. We will invest in skills in academic
 geriatric medicine and geriatric oncology to drive new programmes in ageing and multimorbidity:
 critical components of our AHSC vision.

 In Rare Diseases we will expand our discovery research to prime new experimental and clinical
 studies and develop Newcastle-led therapies. We aim to fill the ERN void which formed at Brexit
 by creating and leading new national and international networks in rare disease research, policy
 and engagement.

 In Regenerative Medicine we will work with partners in academia, the NHS and industry to
 establish a Northern Advanced Therapies Accelerator as part of the Innovation Pathway CAV
 developments.

 Common to these domain-specific objectives is the drive to develop new therapeutic approaches.
 We will exploit the commonalities of these objectives to build cross-domain research programmes
 including in therapeutic manipulation of tolerance in immuno-oncology, inflammation medicine and
 advanced therapeutics.

 1.5 Impact Strategy

 In UoA1 we focus on patient impact, collaborating closely with NHS trusts and industry to deliver
 real healthcare and economic benefits. Our impact and research strategies are therefore closely
 connected. To ensure our strategy succeeds, our organisational structures are designed and
 supported to move findings robustly from basic science down the translational pathway.

 We have five UoA1 impact champions (Armstrong, Hicks, Loughlin, Wedge, West). Working
 with the Faculty’s Impact Officers, they identify potential impact from research. We encourage all
 colleagues to participate in impact-relevant University programmes including the Policy Academy,
 Global Challenges Research Academy and Enterprise Academy. We train colleagues in patient-


Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 public engagement to inform research questions (e.g. VOICE, s4.7) and internally fund partnership
 building and impact activities.

 Impacts on Health and Wellbeing. We have had significant impact on health and wellbeing
 through clinical collaborations, commercialisation of our research and adoption into the NHS. For
 example, ICS “Remission of type 2 diabetes using a low calorie diet” (Taylor), where our research
 led to the NHS England pilot of specialised diet interventions at 10 sites and for NHS Scotland to
 roll out specialised diet interventions across the country. A second example is “Endocuff Vision: a
 simple tool to increase early detection of colorectal cancer and pre-cancer” (Rees), describing
 improvements in adenoma detection during colonoscopy. Developed with industry, the resulting
 tool received NICE approval and NHS funding in 2019 and is now widely used in practice. UoA1
 staff also led a UoA5 ICS on a “best-in-class" treatment for metastatic bladder cancers (s4.5).

 Impacts on Commerce and the Economy. We have created a culture of commercial
 collaboration leading to economic impact. For example, interdisciplinary research of Curtin, Drew,
 Plummer and colleagues in Chemistry led to FDA, EMA and NICE approval of Rucaparib to treat
 germline and somatic ovarian and prostate cancers. In addition to the patient benefit, there has
 been substantial financial gain for the partner company, Clovis Oncology, who reported $376.5M
 net product revenue for Rucaparib (2016-2020). We also create economic impact via spin-out
 creation, including two examples where UoA1 staff contributed to UoA5 ICSs – see Alcyomics
 (s4.4) and Fibrofind (s4.5).

 Impacts on Public Policy, Law and Services. Our specialist expertise contributes to wider
 aspects of science policy and we encourage all academics to engage with policy makers. For
 example, our research into mitochondrial disease informed the House of Commons, leading to a
 change to UK law in 2015. This allowed the Newcastle Fertility Centre to establish an NHS Highly
 Specialised Clinical Service: ICS “A new technique to prevent transmission of mitochondrial
 disease” (Herbert, Gorman, Turnbull). Our research also underpinned regulatory approvals.
 Clinical data produced by Newcastle led to EMA and NICE approval for a drug to treat Duchenne
 muscular dystrophy; ICS “Ataluren: the first approved oral treatment for Duchenne muscular
 dystrophy” (Bushby, Guglieri, Straub).

 1.6 Open Access and Research Integrity
 We encourage wide dissemination of research outputs and data. Colleagues are supported to
 develop data management plans to ensure effective data sharing, including through the
 University’s Research Data Repository. The University ePrints repository ensures research
 outputs are made Green Open Access, while we make full use of RCUK/UKRI, COAF, Faculty
 and Institute funds to increase the proportion of publications made open access. We are actively
 preparing for Plan S.

 The University is a signatory of the Condordat for Research Integrity and appointed Prof Simon
 Woods (UoA21) as expert convenor on research integrity (REF5a 2.3.2). We have joined the UK
 Reproducibility Network, subscribe to UKRIO, and are members of the Russell Group’s Research
 Integrity Forum. Research integrity is the remit of our Dean of Research and Innovation.




Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

 2.1 Overview

 Our research excellence and impact is underpinned by recruitment and development of our
 researcher base at all academic levels. We are committed to developing clinical academics and
 have recognised institutional success in securing external clinical fellowships. We operate specific
 programmes for early career funding and mentoring. Members of UoA1 provide national
 leadership for both clinical and non-clinical training initiatives and award panels.

 We have achieved 90 externally funded fellowships, with 13 Professorial (including NIHR Senior
 Investigator Awards for Bushby, Isaacs, Jones, Rees, Reynolds, A.Sayer, Simpson, Turnbull,
 and Wellcome Trust Investigator Awards in Science and Senior Research Fellowships for Collin,
 Cordell, Hambleton, Haniffa, Veltman), as well as 47 Post-doctoral and 30 Doctoral awards.

 We have appointed 14 internally funded “transition to independence fellowships” through our NU
 Research Fellowships (NURF) and NU Academic Track (NUAcT, REF5a 3.2.4) schemes, nine of
 whom have completed the scheme and obtained open-ended contracts or academic
 appointments. A further 17 strategic academic appointments have been made. We have higher
 degree studentships funded through our MRC, BBSRC and Wellcome Trust DTPs and by NIHR,
 UKRI, charity funders and overseas scholarships, together with a Masters of Research (MRes)
 programme.

 In recognition of their research contributions, Turnbull was elected to Fellowship of the Royal
 Society and was knighted for services to health care research and treatment. Jones was made
 OBE for services to clinical training and people with liver disease. Hambleton, Haniffa, Herbert,
 D. Mann and Plummer have been elected as Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences.

 2.2 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 2.2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy
 Our strategy combines a strong career development pathway alongside targeted recruitment of
 high-performing academics to grow our international research leadership across our domains. We
 have retained 80% of staff returned in REF2014 while expanding FTE by 14.8 FTE. New
 appointments at all levels are to open-ended contracts as part of our commitment to minimising
 workforce casualisation.

 2.2.2 External recruitment

 We recruited 12 new professors (6 clinical) as part of our strategy to expand research impact
 across our research domains, with a further 5 appointments of future leaders at Senior
 Lecturer/Lecturer level. In Cancer, Rees was appointed Professor of Gastroenterology, and
 Nsengimana (Senior Lecturer in Biostatistics) enhances our clinical trial design capability across
 all research domains. In Long-term Conditions and Ageing we made appointments to
 spearhead clinical research in ageing, multi-morbidity and long-term conditions. Chairs: A.Sayer
 (Geriatric Medicine) to bring leadership in translational ageing research, establish new research
 in sarcopenia and lead the successful Newcastle NIHR Biomedical Research Centre renewal
 (2017); Witham (Trials for Older People) for expertise in specialist clinical trials in older
 populations; and Robinson (Lifecourse & Lifestyle) for epidemiology expertise. To underpin our

Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 longstanding research excellence in nutrition, healthy ageing and exercise physiology, we
 recruited Stevenson (Professor of Sports and Exercise Science), Hulston, Spiers (Senior
 Lecturers in Sport and Exercise Science) and Orange (Lecturer) and invested £25M in sports and
 exercise research facilities. Although their work contributes to UoAs 1, 3 and 24, there is not yet
 the critical mass required for a UoA24 return. West was appointed as a NURF and subsequently
 promoted to Senior Lecturer. In Regenerative Medicine, Transplantation and Advanced
 Therapies we recruited Chairs: Stellos (Cardiovascular Medicine & Epitranscriptomics) and Burt
 (Precision and Molecular Pathology to direct the Pathology Node and lead developments in
 precision medicine). In Rare Diseases we made appointments to lead research in genetics
 (Veltman as Jacobson chair of Personalized Medicine and Dean of NUBI) and to strengthen our
 translational research into neuromuscular diseases (Diaz Manera as Professor of Neuromuscular
 Diseases).

 We also made senior appointments from industry. In Cancer we recruited two Chairs; Wedge
 (Stratified Cancer Medicine Discovery) from AstraZeneca and Hickson (Cancer Drug Discovery)
 from Janssen to expand our programmes in drug discovery, with Harris (Molecular Immunology)
 from GSK to the Immunity and Inflammation domain. Connon was recruited to a Chair in Tissue
 Engineering, bringing commercial entrepreneurial talent to the Regenerative Medicine,
 Transplantation and Advanced Therapies domain and as the Faculty Director of Business
 Development.

 2.2.3 Clinical Academics and NHS-employed Active Researchers

 Our research strength within UoA1 is built on a highly effective relationship with our two Care
 Quality Commission “outstanding”-rated partner trusts (NuTH and CNTW). In UoA1, 66
 researchers are clinical academics holding honorary contracts with one of the partner trusts.
 Additionally, we host a further 66 NHS-employed active researchers with honorary University
 status. All NHS-employed researchers have affiliate membership with one of our Research
 Institutes or Schools and have access to all University facilities to support their research.

 We pioneered development of the model of a dedicated Clinical Academic Office (CAO), led by
 the Dean of Clinical Medicine (Fisher), which oversees and manages the interface between the
 University and NHS organisations for both employed and honorary staff. This CAO facilitates
 integrated Follett joint-appraisal and job-planning to ensure seamless working across the
 clinical/academic interface. Those with honorary clinical senior lecturer status or above have a
 University review alongside their NHS Appraisal to ensure that their research commitments are
 recognised when setting development goals. In addition, the CAO model includes a regular joint
 Human Resources committee meeting between the NU and NHS partners where strategic and
 operational issues can be identified and resolved swiftly. The CAO model has been recommended
 as national best practice by the multi-agency Clinical Academic Training Forum (inaugural chair
 Jones), which reports to the Office for Strategic Coordination of Health Research (chair Day) to
 support clinical academic career development.

 Since the award of our AHSC, we have strengthened the integration of clinical academics and
 NHS-employed active researchers by establishing standing committees in Research and
 Innovation; Education and Training; and People and Culture. These committees are tasked with
 delivering greater integration across the AHSC to ensure the University and the 2 largest NHS
 organisations, together with the local authority, maximise our ability to deliver impactful
 innovations for patient benefit. A major focus of the AHSC training programme will be to develop
Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 a sector-leading model for clinical academic career support for NMAHPs, building on our already
 strong track record.

 2.2.4 Development and Integration of Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 We are committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
 actively manage career progression. We have a dedicated Career Advisor and an Organisational
 Development Specialist at University level who assist our Career Development Working Group to
 ensure that our Career Pathways Framework and training meet the needs of the Faculty.
 Consequently, we have retained our Vitae HR Excellence in Research Award through multiple
 reviews since the original award in 2010. Our Skills Academy was launched to consolidate and
 develop our offer (REF5a 2.5) and we have mentoring schemes at all career levels. Our active
 Faculty Postdoctoral Committee, with representation across all Institutes and themes, organises
 an annual postdoctoral conference.

 Our Bridging scheme provides short-term funding to retain key skills and researchers between
 grant awards and contributes to EDI by supporting researchers who might otherwise drop out of
 a scientific career. The scheme has supported 95 research associates and technicians across the
 Faculty over this REF cycle, 42% in this UoA.

 Our Small Grant Scheme enables researchers to acquire preliminary data to support grant
 applications. During this REF period we allocated £580K across 76 projects, mainly to ECRs.

 Our Broadening our Horizons scheme supports researchers and PGR students by allowing them
 to present their work at conferences, visit other research groups nationally and internationally to
 gain new techniques or mentoring. The scheme has supported 135 colleagues since 2014.

 2.2.5 ECR Development to Independence
 We operate a highly successful ECR development programme which enables researchers to
 realise their ambition of becoming independent academics. We combine proactive identification
 of talented researchers with direct support from fellowship schemes and small grant awards. Since
 2014 we have enabled 24 ECRs to transition to independence.

 2.2.6 Non-Clinical Fellows – Investment in ECR Development
 We invest in 2 non-clinical fellowship schemes, open to internal and external candidates. Faculty
 Fellowships allow early-stage post-doctoral researchers to develop original research ideas, over
 2-3 years, to prime external fellowship applications. Fellows have a scientific advisor and a career
 mentor to guide their development. We introduced NU Research Fellowships (NURFs, 2015) as
 a route to non-clinical academic appointment and this scheme was subsequently extended across
 the University through the NU Academic Track appointments (NUAcT, REF5a 3.2.4). All of our
 fellowship schemes are extremely competitive (NUAcTs >600 worldwide applicants in 2020).

 NURFs, NUAcTs and externally awarded career-level fellows are supported by the Director of
 Non-Clinical Fellowships (Higgins, UoA5) who closely monitors progression against fellowship
 milestones. Fellows receive academic mentoring via the Faculty PI development programme,
 which covers grant writing, research group management, budgeting and time management skills.
 Fellows have access to additional funding streams from institutional awards, allowing them to
 expand their research portfolio and obtain pump-priming data for larger external grant applications.



Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 These non-clinical schemes are successful: 80% of researchers who have completed our Faculty
 Fellowship scheme have secured fellowships or academic positions. Of the 12 NURF
 appointments, to date 9 have transitioned to Lecturer or Senior Lecturer contracts. Two new
 NUAcTs have been appointed in this UoA since this programme started in 2019 (Stewart in
 Immunity and inflammation and Viñuela in Long-term conditions and ageing), underpinning
 our REF2014 strategy to build capacity in those areas. Future NUAcT fellowship appointments will
 align with priority research areas including Rare Disease. In Cancer we will co-fund at least one
 university-commercial partnership fellowship to cement industrial linkage in cancer drug discovery.

 2.2.7 Clinical Fellows
 We have a longstanding track-record of developing clinical academic careers and Jones is Dean
 for the NIHR Academy. Our Academic Foundation Programme (AFP) was the first in the UK to
 offer 8 months of protected research time during the 24-month programme and now forms the
 basis for programmes across the UK. Our model of cross-professional integration of training
 support through our CAO has been adopted by the NIHR Academy and we host NIHR Academy
 Incubators in Methodology (Teare, UoA2) and Medical Education (Vance, UoA23).

 UoA1 has hosted 90 posts on our AFP in collaboration with Health Education England. The CAO
 supports medical, dental and allied health professional trainees and ensures high quality
 supervision, support and mentorship. We have hosted 79 Academic Clinical Fellows (ACFs) who
 are supported to develop externally funded fellowship applications leading to a higher degree
 (PhD/MD), with 63% having gone on to higher degrees. We host the Wellcome Trust 4ward North
 Clinical PhD Academy with Leeds, Manchester and Sheffield Universities, providing academic
 research training for clinical academics across the spectrum of biomedical research.

 Our Academic Clinical Lecturers (ACLs) receive bespoke support to complete their clinical training
 alongside a post-doctoral research career. Over the REF period we have supported 43 NIHR
 Clinical Lecturers. Particular successes are Hill and Bomken (MRC Clinician Scientist
 Fellowships), Duncan and Reynolds (Wellcome Trust Career Development Fellowships), Frith
 (NIHR Clinician Scientist Fellowship) and Lamb (MRC PSMB and Genentech programme grant
 support).

 2.2.8 Team Science and the Technicians Commitment
 We are committed to Team Science and ensure that our students, technical staff, technologists,
 methodologists and professional service staff are acknowledged for their contribution to research
 and have a stable and rewarding career structure. To promote career development of our
 technicians, we formed NU TechNet (2016) as a forum to share resources, information and
 experiences. This initiative was led by Leitch, now the Faculty Deputy Head of Infrastructure, who
 was shortlisted for THE Technician of the Year (2019). Newcastle was therefore well placed to
 become a founding signatory of the Science Council Technician Commitment in March 2017,
 which aims to ensure that technicians working across the higher education and research sectors
 receive career development, visibility and recognition for their work.

 To integrate our technical staff into our research programmes, we created a cross-faculty research
 theme in Innovation, Methodology and Application which is co-led by senior technicians and
 academic methodologists. This theme provides an important link between applied technological
 innovation and research applications. Our Professional Services teams of project and business
 development managers contribute to, and are named on, funding applications. The vital role of
 technicians is recognised by co-authorship of outputs and ICS. Our technicians are internationally
Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 recognised and are leaders in international technical societies, are recognised by society awards,
 undertake journal and grant peer review and sit on specialist external grant panels. Technical staff
 are co-authors on 35% of UoA1 submitted outputs, while 33% of ICS have underpinning research
 which include technical staff as authors.

 2.3 Recognition and Reward

 Formal recognition for excellent performance happens via our annual promotions round, an open
 process which encourages all academics to submit their case for promotion. Achievements are
 based on quality evaluations and non-contextual citations, not journal names or impact factors.
 (NU signed the Concordat to Support Research Integrity in 2018). Of the 168 academics in UoA1,
 44 were promoted during this REF period, five achieved multiple promotions. The impact of
 personal circumstances during the COVID-19 will be integral to future reward and recognition
 processes.

 2.4 Research Students

 Our Postgraduate Research (PGR) student community contributes significantly to our research
 environment, productivity and impact. Since REF2014, 826 PhD (60% females) and 106 MD (37%
 female) students have solely or partly been supervised by UoA1 researchers. To foster the best
 possible students, we invest in research-led undergraduate teaching with emphasis on project
 work in our laboratories. Carefully selected graduates and intercalating medical students proceed
 to a range of focused PGR Masters (MRes and MPhil) programmes which have supported 1,049
 students during this REF cycle. These students spend >6months working on research projects,
 with 91% reporting overall satisfaction with their programme (PRES 2019). More than 160 papers
 in this REF cycle can be attributed directly to MRes project work. This training “conveyer”
 generates a pool of research-motivated postgraduates who can compete successfully for funded
 doctoral studentships.

 2.4.1 Recruitment
 The diversity of our doctoral students contributes to our research environment. Almost 25% of our
 doctoral student body is international, and this is expected to rise with recently-developed joint
 PhD programmes with Monash, Australia and Universitas Indonesia in Jakarta. One third of the
 students come from BAME backgrounds, (14% excluding international students). We also foster
 wider aspects of diversity amongst our home students. To eliminate bias in selection, our largest
 doctoral training programmes (DTPs) pioneered a system to redact all identifiers during both
 project selection and student short-listing. We can demonstrate the absence of gender bias and
 38% of the PhD students in our BBSRC-funded 2018 and 2019 cohorts are first-in-family at
 university; this compares favourably with Newcastle’s 37% widening participation rate at
 undergraduate level and is a powerful indicator of inclusivity and diversity in our PGR community.

 2.4.2 Progression, Monitoring and Support
 We provide multiple layers of pastoral support to every PGR student, building from supervisors,
 through annual progress review panels, to PGR co-ordinators, the Postgraduate Tutor and,
 ultimately, the PGR Dean.

 Annual Progress Review for doctoral students is independent of the supervisors and performed
 by academics drawn from the Faculty. The report is scrutinised by their Research Institute and the
 PGR Dean to identify and, in almost all cases, rapidly resolve any developing problem. PGR
 supervisors undertake compulsory training, leading to excellent rates of timely thesis submission
Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (88% within four years for full-time PhD students) and programme completion (89%). This is also
 reflected in the 88% of our students who reported overall satisfaction with their doctoral
 programme (PRES 2019, top of the upper quartile in the Russell Group).

 We recognise the vulnerability of doctoral students to the COVID-19 lockdown and have put in
 place a raft of measures to mitigate the impact wherever possible. These include fee-free
 extensions and significant investment in a NU COVID-19 Impact Scholarship Scheme to provide
 additional stipend support.

 2.4.3 Skills Development and Future Career Preparation
 Each student is supported by a Research Student Development Programme which aligns with the
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework and promotes the development of research-specific
 and generic skills. Although our UKRI-sponsored DTP students benefit from additional training,
 we widen access wherever possible to allow non-DTP students to join activities. For example, the
 student-led NE Postgraduate Conference (one of the largest such conferences in the UK with
 >600 annual registrants) is largely supported by UKRI DTP sponsorship but allows free
 participation to all PGR students in the North of England.

 We believe that the combination of research enthusiasm engendered by comprehensive student
 training with the satisfaction produced by supervisory excellence and sensitive support is
 responsible for the remarkable productivity of the doctoral students within this UoA. 35% of
 submitted papers in this UoA have doctoral students as authors.

 2.5 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 We are committed to values and practices that create a research environment in which colleagues
 have the freedom and opportunity succeed. Our former Institutes held Athena Swan Silver awards:
 Cellular Medicine (2013, renewed 2016), Genetic Medicine (2015) and Northern Institute of
 Cancer Research (2015), which were consolidated into a Faculty Silver Award in 2018. We are
 committed to equality across all protected characteristics with NU being a member of the Advance
 HE Race Equality Charter, the Business Disability Forum and is a Global Stonewall Diversity
 Champion. This commitment is reflected in NU policies and programmes such as our Networks
 and support schemes. We have built on these at a local level as outlined in s.2.2 above. We also
 supplement the University Returners Support Programme with Faculty funding, in recognition of
 the relatively high costs of much of our research.

 Our return includes 168 members of staff. 36% are women, 12% Black, Asian & Minority Ethnic
 (BAME) with two colleagues declaring a disability. We are committed to promoting equality and
 progressing all academic careers and in the REF period, 33% of internal academic promotions
 were women, including 35% of those promoted to Reader or Chair. We are actively working to
 improve this gender balance. We also focus on the challenges for clinical academics balancing
 NHS, research and personal commitments. 50% of ACFs and 40% of ACLs are women, the latter
 being higher than the national average. We ensure flexible clinical training for part-time trainees.
 We are proud that 4 of our 5 academics elected FMedSci since 2014 are women.

 2.5.1 Flexible Accommodation and Working Patterns
 Our physical workspaces are configured for colleagues with sensory and physical access
 requirements and our buildings have baby changing facilities. Flexible working is accommodated;
 pre-COVID some colleagues chose to work remotely part of the week or had flexible or

Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 compressed working hours to accommodate their personal circumstances. Meetings and
 seminars are arranged around flexible work patterns, religious needs and ensure a gender
 balance of presenters. We also ensure gender balance on our decision-making committees and
 in seminar programmes.

 2.5.2 Future EDI Strategy
 We monitor gender and ethnicity at each career stage to inform our recruitment and career
 development activity. We will continue to work on University initiatives to create research cultures,
 activities and environments where people from varied backgrounds can thrive. Our future EDI
 strategy therefore focuses on continuing to seek to achieve gender balance across all career
 stages; encouraging all colleagues, particularly women, to seek promotion; supporting and
 enabling colleagues to declare disabilities; scrutinising our recruitment processes and improving
 our accessibility to diverse applicants and thereby addressing our gender balance and the
 relatively low proportion of BAME colleagues (5%).

 To enable critical scrutiny of our recruitment processes, “blind” triaging of NUAcT applications is
 now undertaken; subsequent monitoring will determine whether this effects meaningful change.

 2.5.3 EDI in the REF Submission
 We have ensured that EDI considerations are embedded throughout our submission. For
 example, our outputs have been selected through an open process of self-nomination using our
 Research Management System followed by anonymous evaluation by at least two other senior
 academics with both an indicative score and reasons. The REF lead moderated the scores across
 disciplines. Selection of the return was by paper, not author, in line with our code of practice.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 We have continued to sustain a portfolio of major awards across the research councils, UK
 government, European, charitable and commercial sectors. Income to UoA1 from research grants
 and contracts was £270M.

 We highlight income from participation in more than 60 European funded projects (FP7, H2020,
 IMI, COST) where we have coordinated and led on research valued at >€90M (and with a direct
 income to Newcastle of £24M). Awards for externally-designated research Centres and regional
 and national infrastructure totalled £71.5M. Highlights include NIHR funding of £45M (Table, s1.2,
 page 3) and renewal of our Wellcome Trust Centre for Mitochondrial Research (£6.1M). In 2019
 we launched the MRC International Centre for Genomic Medicine in Neuromuscular Diseases
 (Straub, £3.2M). Income from commercial studies was worth £26M (323 projects). Our
 performance (UK top 10) in translational funding from MRC was specifically highlighted in their
 national evaluation report on Translational Research, 2008-2018.

 Staff in UoA1 contributed to the awards of five multi-year DTPs during this REF cycle with a
 combined value of nearly £21M.




Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.2 Infrastructure

 Our infrastructure supports our academic programmes and enables partnerships with
 collaborators in industry and healthcare. We have invested in buildings and equipment including
 the flagship Catalyst Building, a £44M bespoke headquarters for our National Innovation Centres
 for Ageing (NIC-A) and Data (NIC-D) and the NIHR Innovation Observatory (NIHRIO). We have
 created purpose-built biomedical and medicinal chemistry cancer research laboratories including
 the £5.5M Wolfson Childhood Cancer Centre (2016), housing ~90 clinical and non-clinical
 researchers, and refurbished our Drug Discovery Medicinal Chemistry laboratories in partnership
 with our Science Faculty. We have also purchased the Campus for Ageing and Vitality (CAV) from
 NuTH. This is one of our existing clinical research sites, home to our clinical ageing research
 activities, including the BRC, the Clinical Ageing Research Unit, our Imaging research Hub and
 CRESTA clinics (s3.3). Developing the CAV site is central to our future strategy (s1.4).

 3.3 Facilities

 Our infrastructure is grouped within Innovation Hubs which combine equipment, facilities and
 world-leading expertise.

 The Analytics Hub provides eight core scientific facilities delivering analytical technologies and
 expertise in Light Microscopy, Electron Microscopy, Flow Cytometry, Proteomics and Protein
 Production, Genomics & Sequencing, Bioinformatics Support, Bio-Screening and access to the
 Cat3 laboratory. The Hub also hosts the MRC-funded Single Cell Functional Genomics Unit. The
 Analytics Hub has 18 core staff aligned to the Innovation, Methodology and Application theme.
 The Hub technical leads secured funding for Spectral Flow Cytometry for multi-parameter single
 cell analysis (Wellcome Trust, 2020) and collaborative grants to drive cutting-edge research,
 including the Human Developmental Cell Atlas. Since 2014, the Analytics Hub has facilitated over
 754 publications. Combined investment of >£9.4M has ensured that the Analytics Hub delivers
 cutting-edge analytical technologies and methodologies.

 The Imaging Innovation Hub (Centre for In Vivo Imaging, CIVI) is a research-dedicated, multi-
 disciplinary research centre which leads MRI and PET research. Since 2014 we have expanded
 our MRI capability investing £1.5M in a second, multi-nuclear clinical 3T scanner with new core
 research posts. A further £5M investment by the University and the MRC (Clinical Research
 Capabilities and Technologies Initiative) provided a 3T-PET/MR scanner. The facility has been
 further strengthened by £1M university investment in the PET Tracer Production Unit to enable
 clinical-grade PET ligand production by the end of 2021. These facilities have supported >230
 projects, leading to >300 papers in this REF cycle. CIVI also operates the UK’s only vertical bore
 non-human primate scanner (4.7T, UoA4) and a 7T preclinical MRI scanner for basic bioscience
 and translational work in rodents.

 Our Clinical Research Hub provides comprehensive resources for interventional trials. We lead
 the Research Design Service NE & North Cumbria (Hancock) and trial design is enhanced by our
 strong academic Methodology Research Groups. The 20 members of the Biostatistics Research
 Group have expertise in the design, conduct, analysis and reporting of clinical trials, including
 advanced adaptive trial design (Wason, UoA2), of central importance to our Rare Disease
 research. Witham provides specific expertise for studies in Ageing populations. The Health
 Economics and Evidence Synthesis Groups (both UoA2) bring essential expertise to support
 translational research and underpin programmes across this UoA (DPFS, EME, HTA, IMI funding).
Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research also benefits from the only NIHRIO in the UK which horizon scans for medical
 technologies that are up to 10 years from becoming publicly available, and tracks progress as they
 evolve. The observatory has three core activities: technology briefings, advanced horizon
 scanning tools and patient involvement.

 The UKCRC-registered Newcastle Clinical Trials Unit has supported 107 trials over this REF
 period. The current portfolio comprises 33 trials spanning infectious disease, cancer and mental
 health (by classification: 16 CTIMPS; 2 ATMPS; 2 device trials; 3 surgical; 23 RCTs, 3 adaptive
 trials, 1 stepped wedge and 7 cohort studies). The total value of trials during the REF period is
 £95.2M and of active trials is >£30M.

 We co-manage four Clinical Research Facilities (CRFs) across the city with NuTH. In addition to
 our NIHR CRF, they are the Clinical Ageing Research Unit (CARU) which focuses on
 investigations in older people and is equipped with specialist gait assessment facilities; the Sir
 Bobby Robson Cancer Trials Research Centre at the Northern Centre for Cancer Care which
 carries out all phases of cancer trials, including paediatric studies; and a Dental CRF. Adjacent to
 CARU are our innovative CRESTA clinics (Clinics for Research and Service in Themed
 Assessments) which are one-stop, multi-disciplinary, research-integrated clinics centred on the
 needs of older patients with complex multiple disorders.

 The Pathology Hub is built around the MRC/EPSRC Newcastle Molecular Pathology Node
 (recently renamed NovoPath). It combines expertise in molecular and cellular pathology,
 computing and engineering to develop novel molecular pathology tests, with an emphasis on in
 vitro diagnostics and biomarker identification for disease stratification in chronic and rare diseases.
 Work is complemented by the NIHR Newcastle MedTech and In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative
 (MIC) providing high-quality evidence to demonstrate the potential value of new in vitro diagnostic
 tests. The combination of the Node, MIC and NIHRIO is a unique resource in the UK. The success
 of our infrastructure is illustrated by project awards totalling £22M supported by the Node and
 £14.5M to the MIC. The Newcastle MIC (with Leeds, Manchester and London MICs) is providing
 national evaluation mechanisms to accelerate promising diagnostics to real-world use through a
 Diagnostics and Technology Accelerator COVID-19 platform (CONDOR).

 Our researchers have access to extensive well-characterised human tissue samples in the
 Newcastle Biobank, which incorporates over a dozen registered and NHS-approved tissue banks
 held within the University. These include specialist collections in cancer, mitochondrial disease,
 neuromuscular diseases and orthopaedic conditions. The MRC-funded Newcastle Brain Tissue
 Resource collects and manages human tissue for research into neurodegenerative diseases. Our
 researchers also have access to the entire NuTH surgical pathology archives through the Cellular
 Pathologies Biobank. The Wellcome Trust-funded Human Developmental Biology Resource, co-
 hosted in Newcastle and London, collates embryonic and foetal tissue for functional genetic and
 cell-based research. This resource is critical to the international community and closely
 collaborates with the Human Cell Atlas Initiative.

 The Transplant and Regenerative Medicine Laboratory operated by NU in the NHS Newcastle
 Blood Centre provides a dedicated organ perfusion facility for pre-clinical human and large animal
 organ studies. Research focuses on techniques for organ maintenance and resuscitation prior to
 transplantation and develops processes for ex vivo delivery of advanced therapeutics to cells,
 organoids and whole organs. The associated MRC-funded Quality in Organ Donation (QUOD)

Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Expand Programme (s1.3.5) has additional human tissue banks derived from donor human
 pancreas, heart and lungs. This repository of fixed tissue, in parallel with perfused organs,
 precision-cut viable tissue slices and primary cells provides a unique resource with the goal of
 enhancing transplant outcomes, accelerating translation of advanced therapy organ replacement
 and ultimately enabling endogenous organ regeneration.

 3.4 Diagnostics North East and Therapeutics – Engaging with External Partners

 Our combined facilities between NU and NuTH provide one of the most comprehensive sets of
 diagnostic infrastructure in the country, spanning basic science, development, evaluation,
 adoption and horizon scanning, incorporating expertise in all elements of clinical diagnostics. We
 promote these under the banner of Diagnostics North East (DxNE), with the MIC and NovoPath
 at the core. DxNE provides a clear entry point and pathway for engagement for academic and
 commercial partners. Molecular diagnostics and precision medicine is central to our AHSC
 strategy and delivery plan: to deliver novel diagnostic and prognostic tests incorporating cell and
 molecular biomarkers, computational pathology and in vitro diagnostics.

 Therapeutics in Newcastle represents a further strong partnership between NU and NuTH.
 Advanced therapies infrastructure provides bespoke GMP clean manufacturing facilities,
 supporting research including gene therapy medicines, somatic cell therapies and tissue
 engineered products. Since 2014, we have invested in additional cryopreservation facilities and a
 negative pressure isolator to accommodate a growing portfolio of gene therapy commercial trials.
 A GLP tissue culture facility (2019) and flow cytometry (2020) facilitates the critical technology
 transfer of cellular therapies from research lab to GMP.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Overview

 We lead national and international research consortia and work closely with industry to bring our
 research to patients and the market. We support research funding assessment and distribution by
 governmental and charitable bodies. Selected examples highlighting the range of contributions
 our academics make are described below.

 4.2 National, International Partnerships

 We have a recognised international research profile, particularly in Europe. Our research has been
 central to 11 EU programmes and we have been Coordinator for eight. These programmes have
 significant commercial links, including two IMI2 consortia. Our leadership of LITMUS (Anstee)
 brings together a global alliance of 33 academic and 23 commercial partners whose research and
 products aim to diagnose, risk stratify and monitor NAFLD/NASH progression and fibrosis stage.
 The programme continues to expand, as new commercial partners engage with the
 comprehensive and robust biomarker evaluation programme leading towards regulatory
 qualification. We lead IDEA-FAST (Ng) to identify digital metrics for evaluation and monitoring of
 patients with neurodegenerative or immune-mediated inflammatory diseases such as Parkinson’s
 disease, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Primary Sjögren’s Syndrome and Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
 IDEA-FAST has 15 academic and 32 commercial partners, including Biogen, Roche, Pfizer, Sanofi
 and AstraZeneca. A feature of our international programmes (e.g. LITMUS, SCOPE-NMD,
 VISION-DMD, SKIP-NMD) is engagement with healthcare regulators (FDA, EMA, MHRA) through
 which we lead and articulate international opinion on use of new diagnostics for patient evaluation
Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and as trial outcome measures to accelerate drug discovery. Hilkens is co-founder of a
 Cooperation in Science & Technology (COST) EU tolerogenic cell therapy network (Action to
 Foster and Accelerate Cellular Tolerogenic Therapies, AFACTT). Dickinson is a member of the
 COST network EUROGRAFT, and the COST Action Integrated European Network on chronic
 graft-versus-host disease (GvHd), which includes use of advanced therapies for treatment of
 GvHd. Straub led the MYO-MRI COST Action on the use of advanced imaging in neuromuscular
 diseases, which spawned an international biennial conference (Blamire, Straub), now organising
 its 3rd meeting. The MRC International Centre for Genomic Medicine in Neuromuscular Diseases
 (McFarland, Straub, Turnbull with UCL and Cambridge) has links with 10 partner Centres in
 LMIC countries (Brazil, India, South Africa, Turkey, Zambia) to expand accurate genetic diagnosis
 and build international patient cohorts for trials in neuromuscular diseases. We contribute to the
 TREAT-NMD Advisory Committee for Therapeutics (TACT, Straub), an innovative approach to
 advise industry and de-risk orphan drug development in neuromuscular diseases. Haniffa (joint
 appointment with Wellcome Sanger Institute), is a leader of the international Human Cell Atlas
 (organising committee member).

 NU has a Strategic partnership with Monash University, Australia developing translational health
 and life science projects in Neuroscience, Infection and Immunity, Metabolism and Nutrition and
 Drug Discovery (recently awarded Research England I3 funding). The partnership supports
 student and ECR exchange and NUAcT positions.

 Nationally, we are part of the NIHR Musculoskeletal Translational Research Collaborative (TRC)
 (Isaacs), the MRC-Versus Arthritis Centre for Integrated research into Musculoskeletal Ageing
 (CIMA, Loughlin) with Sheffield and Liverpool and the NIHR Diet and Activity Research
 Translation (DART) Collaboration (Robinson, Stevenson). Jones leads the MRC Stratified
 Medicine UK-PBC consortium (Kirby, Oakley) with Birmingham, Cambridge, Imperial and
 commercial partners which led to FDA and EMA licensing and NICE approval of Ocaliva for PBC.
 Simpson is a work-package lead for the MRC-funded SHIELD Antimicrobial Resistance
 Consortium with Edinburgh and Sheffield. Our NIHR Blood and Transplant Research Unit in Organ
 Donation and Transplantation (Fisher) is a joint project with Cambridge. Our Node (Burt,
 Reynolds) is part of the National Pathology Imaging Cooperative supported by the Industrial
 Strategy Challenge Fund (with Leeds, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Liverpool). We are part of
 the Dementias Platforms UK (DPUK) imaging network with Edinburgh, Manchester, Cambridge,
 Imperial College and researchers in UoA1 also work closely with the NIHR Dementia TRC (led by
 Burn, UoA4). Blamire is on the UK Biobank Expert Imaging working group.

 Our Doctoral Training Programmes (DTPs) are multi-centre consortia building cross-HEI cohorts,
 including two BBSRC DTPs (with Durham and Liverpool), our MRC DTP (‘Discovery Medicine
 North’, with Sheffield, Liverpool and Leeds); and a Wellcome Trust Clinical PhD Academy (with
 Manchester, Sheffield and Leeds).

 4.3 Commercial Partnerships

 The translational focus of UoA1 supports an array of commercial interactions. We foster strategic
 partnerships in key areas including research into PBC and NAFLD with Intercept Pharmaceuticals
 (Anstee, Day, Jones); a 10-year drug-discovery partnership with Astex Pharmaceuticals (Wedge)
 including annual research support of £1M and access to in-house expertise; and with Gyroscope
 Therapeutics (Harris, Kavanagh), an innovative ocular gene therapy company with whom Harris
 has recently started a secondment, with the aim of transferring skills in cutting-edge adeno-

Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 associated virus technology and experience in clinical trial design back to NU upon her return in
 2021.

 As co-lead of the Northern Alliance Advanced Therapies Treatment Centre (NAATC, Shaw) we
 are developing the systems and infrastructure required to support advanced therapy delivery,
 increasing patient access with partners including Miltenyi, Datatrial, Cytiva, and Autolus. Our
 expertise also supports commercial contract advanced therapy research including manufacture of
 CD34+ stem cell therapy post-myocardial infarction (Cell Prothera), anti-CD362 antibody enriched
 mesenchymal stromal cells to treat acute respiratory distress syndrome, and autologous stem-cell
 based tissue engineered treatment for bronchopleural fistula (Videregen and the Royal Papworth
 Hospital). Gene therapy industrial partnerships now extend to 15 different companies including
 Autolus, Pfizer, Avexis, Achilles, and Chiesi.

 Our commercial collaborations in Transplantation are truly international and include XVIVO
 Perfusion (Sweden), MyCartis (Belgium), Athersys (USA) and Betalin Therapeutics (Israel). Key
 regulatory groundwork required to translate innovative research in organ transplantation into the
 clinic is being pursued in tandem with the Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult, and regulatory bodies
 (MHRA/HTA).

 4.4 Spin-Outs

 Trenell spun out “Changing Health” (2015) delivering the national digital behaviour change
 platform for NHS England, including for T2D, used by more than 600,000 patients. Our melanoma
 research led to formation of AmLo Biosciences (Lovat, 2017) delivering new diagnostic testing to
 market in 2021, securing ~£2.5M of investment and creating 4 new biotechnology jobs. In
 partnership with NuTH and our science faculty, we created ScubaTx (Scott, ECR) to
 commercialise technologies for persufflation for organ preservation. This followed the granting of
 5 patents, 4 of which were licensed to ScubaTX. We continue to work closely with Alcyomics
 (Dickinson, Skimune, ICS UoA5) whose business is testing the safety of cellular therapies,
 including tolDC, using a skin explant model. In tissue regeneration, we created 4 further spin-outs;
 Newcells Biotech Limited (Armstrong, Lako) which now employs >30 staff members and has
 raised >£10M in funding since its creation in 2015; Atelerix Limited, 3D Bio-Tissues Limited and
 CellulaREvolution (Connon) to which NU patents have been licensed. Hydrogel research with
 Atelerix Ltd led to a commercial partnership with world leading 3D bio-printing company CellInk to
 enable the transport and storage of 3D bio-printed tissue constructs. This research also led to
 improvements in corneal stem cell accessibility in collaboration with leading Indian eye hospital,
 the LV Prasad Eye Institute (Hyderabad) offering potential to treat many more patients.

 4.5 The Wider Impact of our Research

 Our research changes the health and wellbeing of patients and improves clinical training and
 practice. In addition to our UoA1 ICS, we have developed a range of treatments and diagnostic
 tools, e.g. NU research led to the FDA approved Erdafitinib with Astex (Irving, Newell
 MolCancerTherap2011) the “best-in-class” pan-fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor to treat
 metastatic bladder cancers (ICS UoA5). We improved the diagnosis of paediatric musculoskeletal
 problems (Foster PediatrRhemOnline2016) and made clinical diagnostic tools available
 internationally through an online resource (PMM) with 262,000 users worldwide and endorsed by
 international professional bodies including NICE, the Royal College of Nursing and Paediatric
 Rheumatology European Association. The integrated NHS pancreatic islet transplant programme
 was founded on our research (Shaw, DiabetesCare2020) which established safe and effective
Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 cell shipment protocols and is now the largest such programme world-wide. In collaboration with
 NuTH (Heslop NHMAP, Burns Breathe2019) we found that cognitive behaviour therapy was both
 clinically- and cost-effective for anxiety and depression in patients with COPD, with online therapy
 as effective as face-to-face, We created online courses for patients and respiratory nurses.

 We also develop tools to support drug development, developing precision cut slices (PCSs)
 (Borthwick, J. Mann, D. Mann, Oakley) to improve the predictability of drug action on fibrotic
 tissue ex vivo, leading to the spin-out company FibroFind and with NU spin out Alcyomics Ltd,
 Skimune (Dickinson), a skin based assay for predicting adverse immune reactions to novel
 chemical and pharmaceutical compounds (both UoA5 ICS).

 4.6 Responsiveness to National and International Priorities

 We have played key roles in the national COVID-19 response. Jones led the national approach
 to co-ordinating clinical academic trainees returning to support clinical NHS service. Allen (ECR),
 De Soyza, Simpson and Witham, and are on the NIHR Urgent Public Health Panel supporting
 national decision making (most contributors from a single HEI). Duncan led Newcastle’s major
 contribution to the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine clinical trial and co-chairs the Immunomodulators
 group of the UK COVID-19 Therapeutics Advisory Group, for the Royal College of Physicians
 producing rapid evidence summaries to promote safe, evidence-based use of immunomodulators
 in COVID-19, influencing NHSE guidance. Simpson is on the UK COVID-19 Therapeutic Advisory
 Panel (CTAP) Immune-Inflammatory subgroup. Duncan, Filby, Fisher, Hambleton, Haniffa,
 Harris and Kavanagh are participants in the UK COVID-19 Immunology Consortium. Duncan
 and Payne are co-investigators within the DHSC-funded PITCH study documenting T cell
 immunity to SARS-CoV2 longitudinally among infected and/or vaccinated healthcare workers.

 4.7 Engagement Activities

 We are leaders in Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPI/E) with VOICE (Valuing
 Our Intellectual Capital and Experience) being our world-leading network and associated online
 digital platform. Established in 2007 as a small regional panel, it has grown significantly and now
 sustains a large network of ’research active citizens’, supporting >1000 research projects. It is a
 coordinating mechanism for public engagement and is the PPI/E mechanism for our NIHR
 infrastructure as well as NIC-A and NIHRIO. VOICE is connecting other Universities engagement
 activity together (e.g. in 2019 partnering with Imperial College London to develop VOICE in the
 London region). This empowers researchers to access, involve and engage members of the public
 from different geographical locations and to increase diversity and inclusion. It is also developing
 an international presence, establishing chapters in Singapore, China and East Coast US.

 In addition, our researchers host varied and thriving PPI/E Groups. For example, in Organ
 Donation and Transplantation (Fisher), research is vetted by a dedicated panel as early in the
 development process as possible and active co-production is encouraged. We were recently
 commissioned by NIHR to identify strategies for better engagement of the BAME community in
 consenting to organ donation (Exley (UoA3), Fisher). We worked closely with the PBC
 Foundation, a UK-based organisation of 14,000 members, to change the name of PBC to primary
 biliary cholangitis. Although a small change, the new name removes the cirrhosis stigma and is
 now accepted around the world (Jones, ClinResHepatolGastroenterol2015). Hedley and Straub
 led Rare 2030, a panel of over 200 rare disease experts, a quarter of whom were patients or
 patient advocates. Using Foresight methodology, this generated comprehensive policy
 recommendations, guiding European activities for people living with a rare diseases. In Cancer,
Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 we work closely with Newcastle-based organisations including Perspectives and The Young
 Person’s Advisory Group. We have established diverse and active PPI groups to advise on several
 major programmes (e.g. COLO-SPEED, SWEET), and patient groups are regularly co-applicants
 on funding applications.

 4.8 Strategic Voice

 We contribute to shaping the research agenda in the UK, the NHS and Europe. Our expertise and
 leadership are recognised through our strategic advisory roles in healthcare research and
 government policy.

 Day is Chair of the Independent Office for Strategic Coordination of Health Research, Jones,
 A.Sayer and Hancock (2016-17) are NIHR Strategy Board members, while Trenell advised the
 ESPRC Healthcare Technologies Panel and Isaacs the NIHR Global Health Research Group.
 A.Sayer, Witham and Burn have contributed to House of Lords Science and Technology
 Committee (HoL-STC) inquiries on Ageing and the Science of COVID-19 respectively. Burn is
 also a Specialist Adviser for the HoL-STC Genomics & Genome-editing Inquiry and serves on the
 Scientific Advisory Committee for Genomics England. Bushby served on the EU Committee of
 Experts on Rare Diseases advising the European Commission on rare disease policies. We have
 also contributed to HEFCE and Research England actions through shaping and delivering the
 REF process (Blamire REF2014, REF2021, Jones, Stevenson, B.Walker REF2021, Vormoor
 REF2014). Connon contributed to the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology briefing
 on 3D Bio-Printing. From 2021, Straub is the UK representative to the European Cooperation in
 Science and Technology.

 Our NHS partnerships are strong, now under the AHSC umbrella, and driven locally by the 66
 clinical academics returned in UoA1 who deliver frontline clinical care, with a further 66 “Category
 C” honorary NHS staff whose research is closely integrated into the Faculty. Our academics
 contribute to NHS policy and leadership. Burn is Chairman of Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals
 NHS Foundation Trust. Shaw chairs the UK Islet Transplant Consortium and represents
 Newcastle on the NHS Blood and Transplant (NHSBT) Pancreas Advisory Group. RW.Taylor is
 the Scientific Director of the Yorkshire and North East Genomic Laboratory Hub.

 In line with our strong portfolio of research funding from NIHR we also contribute back to their
 evaluation processes and to NHS and NICE assessments. Twelve of our clinical academics have
 contributed to the work of NICE providing expert input for NICE guideline development and
 O’Brien is Chair of a NICE Technology Appraisal Committee.

 4.9 Research Councils, Charities and Other Funding Bodies

 We recognise the importance of engaging with research funders to provide peer review for grant
 awards and fellowships. All of our academics are actively engaged with peer review appropriate
 to their seniority and research area. We contribute to grant panels:

 MRC
   -      DPFS: Isaacs
   -      Experimental Medicine: Plummer (Chair)
   -      II Board: Hambleton, Mellor
   -      PSM Board: B.Walker (Chair), A.Sayer
   -      FLF Panel: B.Walker (Chair)
Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    - Regen Med Panel: Connon
 BBSRC
    - Committee C: Lako
 EPSRC
    - HTP: Blamire
 NIHR
    - EME Programme Committee: Plummer, Simpson
    - Expert Review Panel on Multimorbidity: M.Walker
 HTA programme committees
    - Prioritisation Committee: Integrated Community Health and Social Care: Witham
    - Prioritisation Committee: Hospital Based Care: de Soyza (Chair), Frith
    - Programme Funding (Commissioning): Heer
 Wellcome Trust
    - Science Interview Panel: Hambleton
    - Expert Review Group Immunology and Inflammation: Haniffa
    - Expert Review Groups Genetics, Genomics and Population Research: Cordell, Veltman.
    - Seed Award Science Committee: Haniffa
    - Multi-user Equipment and Technology Development Committee: Filby (Technologist)

 Our national leadership of clinical and biomedical training is demonstrated through contributions
 to national boards and are particularly influential in terms of policy and practice in clinical academic
 training with Jones as National Training lead for NIHR Infrastructure and Dean of the NIHR
 Academy. Jones was awarded an OBE in 2019 in recognition of his contribution to the
 development of clinical training (and people with liver disease).

    -     NIHR Integrated Academic Training Panel: Jones (Chair)
    -     MRC Clinical Training and Career Development Panel: Simpson (Deputy Chair)
    -     MRC Non-Clinical Training and Career Development Panel: Endicott (Deputy Chair)
    -     MRC Clinical Academic Research Partnership (CARP) panel: Jones, Simpson
    -     Versus Arthritis Fellowships panel: Hilkens
    -     BHF Fellowship Committee: Arthur
    -     CRUK New Investigator Committee: Clifford
    -     Versus Arthritis Fellowships Advisory Group: Isaacs

 In line with our international leadership in translational cancer research, drug discovery and clinical
 trials we contribute to strategy and direction for CRUK

    -     New Agents Committee: Plummer (Chair)
    -     Small Molecule Expert Review Panel: Wedge (Vice-Chair)
    -     Science Committee: Endicott, Plummer
    -     Experimental Medicine Expert Review panel: Bomken

 UoA1 researchers contributed to 59 other panels across the charity spectrum.

 Of the 169 academics in our return 75 have contributed as Editor or Deputy Editor to 123 peer-
 reviewed journals.



Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.10 Prizes and Recognition

 UoA1 researchers delivered numerous invited presentations, of note being the Harveian Oration,
 Royal College of Physicians (Burn, 2019). Important prizes include the William Farr Medal
 (Witham, Worshipful Society of Apothecaries 2018), the Michael Mason Prize, (Ng, British Society
 for Rheumatology 2015), the King Faisal Foundation International Prize for Medicine (Veltman,
 2016). Haniffa received the Lister Institute Research Prize Fellowship (2016), the European
 Federation of Immunological Societies ACTERIA Prize (2018) and the Foulkes Foundation Medal
 for biomedical research (2019). We particularly highlight prizes awarded to our ECRs; the LEO
 Foundation Future Leader Award (Amarnath, 2019) the British Society of Gastroenterology
 President’s Medal (Lamb, first time awarded to a junior doctor, 2014) and the L'Oreal UNESCO
 “For Women in Science” Rising Talent Award (Pickett, WT Career Re-entry fellow, 2020).




Page 32
