Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Glasgow Caledonian University

 Unit of Assessment:
 UoA 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context

 This unit brings together a diverse group of researchers with various specialisms in media,
 communication and the study of culture more broadly (including sport, physical activity and
 language). In terms of the overall research activity of the University, it is a comparatively small
 unit (8.4 FTE), though one that plays a key role in helping to foreground the value and
 importance of ‘culture’ (as broadly defined) to the University’s overall ‘Common Good’ social
 mission of transforming lives, enriching communities and helping to contribute to societal benefit.
 Document REF5a outlines the University’s overall research strategy with a commitment and
 strategic alignment to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This unit aligns to that
 strategy through its general engagement with the societal challenge of ‘inclusive societies’ and
 within that the theme of ‘Social Justice, Equalities and Communities’: in this case, with a
 particular focus (broadly defined) on the socio-cultural analysis of policy and practice and
 concerns with questions of identity, diversity and equity. Thus, the research within this Unit
 specifically aligns to SDGs 3 (Good Health and Well-being), 4 (Quality Education), 5 (Gender
 Equality) and 10 (Reduced Inequalities).

 All of the researchers within the unit are situated within the Glasgow School for Business and
 Society (GSBS) which is one of the three main schools that comprise the University. Though
 various researchers within it have strong interests in the media industries and the ‘business’ of
 media and communication, the unit generally aligns to the ‘Society’ aspect of the School’s title
 and associated activity.

 When the unit submitted in REF 2014, the University’s ‘Common Good’ mission was relatively
 new and the central strategic aim expressed then was to ensure the unit’s research activity
 would align ever more closely with the overall University mission going forward. This has been
 achieved during the assessment period whereby the overwhelming majority of current unit
 researchers and their outputs, however varied and diverse their particular foci, exhibit some
 concern or preoccupation in their work either with a socio-cultural critique of present or past
 policies or practices in the media, communication or culture industries and/or with questions of
 representation, particularly of groups whose cultural identity may have been
 disadvantaged/minoritised/stigmatised whether at local, national or international level. Whether
 examining particular industrial practices in television, cinema and social media, or media
 representations of gender, small nations or in sport, there is a socio-cultural critical flavour to the
 research submitted in this unit that is in overall broad alignment with the University’s social good
 mission.

 Such a preoccupation with improving the ‘Common Good’ also suits itself very naturally to
 endeavours to create impact, or benefit, in wider society. The two impact case studies selected
 (The War Game [1965]; Rethinking Scots Gaelic as an Economic and Social Asset) both in their
 different ways exhibit a determination to draw attention to previous issues of marginalisation and
 inclusivity to widen the sphere of representation and of permissible public communication. They
 have arisen from an impact strategy, again explicitly linked to the wider University mission, that
 aims to use research within the unit not only to speak to other scholars but to actively engage
 citizens and communities in the name of a common public good, particularly in the case of those
 who have been stigmatised, minoritised or otherwise disadvantaged. Both selected impact case
 studies reflect this, and in their different ways contain a consciousness-raising aspect in that
 regard. They take their place as part of a broader pattern of activity in the unit over the
 assessment period which has aimed, whenever possible, to take research out of the study room

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and to try to make it relevant in terms of speaking to a wider world, whether that be in terms of
 sustained industry, community or public media interaction and engagement. Section 4 of this
 document outlines a range of examples of these types of engagements and contributions to the
 wider society.

 A concern to engage the wider world allies naturally with a willingness to strive for a more open
 research culture. Document REF5a outlines the University’s overall open access policy and the
 mandatory requirement for academic staff to deposit full text copies of final version academic
 journal articles and conference proceedings into its Research Information System and
 Repository (PURE). Researchers in this unit invariably go beyond this and upload a range of
 their outputs to ResearchOnline the University’s publicly accessible research repository,
 including links to digital articles written for a wider public (e.g. for The Conversation) and/or to
 other public media outlets that they have been involved with. The unit also supports a culture of
 research integrity by following and abiding fully by all the various policies and codes of practice
 in this area as fully detailed and set out in document REF5a.


 Progress Since REF 2014

 Since REF 2014, the structure of the unit has changed somewhat. In REF 2014, the unit
 included a greater proportion of staff with research interests in ‘culture’ (broadly defined) who
 were located in other organisational units within the institution beyond the immediate subject
 area of media and communication studies. Due to several staff changes and retirements, the
 number of researchers from units outside the Department of Media and Journalism has
 narrowed down to two. These researchers (Harris and Tulle), whose outputs have been badged
 in the current REF submission as ‘interdisciplinary’, continue to make important contributions to
 research in the Unit within their specialist areas - cultural study of sport and of healthy living,
 respectively - enhancing the vitality and sustainability of the research environment by allowing it
 to continue to explore a multiplicity of cultural aspects of the ‘Common Good’ and of social and
 individual wellbeing.

 Changes of staff in a small unit such as this one has led inevitably, however, to a rethinking of
 some of the objectives originally articulated in the submission to REF 2014. While, as stated, the
 central expressed strategic aim of aligning ever more closely to the University’s Common Good
 mission and the SDGs has been comprehensively achieved, some specific objectives previously
 articulated such as building cross-university collaborations with other areas within the University
 have been revised due to the aforementioned staff changes. At the same time, other expressed
 objectives such as focusing more research effort on impact-related projects have undoubtedly
 been realised: as evidenced, for example, by the increased willingness of the unit to undertake a
 range of public-facing and community engagement-related research activities, discussed in more
 detail under Section 4.

 At the same time, new staff replacements specifically within the media and communications area
 (Bassil-Morozow and McWhirter) have provided ‘new blood’ and invigorated the research
 environment with fresh impetus. It has made good strategic sense, in light of this, therefore to
 rethink previous directions of travel in order best to maximise these new opportunities. The
 intervening years since REF 2014 can be summarised as a period of strategic transition away
 from a previous, more cross-organisational focus in terms of the strategy of the research unit
 and towards a refocusing on the ‘core’ media and communication subject terrain within which the
 majority of the current contributing members research.

 This has been coterminous with and influenced by institutional developments in the intervening
 period such as the creation in 2018 of a separate Department of Media and Journalism within
 the Glasgow School for Business and Society and the successful application in 2019 for the
 formation of a specific Media and Culture Research Group within the School. Centred around
 staff located in the Department of Media and Journalism though open to all researchers across
 the University with an interest in Media and Culture, the formation of this dedicated research

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 group helps provide a newly recognised formal structure within the institution for supporting
 research in this subject area.

 These various changes have helped boost and consolidate the sustainability of research as the
 unit looks forward to the next five years. Despite the variety of the submitted outputs, strategy
 has been centred and vitality coalesced in this current REF period around the following research
 sub-areas (in alphabetical order):

    •   Cultural study of sport and of healthy living
    •   Jungian film studies
    •   Media representations of small nations
    •   TV and cinema fiction analysis

 The majority of submitted outputs cluster around one or more of these sub-areas. These all fit
 within one or more of the broader themes of ‘media representation’ and of the ‘socio-cultural
 analysis of policy and practice’ within ‘inclusive societies’, previously described as related to the
 general research strategy of the unit within the overarching context of the University’s Common
 Good mission and the SDGs.


 Going Forward

 Research objectives for the future are to enhance sustainability through focusing research in
 these existing identified areas of strength and vitality (Objective 1), with a view to continuing to
 grow overall research capacity (Objective 2) following recent staffing changes that have seen the
 positive results of ‘new blood’ replacements. Here, the increase of staff with significant
 responsibility for research becomes important.

 Document REF5a outlines the variety of ways the institution encourages the development of
 Early Career Researchers. Besides the existing research sub-areas of strength outlined above,
 work in Journalism Studies within the Department of Media and Journalism has been identified
 as an area of potential research growth in the future. Members of staff in this area, who have
 been generally recruited from the world of professional practice, are being supported with a view
 to becoming in future, staff with significant responsibility for research as defined by the
 University’s REF Code of Practice. This should eventually help to grow a new sub-area of
 academic research strength in Journalism Studies (Objective 3), an area of activity that should
 assist the unit well in the future in terms of continuing to align itself with the University’s overall
 socially outward-looking mission. One researcher in Journalism (McConville) has already
 progressed to significant responsibility for research status and has an eligible output included in
 the current REF through sustained mentoring from experienced research colleagues alongside
 wider institutional research support.

 Together with similar ongoing development of other prospective sub-areas within the
 Department, this will allow the unit to grow its research capacity specifically within media and
 communication fields. In turn, this will facilitate the unit to engage in a wider range of impact-
 generating projects (Objective 4), building upon the significant work already achieved in this
 area. The future development of previous industry professionals into staff with significant
 responsibility for research lends itself well, for example, not merely to increasing but also
 widening the range of research income (Objective 5), such that as well as continuing to target
 traditional blue-chip funders like the UK Research Councils, researchers with strong knowledge
 and links to industry and professional practice would have the potential to win greater
 Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) income for the unit. With the formation of a new
 Department of Media and Journalism and a formally recognised Media and Culture research
 group within the structures of the institution, the opportunity now exists going forward to create a
 more structured research environment centred specifically around media, communication and
 cultural studies research (Objective 6). The overall direction of travel is therefore towards


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capacity growth and planned enlargement of activity, ensuring the continued future vitality and
 sustainability of this long-established research unit within Glasgow Caledonian University.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Staffing strategy and staff development are intrinsically related to the unit research and impact
 strategy outlined above. The two ‘new blood’ appointments to this small unit during the current
 assessment period (Bassil-Morozow and McWhirter) replaced media and communication staff
 who had not contributed research to previous assessments. Their outputs and activity thus
 brought net additions to media and communication research within the unit. Their appointments
 were strategic in research terms in seeking to boost specific areas of already identified existing
 research strength within the unit, namely ‘Jungian film analysis’ and ‘TV and cinema fiction
 analysis’ across which, amongst other fields, both these researchers work. Both are on full-time
 permanent contracts (one has recently been promoted to Senior Lecturer) and both have been
 supported by institutionally approved processes of mentoring, probation and appraisal.

 Document REF5a sets out the institution’s processes and policies for supporting staff
 development in research including its implementation of the Researcher Development
 Concordat. These processes encompass support for the development of both established and
 Early Career Researchers. While the current submitting members of the research unit are all
 established researchers, there are, as previously outlined in Section 1, a total of four staff
 identified within the Department of Media and Journalism who are in the process of being
 integrated into the research culture with a view to progressing in future to having significant
 responsibility for research. Staff in this category are at present being actively mentored by
 members of the research unit with a view to enabling a future increase of staff with significant
 responsibility for research, as defined by the University’s REF Code of Practice. Forms of active
 mentoring range from advice on academic researcher development to reading and commenting
 on sample practice drafts of academic writing.

 In this fashion, the unit is engaged not only in objectives of growing and diversifying research
 capacity (see Section 1) but also in planning for and managing the future of research within the
 unit, including succession planning. The demographic profile of the current research unit
 comprises one lecturer, three senior lecturers, four professors and a member of staff on a Head
 of Department management contract. All are permanent, no member is on a fixed term contract.
 Of these, while two, as stated above, are recent appointments who are still relatively early on in
 their full-time academic careers (Bassil-Morozow and McWhirter), others are generally mid-to-
 senior career with the exception of one professor (O’Donnell) approaching retirement who opted
 in 2016 to take 0.4FTE status. The planned management of research via the development and
 growth of a new group of future researchers within the Department of Media and Journalism will
 ensure the continued vitality and sustainability of the Unit in the years to come, despite the
 forthcoming retirement at some point of one current professorial member (who will be replaced
 with a new appointment at this level), together with an enhanced and balanced demographic
 profile.

 As outlined in Document REF5a, the University’s policy is to provide research support to staff at
 all stages of their careers and the University’s website evidences a wide range of resources,
 workshops and guidance, designed around the Vitae Researcher Development Framework,
 which are intended to support personal and professional development at all stages
 (https://www.gcu.ac.uk/graduateschool/researcherdevelopment/). These range from Career
 Development support and planning for Early Career Researchers to a recently introduced
 Progression and Performance Scheme for Professors designed to facilitate the latter in
 professional career development and progression. The Department of Media and Journalism
 operates locally agreed arrangements for research/impact leave whereby staff required to finish
 a major research or impact project can gain relief from teaching and administration duties. This
 has enabled, in the current assessment period, one member of the research unit to complete an

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic monograph (Miller) while in other instances there has been temporary secondment to
 facilitate research-related exchanges with the media industry and associated cultural bodies and
 to keep up-to-date with latest changes. This has included visits to the London headquarters of
 YouTube (McWhirter) and work with BAFTA (McWhirter and Miller), particularly around research
 into environmental sustainability in film and TV production.

 With its declared social mission for the improvement of the ‘Common Good’, Glasgow
 Caledonian University positively encourages its staff to engage with industry and other external
 bodies for the wider societal benefit and this underpins and enables the work of research unit
 members with a range of media industry and cultural sector bodies. Impact is built into the
 University’s overall research strategy, meaning staff are rewarded and recognised not only for
 carrying out high-quality academic research but also for achieving impact with benefit to the
 wider society and culture. Both research and impact activities form part of the recognised
 objectives of the Performance and Development Annual Review (PDAR) which all staff
 undertake, while ‘knowledge transfer’ and ‘community engagement & outreach’, along with
 ‘research’, form three of the five main criteria in the University’s academic promotion process. By
 these various means, unit staff have both encouragement and are incentivised to achieve impact
 from their research.


 Research Students

 Increased PGR recruitment and completion rates formed a key target of the unit’s submission to
 REF 2014. In the last assessment period, this small unit recorded three successful research
 doctoral degree completions. In the current assessment period, this has seen 133% growth to
 just under seven (6.99 FTE). In addition, there were four other completions not defined as
 research doctoral degrees and therefore not counted as part of REF data.

 All PhD students are supervised by at least two members of academic staff, with at least one
 member of the team having at least one successful past PhD completion. This mechanism not
 only allows our PhD students to benefit from a diversity of supervisory contact throughout their
 doctoral progress but also facilitates the development of less experienced supervisors who are
 able to receive mentoring support on their team from a more experienced supervisor with
 previous completions. All supervisors must undergo doctoral research supervision training,
 including a mandatory requirement for experienced supervisors to participate in professional
 development activity in this area at least once every two years.

 Our doctoral students are diverse and there is a diversity of approaches to recruitment. Students
 have the option of either full-time or part-time study: in the current period for research doctoral
 degree students, 3.0 FTE were part-time; 3.99 FTE full-time. The overall gender breakdown was
 3.33 FTE female and 3.66 FTE male, a relatively equitable balance. Over the assessment
 period, our students came not only from the UK (4.0 FTE) but Iran, Italy, Malaysia, Oman and
 Saudi Arabia (42.8% international, 2.99 FTE in total). Of total FTE completions, just under 50%
 (3.32 FTE) were self-funded or sponsored by the student’s national government. Whether home
 or overseas, applicants regularly approach the unit with proposals for their own original PhD
 projects based on a desire, for example, to work with a particular supervisor due to their
 research expertise in a specific proposed PhD topic, or through the reputation of the unit in
 particular areas of research. In all cases, recruitment takes place on the basis of academic
 qualifications and supervisory capacity, together with the required English language proficiency
 of the applicant.

 The remaining research doctoral completions (3 FTE) were funded by the unit successfully
 bidding for University or School (Faculty) three-year PhD bursary studentships. These
 studentships were offered periodically on a competitive basis throughout the assessment period
 (usually annually, though sometimes twice-yearly) with potential supervisory teams invited to
 propose PhD projects arising from supervisory interests/expertise and aligned with the overall
 University and/or linked School research strategy. Funds were bid for competitively and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assessed on institution-wide common criteria with successful projects being publicly advertised
 and student recruitment taking place via competitive application and interview, based on
 academic merit and qualifications criteria. 0.67 FTE were exempt from fees.

 There are extensive monitoring and support mechanisms for our PhD students including skills
 development for career planning and future employment. All PGR students within this research
 unit greatly benefit from membership and participation in a University-wide Graduate School
 consisting of currently over 400 (headcount) PGRs from over 50 countries worldwide. This is the
 environment into which our PGR students are fully integrated and it provides central collegiate
 support, development and mechanisms for ensuring the successful monitoring of their progress
 throughout every stage of their doctoral studies.

 The Graduate School website outlines the PhD journey which all doctoral students within this
 unit undertake from initial induction and registering of the research programme of study to
 submitting the finished thesis and undertaking the viva voce examination. Supervisory meetings
 with full-time students take place at least once every calendar month (every two calendar
 months for part-time students) with meetings records completed at that time and an annual
 progress report completed at the end of every year of study. Confirmed progression to PhD is
 assessed after nine months for full-time students (fourteen for part-time students) through the
 student being required to submit a 6000-8000 word report on progress so far and participating in
 an oral presentation on their project and mini-viva. On this basis, if approved, the student’s
 progression to PhD status is confirmed.

 Coupled with monitoring are a range of personal academic development and support
 mechanisms throughout the PhD student’s time within the research unit. The Graduate School
 offers a wide range of resources, workshops and guidance in order to enhance research skills as
 well as support personal and professional development. Its Researcher Development
 Programme, designed around the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, maintains
 delivery of over 150 workshops per annum for PGRs as well as for supervisors and research
 staff. In terms of our own PGRs, these have ranged from attending workshops on successful
 doctoral writing to public engagement and media training to career management skills, including
 how to apply for academic jobs and handle job interviews. As part of their monitoring and
 support, our PGRs maintain a personal development record related to the four domains of the
 Researcher Development Framework and are encouraged to record examples of professional
 development activity such as attending workshops and presenting conference papers. By these
 various means, our students are not only helped with support to develop skills for the enabling of
 successful completion of their PhD but are also successfully prepared for a future career.

 For all PGRs, there is a specific allocated budget held centrally by the School that can be
 accessed for the purposes of attending and presenting at conferences, networking and archival
 and other research visits. There are also regular opportunities to participate in part-time teaching
 and assessment within junior level media and communication undergraduate modules. These
 opportunities are consistently valued by doctoral research students within the Department since
 they not only help supplement income but also provide valuable professional career experience
 to assist pursuing a full-time academic lecturing position on PhD completion. Our graduate
 students are explicitly required to attend Department of Media and Journalism research
 seminars and are encouraged to present their work in progress and to receive individual
 feedback within a supportive, local collegiate atmosphere. They are, also more widely, invited to
 school/faculty seminar series, namely the Glasgow School for Business and Society research
 seminars, which are designed to encourage and facilitate the presentation of research work at all
 levels, ranging from external visiting speakers delivering finished papers to graduate students
 wishing to test ideas in development with a wider audience. In this way, our PGR students are
 fully integrated into the research culture of the department, wider School and University as a
 whole.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity

 As a University with a social mission to improve the ‘Common Good’, Glasgow Caledonian
 University places particular emphasis on equality and diversity. In 2020, the institution was
 placed within the top twenty universities in the world for gender equality and for reducing
 inequalities, according to the Times Higher Education annual University Impact Rankings. The
 University ranked 12th in the world in achieving gender equality (first in Scotland and third in the
 UK) and 20th for reducing inequalities (second in Scotland and seventh in the UK).

 The University has been formally recognised for its commitment to promoting gender equality
 through the attainment of the Equality Challenge Unit (ECU)’s prestigious Athena SWAN
 Institutional Bronze Award. The institution first signed the Athena SWAN Charter in 2011 and
 reaffirmed its commitment by signing up to the new May 2015 principles. These principles now
 embrace arts, humanities, social sciences, business and law subjects as well as STEMM and so
 have direct applicability to this particular research unit.

 This is the institutional context that evidences and underpins the commitment to equality and
 diversity which benefits positively all staff working in this research unit along with our research
 students and which ensures an inclusive environment for everyone.

 In terms of examples of specific related unit activity, one ‘new blood’ staff member of this unit
 (Bassil-Morozow) participated in the Aurora Leadership Development Programme between
 October 2018 and March 2019. This is the initiative designed to address developing the
 leadership potential of women within the sector. Participation in this programme provided this
 staff member with invaluable opportunities to reflect upon her personal and professional
 development and to advance her research leadership skills while still at a relatively early stage
 of her professional career.

 Another submitting member (Miller) received special School financial support to attend a
 residential writing retreat in January 2018, since followed up by a number of internal day-long
 writing retreats, which greatly assisted the development of her research outputs in the current
 assessment period, including the successful completion of a new single-authored monograph
 that was also aided by support for remote working. Document REF5a outlines that the University
 has a record number of female professors: 40%. This compares currently to approx. 24% of
 professors elsewhere in Scotland. Within the current assessment period, one female member of
 this research unit (Tulle) achieved successful promotion to professor.

 In its construction of the REF submission, there has been due regard by the submitting unit to
 equality and diversity issues in compliance with the institution’s Code of Practice for the REF,
 which is underpinned by four main principles: transparency, consistency, accountability and
 inclusivity. In terms of the latter, the Code of Practice, in line with the University’s Equality
 Outcomes 2017-2021, is designed to promote an inclusive environment, ensuring that any
 member of staff of the institution with protected characteristics who is assessed as having
 significant responsibility for research can have the excellence of their research fully reflected in
 the REF.

 The procedure for selecting REF outputs in the submitting research unit followed this Code of
 Practice and alongside selecting eligible outputs on the basis of research excellence in terms of
 originality, significance and rigour, there was also a particular concern in this unit to ensure a
 generally equal representation and distribution of outputs. The submission is not skewed heavily
 in terms of distribution towards outputs of the most senior or established researchers at the
 expense of less established members. Instead, there has been a concern to aim for a general
 equality of distribution in order to display representativeness of research across the unit. As a
 result, any member of the submitting unit peer-assessed to have had more than one eligible
 output of REF quality 3* or above within the current assessment period has had more than one
 output included. In this way attention has been paid to ensuring a generally even proportion of
 submitted outputs in order to promote an inclusive approach. Eligible outputs were initially

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviewed by three internal readers, including at least one with protected characteristics, in order
 to ensure equality, diversity and inclusion.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income to the Unit during the REF period included grants from Bòrd na Gàidhlig (the
 Gaelic Language Board); Highlands and Islands Enterprise and the Carnegie Corporation of
 New York.

 These awards all linked directly to the research outputs and/or impact case studies submitted by
 this unit for the current assessment period. Thus the Carnegie Corporation grant assisted Harris’
 engagement and network activities arising directly from his research work on Sports, Events and
 Communities, while the winning of the Gaelic Language grants provided the foundations for the
 submitted impact case study in this area. Each of these funded projects arose from a strategy of
 generating research income based on a synergy between outputs/impact projects and carefully
 targeted funding applications which were focused around specific areas of established research
 strength, where it was judged there would be a greater likelihood of success within the current
 competitive funding environment.

 In this aim, the unit was supported by a wider organisational infrastructure. This was provided at
 institutional, school/faculty and departmental level. At institutional level, the University’s
 Research and Innovation Office (RIO) provides support for all aspects of research-related
 activity including, in the current assessment period, supporting individual members of this
 research unit at all stages with their grant and knowledge transfer partnership applications, for
 example to UK research councils, public bodies, industry and charities. This includes support
 with pre-award, post-award and with metrics processes. RIO, together with Library Services,
 also manage the process for the REF, including the management of selection of research
 outputs and impact case studies. The institution has invested significantly in the research
 information system, PURE, which has been used throughout the current assessment period to
 manage research activity within the unit, including the ‘open access’ minimum requirement for
 members to upload author final versions of accepted academic journal articles and conference
 proceedings (though unit members exceed this minimum requirement: see Section 1).
 Throughout the assessment period, RIO, in liaison with the University’s Graduate School, has
 also offered courses and workshops which have helped unit researchers to increase and/or
 enhance the quality of their research output: for example, Miller’s involvement with writers’
 retreats outlined in Section 2.

 At school (faculty) level, the research support infrastructure is principally led by the Associate
 Dean of Research (ADR), reporting to the Dean of School, who works closely with RIO to ensure
 a unified approach to supporting research. (Since August 2016, the ADR has been Harris, a
 member of this Unit). Media and Culture research (including Communication) has member
 representation on the School Research Committee and now a formally recognised research
 group within the School. Since 2014, there has also been significant investment by the institution
 in creating a school-based system of research support for academics through the appointment of
 Research Advisers and the recruitment of Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange Officers
 whose specific remit is to encourage and optimise the impact of staff research. In terms of this
 particular unit’s impact activities, this has paid significant dividends, for example through the
 School’s Impact Officer playing an enabling role in helping Cook organise, in liaison with the
 University’s Community Engagement Co-ordinator, a public education and outreach event on his
 work on The War Game (November 2019) which achieved ESRC Festival of Social Sciences
 funding. Feedback from this event, in turn, helped evidence the public impact of Cook’s ‘The
 War Game’ research.

 At departmental level, in terms of the Department of Media and Journalism where the majority of
 this unit’s members are located, currently there are two Research Professors (Cook and
 O’Donnell) who provide main research leadership and mentoring support to other colleagues at
 a range of differing research experience levels, including to professional practice staff being

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported in academic research development (see Section 1). Support includes being the
 experienced supervisor on co-supervised PhDs with other less experienced colleagues, offering
 advice on research career development, mentoring ECRs along with reading and feeding back
 on draft research work and research applications produced by other colleagues from the unit.
 Every research unit member is allocated departmental funds in order to facilitate attendance at
 conferences to present papers and/or for staff development as well as for external engagement,
 industry engagement and impact activities. The department has a travel and conference budget
 amounting to 10% of the overall non-staff, non-industry accreditation budget that can be
 accessed for these purposes.

 The Department of Media and Journalism has extensive technical facilities including TV and
 radio studios; a dedicated newsroom, plus the latest digital video and audio production and
 editing equipment and software; all of which are continually upgraded to keep pace with industry
 standards. These facilities are staffed by two full-time technicians employed within the
 Department solely to service the needs of this area. There is thus an extensive infrastructure of
 facilities and technical assistance to support activities within the unit, particularly in relation to
 impact.

 The work of the unit is additionally enhanced by some considerable benefits-in-kind. The
 Department hosts the successful and prestigious Masters in Television Fiction Writing which in
 the ten years of its existence has attracted over £500,000 of sponsorship monies from media
 companies such as Warners Media, BBC Scotland, Larkhall Films, Shed Media, MG Alba and
 Fremantle Media. This programme helps research because it regularly attracts visiting speakers
 from the very top of the media industry, including in recent years Jed Mercurio, Martin
 Compston, Phil Redmond, Ann Mitchell and David Hayman, who present masterclasses and
 provide important industry insights and updates not only to the Masters students but to academic
 researchers who also attend these classes. This benefit-in-kind particularly supports the area of
 ‘TV and Cinema Fiction Analysis’, one of the four research cluster areas of vitality and strength
 identified in Section 1; as well as, to a lesser extent, ‘Media Representations of Small Nations’.
 Donations of scripts, treatments and TV series ‘bibles’ have also been made to the institution by
 the media industry, including the BBC and ITV. In addition to their usefulness for the Masters
 programme, these benefits-in-kind help encourage and support the vitality of TV and Cinema
 Fiction analysis research within this unit. In 2018, the actress Blythe Duff donated her entire
 personal archive, including all of the scripts from the TV police series Taggart for which she is
 most well-known, to Glasgow Caledonian University. This is housed in the Glasgow Caledonian
 University Archive Centre, which is a professionally run archive with five dedicated staff, opened
 in 2016, that also contains numerous other important collections (for example, photography and
 social and cultural history archives) and is open to the general public. The Blythe Duff Archive is
 a significant recent benefit-in-kind in relation to which research is planned for future publication
 in the next assessment period.

 The unit also engages in cross-HEI collaboration in terms of archival research facilities. One
 member (Cook) has collaborated extensively with the University of Gloucestershire and the
 Forest of Dean Community Interest Company in bringing the private manuscript and notebook
 collection of the television playwright and screenwriter, Dennis Potter, to the late writer’s native
 Forest of Dean, in the form of a permanent archive open to the public and academic
 researchers. It was Cook’s idea to do so as the papers were in danger of being split up and sold
 to US collections. As a leading academic expert on Potter’s work, Cook has served as principal
 academic advisor on the Heritage Lottery-funded initiative, continuing, over the current
 assessment period, to aid staff at the archive (the Dean Heritage Centre, Forest of Dean) in
 identifying and/or dating rare handwritten manuscript materials in the collection for the purposes
 of successful cataloguing.




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As the final paragraph of Section 3 evidences, the unit has had successful and effective
 research collaborations and partnerships, including joint research projects, with academic
 colleagues in other institutions, as well as with organisations outside academia.

 Aside from the Forest of Dean example, above, there have also been, in the current assessment
 period, collaboration with colleagues from the Centre for the Study of Media and Culture in Small
 Nations at the University of South Wales (USW), Cardiff and from Aarhus University, Denmark,
 on a successful Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Research Network application
 (2015) to fund a series of ‘TV & Small Nations’ research network workshops and meetings which
 were successfully held in various institutional locations in the UK and Europe in 2015-16. GCU
 was the sole Scottish University representative on the Research Network Management
 Committee which planned and organised the various AHRC-funded workshops and meetings
 alongside the Centre at USW (as funds-holder), Aarhus University and various industry and
 culture organisation stakeholders.

 Other successful international collaborations over the period have included with the Universidad
 Complutense in Madrid in relation to invited participation (O’Donnell) in an international project to
 translate Miguel de Cervantes’s El Quijote into 140 different languages/dialects. O’Donnell’s
 contribution was to translate Chapter 24 into the Scots language. This chapter is now part of the
 resulting book El Quijote Universal published by UCM. O’Donnell was also one of five members
 of an international collaboration project in 2016 with the University of Barcelona investigating
 cultural memories of football and dementia therapy. Successful outputs from this included the
 widely read co-written peer-reviewed journal article: “Developing evidence for football (soccer)
 reminiscence interventions within long-term care: a co-operative approach applied in Scotland
 and Spain”, The Journal of Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine, 18: 355-360, 2017.

 Other significant research-related collaborations over the period have been with Royal Holloway
 University, London on the study of television drama, for example on its AHRC-funded ‘Forgotten
 Television Drama’ project which ran until 2016. In recognition of the expertise within the unit on
 Scottish TV fiction, GCU was invited and participated as the Scottish University representative
 on the project’s transnational advisory board. Internationally, one member (McWhirter) was
 invited international guest to the Nordic Network on Cultural Journalism Research (NOS-HS)
 (University of Copenhagen) and ongoing connections here led to an invitation (2019) to co-edit a
 Nordicom Review special.

 As a leading expert in the economic and social value of Scots Gaelic, Chalmers is a member of
 the Board of Soillse, Scotland’s Gaelic research network. This is a collaborative network
 involving many of Scotland’s Universities which have an interest in Gaelic (other members
 include the Universities of Aberdeen, Edinburgh and Glasgow). It ‘represents the largest ever
 investment in Gaelic language related research and is a unique pooling of resources by the
 academic institutions that are involved’. Its role is to provide enhanced research capacity to
 inform public policy towards the maintenance and revitalisation of Scots Gaelic language and
 culture.

 In keeping with the University’s social mission, members within this unit are extremely active in
 being outward-facing and in engaging with a wide range of stakeholders and diverse
 communities and publics. There are many such activities not captured in the impact case
 studies, including regular research engagement with industry over the course of the entire
 assessment period. For example, since 2017, there has been ongoing networking and
 consultation with BAFTA and Albert.org around research into environmental sustainability in film
 and TV production. GCU is the only Scottish University representative in this partnership. Other
 research engagements with industry over the period have included partnership work with The
 Herald and Times Group and the British Council on the future of news journalism, together with
 work with IPSO (Independent Press Standards Organisation) on the future of press regulation
 (McConville); partnership with STV (Scottish Television) on researching and developing local

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 television (2014-17); with the Digital Production Partnership; the Public Relations and
 Communications Association and the British Interactive Media Association. Aside from BAFTA
 and Albert.org above, one member (Miller) has had extensive collaboration with BAFTA (British
 Academy of Film and Television Arts) including being invited onto the BAFTA Scotland Jury for
 TV Writing in 2017 to lend her research expertise and knowledge to this particular context.

 In terms of contributions to wider society, there have been regular interactions with the Scottish
 Parliament. McConville led a ‘Future of News’ research event at the Scottish Parliament in 2015
 while in 2017, Cook was invited, on the basis of his research expertise in TV fiction, to address
 the Cross-Party Culture Group of MSPs at the Scottish Parliament on ‘BBC Charter Renewal
 and Quality Drama Production’. In February 2020, Cook was also invited by the Scottish MSP
 Bill Kidd (Anniesland, Glasgow) to present his research on the nuclear attack film The War
 Game (1965) as part of a hosted event at the Scottish Parliament relating to the continuing
 urgency of the proliferation of nuclear weapons today.

 Throughout the assessment period, members of the research unit have successfully engaged a
 wider public in their research. Numerous members have contributed their research expertise to
 national or international media outlets. The impact case study on The War Game details the
 contribution of Cook’s research to a BBC Radio 4 Archive on 4 programme marking the 50th
 anniversary of The War Game. But other notable invitations included an appearance on BBC
 Radio 3’s Freethinking programme in 2014 to discuss the fiftieth anniversary of the Peter
 Watkins-directed film Culloden (1964) and work with the British Film Institute in 2016 in releasing
 both of these films, above, as a Blu-Ray double set, which was widely and favourably reviewed
 in the national (UK) press at the time of release.

 Tulle is regularly invited by the media to discuss issues related to her research around the
 culture of ageing, physical health and longevity. These have included, over the assessment
 period, invited contributions to The New York Post, Daily Mirror, Sky News Australia, BBC Radio
 and ABC Radio in Australia (Tasmania).

 Unit members have also engaged various different communities and publics through invited
 public lectures and seminars or other events disseminating their research. Harris has
 participated in numerous examples of sports, communities and events engagement work
 including public network events in Glasgow and London in 2015 (May, July and October)
 sponsored by the Carnegie Corporation of New York. In September 2019, he was invited to
 participate in several public seminars and lectures in Lebanon, hosted by the American
 University of Beirut. McConville gave an invited public lecture on his research on newspaper
 reporting in the US at an event hosted by the University of St. Andrews in January 2020, while
 Miller has also disseminated her research work at a public seminar organised by the Jung in
 Scotland non-profit organisation (February 2017).

 The unit is strongly interdisciplinary. As evidenced by the range of submitted outputs, the
 research work of many unit members frequently blends research in communication, media and
 culture with work in such diverse areas as sport, healthy living & ageing and analytical
 psychology. Exemplars of interdisciplinary activities include Tulle’s Presidency of the Sociology
 and Social Policy Section at the British Festival of Sciences in 2015, and her appointment in
 2020 as Executive Board Member (VP Communications) of the International Sociology of Sport
 Association (ISSA) for three years. Miller is an active member of both the International
 Association of Jungian Studies and the Jungian Society for Scholarly Studies.

 The unit is also responsive to national and international priorities and initiatives including the
 previously mentioned Scottish Parliamentary work relating to the continuing threat of nuclear
 weapons and the pioneering collaborative efforts with BAFTA and Albert.org to address the
 problem of climate change and environmental sustainability with regard to film and TV
 production. In 2019, Tulle formed part of a group of twenty-five of the top international scholars
 in her interdisciplinary field who put their names to the ‘Copenhagen Consensus Statement’.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This was a response to the urgent priority for evidence-based policy relating to physical activity
 and exercise with respect to the health of older adults.

 In terms of indicators of wider influence and contributions to the research base:

    •   Cook is a founding editorial board member of the Journal of British Cinema and
        Television as well as an editorial board member of the Journal of Screenwriting for which
        he guest co-edited a special issue on ‘Television Screenwriting’ (6,2) in 2015.
    •   Harris is Leisure and Events Subject Editor for the Journal of Hospitality, Leisure, Sport
        and Tourism Education (JoHLSTE) and a member of the editorial boards of the
        International Journal of Sport Communication and the Journal of Sport & Tourism. In
        2017 he guest co-edited a special issue of Sport in Society on major sporting events (20,
        3).
    •   Miller joined the editorial board of the International Journal of Jungian Studies (IJSS) in
        January 2020, having previously been book reviews and film reviews editor. She guest
        co-edited two special editions of the IJJS in 2017 (9,2) and 2018 (10,3).
    •   O’Donnell is a founding member of the Catalan Journal of Communication and Cultural
        Studies and is currently a member of its international advisory board as he is of Area
        Abierta, a joint publication venture of the Universitat Pompeu Fabra (Barcelona), the
        Universitat de València, the Universitat Jaume 1 (Castelló) and the Universitat de
        Barcelona. He was until December 2020 a member of the editorial board of the
        International Journal of Iberian Studies and is currently on the editorial boards of
        Comunicação Pública (published by the Escola Superior de Comunicação Social,
        Instituto Politécnico de Lisboa, Portugal) and El mensaje periodístico (published by the
        Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain).
    •   Tulle is a member of the editorial boards of Ageing & Society, Qualitative Research in
        Sport and Exercise and Health and was a former Associate Editor (in the current
        assessment period) on the boards of the Journal of Ageing and Physical Activity and the
        International Review of the Sociology of Sport. In 2018, she co-edited a special issue on
        ‘Physical Activity in Later Life’ of the journal Gérontologie et Société (40, 156).
    •   In 2016 and 2017, O’Donnell was an International Assessor for the Agenzia Nazionale
        per la Valutazione del Sistema Universitario e della Ricerca (the Italian equivalent of the
        REF) and is an ongoing assessor for the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland.
    •   Tulle was an assessor of Research Incentive Grants (Arts, Humanities and Social
        Sciences) for the Carnegie Trust between 2015 and 2017 and also Visiting Fellow to the
        Sports Research Lab at the Université Lyon 1 Claude-Bernard in 2015 and the School of
        Social Sciences at the University of Tasmania in 2018.
    •   In 2018 The Routledge International Handbook of Jungian Film Studies (Routledge,
        Oxon, 2018) won the prize for Best Edited Book from the International Association of
        Jungian Studies. Bassil-Morozow and Miller were both section editors and alongside
        another unit member (McWhirter), chapter contributors.

 Members have contributed numerous invited keynotes over the assessment period. Significant
 examples include Cook’s keynote address opening the ‘Becoming Scotland: Screen Cultures’
 international conference, Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh in August 2014 and in the same
 year (April) to the University of Stockholm’s Department of History international conference held
 to discuss and analyse Peter Watkins’ film representation of La Commune: Paris 1871 (2000).
 Jungian film scholars Bassil-Morozow and Miller have both provided addresses to important
 international conferences in their particular field: the International Persona Studies Conference
 (University of Newcastle, June 2019) and the Katabasis and Depth Psychology Conference
 (Freud Museum, London, July 2019), respectively. O’Donnell was invited keynote speaker at the
 ‘Catalan Independence Process in the International Press’ conference organised by the
 Communication Department of Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona (June 2017). Tulle was
 invited speaker as part of the School of Kinesiology Distinguished Speaker Series, University of
 British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada (May 2016).



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In terms of unit member contributions to formally recognised collaborative arrangements for
 PGR training, between 2017 and 2020 (three-year tenure), Tulle was Associate Director for
 Student Experience of the Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences (SGSSS). This is
 Scotland’s Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) provider and administrator of ESRC-funded
 studentships and postdoctoral fellowships for Scottish HEIs. Tulle was instrumental in the setting
 up of processes to facilitate applications for ESRC studentships and fellowships. She also
 supported GCU through the creation of an SGSSS Management Group, the role of which is to
 ensure effective interface and information dissemination between GCU and the SGSSS-DTP’s
 activities.

 In addition to unit members’ contributions above, their work across the various areas is
 supported by four (non-stipendiary) Visiting Professors appointed to the Department of Media
 and Journalism. These include distinguished individuals from industry who assist and advise on
 impact activities, including the former Controller of BBC TV Continuing Drama, Mal Young, and
 the Scottish Television journalist and news anchor, John McKay. Academic input is led by Prof.
 David Hutchison, Honorary Professor of Media Policy, who, since 2014, has co-edited two books
 which have included contributions from research unit members, has organised a major media
 policy conference for the Department (‘The Scottish Media Post-Referendum’, Jan 2015) as well
 as, over the same period, been invited, on account of his standing, to give evidence on matters
 of media policy to the Welsh Assembly and to Ofcom.




                                                                                           Page 13
