Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Manchester Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: C20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 This submission features outstanding policy-focused research addressing the ‘wicked’
 challenges facing society in the 21st century. Our unit aims to be a leader of research that works
 across boundaries within and beyond the University. Our work is characterised by participatory
 methodologies that situate our research at the forefront of hard-hitting problems, such as crime,
 drug abuse, poverty, exploitation, disability rights, domestic violence and mental health. Our
 research seeks to find solutions to global challenges across the Global North and South,
 including the ageing population, access to abortion and gender-based violence.

 We have invested in areas of excellence through high-quality new appointments and research
 infrastructure resulting in an increase in staff, outputs, awards, income and impact. The unit
 consists of 46.61 FTE staff: 12 Professors, three Readers (R), one Head of Department, two
 Principal Lecturers, 22 Senior Lecturers, two Research Fellows, one Practice Fellow and six
 Lecturers. We are returning over 220% more FTE than the 14.45 FTE in 2014. Research income
 has grown from £1.3 million in 2014 to £4 million in 2021.

 116 PGR students have enrolled since REF2014 with 40 conferments in this period. The
 strength of our PGR offer is recognised through membership of the ESRC White Rose Doctoral
 Training Partnership (WRDTP) with nine competitive PhD studentships in the assessment
 period. The results from the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) place us
 in the top quartile for the quality of, progression, research skills and supervision for Social
 Studies.

 Our Impact Case Studies (ICS) feature innovative research pathways to policy impact in:
 substance use and end-of-life care; innovations in offender rehabilitation; campaigns to change
 abortion legislation and interventions to tackle the novel psychoactive substances ‘epidemic’.

 Most staff are from the departments of Social Care and Social Work (SCSW) and Sociology but
 we also have staff from History, Politics, Philosophy, Psychology and Law. Research has
 benefited from significant investment into existing and new staff. The results of this have led to
 an increase in student satisfaction, which can be partly attributed to a learning and teaching
 environment that is ‘rich in high-quality research’ (Manchester Metropolitan RKE Strategy).
 SCSW has moved from 44th to 9th place in the 2020 Guardian University League Tables for
 Social Work. Research networks with local authorities and third sector organisations have
 created opportunities that led to the University being the first in England to launch the Social
 Work Apprenticeship programme.

 Our unit is aligned with two University Centres for Research and Knowledge Exchange (UCRKE)
 (see REF 5a): the Centre for Health, Psychology and Communities (HPaC) and the Research
 Centre for Applied Social Sciences (RCASS). All submitted staff are full research members of
 HPaC or RCASS.

 Health Psychology and Communities (HPaC)
 HPaC is housed within the Faculty of Health, Psychology and Social Care (HPSC). It includes
 research with a focus on social policy that has an impact on individuals and communities.
 Members of HPaC use their professional and practice networks to deliver applied research
 relating both to the Greater Manchester Health and Social Care Devolution Partnership, and
 internationally. HPaC is home to 110 researchers including psychologists, nurses and social
 workers with expertise in ageing, mental health, disabilities and marginalised communities
 globally. Relevant research from HPaC is also being submitted to A3 Allied Health.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Centre for Applied Social Sciences (RCASS)
 RCASS is one of four UCRKEs situated within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, one of the
 UK’s largest concentrations of Arts and Humanities scholars with 530 academic staff. The
 mission of RCASS is to produce outstanding research that ‘lives in the world’. RCASS aims to
 influence policy, inform public discourse and interact with local communities in ways that
 challenge assumptions about the world. Its contribution to this submission includes expertise in
 criminology, big data, programme evaluation, politics and substance use. Research from
 RCASS is also being submitted to C21 Sociology.

 HPaC and RCASS are distinguished by their pursuit of participatory research with communities
 and users of services. This commitment to collaborative and engaged methodologies runs right
 through the design, delivery and dissemination of our research, underpinning many of our most
 outstanding outputs and examples of wider impacts.

 Research is organised around four clusters:
 1. Global perspectives, marginalisation and thriving communities
 2. Social Aspects of Ageing
 3. Policy Evaluation and Research Unit
 4. Substance Use and Associated Behaviours

 Global perspectives, marginalisation and thriving communities (GPMTC)
 This cluster focuses on the ways in which health, life chances and wellbeing are affected by
 experiences across the life course, and the inequalities that can arise as a result. Work is
 aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and takes place across the UK
 and globally in countries including Brazil (Fisher and Lawthom), Columbia (Duffy), India (output
 references: 2109 and 2116) and Palestine (output 2092) . Research is funded by the ESRC
 (Chantler’s research on gender violence and domestic homicide (output 2107) and the
 Wellcome Trust (Duffy’s research on the Liverpool-Ireland Abortion Corridor in ICS 4).

 Social Aspects of Ageing (SAA)
 This cluster engages in interdisciplinary research exploring the social experiences of older adults
 within communities. The members have a reputation for engaged methodologies that situate the
 perspective of community partners at the centre of all aspects of the research. This approach
 leads to transformative impacts on policy and practice. Research often has an international
 dimension and is funded by the ESRC (Lawthom and Fisher’s PlaceAge project) and National
 Government (Ahmed’s research to understand how legislation has been implemented by
 organisations involved in supporting people at risk of homelessness). Campbell’s ESRC and
 NIHR-funded research explores how people affected by dementia experience their local
 neighbourhoods in England, Scotland and Sweden (output 2104). There is a focus on co-
 creation with experts by experience including people with complex histories and exposure to in-
 patient and community services. Parry’s collaboration with Voice Collective was shortlisted for a
 Times Higher research award (2018) for bringing parents and services together to understand
 voice hearing in young people (output 2121).

 The Policy Evaluation and Research Unit (PERU)
 PERU is a multi-disciplinary team of evaluators, economists, sociologists and criminologists that
 has grown significantly during the assessment period. Research contributes to effective policy-
 making and the effectiveness of social policy interventions in criminal justice, social innovation,
 welfare reform, child wellbeing and education. PERU works in areas where government has
 traditionally struggled to evidence outcomes, where social policy domains interact to create
 ‘wicked problems’ that pose significant policy challenges and where change is or has been
 implemented. PERU’s research is funded by the UK Government (Department for Education
 (DfE), Ministry of Housing and Local Government, Ministry of Justice); Education Endowment
 Foundation, Youth Endowment Fund, The Centre for Homelessness Impact and the European
 Commission. PERU incorporates research on crime and wellbeing big data, which has Cyber
 Security Approval by the UK Government, and data-sharing agreements with Greater
 Manchester Police (GMP) and West Midlands Police, Police Scotland and Ordnance Survey. Big

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 data research has benefited from a £1 million investment into a state-of-the-art advanced data
 science facility that has led to external funding through the establishment of an ‘Operational
 Analytics Partnership’ (£240k) with GMP and an ESRC large grant (£2.5m) to understand
 inequalities with the Universities of Edinburgh and Sheffield. Research on offender rehabilitation
 features in ICS 3.

 Substance Use and Associated Behaviours (SUAB)
 SUAB is a pioneering cross-institutional cluster that tackles emerging social problems about
 substance use and addictive behaviours. Developments in cryptomarkets, substance use in
 ‘end-of-life’ care and the expansion of new psychoactive substances (NPS) have led to
 knowledge gaps and challenges for policy and practice. Research is impactful and focused on
 changing drugs policy and practice at regional and national levels (ICS 1). Funding is provided
 by ESRC including Askew’s research on UK drug policy reform (outputs 2045 and 2050).
 Galvani has two projects funded by the National Lottery examining the nature and extent of
 substance problems in palliative and end-of-life care, and an NIHR funding project about a new
 model of care for people using substances at the end of life (ICS 2).

 Leadership and management of UCRKEs and research clusters
 Each UCRKE has a director and a leadership team, including an External Advisory Board made
 up of distinguished academic colleagues from outside the University. Each research cluster has
 a management team consisting of professoriate leads who are responsible for the contribution of
 cluster members to the achievement of objectives and strategy. This includes the development
 of a healthy, inclusive and sustainable research culture and environment, support for staff and
 PGR students, and engagement with wider institutional agendas.

 Collaboration and interdisciplinary research
 Collaboration across HPaC and RCASS is actively encouraged through networking events and
 mechanisms, such as MetroPolis (see Section 1.4). Examples of collaborative activity include
 DfE-funded research on young people transitioning from care, and work on substance use.

 Interdisciplinary work draws on psychology, sociology, geography, law, education and
 criminology. We focus on specific methodological challenges and inclusive, participatory
 approaches to substantive themes (criminal justice, substance abuse, abortion access, and
 welfare and ageing). We avoid a narrow disciplinary focus through prioritising research that
 addresses large contemporary policy questions. Waughray’s work draws on legal frameworks
 to influence policy on law and equalities (output: 2060). Hammond’s work draws on the
 sociology of personal life (outputs: 2096 and 2115).

 SUAB provides a good example of how we support interdisciplinary activity. SUAB was initially
 established by a small group of researchers who could see that we had strength in substance
 use across a number of departments. They were able to access institutional funding that was set
 up for cross-disciplinary networks and drew in more staff from across the University, including
 colleagues from the Department of Natural Sciences with expertise in psychopharmaceutical
 chemistry. This alignment of interdisciplinary people and resources helped us to develop a
 cohesive ‘offer’ to external partners, such as Manchester City Council and NHS Trusts that were
 looking for expertise to support challenges associated with addictive behaviours. SUAB has now
 grown into a recognised research cluster and has unlocked further investment for new staff,
 including the external appointment of a new professor, McVeigh. The interdisciplinary success
 of this approach is evidenced by the fact that SUAB’s research on tackling novel psychoactive
 substances is featuring in a case study that is being returned to A3 Allied Health, as well as a
 case study in this submission.

 1.1 Review of REF 2014 plans and achievement of strategic goals
 In REF 2014, our forward plans were to increase the volume of researchers (from n=16 to n=24),
 to develop applied research in disability studies, criminal justice and professional practice, and to
 generate an increase in income and publication quality. We have significantly exceeded these
 target: our 2021 return includes 48 staff (46.61 FTE). Growth has come from new appointments

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (particularly in criminal justice and policy evaluation) alongside excellent staff mentoring and
 development. 24 staff are new appointments and 13 were in post in 2014 but not entered.
 Research income has grown from £1.3m in 2014 to £4m in 2021, and we have dramatically
 increased the volume of our outputs as staff have produced 833 outputs (418 articles, 259
 reports and 33 books) compared with 210 outputs in REF 2014.

 1.2 Research and Impact strategy
 Our aim is to produce engaged research of the highest quality that has a benefit to practitioners,
 community partners and policy-makers. Our ambition is to be recognised for policy-relevant,
 impactful research and knowledge exchange. The intellectual approach that underpins our
 strategy is a focus on the pursuit of research as a sustainable social intervention. Our work is
 both agenda-setting and responsive, influencing policy and practice at a regional, national and
 global level. The Greater Manchester devolution agenda provides a ready mechanism for the
 rapid translation of our research into practice and we aim to be inclusive and participative in our
 research culture, and in the way in which we engage with external partners.

 Throughout the assessment period we have focused on delivering research that contributes to a
 more equal and progressive society. We seek to have an influence on policy and practice, and
 aim to improve outcomes for people who use services, their families, communities and
 practitioners. We explore methodological innovations and apply the use of qualitative and
 quantitative methods to deliver creative solutions for real world problems.

 The plan to achieve our objectives has been to invest in new appointments that fit our ethos and
 can add value to our existing quality; to develop an inclusive research culture that provides clear
 progression and reward mechanisms; to continue to develop the infrastructure that is required to
 achieve our ambitions and to be innovative in our pursuit of external income and the delivery of
 impact.

 We have invested in talented new staff (24 FTE in total including eight Professors and Readers)
 and in the development of our clusters, with further expansion of social care (learning
 disabilities) research underway.

 Staff have benefited from a progressive and inclusive research environment that prioritises their
 professional development in ways that align to the principles of the Concordat for the Career
 Development of Researchers. We have mentoring schemes, clear pathways for promotion and
 training, opportunities to learn from each other, access to internal investment and many other
 support structures (see Section 2 for detail). We continue to make an important contribution to
 the strategic priorities of the social work and social policy disciplines, and staff have been
 recognised for their efforts, including an MBE for Gregory in 2019 (for services to exports).

 We have created ‘networks of opportunity’ to deliver high-quality research that generates policy
 impact. Relationships exist with commissioning bodies responsible for formulating policy,
 including the DfE, NIHR and the European Commission, and we have formed close alliances
 with agencies who are responsible for the practical delivery of public services, such as NHS
 Trusts, charities, private providers, and the network of government/ESRC, and Big Lottery-
 funded What Works Centres. PERU has partnership agreements with police forces, including
 Police Scotland and Greater Manchester Police. We have strong relationships with community
 organisations and the groups that represent them.

 We have also established the University’s research-led think tank, MetroPolis, during the
 assessment period. MetroPolis was set up to amplify the University’s policy-relevant work whilst
 building internal capacity for engagement with policy-makers. Its co-founder is Fox who also
 acts as its academic lead.

 1.3 Our Future Research Plans
 We will continue to carry out research that meets the needs of policy-makers and communities,
 and delivers wider impacts. We do not anticipate that we will grow (in terms of staff) at the same

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 rate as we have during this assessment period so we will look to coalesce in areas of strength
 where we have made new appointments. Research on domestic violence, disability (Hatton
 joined us from Lancaster after the census date and Ryan will join from Oxford in May 2021),
 substance use, criminology, homelessness and policy evaluation are strategic priorities,
 particularly in the wake of Covid-19, whose social and economic after-effects will bring the
 outcomes of our research into society’s most marginalised populations into even starker focus.

 We will continue to grow external research and knowledge exchange income from diverse
 funders, including growing our portfolio of ESRC and NIHR research. We have already secured
 some significant new grants in these areas (e.g. £340k Covid-19: Safeguarding Victims of
 Domestic Abuse project – see Section 3).

 Driven by our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) strategy, our recruitment strategy will
 continue to support research innovation and leadership across all career levels. We will ensure
 that we use our career development programmes and annual review processes effectively to
 increase diversity further amongst staff in relation to protected characteristics. Our ambition is to
 be one of the most engaged and inclusive research environments in the UK and we will place an
 even greater emphasis on embedding principles of EDI into our culture for both staff and PGRs.
 This will include our approach to working with community partners, where we will seek to lead
 the sector in methodological innovation around forms of ethical co-creation and two-way
 engagement. We will expand our leading contribution to the MetroPolis initiative to develop even
 greater capacity for policy-related impacts. We will seek out new international partners for a
 reciprocal process of sharing our collective research in some of our UK-related policy impacts for
 the benefit of global communities. We will make our research and its underpinning data as
 accessible and useful to the broadest set of stakeholders as possible.

 We will review and develop existing areas of strength (e.g. ageing, substance use, abortion, and
 contribution to policy-making). We will review our research clusters to support emerging areas of
 strength (e.g. disabilities, mental health, social work education, and care experience).

 1.4 Enabling Impact
 We have invested in the infrastructure that is required to ensure that all staff and PGR students
 feel equipped to pursue appropriate ‘pathways to impact’ with policy-makers, practitioners and
 communities.

 Investment into staff that understand the impact agenda
 New appointments are targeted from outside, as well as inside, academia. We have appointed
 practitioners with an outstanding policy background. For example, Kumar has 20 years’
 professional experience as Chief Economist at the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (JRF),
 economic advisor to Gordon Brown, and Senior Economic Advisor to the Department of Work
 and Pensions. O’Leary has fifteen years’ experience of delivering major projects to central
 government departments, and is a former Chair of Housing in an inner London borough, and
 non-executive director of a regeneration company.

 New staff from more traditional academic routes have been recruited, based on our policy
 impact agenda. This includes Chantler with experience of ESRC-funded projects in gender-
 based violence and government-funded domestic homicide. Ahmed has fifteen years’
 experience of researching marginalised communities. These new appointments have created an
 impact pipeline for the next REF.

 New non-academic appointments include two Impact and Engagement Managers (IEM) who are
 experienced in social science research and public engagement.

 MetroPolis
 Fox and O’Leary led the establishment and ongoing operation of MetroPolis, the University’s
 research-led think tank (see REF 5a). MetroPolis was formed to amplify the policy-relevant
 research that takes place within Manchester Metropolitan University whilst building the skills,

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capacity and confidence of staff who want to engage more effectively with policy-makers.
 MetroPolis produces a magazine that is widely distributed and hosts events with policy-makers
 (e.g. Liz Kendall, Liz Truss, Angela Rayner and Andy Burnham) on provocative policy-making
 topics that align to the research expertise of our C20 submission.

 One of the key mechanisms that MetroPolis has for enabling impact is the Chancellor’s
 Fellowship scheme, which provides time and resources (up to £9k) for academics to be
 ‘embedded’ in organisations that use research to develop policy. Fellows have worked within
 Government departments (e.g. the Ministry for Housing Communities and Local Government),
 with think tanks, such as IPPR (The Institute for Public Policy Research) North, with international
 Government (e.g. the UN, and the Indian State Government) and with Local Government, NGOs
 and the third-sector (e.g. Volteface, and the Greater Manchester Combined Authority).

 MetroPolis has made a valuable contribution to our impact. Funding, support for the organisation
 of key policy events, and a Chancellor’s Fellowship with Volteface made a significant
 contribution to the generation of policy impact in the novel psychoactive substances case study
 (impact case study 1) led by Ralphs. A Chancellor’s Fellowship with Mersey Care NHS
 Foundation Trust, along with funding for the production of influential reports, have extended the
 reach and significance of Galvani’s impact case study (impact case study 2).

 Partnerships for impact
 Our strategy includes the creation of ‘networks of opportunity’ that generate policy impacts. The
 PERU impact case study illustrates this approach as changes in offender rehabilitation resulted
 from a long-term partnership with Interserve/Purple Futures. We take a strategic approach to the
 development of these partnerships and often generate collaborative activities through knowledge
 exchange income, such as consultancy and evaluations.

 Use of funding to support impact
 Our IEMs work closely with staff to ensure that impact is ‘baked into’ external funding proposals
 and we are adept at using internal funds to extend strategic areas of opportunity. For example,
 Duffy’s impact on women’s rights and access to safe abortion services used Global Challenges
 Research Funding (GCRF) to enable partnerships to be formed with activist groups in Colombia
 (see impact case study 4). This helped to build an evidence base for the impact of the research,
 which led to a successful ‘policy implementation’ grant awarded by the World Health
 Organisation (WHO).

 1.5 Open Access
 Our Open Access policy is fully aligned to REF requirements and we have systems and funding
 to support both green and gold open access routes (see REF 5a).

 We have a growing RCUK / UKRI resource to facilitate APC payments, and access to
 institutional funding to apply for APCs for research of demonstrable quality, or that underpins
 important wider impacts. We have used over £20k to pay for important papers in Addiction,
 Women’s Studies International Forum, International Journal of Drug Policy and British Journal of
 Criminology. For example, Duffy’s paper (output: 2077) on abortion, emotions and health
 provision underpins her impact case study and Ralphs’ paper on ‘spice’ in prisons (output:
 2044) is included in the case study on novel psychoactive substances.

 All our articles are deposited in ‘e-space’, the institutional repository. Papers with the most
 downloads include Galvani’s work on social work and substance use (983 downloads), (output:
 2019); Askew’s work on the legitimising of adult recreational drug use (545 downloads) (output:
 2033); and Ralph’s work on the service provider challenges of new psychoactive substances
 (445 downloads) (output: 2105).

 We actively ‘tweet’ and ‘blog’ content related to our work. Regular submissions for the
 Conversation and MetroPolis engage audiences in practitioner relevant work. The twitter feeds


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for @PERU, @SUAB @SWManMet and @HPSCResearch provide contemporary commentary
 and research.

 1.6 Research data
 We are compliant with the Concordat on Open Research data. We have research data
 management plans in accordance with funder requirements, and regular training sessions are
 provided by the Library to ensure that staff and PGRs understand their responsibilities.

 We have access to a £500k research data storage platform that provides the highest quality
 provision, and staff can share their data quickly and easily using the University’s ‘e-space’
 repository. The nature of our work is often sensitive, and researchers are attuned to navigating
 the governance requirements around this. For example, Chantler’s ESRC-funded Domestic
 Homicide Review project is building a publicly-accessible repository to create a rich source of
 homicide data.

 1.7 Research integrity
 The nature of our research with marginalised human participants demands that we take our
 commitment to the Concordat for Research Integrity very seriously: for example, Hammond’s
 research on women who pay for sex (output: 2115) and Chantler’s research into domestic
 violence (outputs: 2108 and 2109). We undertake research within strict ethical guidelines, and
 staff within our submission also operate within professional frameworks (e.g. Social Work
 England and Health and Care Professionals Council).

 Our unit has two Heads of Ethics and Governance, Baines and Chantler, who provide
 leadership, training and specialist guidance to staff whilst representing our interests at the
 University’s central Research Ethics and Governance Committee. They work alongside an
 administrative team and two Research Ethics and Governance Managers who provide access to
 EthOS, an online system that manages a full electronic workflow for ethics. 23 staff from within
 the unit are members of our ethics reviewer college and devote time to reviewing applications
 from staff, PGR and undergraduate students.

 Baines and Chantler carry out an annual audit of our activities and feed the results into the
 University’s statement for compliance with the Concordat for Research Integrity.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 We are proud of our collegial and collaborative working environment, and the support that this
 offers for all of our staff to realise our collective research ambitions. We have implemented the
 principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Our staff have
 contributed to the University’s action plans that have underpinned the award for EU HR
 Excellence in Research for the past eight years. Ralphs’ progression was used as a case study
 in the documentation for our four-year review where he described the portfolio of staff
 development opportunities that have helped him to develop his career.

 2.1 Staff development strategy
 We focus on the development, recognition and retention of our staff, and we have a pipeline of
 successful researchers who attract prestigious grants and produce high-quality outputs. We
 have a well-established approach to mentoring, access to internal funding, training and
 development, and clear pathways for annual reviews, progression and promotion.

 Workload, annual reviews and probation
 All staff have a minimum 20% workload allocation for research. Research workload allocations
 are linked to career status or progression and achievement of performance objectives, set out in
 individual five-year plans and reviewed annually through a Performance Development Review
 (PDR) process.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff are assigned a research mentor specifically trained to provide support on writing for
 publication and/or external bidding activities through one-to-one meetings. The mentors link the
 personal objectives of individual staff members to development opportunities and the wider
 goals of the UCRKE and academic department.

 Annual PDRs include a detailed discussion with line managers around in-year achievements,
 objectives for the year ahead and longer-term career development aspirations. An assessment
 of whether RKE objectives have been met takes place, as well as conversations about any
 specific types of support or adjustments that might be required to carry out research productively
 (important for staff’s individual circumstances).

 New starters participate in an academic probation scheme that lasts for twelve months. During
 this time there is intensive support in terms of induction to the wider University and UCRKEs.
 Research and academic citizenship objectives are agreed at the same time as a mentor is
 assigned. Objectives are reviewed every six months and employment is confirmed at the end of
 the first year. We have a 100% record of successful probation.

 Promotion and reward
 Promotion from Lecturer through to Professor is delivered through two Academic Career
 Pathways (see REF 5a). Colleagues at the top of their salary can apply for additional increments
 to reward excellent research or impact activities (the creation of impact features prominently in
 promotional pathways and reward mechanisms). Professors have their pay reviewed annually as
 part of a ‘Professorial Contribution Process’ introduced as part of our overall talent management
 strategy.

 During the assessment period, one member of staff was promoted to Professor (Runswick-Cole
 (1b); one to Head of Department (Fisher); there were four promotions to Reader (Duffy,
 Ralphs, Waughray and Wong) and six staff promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer.

 Training and development
 All staff access a wide range of development opportunities, including workshops on how to be an
 ‘engaged’ academic, methodological approaches, writing (for publication and for external grant
 applications), impact, engaging with policy-makers, etc. We have RKE workshops, a programme
 of seminars, networking events and dissemination opportunities. Our staff are widely engaged in
 these, sharing their expertise. We provide writing retreats to support the production of specific
 outputs or external funding applications.

 Staff access training opportunities at an institutional level (see REF 5a), including RKE Future
 Leaders (RKEFL) and Good to Great. Fisher, Ralphs and Waughray were RKEFLs with
 subsequent successful career progression. Fisher used the reflective practice sessions as part
 of RKEFL to ensure that she could retain a focus on research whilst being promoted to Head of
 the Department for Social Care and Social Work. Ralphs and Waughray were both promoted
 to Readerships following RKEFL.

 2.2 Effectiveness of recruitment
 We have appointed 24 FTE staff (six professors, one reader, one practice fellow, six senior
 lecturers and seven lecturers). This means we have appointed almost twice as many new staff
 as were returned in the entire REF 2014 submission. We have focused particularly on attracting
 senior professionals with strong links to both policy and practice, helping us to build greater
 capacity for policy impact. Notable professorial appointments include: Kumar and Morris
 (PERU), Galvani and McVeigh (SUAB), Chantler (GPMTC) and Ahmed (SAA). Kumar and
 Morris brought a detailed understanding of research and its relationships with policy and
 practice. Kumar held senior positions at JRF and in Her Majesty’s Treasury with Gordon Brown
 (see 1.4). Morris was previously Head of Evaluation at Natcen Social Research and Principal
 Research Fellow at the Policy Studies Institute. Galvani is a registered social worker who joined
 us from the University of Bedford after six years leading the Tilda Goldberg Centre for Social
 Work and Social Care. Galvani is also a founder of the BASW Special Interest Group in Alcohol

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Other Drugs. McVeigh was Director of the Public Health Institute at Liverpool John Moore’s
 University and has previously contributed to UK national drugs strategies and NICE guidelines.
 Chantler has over 25 years’ experience of working in the UK statutory and voluntary sector
 before taking up her previous role at UCLan. Ahmed brings a wealth of housing and ageing
 expertise for marginalised communities around social policy.

 We have continued to make impressive professorial appointments beyond the census date, such
 as Hatton (previously Lancaster University) and Ryan (University of Oxford) who will continue
 our track-record of producing highly impactful work in disability policy and social justice.

 Our strategy of appointing staff with high levels of policy-related experience is not limited to
 Professoriate recruitment. New staff including O’Leary, Kinsella and Campbell have joined our
 team from a professional and practice-based policy background.

 We support staff at every stage of their academic career, as reflected in our staffing contract
 profile (Table 1)

  Professor                 Principal Lecturer      Senior Lecturer          Lecturer, Research
                            and Reader                                       Fellow
  25%                       13%                     45%                      17%

 Staff contract level profile (Table 1)

 All staff included in the submission are on permanent contracts.

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) and postdocs
 12% of our submission are ECRs. All new starters have a reduced workload, with a 25% uplift in
 preparation time for teaching in their first year at the University. We adjust expectations around
 the production of research outputs and research income to ensure that ECRs feel supported as
 they establish a publication profile. ECRs are encouraged to work closely with their mentor and
 other senior research staff as part of their induction into our UCRKEs to gain awareness of what
 we have available and experience the process for applying for external funding.

 We organise staff development and training opportunities where ECRs are encouraged to take a
 leading role, e.g. by organising and presenting at internal seminars, undertaking PGR
 supervision, joining ethics committees and editing departmental newsletters. The contribution of
 ECRs helps to build our capacity across the research environment; for example, in SCSW, there
 has been a 300% increase in the number of staff involved in PGR supervision from October
 2018 to March 2021, including four ECRs.

 There is a variety of internal funding schemes available to support the career development of our
 staff (see REF 5a), including funding to attend conferences, Research Accelerator Grants and
 the Researcher Development scheme that is used to generate preliminary data for early-stage
 ideas. GCRF funds are used to develop impact-related partnerships; for example Goswami was
 able to set up a policy-related visit around his research into childhood and youth with colleagues
 in Bangladesh using GCRF funding.

 Sabbaticals and staff exchanges
 Our staff can access sabbaticals for up to three months to focus on the production of significant
 outputs, to concentrate on large external funding applications, to develop impact, or to further an
 international collaboration. Sabbaticals are offered on a competitive basis accompanied with
 funding of £8,500, which can be used for teaching relief or for the appointment of a Research
 Assistant. Our Sabbatical Scheme is open to all staff (including fixed-term and part-time staff).
 Four staff have been granted sabbaticals; for example, Ralphs used a sabbatical to take up a
 Visiting Research Fellowship at the University of Victoria in Wellington, New Zealand. He used
 this time to share research on the development of ‘spice’ in prisons and to develop new
 international partnerships (ICS 1). Fox used a sabbatical to complete a major piece of work

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 examining the state of social impact bonds in the US and the UK in partnership with the
 University of Southern California, which led to an authored book (output 2062).

 Staff can access funding from MetroPolis to undertake Chancellor’s Fellowships, which provide
 funding to enable staff to spend time with policy-relevant organisations. Galvani, Fox, Ralphs
 and Lawthom have all been able to use Chancellor’s Fellowships to build deeper relationships
 with partners, including NHS Trusts, IPPR North, campaign groups and national think tanks.
 Learning from these fellowships has been shared with the rest of the staff in our submission
 through the production of a handbook and the delivery of associated training on policy impact.

 2.3 PGR students
 PGRs make a vital contribution to our research culture and we make every effort to ensure that
 they feel integrated into, and supported by, our wider research environment. Since 2014, our
 PGR community has consisted of 116 students from a diverse range of backgrounds and
 countries. We have benefited enormously from our membership of the ESRC WRDTP (The
 White Rose Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership) and increased overall levels of
 conferment by 54% (from 26 in REF 2014 to 40 in REF 2021). Lawthom (and more recently
 Ahmed) is the Wellbeing, Health and Communities Pathway lead for WRDTP.

 We have collaborated with Universities in Canada, Iceland, Italy and Malta for joint PGR
 supervision. The results of the latest PRES (2019) place us in the top quartile benchmarked
 against all providers for the quality of supervision, progression and research skills in relevant
 subject disciplines. We were ranked 3rd out of 40 universities in the Social Sciences cluster (the
 closest match for this submission) for supervision quality, gaining particularly good marks (above
 the average for the top quartile) for supervisor skills and knowledge, and the supervisor’s role in
 identifying training needs.

 Recruitment of doctoral research students
 At the time of the REF 2021 submission, our PGR students are recruited from 15 countries from
 all over the world (Italy, Iran, Greece, Hong Kong, and Zimbabwe) though the majority (83%) are
 from the United Kingdom. 93% are Home / EU students. Around 50% of our PGRs are part-time,
 reflecting disciplinary norms and the fact that many of them wish to remain in practice (e.g.
 social work or housing).

 A relatively high proportion of our PGRs have declared a disability (17%), which underlines our
 commitment to support disabled staff and students. This is evidenced by the fact that we were
 the first UK university to be awarded ‘Gold’ status in the Business Disability Forum’s Disability
 Standard scheme (one of only five organisations to receive the highest rating). This also reflects
 our commitment to research into the social justice-related aspects of disability.

 61% of students are female and we have a greater number of male PGRs than might be
 expected according to national workforce statistics. 72% of PGRs identify as white; and 16% as
 BAME (4% as black; 3% as Chinese and 9% as Asian). 9% identify as mixed / other with 3% as
 unknown or information refused. Our students’ ages range from 24 to 77.

 Studentships from major funding bodies
 We have recruited nine studentships from the ESRC-funded WRDTP Wellbeing and
 Communities pathway, including a collaborative partnership with Pennine Care NHS Foundation
 Trust. We have also developed an ESRC-recognised Masters in Social Research for 3+1
 studentships, which feeds applications to the WRDTP and provides a doctoral pipeline. We were
 lead members of the University Alliance Social Policy DTA (Doctoral Training Alliance) until 2018
 and recruited two students through this European Commission-funded scheme.

 We have funded five PGRs using institutional investment through a Vice-Chancellor’s
 Scholarship (VCS) scheme. This has enabled us to support strategic research agendas, such as
 our commitment to the Greater Manchester homelessness charter in which Lawthom
 supervised a co-produced investigation into the translation of the charter into action.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Monitoring and support linked to successful completions
 All PGRs have a minimum of two academic supervisors including a Principal Supervisor (PS).
 They support the academic development of the student’s research and provide guidance on
 professional development opportunities (e.g. conferences, publishing and careers).100 hours of
 annual supervision is divided between the supervisory team (regular supervision, setting
 deadlines, overseeing ethical approval and giving detailed feedback on thesis drafts).

 All PGR supervisors must undertake either the Graduate School PGR supervisory programme or
 the University Teaching Academy 15-credit module on Research Degree Supervision and
 Examination. Staff without previous experience, or new to the University, are strongly
 encouraged to attend appropriate supervisory training and receive mentoring within an existing
 team. All staff must complete a training update every three years

 All full-time (FT) PGRs are expected to submit within four years (pro-rata for part-time (PT)
 students). The online SkillsForge system supports student progress and development (see
 REF5a). SkillsForge generates automatic reminders about official milestones, and records
 training and actions from supervisory meetings. An Initial Project Review takes place after three
 months (for FT study) and two formal annual progression reviews after 12/24 months FT.
 Independent academics scrutinise annual progress reports and conduct an informal viva voce, in
 which any issues can be raised. In the 2019 Post-graduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES) we were in the top quartile and 4th overall for progression with specific strengths in the
 quality of induction, the understanding of requirements and deadlines, and clarity over
 assessment processes.

 PGR skills development and preparation for future career
 All full-time PGRs are expected to complete at least the equivalent of two weeks (or ten working
 days) of development activities each year (pro rata for part-time), in line with the Concordat to
 Support Researcher Development. Training is delivered across six themes and PGRs are
 supported to attend conferences and writing retreats, and to access the Graduate School’s
 Research Fund (see REF 5a).

 In PRES (2019), we were in the top quartile, and 8th out of 40 overall for the quality of research
 skills with particular praise for providing students with the confidence to develop their creativity
 and innovation skills. We were also in the top quartile for the quality of professional
 development. Lawthom and Fisher have won the Students’ Union Best PGR Supervisor of the
 Year (2018 and 2019 respectively).

 We place a particular emphasis on preparing students for a potential career beyond academia.
 For example, PGRs have gone on to further employment in public policy settings, and one
 student has successfully gained an internship with the Department of Work and Pensions.

 Study Leave Arrangements
 The University’s policy on Maternity, Paternity and Adoption leave for funded PGR students is in
 line with UKRI-funded students, and the student is entitled to up to 52 weeks of maternity,
 adoption or shared parental leave, with the first 26 weeks of each pregnancy paid at full stipend
 rate. The following 13 weeks are paid at a level commensurate with employee entitlements to
 statutory maternity pay, and partners are entitled to ten days ordinary paternity leave on full
 stipend.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 The University’s commitment to EDI is set out in its Equality and Diversity policy and
 accompanying Vision for Equality and Diversity (see REF 5a). Staff within this submission have
 played a leading role in the University’s equality fora around disability (Lawthom), LGBTQ + and
 race (Cox, Carey), which make a vital contribution to the University’s achievement of the
 institutional quality marks and standards (see REF 5a). Fisher leads the HPSC EDI strategy.
 We have worked hard to create an inclusive research culture. The success of our approach to

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 flexible working procedures and the leadership of staff have allowed us to present a submission
 that is more inclusive and representative of a range of career stages than the sector-wide figures
 reported for the discipline.

 Arrangements for supporting flexible working
 Our flexible working processes facilitate temporary part-time working, compressed hours, job-
 sharing, home-working and career breaks, all of which are acknowledged in the promotions
 process. Timetabling arrangements support colleagues with caring responsibilities. Disclosure of
 an equality-related issue (usually through a confidential process tied to annual UCRKE reviews)
 leads to an adjustment in expectations regarding research outputs. Similar adjustments are
 made for colleagues with caring responsibilities, chronic disabilities (including mental health
 issues), and return to work after sickness or family-related absence. For example, one member
 of our submission has been supported to be able to extend and subsequently deliver a
 prestigious overseas external funding opportunity following family-related absence. The impact
 of Covid-19 on staff working at home, particularly with caring or child-care responsibilities, is
 currently being fully considered in the promotions round, and a Covid Recovery Scheme is being
 rolled out to support staff whose research has been interrupted.

 Equality and diversity profile of the submission
 Gender
 Our submission includes 55% women and 45% men from a 60%/40% eligible population. This
 means that our return is more balanced than the overall sector average, which is 65% female
 and 35% male. We have a gender-balanced professoriate with women occupying most of the
 senior leadership roles (Lawthom was Director of the HPaC UCRKE until 2019, and Baines and
 Chantler are Heads of Research Ethics and Governance). Ahmed is now Faculty HPSC PGR
 lead.

 We provide access to specific training and development opportunities targeted towards women
 (e.g. Advance HE’s Aurora mentoring scheme). We have senior colleagues who proactively
 support the development of equality and diversity in the discipline; for example, Lawthom was
 Chair of the Psychology of Women Section of the British Psychological Society (BPS) (2012 –
 2015) and has mentored six staff on the Aurora programme during the assessment period,
 including Fisher and Yarwood. Gregory is a co-lead of the University’s Gender forum and is
 leading on the next phase of the institution’s submission for Athena SWAN.

 Disability
 6% of staff in the submission have declared a disability against an overall eligible population of
 4%. This is in line with sector-wide data (7.1% of staff have reported a disability in the Social
 Work Social Policy discipline as reported in the Advance HE Equality Report for 2019), which
 underlines the effectiveness of our institutional support for supporting disabled staff (see REF
 5a).

 Ethnicity
 Our submission is more ethnically-diverse than the eligible population, and much more diverse
 than the average for the sector. 79% of submitted staff identify as white within an overall eligible
 population of 81%. Our submission is 10% more diverse than the sector average of 90% for staff
 identifying as white in Social Work and Social Policy disciplines (Source: Advance HE 2019
 Equality report). 19% of staff identify as BAME (9% as Asian; 4% as Chinese and 6% as Mixed /
 Other). 2% are ‘Unknown’.

 Our submission includes two female professors who identify as BAME out of an overall national
 total of 440 female BAME professors.

 ECRS and staffing mode.
 12% of our submission are ECRs according to the REF2021 criteria. All staff are on permanent
 contracts and we have two staff working part-time, including one Professor. Career pathways for


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 part-time and full-time staff are equitable, with all staff in the unit receiving equal access to
 support, mentoring, funding, sabbatical- and career development-opportunities.

 Equality and Diversity in the REF submission
 We have been fair, transparent and inclusive in formulating our submission, complying fully with
 the University’s Code of Practice to ensure that EDI is reflected in the return. We have monitored
 the gender balance of the selection of outputs and can report that 54% of the final selection
 included in the submission are assigned to female staff. This is in line with the overall gender
 balance and the volume of outputs that staff have produced during the assessment period.

 All colleagues with significant responsibility for research and independent researcher status are
 included. Staff preparing the submission completed training on ‘Managing Diversity’, ‘Equality
 and Diversity Essentials’ and ‘Unconscious Bias and REF2021’. The Social Work and Social
 Policy REF2021 Coordination Group, and the team who prepared this environment narrative,
 had equal gender representation with overall leadership coming from Lawthom and, latterly,
 Fisher.

 All colleagues were aware of the confidential process for declaring individual circumstances.
 Five staff chose to submit details of individual circumstances and we have been able to balance
 our expectations of their contribution to the outputs without requesting a reduction in the overall
 output pool.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Strategic investment in staff, full deployment of QR resource and comprehensive support for
 funding proposals have resulted in external research income of £4.047m. This is a 211%
 increase on the £1.3m income we returned in REF 2014, with a large increase from charitable
 bodies (from £71k to £872k) and UK government sources (from £419k to £1.8m), reflecting the
 success of our mission to respond to some of the most difficult policy challenges facing society.

 Diversity of Income Sources

  Source of          BEIS               UK Charities,   UK Govt,       European          Non-EU
  Income             Research           Open            Industry &     Union
                     Councils           Competition &   other UK
                                        Other           Sources
  Percentage         19%                22%             44%            14%               1%
  of Income
 Table 2: Diversity of Income Sources


 Strategy for external research income generation:
 We have refined our strategy for external funding and our income has risen steadily from £284k
 in 2013/14 to £750k in 2019/20. We have achieved this by focusing resources towards the
 development of more substantial proposals with high-quality academic and non-academic
 partners. We are selective about where and when we choose to make applications, by allocating
 time and resources into building large networks of external partners with NGOs, charities and
 civil society groups who are equally passionate about our research agendas, e.g. end-of-life
 care, drug addiction, homelessness, ageing well and domestic violence. We have focused on
 being awarded ‘bidding partner’ status through strategic funders, such as the Education
 Endowment Fund, to ensure that we can take advantage of opportunities that match our
 experience in policy evaluation. We have sought to appoint staff who understand our collective
 ethos and who have a background in policy settings. This has positively impacted on our ability
 to develop credible partnerships that put us in a strong position for the generation of external
 funding.

 The use of internal investment from the University’s Strategic Opportunities Fund has enabled
 us to boost clusters of activity, such as Crime & Well-being Big Data within PERU. This research

                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 area received £1 million investment into staff and infrastructure, including a secure and
 intelligent data system architecture capable of hosting sensitive and proprietary data, which has
 given us the capacity to get involved in quantitative proposals with universities including
 Edinburgh (see below) and public sector partners (NHS Scotland, GMP).

 We have a strong relationship with our Research Development Team and our Business
 Development Managers working together on our long-term funding strategy. We also work with
 an International Research Development Manager and an experienced Research Delivery team.
 These relationships are key to our success by providing us with high levels of expert knowledge
 and support.

 Major competitive awards
 We have secured £4.8m in research awards and a further £2.3m in knowledge exchange
 awards. Major awards include:

 End-of-life care for people with problematic substance use – Big Lottery £425k (2016)
 This project was the first of its kind to explore current practice and service experience from a
 range of perspectives. Inspired by practitioners’ concerns about improving the end-of-life care
 offered to people with problematic substance use, and their families, friends and carers, Galvani
 used the findings from this project to create standards and resources that are widely used (see
 ICS2). The learning from this project led to a subsequent £287,258 award from NIHR
 (NIHR200054) in 2019 to explore what a new co-produced model of social end-of-life care
 should look like for people who are impacted by problematic substance use.

 Understanding Inequalities – ESRC (ES/P009301/1) £2,076,267 (£301,259 to Manchester
 Metropolitan) (2017)
 Bannister was a co-investigator on this large collaborative project with Professor Susan McVie
 from the University of Edinburgh, which investigated the causes and consequences of social
 inequality in Scottish society in a more in-depth way than had been attempted previously.
 Bannister’s contribution to the project resulted in high-quality publications, such as, ‘Towards a
 Planetary Urban Criminology’ in Criminological Encounters (output ref: 2120).

 Co-creation of Service Innovation in Europe (CoSIE) – European Commission (ID: 770492)
 €4,960,721 (£279,213 to Manchester Metropolitan) (2017)
 This project is typical of a portfolio of transnational collaborative projects led by staff from PERU,
 themed around innovation in the development of public services and democratic participation;
 (other projects include Innovative Social Investment: Strengthening Communities in Europe
 (InnoSI) ID: 649189 (€2,375,832) in which we were the coordinating partner). CoSIE, working
 across 24 EU partners (Baines being our lead), had two aims: to advance the active shaping of
 service priorities by end users and their informal support networks, and to engage citizens,
 especially ‘hard to reach’ groups, in the collaborative design of public services.

 Does UK drug policy require reform? Engaging drug takers into the debate – ESRC
 (ES/R007225/1) £243,132 (2018)
 Academics, policy-makers, practitioners and NGOs are discussing (and advocating for) drug
 policy reform in the UK, focussing on the usefulness and relevance of the Misuse of Drugs Act
 (MDA) 1971 and the Psychoactive Substances Act (PSA) 2016. This project, led by Askew,
 builds on previous experience of engaging with end users to generate a national drugs action
 plan that will be informed by the lived experiences of drug takers.

 Whole School SEND evaluation – Education Endowment Fund £510,787 (2019)
 Morris used his professional experience of working in policy settings to lead PERU’s successful
 pursuit of this DfE-led evaluation of SEND provision in secondary schools. The project will
 evaluate the effectiveness of SEND in over 5,000 schools and will have major impacts for future
 education policy.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have already secured further significant awards to ensure the long-term sustainability of our
 research environment beyond REF2021. These include a £340k UKRI Covid-19 project on
 Safeguarding Victims of Domestic Abuse (led by Chantler), a £50k NIHR project on
 performance-enhancing drugs (led by McVeigh), and an investigation into Cognitive Behavioural
 Therapy in the Criminal Justice system, funded by Nuffield (Fox). Hatton’s and Ryan’s
 appointments will increase this further by over £2m from NIHR and other funders.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate (RKE)
 RKE offers ‘full service’ support incorporating the Graduate School, RKE Systems, support for
 grant bidding, IP, commercialisation and contracts. This includes a dedicated Research
 Development Team, an International Research Development Manager, and a Research Delivery
 Team, including post-award specialists and legal professionals supporting procurement, logistics
 and financial management. We have support from two Impact Engagement Managers and two
 Research Ethics and Governance Managers. A Senior Business Development Manager, a
 Partnership Manager and an award-winning KTP team support our business engagement.

 RKE Systems manage Symplectic, which is used by all staff to maintain records of outputs, OA
 compliance, and web profiles; Worktribe, is used for the online management of external funding
 applications; EthOS, is used for research ethics and governance; and SkillsForge is used to
 manage the PGR student journey. RKE Systems also provide management reports and data for
 annual review processes.

 Administrators in the University’s Graduate School work closely with our Research Degrees lead
 and the Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Research Centre (PAHC). We also have a dedicated
 press officer, a Human Resources business partner, Information Systems and Digital Services
 support, and Finance and Legal Services.

 Library
 The University Library is open 24/7 and offers access to online resources for staff and PGRs.
 We work closely with our subject librarian who contributes to workshops and training in InfoSkills
 and Open Research. Journal titles, monographs and online resources are reviewed annually.
 Inter-Library loan requests are free. The SCONUL network facilitates access to other university
 libraries. International research methods packages are available, e.g. SAGE Research Methods.
 The Library manages Green OA through the e-Space repository and funding for Gold OA APC
 charges. The provision of online resources has been particularly significant during the pandemic
 and there has been further investment in e-books.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Support for, and effectiveness of, collaborations, networks and partnerships
 We have extensive links with networks and collaborators. Over 60% of our submitted outputs
 include international collaborations with partners in the USA, Brazil, Canada, Ireland and
 Australia. We have co-authored work with over 35 UK universities including papers on drug
 policy and ageing with the University of Manchester; research on children and society with
 Lancaster University, and papers on abortion with the University of Liverpool.

 Our international partnerships include arrangements with the Price Centre for Social Innovation
 at the University of Southern California, resulting in reciprocal Visiting Professorships, study visit
 opportunities for PhD students and the production of a jointly-authored book on Payment by
 Results and Social Impact Bonds (2018). We have a significant role within the rapidly expanding
 UK Government/ESRC-backed ‘What Works’ Centres (Morris). McLaughlin leads the Greater
 Manchester Social Work Academy Partnerships research and evaluation group and is co-
 founder of the European Social Work Research Associations’ Special Interest Group in Service
 User Involvement in Social Work Education and Research. Lawthom and Fisher have worked
 with three Universities in the south of Brazil and three in India on the Place Age project. Galvani

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 works with La Trobe University (Australia). Lawthom has worked with researchers at Ryerson
 University (Canada). Duffy has collaborated with Universidad de los Andes in Bogota,
 Columbia. Stevenson’s work in Guatemala is with charities that support street-based children
 (output: 2126).

 We attract visiting international scholars, and applications are considered on quality and
 potential contribution to our research environment. Notable examples include: Professor Dowse
 who has visited around disability, Professor Chair (around ageing in Hong Kong) and Professor
 Michelle Fine (around social justice marginalisation).

 Wider contributions to economy and society
 Ageing in Cities
 Researchers in Social Aspects of Ageing have worked on international ESRC-funded projects
 alongside policy-makers and practitioners to challenge attitudes, working practices and delivery
 for age-friendly cities and communities. Our research has influenced locality planning, e.g. in
 Edinburgh, where age-friendly designs and interventions are being integrated into locality plans,
 and the research is being used by Edinburgh City Council to apply for WHO Age-Friendly City
 status. We have influenced the delivery of plans to support ageing populations in Brazil and India.
 For example, in Brasilia, our work was used to lobby successfully for additional funds to support
 the development of a community centre for older people in a low-income neighbourhood.

 Social Work
 Funded by the DfE, we have worked with Social Workers across local authorities in England to
 establish robust evidence on recruitment, retention and progression in child and family social
 work. The DfE are using the research to influence discussions with local authorities and
 education providers to consider how best to prepare social workers for practice, and ensure that
 social workers remain in the workforce, given issues of organisational culture and leadership.
 SCSW have researched Fitness to Practise under the Health and Care Professions Council
 (HCPC) guidance and the findings are informing discussions with Social Work England (output:
 2539).

 Social Care
 Researchers across the unit were funded by the DfE to evaluate the impact of two Leaving Care
 pilot programmes (Shared Lives and Staying Close). The research findings are available in
 reports published by the DfE in 2020, and having influenced service development in this area,
 going forward.

 Big Data and Policing
 PERU has data-sharing agreements with GMP, West Midlands Police, Police Scotland,
 Transport for Greater Manchester and the Ordnance Survey. Our research is being deployed by
 GMP, Capita and the College of Policing to revise the DASH assessment tool used by police
 and non-police agencies to identify victims of domestic abuse. The Home Office uses our
 research to support proposed revisions to the police funding formula. The latest Her Majesty’s
 Inspectorate of the Constabulary report cites PERU research as an example of excellence in the
 support of the police understanding and addressing of vulnerability.

 Offender rehabilitation
 PERU has a partnership with Manchester College and their not-for-profit social enterprise,
 Novus, focussing on offender learning and employment, providing evidence–based support to
 help Novus to restructure its provision. Outputs included a Rapid Evidence Assessment on
 Offender Learning (output: 2086), and a Realist Review of Offender Learning (output: 2070),
 published in academic journals as well as being used on an intranet system that Novus provided
 for its staff. PERU staff regularly attend meetings of Novus’ Executive Group, inputting into
 decisions and ensuring that the latest research informs strategic discussions within the
 organisation.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Substance use
 The Substance Use and Addictive Behaviour Cluster, which works in improving and developing
 care for people using substances, has involved close collaboration with Merseycare NHS
 Foundation Trust, the Association of Directors of Adults’ Services, Thomas Pocklington Trust,
 Alcohol Change UK and Marie Curie. It has also forged strong and ongoing partnerships with
 leading national charities, e.g. Marie Curie, Aquarius, Adfam, Change, Grow, Live, and local
 authorities and NHS trusts (see ICS 2).

 Taxation and Fiscal Policy
 We have established a network of organisations that are interested in our analysis of the
 tax/benefit system, including the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, the Institute for Public Policy
 Research (IPPR) North, the Scottish Government and the Resolution Foundation.

 Many staff have roles on Key Advisory Boards. Notable examples include:
  Morris: What Works Centre for Children’s Social Care and member of the Government Trials
   Advisory Panel.
  Ahmed: Ageing & Demography Thematic Advisory Group (TAG) ESRC/UKRI.
  Bannister: Greater Manchester Violence Reduction Unit, Academic Advisor.
  Fox: Member of the HM Inspectorate of Probation Advisory Board and Probation and Youth
   Justice Advisory Group.
  McLaughlin: Co-Chair, Joint University Council Social Work Education - Research
   Committee.
  Galvani: Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs.
  Parry: Member of the Division of Clinical Psychology, Faculty for Children, Young People
   and their Families Committee within the BPS.
  Duffy: External Member of the Centre for Reproduction, Technologies and Health (CORTH).
  Lawthom: Appointed to BPS expert reference ‘From Poverty to Flourishing’.
  Ahmed: Non-Executive Director: Mersey Care NHS Foundation Trust. Board member:
   Somali Adult Social Care Agency. Treasurer: Social Policy Association Executive.
   Trustee/Board Member: Knowledge for Change (K4C).
  Chantler: Scientific Committee Member for the European Conference on Domestic Violence.
  Kumar: Member of the St. Mungo’s Audit Committee.

 Public engagement
 We are committed to two-way engagement with community partners and have formal
 mechanisms in place for staff and PGRs to make a meaningful contribution to this agenda. We
 have ‘hub’ status in the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences and staff in the unit play a leading role
 in coordinating activities alongside community partners, and the Universities of Manchester and
 Salford. For example, Runswick-Cole was our institutional lead in 2016; Fisher and Lawthom
 have organised events on ageing and communities in all years between 2016 and 2019; and in
 2020 staff led events on gender inequality (Campbell) and the racism experienced by Chinese
 communities throughout the Covid pandemic (Wong).

 MetroPolis organises a wide range of policy-relevant events for communities in Manchester.
 Events, such as: the ‘The Future of Drugs’ (Askew); Homelessness in the Private Rented Sector
 (O’Leary); and Cities 2050 (Lawthom and Fisher) take place throughout the year with a
 particular emphasis on national opportunities for promotion, such as UK Parliament Week.

 We host a variety of high-profile guests at public lectures and seminars. Speakers have included
 Lyn Romeo (Chief Social Worker – Adults) and senior civil servants in the Ministry of Justice and
 Home Office through our partnership with the Academy for Social Justice.

 We are regularly asked to contribute to public discourse through the media. Recent examples
 include Kumar’s work on national fiscal policy and Duffy’s work on access to abortion services
 in Ireland.


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are passionate about looking for ways of valuing the experience of our community partners
 in funded projects and try to ensure that the time and expertise of partners is recognised. This
 commitment follows through into the dissemination of research, and we regularly invite
 community partners onto author teams.

 Contribution to the discipline
 Our researchers demonstrate sustained and important contributions, nationally and
 internationally, to their respective disciplines and fields of study, and interdisciplinary research.

 This includes Peer Review for bodies including: Education Endowment Foundation, ESRC, The
 MRC, NIHR, Leverhulme, Alcohol Research UK, Canadian Institutes for Humanities and Social
 Sciences, AHRC) and WHO Department of Sexual and Reproductive Health and Research.

 Our staff are highly sought after internationally as doctoral examiners. Examples include: Fox:
 University of Helsinki (2019); Lawthom: Malta (2015); McLaughlin: Griffiths University,
 Australia (2016).

 Guest-editors for journals include: Journal of Social Inclusion, Journal of Social Policy and
 Society, International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, International
 Journal of Drug Policy, Social Policy and Society. Editors in Chief include: Urban Studies
 (Bannister); Social Work Education: The International Journal (McLaughlin); Community, Work
 and Family (Lawthom); and Gender, Work and Society (Gregory.

 Membership of editorial boards of journals include: Morris: ‘Sociological Research Online’,
 Ahmed: ‘Journal of Social Policy and Society’, Fisher: ‘Community, Work and Family (Associate
 Editor), McLaughlin: ‘Journal of Gender and Family Studies’ and ‘Childhood and Society’,
 McVeigh: ‘Drug Education Prevention & Policy’, Galvani: ‘Drugs: Education, Prevention and
 Policy’ and Hammond: ‘Sociology.’

 Peer reviewers for journals include: Journal of Social Policy; Sociological Research Online; The
 British Journal of Social Work; Qualitative Inquiry; Ageing and Society; British Journal of
 Criminology; Critical Social Policy; BMC Public Health; Addiction Research and Theory; and
 International Journal of Drug Policy.

 Our staff hold Fellowship awards including: Bannister - Distinguished Visiting Professor,
 Chinese Academy of Science (China) and Visiting Professor, Wuhan University (China); Fox -
 Distinguished Fellow at the Sol Price Center for Social Innovation at the University of Southern
 California Price School of Public Policy; and Lawthom - Visiting Professor UNSW (Australia).

 Invited keynote addresses at major conferences include: Ahmed: ‘On being a good
 grandmother’ ESRC Families and Migration Conference, 2017; Bannister: ‘Alcohol and Crime’,
 Society of Evidence Based Policing, Annual Conference, 2018; Parry: 'Oh It's Just a Job; Ugh
 No It Isn't’, Developing Together SWTP Emotional Resilience and Wellbeing in Social Work
 Conference, 2019; Lawthom: Psychology of Women and Equalities BPS Social Psychology
 Conference 2016; McLaughlin: ‘Decade after the financial crash, people need to know that the
 austerity it led to is over and that their hard work has paid off. A social work perspective’, BASW,
 2019; McVeigh: ‘Public Health Heroes, Villains and others’, City Health International
 Conference, 2019; and Galvani: La Trobe University Conference on End of Life Care for People
 using Substances, Australia, 2020.

 We have PGR training collaborations including: Fisher: ESRC WRDTP; Cox: General Nursing
 Council Trust; McLaughlin: European Social Work Research Association, Oslo Metropolitan
 University; and Galvani: Society for the Study of Addictions.

 The evidence here indicates that staff in this unit have made important and timely contributions
 to academic and policy debates in social work and social policy.


                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 19
