Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Nottingham (UoN)

  Unit of Assessment: 30 Philosophy

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

UoA30 comprises 19 academic staff (compared with 13 in REF2014) based in the Department of
Philosophy. The unit has historic strengths in traditional areas of Philosophy, primarily metaphysics
and ethics. During the period, we have widened our research expertise significantly, with a focus on
interdisciplinarity and impact, exemplified by the new Nottingham Centre for Social Philosophy
(§3.1). We have pursued ambitious research, funding, knowledge exchange (KE), and impact goals
(§1.2). We currently have leading research strengths in ethics (Hoskins, Rumbold, Sinclair, Webster,
Woodard), epistemology (French, Kidd, Hannon, Jago), feminism and social philosophy (Duff,
Hoskins, Hannon, Kidd, Webster), metaphysics (Barker, Jago, Jansson, Mackie, Noonan, Tallant),
philosophy of science (Kidd, Jansson, Tallant), philosophy of language (Barker, Jago, Noonan,
Predelli), and political philosophy (Duff, Hannon, Hoskins, Woodard). We have further strengths in
aesthetics (Predelli, Robson), ancient Greek philosophy (Duncombe), formal logic (Jago), perception
(French), philosophy of religion (Goodchild, Kidd), and Philosophy of Law (Duff, Hoskins, Webster).

The Department is part of the School of Humanities, one of three Schools in the Faculty of Arts. The
Head of the Department reports to the Head of School (currently UoA30 member Tallant) and sits
on the School Management Committee. The Head of School is a member of the Faculty Executive
Board, chaired by the Faculty Pro-Vice-Chancellor. Philosophy’s Director of Research and KE (DoR)
plays a pro-active role in developing and supporting research projects within Philosophy (§3) and
sits on the School Research and KE Committee. Philosophy is further supported by the School
Director of Research and KE, a member of the Faculty’s Research and KE Committee, thus ensuring
alignment of Departmental, School, Faculty and institutional strategies and mechanisms to support
research and impact. PGR recruitment, development, and training are overseen by Philosophy’s PG
Admissions Officer, Midlands4Cities Coordinator, PGR Training Co-ordinator, and Director of PGR.
The School of Humanities Management and Research Office provides administrative support,
ranging from PGR admissions and progress monitoring, to advice on project costing.

1.2 Achievement of strategic research goals during assessment period

Research

The Department’s core aim is to sustain research excellence and diversity by fostering individual
scholarship and developing collaborative research and impact. We have achieved our REF2014
goals as follows.

i) To enhance research excellence through increased use of internal research groups. We
held weekly reading groups on book drafts, providing chapter-by-chapter feedback that led to five
monographs (Jago, Hoskins, Sinclair, Tallant, and Woodard). University-supported interdisciplinary
research groupings (e.g. the Rights Lab Beacon and Language, Texts, and Society Research Priority
Area (RPA), REF5a 2.1) enabled a range of research and impact activity, including projects by
Jenkins, Kidd, Woodard, and Tallant (§3.3).

ii) To increase research funding and fellowships, and develop innovative interdisciplinary
research projects. We report income of £388,400 (from total awards of £679,300) over the period,
with awards made to staff at all levels (§3.1). We achieved this through mentoring staff to develop
longer-term research plans and making extensive use of grant-writing, internal review, and costing
support provided by the Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS). Interdisciplinarity was fostered by the
School DoR, who brokered relationships with staff in other disciplines, and by university support for
interdisciplinary research and impact (REF5a 2.1). Staff developed external interdisciplinary

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
networks (§3.1), including with physicists (Jannson), linguists (Jago), and psychologists (Holroyd).
This work underpinned outputs co-authored with Art History (Tallant), Computer Science (Woodard),
Environmental Management (Jago), Human Factors (Sinclair), Psychiatry (Kidd), and Mathematics
Education (Kidd).

iii) Bring the Department’s research activities into closer alignment with its knowledge
exchange and public engagement priorities. This was achieved both by developing existing
research and through strategic hiring. Since 2014, the unit has made 11 permanent R&T hires (Duff,
Duncombe, French, Hannon, Hoskins, Jansson, Jenkins, Kidd, Robson, Rumbold, and Webster),
with a focus on developing research strengths in feminist philosophy (Duff, Jenkins), philosophy of
health/medicine (Kidd, Rumbold), and philosophy of law (Hoskins, Webster). These allowed us to
establish the Nottingham Centre for Social Philosophy (NCSP, §3.2) in order to engage the public
with our research and contribute to positive social change. The Centre’s 2 directors and 13 members
supported Jenkins’ work presented at Westminster relating to the Gender Recognition Act, and
Fisher’s work on school curriculum changes across the East Midlands (see Impact Case Study/ICS
Fisher). The Department’s hosting (since 2019) and directorship (Hannon) of the worldwide Political
Epistemology Network (PEN, 200+ members) has brought epistemologists and political
philosophers into contact with political science, cognitive psychology, and journalism through
academic and public engagement events. In 2019 PEN held workshops in Nottingham, London,
Warwick, Amsterdam, and Oxford.

iv) Encourage the participation of Department members in activities that support the
discipline. This was achieved through yearly Appraisal and Development Conversations (REF5a
3.1) and a Faculty Workload Model, which allocates time for work supporting the discipline locally,
nationally and internationally. Our work here includes the Just Philosophy conference series (2016–
2019: §4), which explored issues of social justice within philosophy. We have implemented the British
Philosophy Association’s guidance on the representation of women in philosophy (§2.5). Colleagues
act as mentors for The Job Candidate Mentoring Program for Women in Philosophy (Jansson),
Minorities in Philosophy (Jago), and the BPA/SWIP-UK Mentoring Scheme for Women in Philosophy
(Woodard), organised by Webster. Our wide-ranging contributions to the intellectual development of
the subject-area include state-of-the-art survey and encyclopaedia articles (e.g. for Stanford
Encyclopedia of Philosophy). Staff hold, or have held, important roles in national and international
societies: British Philosophical Association (Kidd), Society for Women in Philosophy UK (Jenkins,
Webster), British Society for Ethical Theory (Woodard), British Society for the Philosophy of Science
(Jansson), and North American Society for Social Philosophy (Hoskins). 10 colleagues hold editorial
roles (§4.2).

v) Grow the PG community, whilst enhancing the experience of graduate students. PGR
completions have nearly trebled over the period, from 10.5FTE (REF2014) to 26.4FTE, achieved
largely through success in the AHRC-funded Midlands3Cities (M3C, 2014–18) and Midlands4Cities
(M4C, 2019–) doctoral training partnerships (§2.3; REF5a 3.3). We have an active and open
approach to PhD recruitment, individually mentoring applicants through the process. Our flourishing
postgraduate community (currently 19.5FTE PhD students) runs a weekly seminar series, with
presentations by students and external speakers. Ichino, Ingram, Andow, Briceño, Austin, Donati,
and Lee have each taken up academic posts upon completing their doctoral studies (three of these
permanent).

Since 2015 an additional goal of the Department has been to expand our areas of research, in order
to become a comprehensive philosophical research centre. In pursuit of this goal, we have grown
our R&T staff from 13 at REF2014 to 19 at REF2021, hiring in strategic areas to develop expertise
beyond our traditional strengths.

Impact

The Department has invested in the strategic expansion of our impact and KE activities. Interventions
have included: engagement with the institution-wide Enabling Innovation programme (REF5a 2.2)
to deliver research-led support for regional SMEs (e.g. Tallant’s work with Nottingham-based start-

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
up Wealthkernel and the Renewal Trust); the establishment of the Nottingham Centre for Social
Philosophy, enabling new collaborative research and social impact KE opportunities; the
development and delivery of Continuing Professional Development sessions for the NHS
(Sinclair, Tallant) and active engagement with the Nottinghamshire Integrated Care Service
(ICS Tallant). The Department has also encouraged collaborative research bids working with
external partners. For example, Hoskins worked with Vecna Robotics to design a Collaborative
Doctoral Award on the ethical use of AI robots in care homes, securing a National Productivity
Investment Fund Studentship through M3C.

UoN infrastructural improvements have underpinned these activities (§3.3), together with the
establishment of an academic Impact Officer as a distinct administrative role. We have
embedded impact into our recruitment processes, asking all candidates for research posts to
demonstrate how they would engage non-academic audiences through their research. We
have embedded knowledge exchange and public engagement into PGR training (§2.3).

The unit has also focused on public engagement by disseminating research findings widely,
producing and collaborating on YouTube videos with over 3 million views. We established a
dedicated philosophy YouTube channel (1,600+ subscribers and 100k+ views). We published
articles in The Guardian, The i, The Conversation, Novara Media, The Critic, Philosophy Now, The
Philosopher, and contributed to podcasts such as Hi-Phi Nation and public events such as the Pint
of Science festival.

Our two impact case studies have emerged from and been supported by these initiatives, in
particular the Centre for Social Philosophy (§3.2).

1.3 Interdisciplinary research

The Department has supported interdisciplinary research by the initiatives described in 1.1(i-ii), and
by facilitating staff involvement in UoN events, including the Philosophy, Ergonomics and
Applications in Complex Human Systems symposium (2016; Woodard, Sinclair). We have run
interdisciplinary workshops (e.g. Tallant’s New Agendas on Time project), and engaged with
networks such as the Criminal Justice Research Centre (Hoskins). These activities have led to wider
interdisciplinary collaborations outside UoN (e.g. Sinclair’s collaboration with Loughborough).

1.4 Research Strategy (2020–25)

We will build on the successes outlined above to foster research and impact excellence across a
comprehensive disciplinary and interdisciplinary range and contribute to genuine social change. To
this end our specific goals are to:

1) Grow and diversify our research strengths and interdisciplinary collaborations through
recruitment and grant capture to enable ambitious programmes of research and KE.
Specifically, we will build on the success of the Centre for Social Philosophy by developing
interdisciplinary funding bids and research projects (e.g. Hoskins’s planned project on modes of
punishment) and form new research clusters to develop new research and KE capabilities (e.g.
philosophy of education).

2) Develop our research culture and values to show our commitment to equality and fairness
in research practice by promoting equality of representation at all departmental events, including
by maintaining gender parity of speakers and ensuring a balance of junior and senior speakers,
following our published ‘Best Practice’ guidelines (Duncombe and Kidd).

3) Contribute towards a fully open research environment, we will prepare for open digital
publication, including book publication (§1.6).

4) Support the discipline through refereeing, editorial work, conference organisation, and keynote
presentations. This will include key work on diversity within the discipline, building on our work with

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the BPA EDI committee and the Diversity Reading List Project (Kidd). We value all areas of
philosophy, including underrepresented and non-canonical areas. We will continue to disseminate
our research in a wide range of formats, including opinion pieces, blog posts, videos, and community
talks, with DoR providing information and support.

5) To enable new generations of researchers (PGRs and ECRs) we will continue to increase the
number of PhD students we graduate, offer support to ECRs wishing to secure postdoctoral
fellowships and pursue external grants with provision for postdocs (e.g. Jago’s formal semantics
bid).

1.5 Impact Strategy (2020–25)

Building on the advances we have made to date, we will increase our efforts to ensure that impact
is built into research projects from the outset. We will expand our work with non-academic partners
– creating new opportunities for impact and maintaining existing external partnerships (e.g. Tallant’s
work with the third sector and NHS) to build and enable deeper collaborations and impact. Drawing
on UoN’s Institute for Policy and Engagement (REF5a 2.1), we will develop our capacity to work with
policymakers to help address key societal challenges.

To raise our visibility with external audiences and collaborators, and disseminate key research
findings, we will increase our contributions (e.g. opinion pieces, blog posts) in the national media
(§4.3). We will build on our experience of networking at local SME events (see Impact Case Studies).

1.6 Open Research

We are committed to open research. The School Research Committee oversees our implementation
of the University’s policies on open access and research data management (REF5a 2.3), with
support for UKRI grant applicants’ data management plans provided by the Library and Digital
Transformations Hub. PGRs are supported to complete data management plans. All R&T staff have
an ORCID ID and, where permitted, all post-2014 outputs are available in our institutional repository
(RIS: REF5a 2.3). The Department has published 104 outputs through Open Access routes (31 Gold
and 73 Green, including two monographs). Jago is co-organising a Faculty of Arts conference (May
2021) on open access, to debate institutional and national change. We continue to make our
research available by producing videos for popular YouTube channels (§4.3).

1.7 Research Ethics and Integrity

Our work is governed by institutional policies on research ethics (REF5a 2.4), including
the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and overseen by the School’s Research and KE
Committee, where research ethics is a standing agenda item. Training in research integrity starts at
the outset of a research career, with all PGR students required to undertake online training in
research integrity relevant to the Faculty of Arts.

Any research involving human subjects requires an ethics review of the methods employed, risks
involved, and data management plans. A full ethics application is submitted to the School Ethics
Officer (Hannon) for approval, who reviews the project with an Ethics Officer from another School.
Where a proposal is deemed ‘more than minimal risk’, it is reviewed by the School Ethics Committee,
with the opportunity to escalate cases for review by the Faculty Ethics Committee as required.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2. People


2.1 Staffing and Recruitment Strategy

Informed by UoN’s EDI Strategic Delivery Plan, our approach commits to demonstrable equality in
experience for all staff and students (REF5a 3.1). In this REF period, the School developed and
submitted a successful application for an Athena Swan Bronze Award (awarded October 2020). All
hiring decisions are made without regard to gender, ethnicity, or disability, and in line with the
University’s HR guidance as a ‘Disability Confident’ (level 1) employer. We ensure that recruitment
processes are inclusive and accessible; communicate vacancies through a range of different
channels; offer an interview to applicants with a disability who meet the role’s minimum essential
requirements; anticipate and provide reasonable adjustments; and support all existing employees
with a disability or long-term health condition. A number of colleagues in the unit have been
supported by these measures. Of the Department’s 19FTE staff, 16% identify as disabled (national
average 4%), 16% as BAME (UK Higher Education average is similar), and 21% are women
(national average for Philosophy is 24%). In the assessment period, 4 of the Department’s 9
appointments were women.

Rewarding achievement through promotion is central to the Department’s strategy. University
processes are transparent, with promotion based on merit, without quotas and irrespective of a unit’s
finances. Success is demonstrated by seven R&T promotions in the period: four (including one
woman) from Assistant to Associate Professor (Hoskins, Jago, Jansson, Sinclair) and three to
Professor (Jago, Tallant, Woodard). The lack of women promoted to Professor will be redressed as
we support our recent appointees to progress their careers.

2.2 Staff Development

Our staff development strategy is delivered through policies, infrastructure and funding at School,
Faculty and University level, underwritten by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers (REF5a 3.1). Policies to support permanent R&T staff include: a designated research
day per week; institutional research leave; personal annual research allowance; School Research
and Conference Fund allowance; and university-wide support networks (e.g. for BAME, Disabled,
Caring, Women, and LGBTQ+ staff).

All staff meet with the DoR and Impact Officer annually to discuss research/impact plans, with further
support from the School Research and KE Committee. Meetings advise on grant applications,
developing a sustained body of work, and routes to impact. They help develop researchers’ career
paths and shape the Department’s research direction, with both junior and mid-career colleagues
benefiting. For example, Duncombe’s monograph, French’s Leverhulme award, and Jansson’s
Templeton funding were all supported in this way. All permanent R&T staff receive a research leave
allocation of one semester in seven (REF5a 3.1). This has supported the production of high-quality
papers and outputs, for example monographs by Hoskins, Jago, Predelli, Tallant and Woodard. Staff
can also apply to the Faculty’s Pro-Vice-Chancellor Research/Impact Fund for an additional
semester of leave and funding to support research or impact activity. In the period, two such awards
were granted, one of which (Sinclair 2015) resulted in an award-winning paper (§3.1). (The other
was postponed due to COVID 19.) Annual Appraisal and Development Conversations (ADC) with
a senior Philosophy colleague support individual goal-setting, and discuss progress, achievements,
and areas for development.

All staff are assigned a mentor upon appointment. Mentors and mentees meet at least three times a
year to provide support on all aspects of professional development, including research. To aid cross-
disciplinary working, colleagues may request a mentor from outside Philosophy, and such
mentorship has helped with one of our impact case studies (Tallant). Mentors and ADC appraisers
guide staff to wider support networks within the University (see above). These provide information
and mutual support, facilitating communication within the University on policy, representation, and
procedure. Colleagues with a disability are also supported through the Access to Work Scheme. All

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
women colleagues are encouraged to acquire a mentor through the Society for Women in Philosophy
(SWIP).

Colleagues from the Department have benefitted from the Staff Wellbeing Strategic Delivery Plan,
which provides support for mental and social wellbeing, and healthy lifestyle, environment, and work
(REF5a 3.1). These include University Counselling Services, university-run courses (e.g. Resilience
and Mindfulness), a People and Culture Events Programme, flexible working opportunities, and
Dignity at Work advisors.

Support for grant applications is provided by the School DoR, School Research Committee, and
Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS, §3.3). CAS provides bespoke advice, costing, and feedback
from an internal Peer Review College, that involves colleagues with experience of a wide range of
funders (AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme). This has supported successful applications from
colleagues at all levels (§3.1).

All staff (including fixed-term) benefit from research-focused training. The University Research
Leaders Programme, aimed at those on the cusp of taking on senior roles and the Faculty’s Arts
Research Leadership Programme, aimed at early-mid career researchers, have supported six staff
members (French, Hoskins, Jansson, Jenkins, Sinclair, and Tallant). The Faculty programme helped
French develop his successful Leverhulme application, Duncombe complete an AHRC Leadership
Fellowship application, and Jansson submit successful Leverhulme and Templeton applications.
Networking and training from these sessions also led directly to three articles in The Conversation,
two of which (Jenkins, Tallant) contributed to impact case studies.

2.3 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)

The Department’s support for its ECRs includes a substantial teaching reduction in their first year to
help them acclimatise to the University and additional allocated time to work towards a PGCHE.
ECRs’ research development is facilitated by lighter administrative loads and support from the DoR
and Impact Officer (e.g. to identify ECR-specific funding opportunities and assist with applications).
CAS runs dedicated workshops to support ECR grant applications and the Researcher Academy
(formerly the Graduate School) provides bespoke ECR courses on research and leadership. ECRs
are fully integrated into the Department’s research culture (e.g. presenting their research at its
research seminar) and are further supported in career development and planning through the ADC
process, and regular meetings with their mentors and the DoR.

2.4 Research Students

PGR completions have grown significantly over the period to 26.4FTE (from 10.5FTE for REF2014).
Key to this has been funding opportunities offered by the AHRC-funded Midlands3Cities (M3C,
2014–18) and its successor Midlands4Cities (M4C, 2019–) doctoral training partnerships (REF5a
3.3), which represented a significant enhancement of the 1 PhD studentship available every other
year (i.e. equivalent to 0.5 p.a.) via the previous AHRC Block Grant Partnership 1 scheme. In this
REF period, 10 PGRs have been supported by M3C/M4C awards. Our PGRs have also benefitted
from internal tuition fee and stipend awards, including 6 Vice Chancellor Scholarships for Research
Excellence and School/Faculty funding for 2 further PGR studentships.

All offers to pursue PGR study within the unit are made almost entirely based on predicted or actual
UG/PGT grades. There is no gender-inflected mediation in the process. From 2017/18 to present,
PGR applications have had a 41/59% woman/man split. All PGRs have at least two supervisors.
Additional pastoral is support provided by Philosophy’s PGR Director, with whom annual meetings
are scheduled. Currently 2 students benefit from interdisciplinary supervision (involving the
Departments of Politics and Classics) and 3 from inter-institutional supervision with Birmingham.

Our PGRs are supported by a PGR-led, weekly, departmental research seminar and by philosophy-
specific research training. Senior members of the Department run PGR seminars on the philosophy



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
job market, publication, conference presentations, preparing job applications, developing impact and
KE activity and non-academic jobs (supported by the Careers Service).

PGRs who teach are further supported by our dedicated PhD Training Co-ordinator (Webster), who
runs Philosophy-specific TA training sessions covering seminar preparation, classroom
management, seminar activities, challenging situations, marking, and EDI training (including
microaggressions, implicit bias, stereotype threat, and bystander training). Success is evidenced by
(for instance) Crawley winning a 2019 UoN Teaching Assistant Award.

PGRs also benefit from a range of skills training, through two main routes. First, the Researcher
Academy’s Arts Faculty Researcher Skills Programme, which conforms to national standards set out
in Vitae’s ‘Researcher Development Framework’ and the AHRC’s ‘Research Training Framework’.
Courses include managing research projects, impact, research governance, writing, networking, and
communication skills - the last of which has supported PGRs to successfully deliver their research
at conferences (28 in 2013–20). All PGRs are required to complete a development needs analysis
with their supervisors annually, which ensures a bespoke pathway through the training on offer.
Matching PGR needs to training has supported public engagement activities including PGRs
speaking on BBC Radio 4’s The Global Philosopher and at a Nottingham LGBT Network event
(Jackson), collaborating with artists (Langsdale), and teaching philosophy to school children
(Crawley, Lancaster).

The second route involves Midlands Arts Programme research and employability training, available
to M4C-funded PGRs. This draws on all eight M4C universities and encourages PGRs to establish
non-academic as well as academic networks, and to reflect on the changing status of arts and
humanities researchers in the twenty-first century. M4C students have access to Student
Development and Cohort Development Funds, which Philosophy PGRs have used for conference
travel, international study visits, and to organise Philosophy in Progress conferences at UoN (2018,
2019, 2020), each attracting 15–20 PGR speakers from across the UK. M4C students can also use
a Research Training Support Grant for overseas study visits.

The success of our training and career preparation is evidenced by the considerable contributions
made by our PGRs to research culture at UoN and beyond. They have published in leading
journals, including Analysis, Oxford Studies in Metaphysics, Proc. Aristotelian Society, and
Thought, and co-organized conferences, workshops, and reading groups at UoN, Birmingham,
Birmingham City, and Leeds. They have won academic prizes, including Royal Institute of
Philosophy Bursaries (Adams, Crawley 2019), a Mind Association Studentship (Thunder 2019), and
the Society for Philosophy in the Contemporary World’s ‘Best Graduate Essay’ award (Lancaster
2019). Our PGRs have progressed to successful academic careers, as lecturers/associate
professors (Ingram at York, Andow at East Anglia, Briceño at Universidad de Santiago de Chile),
postdoctoral research fellows (Roberts at Warwick, Ichino at Milan, Moruzzi at Nottingham and
Turin), and teaching associates (Lee at Nottingham).

2.5 Equality and Diversity

Following a 2015 Faculty review, Philosophy has increased staff numbers and broadened our areas
of research, growing from 13FTE of R&T staff at REF2014 to 19FTE at REF2021. We have
appointed 4 women academics. At the REF2021 census date the Department comprised 6 full
Professors (all men), 5 Associate Professors (3 men/2 women) and 8 Assistant Professors (6 men/
2 women). The staffing age profile is: 26-35 years: 10.5%; 36-45: 52.6%; 46-55: 15.8%; 56-65:
10.5%; 66-75: 10.5%. In line with UoN’s equal opportunities policy, members of the Department
are treated solely on the basis of their merits, abilities, and potential.

In 2013-20, 3 staff members have benefitted from parental leave and all have been supported upon
return with flexible and remote working arrangements (which are also available to those returning
from other forms of extended leave). Staff are required to undertake online unconscious bias
training and are encouraged to receive training in EDI best practice through UoN’s Leadership and
Management Academy. At all levels of the University, new projects, policies, committees, and

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
activities are subject to Equality Impact Assessments to ensure that those with protected
characteristics, and disadvantaged or vulnerable people, are not discriminated against. Robson and
Tallant served on the committee responsible for developing and submitting the School of Humanities’
Athena SWAN Bronze submission (awarded 2020) and are joined by Webster on the School EDI
committee. UoN holds a Silver Athena SWAN Award (REF5a 3.5).

The Department’s Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC) embeds the University’s commitment
to EDI. The EDC meets at least three times a year, advising on EDI practices and culture, including
diversity in research events, implicit bias and bystander training, working conditions, and workload
models. Following an EDC report, we adopted new, transparent procedures for selecting visiting
speakers for our weekly research seminar. As a result, in 2016–19, 48% of speakers were women
and 54% ECR (including 11% postdocs). Our leadership has been recognised internationally and
featured in the American Philosophical Association diversity blog.

The EDC assists our PhD Training Co-ordinator in providing implicit bias and bystander training for
PGRs. Department members (Jenkins, Kidd, Webster) have given professional implicit bias training
throughout UoN to bodies including, the VC Appointment Panel, Senior Leaders' Forum, Nottingham
Research Leaders, and the Institute for Policy and Engagement. Inclusion and diversity in
Philosophy are addressed by the EDC-organised annual workshop series, Just Philosophy. EDI
issues also inform our pedagogical research: e.g. Fisher ‘s work on teaching mixed-ability groups,
international, mature, disabled and ‘new’ learners, and Kidd’s on diversity and accessibility for lower-
income and non-traditional students.

2.6 Research students

EDI is embedded at all levels of PGR activity. Students funded by research councils or the University
are entitled to funded maternity and parental leave, and all pregnant students and new parents are
protected by UoN’s EDI policy. Student health and wellbeing is safeguarded at all levels, with
pastoral support offered by supervisors, one of whom is designated personal tutor, in addition to a
dedicated Support and Wellbeing Officer in the School of Humanities. Counselling and mental health
services are provided at University level. Students with specific learning difficulties or disabilities
have access to dedicated academic and disability support teams, and the Safety Office ensures
correct use of display screen equipment.

2.7 REF submission

Outputs were selected in line with UoN’s Code of Practice (REF5a 3.6). All staff involved in selecting
REF materials undertook unconscious bias training. Potential outputs were read by two internal
reviewers using a proforma based on Guidance on Submissions. In cases of substantial
disagreement, the REF coordinator asked a third reader to adjudicate. The REF coordinator
compiled outputs based on their grades and conducted a review of the list against all protected
characteristics. Allowing for double weighting, this process has resulted in a selection of submitted
outputs that represent staff at all levels: 11 from Assistant Professors, 18 from Associate Professors,
and 19 from Professors.


  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Research infrastructure, policies, and support from University, Faculty, and Department have
significantly enriched the Department’s research environment and helped colleagues achieve the
grant-capture successes detailed below. In each case, the DoR provided one-to-one support in the
application process and, in several cases, the Centre for Social Philosophy provided additional
support. These grant bids were aided by bespoke Faculty support provided by CAS and University
Infrastructure, with ADC conversations (§2.2) enabling ongoing support for research planning from
senior colleagues.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.1 Income

Within the REF census period, the robust strategies described in 1.2(II) helped the Department
secure 15 external grants, worth £679,300 (with spend of £388,400). Successful grant capture has
enabled staff to:

(1) Build collaborative networks, extending the Department’s national and international
reach: Holroyd’s Leverhulme Trust grant, ‘Bias and Blame’ (£220.6k), led to collaborations with
psychologists (Tom Stafford, Robin Scaffe) at Sheffield, 9 published articles (including two in
Philosophy Compass), an interdisciplinary workshop, and impact work (i) with employment tribunal
judges and (ii) relating to institutional racism in the police. Jago’s Mind Association Research
Fellowship and Leverhulme International Academic Fellowship (£52.3k) resulted in ongoing
collaborations with Kit Fine (NYU), linguist Friederika Moltmann (NYU/CNRS), and logician
Johannes Korbmacher (Utrecht). A Visiting Scholarship at NYU (Autumn 2017) led to joint outcomes
with Fine: an OUP monograph contract, a journal paper, and a PhD Summer School (Hamburg
2019). Collaboration with Moltmann and Korbmacher led to development of the scholarly resource:
TruthmakerSemantics.net. Kidd’s Abraham Kuyper Center Fellowship, ‘The Epistemic Responsibilities
of the University’ (£15.8k) resulted in a fellowship at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, ongoing collaboration
with VUA faculty, and 2 commissioned chapters in edited collections.

(2) Publish research as monographs and substantial journal articles: Barker’s Mind
Fellowship, ‘Flux-First: A Dynamic Geometry of the World’ and Leverhulme Research
Fellowship, ‘New Foundations for a Theory of Communication’ (£61.2k), led to a book
manuscript, Heraclitus’s Dream and several forthcoming papers. Duncombe’s British Academy
Postdoctoral Fellowship, ‘Ancient Perspectives on the Logic and Metaphysics of Relations’
resulted in a 125,000-word monograph, Ancient Relativity: Plato, Aristotle, Stoics and Sceptics
(OUP, 2020), a 30,000-word monograph, Relative Change (CUP, 2020), 2 papers in edited volumes,
and public engagement through the New Books in Philosophy podcast. Duncombe’s Newton
Mobility Grant, ‘Contradiction and Infinite Regresses in Plato and Aristotle’, awarded to
address UN sustainable development goals in Brazil, led to a co-edited volume, Infinite Regresses
and Non-Contradiction (under contract with OUP). French’s Leverhulme Trust Research
Fellowship (£22k) led to his monograph, The Epistemic Power of Perception (nearing completion)
and articles accepted in Philosophical Issues and Philosophers’ Imprint. Noonan’s Leverhulme
Research Fellowship, ‘Identity Investigations’ (£25.7k) underpinned 6 published journal articles.
Sinclair and Leibowitz’s AHRC Research Grant, ‘Ethics and Explanation’ (£103,246, starting
2013), resulted in 7 publications, including an edited collection Explanation in Ethics and
Mathematics (OUP 2016) and Sinclair’s paper, ‘Belief Pills and the Possibility of Moral
Epistemology’, which won 2016’s Marc Sanders Prize in Metaethics. Woodard’s Leverhulme
Research Fellowship (£19.8k) led to publication of a monograph, Taking Utilitarianism Seriously,
(OUP 2019) and a 2017 journal article.

(3) Develop and extend our interdisciplinary expertise: Jansson’s Templeton Foundation
Academic Cross-Disciplinary Training Fellowship (£161.9k) has allowed her to pursue an MSc
in mathematical physics and conduct ongoing interdisciplinary research. Hoskins and Robson’s
Society for Applied Philosophy grant funded a workshop on the philosophy of law, which in
turn led to their edited collection, The Social Epistemology of Legal Trials (Routledge, forthcoming).
Tallant’s New Agendas in Time grant, ‘The Art of Time’, led to two workshops with philosophers
and art historians, and a paper in an edited volume.

(4) Enhance our public engagement activities: Kidd and Woodard’s BA/Leverhulme Small
Research Grant, ‘Civic Virtues and Vices’ (£6.1k), funded two workshops at Nottingham (the latter
cancelled due to Covid). Sinclair and Leibowitz’s AHRC Research Grant involved University
Ingenuity Programme ‘Moral Reasoning Workshops’ in 2013 and 2014, for University staff,
PGRs, and local business leaders.

3.2 Departmental Infrastructure


                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Department is home to the Nottingham Centre for Social Philosophy (NCSP, co-Directors
Jago, Webster), established in 2018 to drive research and impact. NCSP hosted a major
international conference on Social Metaphysics, with keynotes including Sally Haslanger, Brian
Epstein, Elizabeth Barnes, and Jonathan Schaffer, as well as research workshops on Social
Metaphysics, Radical Education, and Ignorance and Irrationality in Politics. NCSP has 13 members
(staff and PGRs) who meet for structured research and funding planning events. Directors
investigate interdisciplinary collaboration (e.g. with Nottingham Business School) and public
engagement opportunities, and mentor funding applications (alongside DoR). NCSP was key for the
underpinning research and impact of our Impact Case Study ‘Social Philosophy for Social Need’.

The Departmental Research Seminar meets weekly during term time, overseen by a dedicated
Research Seminar Coordinator (Hannon). Departmental funding of c. £11,500 was enhanced in
2015-18 by support from the Royal Institute of Philosophy (£1,500 p.a.). The seminar supports
national research culture by inviting distinguished speakers (e.g. Macpherson, Coope, Hawley),
junior philosophers (e.g. Leech), and philosophers from underrepresented groups (Gomes, de Cruz).
Speakers are selected using a transparent, EDI-focused process, overseen by our Equality and
Diversity Committee (§2.5). Staff attendance is required and PG and UG student attendance warmly
encouraged. Our EDI leadership here has been recognised internationally (§2.5).

3.3 Faculty and University Infrastructure

The Head of Department allocates workload to support research time. The School DoR and Head of
School are responsible for the research leave rota and have discretionary funds available to support
teaching relief to complete outputs or generate impact. Each staff member has a School Personal
Research and Scholarship Allowance (£600 p.a.) and can apply to a School Conference Fund and
School Research Fund (both £1,200 per p.a.). The Faculty has similar funds available to support
leave, pump-prime funding, and sandpit events to enable research and KE. Jenkins, Predelli, and
Sinclair have each received support through these routes within the period.

The Department’s research has been fostered by University’s structures to enable interdisciplinarity
(REF5a 2.1a). Research assistance on Kidd’s Illness, Narrative, and Moral Transformation research
project was supported by a grant of £1600 from the IRC Language Texts and Society. This helped
Kidd produce two journal publications and a workshop with University College Dublin and lay the
foundations for a work-in-progress monograph. Tallant collaborated with The Rights Lab, one of the
University’s Beacons of Excellence, to develop a large grant application to the AHRC.

The Centre for Advanced Studies in Arts and Social Sciences (CAS) provides expertise in
research project planning, grant applications, and KE. It includes dedicated research development
staff, a research impact officer, and a funding team. Each department has a designated CAS contact
(Hopcroft for Philosophy), who meets with the DoR regularly. In 2021, CAS will establish a dedicated
Faculty of Arts research support team. CAS activities include bid-writing workshops tailored to
specific funding calls, one-to-one bid development support including internal peer-review (§2.2),
and support for preparing budgets. This support has been used widely by Philosophy staff in
preparing bids for AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme, Templeton, and the Mind Association.

Impact and KE activity is furthered by the University’s Ingenuity Lab and Corporate Partnerships
Team. Woodward and Tallant have benefited from institutional support for business engagement via
funding from the UKRI Higher Education Innovation Fund. The Nottingham Institute for Policy and
Engagement provides support and funding for emergent policy-related projects (e.g. Jenkins
received financial support and guidance for policy work on trans rights).

The scholarly infrastructure includes excellent access to academic resources. Of the University’s 8
libraries the Hallward Library remains the key one for Arts disciplines. Philosophically significant
archival material includes: the Colin Wilson Archive, the papers of Frank Granger (1864–1936,
Professor of Classics and Philosophy at University College Nottingham), and the papers of Robert
Peers (1888–1972), a correspondent of Albert Einstein. Staff and PGRs are supported by networked
computing and printing. The Faculty’s Digital Transformations Hub provides staff and PGRs with

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
expertise, resources and training to support digital research in Arts. Our research community also
benefits from its geographical integrity, with PGR offices (shared) and staff offices (mostly single-
occupancy) centred in one building near to our main research library.

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Collaboration

Our collaborative research and impact demonstrates a thriving and inclusive research culture.
Staff have developed collaborations with external partners regionally, nationally, and
internationally, facilitated by the University’s interdisciplinary research infrastructure (§3.3), and by
Department, School, and Faculty support (§§3.2–3.3). Within UoN we have collaborated on
interdisciplinary projects and funding bids with: Art History (Tallant), Computer Science
(Woodard; Jago; Jansson), Human Factors (Sinclair), Mathematics Education (Kidd), Medicine
(Jansson), Psychology (Jago), and Physics (Jansson). We have also worked with the Design School,
Loughborough University (Sinclair). This local collaborative activity, and the outputs it generates,
helps sustain the research base of the East Midlands. Internationally we work with disciplinary and
interdisciplinary partners in North America, South America, Australia, and Europe, on projects that
encompass the arts, engineering, environmental management, psychology, and social, biomedical,
and natural sciences. In this REF cycle, this activity has produced 45 collaborative research outputs
(7 co-authored solely within the Department; 38 with external co-authors). These comprise: 1 book;
26 journal articles; 6 edited collections; 6 book chapters; 4 Stanford Encyclopedia articles; 1 co-
authored journal special issue; and 1 co-authored book review.

We have also engaged collaboratively with national and international research priorities. In 2013-
20, staff have been Co-PI on one international project (Fisher) and co-investigators on four more,
with partners in Australia (Tallant, twice), Spain (Hoskins), and Brazil (Duncombe). Staff have been
named researchers on six international projects, with partners in Australia (Jansson), Norway
(French), Argentina (Predelli), Netherlands (Kidd), and UK (Robson, Kidd). International
collaboration has also been furthered by staff securing visiting fellowships at New York University,
University of Otago, Institute of Philosophy, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, and the University of
Sydney.

4.2 Wider scholarly contributions to the research base

The Department workloads citizenship, giving staff time to undertake external editorial, refereeing,
and leadership work in professional organisations and to enhance the discipline. As a result,
Department members hold a number of editorial positions. Goodchild is Executive Co-Editor for
interdisciplinary journal Religions. Hoskins co-edits Social Philosophy Today and sits on the editorial
board of Criminal Law and Philosophy. Jago is metaphysics editor of Organon F and editor for 7
Philpapers.org topics. Kidd is Commissioning Editor for philosopherscocoon.com and on the
Advisory Board for Journal for Philosophy of Medicine. Mackie is a Metaphysics editor for the
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Predelli sits on the editorial board for Argumenta. Sinclair is
an Area Editor for Ergo and editor for 17 Philpapers.org topics. Tallant is a Consulting Editor at
Philosophical Quarterly and Metaphysics Editor for the Routledge Encyclopaedia of Philosophy.
Woodard edits 1 topic on Philpapers.org. Webster is Area Editor for Philosophy of Law on
Philpapers.org.

Department members referee for leading book publishers (e.g. CUP, OUP, Palgrave Macmillan,
Routledge) and international journals. We referee grant applications for UK and international funders,
including the AHRC, British Academy, European Research Council, Leverhulme Trust, and
Welcome Trust, and funders in Belgium, Canada, Croatia, France, Hong Kong, Netherlands, Poland,
and South Africa. We review for fellowship, tenure, and promotion at universities including
Cambridge, Yale, Dartmouth, Tufts, Haifa, and Memorial University of Newfoundland. We hold
central roles in national and international research evaluation. Predelli reviewed for VQR 2011–
14 (the Italian evaluation of research output). Mackie chaired the Academy of Finland’s expert panel

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for funding applications in Philosophy (2018-2020); Noonan is a member of the Netherlands
Organisation for Scientific Research’s ‘Gravitation Programme’ expert panel; and Sinclair a member
(since 2019) of the International Expert Review Panel for the National Science Centre in Poland
(covering projects from across the Arts and Social Sciences).

Department members provide leadership and expertise to support and develop the research
infrastructure, at UoN and elsewhere. Woodard plays a key role in two UoN IRCs (§3.3), through
the Health Humanities management group and the Water Works Steering Committee, and has
helped develop UoN’s research community as a speaker at CAS workshops. Tallant co-led UoN’s
Industrial Humanities Research Priority Area (2018–20), sat on the University Research Ethics
Committee (2016–17), and was UoN’s M4C Site Director (2018–20). Goodchild acted as REF
consultant for Liverpool Hope University in 2016 and 2019.

Department members also contribute to the wellbeing of the discipline through leadership roles in
professional organisations, including: British Journal for Philosophy of Science (Jansson), British
Philosophical Association (Kidd), British Society for Ethical Theory (Woodard is president), and North
American Society for Social Philosophy (Hoskins). Noonan is a member of the Analysis Trust
Committee. Tallant sits on the Board of Advisors to the International Association for the Philosophy
of Time. Noonan, Tallant, and Woodard are members of the AHRC’s Peer Review College (2019–).
Hannon is an Institute of Philosophy Honorary Research Fellow.

We play a role in diversifying the discipline, through the Society for Women in Philosophy SWIP-
UK (Webster sits on the executive committee; Jenkins is a former Director). Webster and Jansson
have mentored for the Job Candidate Mentoring Program for Women in Philosophy; and Mackie
mentored at a SWIP workshop (2015). Kidd regularly gives talks, blogs, and publishes on diversity
within philosophy. Jago and Webster are Minorities in Philosophy UK mentors.

Our consulting and advisory work embeds our research in a range of user communities.
Fisher consulted on Lancaster Philosophy Department’s Teaching Review, is a member of the
Institute for Mental Health’s ‘Me-Thinking’ project, and consults on philosophical interventions in a
women’s prison. Woodard served on the Ethics Committee of the Helen and Douglas House charity
(2013–18). Tallant is Chair of the Board of Trustees for Nottingham Community and Voluntary
Service and has worked with the Renewal Trust and a range of technology companies including:
Ontology Systems (2014), Qonex (2016), WealthKernel (2016), and Future Foods LTD (2018). His
work with the NHS is detailed in his Impact Case Study (Tallant). Sinclair delivered Continuing
Professional Development sessions on moral decision-making for health-care professionals (2013–
15). Jago delivered a public Continuing Education event based on his research. Jenkins collaborated
with sociologist Ruth Pearce (Leeds) to produce a briefing document on Gender Recognition, has
consulted for the Sexual Violence in Nottingham Sexual Violence Action Network, and advises
Stonewall. Duff collaborates with Nottingham City Council and local civic organisations on the
impacts of policing and immigration enforcement in Nottingham. She also collaborated with journalist
Damien Gayle, who based several Guardian articles on Duff’s research into police misconduct.

Our research is held in high esteem. During the period, we have received 25 scholarly awards
and fellowships, including 2 Mind Fellowships (Barker, Jago), 1 British Academy Rising Star
Engagement Award (Hannon), 5 Leverhulme Research Fellowships (Barker, French, Jansson
[declined in order to take up a Templeton award], Noonan, and Woodard), 1 Leverhulme
International Academic Fellowship (Jago), 1 Erskine Fellowship (Noonan), 1 Templeton Foundation
Academic Cross-Disciplinary Training Fellowship (Jansson), and 1 National Teaching Fellowship
(Fisher). Sinclair won the international Marc Sanders Metaethics Prize in 2016. We gave 236 invited
keynotes, lectures, and talks in national and internationals forums, and have been PhD external
examiners on 42 occasions.

During the period, we organised 38 conferences, workshops, and symposia at Nottingham,
including our conference series Just Philosophy, focused on race, gender, and class in philosophy
(2016–2018) and Radical Education (2019), and a major international conference Social
Metaphysics: Race, Gender, and Disability (2018). These events focused on improving equality and

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
diversity in the discipline, drawing on our research, and included a non-academic audience. We also
helped co-organise 23 academic events outside Nottingham. Our culture of reading groups, open
to all staff and PGR students, has fostered interdisciplinary interaction and led to further research
events. Plato and Aristotle included Classics and TRS; The Enlightenment included TRS; Ethics led
to a UoN workshop with one of the authors.

4.3 Public Engagement

In this REF period, a robust impact strategy supported our engagement with five broad communities:

International online audiences: Jago contributed 2 videos to the YouTube channel Computerphile,
which have had over 1.2 million views; his videos for the Numberphile channel (2013) had over 1.5
million views this period. Jago produces a YouTube channel, Attic Philosophy, with 1,500+
subscribers and 120,000+ views. Sinclair contributed to a UoN MOOC, ‘Perspectives on
Sustainability’ (2014, 2015), in which 8,000+ students enrolled. We have published opinion pieces,
informed by our research, in Aeon, The Conversation, New Statesman, and Quillette.

The UK general public, through publications in mainstream media and public events: Kidd
contributed to pieces on BBC local Radio, ITV News, The Guardian, The i, Irish Times, Philosophy
Now, and The Philosopher. Hannon collaborated with philosophers and neuroscientists in organising
an annual event, Tate Exchange, at Tate Modern. Webster and Jenkins organised public discussion
panels, ‘Race and Racism’ (Webster) and ‘Gender and Gender Identity’ (Jenkins), at Nottingham
Contemporary art gallery, alongside writers, journalists, and activists. In total, we gave 24 public
talks and 38 talks to schools (including Sutton Trust and Fulbright summer schools, and U3A)
during the period.

Legal scholars and political activists: Hoskins produced ‘Perpetual Punishment’ for Hi-Phi Nation
podcast and ‘Do You Have to Kill to Be a Murderer?’ for IAI News, both based on his research. Duff
was interviewed by the BBC, ‘Degrading strip search left me with PTSD’ (1 million+ reads) and
Novara Media on ‘Policing by Consent?’ (1,500+ views). She also collaborated with Tom Kemp (Law,
NTU) on several Novara Media articles. Kidd was lead author on a Change.org ‘Open Letter by UK
Academics’ on safeguarding higher education. Members of the Department were involved in issues
surrounding the Home Office’s asylum decision on Hamza bin Walayat; Kidd produced a widely
circulated petition and letter of support. Duncombe produced expert evidence for the successful
appeal against the Home Office’s decision and helped draft an open letter published in The
Guardian, featured on BBC radio and in The Times, and as a result of which, the Home Office
introduced guidelines for dealing with humanist asylum claims.

The Local Business Community: Members of the Department have engaged with local
businesses, supported by UoN’s Business Engagement team, at business-facing breakfasts,
workshops, and other events. We have presented at Ingenuity (UoN’s local business network) events
on 5 occasions, leading to KE activities supported by the University (many of which are described in
the impact case studies). Tallant developed commercial work with Canadian software start-up
Time.ly and consulted for Ontology Systems on cross-over between database design and the
Philosophy of time. Hoskins secured a National Productivity Investment Fund Studentship in Artificial
Intelligence, through the M3C DTP, partnered with AI developer Vecna (§1.2).

The international community of professional philosophers: Fisher wrote on teaching for
philosopherscocoon.com. Kidd has written for philosopherscocoon.com, and guest-blogged for the
APA and the Diversity Reading List Project. Philosophy 24/7 twice interviewed Hannon, New Books
in Philosophy interviewed Duncombe, 3AM magazine interviewed Jago, University of Bristol
interviewed Jansson (for a series on science and philosophy), Demystifying Science blog interviewed
Kidd, and Legal-Phi interviewed Webster. French and Goodchild each contributed to Forum for
Philosophy public debates at the LSE (the podcast from Goodchild’s talk has been played over
10,000 times).



                                                                                            Page 13
