Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1. Overview
 Research in the Music Department is distinguished by:
       Cultural, historical and disciplinary breadth, with strengths in historical musicology and
        analysis; psychology, empirical musicology and ethnomusicology; performance and
        composition (both acoustic and electronic)
       Leadership in interdisciplinary methods
       Extensive international collaborations
       Specialist infrastructure supporting electronic music, ethnographic, empirical, psychological
        and practice-led research
 Music is one of seven departments in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities. As of 31 July 2020, it
 comprised 18 Category A staff (16.95 FTE), 2 Category C post-doctoral researchers, and 37 PhD
 students. Over the census period we have continued a strategic transformation which was initiated
 in the previous REF cycle, growing incrementally in staff numbers but dramatically in terms of
 external grant funding and research degree completions. Our research is underpinned by shared
 values of intellectual rigour, ambition and social responsibility: expansion in personnel and grant
 income has enabled us to increase its scope and to achieve greater academic and social impact.
 1.2. Research strategy
 The vitality of our research environment depends not only on the quality of our outputs, but also on
 our contributions to international networks, our impact on other researchers and wider society, and
 the researchers we attract to work with us. Our strategy for research and enabling impact helps us
 to sustain excellence in all of these aspects. We have pursued a consistent but evolving strategy
 since 2010-11, at which point we identified particular strengths in the Department, including a
 record of strong interdisciplinary collaboration. Since 2014 we have developed staffing and
 infrastructure to enhance that profile while improving support for project development, research
 students, international collaboration and impact across all subject areas.
 Our priorities stated in REF2014 were:
       to expand our research base through staff and student recruitment and more grant-funded
        projects, including postdoctoral fellowships;
       to expand international collaborations;
       to generate impact more systematically; and
       to further upgrade our research facilities.
 These aims have been met as follows. In staffing, the census period has seen strengthening in
 historical musicology (Hambridge, Johnson-Williams) and composition (Weeks), as well as
 significant expansion in music psychology (Jakubowski, Taruffi). This represents a steady
 expansion of the Department from 14.9 to 16.95 FTE, and a significant improvement in our gender
 balance. PhD completions have increased sharply thanks to improved support processes, while we
have attracted several independent researchers as postdoctoral fellows (seven over the period,
none were reported in 2014). Grant income has increased sharply, with several projects based on
international collaborations, while our research facilities have been allocated investment of over
£600,000 (§3.2). We have systematically pursued opportunities to facilitate research impact,
developing projects with the help of internal and external funding. See Table 1 for a comparison of
research environment metrics between this and the previous REF submission.


                                                     REF2014        REF2021         Change

  Cat A Staff FTE                                       14.9          16.95           14%

  Female Cat A Staff FTE                              1 (6.7%)     4.75 (28%)         375%

  Total research grant spend/ FTE                     £29,931        £99,358          232%

  Average annual grant spend/ FTE                      £5,986        £14,193          137%

  Research degree completions/ FTE                      1.09           2.47           126%

  Annual research degree completions/ FTE               0.22           0.35           59%
Table 1. Key environment indicators in REF2014 and REF2021 (Nb. 100% submission of
eligible staff in both)


Our strategic priorities for the next 5 years are to:
    i.    Strengthen the sustainability of all our subject areas, while remaining responsive to
          opportunities to further diversify and enrich our research.
    ii.   Enhance the diversity and inclusivity of our researchers and promote research that
          addresses equality and diversity issues and which supports increased social
          engagement.
   iii.   Maintain and enhance the quality and utility of our research infrastructure, including
          studios, labs and performance facilities.
   iv.    Increase research capacity by further enhancing project grant, postdoctoral and
          postgraduate research funding.
    v.    Maintain active and strategic support for demonstrable research impact across all
          subject areas.
While maintaining a supportive environment for individual researchers, we will encourage
collaborative activities that address these priorities – for example through project development –
using funds returned to the Department as grant incentivisation (§2.1.2). Research strategy will
also be an important consideration in staff recruitment. Covid-19 and Brexit will doubtless have
effects both foreseen and unforeseen: we anticipate that embracing new ways of working will be
key to delivering these objectives and building resilience. As of the census date we had not revised
our strategic priorities, which remain robust.
1.3. Research structure and scope
We conceptualise our research as comprising three overlapping clusters defined by the nature of
their predominant methods: (i) historical and analytical; (ii) psychological, ethnographic and
empirical; and (iii) practice-led (composition and performance). Defining clusters in this way
enables us to ensure that resources are allocated equitably and responsively. These clusters do
                                                2
not capture all the ways in which individuals’ research interests overlap however, and in practice
we collaborate freely across the Department, with other Durham departments, research centres
and institutes, and across the world. Our Research Committee (RC) (§3.2.1) facilitates these
interactions and ensures that appropriate support is in place.
Our weekly Research Forum brings all of our researchers together to engage with current work
within and beyond the Department; other events such as seminars to discuss draft publications or
project plans are also attended by a wide cross-section of staff. Intradepartmental structures have
developed naturally to enrich work in particular areas. The Music and Science Lab (MSL, led by
Eerola & Jakubowski), which runs its own fortnightly meetings and annual research symposium,
supports psychological and empirical research through thematic discussion and sharing of best
practice. Composition and performance research are enriched by close interaction with two leading
European new music groups led by Department staff, EXAUDI (Weeks) and the Ives Ensemble
(Snijders), as well as by our KLANG concert series. Staff and PGR reading groups support work in
several areas (e.g., analysis, music and empire).
Our collaborative research involves, within the Faculty, the departments of English, History, Modern
Languages and Cultures, Philosophy, and Theology and Religion; and beyond, those of
Anthropology, Biosciences, Computer Science, Geography and Psychology. These connections
are nurtured by University-funded research institutes and centres (see Fig. 1). The Institute of
Advanced Study (IAS) brings leading researchers to Durham and promotes thematic research
events. The Institute of Medieval and Early Modern Studies (IMEMS), Institute for Medical
Humanities (IMH), and Institute for Data Science (IDS) create opportunities for interdisciplinary
music research, as do the Centre for Nineteenth Century Studies (CNCS) and CNCS International
(directed by Zon), Centre for Visual Arts and Culture (CVAC) and Learning and Memory Processes
Centre (LAMP). The Advanced Research Computing (ARC) unit (REF5a/4.3) feeds technical
expertise into music projects.




              Figure 1. Our research is enhanced by University-wide structures




                                                3
1.4. Enabling research impact
Sustainable impact depends on long-term strategic support, identifying potential partners and areas
of activity and ensuring that all parties benefit from collaborations. Initiatives flow from staff
members, while our Impact Officer (IO) and the Faculty’s Senior Impact and Engagement Manager
(IEM) help to maximise their success. Consistent with the Concordat for Engaging the Public with
Research, recognition of impact and engagement work is demonstrated through workload
allowances and consideration of these activities in the promotion and progression committee
(§2.1.2).
The IEM assists with strategic partnerships and advises on obtaining internal and external funds to
maximise public engagement and enable impact. Our case study on Parry and Stanford has
benefitted from internal funding to cover travel and administration, while Khyal attracted both
internal and external funding and was enhanced by the IEM’s expertise. Continuing this strategic
approach assures the vitality and sustainability of our impact: we are already investing strategically
in the next tranche of major impact-enabling projects – we will support at least one from each
research cluster – including work in contemporary music and in music and science.
1.5. Supporting interdisciplinary research
We foster interdisciplinary research by facilitating deep engagement between experts from different
disciplines, tackling issues of common interest and exploring the disjunctions between their
approaches. Strategic support, including funding for visiting staff and research meetings, flows
through University Institutes and Centres. CNCS events, for example, discuss topics such as the
role of music in death and grief, or in relation to religion within imperial contexts (§4.3).
Hambridge’s collaboration with English literature and theatre scholars, Zuk’s work relating music
history to psychotherapy, and Sequera’s collaborations with colleagues in English and History on
the contextual reconstruction of early music performance have all benefited from Institute or Centre
support.
The Department has established a unique profile at the intersection of music cognition and
ethnomusicology. We develop novel research questions in cross-cultural music cognition through
in-depth discussions between ethnomusicologists and psychologists, for example at Music &
Science Lab events. This process has led to significant external grant funding (e.g., 'Interpersonal
Entrainment in Music Performance') and thence to interdisciplinary publications.
1.6. Developing an open research environment
The Department aims to lead open science developments in music, contributing to debates and
practice in order to advance research quality and reproducibility. Aligned with the Concordat on
Open Research Data, we share data as widely as possible while respecting the rights of the
musicians we record, and our technicians help to ensure excellent data management. We
contribute to public discussions of open research (https://musicscience.net/2018/05/25/open-data-
in-music-and-science/), and share data collections on platforms such as Open Science Framework,
Harvard Dataverse, UK Data Service and Github (https://musicscience.net/resources/collections/).
We maximise use of our institutional repository Durham Research Online, exceeding REF open
access requirements by expecting staff to also deposit book chapters, and we encourage open
access publication: two-thirds of the articles submitted to this exercise are full open access.


1.7. Research integrity and ethics

                                                 4
Research integrity and ethics are ensured by University policies renewed in light of the Research
Integrity Concordat (REF5a/2.3). All research projects involving work with human participants must
receive approval in line with these policies from our departmental Ethics Committee (EC). An online
ethical approval form guides colleagues through the process, which includes review of consent
forms, surveys, questionnaires and information sheets: a robust review process results in more
than half of all applications being revised and resubmitted before approval. EC is periodically
audited by the Faculty Ethics Sub-Committee, and the University Ethics Advisory Committee
provides the governance framework.

Section 2. People
2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
Our research and impact strategy relies on robust staffing processes, from recruitment to
progression, which help us to deliver excellent support equitably at all career levels, as much for
fixed-term or research staff as for those on permanent academic contracts. Over the next five years
our succession planning priorities will be to increase staff diversity (including, but not only, further
improving gender balance) and to recruit early career researchers who combine disciplinary
expertise with willingness to reimagine the future of music research.
2.1.1 Staffing strategy
Our recruitment strategy is to hire staff with the potential to produce world-leading research and
impact, while enhancing the diversity of the Department and building sustainability in all sub-
disciplines. This strategy has been effective in each of these areas. Shortlisting involving robust
assessment of the quality and potential of candidates’ research ensures that we hire excellent
researchers. We have moved from 7% to 28% female staff and are improving sustainability by
reducing reliance on individual academics in particular subject areas: we recruited additional staff in
psychology, while a new post in analysis was postponed to 2021 due to Covid-19.
All candidates are asked to evidence their commitment to EDI in applications and at interview.
Long-listing and short-listing panels read and evaluate publications, and all academic staff
participate in the selection of new staff. Unconscious bias training is mandatory for all colleagues,
advertisements are worded appropriately, and panels take care that long and short lists are
diverse, particularly regarding gender. (We halted a recruitment process in 2019/20 and re-
advertised because female applicants fell below the sector benchmark.) During the census period
we actively encouraged female scholars to apply for posts: this has resulted in 4 new appointments
(Hambridge, Jakubowski, Johnson-Williams, Taruffi).
Our staff is increasingly diverse in national origin, with 7 nationalities represented. We have a
significantly higher proportion of EU (25% vs 15%) and overseas (30% vs 15%) staff than the
sector averages. BAME representation is low but in line with our comparators (5%). We still have a
lower representation of women (30% vs 40% across the Russell Group; all figures from HESA data
rounded to 5%). Our current demographic profile therefore represents a transitional stage in a
strategic process of diversification. Our objective over the next five years is to achieve an
appropriate gender balance at all seniority levels, and to further increase diversity in other respects.
Staff are only appointed on fixed-term contracts as temporary cover for leave or secondment, or as
postdoctoral fellows (REF5a/3.4). This currently applies to two of our 18 Category A staff. Where
we are not able to extend contracts, the Director of Research (DOR) advises researchers in


                                                  5
preparing for the next stage in their careers, continuing to support their research planning, and
duties are agreed with future employability in mind.
2.1.2 Staff development
Excellent staff development for all is key to creating a positive working environment. We achieve
this through training and mentoring opportunities, research leave, and incentivising and rewarding
impact activity. In accordance with the Researcher Development Concordat (REF5a/3.4), training
and progression opportunities are fully supported for those on research contracts. We also discuss
and advise on research plans of teaching track staff, who contribute extensively to the research
environment. Fixed-term research staff are treated equally in access to funding, training and
professional development, mentoring, leave, and progression, and are represented on our RC.
Our submission features two ECR Category A researchers (Jakubowski, Taruffi), and two Category
C postdocs (Glatthorn, Lahdelma). The 6 outputs listed against the ECRs evidence their
importance to our research environment: they are fully integrated into the research culture,
collaborating with colleagues, and contributing to events and impact-generating activities. We offer
ECR staff reduced teaching loads (85%, 90% and 95% respectively over the first three years), early
access to research leave, training including induction meetings with Research and Innovation
Services (RIS), Faculty and the DOR, and advice on research grant applications.
All new staff agree with the Head of Department (HOD) a formal probation document setting out
expectations for their first year in post, which includes demonstrating the capacity to produce
research at an internationally excellent level, to contribute to research impact where possible, and
to engage fully in the research environment. The HOD meets regularly with new staff to assess
progress towards these targets. They are not required to fulfil major administrative roles during this
period.
Under the revised University system all academic staff are appraised annually by the Department
Progression and Promotion Committee (DPPC), which prepares reports on research outputs and
other research and impact criteria (REF5a/3.2). CVs are rigorously matched to research and impact
benchmarks, contextual factors such as periods of parental leave are considered, and all staff are
provided with detailed feedback. The promotions and career development processes are thus fully
joined-up. Where the promotion criteria are met, colleagues are nominated for consideration by a
Faculty committee; there is also a self-nomination route. One of the main aims of this system is to
remove discrepancies in promotion according to gender and other protected characteristics: over
the first three cycles of the new system, 1/3 of those promoted were female staff (in line with our
staff demographics).
Our mentoring system (REF5a/3.3), covers all career stages including fixed-term staff and is
geared to confidential career-development support. Review of annual Personal Research Plans
from all staff by RC provides a complementary source of advice. All staff members are expected to
take up appropriate training opportunities, including University courses such as our Leading
Research Programme (REF5a/3.3). Staff also attend grant application workshops coordinated by
RIS, and the Department has benefitted from the University's subscription to AdvanceHE's Aurora
programme, which offers leadership training to female academic staff.
All staff, including fixed-term and part-time, are entitled to apply for one term’s research leave in
seven, with special arrangements following major roles such as HOD; those returning from
maternity, adoption, or shared parental leave may apply for an additional term’s research leave. We
have supported staff by awarding research leave in these circumstances, and also to those on
fixed-term contracts to help their career progression.
                                                 6
Staff are encouraged and assisted to build strategic connections with outside bodies, including arts
promoters, museums and galleries, broadcasters and music societies, in order to enrich their
research and enable impact. Amongst our contributions to the arts sector are Leante's service as
Chair of the Advisory Board of GemArts, Dibble's as President of the Stanford Society, and Egan’s
as board member of the Norwegian composer group NMK.
Staff rewards for impact and research take the form of workload allowances, progression,
discretionary awards (REF5a/3.2) and additional research funds. Four staff members received
discretionary awards for exceptional research performance. Grant applications are incentivised by
the University, with 10% of net overheads made available to investigators and a further 10% to the
Department (REF5a/3.3). For staff members most actively engaged in impact-enabling activities –
e.g., case study leads – this work is recognised by our workload model. Impact and research form
part of the promotion matrix and are rewarded accordingly: research excellence is a mandatory
promotion criterion, and impact activity is an optional criterion. Achievement in research and impact
is celebrated and acknowledged within the Department, Faculty and University, for example in
annual Celebrating Arts and Humanities Research events.
2.2 Research students
PGRs play a vital role in our research environment, contributing to seminar debates, projects,
publications and performances. The 2019 PRES survey suggests a high level of satisfaction with
the support they receive (92%, survey completion rate 31%), with particularly high scores under
Supervision and Research Skills.
Recruitment is based on the iterative refinement of proposals and on interviewing. The University is
part of the AHRC’s Northern Bridge Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership and 10 NBCDTP
studentships were awarded to candidates registering during the assessment period (5 female). We
have diversified funding of PhDs: a further six starters were awarded Durham Doctoral
Studentships (DDS), one an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award, one a Faculty studentship, and
one a CVAC DTP studentship funded by the Leverhulme Trust, while two students are supported
by smaller charitable trusts.
We value the increasing diversity of our research students: the proportion of female PGRs rose
from 30% to 46%, and the proportion describing themselves in other categories than ‘White’
increased from 14% to 37%. Starters came from 16 different nations apart from the UK. While we
are attentive to EDI issues in recruitment and review, these changes likely reflect the increasing
diversity of our staff and their research.
All PGRs benefit from an annual review in which work samples and research plans are read by two
members of staff who are not their supervisors (this exceeds the University’s baseline expectation).
Reviewers make recommendations for the student and supervisory team (e.g., for further training).
After this system was introduced in 2013, research degree completions improved dramatically
(§1.2). (Factors including early submission and deferral due to personal circumstances explain the
ups and downs from year to year; six PhD students were under examination on the census date.)
Since 2019/20 our review process focuses increasingly on offering support for those with protected
characteristics or managing disability or caring responsibilities.
Supervisory teams comprise at least two academics to enhance intellectual diversity and resilience,
and often include staff from more than one department. All PGRs complete a Development Needs
Analysis in their first year and are encouraged to take up appropriate training opportunities; this is
also discussed in the annual review. The University’s Researcher Development Programme

                                                 7
comprises a suite of training courses for PGRs (REF5a/3.5); this is complemented by Department
provision (e.g., weekly postgraduate seminar, audio-visual recording skills, and c.5 annual
composition workshops with visiting ensembles). The NBDTP organises three annual consortium
training sessions as well as thematic events on topics proposed by students or supervisors, open to
all PGRs in the Department. Aggregated NBDTP funds of c. £9,000 per studentship may be used
to meet individual training and research needs. Funding for travel for conferences, fieldwork,
international exchanges and archival research trips, and expenses related to empirical research, is
available from DTP training grants, Faculty, Department and College schemes. PGRs also raised
funds from subject associations for events including RMA Study Days, an SMA TAGS Day, and an
international conference on musical form. AHRC and CVAC students take advantage of placement
opportunities, for example at the Moscow Earth Science Museum (audio-visual archive) and the
Pompidou Centre, Paris.
Another career development opportunity afforded to PGRs is work as Graduate Teaching
Assistants (GTA). All GTAs complete a University training course (6 paid hours), are briefed and
mentored by academic staff, and encouraged to apply for the University’s HEA-accredited teaching
award. One HEA Fellowship and eight Associate Fellowships were awarded to GTAs in the census
period.
Durham PhD graduates have a strong record of academic employment, including appointments at
Kingston, Newcastle, Staffordshire, Leuven, Royal Academy of Music, Max Planck Institute for
Empirical Aesthetics (Frankfurt), Technological Educational Institute of Crete, Naresuan University
(Thailand), and at Durham as a PDRA. Non-academic appointments include Education Officer for
the Suzhou Symphony Orchestra (China) and Co-ordinator of the BBC Proms. Supervisors and
reviewers advise on career development and support conference presentation, journal publication
and prize entry. Amongst PGR publication successes are articles in Music Analysis, Psychology of
Music and Frontiers in Psychology - Auditory Cognitive Neuroscience. Prizes won by students
include the TAGS Prize and Musurgia 25th Anniversary Prize (both in analysis) and the William
Mathias Composition Prize.
2.3 Equality and diversity
The importance we accord equality and diversity is evidenced by significant progress towards
gender balance noted in §2.1.1; from 2020 our new EDI committee will energetically address
gender equality and other challenges. We are preparing an application for an Athena Swan (AS)
Bronze Award, a process supported by the University’s Diversity and Equality Advisory Group. Our
AS questionnaires and focus groups evidence good practice in areas such as funding application
support, access to funds, recruitment to research-related leadership roles, conference attendance,
sabbaticals and training. This data-gathering process has also prompted us to reflect on areas such
as support for those with caring responsibilities and the visibility of female researchers at events
and on project teams. We are already implementing our draft AS Action Plan: amongst the changes
effected to date we now ensure that contributors to our weekly Research Forum are gender-
balanced, and we support those with caring responsibilities by running all decision-making
meetings between 10am and 4pm. Activities publicising our commitment include an annual
research event to coincide with International Women’s Day. The AS process has also encouraged
us to address issues related to protected characteristics such as race (engaging with the Race
Equality Charter and decolonisation debates), disability, sexual orientation and gender
reassignment, and beyond this statutory list in terms of social class. Our PGRs benefit from the
support of the University’s First Generation Scholars Network, developed for those who are the first


                                                8
in their family to attend university, while University networks provide support and mentoring for
BAME, LGBT+, women, and disabled staff and students.
The importance of EDI in recruitment and progression processes is described above (§2.1.1);
promotion for externally-funded research staff is also supported by the University. The research
leave policy (§2.1.2) is applied equally across the department, including to part-time and fixed-term
staff, and the 1 in 7 benchmark is met for both male and female staff. The University operates two
systems for flexibility in working arrangements: (1) staff may request permanent or temporary
reductions in the proportion of FTE worked, and (2) a Teaching Availability Request Policy allows
staff to request certain times not be considered teaching hours. Our staff have benefited from both
systems (c. 3 p.a. in the latter case).
As noted above, fixed-term staff are treated equally to those on permanent contracts and their long-
term career development is prioritised. We have not appointed to part-time contracts, although staff
may request a move to part-time working. The full range of support and internal funding
opportunities is offered to all members of staff, including those on part-time or fixed-term contracts.
Flexible travel funding policies are used to support those with disabilities or health issues.
We monitor protected characteristics in our provision for PGRs, starting with induction procedures.
We run training sessions for research students on progression from PhD to academic posts, which
include discussions of work-life balance. As with staff, students sometimes alter their work patterns
in response to life changes such as new caring responsibilities (two students have moved to PT
study for this reason). The annual review form prompts student and reviewers to discuss issues
that may impede progress (such as ill health or caring responsibilities) and ways of addressing
them.
For individuals returning from leave or managing illness or caring responsibilities, we have used the
University's systems to offer research leave on return from significant parental leave (see above) as
well as phased return arrangements. In addition to standard policies for staff with disabilities, such
as providing special parking permits, customised office furniture and equipment, our annual review
and mentoring systems allow us to actively monitor the wellbeing of staff, and we support research-
related travel flexibly. Social gatherings such as lunches for academic and administrative staff, and
events to celebrate success (§2.1) reinforce collegiality and informality.
In preparation for this submission in accordance with the University’s Code of Practice, HOD, DOR,
and Impact Officer took REF-specific EDI training. We selected the strongest profile from outputs
suggested by all eligible staff, based on anonymous grading by academic peers (two internal
readers and one external). Post-selection analysis of the representation of staff against the overall
distribution of staff under various criteria, including gender and ECR status, and in terms of
disciplinary clusters, assured us that we are not under-representing particular groups of staff: the
only category diverging significantly from an average of 2.5/FTE is ECRs with 3/FTE. All staff had
opportunities to read and comment on drafts of this document.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
3.1 Research funding
In achieving our strategic objectives we have more than doubled our annual external research
income (§1.2). This has been possible thanks to Department, Faculty and RIS staff working closely
together, matching bottom-up development of research plans to knowledge of funding
opportunities, maximising the benefit of internal resources and supporting high-quality applications

                                                 9
to external funding bodies. In 2014-20, Faculty allocated just over £1.1m to support individual
research and strategic research initiatives.
Internal funding sources include:
        The University research allowance (currently £1,000 p.a.) for members of academic staff,
         which can be topped up from grant incentivisation money (§2.1).
        Awards from the Faculty Research Fund totalling more than £47,000.
        University Seedcorn funds: seven grants totalling £33,000 have assisted preparation of
         successful external grant applications.
        IAS Fellowships (REF5a/2.2) awarded to both Department (Zon, Clayton) and Visiting staff
         (Bill Thompson and Andrea Halpern).
        Funds awarded to University Institutes, used to support Sequera’s early music performance
         research (IMEMS) and Zuk’s work on music and trauma (IMH).
        International Office travel grants to develop research collaborations (e.g., IIT Bombay).
        Three internal impact funds (awards totalling over £22,000).
External grant applications in development are discussed in Department seminars, and in ‘pitch to
peers’ sessions facilitated by the Faculty’s AHRC Liaison Group. All external grant applications
above £10,000 are reviewed by a Faculty panel.
The larger part of our increasingly diverse external grant funding comes from UK research councils,
with significant amounts from the EU (Future and Emerging Technologies and COFUND) and from
charitable sources including the Leverhulme and Wellcome Trusts. Projects enabling impact were
supported by AHRC, ESRC and private trusts. Table 2 lists selected funding awards. Particularly
noteworthy in terms of size are the AHRC projects Interpersonal Entrainment in Music Performance
(IEMP; £522,00) and Musically Intelligent Machines Interacting Creatively (£249,000 for Durham’s
contribution to a consortium). An AHRC Follow-on for Impact and Engagement grant (Khyal,
£100,000) built on our Indian music research. Funded projects generate high quality outputs, some
of which are included in this submission (e.g., three from IEMP and one from Large-scale Corpus
Analysis of Historical Electronic Music, part of Transforming Musicology).
Composition research is often funded through commissions, which are not captured in HESA data;
ours has been supported by the BBC, Arts Council England, Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra and
Quatuor Bozzini; the Performing Arts Fund NL supported commissions by numerous Netherlands
ensembles, and new work has also been commissioned in Austria, Chile, the Faroe Islands,
Germany, Norway and Spain. Overseas grants (see §4.1) are also omitted from HESA data: both
of these forms of funding have contributed to submitted outputs.




 Title                                            Sponsor               Collaborators

                                                 10
 Everyday Temple Chant in South Korean          Academy of
 Chogye Sect Buddhism                           Korean Studies
 Three Generations of Ritual Rhythms:           Academy of
 The Changing Faces of Korea's East             Korean Studies
 Coast Shaman Music
 Musically Intelligent Machines Interacting     AHRC                 Goldsmiths, Sussex
 Creatively (MIMIC)
 Interpersonal Entrainment in Music             AHRC                 Western Sydney, Genoa,
 Performance (IEMP)                                                  Montevideo, MPI
                                                                     Frankfurt, Tufts
 Khyal: Music and Imagination                   AHRC
 Large-scale Corpus Analysis of                 AHRC                 Goldsmiths, Lancaster,
 Historical Electronic Music                                         Oxford
 The Breath of Music: Investigating             British Academy
 Respiration in Indian Music Performance
 Tagging Online Music Contents For              ESRC                 Innsbruck
 Emotion
 EnTimeMent                                     European             Genoa, IIT (Italy), UCL,
                                                Commission (FET)     Montpellier, KTH,
                                                                     Maastricht, Waterloo;
                                                                     Qualysis
 DIFeREnS fellowships                           European
                                                Commission
                                                (COFUND)
 Rhythm, Interaction and Embodiment in          GB Sasakawa          Tokyo, J.F. Oberlin
 Gagaku Performance                             Foundation           University
 Prevalence, Features and Retrieval of          Leverhulme Trust
 Music-Evoked Autobiographical
 Memories
 Audible Incarceration: Singing                 Leverhulme Trust
 Communal Religion in Colonial
 Concentration Camps
 Rethinking Classical Music: Music              Royal Society
 Theatre, The Holy Roman Empire and the
 Musical Canon, 1775-1806
 Representations of Trauma in the               Wellcome Trust
 Modernist Musical Artwork
 Automatic Musical Theatre Song                 Wingspan             Sky Arts (‘Computer
 Generator                                      Productions          Says Show’)
Table 2. Selected funding awards
3.2 Infrastructure supporting research and impact
3.2.1 Organisational infrastructure
A Research Committee (RC) oversees the Department’s research, which reports to its Faculty
counterpart. RC is led by the DOR, Clayton, who works closely with the Faculty’s Deputy Executive
Dean (Research) to agree priorities in the light of University strategy. The DOR works
collaboratively with RIS and the Faculty’s Research Development Manager to support project
development and manage resources, and is supported by a Senior Research Administrator
embedded in a Faculty Research Hub. Support for enabling and facilitating impact runs in parallel,
with the Impact Officer (IO, Leante) sitting on RC and working closely with the IEM. RC also
functions as the Ethics Committee, includes our Ethics Officer (Taruffi), and refers matters to our

                                               11
Postgraduate and Infrastructure committees as appropriate. Department research objectives are
articulated in an annual planning round, through which investment needs are raised and objectives
agreed: this process led to the award of significant funds for the upgrade of infrastructure (§3.2.2).
3.2.2 Operational and scholarly infrastructure, including specialist facilities
Our World Heritage site estate houses state-of-the-art infrastructure that offers a flexible
underpinning for our research and has facilitated several externally-funded projects. ADAL is a
distinctive facility for audio-visual recording (in both field and studio) and analysis; MSL and our
electronic music studios enable a range of psychology and composition research. We continue to
adapt and upgrade these facilities to meet changing research needs.
Our facilities have been enhanced by significant investment over the assessment period. Start-up
grants for Eerola and Jakubowski enabled the establishment of MSL (c. £100,000); the University's
Research Equipment Group (REF5a/4.3) supported upgrades to ADAL and other music studio
equipment, and, with further support from University capital funding, facilitates significant
enhancement to our Concert Room’s utility for performance research, in a project worth over
£520,000 (2018/21; completion delayed due to Covid-19). This investment evidences the
University's confidence in our clearly articulated strategic priorities. Specialist research
infrastructure is summarised in Table 3.
  Facility                 Supports                             Features (selected)
  Audio-visual             Ethnomusicological fieldwork,        Professional audio and video
  Documentation and        empirical performance                recording and editing, EVO
  Analysis Lab (ADAL)      analysis, corpus research            shared storage server (48TB)
 Concert Room              Performance research                Performance space,
                                                               professional lighting, integrated
                                                               AV and surround sound system,
                                                               tie-lines to recording facilities,
                                                               instrument collection
 Electroacoustic           Electronic and computer music       Music playback and recording,
 Studio                    research and composition,           historic equipment such as
                           music recording                     VCS3 synthesizers and tape
                                                               machines. Up to 8.1 surround
                                                               monitoring
 Music and Science         Behavioural and experimental        Physiological measures (EEG,
 Lab (MSL)                 research, empirical                 ECG/EMG, respiration),
                           performance analysis                accelerometers, video analysis
 Music Technology          Computer music analysis and         Audio workstations
 Laboratory                composition
 Music Technology          Electronic and computer music       Music playback and editing
 Studio                    research and composition,           facilities. Up to 5.1 surround
                           recorded music                      monitoring
 Music Technology          Music computing, recording,         Experimental set-ups, custom
 Workshop                  empirical and experimental          equipment design and
                           research                            maintenance.
 Recording Studio          Performance research,               Acoustically isolated live room,
                           empirical performance               master control room. Up to 5.1
                           analysis, electronic and            surround monitoring
                           computer music analysis and
                           composition
Table 3. Music research infrastructure

                                                  12
Our research capability is enhanced by two full-time technical staff, who support project planning
and delivery, and train staff and PGRs. Their expertise is vital to many areas involving data
collection, audio-visual materials and electronic music performance: our support for the Technician
Commitment initiative is highly visible in the University
(https://www.dur.ac.uk/technician.commitment/). Specialist departmental infrastructure is integrated
with University provision including extensive data storage options (with allocations for our labs and
studios), secure backup, networking and high-performance computing facilities (REF5a/4.3); ARC
staff provide technical training, consultation and project support.
All individuals are offered the same support in the development of their research plans, and
individual arrangements are put in place – e.g., facilitation of home working – to ensure staff are not
hampered in their access to facilities due to disability or other factors. Where a member of staff has
specific needs in terms of facilities these are addressed, as in the case of Jakubowski who received
research lab start-up funding on appointment to her permanent position.
University collections and archives are managed by specialist Museum and Library staff, and we
have drawn on these extensively to deliver research and enable impact. Archives housed in
Durham include the Stainer Archive, Pratt Green Hymnology Collection, and Allegri Quartet
Archive, as well as the archives of Ushaw College and Durham Cathedral (now linked through the
Durham Residential Research Library). The Ushaw Collection, one of the most important archives
pertaining to English Catholic history, contains significant musical material: a reconstructed Missa
Cantata based on an Ushaw manuscript was celebrated at a CNCS event. The Durham Cathedral
Music Collection contains unique examples of music by English composers such as Tye, Byrd,
Tallis, Morley, Gibbons, Hooper, Parsons and Tomkins: Sequera has used these materials for the
Records of Early English Drama North East (REED-NE) project based in English. The IAS and
Colleges provide facilities for visiting scholars and events; College spaces are invaluable for
performance, and Colleges host their own research events.
3.2.3 Infrastructure for impact activities
A wide range of resources is deployed to enable impact. For example, our Khyal case study relied
on our technicians and studio facilities for the preparation of media and an app development brief,
as well as on sustained collaboration with Durham's Museum and Library staff. Apart from hosting
one iteration of the Khyal exhibition, museum staff advised and assisted with the presentation,
transportation and storage of artwork, hosted workshops for the general public and worked on
contractual arrangements with Legal Office support. Other facilities supporting impact include:
       Our University-funded professional concert series Musicon enables public engagement and
        impact relating to new music, Victorian British composers, Korean and Indian repertoires –
        in the latter case allowing us to attract new audiences (such as families to attend morning
        concerts). Musicon collaborates with GemArts on Indian music performances, with the
        Durham Vocal Festival in presenting EXAUDI concerts, and with the Dutch and Norwegian
        arts councils.
       We contribute annually to the Durham Schools’ Science Festival, a three-day event
        attended by >850 local school pupils each year, with session topics including entrainment
        and music and emotion.
       The University’s media suite facilitates broadcast appearances: e.g., BBC Radio 5 Live
        invited listeners to call in to discuss favourite sad songs, inspired by Eerola’s research.
3.3 Collaborative use of research infrastructure
                                                   13
Collaborative research employs facilities housed in other departments – such as the Vicon motion
capture system in Psychology – and at our partner institutions. Durham has a formal collaboration
agreement with Fondazione Giorgio Cini in Venice which funds exchange visits (two in 2019/20).
We have collaborated with Cini in presenting online events (https://www.cini.it/en/events/zoom-in-
on-masters-iismc-online-conversations) and benefitted from their infrastructure to make audio-
visual recordings. Research grants awarded overseas also indirectly support our research work:
Eerola's Academy of Finland-funded project 'Sweet sorrow' uses University of Jyväskylä facilities,
and an Indian government grant facilitates joint research in music computing at the Indian Institute
of Technology Bombay.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
4.1 Research collaborations
Collaboration with regional, national and international partners amplifies our contribution to
academic disciplines and society while enriching our research with new ideas, perspectives and
expertise. Staff are supported in developing such relationships through advice for project planning
and support from University Seedcorn, International Office and IAS funds for networking activities.
The Northern Network for Empirical Music Research (NEMuR) builds on our regional connections
in psychological and empirical research. National collaborators in research projects include
Goldsmiths and Sussex (MIMIC), Lancaster and Oxford (Large-scale Corpus Analysis).
International research collaborations involving the USA, Canada, Australia, Uruguay, Chile, India,
Italy, Germany, Austria, Finland, Norway, Spain and France, have similarly fostered funded
projects (see Tables 2 & 4) and research outputs. CNCS International, founded as a collaboration
with Sorbonne, Monash and Aarhus Universities, aims to facilitate interaction between a larger
global consortium of universities, museums and professional societies. Collaborations with
performing groups, venues and broadcasters are equally crucial to composers and performers.
About half of the outputs in this submission benefitted from international collaborations.
  Title                               Sponsor              Collaborators              Support
  Sweet Sorrow: Testing the           Academy of           Jyvāskylā                  Research
  Empathy-Related Mechanisms Finland                                                  funded in
  Involved in Enjoyment of                                                            Finland
  Music-Induced Sadness                                                               (€575,873)
  Composition (music and              Arts Council         Ny Musikks                 Commission
  gesture)                            Norway               Komponistgruppe            fees (£32,000)
  Social Cohesion and                 Australian           Melbourne, Macquarie, Travel,
  Resilience Through                  Research Council Exeter                         research
  Intercultural Music                                                                 expenses
  Engagement
  Theorizing Sonata Form in           SSHRC (Canada) Toronto, Edinburgh               Travel, corpus
  European Concert Music,                                                             preparation
  1815–1914
  Research visit of Dr Ranjani        Charles Wallace                                 Visitor’s
  Ramachandran                        Trust India                                     expenses
  Computational Musicology            Government of        IITB (Mumbai), IIT         Travel,
  and Study of Instruments in         India                Chennai, IIT Dharwad,      research
  Indian Music Traditions                                  McGill, UPF Barcelona expenses
  Cross-Cultural Research into        Huttunen                                        Fellowship
  Consonance                          Foundation/                                     costs
                                      Ehrnrooth
                                      Foundation

                                                14
Table 4. Selected overseas grant awards
4.2 Engagement with research users and wider contributions to the economy and society
Our research achieves impact by enhancing public engagement with scientific research and public
awareness and appreciation of neglected musics, through contributions to education, and by
bringing economic benefits to performers, venues and record companies. Such impacts depend on
partnership with other stakeholders such as museums and archives, music venues, promoters,
schools and arts organisations. Summarised below are some ways – other than those featured in
Music’s case studies – in which we have engaged with users and beneficiaries of our research.
These interactions feed into our research and enrich the environment in various ways: directly, as
in a study commissioned by BBC Radio 3 that enhanced IEMP
(https://musicscience.net/2018/03/10/inside-a-string-quartet/), or indirectly, through the new
perspectives they engender in researchers.
Schools and the general public
      Sequera’s music is an integral part of public re-enactments of historical ritual and
       performance events produced by Records of Early English Drama North East (REED-NE;
       see http://community.dur.ac.uk/reed.ne/?page_id=577). This contribution features in
       Durham’s UoA 27 Impact Case Study ‘Cultural Heritage of North-East England’, which
       evidences the fact that many individuals have become active participants in these musical
       and dramatic productions.
      We present sessions annually at the Durham Schools’ Science Festival (§3.2), and our
       research featured in the Genoa and Sydney science festivals. RCUK funding supported
       sessions for primary school groups on rhythm and interaction ('Together in Time’,
       Jakubowski, ESRC IAA), and Creative Coding in North East Schools (AHRC), and we
       delivered Indian music workshops for GCSE groups (Leante and Clayton).
      Contemporary Music for All (CoMA) encourages amateur musicians to perform
       contemporary music: Weeks contributes as workshop leader and artistic director of their
       partsongs project.
Music venues, promoters, ensembles and record companies
      Our research relies on extensive collaboration benefitting ensembles (including the Royal
       Concertgebouw Orchestra – where Rijnvos held a residency – Telemark Chamber
       Orchestra, Fretwork and Stile Antico, and the Royal Northern Sinfonia for whom Hambridge
       recorded educational videos), venues (such as the Sage Gateshead and Royal Opera
       House), and festivals (Collins’ artificially intelligent critic ‘CritAIc’ curated concerts at the
       2019 Donaueschingen Festival).
      Composers and performers work closely with record labels including RCO Horizon, Winter
       & Winter, Hat Hut, Chandos, RTF Classical/ Nimbus, Métier, Confront, Another Timbre and
       Fabra, in many cases achieving excellent reviews and significant sales, with some CDs
       rereleased due to high demand (e.g., Snijders, ‘Morton Feldman’).
      At Music in the Round (Sheffield) and the Wigmore Hall (London), Horton has run
       workshops applying analytical techniques to work on repertoire (also including a round table
       with BBC Radio 3 and the Proms).



                                                 15
Museums and galleries
      Hambridge works to build public engagement with Napoleonic repertoire as part of a
       University partnership with the Bowes Museum in Barnard Castle, and at the Victoria and
       Albert Museum.
      CNCS International (§4.1) is also working with the V&A as part of a network involving
       several UK and European museums.
      Jakubowski's work on earworms had the widest reach of any research across the University
       in 2016/17, featuring in over 490 outlets and 70 TV and radio broadcasts. Other projects to
       receive significant media exposure include Eerola's project on enjoyment of sad music,
       Leante’s on bhangra and Clayton’s on entrainment. Collins' algorithmic composition work
       was featured in the Sky Arts programme ‘Computer Says Show.’
Where possible these activities engage with diverse communities. Our work with local Arts Council
National Portfolio Organisation, GemArts (tagline: 'Creating and profiling diverse arts') is a good
example of this: Gem work with a very diverse range of schools – including those in deprived areas
of North-East England – and groups such as refugee organisations. Our collaboration was featured
as a case study by the AHRC-funded 'Common Cause' project exploring relationships between
university research and BME communities (https://www.commoncauseresearch.com/case-
studies/).
Our impact case studies exemplify this strategic approach. In Khyal we built on strong long-term
relationships with GemArts and Durham’s Oriental Museum, developing further collaborations with
art galleries, London-based promoter Sama Arts, local SME Komodo Digital, and local schools, by
means of which we reached at least 50,000 visitors and app users in 34 countries. Dibble’s work on
Parry and Stanford, showcased in our other case study, has generated impact through a long-
standing relationship with the BBC and collaborations with record companies (including Hyperion
and Chandos), venues (Wexford Festival, Royal Festival Hall), and performers, through which he
has reached audiences nationally and in Europe, North America and Asia. Both projects secured
external funds (AHRC for Khyal, The Covell Frydenlund Charitable Fund for Stanford) as well as
internal support.
4.3 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
Our commitment to the sustainability of the wider research environment is seen both in extensive
collaboration with researchers around the world and in leading open science initiatives in music
(§1.6). We also support the development of the discipline by responding to national initiatives:
Hambridge and Johnson-Williams both serve on working groups of the Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion in Music Studies network, while the Khyal ICS and our approaches to impact and EDI are
influenced by the 2015 Warwick Report, Enriching Britain: Culture, Creativity and Growth. We also
contribute to the vitality of the discipline by committing resources to hosting research events, many
of which support our interdisciplinary agenda (Table 5).




                                                  16
 Event                                                             Sponsor
 ‘Musical Bodies’                                                  European Seminar in
                                                                   Ethnomusicology
 ‘Trauma Studies in the Medical Humanities’                        IMH/ Music Department
 ‘The Psychology of Live Music Performance’                        British Society of Aesthetics/
                                                                   Humboldt University Berlin
 ‘Music, Media and Technologies’                                   RMA/ Geography Department
 ‘Words and Music in the Nineteenth Century’, ‘Music,              CNCS
 Empire and Religion’, ‘The English Musical Renaissance
 and the Church’, 'Music, Death and Grief in the Long
 Nineteenth Century', ‘The Melodramatic Moment’
 ‘Music & Lifetime Memories’, ‘Research Methods in Music MSL
 & Emotion’, ‘Cross-cultural Research in Music Cognition’
 ‘Theory and Analysis Graduate Students (TAGS)            Society for Music Analysis
 Conference’                                              (SMA)
Table 5. Durham-hosted research events
Music staff serve on numerous professional bodies. Horton was President of the Society for Music
Analysis (2014-2019), and Leante was Secretary General of the European Seminar in
Ethnomusicology (2014-2020). Hambridge and Horton serve on the council of the RMA (whose
conference we will host in 2022), Zuk is a convener of the Russian and Eastern European Music
Group (British Association of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies), and Sequera a board
member of the Lute Society.
We work to strengthen the position of Music as a school subject, and of certain musical genres with
restricted public profiles. Examples noted above are Weeks’ contributions to contemporary music,
Sequera’s to early music performance, Dibble’s to Victorian and Edwardian music, and Clayton
and Leante’s to Indian music. Horton‘s contributions to the SMA’s Music Literacy Project included
commissioning surveys of music teaching in schools, while Hambridge arranged school visits
through ‘Inspiring the Future.’
4.4 Indicators of wider influence and recognition
Music staff contribute to journal editorship, as Editor (Nineteenth-Century Music Review, Zon) or in
other roles (at least 26 journals and book series); this influence is felt across numerous fields. Zon
also edits the Routledge book series Music in Nineteenth-Century Britain.
Our contribution to grants committees extends beyond the UK research councils (Horton and Zon
serve as members of the AHRC Peer Review College) and Leverhulme Trust to the European
Commission and ERC, and to national and regional funding boards in eleven countries, and the
Italian national committees for research assessment (MIUR) and academic appointments (ASN).
Clayton was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (2020), while Weeks won two prestigious
composition prizes (the British Composer Award, Chamber category, 2018 and the Ivors Academy
Composer Award, Small Chamber category, 2019). Hambridge was awarded the Jerome Roche
Prize by the RMA for a distinguished article by a scholar in the early stages of their career (2016).
Our staff have contributed 13 keynote papers and numerous invited conference papers, and had
works performed in Austria, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Germany,
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the USA.

                                                17
 We have contributed to chairing conferences including ESEM, Analytical Approaches to World
Music, and the International Conference of Students of Systematic Musicology (SysMus), and to
numerous programme committees across our subject areas. Our expertise was called on for
appointment and tenure reviews at 14 universities in the UK, Europe, North America and Australia,
while Horton served as the Netherlands & Flanders Music Theorist in Residence. We contribute to
reviewing books and articles for all major publishers of music monographs, and over 60 journals
across all of our musical specialisms as well as anthropology, biology, geography, history,
psychology, signal processing, theatre, and film studies.
Zuk is Durham’s Academic Director of Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership, which runs
the AHRC’s annual studentship competition in the North East and Northern Ireland and its
associated training programme. Input to doctoral programmes and training elsewhere includes
contributions to student conferences (SysMus, BFE-RMA) and study days, mid-term PhD reviews
(Oslo), and examining at numerous UK institutions as well as in Canada, Australia, Norway and
Ireland.
4.5 Category C staﬀ
Two postdoctoral fellows are listed as Category C: both combine their individual research with
collaborations and contributions to events such as Research Forum. Glatthorn is a Newton
International Fellow (one of only three such awards in Music in the years 2014-19). He won the
Centenary Prize competition for his Music & Letters article and the Marjorie Weston Emerson Award
of the Mozart Society of America. Lahdelma is funded by Finnish foundations: his recent work is
published in Musicae Scientiae and Scientific Reports.




                                              18
