Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University


 Unit of Assessment: 29. Classics


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Context and Structure
 The Classics and Ancient History Unit at Newcastle University sits within the School of History,
 Classics and Archaeology (HCA) in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HaSS). As of
 July 2020, the UoA comprises 16 members of staff on T&R and R contracts: three Professors, a
 Reader, two Senior Lecturers, eight Lecturers (all permanent), and two Postdoctoral Research
 Fellows. Two colleagues (Haysom and Rütten) are on joint T&R appointments, with Archaeology
 and History respectively. The Unit also includes three T&S colleagues on permanent contracts (S.
 Holton, Miller, Waite), who contribute to its research; Waite has played a central role in one of the
 Impact Case Studies. Three Visiting Professors (Agosti, Birley, Woodman) and a number of
 Visiting Fellows (mostly from overseas) have been part of the Unit’s research environment in this
 REF cycle.
        In REF 2014 the Unit submitted 10.2 Category A FTEs (100% of the eligible staff); it is now
 returning 15.8 FTEs, only 6 of whom were entered in REF 2014. This growth by over 50% is the
 outcome of a strategic decision by the University to invest in the expansion of the Unit and its
 diversity, both in terms of staff base and expertise. We have considerably enhanced our
 international dimension during this REF cycle: four out of the five permanent staff appointed
 since 2016 came to Newcastle from non-UK institutions. We are now one of the most
 internationally diverse Classics UoAs in the country. The gender balance among T&R/R staff is
 11 men/5 women (an improvement on the 8/3 ratio of REF2014); three of the latest five permanent
 T&R appointments (since 2016) are women. 50% of the successful promotion applications
 submitted by T&R colleagues in this REF cycle came from women.
        The UoA is part of a School (HCA) that includes three different Subject Areas and over 90
 academics, and whose profile and outlook has few equivalents in the country. Line management
 responsibility lies with the Head of School; each Subject Area has a Head of Section. General
 oversight of the research strategy rests with the School Research Committee (SRC), which
 includes members from the three Subject Areas, is chaired by the School Director of Research,
 and has Sub-committees for each of the three UoAs. It reports to the School Executive Board, and
 the School Director of Research sits on the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee.
 Research leadership at UoA level is entrusted to the Unit Coordinator and the Director of Impact,
 who sit on the UoA Research Sub-Committee along with the Subject Head. Members of the Unit
 have had School-wide responsibilities during this REF cycle (Santangelo as HCA Director of
 Research, 2014-2019 and Postgraduate Research Director, 2014-2016, 2018; Stocks as HCA


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Athena Swan Academic Lead, 2018-2020; Vergados as HCA Postgraduate Research Director,
 2019-). Clear succession plans are in place for the early phase of the next REF cycle, and
 colleagues that joined us during the last quinquennium will hold significant leadership roles from
 2021: Stocks will take on the Section Headship, J. Holton will be HCA Director of Teaching, and
 Langellotti will be Acting PGR Director during Vergados’ research leave.
        In this REF cycle the Unit has experienced the greatest degree of expansion since the
 teaching of Classics at Newcastle began in 1874. The last seven years have brought a
 considerable range of opportunities, as a result of both significant institutional investment and
 success in external funding capture. Each appointment has been the outcome of careful and
 participatory debate across the Unit and internationally competitive recruitment processes.
 Ensuring equitable gender representation on selection panels has been a consistent strategic
 priority; from 2019 recruitment panel members have been required to complete the University’s
 on-line unconscious bias training. Our strategy for 2021-2028 will revolve around furthering the
 potential that this phase of expansion has brought, and fostering a culture of collegiality and
 collective decision-making.
        After the publication of the REF 2014 results HCA reviewed its medium- to long-term
 Research strategy and launched key initiatives in two major areas: developing a strong research
 mentoring culture, and furthering interdisciplinary work, both within the School and across the
 institution. Mentoring is now available to all colleagues regardless of their career stage, and is
 included in the workload allocations of all Research staff. The increasing emphasis we have been
 placing on support practices and structures is embedded in a wider commitment to Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion, which has been the guiding principle of the School’s application for the
 Athena SWAN Bronze Award (awarded May 2020). Interdisciplinary research has been central to
 our thinking and practice, and is reflected in the number and range of interdisciplinary outputs
 included in this submission. In September 2014 we created new internal funding schemes for
 collaborative work, articulated around nine interdisciplinary themes which exist across the whole
 HCA School: Conflict and Revolution; Empires and After; Ideas and Beliefs; Labour and Society;
 Life Cycles, Bodies, Health and Disease; Landscape; Material Culture; Performance; The Writing
 of History. Classics colleagues have had leadership roles in running two research strands: Writing
 of History (J. Holton, Santangelo) and Performance (Stocks, Vergados). On a wider institutional
 level, we have close ties with the Newcastle University Humanities Research Institute (NUHRI),
 which has provided valuable support to several of our research events.


 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our key ambition has been to place all members of the Unit in the most favourable position to
 pursue their research questions and produce world-leading research. Creating and nurturing a
 diverse and inclusive environment, in which collegiality is a key value and operating principle
 and in which effective support and mentoring is available to colleagues at all career stages, is


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 central to the viability of that strategy. In 2014-2020 we have furthered the opportunities for high-
 quality collaborative work, building on the concentration of distinctive expertise in some areas,
 whilst retaining a broad base of interests, ranging from Bronze Age Greece to the early Byzantine
 period, that is reflected in both our research and teaching profile.
    Our strategy has revolved around four key tenets:
    1. Expanding and diversifying our research-active staff base to include new chronological
        and thematic areas;
    2. Enhancing the visibility and reach of our work on the national and international scene;
    3. Making a strong contribution to the long-term sustainability of the discipline, both by
        strengthening our PGR cohort and by supporting our community of early-career
        researchers;
    4. Furthering the public understanding and benefits of our subject by developing and
        sustaining a diverse Impact and Engagement strategy, notably through links with non-HEI
        organisations in the North East of England.
 We have pursued these priorities through a series of interlocked initiatives:
    1. Substantial institutional investment has enabled four new permanent appointments,
        including a hire at senior level in Greek, three replacement appointments, three temporary
        appointments to replace staff on leave, and a three-year postdoctoral fellowship. External
        funding success has led to the appointment of three postdoctoral scholars in this cycle
        (two Leverhulme Early Career Fellows and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow).
    2. Consolidating and enhancing our research infrastructure, chiefly by increasing our
        resources at the Philip Robinson University Library and substantially expanding its e-book
        provision even before the outbreak of the COVID pandemic turned that into a priority for
        the viability of our teaching programmes.
    3. Increasing our external funding by introducing more supportive and robust arrangement
        for the scoping, costing, and management of research applications, and by introducing
        bespoke mentoring for early and mid-career colleagues, resorting where appropriate to
        expertise from other Sections of HCA and across the University. This has led to a 32%
        increase in our external research income (from £407,650 to £539,799) and to a significant
        widening of our base of successful PIs from the previous REF cycle (from 3 to 7);
    4. Convening high-profile events that would further develop the international research
        networks of individual colleagues, lay the foundations for world-leading publications, and
        enhance the standing of the Unit;
    5. Integrating our postgraduate research community into the Unit’s research environment
        by securing funded studentships through the AHRC Northern Bridge Doctoral Training
        Partnership (6 since 2015) and involving students in the design, planning, and
        management of research events;



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    6. Strengthening our ties with major cultural institutions in the North East, and embedding
        them into our research and teaching practice (cf. ILES 2.4.2). Our partners include the
        Great North Museum and the Vindolanda Trust, with both of which we have been running
        major projects that have fed into our Impact Case Studies; English Heritage; Seven Stories;
        and the Literary and Philosophical Society at Newcastle upon Tyne.
    7. Contributing to the furthering of the Open Research agenda through our involvement with
        and support of two Diamond OA journals: Histos and History of Classical Scholarship.


 A considerable body of research has been produced in the UoA during this cycle, only a small
 portion of which is being submitted, on the basis of a robust quality assessment process, to this
 REF. World-leading work has taken shape both as a result of individual and collaborative research
 projects. We have developed five clusters of concentrated interest and collaborative activity, upon
 which we intend to build further during the next REF cycle:


    1. Research on ancient historical writing and its modern reception, ranging widely from
        Herodotus to late antique historiography. Major publications have appeared in this area
        (several papers by J. Holton, a monograph by Santangelo, a co-edited book and a
        substantial article by Skinner), and high-profile events have been led by UoA members at
        Newcastle and elsewhere. The UoA has remained closely involved with the running of the
        OA journal on ancient historiography Histos, whose website has averaged 828 visitors a
        month since its relaunch in July 2011. The Writing of History strand has been a valuable
        source of financial support, both to the running of the journal and to the organization of
        international research events: the conference on Homer and Herodotus organized by
        Matijašić in March 2019, and that on Ancient History in the Interwar Period organized by
        Santangelo and two PhD students, respectively from Newcastle and Groningen, in
        January 2020. Moreover, it has provided a valuable framework for the Newton Advanced
        Fellowship held by Juliana Bastos Marques (Universidade Federal do Estado do Rio de
        Janeiro, PI Santangelo), which funded two conferences on Authority and Authorship in
        Newcastle and São Paulo (2019).
    2. Research on performativity in ancient literature, with special focus on two areas: ancient
        epic, where recent appointments have enabled the creation of a distinctive focus of
        expertise (Stocks, Vergados and Walter have published major monographs); and ancient
        music and musical theory, where Creese has further developed internationally significant
        work, partly funded by a Leverhulme Research Fellowship. Recent funding successes
        have enabled further expansion into the domain of late antique epigrams (Gullo, under a
        Leverhulme ECF; in 2019 we hosted G. Agosti, from Rome La Sapienza, as Leverhulme
        Visiting Professorship). Again, the School-wide Performance Theme provided an important
        framework for collaborative activity, and ensured funding for the conference on Ancient


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Conceptions of Music organized by Creese and P. Destrée (Louvain-la-Neuve) in March
        2017.
    3. Research on the political and intellectual history of the late Hellenistic period, both in
        Rome and in the Greek East: an area in which J. Holton, Matijašić, Santangelo and
        Wisse have produced substantial publications, and that has also seen a number of PGR
        funding successes in the AHRC Northern Bridge DTP. It has also provided a necessary
        framework for the Newton Advanced Fellowship held by Claudia Beltrão (UNIRIO), whose
        project on divine images in Cicero was supervised by Santangelo as PI and led to the
        organization of three conferences in Rio de Janeiro (2017, 2018 and 2019); edited volumes
        stemming from the first two events appeared in 2020.
    4. The administrative and legal history of the Roman world, ranging from Roman Italy
        (Luciani, Santangelo) to Egypt (Langellotti); ambitious and already influential work on law
        in Late Antiquity and its legacy has also been unfolding (Corcoran). Luciani’s Marie
        Skłodowska-Curie project (2016-2018) has been a major focus of activity, including an
        interdisciplinary conference on public slavery (2018).
    5. The history of the classical tradition and classical scholarship, in which we have
        collaborated with colleagues in History through the Ideas and Beliefs School-wide strand,
        led by Katherine East (Leverhulme Early Career Fellow in Classics in 2015-2018, Teaching
        Fellow in 2018-19, and now Lecturer in Modern Intellectual History at Newcastle, submitted
        to UoA 28). Civic religion has been a strong thematic focus, along with the classical legacy
        in North-East England. The international conferences on Civic Religion organized by East
        in 2018 and 2019, when she was a member of the Unit, involved a number of ancient
        historians, including J. Holton and Smith). The new Open Access journal History of
        Classical Scholarship, co-founded by Santangelo in 2019, aims to become a venue of
        international significance to global conversations on the scope and future direction of the
        discipline. Rütten and Smith have also published important contributions in this field.


 Interdisciplinary links: The interdisciplinary outlook of HCA has generated ample scope for
 collaborative work involving other Subject Areas. Involvement with cross-School themes remains
 significant, both with those coordinated by colleagues within the Unit (Performance; Writing of
 History) and with others led by historians of later periods, notably Empires and After (Skinner)
 and Beliefs and Ideas (Santangelo, Smith).
        Several longstanding aspects of the research carried out in the UoA (e.g. J. Holton on
 Hellenistic kingship, Langellotti on rural communities in Roman Egypt, Santangelo on the history
 of classical scholarship, Skinner on Herodotean receptions in nineteenth-century Britain) are
 directly relevant to the recent and ongoing work that has developed across HCA, notably in
 History, on decolonizing the teaching curriculum. Several Ancient History staff are involved in the
 new ‘Global Ancient History’ module, offered by colleagues from the three Subject Areas from


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 October 2020. In the next REF cycle we intend to build further collaborative work in this area, both
 within the UoA and at School level.
        We make a substantial contribution to the PGT offer in Archaeology, have collaborative
 PGR supervision arrangements with History (Santangelo, Skinner), and have valuable ongoing
 ties with other Schools, especially in the area of PhD supervision, and notably with Arts and
 Cultures (Creese), English (Stocks, Walter), and Politics (Rütten). The Northern Bridge DTP has
 enabled Newcastle colleagues to take part in six supervisory teams with Durham colleagues, three
 of which in a primary supervisory capacity.


 Collaborative and cross-sector research: as mentioned at the outset, a key priority of this REF
 cycle has been embedding into the Unit’s research culture a sustained ambition to engage in
 cross-sector collaboration. This has significant implications to the Impact strategy of the Unit,
 but is more widely embedded within the University’s mission as a civic institution driven by a strong
 public ethos. We have been building on our long-standing connection with the Great North
 Museum: Hancock (GNM), which since 2009 includes the Shefton Collection of Greek and
 Etruscan Archaeology previously housed on the University campus. The Greek and Etruscan
 holdings have been the centerpiece of a major research and impact project, led by Waite from
 2014, which has led to the creation of a Community Curriculum in collaboration with the Centre
 for Learning and Teaching at Newcastle University and the GNM, and is one of our two ICS. The
 other major organization in the North East that explores the Classical legacy of the region, the
 Vindolanda Trust, has been a key partner in an Arts Council-funded initiative led by Stocks from
 November 2016, revolving around the development of an interactive game set in the site of the
 Roman garrison post, playable on smart phones and tablets, which has fed into our second ICS.
 In the final part of the cycle, Stocks has also been central to scoping the early stages of a
 partnership with the Dutch National Museum for Antiquities (see below, Section 4).
 Our focus on the education sector is part of a wider ambition to contribute to the furthering of the
 public understanding of the subject and its societal value. We have pursued it through a number
 of projects, whether locally (e.g. the Beyond Frontiers project that Skinner led in 2014-2015,
 building on his work on ancient ethnography to further the understanding of the other among
 primary school children), nationally (e.g. Santangelo’s 2017 LACTOR sourcebook on the late
 Roman Republic, targeted at audiences of sixth-formers) or internationally (e.g. Wisse’s
 engagement work with Classics school teachers in the Netherlands, and Santangelo’s overview
 book on the Roman Republic, reviewed in several Italian newspapers in 2019).


 Future strategic aims and goals: the UoA’s expansion presents us with a distinctive set of
 opportunities and challenges. The key aim of our 2021-2028 strategy is to sustain our trajectory
 of growth and increasing international visibility. We currently have a relatively high number of
 colleagues who will reach mid-career stage during the next cycle: a crucial priority will be to


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support them in scoping new ambitious questions, securing substantial external funding that will
 enable them to produce major pieces of research. This set of interrelated objectives will have
 substantial benefits to the collective research environment and its wider profile, and to the career
 development and progression of individual colleagues.
         We see scope for new joint endeavours in the five areas where we have identified potential
 for collaborative work, and intend to engage more robustly with the work of the Research Strands
 in our School, notably with History, in two key connections: in the collective drive towards further
 opening up the teaching and research agenda at HCA to the insights yielded by postcolonial
 methodologies, and in the scoping of new research projects aligned with the UN Sustainable
 Development Goals, on which a number of programmes (notably GCRF) are funded. In the latter
 connection, we plan to engage more closely with research in other sections of the University,
 notably the Global Challenges Academy (cf. ILES 2.2.5).
         We will further develop collaborative projects involving colleagues within the Unit, such as
 the commentary on Sallust’s Jugurthine War jointly authored by Wisse and Santangelo (under
 contract with CUP) and the volume on the power of origins edited by Vergados and Walter, based
 on a conference held at Newcastle in 2019 with the support of the Humboldt Foundation.
         We also plan to further our international connections, notably in three directions: by
 maintaining our European ties through our connections with the British Schools at Athens and
 Rome; by nurturing the connections with colleagues and institutions in Brazil and Argentina that
 we forged through the Newton Advanced Fellowships; and by deepening developing ties with
 Chinese institutions, notably in Greek Literature and Roman Law.
         We intend to expand our PGR community, both through our continued involvement with
 the Northern Bridge DTP and through studentships associated with major research grants, notably
 those offered by the European Commission under Horizon Europe and by the Leverhulme Trust.
 It will be critical to preserve its diversity and international dimension in the post-Brexit context, and
 the range and quality of our connections will play a significant role. We will further our collaboration
 with non-HE institutions in the North East and beyond to scope new CDA projects. We remain
 committed to ensuring a central role for our PGR community in our research practice and culture,
 and to further our standing as an attractive destination for early career researchers.
         We will strengthen our research infrastructure by remaining engaged in the development
 of the University Library, its digital collections, and its distinctive archival holdings. We will nurture
 our research environment through a lively and diverse programme of seminars, and by keeping
 momentum on the series of conferences and research events that we have developed in the
 second part of the cycle. We will keep making a distinctive contribution to the furthering of the
 Open Research agenda, both at Unit- and at University-wide level (cf. ILES 2.3.3), notably through
 our involvement with established and emerging publishing operations.
 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development; Equality, Diversity and Inclusion


                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The expansion during this REF cycle was largely made possible by major institutional investment
 from which the Unit benefited from 2016 to 2018, which was driven by two key considerations:
 sustaining the development of research capacity, and improving the student-staff ratio on our
 taught programmes. We have made T&R appointments that brought expertise in areas that were
 previously not covered in our range: archaic Greek history and material culture, Greek and Latin
 epic, Hellenistic history, the economic and social history of the Roman empire, and the legal and
 administrative history of Late Antiquity. As a result of these strategic choices, our research base
 is wider and more diverse than it has ever been.
        Staff development and training are essential to the development of the Unit’s research
 priorities. Newcastle University was one of the first Universities to have been awarded the HR
 Excellence in Research Award in 2010, which has been renewed twice during this REF cycle. The
 University has since worked on furthering the implementation of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers (cf. ILES 3.2.3). At Unit level, the appointment of a number
 of new colleagues, some of early-career status and some new to UK HE, made the establishment
 of effective support systems a key priority. Moreover, we have made a strategic decision of
 embedding work on this issue in the School’s submission for the Athena SWAN Bronze Award,
 which was awarded in May 2020, and in which Stocks had a crucial role in her capacity as
 Academic Lead of the AS Self-Assessment Team.
        The AS submission provided an invaluable opportunity to reflect on our practice at School
 level and to identify key action points in the short to medium-term, over a 2021-2028 horizon,
 notably in five areas that require interrelated action at both School and Subject level: structures
 and operations, including a commitment to reaching gender balance on School committees within
 three years; collegial work practices, envisaging a rescoping of the induction process and new
 support schemes for childcare costs incurred by staff undertaking university-based duties; staff
 recruitment, restating our commitment to equitable gender representation on appointment panels
 and to mandatory unconscious bias training for all members; promotion and career progression;
 mentoring arrangements; and research culture and infrastructure. In this connection, we will place
 even greater emphasis on supporting female staff in scoping funding applications through a culture
 of one-to-one advice and support from current grant holders, and the ambition to significantly
 increase the share of funding applications submitted by women. A key priority in the next REF
 cycle will be to support early and mid-career colleagues in our UoA on a pathway towards scoping
 successful promotion applications. Work in this respect will entail sustained action both at Unit
 and School level, and will involve developing existing mentoring structures.
        Our ongoing work on EDI strategies does indeed build upon and intensifies an established
 track-record of good practices that have been developed and implemented at institutional level
 throughout the REF cycle (cf. ILES 3.4). The University offers a Returner Support Programme
 funding a phased return to full teaching duties for colleagues who took a period of parental or other
 extended leave because of caring responsibilities, hence enabling them to regain research


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 momentum (cf. ILES 3.4.2): in 2019/20 a colleague from the UoA received support from that
 scheme. Each member of staff goes through a Performance and Development Review (PDR), in
 which their record of achievement and short- to mid-term planning are discussed in detail, and
 pathways towards promotion are proactively explored as a matter of course. Moreover, since
 2015/16 we introduced a Personal Research Planning exercise (PRP) that provides the
 opportunity for colleagues to focus on their research trajectory, and has a less tightly formalized
 framework than the PDR: its aim is to offer mentoring and understand what support will be needed
 to achieve each colleague’s research goals. This annual process is managed by the School
 Director of Research.
        A Workload Allocation Model keeps a detailed and transparent record of the distribution of
 duties, and acknowledges extra tariffs for the preparation of new modules by early career
 colleagues. All research-active staff, including colleagues on part-time contracts, are entitled to
 one semester of paid research leave in seven semesters (improved in 2016/2017 from one in
 eight). This arrangement has been retained even during the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 All UoA members have benefited from institutional leave during this cycle. A final report of the
 outcomes is presented to the School and Faculty. Members who have held a substantial
 administrative role are entitled to an extra semester of research leave. Moreover, one day a week
 during term time is kept free from teaching duties.
        In the first two years of their appointment each member of staff is assigned a mentor, with
 whom they discuss their research and teaching trajectory on a regular basis; the option of being
 assigned a mentor, even beyond the School, is open to colleagues regardless of their career
 stage. We have a strong culture of seeking informal feedback from colleagues on drafts of working
 papers; the establishment of our internal Work-in-Progress series (see below) has further
 buttressed it.
        We hold weekly Subject Meetings, chaired by the Subject Head, with pre-circulated
 agendas and full sets of minutes. Research matters at UoA level are entrusted to a Sub-Committee
 of the School Research Committee. An annual School Away Day affords the opportunity for
 intensive discussion on the wider Research and Impact strategy, both at School and Unit level.
 Information workshops on external funding are organized at School level on an annual basis; these
 complement the programme of the ‘Getting those Grants’ workshops organized by the Faculty
 Research and Innovation Office.
        Since October 2017 we have also been running an Ancient History Work-in-Progress
 seminar, which convenes every Thursday during term-time and is intended for the presentation
 and informal discussion of ongoing research problems. The seminar has proved both an important
 training venue for research students and a valuable opportunity for Newcastle staff to learn more
 about the research of colleagues. Moreover, since 2019 a weekly lunchtime seminar has been
 organized at HCA to support the discussion of interdisciplinary research and enhance
 collaboration across the three Subject areas.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Career progression: the University has detailed and transparent promotion criteria. Promotion
 prospects are discussed in the PDR (see above); information workshops are convened at Faculty
 level ahead of each annual promotion round, and advice and guidance is available on an individual
 basis from the Head of School. Four T&R colleagues were promoted during this cycle: Phillippo
 and Stocks to Senior Lecturer (2015 and 2020 respectively); Santangelo to Senior Lecturer
 (2014) and later to Professor (2018); Vergados to Professor (2020). Waite, who is on a T&S
 contract, was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020.
 Postdoctoral researchers: the Unit has been making a sustained and successful effort to attract
 postdoctoral scholars and involve them in the continuing development of its research environment.
 We have secured three externally funded postdoctoral fellowships during this cycle: East and
 Gullo as Leverhulme ECF (2015-2018 and 2020-2023 respectively), and Luciani as MSCA Fellow
 (2016-2018). Moreover, we secured a fellowship in the highly competitive Research Excellence
 Academy scheme launched at Newcastle University (Matijašić, 2017-2020). These colleagues
 have joined a growing community of postdoctoral researchers across HCA, and have made
 distinctive contributions to the widening of the range of expertise and interests at Unit level: in the
 history and epigraphy of the Roman Empire (Luciani), in Late Antique and Byzantine culture
 (Gullo, Matijašić), and in classical scholarship and tradition (East). They have also been involved
 in the running of high-profile research events. A key priority has been to support our postdoctoral
 researchers in developing a wide set of professional skills, not confined to the research domain.
 They have also been encouraged to make contributions to our UG offer with research-led modules
 (notably on ancient geography, the Roman city, and the Republican tradition). One of them (East)
 has since secured a permanent position in the History UoA at Newcastle (2019); another (Luciani)
 held a two-year lecturing appointment in our Unit after the end of his MSCA Fellowship. The
 Leverhulme Visiting Professorship awarded to Agosti (Rome La Sapienza) in 2019/20 brought
 further momentum to the development of Late Antiquity studies, notably through the organization
 of a conference with Vergados (2019), as well as consolidating existing ties with La Sapienza.
 Moreover, the Unit hosted a number of scholars based at other institutions in Continental Europe
 (from Leiden, Heidelberg, Venice, Turin, Milan, and Bari), who elected Newcastle as their base for
 a short-term visit to the UK.


 PGR students: training and supervision
 Our postgraduate community is central to the development of the Unit, to its long-term
 sustainability, and to its contribution to the subject. As of July 2020 it consists of 8.0 FTEs. Our
 PGR completions have more than doubled across this REF cycle: from 5.75 to 13.57 FTEs. We
 pride ourselves on the diverse mix of our PGR community, which includes both students who
 completed their BA and MA at Newcastle and candidates who took their first degrees in
 Continental Europe. Our MA in Classics and Ancient History reflects a comparable degree of
 diversity, and routinely enrolls students who do not have a Classics background at BA level.


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Each PGR student is assigned a supervisory team at application stage. The expertise fit is
 the key consideration, but other factors also play a crucial role. At least one member of the team
 must have supervised to successful completion another candidate; moreover, we seek to enable
 Early Career colleagues on permanent contracts to develop supervisory experience as soon as
 possible. Whenever possible, the supervisory teams of AHRC-funded students include a
 colleague from Durham or Queen’s University Belfast, the other two institutions of the Northern
 Bridge DTP where Classics and Ancient History are taught. The supervisory relationship is
 regulated by the University’s Code of Practice for Research Degrees, which complies with the
 highest standards in the sector. The main supervisor will typically ensure twelve formal meetings
 a year; the team meets thrice a year. In practice, however, supervisors have an open-door policy.
 Records of each formal meeting are held on an e-portfolio portal, and a formal annual review
 process takes place between April and June. Best practice in research supervision is a strategic
 priority at HCA: the PGR Director runs an information workshop for supervisors at the start of each
 academic year, and similar events are routinely held by the Graduate School. In 2019 Santangelo
 was granted a Senior Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy in recognition of his experience
 in doctoral supervision.
        Shortly after registration PGR students attend a series of Induction events, both at School
 and Faculty level; at the start of each academic year, they formally review their training needs with
 their supervisors. Language tuition – a key requirement in our field – is provided in-house (for
 Greek and Latin) or at other Schools (Modern Languages). Pastoral issues are handled by the
 School PGR Director, who also manages a fund providing ad hoc support to PGR and PGT
 students (regardless of registration or funding status), typically for conference attendance,
 participation in training events, and copy-editing expenses. At School level we regularly convene
 training sessions for PGRs, with a strong focus on career development (e.g. on academic
 publications; postdoctoral funding available in the UK and internationally; the job market in
 academia and beyond). The Northern Bridge DTP has its own training budget and organizes a
 series of research development events that are also open to self-funded students.
        Our weekly research seminars (see Section 4) are the prime opportunity for interaction and
 dialogue among staff and PGRs. We also further it through staff participation at the weekly
 Postgraduate Forum, and through close involvement with the annual Postgraduate Forum
 Conference, which is organized every Spring by a group of PGR students and attracts speakers
 from the UK and overseas. Moreover, our PGR community has taken the lead in organizing events
 of national significance: both an established setup like the Annual Meeting of Postgraduates in
 Ancient History (AMPAH, 2016) and a new initiative like the Northern Lights Workshop (whose
 second edition was due to take place at Newcastle in April 2020 and has now been postponed to
 May 2021). Our PGR environment has been enriched by the presence of a number of visiting
 students from overseas who spent extended periods at Newcastle, typically under external
 supervisory arrangements (from La Plata, Pisa, UNIRIO, Rome Tor Vergata, Venice).


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         In the final part of the cycle, some members of our PGR community have played a leading
 role in convening two conferences at Newcastle, respectively on Gramsci and the ancient world
 (2017) and on Writing Ancient History in the Interwar Period (2020). In 2018 the organisers of the
 Gramsci conference (Borrello, Ciucciovè, Zucchetti) were central to the establishment of an
 international Gramsci Network, which has since convened a number of research events (at the
 Institute of Classical Studies in London, 2018 and 2019). In 2019 the Gramsci Network received
 a Pioneer Award from the NU Humanities Research Institute, which will enable the organisation
 of two workshops in 2021, respectively on ‘Class and Classics. Historiography, Reception,
 Challenges: Towards a Democratisation of Classical Studies’, and ‘Power, Coercion, and
 Consent: Hegemony and the Roman Republic’. Several of our PhD students published papers in
 prestigious journals (Quaderni di Storia, Religions of the Roman Empire, and Zeitschrift für
 Papyrologie und Epigraphik) during their time at Newcastle. An edited book based on the Gramsci
 conference will appear with Routledge in 2021.
         The quality of our PGR provision is confirmed by the professional trajectories of our
 research students after graduation. Nicholson secured a permanent lectureship at Exeter (2017);
 Mowat held a teaching post at Sheffield (2018-2020); Zucchetti has been awarded the Germanicus
 Scholarship of the Roman Society (2020). Other PhD alumni hold positions in the Civil Service
 and in the Heritage sector. Our PGRs are typically encouraged to gain teaching experience from
 their second year, having completed a one-day induction event in the first year: their involvement
 is coordinated and overseen by a designated member of staff, who also plays a general mentoring
 role. Students often contribute to modules with which their supervisors are not involved; that
 provides a further valuable opportunity for staff and PGR to interact and learn from one another.
 Review and feedback sessions are provided throughout the teaching term by the relevant module
 convenor, and the option of working towards a formal Advance HE qualification is available
 through the Organisational Development Unit.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 The UoA identified the increase and diversification of its external research income as a central
 priority in the current REF cycle. We promoted a culture in which external research funding is
 sought as a matter of usual practice, and we received significant financial support from the HaSS
 Faculty to enable the completion of significant pieces of research and the scoping of major grants.
 Advising newly appointed junior colleagues in seeking external funding is a central feature of a
 supportive and collaborative climate within the Unit. This strategy has yielded significant results
 (see above, Section 1) and will be pursued further in the next cycle; widening the pool of successful
 PIs will be a key priority.
 In this cycle, members of the Unit have secured funding from a range of external bodies: the
 Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy, Arts Council England, the European Commission, the
 Natural Environment Research Council, the Humboldt Foundation, and the Einstein Center


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chronoi in Berlin. We have also secured small grants from the Institute of Classical Studies in
 London for the running of two conferences. The funding we have obtained has enabled both the
 arrangement of buy-out from teaching through individual fellowships (Creese, Walter) and the
 long-term association of the Unit with postdoctoral scholars (Santangelo, Vergados), which in
 turn has enabled the creation of further critical mass and the establishment of new international
 ties. Stocks’ involvement with the Arts Council England project on a gaming app based on the
 Vindolanda site has enabled the development of an ICS and shown a valuable instance of effective
 integration with an interdisciplinary research team.


 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Each member of staff, including colleagues on PT or temporary contracts, has access to a
 Personal Research Allowance, currently set at £900 p/a. This sum is increased by a small
 percentage in proportion with the amount of external income a colleague has sought. A fund
 managed by the School Research Committee supports workshops and research events, as well
 as subsidising indexing and reproduction fees. The Head of School’s Discretionary Fund supports
 specific initiatives, such as seed corn events on early stage projects.
        Ideas for external funding applications, at various stages of inception, are typically
 discussed in the PRP context, and the Faculty Research and Innovation Office offers advice on
 the early scoping of a project. Draft applications go through an internal peer-review process,
 typically involving two readers and a set of feedback from a Faculty Research Funding
 Development Manager. The School Finance Office has a strong track-record in supporting
 research projects throughout their development, from the costing stages to the closing of the
 account.
        Along with the logistical and financial support available at School level, there is a
 significant measure of support from the Faculty: Bid Preparation Grants (up to £10k) are
 available to support the drafting of any application beyond £200,000; the completion of major
 pieces of research and the development of Impact projects are supported by the Faculty Research
 and Impact Fund (£1-4k), which also provides teaching relief where appropriate. During this cycle
 colleagues from the UoA have received support for over £45,000 from these three schemes.
 Moreover, the University offers a wide set of professional development activities through its
 Organisational Development Unit. New members of staff are required to take the Postgraduate
 Certificate in Academic Practice, which includes a module on research leadership.
        The Unit is based in the newly refurbished Armstrong Building, the historic hub of the
 Newcastle University campus. All the T&R colleagues have their office spaces there, while
 postdoctoral fellows are based in the neighbouring Old Library Building, along with those from the
 two other Subject Areas represented at HCA. The Postgraduate Suite, where research students
 have a workspace, is also in the Armstrong Building. Constant interaction between staff and PGRs
 is a key aspect of our day-to-day research environment.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         The centerpiece of our research infrastructure is the Philip Robinson University Library,
 which houses over 800,000 books, and provides access to ca. 1.8m e-books, ca. 42,000 e-journal
 titles, and major online research resources, including the Brepols Library of Latin Texts Online,
 the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae, the Loeb Classical Library, and the Brill New Jacoby and Jacoby
 Continued series. The Library also ensures a dedicated book ordering stream to PG students. The
 bequest of the library of the late Professor G.B.A. Fletcher, which consists of 2,175 titles and was
 fully catalogued in 2015, has led to substantial expansion in textual criticism and the history of
 classical scholarship. In 2018 the purchase of a private collection of books via the Institute of
 Classical Studies has expanded the papyrology holdings of the Library, further supporting work
 on Roman Egypt in the UoA. We continue to benefit from the expert and dedicated involvement
 of the Library staff; the Arts and Humanities Liaison Librarian attends our UG and PG Boards of
 Studies, fielding concerns and suggestions from staff and students, and is involved with the
 Induction Programme for PGR students.
         The collections of the GNM are a major and distinctive asset of Newcastle Classics and
 Ancient History, and have long been bringing together our teaching and research expertise. The
 Shefton Collection has been the focus of important Impact work, partly represented in the ICS led
 by Waite; the unique holdings on the archaeology of Hadrian’s Wall and the history of Roman
 Britain are invaluable resources that feed into our teaching and crucially underpin our Impact and
 Engagement strategy.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 We are strongly committed to supporting the development of the discipline and its specific subject
 areas, both nationally and in the wider international context. We are closely involved in the fabric
 of the scholarly community: we organize research seminars and conferences, deliver invited
 lectures all over the world, serve on editorial boards, advise academic publishers, review research
 funding applications, and take part in the life of subject associations and learned societies. Our
 relationships with non-HEI partners fundamentally shape our research environment, sustain our
 commitment to the public understanding of our subject and its benefits, and define our contribution
 to the economy and society.
         We convene a weekly research seminar that takes place every Wednesday during term-
 time and has brought to Newcastle over 100 external speakers since 2013/2014, many from
 overseas institutions, effectively representing the range, diversity, and complexity of the subject.
 It is open to all staff and students, as well as the general public, and has a well-established tradition
 of intensive and inclusive discussion. In 2019 the starting time was moved forward from 5pm to
 4pm in order to facilitate attendance for participants with parental and caring responsibilities. After
 the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, in Spring 2020, the seminar morphed into an online
 lunchtime series, which gave colleagues valuable opportunities to continue engagement with
 research at a time of unprecedented pressures.



                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         During this REF cycle colleagues from the UoA have been involved with the organisation
 of fourteen international conferences and workshops: eight in Newcastle and six overseas, in
 Rome, Charlottesville, Rio de Janeiro, and São Paulo. Members of the UoA have given invited
 talks in the UK and abroad (including France, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Poland, Serbia,
 the US, Brazil, Argentina, South Africa, and China), and have held research fellowships and
 visiting professorships overseas (Santangelo at the University of South Africa, Pretoria in 2015
 and at Brescia in 2018; Walter at the Einstein Centre Chronoi in Berlin in 2020).
         Our staff lead or are involved with a number of research collaborations. Wisse was a
 member of the Advisory Board of the ERC-funded Fragments of Roman Republican Orators at
 Glasgow University (2012-2017). From 2018 Creese has served on the Advisory Board of the
 AHRC-funded project on Late Roman artefacts from Egypt in the Petrie Collection (London). He
 has also collaborated with P. Destrée (Louvain) on a project on the aesthetics of music in Greek
 and Roman antiquity; they convened two workshops in 2016 and 2017 (at UCLouvain and
 Newcastle respectively). The continuing success of Histos has been made possible by the
 collaboration of Newcastle staff (Santangelo as editorial secretary and reviews editor, and Smith
 and Wisse as editorial board members) with colleagues at other institutions (Florida State
 University, Stanford, and Oxford). Santangelo has also been involved with the establishment of
 a new OA journal, History of Classical Scholarship, in partnership with L. Calvelli (Venice). Both
 journals are testimony to the Unit’s commitment to the free dissemination of scholarly knowledge,
 and received crucial financial support from Newcastle University (averaging £2k p/a).
         Unit staff are committed to the development of the research base and serve on the
 governing and advisory bodies of subject associations and research institutions. Corcoran has
 been a Member of Council and Trustee of the Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies (2018-
 2021) and is a Steering Committee Member and Trustee of the British Epigraphy Society (2014-
 2022); in 2019 he convened its successful Spring General Meeting at the GNM. Since 2016 he
 also serves on the Finance and Personnel Committee of the British Institute at Ankara. Skinner
 has been a member of the Council of the British School at Athens (2017-2020) and sits on the
 Council of the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies (2019-2022). Santangelo and
 Vergados have served on the Classical Association Journals Board (2015-2018 and 2019-2022
 respectively). Wisse has been on the Board of Governors of the JACT Summer School Trust since
 2015.
         Members of the Unit have acted as reviewers of applications to a number of research
 funding   agencies,   including   the   AHRC,    the   European    Commission,      the   Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft, the Humboldt Foundation, the European Science Foundation, the
 British Council, the Nederlandse Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek, the Irish
 Research Council, the Italian Ministry of University and Research, the National Science Centre of
 Poland, and the Israel Science Foundation. They have assessed tenure and promotion
 applications in the UK, Continental Europe, North America, and Australia.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Our commitment to contributing to the development of the next generation of classicists
 and ancient historians (see Section 2) is further evidenced by our involvement as PhD external
 examiners in the UK (Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, Oxford, Royal Holloway) and overseas (Pisa,
 Rome La Sapienza, San Marino, Turin). Members of the Unit have also been acting as referees
 for academic publishers (including Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press, Brill,
 Bloomsbury, Brill, Edinburgh University Press, and Routledge) and have refereed submissions to
 ca. 40 journals (including Athenaeum, Classical Journal, Classical Quarterly, Historia, Journal of
 Hellenic Studies, Mnemosyne, Philologus, Transactions of the American Philological Association).
 They serve on the advisory boards of book series (at Brill, Edizioni Quasar, ETS, Le Monnier,
 Vandenhoek & Ruprecht) and scholarly journals (e.g. L’Antiquité tardive; Early Science and
 Medicine; Greek and Roman Musical Studies; Histos; Journal of Late Antiquity; Politica Antica;
 Roman Legal Tradition). The research of members of the UoA has received prestigious
 international recognition. Wisse was elected to the Academia Europaea in 2014. Santangelo was
 elected Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 2017 and Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries in
 2019; his contribution to the academic and cultural relations between the UK and Italy was marked
 by the award of the title of Cavaliere dell’Ordine della Stella d’Italia by the President of Italy in
 2017.
         The partnerships with the GNM and the Vindolanda Trust are strategic priorities that inform
 our ICS (see Section 1) and are part of a wider commitment to forming significant ties with other
 culture stakeholders in the North East and beyond. Phillippo has collaborated since 2016 with
 English Heritage in the creation of new visitor material on the neoclassical site of Belsay Hall
 (Northumberland); in 2020 she and Waite scoped an online exhibition on the influences of
 Classical literature and Greek archaeology on Charles Monck, the founder of the estate, in
 partnership with the GNM and with the support of an Engagement Award of the Institute of
 Classical Studies. Since 2016 Phillippo has also been doing archival work on the papers of
 Rosemary Sutcliff at Seven Stories, the National Centre for Children’s Books. In 2019 an
 interdisciplinary team led by Santangelo secured an AHRC-funded Collaborative Doctoral Award
 in partnership with the Literary and Philosophical Society at Newcastle, with the aim of developing
 the first full-scale study of the records on the Society’s early history. Stocks and Vergados led
 classes on Greek and Roman dining at the Newcastle restaurant Blackfriars, building on their
 collaborative work on a Stage 3 course (2018). In November 2019, an MoU between HCA and the
 Dutch National Museum for Antiquities (Rijksmuseum van Oudheden) formalised several ongoing
 research projects – notably an international exhibition on the emperor Domitian to be held in
 Leiden and Rome in 2021 and 2022, with Stocks as co-curator – and future initiatives, including
 educational projects and digital games and apps, that will be mutually beneficial to the
 sustainability of our discipline and the Heritage sector in the UK and internationally.
         This broad set of activities and collaborations is testimony to the international dimension
 of our work, the standing that it has achieved, its strong societal ethos, and its further potential


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 significance and impact. We see it as an integral aspect of the collaborative and civic ethos of
 our research, and to the diversity and range of our Unit. Our University’s Vision & Strategy for
 2018-2025 is summarised under the heading ‘From Newcastle. For the World’ (cf. ILES 2.1). The
 work we do at Classics and Ancient History is informed by this very spirit: firmly rooted in a specific
 institutional and local setting, and strongly international in outlook and ambition. These two levels
 are fundamentally integrated and mutually reinforced, and will inform and sustain our research
 strategy throughout the next REF cycle.




                                                                                                Page 17
