Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 28

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and Structure
 History at Sussex is collaborative and interdisciplinary by design. We connect with
 communities and institutions beyond the discipline, while maintaining the intellectual value of
 historical analysis in its own terms. We unify our different areas of excellence methodologically
 (through social and cultural history; intellectual history; environmental history and the history of
 science; and critical digital approaches); through our strategic plan (increasing time depth and
 global breadth); and through our purpose (to be embedded in, rather than acting on, the
 community locally, nationally and globally). We make history in partnership with students,
 across clusters, with other disciplines, and with non-HEI collaborators. We aspire to change
 history through the impact of our findings, our approaches, and our public voice.
 We are particularly keen to illuminate overlooked dimensions of the historical process. We have
 delved into the unexplored dynamics shaping the existence of marginal groups, be they
 criminals in early modern London, female political thinkers, or children in twentieth-century
 Britain. We offer nuanced and sociologically rich accounts of how power functions in institutions,
 and how institutions - including archives - change over time. This includes critical engagement
 with higher education. We curate sources, as well as working with them, in partnership with
 other bodies (e.g. Mass-Observation), by creating unique databases (e.g. Global Income
 Inequality), and through the establishment of new archives (e.g. The Archive of Resistance
 Testimony).
 The unit of assessment comprises the Department of History. We have grown by nearly a third
 since 2014, from 24 members to 31 (30.1FTE), and have increased the proportion of female
 staff from 29% to 39%. Our strategic aims for REF2014 were to shape fields of study; build
 collaborative and interdisciplinary research; recruit and foster the careers of high-quality
 research students; and grow external partnerships. Our progress towards these goals is outlined
 below. We have kept these objectives under constant review, adapting them to reflect the vision
 of an expanding department. These modifications are detailed in the strategy section. Since
 2014 we have published 27 monographs, 129 articles, 92 chapters, 19 edited collections, 3
 datasets and 10 special issues. We have been awarded 46 different grants totalling £2,616,494
 in award value, received £1,572,260 through donations and a further £46,577 from internal
 funding competitions. We have supervised 41 research degrees to completion and have
 employed 12 postgraduate research assistants.
 We have invested in three particular areas:
    •   Increasing global scope through the appointments Rietzler (US International and
        Transnational History); Tal (the Yossi Harel Chair in Israel Studies established through a
        donation of £1m); and Francis (currently working on Empire).
    •   Strengthening early modern history through the appointments of Kounine and Paul.
    •   Creating a new research strand in digital history supported by two lectureships and a
        Chair (Baker, Hitchcock, and Sharon Webb). Hitchcock and Baker also add to our
        temporal depth.
 We privilege methodological diversity. Some of us pursue investigator-led discovery research
 within the lone scholar tradition, supported by fellowships and internally funded leave. Alongside
 this, work in our emerging areas - transnational history, childhood and youth, activism and
 resistance, emotions and subjectivity, and digital memory and heritage - is rooted in
 collaboration and operates as a series of substantial programmes. This includes Cook and Clive
 Webb’s work on British views of the US; Robinson and Warne’s research into subcultures; and
 Barron and Siebrecht’s project, Parenting and the State in Britain and Europe, c.1870-1950
 (2017). We have co-authored over 70 publications, often collaborating across career points as
 seen in pieces by Cofield (a PhD student) and Robinson; Geiringer (a research assistant) and

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Baker; and Winterbottom (our British Academy Fellow) and Damodaran. In ensuring fuller
 support and recognition for collaboration as the emerging scholarly norm, we build on the
 approaches of staff who innovate in other ways. Rather than seeing a tension between
 collaboration and lone scholarship, we view them as complementary practices.
 The unit started this REF period as the largest department within the School of History, Art
 History and Philosophy (HAHP). We shaped the intellectual vision and day-to-day practices of
 HAHP through School Directorships (Davies - Admissions; Barron and Schecter - Student
 Support; Endersby and Warne - Teaching and Learning; Langhamer and Wolf - Doctoral
 Students; Langhamer - Research and Enterprise), as Deputy Head of School (Langhamer) and
 Head of School (Clive Webb). Historians played other key roles including as Research Ethics
 Officer (Baker, Jünger) and Equalities Officer (Damodaran, Sharon Webb). We have also
 contributed to the wider University environment: Hitchcock as Director of the Sussex Humanities
 Lab; Robinson as Director of Research Staff Development; Follett as Deputy Pro-Vice
 Chancellor for International Strategy; and Damodaran as chair of the BME attainment gap group.
 We have used these service roles to actively create a research environment in which the unit
 can flourish, but we also see service - at Sussex, within our discipline, and for the sector - as
 crucial to the vitality and sustainability of our collective research culture.
 The Department ends the REF period in the much larger School of Media, Arts and Humanities
 (MAH). This is a bottom-up merger, proposed in 2019 by the Schools of HAHP, English, Media,
 Film and Music and the Centre for Language Studies. Historians have been instrumental in
 developing its research environment: Langhamer as a Director of Research; Wolf as a Director
 of Doctoral Students. MAH allows us to collaborate at scale, building on pre-existing
 partnerships, particularly around cultural, experiential, and digital history. Hitchcock’s work with
 Hendy on ‘BBC Connected Histories’ shows the potential here, but it is also now easier to work
 with early modernists in English (e.g. Hadfield and Dimmock), cultural theorists in Media Studies
 (e.g. Highmore and Lacey), and oral historians (e.g. Jolly). A planned MAH Institute of Research
 and Social Engagement will provide an enhanced infrastructure for interdisciplinary projects and
 partnerships.
 There have been other major innovations. The Keep Archive opened in November 2013 and
 houses the University’s Special Collections, East Sussex Record Office and the Brighton and
 Hove Local History Collection. The new on-campus Attenborough Centre for the Creative
 Arts (ACCA) provides a public venue for some of the unit’s impact and engagement work. The
 Sussex Humanities Lab (SHL) - in which historians played a founding role - is woven through
 each of our intellectual clusters building new methodological connections that transcend
 temporality and geography.
 Historians at Sussex are clustered along flexible geographic and methodological axes and within
 interdisciplinary research centres. These report to the Departmental Research Committee (DRC)
 which leads on strategy and manages resources in partnership with a School Research
 Committee (SRC). The clusters provide a collaborative space for developing ideas in order to
 facilitate the shaping of fields and for growing external partnerships. They organise events
 and come together for the Department-wide research seminar at which our doctoral students
 regularly present. The latter are also situated within overlapping structures including our clusters
 and centres, the Sussex Doctoral School, and the Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts
 South-East (CHASE). CHASE facilitates the recruitment of high-quality research students,
 whilst the Doctoral School fosters their future career development.
 The British History cluster excels in research that uses life histories to re-imagine what history
 from below might encompass. It has a close relationship with The Keep and the Mass-
 Observation Archive. Since REF2014 there has been a particular emphasis on digital
 methodologies. Robinson continues to shape historical approaches to the 1980s by broadening
 the beneficiaries of the online resource, Observing the 80s, whilst Hitchcock’s collaboration on
 The Digital Panopticon allows users to map the life histories of Old Bailey convicts across more
 than 50 datasets. This project forms one of the unit’s Impact Case Studies. His co-authored
 book, London Lives (2015), embodies both our focus on histories of the marginalised and our


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commitment to open access. An electronic edition is freely available via the project website and
 provides direct links to the evidentiary base.
 The collection, presentation, and analysis of life histories – with a focus on French, German and
 Italian history - is also a key facet of work in European History. An Archive of Resistance
 Testimony was launched by Warne in 2014, and houses interviews with French resistance and
 Special Operations Executive (SOE) members. A linked ‘Lysander Flights’ project has
 developed innovative digital methods to curate and map historical data relating to clandestine
 SOE missions. The Sussex Centre for German-Jewish History (CGJH), directed by Reuveni
 and Wolf, has also supported archive development by cataloguing and digitizing family papers
 donated by Jewish émigrés and refugees. The Centre sits within our newly established Sussex
 Weidenfeld Institute of Jewish Studies to which the appointment of a DAAD Professor of
 European and Jewish History in Autumn 2020 (Steffen), whose specialism is eastern Europe,
 adds further geographical reach.
 We understand global history to be an object of study and an inherently interdisciplinary
 approach. We map global connections, and reconfigure them, by working across regional and
 disciplinary boundaries. Our Middle East and North Africa Centre at Sussex was established
 by historians in 2014 but now has University-wide membership; Marinelli’s leadership role in the
 Sussex Asia Centre draws together the humanities and social sciences. We work with
 communities and institutions as well as on them and have tried to add substance to the
 decolonization project through the repatriation of knowledge. Marinelli has co-produced
 knowledge about landscape and space with Chinese artists; Baker’s collaboration on ‘The
 Making African Connections Digital Archive’ (P-I McGregor, Geography) explores decolonial
 possibilities with local museums; Damodaran’s Centre for World Environmental History
 (CWEH) collaborates with activists and non-HEIs in the Global South to democratize
 environmental history. This work forms the basis of another of the unit’s Impact Case Studies.
 Our work in American History is also geographically expansive and excels in tracing the
 movement of ideas and people across time and space. We have particular strengths in the
 history of race and racism. Angelo and Davies have explored different aspects of Black activism
 in their monographs, Black Power on the Move (2021) and Mainstreaming Black Power (2017).
 The latter won the Richard E. Neustadt book prize and was shortlisted for the Gladstone Prize.
 Another prizewinning book, Cook’s Civil War Memories (2017), represents a complementary
 focus on memory, race, and the uses of history, whilst Clive Webb’s transnational work on
 violence and the far right ties this cluster to the others.
 Cutting across these broad geographic foci are temporal and methodological groupings from
 which have developed further collaborations. Sussex has longstanding strengths in
 Contemporary History and our transnational MA supports the development of future
 scholarship. The most significant development since REF2014, however, has been the
 strengthening and diversification of our early modern cluster to include Kounine’s work on
 emotions - published as Imagining the Witch in 2018; Baker’s history of the image - The
 Business of Satirical Prints in Late-Georgian England (2017); Hitchcock’s collaboration with
 Shoemaker; and Paul’s work on rhetoric, counsel and temporality (culminating in her 2020
 monograph Counsel and Command in Early Modern Thought). Paul is co-director with McDaniel
 of the Sussex Centre for Intellectual History (SCIH) and Intellectual History offers a further
 grouping that encompasses topics from the c.16th to the c.21st, including Chinese intellectuals
 (Marinelli), philanthropy and international thought (Rietzler), Islamic traditions and institutions
 (Kalmbach) and McDaniel’s expertise in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century political thought.
 The SCIH has forged particular connections with the interdisciplinary Social and Political
 Thought group, of which Schecter is a key member, leading to new readings of the relationship
 between political thought and policy and new approaches to public intellectual discourse.
 Our clusters and groupings cohere around shared values and goals: to balance the global with
 the particular while addressing imbalances of knowledge and power; to nurture and respect
 individual scholarship while facilitating innovative collaboration; and to embrace methodological
 and theoretical originality while valorising rigour and historiographical significance.
 Research and Impact Strategy

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The ambitious strategic aims outlined in REF 2014 have been constantly reviewed in keeping
 with our commitment to reflexive working practices. Further aims have emerged through ongoing
 dialogue between a rapidly changing environment and our own values and aspirations. We have
 worked towards these in the current REF period - as detailed below - and will continue to do so
 in the years ahead. These are:
    1. To continually develop greater thematic and methodological breadth underpinned by a
       shared set of intellectual and ethical values;
    2. To do history on, for, and with the marginalised;
    3. To explore how power functions in institutions and states, and to critically inform
       understandings of, and potential changes to, these institutions and states;
    4. To embed a critical and reflexive approach to the discipline of History and its future
       across all areas of the Department’s work;
    5. To pursue a ‘nose to tail’ open research strategy that makes the historical research
       undertaken by Sussex historians both findable and re-usable;
    6. To make impactful history with non-HEI actors and to deliver change through these
       partnerships in fulfilment of a wider social purpose.
 We have developed thematic and methodological breadth through our emerging areas of
 interest. Some of these were developing in 2014 (e.g. transnational history), some represent an
 expansion into complementary areas (childhood and youth, activism and resistance, digital
 memory, and heritage), and some the building of critical mass (emotions and subjectivity). The
 latter offers a useful example of this strategy in practice. In REF2014 only one member of the
 Department (Langhamer) consistently published in this area. Investment in posts added breadth:
 Kirby - whose monograph on stress, Feeling the Strain, was published in 2019 - brought a social
 scientific perspective; Francis contributed a political and increasingly global slant. Evolving
 research agendas such as Evans’s interest in emotions and decolonization extended this global
 perspective. Collaboration within, and across, clusters added new themes including children’s
 emotions (Barron) and war. The latter was developed through a 2014 British Academy
 conference culminating in Total War: an Emotional History (2020) co-edited by Langhamer,
 Siebrecht and Noakes (Essex), to which Francis also contributed. Kounine’s appointment
 introduced links to the ARC Centre for Excellence for the History of Emotions (Melbourne) and
 the Centre for the History of Emotions (Berlin). Her British Academy event on ‘Subjectivity, Self-
 Narratives and the History of Emotions’ attracted international scholars, including Ute Frevert
 and William Reddy; its ECR masterclass, conducted by Lyndal Roper, Penny Summerfield,
 Thomas Dixon and Langhamer, contributed to the sustainability and vitality of the field. In total,
 seven Sussex historians have published on this theme since 2014, six doctoral students have
 completed theses in the area, and three students will complete in 2021.
 Our commitment to doing history of, for, and with the marginalized is evident across all
 clusters, whether in Robinson’s work on fangirls or Jünger’s study of Jewish responses to Nazi
 persecution. Sussex historians have also explored how power functions in institutions and
 states in order to critically inform understandings of them. Kalmbach’s work exemplifies one
 aspect of this: Islamic Knowledge and the Making of Modern Egypt (2020) explores the
 importance of Arabic and Islamic knowledge to notions of authority, belonging, and authenticity
 within a modernizing Muslim-majority community. Wolf’s examination of Nazi population policy
 and Siebrecht’s study of colonial concentration camps add further dimensions. Tal explains the
 forces that moulded US strategic arms policy during the Cold War whilst Burman’s research on
 evidence-based foreign policy offers an embedded perspective, emerging directly from his
 secondment to the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
 Our developing expertise in pedagogically-led research encourages a critical and reflexive
 approach to the discipline of History across all areas of the Department’s work. Rietzler’s
 work on the interwar ‘history wars’ is a good example, as is Francis’s study of the ghosts of
 Great War historiography. Robinson and Warne’s research on studying 1960s history in a 1960s
 university, and on teaching subcultural theory, add different dimensions, as does their ‘DIY
 Digital’ collaboration with students to create digital toolkits. Baker and Sharon Webb were
 awarded the RHS Innovation in Teaching Prize in 2019 for their achievements in teaching critical

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 digital skills. Baker’s AHRC and British Academy projects on the history of knowledge
 organisation scrutinise the markers of academic authority - documents, archives, and catalogues
 - while his MSCA-funded work with Ries explored the use of digital forensics for analysing born-
 digital sources.
 We pursue a ‘nose to tail’ open research strategy to make our research both findable and re-
 usable. We encourage the posting of research data in a publicly available format with a Creative
 Commons License - CC-BY-0 or CC-BY-NC-ND. Hitchcock’s digital projects make historical
 materials available for direct download and re-use. The data generated are also available for re-
 purposing via dedicated APIs. We have addressed the intellectual challenges of Open Access
 through Sharon Webb’s community archiving projects, Robinson’s reflections on Observing the
 80s, and Baker’s foundational role in the Library Carpentry programme and the Programming
 Historian Project. Our cross-cluster collaborations draw together digital history preservation and
 community involvement, with the aim of using OA data, research, and publications to repatriate
 history. We are committed to going beyond the REF’s Open Access mandate to build openness
 and engagement into all of our work. We believe OA is central to the intellectual health of the
 Department; its impact and engagement with a wider community; and its contribution to both
 scholarship and civil society. Our new location within MAH which hosts REFRAME - an open
 access digital platform for the dissemination of scholarship - further strengthens our OA
 capacity.
 A commitment to impact and public engagement runs through our activities, reflecting our sense
 that history has a wider social purpose. Damodaran and Hitchcock’s Impact Case Studies
 exemplify this approach. Our third Case Study develops out of Endersby’s research on the life
 sciences, including his prizewinning book, Orchid: a Cultural History (2016) and his on-going
 collaboration with the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. Our strategy is to engage, and be engaged
 with, diverse publics in partnership with cultural organisations with the aim of extending access
 to historical source material and findings. This agenda is strikingly evident in Evans’s co-
 curatorship of the acclaimed ‘Paris-Londres Music Migrations,1962-1989’ exhibition at the
 Musée National de l’Histoire de l’Immigration (2019-20), which used an immersive musical and
 visual approach to explore the relationship between migration, music, anti-racism and political
 activism. Our impact strategy facilitates new ways of unlocking cultural assets, preserving
 collections, and working with practitioners to locate their work within broader historical
 conversations.
 Vitality and Sustainability for the Future
 Our commitment to critical digital methodologies and structures for supporting digital research
 proved invaluable during the pandemic: online mentoring, seminars and book launches
 sustained our research community; an online Festival of Doctoral Research and a student-led
 seminar series provided additional support for our PGRs. We also worked with Mass-
 Observation to record life during the pandemic: Langhamer presented early findings in the 2020
 IHR Historical Research Lecture - ‘Writing Histories of 2020’. We continue to monitor the impact
 of Covid-19, especially in relation to EDI, using our research planning mechanisms to support
 individuals and their projects. We maintain an unwavering commitment to the 40:40:20 work
 model and to the importance of internally funded research leave.
 Over the next seven years the unit will pursue the aims outlined above, with the additional, and
 urgent, objective of diversifying our faculty base through the equalities-driven hiring strategy
 addressed in section two below. We believe that who does history is as important as what is
 researched and how it is done. We will further enhance our sustainability by adding to our
 temporal and geographical range through the appointment of early career researchers. Our new
 location in MAH will help us respond in a more timely and agile manner to emerging social
 challenges and bring opportunities to work with new partners.
 MAH provides a new infrastructure for research mentoring (designed to promote EDI) and a peer
 review college for supporting publications and funding applications. The new Institute of
 Research and Social Engagement will build capacity in knowledge exchange, develop MAH’s
 ethos of civic engagement, foster doctoral research and nurture an interdisciplinary culture,
 connecting Sussex researchers to scholars from across the globe. As a result, we will be better

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equipped to address the priorities outlined in the 2019 AHRC delivery plan. We will harness
 cross-school research capacity to find Interdisciplinary solutions to Contemporary
 Challenges such as Environmental Change, Inequality, Migration, the transformation of Work
 and the Digital Economy. We will work across the arts and sciences through continued
 investment in digital humanities, environmental humanities, and the history of science. We will
 work to unlock cultural assets, most notably historical sources and archives, through our
 collaborations with external partners and the creation and provision of scholarly resources (data,
 outputs, and educational resources). And we will have enhanced capacity to develop
 transferable skills in our researchers and PGRs, to progress action on equality, diversity, and
 inclusion, and to embed engagement with publics and public policy within our research
 practices.
 2. People
 Staffing Strategy
 The unit expanded during the present REF period in line with our aim of increasing global scope,
 temporal depth, and expertise in digital history. Our recruitment strategy prioritised appointments
 at lecturer level (Baker, Kirby, Kounine, Paul, Rietzler, Sharon Webb) while strengthening
 research leadership through three professorial appointments (Francis, Hitchcock, Tal). We have
 employed two other lecturers on fixed-term teaching and research contracts (Milewski, US
 history; Serra, economic and global history) and three others through our relationship with the
 DAAD (Siegal, Wuenschmann, and from 2017, Jünger - all in German history). We have hosted
 six postdoctoral fellowships: Gilbert, author of A Shadow on Our Hearts (2018); Gao Hao, now
 Senior Lecturer at Exeter; Kirby; Ries, now Lecturer at University of Texas; Waters, now
 Lecturer at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL); and Winterbottom, author of Hybrid
 Knowledge in the Early East India Company World (2016). We have been home to 12 research
 staff (Banks, Briones, Butterworth, Critchell, Falcini, Geiringer, Holmes, Hoeat-Maxted,
 Reynolds, Searle, Sharples, Teuteberg) and a number of teaching fellows who are fully
 integrated into the scholarly environment.
 The process of intellectual renewal and career progression has seen some departures. Iliffe’s
 appointment as Professor of the History of Science at Oxford encouraged us to re-think our
 History of Science cluster, and Endersby moved into the British history group. The departure of
 Schneider and Gazeley to the London School of Economics (LSE) drew a line under our
 economic history cluster, though its focus on inequality continues to animate the Department’s
 research. The impact of other departures has been amply mitigated by new appointments:
 Francis bolstered the British history cluster following Cragoe’s departure to become a Pro Vice-
 Chancellor at Lincoln; the transition of Angelo and Davies from fixed term to permanent faculty
 has strengthened American history after the loss of Roll to Mississippi.
 Staff Development and Support
 Our staffing strategy is designed to nurture all faculty – but particularly early career faculty –
 through clear processes, targeted mentoring, and the fair allocation of resource. Support is
 offered at Department, School and University level, with accountability, including EDI
 accountability, maintained through committees at each level. We are particularly attentive to the
 challenges of moving beyond PhD research, and have put mentoring in place to support the
 development of ‘the second project’, as well as the preparation of first monographs. Three of our
 REF2014 ECRs have published their doctoral books in this REF cycle; new appointments,
 Kounine and Paul, have also completed books. Norris - also an ECR at REF2014 - received
 mentoring from our digital historians to develop his second project into a successful AHRC
 Leadership Fellowship application.
 We remain mindful of the particular needs of early career researchers. All new appointments
 have a reduced teaching load and ECRs are mentored on career development, publications,
 grant capture, knowledge exchange and PhD supervision (via supervisory teams).We recognise
 that peer-to-peer mentoring can be as transformative as more hierarchical models, and have
 supported the development of a monthly ECR writing group which workshops in-progress book



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chapters and articles. Nine members of the Department are trained mentors and a professional
 coach has also helped colleagues facing particular intellectual and personal challenges.
 Mentoring around promotions has been notably successful. In total nine of those who were
 lecturers in 2014, and three appointed since, are now Senior Lecturers; seven of the Senior
 Lecturers and Readers have become Professors. Where possible we have moved fixed term
 appointees onto permanent contracts (Angelo, Davies, Baker and Sharon Webb) and teaching
 and scholarship appointees onto teaching and research contracts (Kirby).
 Our research is conducted according to the University’s Code of Practice for Research (2019)
 and a robust ethical review process. All history faculty maintain a five-year Personal Research
 Plan. The School Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange (DRKE), the Head of
 Department, and each member of faculty meet yearly to discuss the plan and map support. Our
 leave scheme is responsive to the needs of faculty at different career points and offers space for
 thinking as well as for publications, grants, and impact. Peer review of applications occurs in the
 DRC according to published criteria. The SRC ensures that processes have been followed,
 conducts an equalities audit of awards, and receives post-leave reports. Since 2014, 36% of
 History leaves have been awarded to women and 64% to men, broadly reflecting the gender
 make-up of the Department over time. Between 10-15% of the Department are on internally-
 funded leave at any given time. Kounine, Norris, and Warne also benefitted from a SHL scheme
 of partial teaching buy-out and support in digital methodologies. Faculty are guaranteed at least
 one research day per week in term time to help maintain research activity between sabbaticals
 and to ensure that the 40:40:20 contractual split is meaningful. Research support of up to £500
 per year has been available to all faculty including those on fixed term contracts; this increased
 to £800 for 2020-21. We return 10% of the indirect costs of FEC grants to the investigator’s
 incentive fund. Funding for knowledge exchange activities comes from the School HEIF
 allocation (£24,000 in HAHP; £120,000 in MAH).
 Research planning is supported by University resources framed around identifying, developing,
 producing, and submitting research grant applications; delivering projects; and publicising
 findings. The Research and Enterprise Services (RES) team supports project development and
 awards. A Research Development Officer (Bowyer) holds a weekly surgery in the School and
 works closely with the DRKE on strategy, funding, and process. We support applications from
 the moment of identifying a potential opportunity to a ‘sprint’ in the final stages. The University’s
 Impact Officer (Blackadder) provides strategic guidance on knowledge exchange. The School’s
 Media Relations Manager (Allen) advises on how to work with different publics. We also employ
 a consultant (Lee) to support partnership-building and to map and evidence our impact activity.
 She has worked closely with our case study authors who are allocated dedicated time for this
 activity. Such practical support has enabled History to deepen its partnerships with external
 institutions and communities, including marginalised and hard-to-reach groups.
 We support the research careers of all staff, regardless of their contractual status, through
 appraisal, mentoring, and access to RES. Research staff and their PIs are supported by the
 Office for Research Development and Sussex is aligned with the Concord to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers (it recently had its HR Excellence in Research Award renewed).
 We have a ‘before – during – and after’ approach to career support for research staff, including
 post-doctoral researchers. This includes annual appraisal, support to help transition to the next
 stage of a career and end of contract ‘exit’ interviews. A number of our former teaching fellows
 and research staff now have permanent T&R posts including Edwards (Lecturer in British History
 at Winchester), Searle (Principal Lecturer in History at Brighton) and Thomlinson (Associate
 Professor in History at Reading).
 Research Students
 There are 33 current PhD students in the Department, researching a range of topics from the
 debtors’ sanctuary of Southwark Mint to the emotional dynamics of lesbian community-building.
 Much of their work echoes the Department’s concern with the histories of marginalized groups.
 We also supervise interdisciplinary projects in line with our collaborative agenda. 37 students
 have completed PhDs in history and in American history since 1st August 2013; 9 students
 registered in other departments were co-supervised to completion by historians (Education,

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Media and Film, International Relations, Anthropology, Philosophy and Sociology) and 4
 students completed MPhils. 15 of our students have been funded through the collaborative
 AHRC consortia CHASE, which gained AHRC DTP status in 2013. Other doctoral scholarships
 awarded to historians include the Chancellor’s International Scholarships, the Asa Briggs
 Fellowship, and the Aldred Bader, Morris and Bessie Emanuel, and Clemens Nathan
 Scholarships. We actively encourage, and mentor, applicants from groups that are currently
 underrepresented within the community of historians.
 We work with new PGRs to create supervisory teams that best suit them and their project. Many
 of our students receive dual supervision on a 50:50 basis; where a second supervisor provides a
 more advisory role the relationship is 90:10. Supervisors and students meet at least monthly and
 formally agree meeting records and next steps after each supervision. We timetable key tasks
 such as a skills audit, extended research outline, and expectations questionnaire to clarify roles
 and responsibilities. Our Postgraduate Convener monitors progress, and an annual review
 interview provides an opportunity for discussion beyond the supervisory team. Here any
 supervisory issues can be confidentially addressed, and students gain practice in presenting
 their research to new audiences. The School Director of Doctoral Studies ensures that
 departmental provisions are consistent with university standards. In addition, the Doctoral
 School trains both supervisors and students.
 We fund conference attendance, archive visits and events organization for all our PGRs. CHASE
 students have access to additional funds of £200 per year for research support and up to £1,000
 for training and development. Our students have benefited from further bursaries, e.g. the
 Santander mobility fund to support collaborative work in the United States and Portugal. CHASE
 locates our students within an interdisciplinary and cross-institutional landscape that extends to
 East Anglia, Essex, Kent, the Open University, The Courtauld Institute of Arts, Goldsmiths,
 Birkbeck, and the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) and they benefit from cross-
 institution training programmes. We have co-created workshops (e.g. ‘Languages of the Global:
 Women and International Political Thought’ in 2005), and conferences (e.g. 'Historicising
 Selfhood' in 2018). The bi-annual Encounters conference brings all CHASE students together,
 providing guidance on publishing and discussions around mental health and well-being, as well
 as sessions on student research. Cohort building is key and this function quickly pivoted online
 as the pandemic hit. A monthly e-bulletin ensures that CHASE students feel connected to the
 consortium and to each other.
 We have developed mechanisms that integrate all our doctoral researchers within the broader
 academic community and encourage them to present and publish as they research. We run
 specialist workshops such as SCIH’s masterclass with Professor Bela Kapossy (Lausanne) and
 the CJGH’s biennial Max and Hilde Kochmann Summer School for PhD students in European-
 Jewish history and culture. Our students have contributed to the HAHP annual doctoral
 conference, where there is a strong faculty presence, as well as the University’s Festival of
 Doctoral Research held at the ACCA. Doctoral research at Sussex has continued to be both
 visible and celebrated during the pandemic.
 PGRs receive extensive support to develop professional skills. CHASE students can undertake
 placements as part of their training - Flood worked with Newhaven Town Council and Museum
 to produce a community history of the First World War. They are also trained and employed as
 academic mentors to our undergraduates and as research mentors to second-year students on
 our Junior Research Associate Scheme (JRA). The latter funds a summer of research training
 for those who hope to pursue postgraduate study. Teacher training is provided through the
 Doctoral School’s ‘Starting to Teach’ programme, through close mentoring by faculty, and
 through a new MAH Lecturer Training Programme that teaches discipline-based and broader
 skills through workshops and shadowing.
 The University employs a dedicated careers and employability officer for PGRs, the Sussex
 Research Hive in the library offers bespoke space and training, and Sussex is the host institution
 for the Vitae South East Hub, which provides further professional advice. We encourage our
 students to engage with discipline-specific initiatives, for example by hosting a History Lab Plus
 event in 2014. The move into MAH has built further capacity in PGR training and support,
 helping us to respond to a changing job market and the challenges of working in a Covid-19
                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 landscape. In spring 2020 our doctoral students benefitted from cross-disciplinary forums on
 remote teaching pedagogy and digital research skills.
 We seek to foster self-organisation: PGRs are themselves well positioned to identify their own
 needs and interests and respond to them proactively; this also strengthens cohort identity. We
 support self-organised reading groups and set up a Slack workspace to enable better
 communication. Postgraduate organised events have included ‘History as Feminist Practice’
 (2015), ‘Doing Subcultures’ (2016), and ‘Childhood and Youth’ (2017). PGRs also work through
 the SHL which hosted a postgraduate conference on ‘AI and the Humanities’ in 2018 and a
 ‘Feminist Approaches to Computational Technology Network’ workshop in 2019. We also help
 our PGRs build international networks to enhance the reach of their work, for example through
 our close links with the Universities of Porto and Malmo.
 History PGRs publish both individually and collaboratively and, supported by our press office,
 disseminate their work beyond the academy through journalism and television work (e.g.
 Strimpel) and radio (e.g. Cofield). Since the last REF many of our former doctoral researchers
 have published their first monographs. These include Woolfson’s Holocaust Legacy in Post-
 Soviet Lithuania (2014); Ferreira Campos’ An Oral History of the Portuguese Colonial War
 (2017); Geiringer’s The Pope and the Pill (2020); and Neale’s Photographing Crime Scenes in
 Twentieth-Century London (2020). Neale’s trajectory demonstrates the interdisciplinary nature of
 Sussex’s early career culture. An MA in Contemporary History was followed by a PhD in History
 (co-supervised by a historian and a geographer) and then a Research Fellow position in
 Historical Criminology. Neale currently holds a Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship in the
 Sociology Department to research the institutional memory of hanging and mercy at the Home
 Office.
 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
 As a unit that values work on, for, and with the marginalised we have an absolute commitment to
 EDI, and to mobilising our intellectual commitment for our practices within and beyond the
 Department. Our open research strategy is explicitly framed around access. We are committed
 to the University goals of equality, diversity, accessibility and flexibility as outlined in the 2018
 Inclusive Sussex strategy and supported by Staff Networks for BAME Staff, LGBT+ Staff, Trans
 and non-binary Staff, and for those who have a disability. We have endeavoured to implement
 the recommendations of the Royal Historical Society reports on gender equality (2015 & 2018)
 and on race, ethnicity, and equality (2018) and we welcome the recent report on LGBT+
 equality. This does not mean that we always get things right and our progress towards being a
 truly inclusive department is not as well developed as it should be. While we have acted to
 address historic gender imbalances in recruitment, workload, and promotions, our progress on
 race equality is less impressive, particularly in terms of recruitment. Only 9.7% of our unit’s staff
 self-declare as BME. A key aspect of our staffing policy is to further diversify both our faculty
 base and our community of doctoral students through active intervention in recruitment
 practices. The appointment of a MAH-wide Director for Race Equality and two Deputy Directors
 for Race Equality (one staff-focused and one student-focused) provide focused support here as
 does the University’s work towards a Race Equality Charter award.
 Historians have played key roles within the School and the University to advance EDI. The
 HAHP EDI Officer sat on the Senior Management Team and the University’s Equalities and
 Diversity Forum. The position was held by Damodaran (2014-2018) and by Sharon Webb (2018-
 20). The HAHP EDI Officer linked University initiatives and School/ Department initiatives;
 promoted enhanced diversity training (an online module is mandatory for all); and provided a
 safe first point of call for individuals in need of advice or with reporting concerns. They also
 convened the School Equality and Diversity Committee which developed EDI-focused strategy,
 coordinated faculty participation in the annual Black and LGBT+ history months, and organised
 regular themed events for students and staff. The EDI committee led work on decolonizing the
 curriculum, developed policy on the teaching of material containing racist language, and
 explored best practice for extending recruitment. It liaised with the Staff Wellbeing Action Group
 to collate broader issues for action by the Department and School. Sharon Webb now leads the
 MAH EDI group and represents EDI issues on the MAH Research Committee.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 One area that has seen concerted and successful action in the Department is gender equality.
 We have addressed this through transparency, representation, recruitment, promotion, and
 audit. Addressing gendered work inequalities through transparency in teaching allocation was
 relatively easy; we also developed a clear policy on research grant teaching buy-out to end
 private deal-making. We consistently draw attention to the invisible labour that can be unevenly
 spread across departments, translating an intellectual commitment to analysing emotional labour
 into the Department’s working practices. A lack of female representation within departmental
 management was remedied by Langhamer’s tenure as Head of Department (2013-16) and
 Robinson’s as Head of Department (Research) from 2018 to 2020. Both received mentoring
 before beginning these roles. Women constitute 50% of our new hires, 50% of the Senior
 Lecturers and 39% of the unit. Whilst in 2014 there were no women above the rank of Senior
 Lecturer in the Department, we now have 3 women professors. One is a first-generation scholar;
 one is registered disabled; and one is a woman of colour.
 Some of these successes stem directly from a 2014 HAHP EDI audit of teaching and
 administration loads, procedures for appointment and promotion, and the status of fixed-term
 and part-time staff. The School submitted its Athena SWAN documentation in November 2020.
 The submission was led by male historians, first Davies and later Endersby, and this prevented
 gender initiatives simply adding to women’s workloads.
 Line Managers work with occupational health guidelines to support the additional needs of staff
 and doctoral students with disabilities, ensuring that reasonable adjustments facilitate an
 inclusive workplace and study space. The University aspires to become a Disability Confident
 Leader focusing its digital strategy toward greater accessibility. The Department manages
 workloads according to family friendly policies set out in the Flexible Sussex Handbook. 11
 members of the Department are currently timetabled to teach in ‘family friendly’ hours. We
 welcome part-time working and studying patterns; two members have reduced their contracts (to
 0.6 and 0.5) in this REF period and seven of our doctoral students study part-time. We have a
 clear process for intermission and extensions for our students. We try to support colleague’s
 caring responsibilities, bereavements, and ill health through the humane application of policy –
 including staged return – and a network of pastoral care. We have recently introduced a policy to
 limit email to working hours. We would like to do more. Building on the RHS gender equality
 report we are developing a MAH policy that offers research leave as standard following
 maternity leave (at present we offer a teaching reduction) and makes a returning carers scheme
 available to all.
 Our REF processes adhere to the Sussex University REF2021: Code of Practice which ensures
 fair and transparent REF preparation and the Sussex Code of Practice for Research
 Assessment which understands all quality assessments in relation to their context of production.
 We have prepared for REF in the spirit of the San Francisco Declaration on Research
 Assessment and resist pressure to publish prematurely. We remind ourselves that 4* work is
 often built upon 2* or 3* work. Historians played key roles in University-wide preparation:
 Damodaran and Langhamer sat on the University REF2021 Strategy Group and contributed to
 the University-wide equalities assessment of the impact of REF. The Unit of Assessment Lead
 (Robinson, then Langhamer) received full EDI training delivered by Advance HE. Publications
 were assessed by internal and external assessors. Faculty discussed REF criteria with the
 School DRKE, received feedback on their work, and offered their own assessment of its quality.
 They could, and did, request additional assessments where the feedback seemed unfair or
 misinformed. The scoring of work was confidential to the author, the UoA Lead, the DRKE and
 the University REF team, with the contextual nature of judgements emphasised throughout. The
 final output submission was EDI audited and this identified no significant bias on the basis of
 reported protected characteristics.
 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities
 Income
 In REF 2014 we recorded external research income of £2,055,049; here we report an income of
 £2,616,494 - an increase of 27%. Our externally funded activities are diverse in approach and
 scale, and they reflect the different career stages of our faculty. British Academy Rising Star

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Awards supported the career development of two recent appointments (Kounine and Sharon
 Webb) whilst Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships were awarded to Burman (‘The US and
 the Emerging Powers: transitions to a new order’) and Clive Webb (‘Mob Violence against
 Foreign Nationals in the United States, 1850-1950’).
 Some of our projects are hugely ambitious multi-partner undertakings that aim to create
 transformative resources and methodologies. Hitchcock was Co-I on ‘The Digital Panopticon:
 The Global Impact of London Punishments, 1780-1925’ which ran from 2013-2018 and received
 £1,396,847 from the AHRC; he also works with Hendy (P-I, Media) on the ‘BBC Connected
 Histories’ AHRC project which has an overall funded value of £787,310. Barron collaborates with
 Tom Wright (P-I, English) on the £750,000 AHRC funded ‘Speaking Citizens’ project, which
 partners with educators and politicians to show how citizenship can be taught through talk and
 dialogue. One of our largest projects reflects an on-going focus on inequality. Gazeley’s ESRC
 funded ‘Global Income Inequality Project’ ran from 2014-2018, built on expertise developed in
 the ‘British Living Standards Project’, and used a vast cache of household expenditure surveys
 to calculate global income inequality between 1890 and 1960. A dataset consisting of inequality
 measures for 46 nation states and a global bibliography of all known household expenditure
 surveys covering the period was deposited in the UK Data Archive: 10.5255/UKDA-SN-853185.
 The experience of hosting major grants has helped us to develop the skills and infrastructure to
 ensure the success of other projects. We have been funded by a range of bodies including the
 British Academy, British Council, ESRC, EU, SSHRC and other foundations and charities.
 Awards are distributed across faculty, reflecting our aim of pursuing thematic and
 methodological breadth and supporting all faculty - particularly early and mid-career scholars -
 in their research endeavours. Many have a digital component in line with our open research
 strategy and a number reflect our commitment to making history with a wider social purpose.
 We have also benefitted from internal funding aimed at growing projects (£46,577); from the
 strategic investment of £3.25 million in the Sussex Humanities Lab (which brought History two
 lectureships); and from targeted use of the JRA Scheme. Donations totalling £1,572,260 have
 supported studentships and outreach activities, as well as the Yossi Harel Chair.
 Our awards have helped us realise our collaborative research strategy. Damodaran’s AHRC
 project on ‘The Botanical and Meteorological History of the Indian Ocean, 1500-1900’ drew
 together organizations in the UK and India to repatriate knowledge. Funding from the Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council, Canada, allowed her to interrogate historical data
 with global partners to enhance understanding of environmental crises. The AHRC funded
 project ‘Small Bills and Petty Finance’ used a partnership with volunteer researchers to explore
 the potential of co-created digital history. Evans used his Leverhulme Trust Fellowship to deliver
 the ‘Paris-Londres’ exhibition as well as a related special issue and catalogue. An award from
 the Rothschild Foundation created the ‘Sussex German-Jewish Archive’ at The Keep, whilst
 funding from the Gerry Holdsworth Trust supported a partnership with Tangmere Military
 Aviation Museum.
 Our externally funded projects reflect our commitment to studying marginalized groups and our
 determination to work with non-HEI actors and communities to extend access to historical
 research. Rietzler’s partnership with Patricia Owens (P-I, International Relations, Oxford) on the
 Leverhulme funded ‘Women and the History of International Thought Project’ has written women
 back into the history of International Relations. Sharon Webb’s BA project on ‘Identity,
 Representation and Preservation in Community Digital Archives and Collections’ explored the
 implications of community-driven approaches to heritage and digital archiving for long-term
 sustainability. Its central problematic reflects our wider social purpose commitment: how to
 support community archives and ensure their long-term survival without removing agency?
 Norris’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship on ‘Merchants and Miracles: global circulations and the
 making of modern Bethlehem’ documents the transformation of Bethlehem in the nineteenth and
 twentieth centuries as a result of its residents’ global circulations. In partnership with Leila
 Sansour, an acclaimed Bethlehem film maker, the project has created an OA digital archive –
 Planet Bethlehem – that presents Bethlehem’s global story to public audiences. The project also
 benefitted from the contributions of four JRAs: our research environment facilitates the
 participation of the whole academic community and this includes our undergraduate students

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The unit has also benefitted from the University’s investment in new facilities and infrastructure.
 The Keep Archive is a £19m collaboration between the University, East Sussex County Council
 and Brighton and Hove City Council that facilitates research by housing all three organizations’
 archives in one location. This allows us to work with researchers outside of traditional HEI. It
 houses the Mass-Observation Archive and Project, the Archive of Resistance Testimony, and
 the German-Jewish Studies Archive, amongst other local collections, and constitutes an
 outstanding research facility. We publish on its collections (Baker and Geiringer, Barron, Cook
 and Webb, Kirby, Langhamer, Robinson); we work with its archivists (Langhamer, Reuveni,
 Warne, Sharon Webb); we deliver its public talks (Kirby, Langhamer, Robinson and Wolf); and it
 hosts some of our project activities (Falcini and Hitchcock).
 History is a key partner in the Sussex Humanities Lab: Baker and Sharon Webb are core team
 members; Hitchcock is the current director; Kounine, Norris and Warne are also SHL members;
 and Langhamer sits on the steering committee. Established in 2015 and now in its second phase
 of funding, it provides both a state of the art physical space and an intellectual infrastructure for
 connecting those working on digital technology and computational culture across the humanities,
 social sciences, and STEM. It offers a dynamic environment for developing grant applications
 from which both the ‘Lysander Flights’ and ‘Global Bethlehem’ projects benefitted, the latter
 through an intensive ‘bid sprint.’ SHL also advises on data management plans and offers
 technical overview as well as extending the intellectual implications of related projects. It helped
 Norris to interrogate important issues around copyright, ethics, and archiving standards, whilst
 the ‘BBC Connected History’ project has explored the implications of the digital cataloguing of
 oral history interviews.
 The Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts (ACCA) is a new performance and exhibition
 hub emerging out of a £7.2 million refurbishment of the disused Gardner Arts Centre. It has five
 studios, a 350-seat auditorium, and offers opportunities for public facing activities. Its ‘pay what
 you can afford’ scheme enhances accessibility. Since its completion in 2016 we have used it for
 large-scale conferences and open events, as well as research-related workshops and
 performances. ACCA has hosted events organised by the Resistance Studies Network including
 Reggae at 50 in which a rare screening of Horace Ové’s 1971 documentary Reggae (1971) was
 followed by an afternoon of music and discussion. We also collaborate with the ACCA Cinema
 Club and its podcasts, presenting and introducing films such as Babylon (Evans), Theatre of
 War (Robinson) and The Lives of Others (Wolf).
 In 2019 investment from Sussex University and the Austrian and German governments
 established The Sussex Weidenfeld Institute of Jewish Studies which tackles contemporary
 issues through the lens of Jewish experience. Led by Reuveni, it aims to be an agent of societal
 change, exploring issues such as the rise of religious intolerance, racism, and nationalism
 through research (including a visiting fellowship programme and PhD scholarships), education
 and outreach. It has already attracted donations of over £450,000 from a range of additional
 donors including the Weidenfeld family, and Bader Philanthropies.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society
 Sussex historians seek to mould and sustain the research base through our scholarly
 interventions, our roles as journal editors, reviewers, board members and trustees, and through
 our international partnerships. We work collaboratively with the Public/Third Sector and with
 other organisations (including making digital connections with local creative industries), in order
 to meet our objective of making history that effects real change and has a wider social
 purpose. Our work critically engages with what collaboration can and might mean to historians
 and collaboration is embedded in our working practices – Robinson is Professor of Collaborative
 History. There are a series of overlapping spheres of collaboration within the Department, within
 HAHP (and now MAH), within the University, with non-HEIs and with scholars in our own fields
 and in other disciplines.
 Our work has shaped fields including environmental history, the history of emotions, and
 German-Jewish studies. We have created new archival resources (e.g. the Archive of
 Resistance Testimony), and have transformed historical practices through, for example, our
                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 digital scholarship and partnerships. We have been awarded prizes for our monographs (Cook,
 Davies, Endersby, Reuveni), our articles (Clive Webb, Winterbottom, and for Selway, the Labour
 History Review PGR Essay Prize), and our collaborations with documentary filmmakers
 (Robinson). We have edited journals such as Contemporary British History (Robinson) and sit on
 the editorial boards of 11 others. We edit monograph series’ that represent our interventions in
 the field, such as Popular Culture and Subcultures (Robinson), and Critical Theory and Critical
 History (Schecter). We work with publications that extend audiences for history such as History
 Today (Evans).
 We advise grant-awarding bodies, sit on peer review colleges and have reviewed applications
 for 10 funding organisations. We are advisory board members of projects supported by the
 ESRC, AHRC and H2020 and have sat on the advisory councils of the British Society for Islamic
 Studies, the IHR Durham, the Max Planck Institute, Berlin and the Scientific Committee of the
 Luxembourg Centre for Contemporary and Digital History. We act as Trustees and advisers to
 archives and libraries including Mass-Observation, the British Library, the Association of
 European Research Libraries, and the Museum of London. We have led disciplinary
 organisations including the Syrian Studies Association and have organised the annual
 conferences of others (the British Society for Middle Eastern Studies in 2014; the British
 Association of American Studies in 2019). We have examined PhDs across the globe – from
 Harvard to Sydney, Tel Aviv to Durban. This work reflects both our outward-facing perspective
 and our commitment to sustaining the discipline through service and collaboration.
 We see collaboration as a way of generating something more valuable than the sum of its parts.
 We collaborate with formal and informal archives and archivists - from The National Archive to
 local community projects - co-producing knowledge and building expertise. We host scholars
 through our visiting researcher scheme and practitioners through our research associate
 scheme. We research and publish with academics from other universities and disciplines
 including sociologists, educationalists, economists, geographers, and colleagues in Media and
 Film, International Relations, and Engineering and Design. We also publish with research data
 managers, archivists, curators, music technologists, musicians, and documentary makers. We
 work in networks that specifically valorise collaboration: the ‘Subcultures, Popular Music and
 Social Change’ network has shared authorship of all its publications.
 We collaborate globally, as well as locally, actively promoting equality, diversity, and inclusion
 through our partnership-building. Norris’s 2019 symposium on Digital Arab Diasporas welcomed
 scholars from Syria, Palestine, Lebanon, Somalia, France, Canada, and the US; our ‘Academia
 and Activism’ network works together with communities to promote the cause of indigenous
 peoples and to highlight issues of human rights and social justice. We recognise the importance
 of supporting those working in the digital technology, science, arts, and creative sectors,
 particularly in the context of Covid-19. Over the REF period we have partnered with 30 different
 national and international organisations including museums, archives, and scientific bodies.
 Our history is founded on challenging convention: we hope to transform both our own practice
 and that of our partners through recognising the value of shared expertise. We believe that we
 offer something distinctive – social entrepreneurship, social conscience, and a different
 perspective. In line with the Sussex2025 Strategic Framework we endeavour to create real-world
 impact by working outside of the academy to make history in new ways.
 We make queer history by developing queer approaches to public history, seen in Sharon
 Webb’s ‘Queer Archiving’ project and Robinson’s role as historical consultant on the
 prizewinning film Queerama (Asquith, 2017). The Department has strong links with the
 community project ‘Queer in Brighton’: Robinson advised on their oral history collection and
 collaborated on an anthology; Webb helped to develop this into an ongoing community history
 club, connecting with Brighton’s Digital Festival and Brighton Fringe Festival. Her partnership
 with a computational artist on the Queer Codebreakers exhibition (2019-20) used interactive
 installation art to engage people with the Queer in Brighton archive.
 We make resistant history through public debates, theatre performances, film showings and
 community engagement. We have intervened in public discourse by collaborating with Black
 Lives Matter activists (the 2018 Scholar-Activism in the 21st century Network); through

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Robinson’s work with Vivienne Westwood on the ‘Intellectuals Unite’ project; and in partnership
 with Brighton and Hove Council and the Secret WW2 Learning Network to erect Blue Plaques to
 mark the lives of SOE operatives. Our Resistance Network co-convened the cultural programme
 for the ‘Paris-Londres’ exhibition, including a new performance of Asian Dub Foundation’s ciné-
 concert, The Battle of Algiers. Our 2015 ‘Resistance Season’ included a Brighton Fringe Festival
 performance of Partisans by Compagnie des Barriques and a Festival ‘in-conversation’ with
 Sussex emerita Rod Kedward and author Caroline Moorehead. We partner with Brighton’s
 festivals to organise, host, and speak at events, and this roots us in our local context.
 As evidenced by two of our impact case studies, we work closely with a number of public
 audiences and heritage organisations to make environmental history. Endersby’s recent
 Gresham lectures have attracted over 8,000 views on You Tube; Damodaran’s work with
 libraries, museums and archives has facilitated the repatriation of vital botanic collections. When
 we make history with museums we offer more than contextual knowledge or commentary; our
 research informs the very shape of what emerges. Robinson’s contribution to ‘Bergerac’s Island:
 Jersey in the 80s’ (2017-18) helped find ways to think beyond chronology: the exhibit was
 ultimately built around emotions and was seen by 56,000 people.
 We actively participate in curriculum design by making history with teachers. The National
 Archive hosts teaching resources on ‘The Dawn of Affluence’ developed with teachers at the end
 of the ESRC-funded ‘British Living Standards Project.’ Our annual Holocaust Memorial Day
 event attracts school children from across the south east; in 2019 we worked with colleagues in
 the School of Education to design a linked GCSE History day. Our widening participation
 programmes on Mass-Observation, the local experience of the First World War and Special
 Operations during the Second World War, have supported learning for students in years 8, 10
 and 12 as well as shaping their future choices. Teacher conferences have further developed our
 relationship with local schools and provided professional development for staff. Our connection
 with teacher training extends internationally, embracing the digital potential of shared open
 learning. Baker’s work with the prizewinning Programming Historian open-access, multi-lingual
 journal is changing the practice of history on a global scale by publishing peer-reviewed tutorials
 written by historians for historians. It has a huge audience, in South America and parts of Asia
 as well as across Europe. It attracted 1.5 million users in 2020.
 Nationally we work with public cultures and media practitioners to make history popular. Our
 ‘Trump Watch’ podcast brought academics, students, and journalists together to discuss the
 presidency. We have a disproportionate media presence for our size and are regularly
 interviewed in the local and national press. Over the REF period, listeners to Radio 4 have heard
 Damodaran talking about Allan Octavian Hume, Cook discussing President Ulysses S Grant with
 Melvyn Bragg and Langhamer explaining the vicissitudes of post-war housing. Robinson is a
 regular contributor to Radio 4’s ‘Making History’ programme; Hitchcock appeared on the ‘Joy of
 Data’ in 2016 (BBC4) and Paul discussed the nature of political counsel in Channel 5’s ‘History
 Repeating?’ (2020). Our media profile extends to appearances in documentaries in the US
 (Follett and Hitchcock) and our work has been reported on by, amongst others, the New Delhi
 Times, the Washington Post, and the Ma’an News Agency.
 We also work with documentary makers to develop and produce broadcasts. Endersby was the
 historical consultant for a 25-part series on Plants: from Roots to Riches for Radio 4 in 2016;
 Gazeley’s research on household budgets underpinned the Wall to Wall/BBC series’ Back in
 Time for the Weekend (2016) and Back in Time For Tea (2018); Langhamer was consulted on,
 and appeared in, the two-part BBC documentary, Princess Margaret: the Rebel Royal (2018);
 and Robinson worked with filmmaker Daisy Asquith on Channel 4’s Crazy About One Direction
 (August 2013). Paul was one of 10 AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinkers in 2017 chosen to
 develop new history programming.
 Through our collaborative approaches to making history, we seek to change history. We do this
 through our impact as historians and public intellectuals, consultant advisers, and community
 activists. Our ethos of public engagement, our expansive sense of research culture, and our
 commitment to active collaboration underpins our work beyond the University. This in turn has
 had a transformative impact on our own scholarship and on our research practices.

                                                                                             Page 14
