Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 12 - Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context

 Engineering research at Edinburgh Napier University (ENU) being submitted to UoA12 is
 focussed in two main areas:

    (i)     Smart Technology
    (ii)    Infrastructure Engineering

 The Unit comprises of 27.4 FTE submitted category A staff, all of whom are located within the
 School of Engineering and the Built Environment (SEBE). SEBE is a vibrant academic unit
 comprising 68 category A staff. It will also return 12.6 FTE category A staff to UoA13, hence
 approximately 61% of SEBE academic staff are deemed significantly responsible for research.
 The comparable submission figure in 2014 was approximately 50% of SEBE staff.

 SEBE is one of 6 academic school units at ENU. Its mission is to deliver high quality education
 and research to add value to the social, cultural and economic capital of the communities it
 serves. Through alignment with the University’s overarching focus on Well-being & Sustainability
 and the research themes of Environment and AI Technologies, SEBE contributes significantly to
 the University mission. In 2019/20 SEBE had an undergraduate population of 1,237 and a taught
 post graduate population of 426. There were 27 research postgraduate students.

 The last time SEBE submitted to a general Engineering UoA was to RAE 2001, when it was
 rated as a 4, ranked between 14th and 21st in a field of 48 submissions. Since then, and
 especially following REF 2014, the engineering research environment in SEBE has been the
 beneficiary of significant changes. A review at University and School level prioritised
 interdisciplinary, high-impact themes. Recent strategic recruitment was successful in the new
 appointment of 18 talented research staff who can drive high-quality research. Consequently,
 the 2014 emphasis on civil, construction and transportation engineering, has broadened to
 include robotics, sensors, human-centred design, and materials, as well as geotechnical, timber,
 structural, power and renewables engineering. Transportation engineering is now being
 submitted to UoA13.

 These developments have allowed SEBE to revive former strengths, to nurture new ones, and to
 submit again under Engineering. The scale of the broader scope is significant considering that of
 the 28 members of staff being submitted now, only 10 were at ENU in 2014 and submitted to
 REF2014. Moreover, 11 of the 18 newer recruits have been recruited since 2018. Hence we
 have put in place a group of researchers who are bringing results.

 Structure: Centres and Groups

 Integration of new appointments into University and School activities has, since 2018, led to an
 exciting evolution of research strategy and structures in this Unit. Research is now clustered into
 two themes or centres: (i) Smart Technology and (ii) Infrastructure Engineering.

 Within each centre there exist two or three research groups, as illustrated in Fig. 1. The five
 research groups also provide an internal context for discipline expertise in the Unit (Fig. 1). They
 are charged with giving staff a sense of coherence and critical mass while remaining alert and
 open to interdisciplinary and collaborative ventures. The strategic aim of each group is to


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 achieve impact and sustainability in relevant, applied research. New staff are strategically
 appointed with this in mind.




 Fig. 1 UoA12 Research Centres and constituent Research Groups together with current FTE

 Smart Technology Research Centre (STRC)
 As a direct consequence of a revitalised research strategy, excellent research is performed
 across the three groups that make up the Smart Technology Research Centre; Robotics &
 Automation, Sensors and Internet of Things, and Innovative Design & Materials. The structure
 facilitates multi-disciplinary collaborations nationally and internationally.

 Robotics & Automation: This group comprises 6 FTE staff: led by Yu, with Guiver,
 McWhinnie, Goh, Givaki and Taylor (1 professor, 5 lecturers). Brought together following
 recent new appointments (Yu, Guiver, Givaki), the group has expertise in leading edge digital,
 control, and AI technologies and methodologies. In robotic solutions, applications concern
 rotorcraft landing on uneven terrain and under extreme conditions (Goh, McWhinnie, Yu).

 Fundamental research is conducted on the intersection of mathematical analysis and
 mathematical control theory (Guiver, Yu). New techniques are invented in positive state control
 systems with a view to applications in mathematical biology and ecology (Guiver). Research has
 also taken place into cyber security of Industrial Control Systems with colleagues in the School
 of Computing (SoC) (McWhinnie, Goh, Yu).

 Yu has undertaken research on SMOOTH-Smart Robots for Firefighting, funded by EU Horizon
 2020, and has developed a novel robot-assisted decision-making system in smart firefighting.
 The team has also just secured an initial award from Scottish Ambulance Service to enhance
 efficiency of call out operations.

 Across the robotics and sensors groups, innovative bicycle sensor systems have been
 developed and applied in road-surface condition monitoring and human-hand vibration
 monitoring has led to changes in EU standards (Taylor, See).

 Sensors and IoT: This group comprises 4 FTE staff: led by See, with Alwis, Kerrouche and La
 Spada (1 associate professor, 3 lecturers). The recent appointment of See and La Spada
 enabled the emergence of this group. Driven by sensor applications, this group has developed
 innovative telecommunications systems, wireless sensor networks, antennae and sensors (both
 electromagnetic and acoustic) for healthcare and extreme environment applications (See, La
 Spada). It also concerns embedded optical fibre sensors in civil engineering infrastructure for
 structural health monitoring (Alwis, Kerrouche) and water borne pathogen detection
 (Kerrouche, See).

 Engineering Design and Materials: This group comprises 4 FTE staff: led by Langdon, with
 Vasantha, Dorris and Sun (1 professor, 1 senior research fellow, 2 lecturers). This entirely

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 newly recruited group brings international recognition for work on inclusion, ageing, ergonomics,
 interaction design and user experience (particularly the analysis of human factors), human
 machine interface design and the ergonomics of autonomous vehicles from SAE L3-5. It also
 concerns public opinion on Connected and Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs).

 This work is backed up by design informatics analysis into innovation and rapid product
 development (Vasantha). Expertise also exists around effective design reuse, integrated
 product and service design, model-based system engineering and analysis, problem-based
 patent documents clustering, and adaptive crowd intelligence in engineering problem-solving
 (Givaki).

 This group’s research is strongly multidisciplinary in scope, recognising the need for
 comprehensive approaches to climate change, transport and the challenges and opportunities of
 IoT and communication technologies. As such, it reaches out to other groups within and without
 this Unit. For example, although his research sits in UoA12, Langdon also leads the Transport
 Research Institute, which is being submitted to UoA13.

 Work in materials is led by Dorris and has been on two main topics; self-healing industrial
 coatings for protection of metal structures such as off-shore installations (Stankiewicz, now left
 the University), and harvesting of nano-cellulose from seaweed (Dorris), the latter funded by
 Zero Waste Scotland.

 Centre for Infrastructure Engineering
 Infrastructure Engineering is broadly a civil and renewable energy research grouping. There are
 two groups, with expertise clustered around; geotechnical, structural and timber engineering
 (including timber resources), and power and renewables (solar, wind and marine).

 Geotechnical, Structural & Timber Engineering: This group comprises 7 FTE staff: led by
 McDougall, with Barreto, Dimitriadi, Zhang, Ridley Ellis, Marinelli and Khokhar (1 reader, 2
 associate professors, 4 lecturers). The geotechnics team (McDougall, Barreto, Dimitriadi) has
 notable expertise in the characterisation and modelling of unusual soils (landfilled waste, peat,
 and rubber soil mixtures), hydro-bio-mechanical formulations with grading entropy concepts
 implemented via finite elements, finite difference and discrete element methods (McDougall,
 Barreto), and seismic performance of shallow foundations due to liquefaction and ground
 improvement (Dimitriadi).

 The timber and structures team have strengths in wood science, silviculture, timber properties
 timber composites and novel engineered-timber structures including bamboo, I beams and oak
 whisky casks (Zhang & Ridley-Ellis), structural dynamics of timber floors, innovative hybrid
 cross laminated timber structures (Khokhar), and material characterisation of natural building
 stones, structural assessment and restoration of historic buildings (Marinelli).

 Work in wood science has a strong external presence through the Centre for Wood Science &
 Technology (CSWT). With large scale testing facilities located in an industrial complex in
 Edinburgh, CSWT is led by Ridley-Ellis and staffed by three research assistants and
 technicians. Its main aim is to better understand how the management of forests and the climate
 influence the properties of produced timber, and how these affect its performance in different
 applications.

 The group’s commitment to applied research is well illustrated by the impact of work done on the
 structural integrity of whisky casks by Zhang and Kermani, and on wood science by Ridley-
 Ellis. Both are submitted as impact case studies to this Unit. Zhang, Kermani and Ridley-Ellis
 were key to the award of the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2015, which was also won for timber
 engineering work in 2009.

 Power and Renewables Engineering: This group comprises 5.2 FTE staff: led by Muneer with
 Vedreno, Cai, Sola, Papadopoulos and Tingas (1 professor, 5 lecturers). The interest of this

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 group is mainly in electrical and power engineering, including energy and distribution, energy
 storage, and renewable energy sources (solar). Recent appointments (Sola, Papadopoulos,
 Tingas) have broadened the renewable energy focus to include wind and marine. Additionally,
 Muneer has worked (collaboratively with colleagues in the Transport Research Institute) on the
 electrification of transportation. A particular strength of the group is solar energy, in relation to
 CIBSE guides for weather and solar data modelling.

 Notable expertise also exists in control and operation of HVDC converters and systems (Givaki),
 modelling, design and prototyping of Power Electronics Converters and Drives (Papadopoulos)
 and fault diagnostics and condition monitoring for electrical machines (Vedreño-Santos). This
 expertise is complimentary to work in the electrical and mechanical modelling of wind turbines,
 power train design and marine energy devices (Sola, Vedreño).

 Fundamental research in the area of fuel efficiency has recently been added to the group’s
 portfolio following the appointment of Tingas. This work concerns the dynamics analysis of
 reacting flows, and reduction of sophisticated complex chemical kinetics using an algorithmic
 method for asymptotic analysis.

 The impact value of renewable energy research at ENU is well illustrated by the submitted
 impact case study on solar radiation (Muneer).

 Strategy for Next Five Years

 SEBE, through alignment with the University’s overarching research themes of Sustainable
 Communities, Information Society and Well-being, has contributed significantly to the University
 mission over the last 5 years.

 The School and Unit are committed to the University’s overarching research strategy as outlined
 in the REF5a. Future school strategies are informed by the institution’s five-year focus on staff
 development, increasing innovation, and developing international research partnerships, and
 aim to feed into the broad strategic aims of the University. Future interdisciplinary opportunities
 will be guided by the new University themes.

 Following the recent recruitment drive and planned submission to UoA12, we are very well
 placed to raise the bar and the profile of Engineering research in SEBE. On this basis, a
 research strategy and objectives for this Unit will drive international recognition for high quality
 research and build colleagues’ careers. These objectives are:

    -   Income: to increase income threefold across all categories (research, knowledge
        transfer, CPD) by 2024/2025. This is an ambitious target based on the commitment to
        developing the research base in Engineering as shown by the recent recruitment drive.

    -   Research postgraduates: to increase numbers of enrolled PGR students from 22 in
        2021 to 32 in 2024/25. This will be supported by a combination of external funding and
        continued internal pump priming of selected areas of research (e.g. by internal fee waiver
        when external funding is won).

    -   High-quality outputs (widening staff capability): to increase the number of staff
        with two 3* or above outputs. Presently 39 category A staff in SEBE hold 3* or
        above outputs, which is 57% of the category A staff. We aim for this figure to
        increase to 70% by next REF. This is objective will be met by promotion of an active
        research culture within the school, and by mentoring and regular exposure to the
        discipline base (e.g. by conference attendance).

    -   High-quality outputs (consolidating capacity): to grow the number of
        internationally excellent outputs produced by individual staff.


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   External funding success rates: to increase the proportion of staff who have won
        external funding from 38% to 50%.

    -   Significant contributions to research base: each research group member to
        demonstrate at least one activity that can be cited as a significant contribution
        during the census period. The Unit will support researchers in undertaking significant
        activities, including; invited keynote/plenary presentations, journal editorial/editorship
        roles, and international conference organisation.

    -   Public Engagement: at least one event per year organised by the Unit of
        Assessment. This objective is to promote openness in our research, and to
        communicate to communities the type and value of the activity taking place in their local
        university. It will be supported by the SEBE public engagement champion.

    -   Contribution to teaching: at least one case of research expertise driving the
        teaching programme. STRC is actively developing research-informed teaching courses,
        and has already applied funds from Royal Academy of Engineering to fund two visiting
        professors to contribute the research-informed activities to the engineering subject group.
        One is Visiting Professor in Control and Instrumentation for the Industry 4.0 age, and the
        other is Visiting Professor in Developing Professional Skills for Electronic and Electrical
        Engineers.

    -   Contribution to wider society, economy and community: generate three 3* impact
        case studies for UOA12 from the REF2021 submission. The Unit has already
        identified 2 possible case study candidates for the next REF period, one in Robotics and
        Automation for Industry 4.0 and another on energy and power engineering. Work is also
        underway on the environmental impact of construction on peatlands.

 Enabling Impact

 Historically, engineering research in SEBE has been strongly applied (e.g. timber engineering,
 solar energy potential, wood technology, and fibre optics). Recent recruitment into the areas of
 human computer interaction, robotics, digital healthcare, Industry 4.0, robots for firefighting and
 manufacturing, have increased the scope of the Unit’s application. For example, the recruitment
 of Langdon, whose work on MATSA (Motion Adaptive Touchscreen System for Automotive) has
 been funded by Jaguar Land Rover. Bringing in new researchers with applied focuses has
 improved the strong impact potential of the Unit.

 The Unit has prioritised engagement with industrialists, entrepreneurs, consultants and
 innovators. A dedicated KTP facilitator has been used to support certain projects. A business
 development manager, with both regional and sector expertise, has been recruited to establish
 contacts. An enterprise lead has been appointed to guide future commercial strategy. In addition
 to this recruitment, group leaders in this Unit actively encourage staff to make use of University
 Commercial Engagement managers. Two colleagues working in the area of self-healing coatings
 (Stankiewicz) and Bamboo/timber composite beams and torsion testing (Zhang) have been
 helped by our Commercial Engagement manager in the Research, Innovation, and Enterprise
 Office to apply for patents.

 Recognition of the priority given to impact is evidenced by our success in 2020 in securing two
 Industrial Visiting Professor Awards from the Royal Academy of Engineering. Visiting professors
 improve knowledge and understanding of key subject areas, as well as connecting research with
 the needs of industry and society. They also have a positive impact on graduates and research
 students by contributing to teaching and learning, as well as employability and skills. Visiting
 professors support SEBE engineering graduates and research students to strengthen external
 partnerships with industry during their studies.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This commitment to supporting applied research, with input from KTP and commercial experts,
 has strengthened colleague’s readiness and capability to engage in impactful research. This
 approach underpins the Unit’s three impact case studies:

 Solar Radiation: Enabling International Innovative Design Applications for Professional
 Practice (Muneer)
 Muneer’s research into solar radiation and daylight was undertaken for organisations such as
 with the Chartered Institute of Building Service Engineers, and technology company Delta-T. By
 responding to the needs of these organisations, his research has impacted international
 standards, professional practice guidelines and products.

 Improving Whisky Cask Performance to Benefit Distilleries (Kermani and Zhang)
 Kermani and Zhang’s research was a part of a KTP with one of the world’s largest producers of
 spirits and beers. It has shown that improved knowledge of cask performance can benefit both
 the distiller and the sector as a whole by doubling cask lifespan, with improved methods of cask
 rejuvenation and a reduced need for replacement casks, and reduced liquor losses during
 maturation due to better bung design. This has led to high estimated savings for the producer.

 Timber properties, grading & standards for sustainable modern construction (Ridley-
 Ellis)
 The “Strategic Integrated Research in Timber” (SIRT) and allied projects have led to the creation
 of The Centre for Wood Science and Technology (CWST). The commercial support provided to
 this centre has led to funded projects from stakeholder groups, such as the Forestry
 Commission Scotland. The research has increased knowledge of key physical and mechanical
 properties of UK and Irish grown timber, resulting in improvements in standards for production
 and sustainable use of timber construction products, which has benefitted UK and Irish growers
 and sawmills.

 Supporting Interdisciplinarity

 Figure 2 shows schematically the interdisciplinarity of this Unit’s work, both between research
 groups within UoA12 (intradisciplinarity), and between UoA12 and other schools or external
 bodies (interdisciplinarity).

 Both intra- and interdisciplinarity have been nurtured by strategic recruitment. Recent arrivals,
 such as Yu and his work on robotics and automation, offer rich interdisciplinary gains, in this
 case in the medical arena and especially in digital healthcare. The strength and potential for
 interdisciplinary work are underlined internally with the Schools of Computing and Health
 Sciences, and externally with various organisations on topics such as smart robots for
 firefighting (e.g. impact of COVID-19 on Scottish Manufacturing Sector and investigation of an
 Industry 4.0 framework).




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Fig. 2 Interdisciplinarity (between UoA12 and other research entities outwith SEBE) and
 intradisciplinary (within UoA12) research activity.

 Professors Yu and Langdon bring establish reputations in Statistical Machine Learning,
 Machine-Learning, and Robotics, especially when applied to practical technology. This tranche
 of new expertise will be used to develop STRC/TRIc multi-disciplinary bids for funding. Novel
 research into technology in transport and infrastructure will be prioritised to respond to the
 growing needs of transport in a context of climate change, as well as addressing inequalities and
 lack of inclusion in the population. As a result, Human Centred Design will be closely linked to
 work by the TRIc and the Robotics and Sensors Technology group (Yu).

 Open Research

 UoA12 at ENU is committed to making research findings public and freely available. The Unit
 follows University open research requirements, and outputs are held in the University repository
 and are compliant with the Concordat on Open Research Data. The School Head of Research is
 charged with ensuring compliance (Yu). For REF2021, UoA12 will return 69 outputs, all of which
 are available from ENU or another university repository. 13 were published by gold route.

 Regarding promotion of the open data agenda, the School is incorporating data management
 plans into the established funding peer review process. In addition, school research leaders,
 following engagement with the University Lead for Research Data, provide advice and
 mentorship to staff during pre-application stages. Exemplar data management plans are also
 made available to staff where appropriate.

 Supporting Research Integrity

 In accordance with University guidelines and requirements, research in the Unit is encouraged to
 be conducted to the highest levels of integrity, including appropriate research design and
 frameworks. To ensure that findings are robust and defensible, SEBE underpins its integrity and
 data protection commitments via its ethics committee. Chaired by Langdon and comprising 10
 researchers and stakeholders, the committee meets on a quarterly basis. Langdon is a
 specialist in Research Ethics and Data Management.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The School is currently operating a pre-award requirement for new projects that may require the
 storage of any personal data. The aim of this is to ensure compliance with University regulations,
 UK Law and GDPR. This comprises of a researcher checklist, data management plan, privacy
 assessment, and informed consent and briefing document. The researcher’s checklist is
 structured as a sequence of screening questions that identifies areas of ethical and integrity risk.
 Post award, projects will be required to get ethical approval from the SEBE ethics lead where
 items of potential sensitivity will be referred to the SEBE ethics committee.

 2. People

 Strategy

 In 2018 SEBE made the strategic decision to re-establish engineering research at ENU by
 recruitment. As a result there has been a concerted effort to recruit into key areas. Of the 28
 category A staff being submitted, 18 were appointed after the date of the last REF, which
 represents a threefold increase on the pre-existing 10 staff members. The submitted staff profile
 is: 71% lecturers, 11% associate professors, 11% professors, 4% senior research fellows, and
 4% readers.

 All staff members are on permanent contracts. Two of the new appointments were professors,
 recruited to lead in the areas of robotics, intelligent control & emerging technologies (Yu) and
 inclusive design, ergonomics and human factors (Langdon). These individuals were targeted to
 lead these areas based on extensive publications records and success in grant capture. Nine of
 the lecturers in the Unit are early career researchers. Leadership capabilities in two of the
 research groups, plus succession planning in Infrastructure Engineering mean further
 recruitment to the Unit is still planned.




 Fig 3. Length of service since appointment to ENU; post REF2014 shown in blue.

 Staff Development

 As described in REF5a, all staff are part of a newly-implemented career development scheme
 called ‘My Contribution’. In SEBE and UoA12 a portion of REG funding is made available for
 staff development. In the period, this has typically supported attendance at external training
 courses that are aligned with research training needs as identified through the My Contribution
 process.

 SEBE uses the My Contribution process to ensure staff in the school from all backgrounds and
 experience are able to develop a research career. A good example of how the career
 development scheme has worked for this Unit is the case of McWhinnie, who has been on the

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lecturing staff for over 25 years. Through more targeted and relevant mentoring, provision of
 research time, and development, McWhinnie is now being submitted to REF as significantly
 responsible for research.

 More broadly, the number of category A staff in SEBE holding what have been internally
 assessed as two or more internationally excellent outputs is 39 out of 69. This is planned to
 increase to 48 by the next REF. As in the case of McWhinnie, other staff have been identified
 as developing for REF, and are provided with protected time and mentor support to ready them
 for the next submission.

 It is recognised that sabbatical leave provides an opportunity for staff to develop links and
 enhance the national and international profile of their teaching and research. This Unit is
 committed to University sabbatical policy as set out in REF5a.

 The Unit provided a semester sabbatical for Barreto, who organised a 4-month residency at
 Zhejiang University, one of China’s foremost research institutions. He worked with Professor
 Zhongxuan Yang on the cyclic behaviour of driven piles in sand for offshore installations. This
 visit, provided by The Royal Academy of Engineering's Research Exchanges with China and
 India Programme, led to publication of several conference and journal publications, the co-
 supervision of 1 MSc student and 1 PhD student, and the award to Barreto of the title of Visiting
 Scholar at Zhejiang.

 The impact of Barreto’s visit was managed by adopting a collegiate and reciprocal approach to
 sabbatical cover, drawing on the benefits of team-teaching. Indeed, such an approach is now a
 key part of University policy on sabbatical leave.

 Staff Recruitment Policy

 UoA12 has made strategic appointments at lecturer level in geotechnics (Dimitriadi), electronics
 (La Spada), structures (Marinelli), mechanical engineering (Givaki, Sola, Papadopoulos),
 interactive design (Vasantha), and engineering mathematics (Tingas, Guiver). The Unit has
 also attracted experienced staff and postdocs from strong European research institutions (e.g.
 Langdon from University of Cambridge, Papadopolous from University of Nottingham). At
 associate professor level, one appointment has been made in electronics (See) and at professor
 level, three have been made (Yu, Langdon and Keates, Keates has now moved on). One
 research assistant has been promoted to a lectureship (Sun) and one staff member has been
 promoted to associate professor (Zhang).

 Plans to recruit at professor level in civil engineering and in mechanical engineering were
 delayed by COVID-19, although an individual has now been recruited to the mechanical
 engineering professorship.

 This strategy has been a major factor in the significant increase in outputs eligible for REF
 submission, experience in grant success, doctoral student supervision capacity and importantly,
 what has internally been judged to be the improvement in the quality of outputs. Recruitment to
 all new academic posts will continue to emphasise the need for all successful candidates to
 understand and demonstrate support for the indivisibility of research and teaching, as well as
 having strong research track records.

 Early Career Researchers (ECR)

 To allow the long-term sustainability of research in UoA12, ECR’s are provided with a number of
 opportunities to develop and access funding. UoA12 has 9 staff who are early career
 researchers.

 Specific encouragement and support to help build ECR careers is given in a number of ways:


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (i)     Mentoring. ECR’s are allocated a mentor to support them in developing skills and
            identifying training needs across the academic role. Mentors advise on publications
            strategy and support ECRs in considering external early career research grant
            opportunities. A school-wide peer review scheme is in place to support the
            application process.

    (ii)    PhD supervision. UoA12 aims for each ECR to have minimum of one PGR student
            for whom they are director of studies, to improve their experience of supervision.

    (iii)   Preferential consideration in internal funding. In 2020/21, a call for bids into
            SEBE ‘seed-corn’ funds saw ECRs submit 10 out of a total of 15 applications, 4 of
            which are in this Unit. They secured £30,000 from a total £94,000.

    (iv)    Training workshops. ECR’s are provided preferential support to attend specialist
            workshops (e.g. Vedreno at TechEx).

    (v)     Conference attendance. ECR’s are supported in attending conferences to make
            direct contact with the research base. It is also a valuable opportunity to create, to
            cultivate, or to seek to join networks that are active in research fund bidding. We are
            keen to support early career academics to attend conferences (e.g. Alwis, IEEE
            Sensors, Turnbull and Melia).

    (vi)    School ECR forum. This is a school-based discussion group led by an academic
            who has only just ‘graduated’ from ECR status and is an active researcher (Alwis).

 The two research centres have directly invested in ECRs over the period via core funding, pump
 priming initiatives and bridge funding between projects. The Unit has 5 post-doctoral research
 assistants/fellows.

 Exchanges with Business

 As has been mentioned regarding impact, the Unit supports applied research as a matter of
 course. This has led to exchanges and collaborations with a number of businesses, for instance,
 a KTP with a large spirit producer has led to an impact case study.

 A Royal Academy of Engineering Industrial Secondment was won by Zhang in 2019. The
 secondment was 0.5 FTE for 12 months at Intelligent Wood Systems (IWS), part of the
 Glenalmond Timber company in Perth, Scotland. IWS had equipment and corresponding
 engineered wood product expertise to support Zhang’s work on pre-stressed bamboo-timber
 composite beams.

 The industrial secondment has since led to the appointment of IWS staff (Cleverly) as a visiting
 professor, thereby enhancing industry and research-led teaching.

 The Unit has also formed a number of research groups, whose collective expertise and industry
 profile has led to a high number of exchanges.

 CWST is a large-scale testing facility housed in an industrial complex. By placing the centre in
 an industrial setting, the findings from this research group have led to frequent exchanges with
 industry.

 STRC is another group which allows strong links with companies and international partners
 through its Advisory Board, Honorary Research Fellows and Associates. For example, STRC
 has recently appointed Dr Carol Marsh (FIeT, Deputy Head of Electronics Engineering,
 Leonardo) as an industrial visiting professor.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate Research Students (PGR)

 In 2019/20, there were 22 PGR students in SEBE. Staff in UoA12 have supervised 8 ENU PhDs
 to completion in the period. The year by year breakdown is shown in Fig. 4 (and should be read
 in conjunction with the relatively large number of recently appointed Category A staff, as
 depicted in Fig. 1).

                                               4

                                               3
                             PhD Completions
                                               2

                                               1

                                               0
                                                   14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19
                                                                Year

 Fig. 4 Number of PhDs completed at ENU by staff aligned with UoA12 by year.

 As a key part in the creation of a vibrant research environment, we plan to grow our PGR
 student population by 10% per annum over the next period. The new strategy and focus of
 research in UoA12 has already led to a rise in PhD applications. An interim target of a SEBE
 PGR population of 29 has been set for 2022/23, with a proportionate increase in this Unit of
 approximately 10% p.a.

 PGR Recruitment

 In the period, the unit has aimed to increase student numbers, to provide more student finance
 support, and to increase international PGRS collaborations.

 PGR student recruitment has enjoyed internal support via 7 Anniversary scholarships for fees
 and stipends between 2015-2019. The Unit has also had success in achieving a number of
 specific, project related PGR students (Forestry Commission Scotland, Energy Technology
 Partnership Data Lab, SEPA), and more recently has recruited to unfunded positions through
 direct contact and advertising on FindaPhD, marking the desirability of PGR study with UoA12
 staff.

 International PGR student activity has been facilitated through a memorandum of understanding
 with Ningbo University in China to jointly supervise PhD students (registered at ENU) in the field
 of transport. The students receive a 50% fee waiver.

 This is the first of a number of strategic partnerships that the School plans to broker with other
 international institutions to boost PGR student numbers. For example, we have begun research
 student collaborations with another five Chinese universities, all of which will operate under ENU
 research degree regulatory and supervision frameworks. In this scheme, research students are
 jointly supervised by both our staff and faculty staff at the partner institution. Fee income is
 shared while the award remains an ENU degree.

 One of the benefits of these international collaborations is the potential for more extensive
 academic cooperation between the two institutions, for example joint publications assume
 greater importance. At this stage we have joint supervision agreements with Shanghai University
 of Engineering Science (SUES), Dongguan University of Technology (DGUT), Guangxi

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Science and Technology (GXUST), Shanghai Normal University (SHNU) and
 Zhongkai University of Agriculture and Engineering. We have already welcomed two PGR
 students to the scheme, one each from SUES and DGUT.

 Muneer secured competitive funding for a PhD student from the Energy Technology
 Partnership, which is an alliance of thirteen independent Scottish universities and the largest
 power and energy research partnership in Europe. Led by ENU, the award was won in
 conjunction with the Wood Group and Heriot-Watt University.

 Support and Development for PGR Students

 Monitoring and support mechanisms have been introduced in response to feedback received
 both directly and via the institutional PRES survey. They target subject specific research
 capabilities and more generic skills needed by a successful research leader.

 Monitoring of research student progress is managed locally by a school-wide Research Degrees
 Committee, chaired by Fonzone, the PGR lead for the School. Progression protocols are
 handled under a University-wide scheme, as set out in REF5a.

 SEBE holds an annual two-day PGR conference, usually at an external education or team-
 building facility. Research supervisors are active participants. It also holds a School research
 seminar every fortnight, at which PGR students give presentations on their work to their peers,
 staff and external visitors.

 SEBE organises writing groups and ‘off campus’ research retreat weekends. These events are
 part of a wider initiative to mentor and support PGR students to co-author papers with their
 supervisors, and have led to students publishing two or more refereed journal papers, supporting
 thesis submissions. SEBE has also instigated an annual paper-writing prize competition to
 encourage high quality authorship.

 We have also awarded monies from a hardship fund (£8,000 in 2020) in response to COVID-19,
 and previously to assist students in financial difficulty (Donker, Du; c £14,000), to ensure
 talented researchers can realise their ambitions.

 SEBE uses RPG funds to support PGR attendance at external courses, for example training in
 the use of SPSS. Resourcefully, two research students (Gharavi, Islam) requested to attend a
 course on LaTex with the intention of delivering the same course to the entire SEBE PGR
 student population. SEBE supported them in this endeavour.

 Research students can also access funds for conference attendance, and supervisors help PGR
 students to select the most useful events based on the quality of the conference, the likelihood
 of a subsequent publication, and years into the registration period (priority being given to
 students closer to submission) (e.g. Livingstone, Turnbull, Melia, Bernal).

 Equality & Diversity

 SEBE and UoA12 are committed to ensuring all staff and PGR students have equal access to
 research opportunity, and both abide by University policies as set out in the REF5a. Within the
 Unit, research group leaders ensure that sufficient staff can cover others with caring
 responsibilities/maternity leave. There is also a School Inclusion Monitoring Committee, charged
 with monitoring and reporting on equality and diversity matters.

 Equality and Diversity Policy
 Defined at University level, the Unit is committed to E&D policy in relation to:




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   (i)   Selection for REF submission (staff members). This is guided at University level by
         the Code of Practice.

  (ii)   Selection for REF submission (outputs). This Unit has considered only refereed
         journal outputs. Selection from this pool of journal outputs is determined at University
         level by an impartial automated algorithm. The algorithm has been devised to maximise
         aggregate output score within REF and Code of Practice guidelines.

 (iii)   Maternity leave (including returning from). One member of staff has taken maternity
         leave from December 2020. The Unit is committed to covering the individual while away
         and will consider their reintegration carefully based on their needs following their return.

 (iv)    Study leave: As mentioned, Barreto has been permitted study leave in this period, and
         has been appropriately covered in his absence.

  (v)    Disability. The Unit is committed to ensuring relevant support is in place for those with
         listed disabilities.

 (vi)    Protected characteristics. The Unit is committed to ensuring all individuals have the
         support for their specific needs to allow them to perform research.

 (vii)   Flexible working. Although no individuals are currently working flexibly, the Unit is open
         to suggestions to support its staff.

(viii)   Timings of meetings. We avoid early and late meeting times. We have one member of
         this Unit for whom such consideration is important as that colleague has caring
         responsibilities.

 Equality and Diversity Profile
 Selected characteristics of the submitted staff in UoA12:

 Gender: 14% identify as female, and 86% identify as male. All female members of staff are at
 lecturer level. SEBE is keen to encourage women in engineering, having a representative
 (Pantsi) on the local Women in Engineering Society, and being one of only two Schools in the
 University to hold an Athena Swan Bronze Award (awarded 2017).

 Ethnicity: 14% identify as Asian, 54% identify as White, 25% identify as Other, and 7% are
 Unknown.

 Disability: 4% identify as having a disability, 92% identify as having no disability, 4% are
 Unknown.

 Age Profile: 14% are 25-35, 46% 35-45, 18% 45-55, 18% are 55-65, 4% are 65-75.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Income

 Since 2014, £5.3m of research, commercial and consultancy (RC&C) income has been won by
 23 SEBE academic staff working in engineering. It is evident from Fig. 5 that this income is
 predominantly EU industrial funding, mostly income from the South African Paper Products
 Industry, secured by Turner in the period 2015-2017. UK central government bodies are the
 second largest source of income.

 Of the 23 staff members to achieve funding in the period, 9 have retired or left ENU. The 14 who
 remain are aligned with and contribute to UoA12. These 14 staff members brought in £1.56m.
 The main sources of income are now UK central government and the Research Councils (see

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fig.6). The yearly income for the 14 UoA12 staff contingent is seen from Fig. 7 to be variable
 from year to year but with relatively constant average trend over the period.



                              1% 2%                           BEIS Research Councils, The
                                                              Royal Society
                                     6%                       EU government bodies
                           7%
                                            8%
                                                              EU industry, commerce and
                                                              public corporations
                 18%                                          Tax credits

                                                              UK central government
                                                              bodies/local authorities
                                                              UK industry, commerce and
            3%                                                public corporations
                                           55%                UK other sources

                                                              UK-based charities (open
                                                              competitive process)


 Fig. 5. UoA12: Income by busitype, 2014 -2019 (all engineering staff). Total income = £5.3m.




                             5%                                BEIS Research Councils, The
                    8%                        18%              Royal Society
                                                               EU government bodies
              8%
                                                               EU industry, commerce and
                                                      7%       public corporations
                                                               UK central government
                                                               bodies/local authorities
                                                      3%
                                                               UK industry, commerce and
                                                               public corporations
                                                               UK other sources

                                                               UK-based charities (open
                                                               competitive process)
                          51%

 Fig. 6. UoA12: Income by busitype, 2014 -2019 (only staff currently at ENU. Total income =
 £1.56m).




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                                               300,000

                                               250,000




                           Annual income [£]
                                               200,000

                                               150,000

                                               100,000

                                                50,000

                                                    0
                                                         2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020


 Fig. 7. UoA12: yearly research, commercial and consultancy income brought in by current
 UoA12 category A staff.

 Research Income Strategy

 UoA12 has enjoyed the influx of 18 new staff members in the period, who have transformed a
 small group of independent scholars into a vibrant and active research unit. This recruitment has
 allowed us to move into a number of new research areas via new staff members research
 interests. Balancing past performance of established academic staff in UoA12 (see previous
 section) with the enthusiasm and early evidence of potential success of new recruits, we are
 targeting research income of £0.5m p.a. for UoA12 in 2020/21 and an annual increase of 10%
 thereafter.

 We will seek to achieve these targets by increasing the number of KTPs across the School, and
 through targeted support of academics with strong links to industry. School innovation managers
 have been appointed to support this, with responsibility for building industry and other external
 relationships, increasing KTPs and identifying opportunities to generate external research
 income (McCarthy, Harris). Recent successes from these appointments include the award of
 £10,000 from Scottish Ambulance Service for innovation metrics for AI and ML on data sets, and
 robotics in emergency medical services.

 Planned increases in the number and/or value of funding bids will be incorporated into staff
 annual reviews as a part of constructive My Contribution discussions. New academics will be
 encouraged to benefit from REG funding to an internal competitive process that encourages and
 rewards the development of good quality research proposals. In 2019/20 exchequer funds were
 allocated using a new approach and 22 proposals were funded from the 36 submitted, with
 priority given to supporting ECRs.

 Funding has also been ringfenced to support networking opportunities, training and conference
 attendance. All academics will have the opportunity to attend at least one conference a year,
 subject to having a paper accepted for presentation.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The School is further developing its organisational structure of groups, centres and institutes, as
 set out in Section 1. These structures will clarify the context and ownership of research targets
 such as outputs, income and impact.

 Research management across UoAs, is headed up by a School head of research (Yu)
 supported by the directors of the two research centres and a school research and innovation


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 officer. This group makes strategic decisions about the allocation and focusing of internal
 research funds to support conference attendance, small research projects, and PhD
 studentships and research fellow appointments. It also monitors outputs and steers the
 allocation of research time on the basis of what staff have achieved in the previous year.
 Support for knowledge exchange (KE) activities, public engagement and commercial contract
 research activity, is provided centrally through the Research, Innovation and Enterprise Office
 (RIE), and by the school public engagement (PE) champion (professorial level) and KE admin
 staff. This support has led to a significant increase in PE, KE and diverse media engagement by
 staff since REF 2014.

 During 20014-19 the University invested over £5 million in specialist labs and equipment, the
 major contribution being the new purpose test laboratory facilities at Seven Hills on the west side
 of Edinburgh. The Seven Hills facility houses the Centre for Wood Science and Technology
 (CWST), which provides strategic structural test facilities for timber construction, wood science,
 offsite construction prototypes and material analysis.

 UoA12 is the principal user of the School’s physical infrastructure and resources. There are 8
 laboratories spread across two sites (Merchiston and & Seven Hills), the former supported by 5
 technical staff (Laing, Dhonju, Wilson, Campbell, Best). All accommodate staff and
 postgraduate research and undergraduate teaching or project work.

 At the main (Merchiston) site there are laboratories dedicated to heavy electricals,
 manufacturing (including FMC), heat control, fluid mechanics, materials (including scanning
 electron microscope), geotechnics (including cyclic triaxial rig and earthquake shaking table),
 environmental travel (including motorcycle rolling road), large scale structures, fibre optics,
 fabrication and machines.

 Materials Lab: Tescan Vega LMU with Secondary Electron, Back Scatter Electron, Energy-
 dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy and Electron Backscatter Diffraction detectors; Cyclic Corrosion
 Cabinet.

 Nanomaterials Lab: PSI-20 Microfluidiser; LabRAM Acoustic mixer; LAMBDA™ 750
 UV/Vis/NIR spectrophotometer; AR1500 Rheometer; DSC Q2000 Differential scanning
 calorimeter; Zetasizer - Dynamic Light Scattering; Freeze Dryer.

 Geotechnics Lab: Wykeham Farrance Dynamic Triaxial rig; Quanser Shaking Table.

 Structures Lab: Large-scale (3 m x 3 m) Racking Rig; Zwick Rowell Multi Actuator (100kN,
 200kN, 300kN) Servohydraulic (2 m) universal testing frame.

 Timber Lab: Zwick 050 Universal Testing Machine; (5 m x 2 m x 2 m) Moisture conditioning
 chamber; Microtome sectioner.

 Robotics & Automation Lab: Festo FMS (Flexible Manufacturing System) Scaled Festo
 Flexible Manufacturing System (FMS) with 9 networked Siemens S7-1500 PLC’s, Mitsubishi
 Robot Controller and SCADA; NXTone distributed controllers; Festo Robotic and Vision Cell;
 Mitsubishi SCARA Robot Cell, Festo process control rigs with Siemens S7-1500, (vi) Festo
 pneumatic platforms with PLC S7-1200 controllers, Festo (Robotino) Autonomous Robots from;
 Quanser Q-bots.

 Electrical/Electronics Lab: Specialist electrical equipment includes: (i) R&S ZNB40 Vector
 Network Analyzer; LPKF Protomat E44 Rapid PCB prototyping machine; Yokogawa DL850E
 Scopecorder DL850E-Q-HE Portable mixed signal oscilloscope and data acquisition recorder;
 Yokogawa AQ6370D Optical spectrum; Micron SM125 Optical Sensing Interrogator; Anrithsu
 MS2711B Spectrum Analyser up to 6 GHz.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Most laboratory spaces are on the ground or basement floor of Merchiston, all of which are
 accessible to wheelchair users.

 At Seven Hills, we have a 700 m2 high ceiling, pillar-free, wood science and timber research
 facility. The Centre for Wood Science and Technology is based at 7 Hills. Specialist test
 equipment includes large scale beam bending and torsion test rigs and conditioning chambers,
 optical microscopes, and NDT equipment (including sonic and ultrasonic acoustic tools for 3D
 tomography).

 Diamond Light Source, the UK’s national synchrotron facility, located at the Harwell was used by
 researchers in materials group to look at effects of intra- and inter-crystalline swelling agents on
 cellulose nano-fibril production.

 The School has linked with and established new industry and external sector advisory panels,
 involving both private and public sector organisations. These have advised and mentored new
 research and innovation developments towards impactful outcomes. Examples include strategic
 partnerships with the industry-led Construction Scotland Innovation Centre, Forestry and Timber
 Industry leadership group, and the regional transport partnership SESTrans.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations with Other Institutions

 The Unit has benefited from a number of inward visiting academics in the period. These include;
 Professor Claudio Mahler (Federal Universidad Rio de Janeiro), Joan Esteban (Universidad
 Jaume I), Paride Tamburrini (Politecnico di Torino), Marina Miranda, (Universidad de Cantabria),
 Zixuan Li (IAESTE, University of Macau), Associate Professor E J Gago (University of Granada),
 Prof Peiliang Wu (Yanshan University), Prof Qui Yuan (Chinese Academy of Science), and
 Suphitcha Chanruerang (Mahidol University).

 Engagement with Key Research Users

 McWhinnie works with Wyman Gordon (consultants in the aero-space sector) on advanced
 automation control systems. Kerrouche collaborates with Pyreos (a consultancy service) for
 testing and characterisation of novel infrared sensors. Zhang, works closely with Intelligent
 Wood Systems (specialists in bespoke engineered wood products) and has benefitted from
 access to advanced manufacturing capabilities. Recently he has had success in engaging the
 IWS technical director as a Royal Academy of Engineering visiting professor. Dorris has led
 work on nanocellulose production and application with Scottish Enterprise under the High
 Growth Spinout Fund, and development of rheology modifiers funded by IBiolC.

 Contributions to Economy, Society, and the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Infrastructure Engineering
 Work in the area of Infrastructure Engineering covers timber engineering, geotechnical
 engineering, structures, power and renewable engineering. A number of accolades and
 measures of esteem have been garnered, and evidence of influencing the sector accumulated
 over the census period.

 Ridley-Ellis, who heads up the Centre for Wood Science and Technology, and Zhang made a
 key contribution to the award of the 2017 Queens Anniversary Prize for Timber Engineering.
 Barreto is the UK representative on the ICSSMGE Technical Committee, TC105.

 Barreto has sat on five editorial panels, including Geotechnique (2019-), Computers &
 Geotechnics (2017-2020), Proc. ICE Geotechnical Engineering (themed) (2019), and Proc ICE
 Geotechnical Engineering International (2018). Zhang has been on the editorial panel of the
 ASCE, Journal of Civil Engineering since 2018. Muneer has been on the editorial Board of

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future Cities and Sustainable Cities & Society. Ridley-Ellis has sat on European Journal of
 Wood Products since 2018.

 Invited lectures and/or conference keynotes have been given by McDougall at IISc Bangalore
 (2018), Precipitation & Dissolution at KAUST (2016), Fukuoka University (2016) and by Zhang
 at HKUST (2019). Zhang also won a RAEng Industrial Fellowship for a collaborative project
 with Intelligent Wood Systems on engineered timber products in 2019, and best paper prize at
 Wood Science (2017). Cai is a visiting scholar at Queens, Belfast. Ridley-Ellis was invited to
 give Royal Forestry Society’s Lawrence Pilling Lecture in 2019, and a lecture at the Ecole
 Superieure du Bois in Nantes.

 An increasing contribution to the research base is evident from the more than 20 external
 examinations of PhDs, at both UK and overseas institutions, undertaken by Infrastructure
 engineering staff. These include; Marinelli with National Technical University of Athens (2016),
 Barreto with Edinburgh (2019), Sheffield (2018) and Bristol (2017), McDougall with
 Southampton (2015 & 2019), Delft (2016), Bristol (2017), Cantabria (2017), IISc Bangalore
 (2020) and for a professorial appointment panel at King Saud University (2016). Also, Zhang
 with Andhra University (2019), Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (2019) and
 University West London (2017).

 There has been an increase in conference organisation activities in the period, either as lead
 organiser, session chair or scientific committee roles. These include; Barreto via Geoteknik
 (2019), Micro-Macro, Atlanta (2018), Granular Matter, Glasgow (2018), Rains & Rivers,
 Edinburgh (2016), MTGS (2016), GM3 (2019), EMI (2020) and IS-Geo Micro to macro (2019).
 McDougall was session co-chair at XVI ECSMGE International Conference (2015). Zhang has
 maintained a steady involvement with a number of timber/structural engineering conferences,
 including Civil, Structural and Environmental Engineering (2015 & 2019) and Timber Structures
 (2015 & 2019).

 Advisory/expert witness steering group activity have been undertaken by McDougall on the
 Dutch Sustainable Landfill Management Project (2018), Ridley-Ellis on North European
 Network for Wood Science, and TRADA (Timber Research and Development Association) and
 Zhang on Chinese Ministry of Science’s Plan 111 (2017). Many staff (Barreto, Ridley Ellis,
 Tingas, Cai, Vedreno) have been reviewing grant proposals for EPSRC, COST Actions and
 the Carnegie Trust.

 Infrastructure Engineering research has also provided a basis for outreach activities. For
 example, McDougall was invited to present on seismic protection using rubber soil mixtures to a
 special session on the developing World at Edinburgh Science Festival (2019). Ridley-Ellis has
 been instrumental in the Bright Club’s Science Comedy night, and is frequently called upon by
 news media, such as BBC World Service, to comment on timber source quality matters. All staff
 regularly review papers for a wide range of civil engineering journals and in one case, Barreto
 has been awarded ‘Outstanding Reviewer’ status by the American Society of Civil Engineers for
 four consecutive years (2015-2018).

 Smart Technology
 Work in the area of Smart Technology covers Robots and Automation, Sensors, and
 Engineering Design & Materials. As is the case in Infrastructure Engineering, significant changes
 following new appointments have occurred. Only four members of this 14 strong group were
 returned to REF 2014 at ENU (Yu, Langdon, Dorris), and four staff are early career
 researchers. Accolades and measures of esteem have been garnered and evidence of
 influencing the sector has accumulated over the census period.

 Yu won the International Exposition Geneva prize (2015) for his invention on haptic robot
 control. In 2017, Alwis won Australian Water Association award for research innovation. See
 won Bolton University’s Jenkinson Research Award in 2017.


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Yu has been guest editor for 3 special issues on smart manufacturing, and non-linear controls
 in journals such as Energies (2017), and Journal of Mathematical Problems (2014 & 2016). See
 was guest editor for International Journal Antennas and Propagation. Alwis was guest editor for
 MDPI Applied Sciences and Sensors (2019). La Spada, an ECR, is on the editorial panel of
 Journal of Physics D.

 Invited lectures and/or conference keynotes have been given by Taylor as part of Windesheim
 University’s Applied Science Week (2016), and by Yu at Smart Industry Workshop on Robotics
 and Automation in 2019.

 More than 15 external examinations of PhDs, have been undertaken by smart technology
 engineering staff. For example, Yu, with Sussex (2014, 2015, 2018) De Montfort (2014),
 Liverpool John Moores (2016), Northumbria (2016), Southampton (2017) and Central
 Lancashire (2017), and See.

 Researchers in the Unit have been Involvemed in conference organisation activity. This
 includes; Kerrouche, who was part of local organisation of IEEE World Congress on
 Computational Intelligence, and Givaki, who was session chair at Grid Integration (Universities
 Power Engineering Conference) in 2018. Vasantha was on the scientific committee of
 International Conference of Engineering Design, Delft, in 2019, and Yu was General Chair of the
 International Conference on SKIMA, 15-17/12/2016, General co-chair of the International
 Conference on Advanced Mechatronic Systems in Japan 10-12/08/2014 and China 22-
 24/08/2015, and IPC Chair of the EPSRC Network Plus: Industrial Systems in the Digital Age
 Conference 2017 & 2018.

 Advisory/expert witness steering groups. Taylor has recently been appointed to BSI
 Committee GME/21/6 on Human Vibration & Shock. Yu is an EPSRC college member. See and
 Alwis have been reviewing grant proposals for EPSRC.

 Our research has also provided a basis for outreach activities. For example, Taylor has been
 active in the Construction and Built Environment Challenge for local high schools, and
 Kerrouche has put on a Microfluidics show at another local school.

 All staff regularly review papers for a wide range of smart technology journals.




                                                                                         Page 19
