Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Institute of Cancer Research (ICR)

 Unit of Assessment: UOA1 Clinical Medicine

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The ICR’s Clinical Medicine submission incorporates the integrated translational and clinical
 research taking place in the Divisions of Genetics and Epidemiology, Molecular Pathology,
 Breast Cancer Research, Radiotherapy and Imaging, Cancer Therapeutics (which includes the
 Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Cancer Therapeutics Unit (CTU)) and Clinical Studies (which
 includes the CRUK Clinical Trials and Statistics Unit (ICR-CTSU)) and Drug Development Unit
 (DDU).

 On the REF census date, the UOA consisted of 76 independent researchers and their
 associated research teams totalling 611 staff, including 98 postdoctoral researchers, 43
 analytical scientists, 196 Scientific Officers/specialist technical staff and 138 postgraduate
 research students (including 30 clinical research fellows). UOA1 research is critically dependent
 on the co-location and longstanding partnership with the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust
 (RM). 21 ICR Team Leaders, including 14 Professors, hold honorary consultant posts at RM and
 over 70 RM consultants hold ICR Honorary Faculty positions.

 Research strategy
 Our joint ICR/RM research strategy for the period 2016–2021 was published following
 organisation-wide consultation. Our long-term aim is to increase cure rates and improve survival
 with smarter, kinder treatments significantly reducing immediate and long-term side effects and
 enabling patients to live well with, and beyond, cancer.

 The research returned to UOA1, predominantly aligns with Pillars 2 (innovative approaches) and
 3 (smarter, kinder treatments) of our research strategy and includes:
      Discovering new treatments; including those designed to tackle drug resistance and
        cancer’s ability to evolve.
      Designing clinical trials that will help anticipate cancer evolution and adapt treatments as
        drug resistance emerges.
      Developing more effective, convenient and cost-effective forms of radiotherapy with
        fewer side effects.
      Conducting trials to accelerate the development of innovative combination treatments,
        such as the use of targeted drugs together with immunotherapy or radiotherapy.
      Identifying genetic markers that predict how cancer will develop and how it will respond
        to treatment.
      Utilising predictions of treatment response to select optimal therapeutic approach for
        patients.
      Developing new imaging technologies to assess a tumour’s behaviour and metabolism,
        and monitor response to treatment.

 Pillar 1, our fundamental biological research investigating the genetic and cellular mechanisms
 that underlie and drive cancer development and progression, and the response and resistance
 to cancer treatment, is predominantly returned to UOA5. However, interdisciplinary research is
 integral to our approach to creating impact and there are numerous collaborations between
 UOA5 and UOA1 to translate discoveries into patient benefit (see Impact Case Studies). Our
 appraisal systems recognise and reward those contributing to our collaborative and team
 science values.

 Achievement of strategic aims stated in REF 2014
 In our REF 2014 UOA1 submission we said:



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        We would continue to focus on cancer genetics to identify people most at risk and
         epidemiology to increase understanding of how genetics, environmental and lifestyle
         factors interact.

 Achievements: We led international Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) consortia
 identifying common variants influencing risk in various cancers, identified cancer susceptibility
 genes for prostate, colorectal, testicular and paediatric cancers (Eeles, Houlston, Turnbull, Kote-
 Jarai). In the Breast Cancer Now Generations Study, an ICR cohort study of over 100,000
 women to investigate breast cancer aetiology (Swerdlow, M. Jones, Schoemaker), we quantified
 the raised risk in relation to recent childbirth and, reassuringly, found no raised risk of breast
 cancer in relation to night shift work—a highly prevalent exposure in the population that had
 been suggested as a serious public health concern. We (1) developed the CanGene-CanVar
 initiative, which will centralise data and create an interface between the NHS and research
 groups to underpin future expansions in genetic testing; (2) established BRCA-DIRECT, to
 streamline genetic testing services (Turnbull); (3) using capture Hi-C identified putative target
 genes at 33 breast cancer risk loci (Fletcher); and (4) carried out the first UK study to assess
 genetic screening for prostate cancer in the general population, paving the way for a much larger
 study, with 5,000 participants recruited from 70 general practices (Eeles).

        We would expand our capacity in Molecular Pathology and open the National Institute for
         Health Research (NIHR) Centre for Molecular Pathology. Our immediate aim was to
         introduce targeted sequencing to introduce genome level tumour analyses into the clinic
         as rapidly as possible and at scale.

 Achievements: We opened the NIHR Centre for Molecular Pathology (see infrastructure). We
 established the Department of Data Science which works across all ICR Divisions to apply
 computational approaches, machine learning and artificial intelligence to address key questions
 in translational and clinical cancer research.

 We developed a next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel for genetic testing in paediatric
 cancers to guide treatment decisions and this test is now integrated into standard NHS
 practice (Chesler). We also (1) defined gene signatures of translational relevance for risk
 stratification (Sadanandam, Kaiser); (2) designed and validated a molecular risk classifier for
 predicting response to tyrosine kinase inhibitors in sarcoma (Huang); (3) defined the frequency
 of genetic aberrations and their prognostic significance in paediatric sarcomas (Shipley); and (4)
 led on the genomic and epigenomic profiling of over 1,000 paediatric high-grade glioma and
 diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPG) leading to the identification of new therapeutic targets
 (C. Jones).

        Increase our emphasis on the discovery and development of biomarkers, including
         imaging biomarkers. We aimed to improve our capability to carryout pre-clinical imaging
         research by building the Centre for Cancer Imaging.

 Achievements: We discovered and developed biomarkers, for implementation in clinical practice:
 (1) the plasmaMATCH trial, which used liquid biopsy and circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) to
 rapidly genotype patients with advanced breast cancer for therapeutic stratification and showed
 sufficient clinical validity for adoption into routine clinical practice (Bliss, Turner); (2) the TO-PARP
 phase II trial showed the clinical benefit of olaparib in homologous recombination-mutated
 prostate cancer (Hall, de Bono) leading to a practice-changing phase III trial, led by de Bono (see
 Impact Case Study); (3) the TNT phase III trial demonstrated an increased response to platinum
 chemotherapy in BRCA-mutated breast cancer (Bliss, Tutt (UOA5)); (4) we showed that mutation
 tracking in circulating tumour DNA provided early prediction of relapse in breast cancer (Turner).

 We opened the £20M Centre for Cancer Imaging (see Infrastructure). We (1) evaluated and
 quantified magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) biomarkers in brain tumours and paediatric
 neuroblastomas (Robinson, Boult); (2) assessed treatment response using a novel semi-
 automatic technique from whole body diffusion-weighted MRI (DW-MRI) data (Blackledge); (3)
                                                                                        Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 demonstrated that whole-body DW-MRI can be used for assessment of treatment response in
 myeloma (deSouza); (4) provided evidence to support the use of MR elastography in diagnosing
 and staging brain malignancies (Jamin, Robinson, Bamber, Boult); and (5) delivered the world’s
 first treatment with acoustic cluster therapy, a technology in which microscopic clusters of
 bubbles and liquid droplets are used to enhance the delivery of chemotherapy drugs to tumours
 (Bamber, Banerji).

       Our strategy for radiotherapy is to increasingly take account of developments in tumour
        biology and the incorporation of targeted systemic therapeutics as well as the
        underpinning physics. We aimed to focus on the: (1) management of intra-fraction organ
        motion; (2) development of MR-guided Therapeutic Ultrasound and Radiotherapy; and
        (3) advanced treatment planning.

 Achievements: A Magnetic Resonance Linear Accelerator (MR Linac) was funded by a £10M
 Medical Research Council (MRC) award from the Clinical Research Capabilities and Technology
 Initiative (Harrington, Oelfke, Dearnaley, Leach, Nutting (RM)). It combines an MRI scanner and
 a linear accelerator to precisely locate tumours, tailor the shape of X‑ray beams in real-time, and
 accurately deliver doses of radiation to moving tumours—important for treating cancers which
 change position through breathing, bladder filling or bowel movement. This has the potential to
 reduce debilitating and distressing side effects due to normal tissue damage. The introduction of
 the MR Linac technology has been underpinned by advances in physics, engineering and
 computer science (Oelfke, Wetscherek, Blackledge).

 In 2018, we treated the first patient in the UK using the MR Linac and since then over 1,000
 treatments have been completed for more than 80 patients with prostate, bladder, rectal,
 gynaecological, breast, and head and neck cancers, and oligometastatic tumours in the pelvis
 and abdomen, as part of clinical research trials. We are a founding member (one of seven) of
 the international Elekta MR Linac Consortium and provide global leadership for three (prostate,
 breast, cervix cancer) of the nine tumour site groups that are initially being evaluated by the
 Consortium.

 We led practice-changing radiotherapy trials including IMPORT LOW, CHHiP and FAST-
 Forward (Bliss, Yarnold, Dearnaley, Hall, Haviland; see Impact Case Studies). IMPORT LOW
 demonstrated clinical utility of partial breast radiotherapy in women with early breast cancer at
 low risk of local recurrence. CHHiP showed that, when treating prostate cancer, having a higher
 dose of radiation per fraction, across fewer sessions is as effective as conventional fractionation
 and reduced the level of side effects. FAST-Forward showed that for women with early stage
 breast cancer a one-week course of radiotherapy was as effective as the standard 3-week
 treatment schedule.

       The pursuit of new and more effective therapies for cancer would continue to be a major
        aim with a focus on expansion of programmes in cancer heterogeneity and evolution with
        researchers in UOA5.

 Achievements: We developed innovative approaches to tackle difficult-to-drug targets by
 exploiting cereblon-mediated protein degradation (Collins); and developed computational drug
 discovery tools, canSAR and Probe Miner (Al-Lazikani, Antolin, Workman, see Open research
 environment). In collaboration with researchers in the Centre for Evolution and Cancer (UOA5)
 we exploited evolutionary steering to induce collateral drug sensitivity in cancer (Valeri, Banerji),
 and modelled clonal evolution to forecast time to treatment failure (Valeri, Cunningham (RM),
 Hubank (RM)).

 During the REF 2021 period, the CTU discovered three new drug candidates and six ICR-
 discovered drugs entered clinical trials (target shown in brackets): CT900 (alpha folate receptor),
 CYC065 (CDK2/9), BAL3833 (panRAF), SRA737 (CHK1), BOS172722 (MPS1) and EP0042
 (FLT3/Aurora). In total, since 2005 the CTU discovered 20 drug candidates with 11 entering
 clinical trials and one approved (abiraterone). We also discovered chemical probes and drug
                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 candidates for CDK8/19 and the HSF1 pathway (Workman, Clarke); designed chemical probe
 targeting the bromodomains of BAZ2A and BAZ2B (Hoelder, Raynaud); and in collaboration with
 the Structural Genomics Consortium, discovered a series of potent KDM4 (JMJD2) and KDM5
 (JARID1) histone lysine demethylase inhibitors (Bavetsias, van Montfort, Raynaud, Shipley).

 The DDU led the first-in-human trial of capivasertib (AZD5363, AKT inhibitor) and showed that it
 was well-tolerated and achieved plasma levels and robust target modulation in tumours
 (Banerji). Capivasertib is based on a chemical series discovered jointly by the ICR (Collins,
 Workman) and Astex Pharmaceuticals and has now entered phase III trials in three therapeutic
 indications. We also showed proof-of-concept for both single-agent activity, and in multiple
 combinations, of capivasertib in breast and prostate cancers (Banerji, Turner, de Bono). We
 evaluated multiple immunoconjugates in clinical trials, targeting novel and more established
 targets but with agents carrying new payloads (Banerji, de Bono). We contributed to the
 practice-changing development of the first-in-class oncolytic viral immunotherapy leading to
 international regulatory approvals (talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC), Harrington, see Impact
 Case Studies). As a result of the PALOMA-3 study palbociclib combined with fulvestrant is being
 used internationally to treat advanced oestrogen-receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer patients
 who had progression or relapse during previous endocrine therapy (Turner).

 Research plans for the next period:
 We are developing new cross-cutting Centres to provide a platform for interdisciplinary and team
 science collaboration between investigators, both internal and external to ICR/RM, to address
 key areas of the scientific strategy, without changing our Divisional structure:

       Centre for Paediatric Oncology Experimental Medicine (Chesler, Marshall (RM),
        Lancaster (RM), Hubank (RM)) aims to deliver novel treatments, diagnostic tests and
        clinical practice change to children with cancer within the context of hypothesis-driven
        and biomarker-enriched clinical trials, e.g. fadraciclib (CYC065) a drug discovery by ICR
        CTU in collaboration with Cyclacel.
       Sarcoma Research Centre (Huang, Robin Jones (RM), Shipley) combines the ICR and
        RM’s significant strengths in sarcoma research and treatment. The centre connects
        these various teams to ensure a unified research strategy, promote interdisciplinary team
        science and facilitate the training of a new generation of clinicians and scientists skilled in
        translational sarcoma research.
       Centre for Translational Immunotherapy (Melcher) aims to enhance links between
        UOA1 and UOA5 teams working on the immunotherapeutic aspects of cancer research
        and expand the crosstalk between clinicians and scientists at the ICR and RM.
       Radiation Research Centre of Excellence (RRC) at ICR/RM (Harrington, Oelfke, Van
        As (RM)) is a programme of interlinked preclinical and clinical research themes with the
        direct aim of delivering translational clinical studies over the course of the next five
        years. The three major themes are: (1) molecular responses to radiation-induced DNA
        damage; (2) modulation of radiation-induced innate and adaptive immune responses;
        and (3) translational and clinical research.
       Integrated Pathology Unit (Salto-Tellez) at the ICR and RM aims to build the
        infrastructure and support for an integrated research laboratory that cuts across
        technologies and cancer types. Using digital pathology, morpho-molecular diagnostic
        approaches and artificial intelligence, this will enable key research questions to be
        addressed taking the clinical and diagnostic needs as the primary research focus.
       Joint ICR/Imperial College London (Imperial) Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention
        Research Unit (see Interdisciplinary research and responsiveness to national and
        international priorities).
       In the Centre for Cancer Drug Discovery (CCDD, see Infrastructure for supporting
        research and impact), the Centre for Evolution and Cancer (UOA5 researchers) and CTU
        will harness our understanding of tumour evolution to develop more effective treatment
        strategies for cancer therapeutics. The CTU will focus on four themes: (1) non-oncogene


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        addiction; (2) genomic instability; (3) tumour host-interaction, including immuno-oncology;
        and (4) cellular state and plasticity.

 Strategy for impact
 The ICR’s aim is to ensure appropriate and effective exploitation and dissemination of research
 findings to maximise speed to patient benefit. Our key principle is to make an assessment of
 which route to impact would provide the maximum benefit to patients. Routes taken are as
 follows:
       In some instances, we decide patients will be better served by making the
         discovery/technology widely available through publication rather than
         commercialisation.
       Develop our discoveries ourselves. Our approach is to systematically take the findings
         of fundamental discovery research through the translational steps of preclinical
         validation, phase I proof-of-concept studies, liquid biopsy and molecular imaging-
         supported tumour-specific phase II trials, leading to large-scale network-adopted clinical
         trials.
       Set up commercial agreements that maximise ICR researchers’ freedom to operate and
         ability to help multiple companies in the same field to increase the chances of success.
       Work with the pharmaceutical industry to take promising lead compounds through the
         various stages of development, approval and launch on to the market.
              o We aim to sign a collaborative licence agreement rather than simply “selling
                  off” the programme. We find the most effective way of accelerating progress is for
                  the ICR to continue laboratory research to identify markers of response, possible
                  mechanisms of resistance and other indications where the drug might be effective
                  —this research can be critical to the overall success of the drug programme.
              o Monitor progress even after the formal collaboration period ended to ensure that
                  the impact is being realised. If the commercial partner discontinues development,
                  we ensure that the results are returned to us so that we can seek other
                  opportunities to exploit them.
              o Where the lead on commercialisation is being taken by another organisation, the
                  above principles are enshrined in our agreement with them and they are obliged
                  to ensure relevant terms are included in the commercial contracts.
       License directly to a commercial partner where this is likely to lead to faster product
         development, for greater patient benefit, and produces a greater commercial return to the
         ICR.
       Create a spin-out company where this is a better route, for example to commercialise a
         technology or to develop the concept further before commercial partners are willing to
         invest.
              o We founded Monte Rosa Therapeutics which specialises in targeted protein
                  degradation. The company was formed in 2018 by Versant Ventures, the ICR and
                  CRUK (Collins, Professor Raj Chopra, formerly the Director of CTU). An initial
                  $32.5M of funding was announced when Monte Rosa Therapeutics launched
                  publicly in 2020. Monte Rosa announced Series B financing in September 2020
                  ($96M) and Series C financing in March 2021 ($95M).

 We also influence policy (see Engagement with stakeholders to develop impact).

 Relationship to UOA1 Impact Case Studies
 Developing our discoveries ourselves, systematically taking the findings of discovery research
 through translational steps
 Biology researchers (Ashworth, Lord, Tutt (UOA5)) expanded the understanding of BRCA
 function and provided evidence of sensitisation to PARP inhibition in BRCA-mutated cells. This
 led to first phase I trial of olaparib (de Bono, UOA1) and demonstration of activity in breast,
 ovarian and prostate cancer patients. Olaparib is now being used to treat these and also
 pancreatic cancer patients across the world.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Developing our discoveries ourselves, through large-scale network-adopted clinical trials
 Our clinical radiotherapy fractionation research in breast and prostate cancer resulted in shorter
 standard curative radiotherapy regimens being adopted internationally. This resulted in reduced
 side effects, less time off work, savings in travel time and costs and reduced treatment costs for
 healthcare systems—while maintaining very high levels of cancer control.

 Working with the pharmaceutical industry and monitoring progress
 ICR synthesised and clinically developed abiraterone and collaborated with industry to gain
 regulatory approval. The original commercial partner discontinued development, but abiraterone
 was returned to ICR allowing a new partner to be identified and this drug is now transforming the
 lives of men with prostate cancer worldwide.

 Open research environment
 We are committed to making our research available for the largest possible audience for the
 benefit of patients and provide significant institutional support to ensure a high level of open
 access publishing. We are working towards compliance with the Concordat on Open Research
 Data. We provide public access to many of our unique tools and resources. Specific UOA1
 examples are:
     canSAR, the ICR “knowledgebase”, which brings together and integrates data across
         biology, chemistry, pharmacology, structural biology, cellular networks, clinical
         annotations and more (Al-Lazikani, Workman, Antolin).
     Open source drug discovery project, collaborating with researchers at Universities of
         North Carolina and Oxford, and the Chordoma and Mark Foundations, to discover
         compounds targeting brachyury in chordoma (Workman).
     Making available a new series of compounds that could form the basis for drugs that
         target the childhood brain cancer DIPG through M4K pharma, an open access
         consortium of researchers dedicated to finding new treatments for rare diseases
         (Hoelder, C. Jones with the Structural Genomics Consortium).
     As a member of the European Paediatric Soft tissue sarcoma Study Group (EpSSG), we
         are establishing a database containing information from clinical trials on children with
         rhabdomyosarcoma from around the world and making that clinical data available to
         investigators for data mining studies (Shipley).
     Contributing mouse models of paediatric cancers to a European consortium, Innovative
         Therapies for Children with Cancer Paediatric Preclinical Proof-of-concept Platform
         (ITCC-P4), which aims to establish fully characterised patient-derived preclinical models
         of high-risk paediatric solid tumours and to build a sustainable comprehensive platform to
         use these models for drug testing (Chesler, Shipley).
     Locus Explorer, open source GWAS data plotting tool, which produces an interactive
         graphical illustration of genetic associations and their biological context (Eeles).

 Research integrity
 We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of research ethics and integrity. In 2017,
 we conducted a full review and update of the ICR’s Good Research Practice Guidelines.
 Three open discussion sessions were held, each led by a senior academic, on (1) publication
 and authorship; (2) robustness and reproducibility; and (3) openness. All three sessions featured
 substantial research-integrity content and their outcomes fed into revision of the Guidelines,
 which were approved and disseminated in early 2018.

 We completed the implementation of FreezerPro, a Human Tissue Act compliant system,
 adopted by the ICR/RM as the centralised database for sample and tissue information
 management in a joint project to ensure data quality and traceability of human samples.

 A significant barrier to biomedical research and drug discovery is the widespread use of poorly
 selective, or otherwise flawed, chemical probes. The Chemical Probes Portal (£1.5M Wellcome
 Trust Biomedical Resources grant, Workman, Al-Lazikani, Antolin) is a public online resource
 created to provide biomedical researchers with an expert-curated resource to identify the most

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appropriate chemical probes for their experiments. Together the Chemical Probes Portal and
 Probe Miner (Antolin, Al-Lazikani, Workman) aim to reduce the use of poor quality probes,
 promote best practice and increase the quality and reproducibility of scientific research.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 There is no fixed number of teams in Scientific Divisions; Team Leaders are recruited to support
 the aims of the research strategy. Where we wish to cement collaborative working we make joint
 appointments. We offer fractional contracts to grow expertise in particular areas or support
 clinical academic career development. A key part of our strategy to create impact is to recruit
 Team Leaders who have experience of working in industry (10 Team Leaders in this UOA).

 We maintain a healthy and sustainable demographic: in July 2020 our REF-eligible staff fell into
 the following age bands: 26–40 (14.5%), 40–50 (39.5%), 50–60 (27.6%), >60 (18.4%). 100% of
 eligible staff totalling 70.2 FTE have been submitted. This comprises 69.8% on Team Leader
 contracts and 30.2% on research-only contracts.

 We have a bespoke pay policy which enabled the recruitment of senior scientists from the UK
 and abroad and to attract the most promising early career researchers (ECRs). We have a
 strong track record of “growing our own” clinician scientists, identifying talented clinicians in
 training and supporting them successively through NIHR Academic Clinical Fellowships (ACF),
 Clinical Training Fellowships, NIHR Academic Clinical Lecturer (ACL) posts and into Clinician
 Scientists Fellowships or Clinical Career Development Faculty (CDF) positions. ICR funded ACL
 posts in addition to those provided by our NIHR allocation so that more clinicians can stay
 research active after their PhD.

 Those involved in the review of outputs had training covering overview of the REF, responsible
 use of citation analysis, unconscious bias in the assessment of research outputs, and other
 relevant equality issues. Choices of outputs for submission will not be used in relation to the
 promotion or career progression of individuals.

 Recruitment and career progression of Team Leaders
 Over the period of assessment we recruited six tenure track Team Leaders and 11 Team
 Leaders at the tenured, Reader or Professorial level from external organisations.

  Name          Recruited from           Research area
  Cancer Therapeutics
  Dr Gurdip     Charles River Early      Design and synthesis of safe and effective drugs
  Bhalay        Discovery                for the treatment of cancer.
  Dr Astero     University of            Cellular mechanisms of T cell immune response;
  Klampatsa     Pennsylvania             development of novel CAR T cell therapies.
  Dr Gary       Domainex                 Covalent and allosteric medicinal chemistry
  Newton                                 approaches for chemical probes and generating
                                         lead compounds.
  Professor        MRC Weatherall        Impact of chromosomal translocations on
  Terry            Institute of          proliferation and differentiation of cancer initiating
  Rabbitts FRS     Molecular             cells; establishing technologies to target intracelluar
                   Medicine,             proteins, particularly protein-protein interactions,
                   University of         using antibody fragments.
                   Oxford
  Dr Olivia        Vanderbilt            Developing assays to support the drug discovery
  Rossanese        University            process and investigating the underlying biology of
                   (previously GSK)      cancer targets and the response to targeted
                                         therapeutics.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Dr Igor          Memorial Sloan        Interplay between metabolism and cancer cell
  Vivanco          Kettering Cancer      signalling and identifying therapies that target these
                   Centre, New York      interactions.
  Dr Anderson      AstraZeneca           Functional characterisation of DNA damage
  Wang                                   response deficiencies in cancer cells.
  Clinical Studies
  Dr Maggie        University of North   Development of genomics classifiers for tumour
  Cheang           Carolina              subtypes for clinical utility.
  Professor        University of         Design and development of innovative and efficient
  Christina Yap Birmingham               clinical trial designs and analysis.
  Genetics and Epidemiology
  Professor        Genomics England      Application of molecular, statistical and
  Clare            (Queen Mary,          epidemiologic approaches to identify and
  Turnbull         University of         characterise genomic factors related to cancer
                   London)               susceptibility.
  Molecular Pathology
  Dr Alejandra     CRUK Cambridge        Modelling cancer evolutionary processes in
  Bruna            Institute             paediatric brain cancers, with a focus on epigenetic
                                         dynamics.
  Professor      Queen’s University      Molecular and digital pathology, and cancer
  Manuel Salto- Belfast                  biomarker development.
  Tellez
  Radiotherapy and Imaging
  Professor      University of           Evaluating new treatment approaches in bladder
  Nick James     Birmingham              and prostate cancers via large multi-centre clinical
                                         trials.
  Professor        University of Leeds   Activation of the immune system to recognise and
  Alan Melcher                           attack cancer using therapeutic viruses.
  Professor        University of         Oxygen-enhanced MRI biomarkers to guide
  James            Manchester            precision medicine strategies in early phase clinical
  O’Connor                               trials.
  Dr Erik          Weill Cornell         Development of mouse models that accurately
  Wennerberg       Medicine New York     mimic the molecular events triggered by
                                         radiotherapy in humans; and leveraging these
                                         models to identify the molecular mechanisms
                                         involved.
  Dr Andreas       German Cancer         Development of new magnetic resonance imaging
  Wetscherek       Research Centre       techniques for radiotherapy.
                   (DKFZ,
                   Heidelberg)

 We have supported researcher career development internally through ACLs and through
 external fellowships. Dr Magnus Dillon gained a PhD from the ICR in 2018 and went on to
 undertake an ICR ACL. Dr Julia Cockle is completing an ACL in paediatric cancers. Dr Adam
 Sharp joined ICR as an ACL and then won a MRC Clinical Research Training Fellowship. He
 was awarded a Wellcome Trust Clinician Scientist Fellowship starting in September 2020 to
 study translational biology in prostate cancer. Dr Amit Sud completed a CRUK-funded PhD at
 ICR and is now an ACL. Sud’s main research interest is in genetic susceptibility to
 haematological malignancy and the long-term side effects of cancer therapies. Dr Charlotte
 Pawlyn completed a PhD and ACL at ICR; she now holds a CRUK Clinician Scientist Fellowship
 to identify and target the mechanism of acquired resistance in multiple myeloma. Dr Martin
 Kaiser was awarded a Jacquelin Forbes-Nixon Research Fellowship in 2018. Under the
 fellowship, he will undertake a programme of work to identify and characterise the genetic
 changes responsible for the progression of myeloma and why it becomes resistant to treatment.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departures
 During the assessment period the following CDFs moved to more senior roles at other research
 organisations: Dr Gerhardt Attard, John Black Charitable Foundation Endowed Chair in
 Urological Cancer Research, University College London (UCL) Cancer Institute,; Dr Bronwyen
 Shaw, Scientific Director and Professor of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin; and Dr Tim
 Yap, Medical Director, The Institute for Applied Cancer Sciences and Associate Professor,
 University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Centre.
 Senior researchers recruited to leadership positions elsewhere include: Professor Julian
 Blagg, VP Drug Discovery, Azeria Therapeutics; Dr Faith Davies, Director of the Clinical
 Myeloma Program, Perlmutter Cancer Center, New York University; Professor Gareth Morgan,
 Director of the Myeloma Institute, Deputy Director of the Winthrop P. Rockefeller Cancer
 Institute, and Professor of Hematology at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences; Dr
 Michelle Garrett, Professor of Cancer Therapeutics, University of Kent; Professor Caroline
 Springer, Director of the Drug Discovery Unit, Manchester Cancer Centre; and Dr Arthur
 Zelent, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami School of Medicine.

 Staff development
 The ICR has been awarded the HR Excellence in Research award from the European
 Commission since 2010 for its ongoing work in supporting researcher career development is
 defined by the Researcher Development Concordat. The ICR provides a comprehensive
 framework to support the development of researchers of all levels including Team Leaders,
 postdoctoral researchers, scientific officers and students.

 We have a particular focus on the following areas:

 Supporting transition from PhD to postdoctoral researcher and postdoctoral researcher to
 independent researcher
 The Pathway to Independence; Developing Future Scientific Leaders, an innovative residential
 programme, was developed through collaboration between the ICR, the Biotechnology and
 Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) and the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute. The
 programme supports outstanding postdoctoral researchers at the point in their career when they
 are seeking their first independent research position.

 We surveyed our postdoctoral researchers who left ICR between 2009–2018: 93% of these
 alumni are in research, science or education-related roles with over 15% achieving independent
 academic roles including: Birgit Wilding (Boehringer Ingelheim, Austria); Zoe Walters (University
 of Southampton); Cihan Yandim (İzmir University of Economics, Turkey); Maria Vinci (Bambino
 Gesù Children's Hospital, Italy); Stephanie Myers (University of Sunderland); Mark McLaughlin
 (Manchester Metropolian University); Mark Honey (University of Wolverhampton); and Alan
 Jones (University of Birmingham).

 Supporting clinical academics and building capacity locally and nationally
     The ICR and RM partnership is the UK’s largest training centre for oncology, with 30% of
        all consultant medical oncologists in the UK receiving training from the RM and/or the
        ICR at registrar, doctoral or post-doctoral level.
     Pre-PhD, our MSc in Oncology trains medically qualified candidates from across the UK
        and approximately 50% of the UK’s clinical oncologists.
     We established a Molecular Pathology Starter Programme, a six-month out-of-
        programme research experience for UK histopathology trainees. To date, nine
        histopathologists have been trained with two progressing to ICR PhD studentships. One
        of these students, Dr Matt Clarke, won a Gold Medal in the Royal College of
        Pathologists Trainee Research Medal Awards for his PhD research.
     We are part of the Pan London Collaborative Research Fellowship Programme which is
        aimed at clinicians, allied health professionals (AHPs) and clinical research practitioners
        wishing to obtain pre-doctoral research experience. Since its inception in 2016, ICR/RM

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         has hosted nine fellows and been a collaborator in seven other projects. One of these
         fellows was awarded an ICR PhD studentship in radiomics.

 10% of the RM and ICR NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) budget is spent on training
 with the aim of supporting clinicians and AHPs at key transition points along their academic
 career (see Figure 1). We have a strong development programme for clinical researchers, which
 is significantly shaped by their input.

 Activities include:
      Delivered every other autumn, the “Meet the Funders” programme provides clinical
          researchers with an understanding of the funding landscape and the fellowship
          opportunities available to them.
      The Clinical Academic Forum—a network for ICR/RM clinical academics of all career
          stages promoting discussion on current challenges and career ambitions.
      Bridge funding to help make the transition from research degree to clinician scientist.
          Since the scheme began in 2017, we have funded six fellows e.g. Dr Anna Wilkins, ICR
          PhD 2019, was awarded a competitive one-year postdoctoral clinical fellowship at the
          Francis Crick Institute (Crick) followed by BRC bridge-funding. She is now a CRUK
          RadNet Clinician Scientist at ICR and co-PI on a CRUK-funded clinical trial (£1.5M).
      Mentoring from senior clinical academics to support the transitions between clinical
          training and research.
      Post-PhD, the ICR/RM lead the competitive residential programme: “Pathway to
          Independence: clinical academics in cancer research”. This biennial programme provides
          intensive coaching to prepare for academic independence and applications for clinician
          scientist awards. It has been attended by 52 participants nationally since its launch in
          2016. 50% of all 2016 participants now hold clinician scientist fellowships, clinical
          lectureships or principal investigator awards.

 Figure 1: BRC career support and interventions across the clinical academic career pathway




 Research students
 Over the REF period, 196 research students were awarded their research doctorate degree
 within UOA1. This includes MD(Res) students as well clinically-qualified and science PhD
 students. Between 2013 and 2020, competitively won studentships were obtained from
 European Commission, Research Councils, including an MRC industrial CASE (iCASE)
 programme in Enabling Integrated Drug Discovery and UK-based medical charities including
 CRUK and Sarcoma UK. The ICR self-funds studentships and has taken strategic decisions to
 fund all science students for four years to allow sufficient time to complete high-quality research
 projects and skills training, and to match stipends to those awarded by major cancer charities to
 ensure we attract the brightest applicants. The ICR therefore supplements external awards
                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 where necessary. The ICR won funding for a Clinical PhD Programme in Cancer Research from
 the Wellcome Trust (2017, five intake years) and a joint CRUK Clinical Academic Training
 Programme with Imperial College London (2019, five intake years) which includes funding for
 both clinical training fellowships and an intercalated MBPhD programme.

 The Academic Dean’s Team, under the leadership of the Academic Dean (Professor Clare
 Isacke FMedSci) is responsible for the management of all education and training activities and
 ensuring that all students receive appropriate supervision, have adequate resources at their
 disposal during their time at the ICR and keeping a regular check on student welfare. All
 supervisors undertake training in Effective Research Degree Supervision and attend refresher
 training every five years. The ICR Registry supports all aspects of the ICR's research degree
 programmes. Student progression is tracked via a bespoke online iProgress platform and the
 supervisory team have access to this. After one year, PhD students submit transfer reports
 detailing their progress and outlining future plans. An internal assessor, who is outside of the
 project, provides feedback on work achieved so far and plans for the future, and evaluates
 training needs. All students submit a report after two and half years highlighting progress and
 project risks, which is also independently assessed internally.

 Research students, who come from a wide variety of subject and educational backgrounds, are
 provided with two e-learning resources to develop the knowledge and skills that are necessary to
 excel in cancer research. “Perspectives in Oncology” is a modular e-learning website providing a
 basic grounding in cancer epidemiology, cancer genetics, cell biology, bioinformatics, medical
 physics, structural biology, cancer treatment and drug development. “Skills” is a blog-style
 resource giving advice in transferable skills at appropriate times throughout the four years.

 All students participate in mandatory Research Integrity training, which examines the issues and
 practicalities involved in ensuring their research meets the highest ethical standards.

 In the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) 2019, Advance HE’s sector-wide
 survey, the ICR came top nationally (out of 103) for overall student satisfaction rates for
 research degree experience and research culture, with a score of 92% (55% response rate). The
 ICR also performed strongly in other categories including professional development, research
 skills, supervision and resources. The ICR uses this survey to work with the Student Committee
 to continue to enhance the learning experience and student support at the ICR.

 Our goal is to develop future research leaders and to support their careers after their PhD. ICR
 offers a “Succeeding in Academia” programme, delivered by ICR Team Leaders and including
 support for fellowship applications, panel interviews and leadership skills.

 Our student alumni can access career support for up to three years after graduating, and we
 hold regular career development workshops and events as well as alumni networking events, to
 maintain engagement of the community with ICR.

 Over the full REF period, 88% of non-clinical students moved into science-based roles in
 academia or industry as a first destination post-graduation, and 65% of students stayed in
 science-based roles three years post-graduation.

 A 2018 survey of ICR clinical alumni (PhD and MD(Res)) who completed their studies between
 1983 and 2017 showed that 98% of clinicians who studied at the ICR were research active in
 their first role following speciality training with 38% of PhD respondents involved in laboratory-
 based biomedical research in their current roles. For example, Joaquin Mateo completed his
 MRC and Prostate Cancer UK supported PhD in 2016 and received a Prostate Cancer
 Foundation Young Investigator Award to support postdoctoral work. In 2017, he joined the Vall
 d’Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO), Barcelona as Principal Investigator of their newly
 established Prostate Cancer Translational Research Group.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity
 Ensuring an equal, diverse and inclusive culture is of institutional importance for the ICR.
 The Equality Steering Group oversees all our equality programmes and ensures that they are
 integrated, and aligned with the ICR’s other strategies:
      Athena Swan Steering Group (co-chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, Professor
         Paul Workman FRS and Professor Christina Yap). The ICR renewed its Athena Swan
         Charter Silver Award in 2019; we apply as a Research Institute and do not hold
         separate departmental-level awards.
      BAME: Beyond the Statements Project Board.

 We have three equality networks, all run in collaboration with the RM, to strengthen links
 between the two institutions: The BAME Forum, The LGBT+ Network and the Network for staff
 and students with disabilities and health conditions. These groups work with the ICR and RM
 to develop a welcoming and inclusive culture for all.

 The Women in Science Network supports women to reach their potential and to help address
 the inequality in the number of women in the most senior research leadership roles. Topics
 explored include supporting high-performance teams, influencing skills, personal brand,
 leadership, and mentoring. We take career breaks/other circumstances into account in
 recruitment and promotion and “stopping the tenure clock” for those who take career breaks.

 Since REF 2014, we initiated a range of actions including extensive career development training,
 leadership programmes for all staff groups, mentoring programmes, flexible working options and
 improved support for new parents and those with families. Since 2016, we recognise NHS
 service when calculating maternity, adoption and shared parental leave entitlement to support
 clinical academics. Maternity return rates improved from 76% (2012–2015) to 94% in 2015/16–
 2017/18, reflecting the impact of our expanded support for parents. However, as with other
 institutions nationally and internationally, there is a loss of female clinical academics post-PhD.

 In a 2018 ICR survey of clinical alumni, female respondents reported greater difficulties in
 remaining research active. Whilst both female and male respondents stated that greater job
 security in academic roles would enable them to be research active, female respondents also
 prioritised greater support for career breaks and flexible working, and greater visibility of senior
 clinical academic role models.

 We subsequently put support mechanisms in place to address these issues such as the post-
 PhD funding options, and mentoring and support for career transitions (see above). Prior to
 2015, women comprised 33–40% of ICR clinical postdoctoral researchers, compared to 60% of
 clinical PhD students. Following the implementation of our action plan, the gender balance of
 clinical postdoctoral researchers is now in line with the clinical PhD cohort—67% female in 2018,
 60% female in 2020—and two females and two males have progressed to become Team
 Leaders.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 UOA1 received £352.1M of external research income over the REF period (£50.3M mean
 average p.a.), including £190.6M from UK-based charities, £17.1M from Research Councils,
 £63.8M from UK Government and Health Research funding bodies, £34.8M from UK industry
 and other UK sources, £20.8M from EU sources and £25.0M from non-EU sources.

 Strategies for generating research income
 Our research is predominantly funded by the cancer-focussed charities, NIHR and industry.
 In addition to our major infrastructure awards (see below), there is very significant funding from
 CRUK for the CRUK CTU (>£42M over five years) and the CRUK ICR-CTSU (£8M over five
 years), from Breast Cancer Now for the Generations Study (five-year renewal in 2014 for
                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £5.47M and four-year renewal in 2019 for £2.38M), from the Prostate Cancer UK and Movember
 charities for our UK Centre of Excellence (£5.2M) and from Myeloma UK (renewed in 2015
 £5.4M, and 2020 for £2M).
 Many Team Leaders have had programmatic funding in the REF period: ERC Advanced Grant
 (Eeles), CRUK programmatic funding (Al-Lazikani, Chesler, Eeles, Hall, Harris, Harrington,
 Houlston, Huang, Melcher, C. Jones, Oelfke, Robinson, Turner, Turnbull, Valeri, Vivanco),
 Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award in Science (Houlston), and NIHR Professorship (Banerji).
 For details of funding to support collaborative working, see collaborations, networks and
 partnerships below.
 Major benefits in-kind
 Substantial research income in-kind (£77.93M total, £11.13M p.a. mean average) has been
 received from the NIHR over the review period. This comprises £72.41M associated with the
 NIHR BRC at the RM, £3.89M associated with the NIHR Clinical Research Facility and £1.62M
 associated with the ICR/RM Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC).

 The Structural Biology Division is awarded data collection time for macromolecular
 crystallography and small-angle X-ray scattering experiments at the Diamond Light Source in
 Didcot, UK, and the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble, France.
 These facilities provide state-of-the art X-ray beam lines specific for the investigation of
 macromolecular complexes. Moreover, the Division is awarded electron microscopy data
 collection time at the Electron Bio-Imaging Centre (eBIC) at the Diamond Light Source, equipped
 with four Titan Krios microscopes. Researchers in UOA1, led by van Montfort, received access
 time equivalent to £1.04M at Diamond and £79k at the ESRF.

 Through close partnership working with industry on translational research, the ICR has received,
 in addition to direct collaborative research funding, further in-kind income over the review period
 (reported to HESA via the HEBCI survey). Examples include specialist software from Elekta for
 use on the MR Linac platform (£100k) and provision of a diagnostic ultrasound system from
 Canon (£128k), associated with an MRC Developmental Pathway Funding Scheme (DPFS)
 award.

 We close the gap between the dual support of peer-reviewed charity funding for direct research
 costs and the Research England funding streams on the one hand and the full economic costs
 on the other through fundraising/development activities and intellectual property (IP) income. In
 our ICR Operational Strategy we have four programmes to increase income, through
 fundraising, IP, commercial activities and improved cost recovery.

 Infrastructure for supporting research and impact
 The ICR and RM are co‑located on two sites, Chelsea and Sutton. The NIHR competitively-
 awarded BRC, was successfully renewed for a third time in 2017 (£43M). This major benefit in-
 kind, together with that derived from being a CRUK Centre (renewed 2016, £16.1M) and an
 Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre, (renewed following quinquennial review in 2017 for
 £2.56M), enables us to support an infrastructure in which we systematically take the findings of
 fundamental cancer research, cancer drug discovery and radiotherapy and physics through
 translational steps of tumour profiling, molecular pathology diagnostics, predictive and
 pharmacodynamics biomarkers into phase I proof-of-concept studies and molecular imaging
 supported tumour specific phase II clinical trials. Transition into large-scale network-adopted
 clinical trials is facilitated by the CRUK-funded, National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI)-
 accredited, ICR-CTSU, which has particular expertise in radiotherapy, breast, and urology trials.
 The CTU is equipped with compound libraries and high-throughput compound screening
 facilities to support our drug discovery research.

 We have opened two new buildings since 2013:


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The joint ICR and RM NIHR Centre for Molecular Pathology (CMP) is an example of
 collaborative use of infrastructure (£18.2M). The CMP co‑locates clinicians, pathologists,
 geneticists and other scientists, a Clinical Genomics Research and Diagnostics laboratory, a
 translational immuno‑oncology laboratory and a dedicated biobanking facility:
      The BRC Generic Biobank is a stand‑alone, ethically approved sample resource which
         includes plasma collected for ctDNA analysis; it has been pivotal to the delivery of a
         number of key national programmes, e.g. 100,000 Genomes Project, and is available to
         researchers for both discovery and translational studies.
      The CMP Clinical Genomics laboratory (Hubank (RM)) is accelerating the
         implementation of research into routine clinical practice by accurate profiling of solid
         tumours and haematological malignancies to direct treatment strategies and is the first
         NHS laboratory to introduce NovaSeq 6000 for high-throughput sequencing.

 The Centre for Cancer Imaging building (CCI) has enabled us to co-locate pre-clinical and
 clinical imaging research and provide totally new animal facilities for the Sutton site (£20M).
       The CCI utilises multi-modality imaging, combining different imaging techniques such as
          MRI and ultrasound.
       An institutional capital funding award from the Engineering and Physical Sciences
          Research Council (£622k, Bamber, Oelfke) supported the purchase of multispectral
          optoacoustic tomography (MSOT) equipment for 3D mouse spectral imaging and a small
          animal radiation research platform (SARRP) for delivering clinically-equivalent, conformal
          radiotherapy to mice for the CCI. This technology enabled MSOT images to be registered
          to various types of conventional ultrasound images, and researchers have shown that
          level of blood oxygenation determined by MSOT imaging immediately before and shortly
          after treatment is a good predictor of tumour response to radiotherapy.

 NIHR Imaging Clinical Research Facility (CRF)
 The RM/ICR CRF (£2.5M) facilitates around 1,000 patient visits for MRI or PET/CT imaging
 across approximately 150 clinical trials in a wide range of cancer types. The facility currently has
 three 1.5T and two 3.0T MRI scanners, four dual‑energy multi‑channel CTs and four PET‑CT
 scanners with on‑site cyclotron. Over the next year, capability and capacity will be increased
 with the introduction of two additional MRI scanners. The imaging research team has already
 installed XNAT, a platform that serves as the core data hub for radiomics and machine learning
 pipelines, in addition to enabling safe data sharing and hosts imaging data from more than 40
 clinical trials within a robust governance framework. The development programme includes
 harmonisation of anonymisation methodology across sites, a web‑based image viewer,
 integration of advanced segmentation tools, support for new data formats, digital pathology
 viewing capabilities, as well as future data integration to support analytics.

 Clinical Trial Units
 Our three clinical trial units combine to provide a complete infrastructure for the leadership and
 management of phase I‑III trials in all tumour types.

 The RM has wards dedicated to the treatment of patients in clinical trials. The Oak Ward
 provides inpatient facilities for patients participating in first‑in‑human trials and the West Wing
 provides outpatient treatment facilities for early to late phase trials.

    (1) The ICR investigator initiated phase I trials team within the joint DDU specialises in
        first‑in‑human trials with a portfolio of over 75 trials open at any one time. They review
        approximately 600 patients and recruit over 300 patients to these trials each year,
        making it one of the largest of its kind in the world. The DDU takes three to four novel
        drugs forward to later stage trials every year, including those discovered at the ICR. We
        have on‑site laboratories for drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics, clinical
        pharmacodynamic biomarkers and cancer biomarkers.
    (2) The UK Clinical Research Collaboration-accredited RM Clinical Trials Unit (RM‑CTU)
        provides oncology specialist trial managers, statisticians and data programmers to

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        manage investigator initiated trials in all aspects of cancer treatment and diagnosis,
        across all tumour types within the RM. There is a particular emphasis on early phase
        studies including radiotherapy/immunotherapy combination studies and cancers of unmet
        need.
    (3) The NCRI‑accredited CRUK-funded ICR‑CTSU provides national leadership of phase II
        and phase III trials of new treatments and technologies (including radiotherapy),
        particularly in breast, urological and head and neck cancers. The ICR‑CTSU enables the
        advancement of research into clinical practice by pulling through early phase trials to
        later phase trials.

 Core Research Facilities
 There has been a major shift, since REF 2014, to maximise investment in equipment and staff to
 provide high-quality facilities and technical support through the formation of a new Core
 Research Facilities unit operating across both sites. ICR invested over £10M in addition to
 funding from the CRUK Centre Core Grant and Major Centre grants in microscopy, proteomics,
 metabolomics, structural biology, genomics and bioinformatics and £5M in equipment for the
 CCDD. We are developing a comprehensive inventory to promote sharing of equipment,
 reagents and services. We have committed £4M for a major upgrade of animal facilities in
 Chelsea and £1.6M for lab refurbishment over the next 12 months.
       The Genomics Core Facility (formerly the Tumour Profiling Unit) provides access to a
        range of cutting‑edge techniques for genomic, transcriptomic and epigenomic analysis. It
        was the first in the UK to deploy the NovaSeq 6000 sequencer, through a collaboration
        with Illumina.
       The Core Bioinformatics Facility is an experienced group of bioinformaticians who
        support teams that do not have their own bioinformatics capability. They ensure quality
        and consistency in data analysis, maximising the value of profiling data and ensuring
        they can be easily integrated through the Knowledge Hub, the ICR’s Big Data platform.
       Secure data storage, which is provided by our resilient and rapid access six-petabyte
        Research Data Storage infrastructure. This is managed by the Scientific Computing
        team who further enable research through the High-Performance Computing (HPC)
        cluster, and through scientific software support and training. Over the REF period, the
        ICR invested in its HPC and Research Data Storage (RDS) services, including the recent
        completion of a full infrastructure refresh (£500k capital investment for HPC, £3M for
        RDS). This recognises the increased demand for machine learning infrastructure
        supports new research capabilities in areas such as digital pathology and provides a new
        hybrid on premise/cloud capability as part of ICR’s Unlimited Computing strategy.
       The newly established translational immuno‑oncology laboratory uses advanced
        imaging techniques and artificial intelligence to determine the impact of the immune
        system on patient outcomes and identify new biomarkers for optimal treatment.
       Our microscopy facilities have the instrumentation and expert staff to support a wide
        range of applications, including time-lapse and super-resolution microscopy. In addition
        to widefield and confocal microscopy, the facility offers access and training on cutting
        edge spinning disk and lattice light sheet microscopes in collaboration with the
        manufacturer 3i.
       The flow cytometry facilities benefitted from recent investment to enhance state-of-the-
        art multiparameter flow analysis for our growing cancer immunology community on both
        sites. Cell sorting is offered as a service and covers a wide range of needs in both
        fundamental and clinical research.
       The joint ICR/RM Mechanical Workshop provides design and manufacture of both
        clinical and research from intricate, high precision items to medium-heavy engineering
        projects. Staff are skilled in electro-mechanical instrumentation, computer design
        software, medical gas, pneumatic, hydraulic and high vacuum systems, with access to a
        wide range of precision equipment and 3D printing.
       Laboratory Support Services provide first-line support to scientists including the
        collection of dirty glassware, wash up and sterilisation, biohazard waste collection,

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        sterilisation and disposal, specialist sterilisation, pure water supply and media
        preparations.

 The ICR Library provides access to over 12,500 journals, with the majority online and the
 remainder through inter-library loan and publisher downloads. It also provides access to
 information, guidance on research data management and expertise to assist and train users in
 making use of the most suitable information available. The Academic Systems team manage the
 ICR's publication management system, Symplectic, which maintains a record of ICR-authored
 publications, and the ICR's outputs repository, which provides free public open access to a
 range of ICR-authored outputs.

 Future infrastructure plans
 The ICR secured a £30M grant from the UK Research Partnership Investment Fund (UKRPIF)
 scheme towards the costs of building a drug discovery facility, the £70M Centre for Cancer
 Drug Discovery. The CCDD, opened in November 2020, brings together over 300 biologists,
 medicinal chemists, pharmacologists, clinicians, data scientists and evolutionary scientists under
 one roof. The 7,325m2 facility includes cutting-edge biology, chemistry and computational
 laboratories, meeting rooms and collaboration hubs to foster cross-disciplinary working and
 creativity.

 RM Oak Cancer Centre will be a new £70M facility bringing together over 400 researchers
 currently dispersed across the Sutton site, with spaces designed to encourage communication
 across different tumour specialties to help speed up the development of new treatments. The
 new facility will include a Rapid Diagnostics Centre and is expected to open in 2022.

 The CCDD and Oak Cancer Centre form the cornerstone of the plans for the London Cancer
 Hub, a world-class cancer research campus and a major boost to the UK’s life-science
 industry and economy as a whole. The Hub can provide up to 100,000m2 of new space for
 private enterprises to share the Sutton site and could ultimately create 13,000 jobs and
 contribute £1.2B to the UK economy annually.

 The joint ICR and Imperial Convergence Science Centre is an example of collaborative use of
 infrastructure. There is dedicated space on the Imperial campus to support joint working both
 through meeting and laboratory space.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 RM Partnership
 The ICR and RM have worked together in partnership for more than a century, and our bench-
 to-bedside-and-back relationship is crucial to conducting research for patient benefit. During
 the REF period, we reviewed the ways in which we work together and signed a new Joint
 Working Arrangement.

 We revised our Honorary Faculty appointment process through which RM staff have a
 formal academic affiliation with the ICR. Full Honorary Faculty status is equivalent to ICR non-
 time limited (NTL) Faculty. In 2015, we introduced a new level of appointment: Associate
 Honorary Faculty to better support those at the early stages of developing their research. As of
 the 31st July 2020 there are over 70 Honorary Faculty and Associate Honorary Faculty, all
 playing a key role in our vibrant research ecosystem and in the majority aligned with our
 translational and clinical research. There are 12 full Professors (Cunningham, Dowsett,
 Johnston, Robin Jones, Koh, Larkin, Nicol, Nutting, Padhani, Paleri, Parker, Popat) and 17
 Readers (Banerjee, Bhide, Brown, Chau, Fotiadis, Hayes, Hubank, Khoo, McNair, Messiou,
 O'Brien, Ring, Rusby, Starling, Thway, Turajlic, Van As).

 We established:


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Joint Research Operational, Strategy and Executive Groups and a RM/ICR BRC
        Steering Committee to award project funding, and systematically review progress
        towards aims.
       BRC Theme Working Groups, combing basic, translational and clinical researchers to
        facilitate new internal (RM/ICR) and external collaborations. Each reports into the BRC
        Steering Committee and is supported by a senior operational manager.

 National Partnerships
 To deliver on our research strategy, we are also building upon many other existing research
 partnerships.

 Our collaboration with the UK ECMC Adult and Paediatric Network is vital for conducting
 early phase trials in a multi‑centre setting to inform and accelerate later phase studies and
 enable rapid recruitment of patients with rare cancers. This partnership is especially important
 in identifying promising novel agents already in use in the adult arena, which may be
 applicable to the paediatric setting, offering the teenage/young adult population the best
 options from both the adult and paediatric drug development programmes.

 CRUK launched an Accelerator Award scheme in 2015 to enable a collaborative approach to
 develop tools and share resources. In 2017, CRUK formed a partnership with Associazione
 Italiana per la Ricerca sul Cancro (AIRC) and Fundación Cientif́ ica de la Asociacion Española
 Contra el Cáncer (FC AECC), opening the scheme up to Italian and Spanish researchers in
 addition to the UK-based teams. To date 21 CRUK Accelerator projects received awards up to
 £5M, and the ICR is involved in the following 10.

 We lead:
   (1) The Advanced Radiotherapy Network (ART-NET) in collaboration with UCL, Oxford,
       Manchester and Leeds through which we are developing, assessing and implementing
       advanced radiotherapy technologies based on stereotactic ablative radiotherapy,
       magnetic-resonance image-guided radiotherapy (MR Linac) and proton-beam therapy.
   (2) The Improving Neoadjuvant Therapy in High-Risk Sarcoma network in collaboration
       with Glasgow, Edinburgh, Birmingham, Milan and Seville, which aims to deliver datasets,
       data mining tools and patient-derived models that will drive the development of a
       stratified medicine approach for personalised therapy in sarcoma.

 We are involved in:
   (3) The Crick-led Accelerator funding for Clinical Research Training Fellows.
   (4) The UCL-led Accelerator catalysing progress in cancer immunotherapy network.
   (5) The Belfast-led national digital pathological and image analysis platform for solid
        tumours.
   (6) The Leicester-led project to accelerate drug discovery through a networked structural
        biology resource.
   (7) The Edinburgh-led project to accelerate functional studies in brain tumour research.
   (8) The Milan-led Accelerator in single-cell cancer evolution in the clinic.
   (9) The UCL-led NCITA: National Cancer Imaging Translational Accelerator.
   (10) The Imperial-led project to accelerate the ability to understand and target complexity and
        heterogeneity in cancer through automated imaging of 3D cancer.

 Following on from the success of ART-NET, we are now part of a new national radiotherapy
 network RadNet underpinned by a £56M programme from CRUK.

 We lead (de Bono) one of two UK multidisciplinary centres funded by Prostate Cancer UK
 and the Movember Foundation charities. This London Centre of Excellence brings together
 leading researchers in a tri‑partite collaboration between ICR, UCL, and Imperial and their
 respective BRCs across different scientific disciplines. The Centre aims to determine how men
 at high risk of prostate cancer can best be monitored to diagnose the disease early, how
 clinicians can tell which men with prostate cancer are likely to develop potentially lethal
                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disease that needs treatment, and how to use circulating biomarkers to personalise treatment
 and respond to early signs of drug resistance.

 The Children’s Brain Tumour Centre of Excellence, joint between the University of
 Cambridge and the ICR (Workman, Chesler, Collins), and with CRUK funding brings together
 world‑leading experts to discover and develop new treatments to tackle brain tumours in
 children. By the end of the first four years of funding, the Centre aims to develop clinical trial
 designs for three new or repurposed drugs.

 International collaborations
 De Bono was a member of the transformative Stand Up to Cancer (SU2C) International
 Prostate Cancer Dream team ($10M), led by Professors Chinnaiyan (University of Michigan)
 and Sawyers (Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre) which delivered a comprehensive
 genetic map of the mutations in advanced prostate cancer. Eeles leads the international
 IMPACT study and co-leads the Pan Prostate Cancer Group which is part of the International
 Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC). Our breast trials contribute to worldwide meta-analyses
 and our radiotherapy trials to international consortia investigating radiogenomic side effect
 predictors. We have strategic involvement in international rare cancer initiatives and
 maximise opportunities for integrated translational research as exemplified by CASPS, a trial for
 alveolar soft part sarcoma that demonstrated clinical activity of cediranib carried out in sites
 across the UK, Spain and Australia. The ICR is one of the founding members, alongside
 partners in Utrecht, Amsterdam, Texas, Wisconsin, Manchester, and Toronto, of the
 international Elekta MR Linac Consortium.

 We participate in internationally collaborative research projects funded by the European
 Commission to develop new medical imaging technologies (Robinson, ter Haar); improve
 patient stratification (de Bono, Eeles, Sadanandam); and develop new cancer drugs for
 paediatric cancers (Chesler), with partners throughout Europe (Germany, Netherlands, France,
 Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Belgium, Sweden) but also in Australia, Israel and the USA.
 Partnerships with American collaborators are further promoted through US federal
 government funding to advance the understanding and treatment of brain and prostate cancers
 (de Bono, Eeles, Houlston, Huang, Kote-Jarai, Somaiah). Our networks also seek to respond to
 challenges faced by Low and Middle-Income Countries by developing new, adapted targeted
 interventions for cancers of particular unmet need through partnerships with researchers in
 Brazil, China, India, Lebanon and Nepal (Eeles, Huang, Sadanandam, Somaiah). Workman is
 Executive Director of the Chemical Probes Portal.

 Interdisciplinary research and responsiveness to national and international priorities
 We signed an institutional level strategic partnership with Imperial to increase the strength and
 breadth of interdisciplinary research we can leverage to tackle the key challenges of cancer.

 The NHS Long Term Plan (LTP) includes the following cancer priorities:
     Diagnose cancer earlier.
     Faster diagnosis.
     Access to personalised care.
     More effective treatments.
     Better outcomes and faster recovery.
     Children and young people aged 5–14 years.

 The LTP and other recent policy reports highlight the opportunities provided by interdisciplinary
 and collaborative research, with cancer identified as a particular area to benefit from
 interdisciplinary collaboration.

 Cancer Research Centre of Excellence (CRCE): The CRCE is a strategic partnership between
 ICR and Imperial to drive forward advances in the detection, prevention, diagnosis and treatment
 of cancer. It was established in May 2016 and acts as the umbrella for joint ICR/Imperial activity.

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CRUK Convergence Science Centre: The CRUK Convergence Science Centre (£13M) at ICR
 and Imperial is bringing together leading researchers in engineering, physical sciences, life
 sciences and medicine to develop innovative ways to address challenges in cancer.

 The Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention Unit: This joint ICR/Imperial initiative is bringing
 together a critical mass of cancer epidemiologists, biostatisticians and population health
 scientists in Imperial’s School of Public Health with the ICR’s expertise in cancer epidemiology
 and genetics and its expert oncologists. The Unit’s founding Director is Professor Elio Riboli.

 Both ICR and RM joined the Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre (AHSC) and
 participated in the successful bid for re-designated by the DHSC as one of the six strategic
 University‑NHS alliances that aim to accelerate the translation of scientific breakthroughs into
 innovative ways of providing patient care. The AHSC, in particular, provides the opportunity to
 accelerate progress towards early detection and prevention

 Engagement with stakeholders to develop impact
 Our research strategy is structured into four Pillars, and the fourth is “Making it Count”.
 Engaging with key stakeholders and members of the public ensures that our research results are
 translated into truly fit-for-purpose innovations and increases our industrial collaborations.

 We expanded our interactions with the business community to ensure that our laboratory
 discoveries can be rapidly developed for the benefit of cancer patients. Our approach focusses
 on early-stage engagement and collaborative research, licensing of technology, establishment of
 spin-out companies, scientific consultancy and co-ordinating with colleagues on public outreach
 and policy work.
     A joint “Science Day” with AstraZeneca was held in November 2019 and brought together
       more than 100 researchers from the ICR, RM and the company.
     All ICR researchers are provided with opportunities to develop commercial and
       entrepreneurial skills. We run workshops on how to develop successful interactions with
       industry and exploitation of IP as well as training in related skills such as public speaking
       and science communication. During the assessment period, almost 200 researchers
       undertook this training.
     Researchers can utilise up to six hours per week of their time for external activities such
       as providing consultancy services for companies or sitting on policy committees and may
       set up these interactions either independently or through the ICR’s Business and
       Innovation Office.
     We are setting up an “Entrepreneur in Residence” programme.
     We engage with small and medium-sized enterprises to help translate their products into
       clinical practice. For example, we undertook the user testing and will assess the accuracy
       of the world’s first handheld blood cell analyser in a controlled clinical environment
       followed by the assessment of the usability and acceptability of the device as used by
       patients in their own homes. The device, developed by Entia Ltd, a spin‑out from Imperial,
       will be used as a home monitoring system for optimised delivery of chemotherapy to
       cancer patients.
     We are one of the two UK Centres of Excellence of the Roche imCORE™ Network, a
       unique international network of 27 leading cancer immunotherapy research institutions
       from ten countries committed to advancing immuno‑oncology research.
     Our ability to conduct “smart” and efficient clinical trials has made us a partner of choice
       for pharmaceutical companies worldwide both for the development of ICR’s drug
       candidates and their own drugs. We are a preferred partner for Phase I studies with major
       pharmaceutical companies such as Astex, AstraZeneca, Genentech/Roche, GSK, Merck,
       Novartis, Genmab, Medivation/Astellas, ESAI, Pfizer, Millennium, Bayer, Taiho and Vertex.
     In 2018, we formed a strategic alliance with CRUK and Merck KGaA. This is a multi-
       project collaboration and licensing deal aiming to progress the discovery and development
       of potential cancer drugs, from target discovery to the nomination of a preclinical drug


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       candidates. Scientists working under the collaboration will also develop new tests to guide
       the selection of patients with specific tumour types to take part in clinical trials.

 The 2020 U-Multirank survey placed the ICR 11th worldwide for the proportion of our publications
 featuring an industry co-author and a UK patent office report showed the ICR filed a higher
 proportion of its patent applications with an industry partner than any other higher education
 institution.

 It is important to ensure that innovative new drugs and treatment regimens can be brought to
 patients quickly and in a manner that is affordable to our healthcare systems. We carried out
 analysis which showed the higher the level of innovation of a cancer drug, the longer it was
 taking to pass through clinical trials, licensing and appraisal for availability on the NHS. We
 hosted a Summer Summit in 2019 bringing together experts from 16 leading academic
 institutions, charities, stakeholder groups and pharmaceutical companies to create a nine-point
 plan looking at practical recommendations to improve access to new cancer treatment and
 published a report (Yap, Workman) which received coverage across the national media and led
 to debate across the among patients and policy makers.

 We highlighted to policy makers the barriers our researchers face in setting up clinical trials in
 children. We worked with others in the paediatric oncology community to raise the problem with
 politicians and policy makers, working with MEPs and MPs to keep the pressure on the
 European Commission through parliamentary questions, and responding to two EU
 consultations. We also worked to raise awareness more widely, running a press briefing at the
 Science Media Centre, and coordinating a joint letter in The Daily Telegraph from cancer
 charities. Ultimately, European regulators listened to these messages and changed the way that
 the EU Paediatric Regulation governing clinical trials is implemented.

 Wider contributions to economy and society
 UOA1 has an outstanding track record in delivering against its mission and taking scientific
 discoveries through to the clinic and thereby improving outcomes for cancer patients worldwide.
 These impacts changed clinical policy, improved outcomes for patients and also had
 considerable economic impact. This success is exemplified by the Impact Case Studies and the
 following additional examples:
       Before 2010, there were no approved treatment options for patients with advanced
         prostate cancer progressing after first-line docetaxel. The ICR was involved in research
         that led to the widespread approvals of four new therapies. The ICR discovered and
         clinically developed the drug abiraterone (see Impact Case Studies). Based on the ICR-
         led phase III TROPIC clinical trial, cabazitaxel is now marketed in over 75 countries with
         sales of 484M Euros in 2019. Data from the ICR-led AFFIRM trial resulted in widespread
         enzalutamide approvals in over 70 countries worldwide. Our trials showed that radium-
         223 improves survival and quality of life for patients with metastatic bone disease,
         reducing the risk of symptomatic skeletal events and hospitalisation.
       An ICR team developed a rapid-capture NGS panel. This panel determines both the
         incidence and the prognostic value of common mutations in paediatric solid tumours—
         including ALK mutations originally modelled at ICR. The ICR is now offering the panel to
         paediatric patients with solid tumours across the country.
       We pioneered a more flexible, patient-centred mainstreamed model for BRCA testing
         whereby patients are consented to testing at a routine oncology appointment by trained
         clinicians. The pathway resulted in around a 4-fold reduction in time and 13-fold
         reduction in cost compared to the tradition genetic pathway.

 Engaging with a diverse community
 Our public engagement strategy stresses our responsibility as a publicly funded higher
 education institution and charity to communicate openly about our work. We focus on engaging
 with schools and local communities in Sutton and Chelsea, encouraging support for projects
 such as the London Cancer Hub and on engaging with undergraduate students to encourage
 talented people into cancer research.
                                                                                        Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Communications and Policy Directorate is responsible for our public engagement and policy
 work. We have a Public Engagement Forum, which has ICR-wide membership and coordinates
 engagement activities. We also have a Science Communication Forum, comprising of
 researchers, which ensures our approach to communication and engagement represents our
 science effectively and supports key priorities for knowledge exchange.

 ICR and RM worked with our BRC Patient Representatives to develop a strategy for our joint
 BRC to engage and involve patients. We have:
     Eight Patient Representatives, one for each of the eight BRC themes and two Patient
       Representatives sitting on the BRC Steering Group.
     An active Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) colleagues network, of approximately 90
       patients, carers and members of the public who contribute to our research in various
       ways (e.g. by reviewing patient information sheets and other documents by email and
       attending public engagement events).
     A Patient and Carer Research Review Panel, which meets quarterly, reviews protocols
       and research material. Between 12 and 20 PPI colleagues from our network usually
       attend the face-to-face meetings of the Panel.
     Patients work alongside our research teams as co-applicants and co-producers.
     Open engagement events, which raise awareness around research developments and
       innovations. Four to five events are organised per year, bringing together scientists and
       75 to 170 patients, carers and members of the public to learn about medical advances
       and innovations in specific tumour types.

 We are initiating new activities, such as the PPI Digital Platform, to ensure patient
 representatives are drawn from diverse groups reflecting the UK population, i.e. young people,
 minority ethnic groups, those with uncommon cancers.

 The ICR recently completed a major review of its public engagement strategy. We received
 feedback from researchers that we should strengthen the focus on engagement with schools,
 and with under-served groups—especially work to reach children from disadvantaged
 backgrounds who might not consider a career in science. We also received feedback from
 BAME staff that outreach activities could play an important role in helping equalise access to
 science. We are therefore included outreach to ethnic minority groups as a key element in the
 forthcoming strategy.

 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 UOA1 researchers winning significant prizes and markers of esteem:
 Three Fellows of the Royal Society (Workman, Houlston, Rabbitts), six Fellows of the Academy
 of Medical Sciences (de Bono, Eeles, Houlston, Rabbits, Swerdlow, Workman) and seven NIHR
 Senior Investigators (Bliss, Dearnaley, de Bono Eeles, Harrington, James, Yarnold), three
 Fellows of the European Academy of Cancer Sciences (Houlston, Workman, Yarnold), AACR-
 Joseph H. Burchenal Memorial Award for Outstanding Achievement in Clinical Cancer Research
 (de Bono), AACR Outstanding Investigator Award for Breast Cancer Research (Turner),
 Raymond Bourgine Award for Cancer Research (Workman), BACR/AstraZeneca Young
 Scientist Frank Rose Award (Valeri), Weiss Medal (Yarnold), Ian Donald Award for Technical
 Merit (ter Haar), Sutton Women in STEM award (Rossanese) and ESTRO Lifetime Achievement
 Award (Yarnold).

 Our involvement in consultations, public policy committees, professional bodies, and charity
 advisory boards allows us to assist in enabling the transition of research evidence into public
 policy.

 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) and European Medicines Agency
 (EMA) committees
 ICR researchers gave evidence to NICE at the Technology Appraisals for enzalutamide (2020,
 James), apalutamide (2020, James), palbociclib (2019, Turner), nivolumab (2016, Harrington)

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and T-VEC (2016, Harrington). Harrington also testified to the EMA Committee for Medicinal
 Products for Human Use as part of the EMA approval of pembrolizumab in head and neck
 cancer and was an expert advisor at the EMA hearings that led to T-VEC’s European approvals.
 Huddart was a member of the NICE Bladder Cancer Guideline development group 2012-2015.

 Funding panel memberships in the period
     NIHR: Advanced Fellowship Panel (Bliss); Health Technology Assessment
       Commissioning Board (Bliss); Health Technology Agency Funding Committee (James);
       NIHR Early Phase Clinical Trials (Yap).
     Breast Cancer Now: Catalyst Committee (Melcher, Turner); Grants Committee (Cheang),
       Risk and Prevention Committee (Houlston).
     CRUK: Clinical Career Committee (Turner, Chesler, Eeles); Clinical and Trials Awards
       and Advisory Committee (Hall); Clinical Research Committee (deSouza, Yap, de Bono,
       Harrington), Early Detection Research Committee (Al-Lazikani); Multidisciplinary Expert
       Review Panel (Oelfke); New Agents Committee (Rossanese).
     MRC: Molecular and Cellular Medicine Board (Fletcher, Houlston).
     Royal Society: Sectional Committee (Workman).
     Sarcoma UK: Research Advisory Committee (Huang, Shipley).
     Wellcome Trust: Biomedical Resource Committee (Al-Lazikani); Genetics, Genomics and
       Population Research Expert Review Group (Turnbull).
     Worldwide Cancer Research: Scientific Advisory Committee (Rossanese).

 Other contributions to wider discipline
 Professor Nick James is a member of the Cross Whitehall Trial Advice Panel run by the Cabinet
 Office (2015–present). The Panel advises on and aims to extend use of trials methodology
 across all aspects of Government. ICR researchers are active in driving research and quality
 standards in clinical trials through: UK Clinical Research Collaboration Registered CTU Group
 Executive Committee (Deputy Chair 2019, Bliss), NCRI Cancer CTU Group (Chair 2013–2019,
 Bliss). At the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic Professor Bliss was appointed onto the NIHR
 Urgent Public Health Group (UPHG), as one of two reviewers of research methodology. The
 NIHR UPHG was established to provide advice directly to the Chief Medical Officer for England
 in order to prioritise and coordinate COVID-19 research. Professor Huddart was a member of
 the Bladder cancer guideline group for the European Society of Medical Oncology in 2019.
 Professor Workman was Deputy Chair for the NCRI Strategy Advisory Committee.

 Professor Turner is the breast lead, Professor de Bono the prostate lead and Professor Turnbull
 the inherited cancer predisposition lead for the Genomics England Clinical Interpretation
 Partnerships, and through these roles shaped the implementation of the 100,000 genomes
 project to better interpret genomic data, which will lead to better clinical understanding and better
 patient outcomes.

 The textbook Cancer Prevention and Screening: Concepts, Principles and Controversies, led
 and co-edited by Professor Ros Eeles, received the Council Chair’s Choice Award at the British
 Medical Association’s Medical Book of the Year Awards 2019.

 Other relevant accolades:
     UK Pharmacology on the Map award recognising the ICR as one of four sites in the UK
        of importance for the discovery of cancer drugs (2015).
     Accreditation by the NCRI Clinical and Translational Radiotherapy Research Working
        Group (CTRad) as one of three Established Centres of Excellence in Academic
        Radiation Oncology (2016).
     Regius Professorship of Cancer Research awarded by Her Majesty the Queen to
        mark her 90th Birthday (2016).
     Queen’s Anniversary Prize for world-leading research in cancer drug discovery and
        development (2017).

                                                                                              Page 22
