Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of York


 Unit of assessment: 33 - Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies
 (A – Music)
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Research vision, context and structure
 Research in Music at York is predicated on an ethos of cross-fertilization between
 composition, performance, music technologies, musicology, and music psychology. In
 2015-16 we carried out a substantial review of our research, envisioning an enhanced focus on
 creativity that incorporates strategic diversification into new areas. 21 research-active staff are
 returned in REF2021, compared to 17 in REF2014. This has also increased capacity for
 research-student supervision, with growth in PGR numbers to an average of 54 p.a., compared
 to 40 for REF2014.

 Our research addresses creativity – one of the University’s seven overarching research themes
 (Institutional Environment Statement (IES), §4) – from three perspectives: creativity in
 contemporary music, in music technologies, and in context across time and place. This is
 embedded in a tripartite structure: the Contemporary Music Research Cluster, the Music,
 Science and Technology Research Cluster, and the Musical Cultures and Communities
 cluster. The integration of theory and practice spans all clusters. We have particular strengths in
 practice research, especially composition (acoustic and electronic), contemporary performance
 practices (often including intermedial collaboration), early vocal performance, and new
 technologies for performance, composition, and recording practices (including networked
 practice, virtual acoustics, live coding, and reverb modelling). Much of our practice-oriented and
 musicological expertise is mutually complementary; musicological research enriches our
 compositional and performance perspectives, with particular analytical and cultural-historical
 expertise in: i) music of the 20th and 21st centuries, including in relation to space, place, and
 identity; ii) editing and archival studies (from early music, through South African jazz, to early
 twentieth-century popular song); iii) research in voice, text, and embodiment (including opera
 and music theatre). The focus on creativity has led to extensive research into the practices of
 music pedagogy – our work in this field has developed significantly this REF cycle. We have
 strategically diversified into aspects of music psychology, music cognition, and musicians’ health
 and well-being directly relevant to extant research, expanding our range of intradisciplinary
 collaboration. While interdisciplinarity has long been embedded in our culture, especially through
 extensive work with researchers in other arts, humanities, and audio engineering, this recent
 diversification has facilitated exciting new collaborations with psychologists, health scientists,
 and computer scientists (section 4).

 1.2 Research strategy
 1.2.1 Strategic review, 2015-16
 In the 2008-14 REF period the Department’s overarching strategy involved: 1) maintaining a
 position at the forefront of international musical scholarship in both practice research and
 musicology, and enhancing identified strengths; 2) increasing impact by developing current
 external partnerships and forging new collaborations; 3) extending the laboratory potential of the
 Department’s studios and auditoria for audio-technology development, recording/production,
 intermedial performance, and experimental studies of audience responses.

 In 2015-16 we reconsidered our work in the context of the changing and diverse field of music
 research. An extensive, future-oriented review, led by the Department Research Committee
 (DRC: 3.2.1), took in all aspects of research: what we were doing, how, and why. All
 departmental researchers (staff and students) participated, alongside reviewers from other York
 departments and external critical friends. We reconfirmed our commitment to York as a vibrant
 centre for research into musical creativity and its significance, but initiated substantial change,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 with an overarching strategy of consolidating and enhancing key strengths while diversifying
 into complementary new areas.

 1.2.2 Strategic outcomes of the review

    1. Structuring research into three clusters: the Contemporary Music Research Cluster
       (cmrc), the Music, Science and Technology Research Cluster (MSTRC), and Musical
       Cultures and Communities (MCC). This was aimed at:
           i)     articulating more explicitly our research strands and enhancing our research
                  profile;
           ii)    identifying areas of excellent research but also innovation and potential, to:
                  focus our work; define priorities for strategic investment; and attract
                  exceptional new researchers;
           iii)   facilitating exchange and collaboration internally and externally, to extend our
                  current research and provide a better basis for securing funding.

    2. A plan for strategic diversification to bring expertise in creative practice into collaboration
       with complementary research in music psychology, well-being, and pedagogy: see
       staffing strategy (2.2).
    3. Explicitly underpinning the above with a commitment to four operational principles
       (OPs):
          1)       researchers should benefit from a supportive environment, enabling research
                   and impact to flourish;
          2)       new collaborations should be fostered within the Department and beyond;
          3)       we should attract new, outstanding researchers, including PGR students, who
                   share our ethos and will develop new initiatives;
          4)       investment should be directly focused to enable OPs 1-3.

 These outcomes led to the following benefits:
    • better representation and sharing of our research. New external collaborators (4.1; 4.2)
       and many potential PGRs have made contact on the basis of our research-cluster
       profiles. The extant, lively programme of twice-weekly research seminars and cmrc
       seminars continues, with home and external presenters. However, additional cluster-
       specific seminars, meetings of research groups, termly all-staff research fora, bi-annual
       PGR Fora, and symposia with external participants have been established. Clusters have
       hosted conferences of international research organizations, e.g. Audio Engineering
       Society 2019; SysMus (International Conference of Students of Systematic Musicology)
       2020: OPs 2-3;
    • attracting 8 excellent new staff to diversify and consolidate research fields (2.2),
       alongside a 20% increase in (already excellent) PGR numbers this REF cycle (2.6: OP3);
    • new collaborative relationships with other York departments and centres, plus new
       external collaborations (4.1; 4.2: OP2);
    • establishing a Department Research Mentoring Scheme (2.3) to support researcher
       development (OP1);
    • developing additional support for research-funding applications, especially through
       leverage of priming funds (3.2.3), leave to develop applications, mentoring, peer review of
       all applications, and a stronger relationship with the support team of the Humanities
       Research Centre (3.2.2: OPs 1 and 4);
    • considerable work on impact development across the Department (1.3; OPs 1-4);
    • establishing Department Research Performance Expectations (2.3; OP1);
    • an explicit strategy for equality and diversity (2.5; OP3);
    • the DRC (3.2.1) taking a much more active and strategic role overseeing departmental
       research (OPs 1-4).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The cluster structure has helped us to articulate the core strands of our research. Importantly,
 given our ethos of integration and focus on creativity, each cluster includes both theoretical and
 practice research. Internal collaboration across clusters is common, especially between
 composers and performers, musicologists/music psychologists and practice researchers, and
 audio technologists and creative practitioners (4.1). In summary, the ‘enhance and diversify’
 strategy has expanded the range of our research, increased vibrancy in the research
 environment, and increased funding (3.1).

 1.3 Impact strategy and support
 Our research has cultural, social, and economic impacts for audiences, arts practitioners,
 arts organisations, and educators, locally, nationally, and internationally. This REF cycle has
 seen a more strategic focus on impact, developed in relation to University policy and support
 (IES §§12-13; §§49-50). Our 2015-16 review initiated a proactive strategy to more fully: embed
 impact in our research; realise its potential; increase the range and extent of activities; and
 support this with better infrastructure. This is exemplified by the submitted ICSs, with their
 significant range of impact activities and beneficiaries enabled by the supportive infrastructure
 and funding described below.
 We appointed a Department Impact Lead, with time allocated within the Department workload
 model (2.4). The Impact Lead serves on DRC, works with staff to identify possible impacts and
 funding, oversees the development of potential impact case studies, and shares good practice
 drawn from external events, University impact fora, and the Faculty Impact and External
 Engagement Group. The Lead liaises with the Humanities Research Centre (HRC) Impact
 Managers (3.2.2), who also directly support impact development, tracking, evaluation, and
 documentation (including for ICSs). In 2016-17 the Impact Lead and DRC ran an impact-scoping
 exercise, involving targeted staff workshops, with input from HRC Impact Managers, to examine
 current and planned staff research and knowledge exchange, consider possibilities for impact
 activities, and identify key areas for development. The 2015-16 review also led to the inclusion
 of impact in Departmental Research Performance Expectations, with staff reflecting on impact in
 their annual research reports and formal Performance and Development Review (2.3).
 Discussion of impact was also included in guidance for the new Research Mentoring Scheme
 (2.3). Strategic planning to optimize impact has been a core part of the development process for
 recent research-funding bids, with input from HRC Impact Managers and the Impact Lead, and
 with review of impact proposals from DRC members.
 Impact is now included in the criteria for application to the Research Leave Scheme (2.4) and
 Research Budget (3.2.1). Music’s public engagement, knowledge transfer, and impact work has
 been supported by internally competitive, dedicated University support totaling £212,022 (3.2.3)
 in addition to external income for impact (3.1).

 This strategic impact development led to a rise in the range and depth of activity. Beneficiaries
 include: amateur musicians and audiences; professional arts practitioners,
 producers/programmers, and venues; broadcasters and journalists; educators; the heritage
 sector; and the audio-technology industry. These categories are all represented across our
 ICSs, ‘South African Jazz Cultures’ and ‘Moving Audiences’. Both are international, cross-
 generational, and intermedial. They typify the departmental integration of practice and
 technological/musicological research. Further examples of impact from REF2021 outputs
 confirm the range across industry, heritage, practice, and audiences: i) Wells’s work on
 convolution reverberation modelling (4.2.2); ii) Brooks’s US public-library sector work (4.1.1.v);
 iii) Suckling’s collaboration with practitioners, schools, and communities (4.2.1). Overall, we work
 directly with over 40 regional, national, and international partners in arts, heritage, media, and
 technology.

 1.4 The Open Research Environment
 The Department provides open access to research wherever possible, and this is supported
 institutionally (IES §§15-17). Textual publications (including pre-prints) can be deposited in
 White Rose Research Online, a repository of the Universities of York, Leeds, and Sheffield.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Many projects start from an ethos of providing the widest possible access to research materials
 and their scholarly mediation: for example, Brooks’s extensive work producing web-archived
 critical editions of WW1 American music has made 2650 songs available as scores with
 scholarly notes and relational links. Other researchers have dedicated websites enabling access
 to the outputs, including open-access repositories linked to certain publications (e.g. artistic
 outputs by Laws, Brooks, and Wells, linked to the book Voices, Bodies, Practices, at
 https://orpheusinstituut.be/en/voices-bodies-practices-media-repository). Wherever possible the
 artistic outputs of practice research are freely available online on our own and/or third-party sites
 (Vimeo, YouTube, audio-streaming).

 1.5 Research Integrity
 Research integrity is explicitly integrated into our research expectations for staff and
 PGRs, supported by the institutional framework (IES §14; §32). PhD supervisors ensure that
 students understand appropriate practice. Institutionally, all 1st-year PGRs complete a
 compulsory ‘Research Integrity Tutorial’. The Arts and Humanities Ethics Committee (AHEC)
 oversees research ethics for staff and students; Music has a representative on it. AHEC
 provides detailed ethics guidelines for humanities staff and students. Additional Music-specific
 guidelines are available on Music’s intranet. Some of our research requires particular attention
 to ethics of practice, data storage, and publication: examples include ethnographic approaches
 in pedagogy research and collecting audience-response data in music psychology projects.

 1.6 Strategy for the Future
 Underpinning our strategy is the drive to maintain the quality and scale of our recent research
 and further its development. Specific aims are to:
     • widen the diversity (EDI) of our researchers and partners (2.5);
     • extend the internationalism of our research (building from the examples in 4.1.1);
     • continue to foster a wide range of partnerships and collaborations. Diversification
         has enabled a stronger focus on digital creativity in music, complementing research in
         York’s Department of Theatre, Film, Television and Interactive Media (TFTI: 3.2.3, 4.1.2),
         and facilitating new non-HEI partnerships (4.2). Cowgill’s recent appointment to the
         institutional, outward-facing role of ‘Champion’ for the University Research Theme,
         ‘Creativity’ (3.2.3), will support this aim. Significantly, our strategies have achieved £321k
         in new external awards since the REF census, for projects in digital humanities, creativity
         and mental health, and music education and inclusion, with both non-HEI and
         international HEI partners;
     • continue embedding impact across the full range of research, identifying and
         supporting new opportunities. A new departmental scoping exercise will run in 2021;
     • to maintain our large postgraduate cohort, support new PGR initiatives, and establish
         additional opportunities for postdoctoral research.


 Section 2: People

 2.1 People
 The Department of Music has 21 research-active staff (18.2 FTE, with open contracts
 accounting for 17.7 FTE): a headcount increase of 24% over last REF cycle. In addition, the
 research community currently includes two postdoctoral researchers and 59 postgraduate
 research students. Our 14 emeritus and visiting staff participate in the research life of the
 Department, attending research events and offering mentoring to doctoral and postdoctoral
 researchers. Three Associate Researchers currently work with us on: music and well-being
 (Bakari-Singer, with Waddington-Jones); music heritage in Country Houses (Troughton, with
 Wainwright: 4.1.2); industry-partnered audio modelling (Brown, with Wells). We regularly host
 international visiting researchers, most recently from the US (Fulbright Fellow), China, and
 Sweden.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Staffing profile and recruitment strategy
 Our strategy is to enhance core strengths in staffing while diversifying into new but
 complementary fields (1.2.1).

 Our staff expertise has been recognized in numerous promotions this cycle: five to Senior
 Lecturer, one to Reader, five to Professor. Three professors were in position at the start of the
 REF cycle, and one (Cowgill) was employed from 2019, consolidating expertise and experience
 in core areas. Excellent international recruitment to new PGT courses that were developed
 alongside the 2015-16 strategic research review provided revenue for additional junior posts to
 foster dynamic new research. We have a distinguished history of research into music technology
 and creative practice and have invested to develop the MSTRC into a substantial entity with
 significant impact. Two appointments expanded extant work in this field by Field, Wells, and
 Eato: Reuben (SL, 2015), with specialisms in composition, live electronics, and coding; and
 Collins (L, 2019), with research on music AI. The appointments of Egermann (L, 2016) and
 Waddington-Jones (L, 2019) brought expansion into music psychology and well-being, again
 providing expertise complementary to established strengths and facilitating collaboration: with
 these posts we envisioned links to ongoing research in creative applications of music-science
 relationships (Reuben), embodiment (Laws, Brooks, and Haddon), pedagogy (Haddon, Field,
 and March), and music and empathy (Haddon and Hutchinson). The success of this strategy is
 evidenced in collaborations outlined in section 4.

 Retirements led to three further appointments, each position reconceived in line with our
 ‘enhance and diversify’ policy (1.2). Conner (January 2020) is an exciting early career
 appointment, underlining the Departmental ethos: her research combines composition,
 performance, and scholarship on word-music relationships in ancient poetry. March (2017) and
 Hutchinson (2019) enhance our profile in 20th/21st-century music theory and analysis, but also
 word-and-music studies, complementing the research of Howell, Brooks, Laws, and Sheil across
 two clusters: cmrc and MCC. Field’s appointment as Faculty Dean (2018) and Sheil’s as Head of
 Department (2018) led to Cowgill’s appointment (2019), extending our research in opera history,
 culture, and politics (Sheil), and digital musicologies (Brooks).

 2.3 Staff development
 Our staff-development processes flow from our vision and strategy (1.1, 1.2). We have
 developed departmental Research Performance Expectations (RPEs), differentiated by
 career stage and produced in line with institutional guidelines (IES §22). The process was led by
 DRC with all-staff input, ensuring shared understanding of expectations, support available, and
 underlying strategy. Formally, the Expectations provide a framework for the Head of Department
 to discuss research performance and development needs in annual individual Performance and
 Development Reviews (PDR). Additional researcher-development measures are designed to
 realise OP1 (1.2.2) and the principles of the institutional Researcher Development Concordat
 (IES §§27-8; Cowgill is a member of the University’s Concordat Implementation Group):

    1. The departmental mentoring scheme is mandatory but informal and supportive; it is
       separate from the PDR process. Guidance is provided on roles of mentors and mentees.
       Staff choose their mentors, with oversight by the DRC Chair. Meetings, usually biannual,
       help researchers to: refine ideas for projects; articulate research aims; identify possible
       funding sources and collaborators; and identify potential impacts.
    2. Further informal peer support operates within clusters. Cluster meetings and seminars
       provide opportunities for staff to experience different models of research planning,
       exchange ideas, confront research challenges, discuss possible external partners,
       receive initial feedback on applications prior to formal DRC review, and clarify practical
       support for staff with protected characteristics.
    3. All staff report annually to DRC, detailing progress, funding bids, and providing a five-
       year plan for research and impact activities. DRC responds with feedback. The reports
       facilitate forward planning for research leave and financial support, but the primary aim is
       to identify strengths, research potential, and other specific concerns, such as EDI issues.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        DRC then acts supportively, deploying resources, providing additional mentoring, or
        relaying needs to the PDR process.

 All new research-active staff have a 25-30% reduced teaching load during probation. They
 are inducted into University research processes by the DRC Chair, and are quickly integrated
 into the research culture through the clusters, seminars, and research fora. Early career staff
 are offered focused training by the HRC and University Research Theme Champions. The
 mandatory Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (IES §29) includes researcher-training
 modules. Postdoctoral research staff are offered tailored support within the York Research
 Fellowship Scheme (IES §20). All staff benefit from the HRC’s lively programme of workshops to
 support the development of researchers; the University’s Researcher Excellence Training Team
 (IES §32); and the University’s research mentorship, coaching, and leadership programmes (IES
 §22).

 2.4 Support for staff
 In line with OPS 1 and 4 (1.2.2), the Department substantially increased investment in research
 this cycle, providing staff with additional funding opportunities (details in 3.2.1) and research
 time.

 The Departmental workload model, developed after the review, protects 40% of staff time for
 research. The model responds flexibly to needs such as additional time for developing impact
 activities. The Department manages its own research leave scheme (IES §23) for leave
 additional to the 40% allowance. Staff are encouraged to apply every three years, with guidance
 setting out criteria: leave is usually for intensive research and/or impact development (including
 funding bids) or finalisation of outputs. It is typically for one term, but DRC approves different
 periods flexibly according to strategic priorities, in consultation with the Department
 Management Team (DMT). Applications are considered by the DRC, with the presence of the
 EDI Chair ensuring fairness. Staff submit post-leave reports to the DRC.

 2.5 Equality and Diversity
 Historically, the staff profile of the Department has lacked diversity and concerns were formally
 noted in the 2015 research review. Some progress has been made, but there is still much to do:
 less than a quarter of staff researchers are female, compared to over 60% of recent PGR
 cohorts; additionally, only one staff researcher is a person of colour, compared to just under
 20% of PGRs. Music observes the University’s EDI policy on under-represented groups and
 abides by good practice. Departmental EDI and Athena SWAN committees (chair: Cowgill)
 monitor, promote, and embed equality and diversity, including in research (IES §36; §37); an AS
 submission (Bronze) taking an intersectional approach to inclusion is in preparation for
 November 2022. EDI is now a standing item on all departmental committee agendas and all
 committee decisions are assessed for their impact on EDI. This includes our selection of outputs
 for REF, which was informed by the University’s equality impact assessment.

 To increase diversity we have focused proactively on recruitment, promotion, and other
 career ‘pinchpoints’. All job adverts include text designed to encourage applications from
 under-represented groups, using language that is as inclusive as possible. Staff are required to
 complete unconscious-bias training before shortlisting and interviewing. Promotion applications
 are now sought proactively from under-represented groups and considered by a departmental
 panel (IES §21). Following LeFanu’s retirement in 2008, there were no female professors in
 Music until Cowgill’s appointment in 2019, but Laws was promoted to professor in 2020, and
 Sheil’s appointment as Head of Department also broadened representation in research
 leadership. Conner’s and Waddington-Jones’s appointments have improved diversity in early
 career research.

 The Department actively supports staff where caring responsibilities and health-related
 circumstances require flexible working (IES §24). DRC considers any type of enabling
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 support, whether special travel arrangements, childcare, respite care, or special equipment for
 disabled researchers, on a case-by-case basis.

 Our outward-facing activities promote diversity, accessibility, and representation. The
 current Music Research Seminar series – now delivered online – includes presentations on race,
 gender, transculturalism, and class, with around 75% non-male speakers and 25% non-white
 speakers. Cowgill’s experience as a member of the Steering Group of EDIMS (UK-wide EDI in
 Music Studies network) and Chair, RMA LGBTQ+ Music Study Group, informs Departmental
 discussion and strategy.

 Outputs produced in this REF period, as well as several current projects and pending funding
 bids (Cowgill, Waddington-Jones, Collins/Reuben) address and/or have applications in diversity,
 accessibility, and inclusion. This is also the case with recent PhD topics, including: participatory
 opera with young people from diverse backgrounds; opera and disability; Western Art Music in
 Metropolitan India; and African American composer Florence Price.

 2.6 Research students
 Our large community of PGRs – currently 59 – is a significant feature of the Department. For
 REF2014 York had the highest number of PhD awards for Music (64, compared to a Russell
 Group average of 26.8 for Music-only submissions). This REF cycle, 63 were awarded. With
 higher registrations since 2017 and excellent completion rates – an average of 95% PhDs
 submitted on time over this REF period, with 100% achieved in 5 of the 7 years – future
 completions will rise further.

 The PGR cohort is hugely dynamic and collegial. Students are engaged in research across
 the full range of staff specialisms, producing practice research submissions as well as theses.
 PGRs often join collaborative projects with staff and/or other students (4.1). Students are
 encouraged to share research in seminars, conferences, and cluster meetings, and to help
 organise events for internal and external communities: recent examples include 3 RMA Study
 Days, the First International Church Music Conference (2017), and SysMus2020. The
 Department supports two Postgraduate Fora per year, organized by PGRs, providing experience
 for external conferences. PGRs lead research-focused reading-and-listening groups and often
 participate in seminars and conferences of the Interdisciplinary Research Centres of the HRC
 (3.2.2) and the White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH: 2.8). New PGR
 students receive inductions from Music’s Chair of Graduate Studies, the Deputy Director of the
 HRC, and York’s Graduate Research School (YGRS: 2.7).

 2.7 Research student supervision and training
 Institutionally, PGR students are supported by YGRS, with records of tutorials, progression
 meetings, and training kept on the University’s ‘SkillsForge’ system. The departmental Chair of
 Graduate Studies oversees PGR progression in accordance with YGRS processes (IES §§30-
 31). In addition to regular supervisory meetings (at least 10 per year), PGRs have an annual
 progression meeting plus a biannual Thesis Advisory Panel (TAP) with at least one academic in
 addition to their supervisor, to monitor progress, agree training needs, and confirm research
 plans. Formal reports are produced, with outcomes agreed by staff and students and monitored
 by a progression-review board. Our excellent completion rates (2.6) demonstrate the
 effectiveness of these processes.

 Research training operates at three levels. Departmentally, students practise presenting work
 through seminars, workshops, and PG Fora. A weekly, staff-led session focuses on articulating
 research aims, questions, and methodologies, with group feedback. Specific skill development is
 provided for small cohorts with common needs (e.g. ethnographic methods; analyzing statistical
 data; recording and production). The HRC and the University’s Research Excellence Training
 Team (RETT: IES §32) provides a rich PGR training programme on topics of cross-disciplinary
 relevance. WRoCAH-funded students (2.8) have an annual colloquium and twelve additional
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 training sessions each year, often open to other students: Music PGRs have particularly
 benefited from WRoCAH practice research workshops.

 2.8 Investment in postgraduate research
 The Department invests in postgraduate scholarships and seeks additional endowments (3.2.1).
 PGRs can apply for part-time Department administrative assistantships, separate from paid
 teaching. In this REF cycle a total of £424,693 was disbursed in scholarships, bursaries and
 assistantships (additional to University and AHRC schemes) – an increase of 37% over the
 previous cycle – helping us to attract high-quality home and overseas PGRs (OP3, 1.2.2). Music
 has recently achieved success in the University’s highly competitive PGR studentship schemes:
 two full Overseas Research Studentships; one Scholarship for Overseas Students; and three of
 York’s China Scholarship Council full PhD studentships. In addition to DRC budget support
 (3.2.1), self-funded PGR students can apply for travel expenses from the YGRS Conference
 Fund and the University’s ‘Santander International Connections’ programme. One-year HRC
 Doctoral and Postdoctoral Fellowships (one of each p.a. for Music since 2014) provide students
 with workspace, research support, and a small grant.

 York is the lead university in the White Rose College of the Arts & Humanities (WRoCAH),
 an AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership (IES §34) for York, Leeds, and Sheffield universities: the
 largest AHRC consortium in the first funding round (2014-18), receiving £19 million. The second
 round (2019-) comprises £14.2 million, with 50% matched funding from the universities, for five
 more cohorts. We have been particularly successful, gaining a high proportion of the Music
 awards granted by WRoCAH’s Creative Arts and Media panel: 16 individual studentships since
 2014. Additionally, Laws was a co-supervisor in a WRoCAH-funded interdisciplinary research
 network (2015-18), with PGRs and supervisors in all three institutions. The Department secured
 a WRoCAH Collaborative Doctoral Award (2019) in partnership with Birmingham Contemporary
 Music Group and MusikFabrik (Cologne).

 WRoCAH students can apply for additional funding for research costs and for Researcher
 Employability Projects with external partners: recent examples include projects at Opera
 North, VoiceScienceWorks (Los Angeles), the British Library, the National Trust, and the
 Creative Music Studio (New York).

 The quality of support and training is indicated by PGR career success. Graduates this REF
 cycle have gained postdoctoral appointments (including a Marie Curie Fellowship (Utrecht), Lord
 Crewe Junior Research Fellowship (Oxford), and a British Library Edison Fellowship), and
 lectureships in the UK (7), Chile, Malaysia, South Korea (2), Thailand, and Turkey. In addition to
 numerous commissions and performances, practice research graduates have gained positions
 on prestigious early career schemes, including: LSO Panufnik Scheme; PRS Accelerate; Hallé
 Leadership Scheme; Creative Europe’s ‘Discovering Young Composers of Europe’ (1 of only 4
 composers selected).
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income Strategy
 We have significantly increased our research income through additional support for bids and the
 infrastructure described below (3.2). The cluster structure, with associated staff development
 and support (2.3, 2.4), has facilitated a rise in applications, while strategic diversification has
 extended the range of possible income sources. These measures have enabled better
 leveraging of University priming and impact-acceleration funds (3.2.3).

 External research funding for Music has increased by over 140% this REF cycle, to £563k.
 An additional £27k does not appear in the REF data: a work package of the ERC project
 ‘ABC_DJ’ (Technische Universität Berlin), designed by Egermann, was subcontracted to York.
 Importantly, embedded in the increase is an upwards trajectory, with annual totals higher in
 recent years. We have applied to a diverse range of funders, with successes including the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, and European sources in Norway, Belgium, and
 Germany. Funding has been achieved in each of the three clusters (e.g. cmrc: Brooks and
 Laws, Belgian funding via Orpheus Institute; MCC: Howell, Nordic Culture Fund; MSTRC:
 Egermann, Volkswagen Foundation – details of these are given in 4.1.1). Researchers across all
 clusters have been co-investigators on collaborative projects: cmrc: Field, CI, AHRC Network,
 ‘Composition as Interdisciplinary Practice’; MCC: Wainwright, CI, AHRC Network, ‘Sound
 Heritage’; MSTRC: Egermann for the above ERC project. Our research diversification has
 involved KTP development, including Wells’s Innovate UK partnership with RRPtv (2018-2020,
 £159,425): 4.2.2.

 Small external grants and fellowships have supported many projects, including: Brooks’s
 research on WW1 American song (Newberry and Hampsong Fellowships); Wainwright’s
 scholarly editions (St Catherine’s College, Oxford; Albi Rosenthal; Bodleian Library); Sheil’s
 Weimar Republic studies (DAAD); and Simaku’s composition research (Brown Foundation).

 Suckling’s prestigious Philip Leverhulme Prize for his composition research was a great
 achievement. Leveraging external arts funding is also vital: every practice research output
 submitted this REF cycle was facilitated by funding not captured in HESA returns. This
 includes commissions, performance fees, touring costs, grants for recording, fees for artistic
 collaborators, etc. Grants from arts-funding bodies (Arts Council England, Creative Scotland,
 PRSF, Heritage Lottery Fund, charitable trusts) have facilitated outputs but also public-
 engagement activities leading to impact (including, but not solely, in the ICSs). Other funds
 come directly from individual performance companies, arts and media festivals, and
 venues/producers: output- and impact-related examples, linked to projects cited in 4.2.1, include
 York Mediale, Hoxton Hall, City of Edinburgh Council, Toronto Symphony Orchestra and the
 Africa Open Institute.

 3.2.1 Departmental Research Infrastructure
 Research strategy is developed and implemented by the DRC, chaired by a senior
 researcher and including the Head of Department, Chair of the Graduate Student Board,
 Department Impact Lead, Chair of the EDI Committee (2.5), and staff at different career stages.
 DRC meets 4 times each year, with subgroup activity as necessary. DRC implements University
 research policies, including Research Performance Expectations (2.3), Research Ethics
 procedures (1.5), the Code of Practice on Research Integrity (IES §14), and the Researcher
 Development Concordat (2.3 and IES §§27-8). As noted in 1.2.2, DRC now takes a stronger role
 in identifying research priorities and support measures, including in relation to EDI. It acts
 supportively to develop research and impact potential in a coordinated manner, managing
 internal review of strategy and planning, the research-leave scheme, the departmental research
 budget, mentoring, and internal peer-review of grant applications. A termly research forum
 facilitates discussion of new University research developments or workshops with a thematic
 focus, e.g. pathways to impact, or funding schemes. DRC reports to the Departmental
 Management Team and the Head of Department. The Departmental Manager and her assistant
 provide administrative support for research. The Department’s Graduate Chair and
 Postgraduate Administrator work closely with YGRS and the HRC (3.2.2) on all PGR support
 and development issues.

 Departmental investment in research has increased significantly this REF period (OP4, 1.2.2).
 Approximately £100k of Music’s annual operating budget is dedicated to research and impact,
 including: PGR bursaries, studentships and assistantships; support for seminars, PGR fora, and
 conferences; Departmental Research Budget. The latter is administered by DRC and supports
 staff research projects. It increased by 150% in 2016 (£8k to £20k pa), operating in addition to
 University Research Priming and Impact schemes (3.2.3). The departmental fund is responsive,
 with no fixed deadline or allowance, thereby meeting a wide range of needs (conference
 presentations, fieldwork expenses, recording costs, etc). DRC also provides funding for PGR
 students to disseminate research. The Department supports the University of York Music Press
 and York Early Music Press. UYMP’s international catalogue includes two York staff composer-
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 researchers (Simaku and Stringer), alongside significant external names (from Lutyens to
 Wishart), but investment here also supports early-career composers, especially current and past
 York PGRs. YEMP's current catalogue includes editions by staff and ex-PGRs (including some
 of Wainwright’s REF2021 outputs).

 3.2.2 Music in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities
 Music sits in the new Faculty of Arts and Humanities (2015: IES §8). The DRC Chair serves on
 the Faculty Research Group, which discusses common research issues, shares good practice,
 and reports to the University Research Committee (URC).

 A&H departments are affiliated to the Humanities Research Centre (IES §46), whose
 commitment to interdisciplinary working as enriching and transformative amplifies the
 Departmental ethos: Music staff collaborate in the HRC’s Interdisciplinary Research Centres.
 The HRC provides extensive help with funding applications and fosters creative partnerships
 (including beyond HE) through regular interdisciplinary events, symposia, and meetings. The
 HRC’s Research Development Manager advises on funding opportunities, the Senior Research
 Coordinator advises on budgets, and the Research Coordinator provides post-award support.
 Two 0.6 FTE Impact Managers and an Impact Administrator provide expertise on approaches to
 impact, facilitate impact-activity training, convene the Impact and External Engagement Faculty
 Group, and support the evidencing of impact and data archiving. Music’s strong relationship with
 the HRC team (1.2.2, bullet 5) has been integral to the increased number and diversity of
 funding bids and impact activity (OPs 1-2).

 3.2.3 Music and the University Infrastructure
 The University Research Committee develops overarching policies and strategies; membership
 includes the A&H Associate Dean for Research plus three Faculty representatives. URC
 developed the University’s cross-cutting research themes (2015: IES §4; §11); Music
 research contributes significantly to the themes ‘Creativity’ and ‘Culture and Communication’,
 including through extensive internal collaboration (4.1).

URC provides research-priming funds for collaborative project development and strategic
capital investment (IES §10). This REF cycle Music has been awarded £85,402 (up 400%
compared to the previous cycle) through competitive application, including for:

    •   ‘Studying the Interaction between Aesthetic Judgement and Emotional Processing of
        Contemporary Music using an Audience Response System’: Egermann and Reuben with
        McCall (Psychology). Led to substantial, externally funded developments (4.1.1.iii).

    •   ‘Representing Rehearsal: Using Interactive Video to Facilitate and Document
        Contemporary Collaborative Music and Theatre Practices’: Laws with colleagues in TFTI.
        Workshops with external practitioners; prototype app development; bid preparation.

    •   ‘On and off the page: Reconstructions and reclamations of text, declamation and music
        in England, America, and Germany at the turn of the twentieth century’: Brooks with
        interdisciplinary collaborators (Switzerland and US). Network events, public seminars,
        and performances, leading to published outputs.

 Additionally, the Department’s external engagement and impact work has been supported
 by internally competitive funding totaling £212,022. This includes small awards, two KTP
 initiation awards with audio-technology companies (one leading to Innovate UK funding: 3.1),
 plus: £43k from York’s GCRF IAA fund, for Eato’s ODA-compliant impact work in South Africa;
 £50k via York’s AHRC Cultural Engagement Fund, for ‘From Score to Sound: engaging
 audiences with new music’ (Howell and PGR, in partnership with Sound and Music); and
 £43,600 from York’s HEIF funding (IES §50) for Hollingworth’s numerous ‘Sing the Score’
 research-informed videos for online public participation during the pandemic.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.3 Facilities
 Extensive Departmental facilities, across sole occupation of four buildings, support research
 activities at every level. Two performance auditoria host the Department-run public concert
 series (4.2.1), facilitating research development and dissemination. The Sir Jack Lyons
 Concert Hall (seating 350) is suitable for solo performance but can accommodate a full
 orchestra or music theatre/opera productions: it is used for performance and audience research
 (e.g. Hollingworth’s recent I Fagiolini projects; Egermann and Reuben’s audience-response
 studies (3.2.3, 4.1.1.iii), and for composition premieres (recently Stringer and Simaku, both
 leading to REF outputs). The Rymer Auditorium (seating 128) was designed for optimum
 frequency response for reproduced sound, facilitating research through experimentation and
 performance, especially in electronic music and sound art. Equipped with surround-sound
 reproduction in various formats, full-wall HD projection, and a Fazioli grand piano, and
 connected to a recording-studio control room, it supports extensive staff and PGR research in
 audio-technology, live electronic performance, electronic composition, intermedial work for
 sound and screen, audience-response studies, and audio/video recording of artistic outputs for
 professional release: e.g. Simaku’s String Quartet No. 5; several of Laws’s piano films.

 The Rymer Auditorium is frequently used for research symposia and live-streamed and/or
 networked research events and performances. Each building has large rooms regularly used for
 research seminars and practice research development, while designated study spaces support
 PGR work. University investment in Music facilities since 2014 (discounting ongoing
 maintenance) has totalled £250k, primarily for instruments and studio upgrades for music
 technology research.

 The University library (IES §39) provides wide-ranging research support, from resources to
 advice on open access. The University of York Sound Archives (UYSA), a joint initiative of
 the Music Department and the University’s Borthwick Institute for Archives, includes over 30,000
 recordings in a variety of media, plus related documents. A 2019 drive to promote awareness of
 Borthwick holdings led to new projects, including: Wainwright’s Elgar research (Wilfrid Mellers
 Collection, publication pending); Cowgill’s ‘InterMusE’ partnership (2020- ) with the Borthwick,
 British Library, Swansea University’s Computational Foundry, and University of Illinois, focusing
 on digital scholarship, community, and performance archives.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration is fundamental to Music research at York, underpinning our ethos of cross-
 fertilization and operating across the Department (between music specialisms), across the
 University, across the UK and beyond, but also across society. Arts practitioners, educators,
 businesses, health providers, and audiences are all involved; not simply recipients, they are
 often co-producers in our research. Our support for interdisciplinarity led to 13 staff and 3
 postdocs participating in internal collaborations this REF cycle, across all Faculties, and
 we have substantially increased the number and diversity of our external HEI and other
 partnerships (1.2, especially OP2): examples in 3.2.3 and below exemplify this.

 4.1.1 Leadership in international research collaboration: key examples across clusters

   i.   Our partnership between cmrc and the Orpheus Institute Research Centre, Ghent – a
        hub for international music practice research – places us at the heart of European
        developments in practice research. Laws and Brooks are two of three UK OI Fellows.
        Both hold additional OI leadership roles (4.3). Laws is PI of the York-Orpheus project
        'Performance, Subjectivity, and Experimentation' (2015-), with five York researchers
        (including one PGR) contributing alongside external collaborators in Music, Theatre,
        Film, and Embodied Cognition, from the UK, Sweden, Belgium, South Korea, and Vietnam.
        This project has delivered £120k external funding to York (European, non-EU) and was
        supported internally (University Priming Scheme). Laws (2016, 2019) and Brooks (2015,
        2020) convened four international symposia as part of this work (with York PGR
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         participation), and York researchers’ outputs include books, articles, and multiple
         conference/keynote presentations, all with linked artistic outputs. These include the REF
         outputs Voices, Bodies, Practices and Performance, Subjectivity, and Experimentation.

   ii.   Howell secured a Nordic Culture Fund grant for ANeMoNE (A New Music of Northern
         Europe), a network of scholars from Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and
         York’s cmrc, including PGRs, researching the characteristics of Nordic Music. Outputs
         include the REF2-submitted The Nature of Nordic Music.

  iii.   Egermann is Co-I work-package leader on ‘Experimental Concert Research’ (‘ECR’),
         2019-21: €1.3 million Volkswagen Foundation funding (€131k to York, including a PGR
         studentship) in collaboration with: Zeppelin University, Germany; Max Planck Institute for
         Empirical Aesthetics, Frankfurt; University of Bern. With expertise from musicology,
         sociology, psychology, cultural policy, audio engineering, and IT, the project examines
         concert experience in the 21st century. This developed from the MSTRC’s priming-
         funded research noted in 3.2.3 (Egermann, Reuben and McCall). That initial project has
         also led to Collins, Egermann, Reuben, and Wells working with York’s Digital Creativity
         Labs (IES §11a) on predictive modelling of emotional response: ‘Musical Creativity and
         Emotional Content’. DC Labs funding has included a one-year PDRA, developing an
         algorithmic tool for composers. These projects all include collaboration with non-HEI
         musicians and audiences (4.2.2).

  iv.    Eato’s MCC project ‘South African Jazz Cultures and the Archive’, with Muller (Africa
         Open Institute) and Makhathini (University of Fort Hare), investigates the musicians,
         musical styles, exile stories, and archival gaps of South African jazz. Part-funded by a
         BA Newton Advanced Fellowship (including studentships), it involved: interdisciplinary
         discussion days and concerts in York (involving PGRs), Johannesburg, East London
         (SA), Durban, and Cape Town; published interviews, recordings, and scholarly texts
         including Eato’s REF output ‘A Climbing Vine Through Concrete’; and extensive public
         engagement and impact (see ICS).

   v.    Brooks’s MCC project ‘Popular Music of World War I’ (with several REF outputs), in
         collaboration with Magee and Bashford (University of Illinois) and the University of Illinois
         Library, included two conferences (Illinois and York, 2015) and a series of co-presented
         UK and US public lecture-performances (including collaboration with the Pritzker Military
         Museum and Library and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra), culminating in the annual
         AMS/Library of Congress lecture and podcast (2017). Support included fellowships (3.1)
         and grants from the AMS and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.

 4.1.2 Collaborative networks and recent developments
 Two AHRC-funded CoI roles exemplify collaboration with external researchers in cmrc- and
 MCC-aligned research, with PGRs involved. Field was CoI in the AHRC network ‘Composition
 as Interdisciplinary Practice’, with a two-day symposium at York (2016): 5 York staff and 15
 PGRs were involved, alongside external participants. Wainwright was Co-Investigator (with
 Jeanice Brooks, Southampton) on the AHRC Network ‘Sound Heritage: Research and
 Interpretation of Music in Historic Houses’, organizing study days (2015-16) on music in 18th-
 and 19th-century British country houses.

 New collaborative developments arose from our staffing policy (1.2; 2.2). Egermann
 founded the Northern Network for Empirical Music Research (inaugural event, York, 2019).
 Waddington-Jones’s internal collaboration (2020-) with TFTI (Maxwell) and the health and well-
 being Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (Knowles) established a network exploring creative
 practice’s application to mortality inequalities for the mentally ill. Cowgill’s project ‘InterMusE’
 (3.3, end) involves UK-US collaboration, while Collins’s AI music projects and outputs involve
 collaboration with computer scientists and practitioners (e.g. Imogen Heap).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2 Collaboration with non-academic partners and contribution to the wider economy and
 society
 Our collaboration with non-HEI partners and substantial contribution to society operates
 primarily in three areas, as follows.

 4.2.1 Collaboration with external practitioners, institutions, and audiences
 Collaboration with external artists is crucial for practice research. Key examples of
 international and national collaborations feeding submitted outputs and ICSs include: Simaku
 with Quatuor Diotima, Hollingworth with I Fagiolini, and Suckling as Associate Composer of the
 Scottish Chamber Orchestra; intermedial projects such as Laws and Hollingworth each with
 theatre- and film-makers, Suckling with sculptor Edmund de Waal and the Scottish Dance
 Theatre, and Eato with the cross-arts Hannah Bruce & Company (UK and SA, including for
 ‘Moving Audiences’ outputs and ICS) and film-maker Aryan Kaganof. Creative projects have
 been developed with support from national organizations (e.g. ACE, Sound and Music, PRS
 Resonate), and in specific contexts (e.g. Hoxton Hall, Aldeburgh Music). Extensive international
 performance/broadcast is noted in 4.3, but practice research has been additionally facilitated by
 international partnerships with festivals and arts organizations including Infecting the City (Cape
 Town), Musica viva (Australia), and Malmö’s Inter Arts Center.

 Our extensive public University Concert Series is an important feature of York’s cultural
 scene. Averaging 48 performances p.a. this REF cycle (audience figures regularly reaching
 300+), plus related public talks and workshops, it disseminates artistic outputs and facilitates
 audience studies (3.2.3) but also constitutes a productive site of knowledge exchange. We have
 fostered close partnerships with Yorkshire arts organisations for research development,
 dissemination, and exchange. Five staff and 21 PGRs presented artistic outputs in the York Late
 Music series this REF period. Eato, Wells, and PGRs have developed projects with York
 Mediale; Eato and (separately) PGRs with York Theatre Royal; Field with Screen Yorkshire.
 Hollingworth and Wainwright work closely with York Early Music Festival and York’s National
 Centre for Early Music (NCEM), presenting performance research and leading regular
 knowledge exchange workshops and study days/talks (with 5 performance PGRs contributing
 this REF period). NCEM has also been a partner for other events, including the international
 conference of the WRoCAH network ‘Expressive Non-Verbal Communication in Ensemble
 Performance’ (‘Together in Music’, 2018), and ‘Words and Music’ knowledge exchange events
 (Brooks, Laws, Marsh; 2014-15).

 Suckling’s project ‘The Magic of Microtones’ (REF output: ‘Post-spectrality’) is indicative of
 research with extensive knowledge exchange across a range of non-HEI partners. Suckling
 worked with the Scottish Chamber Orchestra, schools, and community organizations on public
 and professional perceptions of microtonal music via: i) creative workshops with amateur and
 professional composers and conductors, exploring new software Suckling developed in his
 composition research; a Scottish Chamber Orchestra participatory commission, with Suckling
 involving the public in composing ‘Armistice Bells’ for centenary celebrations; iii) workshopping
 new playing techniques and rehearsal processes for microtonal music with professional
 performers; iv) performance, broadcast and public talks.

 4.2.2 Collaboration with business
 Partnership with business is integral to MSTRC research. Wells’s work on modal analysis of
 reverberation (see REF output) was developed through a Government-funded KTP with RPPtv
 Intelligent Media (3.1), with product development, initially supported by University Priming
 Funds, leading to licence with Nugen Audio and release as the Paragon plugin. Subsequent
 partnership with RPPtv has facilitated a proof-of-concept development of faster high-accuracy
 modal analysis and synthesis. Egermann’s ‘ECR’ project (4.1.1.iii) included a collaboration
 between York Music Psychology Group and Bang and Olufsen, and has led to an academic-
 industry network, ‘Streaming Classical Music and Opera (SCMO)’. Other collaborations involve
 digital art and technology enterprises: for example, ‘PERSONA’ is a research collaboration
 between Wells, a PGR, external electronic artist Gazelle Twin, and two digital creativity
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 businesses – Viridian FX and Kit Monkman Associates – with York Mediale as creative producer
 and funding from ‘XR Stories’, itself a University of York partnership with Yorkshire arts and
 technology companies, with £5.5 million investment (UKRI, ERDF, and business) (IES §11).

 4.2.3 Collaboration with education, health, and well-being organizations
 Research in partnership with external music education organizations focuses on identifying
 issues, support, and resources for learners with complex needs and/or disabilities. This includes
 Waddington-Jones’s ‘Strategies for Musicians and Teachers Working in Learning-Difficulties
 Education’, with Live Music Now and Youth Music (with PDRA), the latter in collaboration with
 NCEM’s Learning and Participation programme. Haddon’s work on instrumental pedagogy
 includes supervising PGRs studying dyslexia in music education. One PGR’s research led to
 membership of the British Dyslexia Association Music committee.

 Waddington-Jones worked with PRSF’s New Music Biennial 2017, Sound and Music, and music
 educators in Hull, investigating the impact of music listening on primary school children’s well-
 being, and collaborative composition in diverse communities. This research into creativity,
 social connectedness, and well-being is now extended in collaboration with Hull York Medical
 School. Egermann was CoI on ‘SINGSVR’, led by Daffern (Audiolab, Electronic Engineering),
 with the Stockholm Environment Institute and community choirs at The Sage, Gateshead. The
 project examined the development of VR group-singing for those unable to participate in person.

 4.3 Contribution to the Research Base and Indicators of Influence
 The following summary indicates the extent and quality of our contribution to Music
 research, nationally and internationally, and notes key examples of influential activity.

 Editorial roles: Brooks is Chair of the Orpheus Institute’s Editorial Board, for their series with
 Leuven University Press: he was responsible for 22 publications in the REF period; Cowgill is
 founding co-editor of the series Music in Britain 1600-2000 (Boydell & Brewer): 18 volumes
 since 2014. Seven more staff serve on editorial boards and/or held editing roles in the period:
 Egermann (2), Field, Howell (2), Laws (2), Sheil, Waddington-Jones (3), Wainwright.

 Nine staff have acted as external assessors for grant/fellowship proposals: Cowgill and
 Field have been AHRC Peer Review College members this REF cycle; others have reviewed
 proposals, including for the Austrian Science Fund, German Academic Exchange Service,
 Volkswagen Foundation, Royal Academy of Engineering, British Federation of Women
 Graduates, and Society for American Music. All staff have reviewed books and articles for
 journals and international publishers, and/or composition/performance for external awards,
 prizes, grants or fellowships.

 Fourteen staff have been involved in organizing international research conferences or
 symposia over the cycle, at York and externally. All staff have given invited lectures or
 keynote addresses, in 26 countries collectively: 18 EU countries (including the UK), plus
 Albania, Australia, China, Russia, South Africa, Turkey, UAE, and US. Significant examples of
 keynotes include: Brooks, AMS Lecture (with Magee and Bashford, University of Illinois), Library
 of Congress, Washington (2017), and his keynote at ElectroFest, New York University at Abu
 Dhabi, (2020); Egermann, ISMIR conference, IRCAM Paris (2019); Haddon, ‘Piano Four Hands’
 symposium, Graz (2019); Howell, 150th-anniversary International Jean Sibelius Conference,
 Hämeenlinna (2015); Laws, Society for Artistic Research conference, Helsinki (2017),
 ‘Performing Indeterminacy’ conference, Leeds (2017), and ‘Hidden Archives, Hidden Practices’,
 Aveiro (2019).

 Cowgill serves as Chair, Royal Musical Association LGBTQ+ Music Study Group (2019- ) and
 Board Member, North American British Music Studies Association (2019- ). Laws is the only UK
 member of the Orpheus Institute Steering Committee.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Seven fellowships (UK, Belgium, France, US) supported staff research this REF cycle. Since
 2014, compositions by staff and PGR students have been performed extensively across
 the UK, in 14 other EU countries and in Canada, China, Japan, South Korea, and the US,
 including by major orchestras and prestigious ensembles such as Klangforum Wien and
 Ensemble Modern. Compositions have been broadcast on national radio in Austria, Chile,
 Estonia, Finland, Germany, Portugal, Spain, and the UK. Staff and PGR performance research
 has been presented across the UK, in 11 other EU countries, and in Australia, Mexico, Russia,
 Serbia, South Korea, and the US.

 PGR students have been honoured through selection for prestigious composers’ schemes,
 fellowships, international residencies (e.g. Banff), and awards, including 3 RPS prizes (2015 x2;
 2019), 2 Britten Sinfonia prizes (OPUS2014; OPUS2018), a YAMaward for Best Children’s
 Opera 2018, an Ivor Novello Award (2020), a TaPRA Postgraduate Essay Prize (2018), a
 Performing Arts Medicine Association Young Investigator Award (2020), and the SOCAN
 Foundation/MUSCAN (Canadian University Music Society) Award (2015).
