Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: Middlesex University


 Unit of Assessment: UoA18 Law


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview and mission

 Within the School of Law and the Law UOA at Middlesex a vibrant and inclusive research culture
 exists, which stimulates and supports all staff, irrespective of their stage of academic career, in
 producing research with real impact. The Law UOA consists of 32 research active staff submitted
 to REF 2021 who, with 3 other colleagues in Law and 10 in Politics, form the Department of Law
 and Politics. This department, together with the Department of Criminology and Sociology, form
 the School of Law.

 The depth and reach of the UOA’s research activity is notable because of the programme of
 expansion and development which made it possible. The UOA had its beginnings in the work of a
 small number of scholars in the Law group of the Business School during the 1990s. That group
 grew rapidly as the result of strategic step-changes reported in RAE2008 and REF2014, which
 showed not only a dramatically improving record of publication but significant engagement with
 outside bodies and proven impact at both national and international level. In REF2014, the Times
 Higher ranking was 35th overall, comprising 23rd for impact and 40th for outputs; GPA 2.76 and a
 research power ranking of 55. 90% of impact in the three case studies was rated 3/ 4*. The unit
 adopted a post-2014 strategy for further growth which has led to the appointment of new
 researchers in key areas, a substantially greater volume of publications, diversification in the
 sources (and an almost six-fold increase in the amount) of research income, a more than three-
 fold increase in PhD completions, and greater influence and impact both nationally and
 internationally. Table 1 summarises these trends.

                          Number of     staff   Income            PhD completions
                          submitted

              RAE2001     ---                   ---               ---



              RAE2008     8                     £63,843           5



              REF2014     22                    £900,000          9



              REF2021     32                    £5,170,157        30



 Table 1: Indices of research growth in Law at Middlesex 2000-2020.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research in Law makes a distinctive contribution to the sector by exploring a nexus of interactions
 between law and society. Researchers combine doctrinal, broader legal and socio-legal research
 with a central commitment to investigating issues of social justice, vulnerable groups, and
 questions of equality, diversity and inclusion. In these respects the UOA reflects a fundamental
 commitment on the part of the University to promoting a better society by pursuing a research and
 knowledge exchange agenda embedded in active engagement with private, public and voluntary
 organisations. Adopting approaches ranging from individual scholarship through to planned,
 impactful teamwork in funded projects, research in Law realises and adds to the University’s
 ambitions and values in fields including public international law; human rights law; international
 criminal law; non-discrimination and employment rights; minority and indigenous peoples’ rights;
 and national implementation of European decisions, especially at a political moment of dangerous
 rule of law “backsliding”. In addition to these subject areas, which already had a proven track
 record in the UOA, researchers have recently also published on medical law, bio-ethics, EU and
 world trade law, banking, bankruptcy, maritime law, arbitration, legal theory, intellectual property
 law, and legal education. Researchers have linked their scholarship to engagement and impactful
 activity involving professional partners varying from international institutions such as the UN and
 major NGOs, through to local organisations and neglected and/or minority communities.

 78 outputs are submitted, chosen from a substantially larger number of eligible publications during
 the REF period. Table 2, which excludes keynote addresses, conference papers, and blog posts,
 gives a breakdown.

                       Output type                         2014-2020

                       Monograph books                     20

                       Edited books                        10

                       Peer reviewed articles              146

                       Peer reviewed chapters              165

                       Reports for national-level and 15
                       international organisations

                       Text books                          6

                       Total peer reviewed publications    362



                       submitted                           78

 Table 2: outputs during the REF period from submitted staff.

 1.2 Research structure University, Faculty and UOA level

 Overall commitment to research at Middlesex is embedded in the University’s mission and policies,
 reported in University-level documentation. Guidance comes from the Research Strategy,
 refreshed in 2015/16 and recently updated to 2031 in response to the appointment of our new


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Vice-Chancellor, Prof Nic Beech. Those aims and values are implemented in policies designed to
 build on demonstrated research excellence: “focused investment” is made in proven fields, of
 which Law is one, as well as in some emergent subject areas; and interdisciplinary enquiry and
 action are encouraged to draw together diverse strengths and connections across the University.
 External engagement is also urged and supported, as being important for an “applied institution
 engaged with tackling complex issues to improve lives”. Public and commercial impact is
 emphasised, both for direct benefits to research users and enhancement of the University’s
 research culture.

 Structurally, these aims and values guide committees and procedures as described in the
 University Environment Statement. The Law UOA adheres to, promotes, and gives practical reality
 to the University’s commitment to sector-level Concordats which are reflected in its comprehensive
 Code of Practice for Research. Key aspects of research conduct, including research integrity, and
 data management and protection, are overseen by specialised committees, each with clear terms
 of reference, lines of reporting to and from each Department, and a quality enhancement brief.

 In 2012, in order to foster academic synergy, 6 University schools were concentrated into three
 Faculties, each with a Deputy Dean (Research & Knowledge Exchange) who oversees
 implementation of policies and values. Faculty-level Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Committees shape strategic ambitions, plans and targets; they have oversight of externally funded
 research, and serve as an essential communication hub on procedure and practice. Faculties are
 supported by a well-established University-level Research and Knowledge Transfer Office
 (RKTO), which also manages external funding for research groups and departments, monitors
 PhD student progression, and arranges an extensive programme of research-related staff
 development activity.

 While delineated by this well-functioning research infrastructure, subject-level priorities and
 policies are set at UOA level. Substantial devolution has been granted for decisions on the content,
 direction and support of individual and team research to the Law research leader (RL), who works
 closely with the Head of Department (HoD). Since many of the UOA’s detailed arrangements were
 introduced as enhancements responding to research growth, the present research environment is
 best understood by describing first some main points of a longer trajectory and in particular two
 transformative moments: creation of a separate School of Law in 2012; and strategic decisions
 following REF 2014.

 Law, a department of the Business School, had not been entered in RAE2001; but in order to
 develop the subject area the University and Business School invested subsequently. By RAE
 2008, Law had become a viable entry, albeit with a modest profile (8 research active staff, 5 PhD
 completions). A number of the UOA’s current researchers (including Howard, Pascoe, and Corkin)
 gained their PhDs either shortly before joining or while working at Middlesex, benefitting from
 support designed to foster organic rather than sudden research growth. From 2007-2008,
 however, Law grew faster following the appointment of Castellino, whose vision, dynamic
 recruitment and other innovations transformed the group into a larger Department engaged
 predominantly in influential theoretical and practical work in international and public law.
 Appointments included Professors to lead thematic areas: Schabas (2011, recipient of the Order
 of Canada, international criminal law); Leach (bringing EHRAC, the Human Rights Advocacy
 Centre, impact case study in 2014 and 2021); and Pech (EU law, impact case study 2021). Other
 developments included promotions to SL and Reader: Wray and Dominguez-Redondo became
 Readers; and Howard was promoted to Reader, then Professor. Combined with growth in staff at
 other levels, such appointments resulted in a greatly enhanced research environment.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Fresh impetus was given in 2012 by institutional reorganisation: the new Department of Law and
 Politics, together with Criminology and Sociology, became a School of Law, with Castellino as
 Dean and Pech as HoD of Law and Politics. The planned benefit of the restructure was to facilitate
 research synergy, drawing on earlier notable collaboration between scholars in Law and Social
 Policy, especially associated with the impact-oriented Social Policy Research Centre.
 Collaboration with the Business School also continued as the two schools remained part of the
 same Faculty. The Law UOA profile was strengthened further by the 2013 transfer to Middlesex
 of EHRAC, as well as by creation of the Whistleblowing Research Unit, led by Lewis, with its
 associated International Whistleblowing Research Network. The boundary between internal
 collaboration and external partnership/engagement was intended to remain porous, however; in
 2018, Castellino became a fractional appointment so he could better integrate his Middlesex
 research with tackling social issues as Executive Director of the leading international NGO Minority
 Rights Group, which manages campaigns of strategic litigation, training, and media advocacy with
 around 150 partners in over 50 countries.

 The re-positioning of Law research within the new School called for additional procedures in order
 to continue to ensure fairness and transparency. Revised arrangements shaped by the
 University’s updated research architecture were introduced as regards research mentoring;
 research ethics and integrity; guidance to staff applying for staff development funding; and
 applications for research leave (which had awarded 12 colleagues periods of one-semester
 research leave each between 2008 and 2013). Combined with the audit point of REF 2014, the
 formation of the new School offered a new baseline for the period 2014-2020.

 1.3 Research strategy since 2014

 The Law UOA follows a continuing strategy of linking research to addressing social issues and
 innovation. Practical arrangements reflect the University’s wider values in striking a balance
 between four key objectives:

 (i) supporting the overall vitality of the group by investing in research by all staff, ensuring individual
 professional growth;

 (ii) building critical mass in prioritised specialisms where REF2014 had shown an intersection
 between research expertise, outputs and impact;

 (iii) contributing to the legal field, HE sector, and wider society, by sustaining current and growing
 new impact pathways;

 (iv) ensuring the sustainability of the unit’s research environment, by attracting larger, reliable
 research income streams to help support the other three prongs of the strategy.

 Together, these commitments are taken into account in the UOA’s appointments and funding
 initiatives, further supported by fostering research collaboration between senior colleagues and
 ECRs across the school, the faculty and beyond, supporting external network-forming, ensuring
 the availability of staff development opportunities, and appropriately funding dissemination and
 professional engagement opportunities. Impact is built into research by all staff from the start. The
 three submitted impact case studies show the UOA’s approach by including academics at different
 levels of their career: the “Rule of Law Backsliding” case study comprises work by Pech
 (Professor) and Grogan (Senior Lecturer/ECR); the “Strengthening Human Rights and the Rule

                                                                                                     Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Law within the Council of Europe Region” case study comprises work by Leach (Professor) and
 Donald (Senior Lecturer); and the “Minorities, Indigenous Peoples and Vulnerable Groups” case
 study comprises work of Castellino (Professor), Dominguez-Redondo (Associate Professor) and
 Doyle (Lecturer).

 1.4 UOA organisation

 While the UOA has a strong tradition of working effectively informally, communication and
 collaboration have been supplemented in pursuing these objectives by two formal structures:
 clarification of the role of RL, and tasks taken on by the small UOA committee. The RL (Howard)
 liaises closely with the HoD on strategy, as well as on specifics including research time
 allowances, travel grants, sabbatical applications, and other matters. The UOA committee plans,
 prepares, and communicates arrangements related to the REF submission; three members of this
 group are also members of the Faculty REF committee, ensuring multi-level communication, and
 Howard also takes part in University-level REF meetings.

 In her RL role, Howard creates as far as possible an open research environment by encouraging
 effective sharing of information, research interests and impact, strengthening collaboration with
 other disciplines. She prepares a report for each Department meeting on research news,
 publications and notable impacts; she conducts one-to-one mentoring (supported by others as
 appropriate); she maintains an open-door policy; and she advises on staff development available
 beyond the School. As RL she also liaises with the Doctoral Institute and PhD programme leader
 (Pecorella), with the department’s Chair of Research Ethics (Donald, who implements best
 practice guidance from the University Ethics Committee), and with research leaders in Politics and
 Criminology and Sociology. These activities and contacts enable the RL to maintain an overview
 of research activities within the UOA and the School and to assist in building interdisciplinary
 collaborations. All staff are required to enter publications in the University Research Repository
 on acceptance, and these are then available to other staff. Finally, Howard is a member of an
 internal project funding group, with Durant (Law), Duke (Criminology and Sociology), and
 Bradshaw (Head of School), which assesses applications to an internal research funding scheme
 that supports research, dissemination, engagement, and planned impact-related activity, as
 described in Section 2.




 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Central to realising the unit’s potential in research and knowledge exchange is achieving the best
 use of staff expertise and resources. In this respect, the UOA’s strategy gives local effect to the
 University’s mission: to be a leading University for transforming potential into success for both
 students and staff.

 In 2014, Middlesex undertook an institution-wide mapping exercise to ensure staff were correctly
 placed in terms of level and development pathway. Two pathways were distinguished: “teaching
 & research” and “teaching & professional practice”, with scope to move staff between pathways
 depending on career trajectory. The University’s people strategy to 2031, “Changing lives – A
 world class community in a world class University”, fits well with the UOA’s plan for research
 growth. All appointments in Law, as well as deployment of staff in post prior to 2014, have a

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research expectation except where an alternative practice deployment has been agreed. While
 two members of Law staff (Kerin and Shiner) maintain their practitioner involvement in developing
 clinical legal education – and so are on the “teaching and practice” route and not submitted for
 REF – both nevertheless remain active members of the Law research community, and have (co-)
 authored articles in academic journals. One other colleague has not been submitted as he is
 undertaking a PhD.

 Key staffing aims since 2014:

 (i) to improve the balance in staff profile as regards demographic and subject expertise;
 (ii) to develop junior researchers;
 (iii) to create critical mass in research groupings;
 (iv) to lay foundations for concentrations in subject areas in which we are not yet active.

 Realisation of the UOA’s goals is informed by the Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers, in particular the principles of promoting an inclusive approach to staff
 development which enhances individual and collective research capacities; the aim of attracting
 and retaining research leaders and junior staff with high potential; and the value of promoting
 equality and diversity.

 The composition of staff in the Law department is shown in Table 3.

     Staff (Department of   Female                                Male
     Law and Politics)
             Professors              1                                   6
                                     (Howard)                            (Castellino (0.2 FTE);
                                                                         Durant; Leach; Lewis,
                                                                         Pech, Schabas)
             Associate               3                                   1
             Professors              (Barton-Hanson; Dominguez-          (Keane)
                                     Redondo; Pascoe)
             Senior                  8                                   5
             Lecturers               (Donald; Grogan (ECR);              (Corkin; Cullen; Kerin;
                                     Hourani; Jones; Loumansky;          Kukovec; Schatzberger)
                                     Pecorella (ECR); Staunton;
                                     Zhao)
             Lecturers               5                                   6 (Doyle; McDonagh;
                                     (Burton; Coleman (ECR);             Moran (ECR), Nsubuga
                                     Gramcheva; Shiner; Watt             (ECR);        Watkins;
                                     (ECR))                              Wheeler (ECR))

             Total                   17                                  18

        Table 3: Staff in the Law department at Middlesex

 7 members of staff are ECRs, all of whom have PhDs and publications. Three of those 7 ECRs
 joined the department after completing their PhD at Middlesex, competing with external applicants



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 but having been supported previously within the Doctoral Institute. Middlesex also assists staff
 with time and fee remission in gaining a PhD.

  A number of staff left Middlesex during the REF period: 4 retired after successful academic
 careers; 6 left to pursue academic careers elsewhere (3 joined other Universities in the UK, 3 went
 to Universities in other countries). The UOA’s research culture had enabled them to develop
 research profiles which helped them in gaining academic positions, including promotion,
 elsewhere; for instance 3 had enjoyed six months research leave each during their period at
 Middlesex. All leavers had published articles and chapters; 2 had also published monographs
 during their time at MDX; and 1 had given expert evidence in 2 legal cases. Some of these former
 colleagues continue their collaborative research with Middlesex staff; their contribution to our
 growing research culture now supports the development of new colleagues.

 2.2 Equality and diversity

 Reference to staff moving posts internationally highlights an important characteristic of staff in the
 Law UOA: its international make-up and internal diversity. Diversity and inclusion form a key part
 of the University’s 2017-22 strategy for a “values-driven culture,” and in October 2018 Middlesex
 was the first University to be awarded a UK Investor in Equality and Diversity Charter Mark by the
 equality, diversity and inclusion specialists UK Investor in Equality and Diversity (UKIED)
 (https://www.mdx.ac.uk/news/2018/10/middlesex-is-first-university-to-receive-uk-investor-in-
 equality-and-diversity-charter-mark). Middlesex is one of the most diverse in the UK with, in total,
 29% of staff from a BAME background; University Equality and Diversity Networks include an
 Interfaith Group and Anti-Racism, LGBT+, Gender, Disability, and Parents and Carers networks.

 The Law UOA reflects this diversity in its ethos and subject specialisms: staff represent 15
 nationalities from across the world, with diverse backgrounds and an almost even split between
 men and women and younger and older colleagues. The inclusive, collegiate and supportive
 culture not only creates an environment where staff freely share experiences and assist each other
 in their research, it also infuses an international perspective, and distinct Global South lens, into
 the UOA’s research and practice.

 Clear arrangements exist for ensuring equality of opportunity, including for parental leave, flexible
 working, and accommodation of family, health and other circumstances, as well as for staff
 returning from parental leave or from a leave of absence through illness or disability. The UOA
 monitors individual needs as they arise and makes accommodations as appropriate on top of
 University-provided adjustments. Extra research support is given wherever a need is identified. All
 support measures for research – leave, conference participation, internal funding and support with
 grant applications – are transparent and open to everyone on an equitable basis. Previous
 allocations are taken into account to ensure an equitable distribution is maintained. Inclusive and
 transparent channels are in place for drawing attention to issues in this area, and for connecting
 with University-level and other services.

 2.3 Research students

 Research students are integral to our research community, and the UOA has a thriving PhD
 student community: diverse in background, nationality, religion, disability, sexual orientation,
 gender and age. PhD students are expected to participate in the School’s research culture and
 are supported in doing so. They are accommodated in high-quality, dedicated office
 accommodation shared on a hot-desking basis, with good computing facilities. They have full

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to the well-resourced Sheppard Library on campus, with its own Law Library and good
 access to dedicated databases and to other major London libraries such as the British Library
 and the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies Library of the University of London. PhD students can
 apply for financial support for conference attendance where papers are accepted. At University
 level, RKTO organises generic skills training in an annual Researcher Development programme
 that runs through the academic year; and each summer a University-wide doctoral conference is
 organised. Submitted papers go through a formal review and feedback process, and presenters
 receive constructive feedback on their sessions.

 The UOA has seen a significant growth in PhD completions, with 30 completions in the REF period
 - a more than threefold increase compared to the previous period. Two DProfs were awarded by
 the UOA; both were DProfs by public works, however, and, thus, are not included in the table.

               2013/14   2014/15    2015/16   2016/17   2017/18    2018/19   2019/2020    Total

  PhD          0         4          5         4         7          8         2            30

  DProf        0         0          0         0         0          0         0            0

  TOTAL        0         4          5         4         7          8         2            30



 Table 4: PhD completions in this REF period

 Arrangements for doctoral admissions, supervision, and progression in the UOA are made by the
 PhD programme leader (Pecorella) and deputy (Kukovec), in conjunction with RKTO. Pecorella
 and Kukovec arrange twice-yearly, two-day doctoral seminars across the School of Law where
 PhD students can present work-in-progress. The doctoral seminars include skills workshops (e.g.
 on viva preparation) and mix practical sessions with presentations by distinguished speakers. All
 PhD students are members of the School’s Doctoral Institute, led by Schabas, who supervises
 PhD students many of whom come to Middlesex specifically to conduct research under his
 supervision. The Institute also organises a regular international law study group and an informal
 general reading group, as well as screenings with discussion of relevant films. Contributing to
 longer-term career development, the Law Department provides opportunities for PhD students to
 teach seminars on undergraduate Law modules in order to gain teaching experience and enhance
 employability. Some research students who have done this have subsequently been appointed to
 academic posts, including three in Law at Middlesex: Coleman, Pecorella and Wheeler.

 Middlesex regulations on PhD supervision require a minimum team for each student consisting of
 a Director of Studies plus a second Supervisor. Regular reporting and progression processes are
 in place; and training on supervision, PhD examination, and conducting vivas is compulsory for
 everyone involved in supervision and examination. Supervisors are appointed on the basis of
 expertise, but supervisory teams are further planned with a view of bringing together more and
 less experienced staff in order to ensure a sustainable research supervision culture. Currently, 20
 colleagues are involved in PhD supervision. Of those, 13 have previous doctoral supervision
 completions; the median completion number across supervisors is 3. Most staff also act as internal
 reviewers on PhD Registration Panels, mandatory for each full-time PhD student after 6 months,
 and on Transfer Panels (when students transfer from being registered for an MPhil to PhD).
 Involving junior colleagues in these processes ensures they gradually gain experience; since


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 many have recently finished their own PhD, they also bring valuable recent experience to any
 mixed team.

 2.4 Staff development

 The Department has an inclusive and collegiate approach to supporting the development of all
 colleagues. Staff on “teaching and research” contracts are allocated research time in their work
 programme, and staff development needs related to research form part of annual staff appraisals
 with the HoD, a process that includes reporting on outputs, research income, engagement and
 knowledge exchange activity. The process is developmental and includes a discussion of future
 research plans.

 Arrangements for staff development within the unit are headed up by the RL, who offers research
 mentoring to staff at all levels in addition to the general mentoring provided for all new staff.
 Research mentoring covers all topics, but particular focus is given to the importance of building
 impact by factoring it in from the start of any undertaking. With counterparts in Politics and
 Criminology and Sociology, the RL also organises workshops including sessions on “writing book
 proposals”, “writing grant proposals”, “how to review for journals and publishers,” and other
 methods workshops. There is also a “Work in Progress” forum, where anyone can present and
 receive feedback on work-in-progress, even at an early stage. Every few months writing retreats
 are organised, where colleagues write in the same place but have break-time discussions. Further
 staff development resources are available beyond the School, including a University-wide
 Researcher Development Programme for ECRs and PhD students, with 26 themed clusters of
 workshops.

 Additional research support is available in the form of internal funding. Travel grants for attendance
 and presentation at conferences are awarded by Pech, as HoD; other funding is available as small
 grants. The application process for such grants is intended to foreshadow external grant
 applications, and feedback is given on individual applications. Where staff are awarded funding,
 they are required later to submit a report. As regards sources of relevant external research funding,
 advice on grant application writing, research costing, and application procedures is available both
 from the RL and RKTO. Emphasis placed on achieving impact from research has also been
 supported by a series of School awaydays on the topic, as well as by practical support sessions
 attended cumulatively by 92 academic staff and led by a specialist trainer.

 For more extended research opportunities, a Departmental sabbatical scheme is in place. Since
 2012, every year two people have each been awarded a six-month sabbatical period, an
 arrangement which has contributed to publication of a number of books (e.g. three by Dominguez-
 Redondo and Howard), as well as articles. The scheme has also resulted in successful completion
 of a PhD (Jones), and development of external grant applications. Some colleagues have spent
 separately funded periods as “quasi-sabbaticals” at universities in other countries (e.g.
 Dominguez-Redondo as Columbia University Fellow, and Durant as Visiting, now Honorary,
 Professor at the University of Hong Kong).

 These various staff development resources allow for different styles of research production that
 range across individual scholarship, co-authorship, projects undertaken by ad hoc research
 groups, continuous work together by researchers in a centre, and external consultancy. Such
 varied approaches call for flexible responses as regards how best to support them. Unsurprisingly
 for Law, most publications submitted to REF are single-author works (50 out of 78); the same is


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 true of outputs produced during the period but not submitted. But the UOA’s publications also
 show a significant amount of co-authored work (e.g. Corkin and Boeger, Nsubuga and Watkins;
 Pech and Grogan). In many cases, such collaborations involve co-authors at different career
 stages, allowing informal research mentoring (e.g. Schabas and Pecorella). Other co-author
 partnerships have brought together different (including interdisciplinary) expertise (e.g. Howard
 and Kofman); and some extend over a series of publications (e.g. Hourani and Oliviera; Staunton
 and De Vries; Durant and Davis, Durant and Leung). In taking varied forms, such co-authorship
 not only enriches the UOA’s body of scholarly outputs, but helps to create long-term research
 collaboration and wider networks with other institutions.

 Collaboration is encouraged in these varied forms partly because there is no fixed boundary
 recognised between co-authorship and collaboration that may be project-oriented. For example,
 Howard and Kofman’s co-authorship was linked to projects funded by the European Union;
 Castellino and Bradshaw worked together on gender issues both in the UN’s formulation of the
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2015-2030 and in developing a subsequent MOOC;
 Hourani’s collaboration with Oliviera (Royal Holloway), initially to organise a conference, led to the
 co-edited volume Access to Justice in Arbitration: Concept, Context and Practice; and Staunton’s
 role as PI for a 2018-2019 project on “governance of data sharing for genomic and other health-
 related data in Africa”, funded by the Wellcome Trust, continued into several research
 relationships, such that while still full-time at Middlesex she is now also a Senior Researcher at
 the Institute for Biomedicine, EURAC Research, Italy, and works closely with researchers at the
 University of Cape Town and the University of South Africa.

 2.5 Equality, diversity and inclusion in the REF submission

 Equality and diversity are reflected both in the UOA’s research development and support
 programme, and in our REF submission; this reflects the University-wide Equality and Diversity
 Code of Practice (https://bit.ly/2OgSWyV). Drafts of the present UOA Environment Statement have
 been circulated to all colleagues for comment. Our selection of outputs was conducted by a UOA
 working group responsible for REF preparation, chaired by the RL (Howard), and consisting of
 Durant (Professor), Dominguez-Redondo (Associate Professor), Grogan (Senior Lecturer/ECR),
 and Nsubuga (Lecturer/ECR). The process adopted by the group was fully transparent and
 selection criteria including initial author self-nomination were shared with all UOA staff before
 adoption. The three submitted impact case studies were chosen after consultation within the staff
 group; All three illustrate collaboration involving staff at different levels in their career: Pech
 (Professor) and Grogan (Senior Lecturer/ECR); Leach (Professor) and Donald (Senior Lecturer);
 and Castellino (Professor), Dominguez-Redondo (Associate Professor) and Doyle (Lecturer).




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University’s Project Management Office records £12.6m spent on investment in facilities and
 equipment to support research in the period. Such investment implements one aspect of the
 Research Strategy, which calls for the University to “focus investment…selectively on areas that
 are truly outstanding and support our strategic priorities”, one priority being that research should
 benefit students and the wider community. Investment in research is taken both to yield immediate
 value, created as the benefit to users of research and KE, and indirect benefits brought into
 teaching and reputational advantage.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Essential infrastructure for research and knowledge exchange activity is provided at University
 level in the form of RKTO. Led by the University’s Director of Research (Comley) and Director of
 Knowledge Exchange (Gray), RKTO provides a “one-stop shop” that assists all staff in relation to
 opportunities for professional engagement, logistical support funding, managing research
 projects, and delivering impact. Specialised support is also offered on technical matters (e.g. in
 relation to contracts). In addition, RKTO oversees research metrics related to grant and contract
 research income, which are made available to senior managers and research leaders. RKTO also
 assists in identifying funding opportunities and provides support for individual researchers when
 making applications. At Faculty level, annual plans identify essential and prioritised research
 facility enhancements; support services plan their delivery, once approved.

 Costs and income in the Law UOA relate to several interlocking financial streams: costed dual-
 use of buildings, equipment, office infrastructure and other charges; specific investment allocated
 by the University to support and grow research; and external income raised by grants, project
 funds, and consultancy. While the cost of research in Law may appear low by comparison with
 many other subjects, the necessary resources to produce impactful research still encompass
 general and some specialised infrastructure: buildings and physical space to work in; computer
 and IT equipment; library and database resources; budgeted time, event management and travel;
 and creation of a scholarly and professional milieu that encourages research and KE work and is
 hospitable to external partners.

 3.1 Buildings and equipment

 Since the mid-2000s, the University has invested over £250 million in developing the Hendon
 campus, which now provides a highly conducive environment both for research and teaching. A
 major £2.1 million refurbishment of the Williams Building, where the Law and Politics Department
 is situated, took place in 2018-2019. Following this, the Department moved from the top to the
 ground floor in order to be located close to the Department of Criminology and Sociology. Offices
 were refitted throughout with new PCs, laptops, and printing and scanning equipment. A dedicated
 and fully equipped room for PhD students across the School was created. Along with events,
 including awaydays and an extensive programme of visiting-speaker seminars, this relocation
 together of all staff within the School of Law, with shared use of facilities (including a kitchen and
 staff common room), gave physical form to efforts to create new kinds of academic synergy,
 particularly research, impact and KE synergy, planned in the earlier restructure which had created
 the School.

 One exception to the bringing together of School of Law staff was the relocation of two associated
 Research Centres, EHRAC (Law) and CATS (the Centre for Abuse and Trauma Studies, aligned
 with Criminology and Sociology). These two centres were moved into a renovated 17th century
 Grade II* listed building roughly 50 metres away from the Williams Building. Acquisition and
 conversion of Church Farm House showed major investment in the School’s research profile by
 the University. Both as a result of REF2014 and based on an internal assessment, the quality of
 research in human rights law and criminology in particular was recognised as a notable feature of
 Middlesex’s research profile, justifying “focused investment” identified in the University’s financial
 “Refresh” exercise. Use of the Farmhouse for high-level academic and professional seminars and
 meetings provides a way of simultaneously enhancing the research student environment and
 further increasing scope for interdisciplinary interaction among all staff, allowing the two research
 centres to build further on their established international reputations.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Libraries and IT

 The state-of-the-art Sheppard Library (the main Middlesex University resource centre) reflects
 further the University-wide programme of increased investment in purpose-built new buildings and
 research infrastructure. It provides access to over 40,000 journal titles via Library Search, the
 University’s Library Discovery Tool, in addition to a collection of over 350,000 books and e-books.
 This current collection represents a significant increase in titles since 2014. The Library also offers
 all academic staff and researchers a free “document supply” and Inter Library Loan service as a
 convenient way to source materials not held in the collection. Librarians provide expert subject
 support and termly training sessions on citation searching as part of an expanded Researcher
 Development Programme. The Library’s Research Support Services Team manages the Eprints
 Research Repository which enables discovery of and access to research produced by Middlesex
 and Middlesex-affiliated authors. The team also provide information and support to REF, Open
 Access publishing, and management of research data. Middlesex University was one of the first
 to institute an e-repository for its published outputs (http://eprints.mdx.ac.uk/), a repository that
 now holds well over 20,000 items and for which the average number of yearly items deposited has
 increased from 980 in the previous REF period to 1207 items in the period 2014-20. Deposits from
 the School of Law average 215 per year (up from 180 between 2008-13), reflecting steady growth
 in published outputs.

 The Library building contains a distinct “Law Library” on one floor, with extensive specialist
 holdings of books, e-books and law journals, as well as subscriber electronic resources available
 on campus or remotely. A full-time Law Librarian assists staff and students in locating scholarly
 literature and data, and provides training on specialised electronic resources. Staff can request
 purchase of books thought likely to be of long-term research community value. Additional
 resources are available because of the location of the Hendon campus within easy reach of central
 London and other parts of the capital: all staff and research students can access library facilities
 of other Universities within the M25 orbital motorway free of charge, and can use and participate
 in events arranged by the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, which not only offers library facilities
 but also an extensive programme of lectures, training workshops, and other academic events.
 Staff members also regularly use the British Library. More specialised research resources are
 sometimes further tailored, on an individual basis, through staff contacts with relevant London
 chambers whose tenants (including Geoffrey Robertson QC, Stephen Kay QC, Sir Geoffrey Nice
 QC and Richard Hermer QC) are supporters of and occasional visiting speakers to the
 Department. Where other materials are needed, funding has been awarded for travel and use of
 other collections.

 3.3 Invited speakers, hosted events

 Among the intangible resources needed in enhancing and sustaining an up-to-date and well
 networked research culture is the framework created for collegial discussion, which is enriched by
 visitor and partner inputs. During each academic year, the UOA arranges many events involving
 presentations by external speakers including judges, barristers, solicitors, policymakers and
 academics who are active in the UK and other jurisdictions. Some of these events are specialist
 occasions; others are organised by individual members of staff so as to be embedded in their
 courses, which are then, where practicable, opened up for other students and for all staff. Most
 events, big or small, are open to everyone within the school as well as, often, to the wider
 (University) population. The Hendon campus offers attractive venues both for small-scale and
 larger events, with facilities for up to 350 delegates.


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Among many events organised by the UOA, notable examples include talks by Judges Robert
 Spano and Paulo Pinto de Albuquerque of the European Court of Human Rights; Baroness Hale
 (then President of the Supreme Court); and Sir Patrick Elias. Other sessions have been led by
 members of our alumni, for example, Jonathan Achampong, solicitor and partner at Wedlake Bell
 LLP. A large programme of visiting lectures by leading academic and public figures is also
 available in cognate fields under the auspices of the Department of Criminology and Sociology,
 as well as in the Business School. Sessions involving internal rather than external speakers range
 from research seminars, through inaugural lectures by new professors, to brown-bag lunchtime
 discussions.

 3.4 External income

 Given that teaching income provides roughly three quarters of the University’s income, it is
 understandable that over the REF period Middlesex has sought to supplement its core provision
 for research with an increase in the proportion of research-related income generated through
 external collaborations, access to KE funding, and opportunities for contract research. During the
 REF period, the UOA has accrued a total income of £5,170,157, roughly six times the £900,000
 reported in 2014. That sum was in turn fourteen times the £63,843 reported in 2008. Since 2014,
 another trend, towards widening the range of funding sources, has also continued, supported by
 strategic encouragement of impact foresight early in projects, and more proactive competition for
 external grants.

 In relation both to individual and project-related income, a system of internal quality control applies
 in addition to advice given by RKTO as described above. All funding applications must be
 discussed with the RL and HoD before submission, and are often also discussed with other senior
 colleagues in a more informal way. In some cases, preparatory work is funded in advance, through
 a small internal grant to allow projects to be scaled up subsequently. RKTO checks that
 satisfactory budgeting for external applications is in place. All staff are encouraged to apply for
 funding and the RL mentors colleagues individually as well as organising workshops on grant
 proposal writing in conjunction with RLs in Politics and in Criminology and Sociology.

 Staff at all stages of academic career have secured funding, individually or with others. Types and
 amounts of funding vary from substantial sums awarded to international team projects to smaller
 sums from a variety of sources. The UOA’s focus on social justice has increased funding from
 charities and NGOs at the same time as it has provided an important route to societal impact.

 Examples of funded activity include:

 (i) Funding associated with the “Human Rights Law Implementation Project” (Donald and Leach,
 with Speck [now PhD student at Ghent University]). The grant awarded by the Economic and
 Social Research Council [Grant No ES/M008819/1; 2015-2018] was £1,115,512 total (with
 £302,341 accruing to Middlesex). Another grant [AJU/39096], of £77,754 was awarded by the
 Nuffield Foundation to continuing work by Leach and Donald on “Democratic legitimacy in human
 rights implementation: the role of parliaments in the implementation of judgments of the European
 Court of Human Rights” (2013-15). Many other grants also awarded to EHRAC are reported in the
 related impact case study, and costs of legal and administrative staff, as well as overheads, were
 funded through separate external fund-raising.

 (ii) Funding associated with the involvement of Pech, as board member and leader of the work
 package dedicated to “The Rule of Law” (principles), with Corkin, Grogan and Howard, in the

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Horizon 2020 Reconnect programme, “Reconciling Europe with its Citizens through Democracy
 and Rule of Law” (2018-2022). The consortium was awarded €4,999,686; Middlesex receives the
 work package segment of £278,448, in total £186,598 over the REF period.

 (iii) Funding associated with Lewis’s work as consultant on whistleblowing principles, legislation
 and policy: £43,778 awarded in 2014 by the DHSS for Quantitative research for the “Freedom to
 Speak Up” independent review of whistleblowing in the NHS (the Francis Review); £14,750
 awarded in 2015 by the UK Nursing and Midwifery Council for “Analysis of responses submitted
 by nurses, midwives and health visitors to the Francis review of whistleblowing in the NHS”. Two
 sums of €10,000 awarded in 2018 and 2020, the first under the PECK 11 scheme from the Council
 of Europe mission to Kosovo (for work in drafting whistleblowing legislation, 2018); the second
 from the Council of Europe under the AEK-MKD scheme (“Introducing whistleblowing legislation
 in North Macedonia”).

 (iv) £14,316 awarded to Donald, Howard and Keane by the Equality and Human Rights
 Commission for NatCen Social Research (contract awarded 2014; work completed 2016).

 (v) £120,000 (Leverhulme Trust Fellowship) awarded to Doyle (2016 – 2019). Doyle’s “research
 delivered in practice”, as project coordinator working with indigenous people while in the UOA,
 was externally funded but channeled through the following third-party organisations: German
 Development Agency GIZ: £45,000 for a project, “Implementing Free Prior and Informed Consent
 protocols in indigenous peoples’ territories” (2018-2019); £90,000 for the project “Realizing
 collective rights: Assessing the role of indigenous peoples’ consultation and consent protocols and
 policies”, 2015-2016; and, £35,000 for the KE project “Business & Indigenous Rights Policy and
 Training: Funding”, working with the European Network on Indigenous Peoples (2015-2016);
 Tebtebba Foundation and other donors: £20,000 for a further KE event in the Philippines.

 (vi) £21,561 awarded to Howard by the EU Commission for the 2017 report for the European
 Network of Legal Experts on Gender Equality and Anti-Discrimination: “Religious Clothing and
 Symbols in Employment”; and, £10,936 for “Research Study for the EU Parliament: on the
 Implementation of Directive 2000/78/EC with Regard to the Principle of Non-discrimination on the
 Basis of Religion or Belief” (2015).

 (vii) £39,419 awarded by the European Commission under the Erasmus+ programme to Pech
 which funded the Jean Monnet Chair 2014-2017, in recognition of and for ongoing scholarship
 and impact in the area of rule of law.

 (viii) £25,323 awarded by the Wellcome Trust to Staunton, as Principal Investigator in the project,
 “The governance of data sharing for genomic and other health-related data in Africa” (2018-2019).

 Finally, substantial research contributions by members of the unit were made to projects where
 the PI is reported in REF2021 under a different UOA. This income is not counted under Law.
 However, such contributions are worth noting given the University’s encouragement of
 interdisciplinarity and wider collaboration.

 (ix) Contribution to £37,787, awarded to Kofman (PI, Social Policy), with Harding (Criminology),
 Howard (Law) and Vacchelli (Social Policy) for the 2015-2017 project, “DiverCITY: Preventing and
 Combating Homo- and Transphobia in Small and Medium Cities across Europe”. European
 Project JUST/2014/Action Grants.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (x) Contribution to £27,169 awarded to Kofman (Social Policy) as PI, with Howard (Law), by the
 European Commission, DG Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion for the 2018-2020 project,
 “PHS-Quality: Job Quality and Industrial relations in the Personal and Household sector”.

 These final two funding sources evidence the interdisciplinary nature of research in the UOA, as
 well as high levels of collaboration among academic and non-academic stakeholders, and the
 Unit’s commitment to social engagement across international, national and local societal contexts.
 Involvement of staff at all levels of their careers in the funding acquired above further illustrates
 the UOA’s commitment to succession management and career development of junior researchers.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The contribution made by research in the UOA is positioned ultimately by the University’s stated
 research strategy and the role of research within its wider institutional mission. Research must be
 assessed as a blend of three elements: (i) the extent to which it addresses social issues in an
 applied way; (ii) how far it impacts on identified research end-users; and (iii) how far at the same
 time it can enrich curriculum development. The UOA’s focus on responding to pressing issues of
 social justice and how these are framed in law and policy underpins engagement and collaboration
 with diverse professional communities and social actors at national and international level, and at
 the same time contributes to a rich and challenging departmental programme of learning and
 teaching.

 The traceable impact and effects of research have become a more explicit focus of the UOA
 research culture since 2014. Research discussions have given increased attention to how best to
 create effective connections between publication and dissemination formats, modes of
 engagement with professional bodies, and effects on possible beneficiaries. More emphasis has
 been placed on writing reports and producing guidance documents; assisting in or advising on the
 drafting of legislation and commenting on case law; working to strengthen the voice of
 disempowered or disenfranchised groups; strategic involvement in litigation and policy
 development; and training and capacity-building with targeted professional groups. The UOA
 emphasises the value of and seeks to encourage involvement in such avenues of research activity
 alongside traditional scholarship.

 4.1 Contribution to the scholarly community and higher education sector

 The range and quality of resources available to legal scholars and practitioners have been
 enhanced, first of all, by the number, depth and distinctiveness of publications produced in the
 UOA during the period. Given their subject matter and formats, readership varies from judges,
 legal practitioners and scholars through to policy makers, NGOs and other social actors. The UOA
 has submitted a total of 78 outputs, but the total number of peer-reviewed scholarly outputs and
 reports, excluding blogs and conference papers, is 362 (see Table 2).

 The range of outputs can be illustrated briefly by books published by Schabas during the period,
 which include a 1500 page OUP commentary on the European Convention on Human Rights, and
 a highly accessible and yet authoritative speculation, The Trial of the Kaiser, which allows a non-
 specialist readership to understand the formation and history of international criminal justice and
 the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Another pointer is offered by the two

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monographs published by ECRs (three more ECRs [Coleman, Pecorella and Watt] have book
 manuscripts with publishers pending publication during 2021). Nsubuga’s Employee Rights in
 Corporate Insolvency: a UK and US Perspective (2019) offers a new focus on the treatment of
 employee rights when a debtor employer initiates proceedings; and Wheeler’s The Right to be
 Present at Trial in International Criminal Law, unpacks changes in what is meant for the accused
 to be present during international criminal trials and the impact absence from trial can have on the
 accused’s fair trial rights .

 The significance of reports may be thought easier to assess than books, despite their actual
 influence depending on policy processes beyond the reports themselves. Some reports produced
 by staff during this period are featured in the impact case studies submitted. Others include the
 research by Keane and others for the Equality and Human Rights Commission on caste
 discrimination, leading to EHRC Research Report 91: “Caste in Britain: Social-Legal Review”; and,
 EHRC Research Report 92: “Caste in Britain: Experts' Seminar and Stakeholders’ Workshop”.
 Schabas’ preparation of the 2020 Quinquennial Report of the United Nations Secretary-General
 on the global status of capital punishment is mentioned below.

 The range and reputation of journals in which authors have published, and so the specialised
 readerships reached and potentially influenced, is worth noting. The following list shows a
 selection of journals in which more than one piece by a Middlesex author has appeared: Journal
 of Social Welfare and Family Law (Barton-Hanson, Burton); Human Rights Law Review (Donald,
 Howard, Keane); Conveyancer and Property Lawyer (Pascoe, Schatzberger); and Journal of
 International Criminal Justice (Coleman, Schabas, Wheeler). Pech published two particularly high-
 citation articles in Common Market Law Review as well as two in Cambridge Yearbook of
 European Legal Studies. Other articles and chapters published by staff cover a wide range of
 subjects including sustainable development, medical ethics, company and commercial law,
 property law, intellectual property law, legal education, trade law, and international criminal law.

 Ten edited books have emerged from international collaborations. Examples include, Buckley,
 Donald, and Leach, Towards Convergence in International Human Rights Law: Approaches of
 Regional and International Systems (2016); Durant and Leung, Meaning and Power in the
 Language of Law (2017); Keane and Waughray. Fifty Years of the International Convention on the
 Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination: a Living Instrument (2017); and, Howard,
 Dominguez-Redondo and Baez, Affirmative Action and the Law: Efficacy of National and
 International Approaches (2020).

 Alongside publications, a significant contribution to the sector has been made by the many roles
 that researchers in the UOA have taken on, including acting as PhD external examiners,
 participating in Editorial Boards of academic journals and appointment panels at other institutions,
 assessing grant applications, among others. Data on each role show high levels of staff
 involvement, for example 7 significant Editorial Board memberships including International Journal
 of Human Rights (Doyle); International Journal of Discrimination and the Law (Howard); Industrial
 Law Journal (Lewis); Hague Journal on the Rule of Law (Pech); Montesquieu Law Review (Pech);
 Medicine, Science and the Law (Spencer); and, Journal of Immigration Asylum and Nationality
 Law (editor Wray). Staff also regularly contribute peer review assessments to academic journals
 or on book proposals, and/or act as grant application reviewers.

 Another contribution, to the “law in higher education” and “law and policy” communities, can be
 seen in organisation of specialist conferences. Among many examples, the scale and aims of such
 events organised by staff in the UOA may be illustrated by:

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (i) The bi-annual conference of the International Whistleblowing Research Network (organised by
 Lewis);

 (ii) “Parliaments and Human Rights Implementation”, a workshop on the international Human
 Rights judiciary and national parliaments, hosted by Middlesex with the support of the Democracy
 as Idea and Practice Fund of the University of Oslo, November 2015 (Donald);

 (iii) The International Maritime and Commercial Law Conference: “West Meets East: Challenges
 for Today and Tomorrow”, London, 2018, held at Clyde & Co LLP (Zhao);

 (iv) “The Role of Access to Justice in Arbitration”, organised by Hourani and Oliviera (Royal
 Holloway); this event led to an edited book in the International Arbitration Law Library series, an
 award at the 2019 Vienna ICC YAF-YAP Conference, and forms the basis of a pending external
 grant application.

 Other contributions, again among a large number of examples, include Cullen’s participation in
 expert roundtable discussions convened by the Remote Warfare Programme of the Oxford
 Research Group, 2017-2018; and Dominguez-Redondo’s role in the International Human Rights
 Summer Course, also at Oxford University (2020). Colleagues have presented at academic
 events set up to pursue change or development agendas with aspirations beyond academic
 debate; and an overwhelming majority of staff have made numerous conference presentations
 during the period, in many cases as keynotes, at international events bringing scholars together
 with lawyers, judges and diplomats.

 4.2 Contribution to wider society

 The UOA’s wider contribution to the economy and society goes well beyond our impact case
 studies. Apart from the reports mentioned above and those reported in the impact case studies,
 reports written by UOA members have gained significant traction among policymakers, as Lewis’s
 quantitative contribution to the Francis Report on “Whistleblowing in the NHS” did, contributing
 directly to major reforms.

 Propelled by the UOA’s commitment to providing research evidence in discussing and assessing
 contemporary issues, staff research has sought to contribute wherever possible to teaching and
 training of civil society bodies, NGOs, judges, and lawyers, especially where work is directly
 concerned with issues of social justice. Professional engagement in relevant sectors has been
 built on instructional and training formats developed in-house for educational purposes, to foster
 closer dialogue between educational, professional and public debates. Our impact cases studies
 also show examples of this, including training run by EHRAC for lawyers and NGOs. Other
 examples are Doyle’s KE programmes, including training sessions on international human rights
 given to civil society and indigenous representatives in Geneva and the Philippines on behalf of
 the European Network on Indigenous Peoples. Castellino and Bradshaw collaborated in designing
 innovative rights units within a MOOC developed by Columbia University, following their
 involvement in the formulation of the new UN SDGs, 2015-30.

 Grogan’s “Sticky Tricky Law” is a public legal education project explaining aspects of law on
 Facebook and Twitter (https://stickytrickylaw.wordpress.com/): post-it format explanations drawn
 and written by Grogan reach around 2000 followers including (as shown by follow-up
 communications) legal academics, law and politics lecturers, judges, civil servants and NGOs,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 journalists and second-level educators, as well as being adopted as recommended reading by
 staff at law schools at Cambridge, Reading, Newcastle, and Birmingham. Grogan’s initiative is an
 innovative, hybrid project which seeks to connect, for a general audience, the educational impulse
 of a textbook with the currency and influence of blogs and other social media.

 Many colleagues besides Grogan are active on social media, both as a way to reach and engage
 with large, non-specialist audiences and also to put in place a kind of laddering between engaging
 with legal issues via social media and accessing more detailed, authoritative resources beyond
 social media. Providing an additional platform for such work, the University also has its own blog,
 MDXMinds (https://mdxminds.com/) and staff in the UOA are active on it as well as via external
 blogs that can be illustrated by:

 (i) People v Parliament and A Case for a Second Referendum, Verfassungsblog, October 2019
 (Kukovec);

 (ii) A commentary on the African Court’s Decision in the Case APDF and IHRDA v Republic of
 Mali: Why Socio-cultural Endemic Factors of a Society Could Never Support Arguments Based on
 Force Majeure, International Law Blog, 14 January 2019 (Pecorella);

 (iii) An Alternative to the Brexit Backstop: An All-Ireland “Common No-Custom Area” under Art. 24
 GATT, Verfassungsblog 30 September 2019 (Moran with Sacerdoti);

 (iv) The Legal Reality of the Recognition and Enforcement of Cross-Border Blockchain-based
 Arbitral Awards: Beyond Futuristic Idealism?, Off the Chain blog post, 05/2019 (Hourani);

 (v) Towards a tort of political negligence: Political deceit, political misrepresentation and the Brexit
 conundrum. International Law Blog, 2019 (Nsubuga).

 Members of the UOA have appeared on numerous occasions in traditional media as
 commentators and interviewees, pre-eminently Pech and Schabas, both in print and on radio and
 television. Kukovec comments on Brexit and other EU law issues on national TV in Slovenia and
 publishes in Slovenian newspapers; and, Lewis has been interviewed for many TV channels
 regarding whistleblowing, gagging clauses and settlements agreements. During crucial stages of
 Brexit, Grogan made around 150 media appearances taking insights and condensed analysis from
 her research and as articulated in “Sticky Tricky Law”, to audited international radio and television
 audiences counted in millions.

 4.3 Impact

 During the current REF period, planning for and delivering impacts from research has been an
 increasingly important area for the UOA, to which an increased level of attention has been given
 in relation both to an immediate and much longer-term timescale. Alongside the four selected REF
 impact case studies referred to below (three submitted in Law, one substantially legal but
 interdisciplinary and submitted in Business), a selection of other impactful research initiatives are
 notable, including the following:

 (i) Burton’s research resulted in input into: the review of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment
 of Offenders Act 2012 by the Ministry of Justice; the Equality and Human Rights Commission’s
 inquiry report into legal aid for victims of discrimination; and her own commentary submitted to the
 All Party Parliamentary Group on Legal Aid.

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (ii) Cullen worked on a legal brief concerning the law applicable to use of non-lethal weapons by
 the Indian army in Kashmir for senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, in a case heard in the Indian
 Supreme Court.

 (iii) Hourani provided expert contributions on block chain contracts and block chain arbitration to
 companies and SMEs including Software & Support Media GmbH (2019) and Mozaic Works
 (based in Bucharest, Romania) (2018); she also made invited contributions to reports submitted
 to UNCITRAL (the UN Commission on International Trade Law) (2018), the Tunisian Chamber of
 Arbitration (2017-2018), and the Electronic Frontiers Foundation (EFF) white paper on the internet
 and trade agreements (2015).

 (iv) In 2016, Keane acted as consultant, with collaborators in other universities, on the “Guidance
 Tool for the UN System on Discrimination based on Caste/Descent” for the UN Office of the High
 Commissioner for Human Rights. He also acted as advisor on the International Convention for the
 Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (ICERD) for the Association of Mixed Race Irish
 (AMRI), 2018 to 2020, leading to a written submission to the Commission of Investigation into
 Mother and Baby Homes (Ireland): “Ireland’s Obligations to the Mixed Race Irish under ICERD”.
 His earlier “AMRI Shadow Report”, a written submission to the UN Committee on the Elimination
 of Racial Discrimination (2010), resulted in a separate section on “Mother and Baby Homes” in
 “CERD, Concluding Observations – Ireland (2019)”, UN Doc. CERD/C/IRL/CO/5-9, at paras. 17-
 18.

 (v) Throughout the REF period, Schabas has continued to analyse and advocate the elimination
 of the use of capital punishment throughout the world, a cause on which he has published
 extensively. He delivered high-level lectures on capital punishment in several retentionist States
 (e.g. China, Japan, the United States, Indonesia and Thailand), and produced several publications
 including most significantly his preparation of the 2020 Quinquennial Report of the United Nations
 Secretary-General on the global status of capital punishment (as he had also done in 2010 and
 2015). The report provides a benchmark on the subject for the UN, and, like most such reports, is
 presented as the work of the Secretary-General; unusually, however, in this case it is tagged with
 the name and professional affiliation of the consultant who prepared it, albeit in the form of footnote
 2, on page 6.

 (vi) Staunton has advised the South African National Health Laboratory Service on the legal status
 of dissemination of HIV test results for at-risk babies (2019). In 2018, she was involved in the
 development of regulations for stem cell research with the Stem Cell Regulations Committee of
 the Kingdom of Bahrain. She has also provided guidance to the Uganda National Council for
 Science and Technology on the protocol and standard operating procedures to develop a national
 biorepository in Uganda. In 2017, she was part of a team of 6 which drafted the Ethics and
 Governance Framework for Best Practice in Genomic Research and Biobanking in Africa, which
 has been adopted by a number of national research ethics committees.

 Further illustrations of the UOA’s impactful activity are reported separately, in the four freestanding
 impact case studies submitted as part of REF: three in Law – “Strengthening Human Rights and
 the Rule of Law within the Council of Europe Region” (Leach and Donald); “Rule of Law
 Backsliding” (Pech and Grogan); and “Minorities, Indigenous Peoples and Vulnerable Groups”
 (Castellino, Dominguez-Redondo and Doyle). Lewis’s whistleblowing research, consultancy to
 business and public bodies and assistance to legislative drafters is submitted on this occasion
 (unlike in REF2014) from a policy rather than legal perspective, in the REF2021 Business UOA.

                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alongside their intrinsic interest and wider significance, these case studies provide examples of
 the UOA’s commitment and approach to impact, how collaboration between researchers at
 different career stages is achieved, and the kinds of effect and influence which can result from the
 managed research environment described above.




                                                                                             Page 20
