Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 10: Mathematical Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview, and Aims and Structure
 The Department of Mathematics at Aberystwyth University is a long-established department
 which will be celebrating its 150th anniversary in 2022. Our aim is to develop and sustain a
 vibrant research environment by encouraging and supporting each member of staff to pursue a
 research agenda that emphasises their unique abilities and skills, working with their networks of
 internal and external collaborators to produce excellent research and impact. The research
 activity of the Department has a core of ten permanent full-time teaching and research staff,
 supported by research fellows, PDRAs, PhD students, honorary staff and visitors, as well as by
 technicians and professional services staff. We are a close-knit group of researchers: our
 research interests in operator algebras, quantum control, solid and fluid mechanics, and applied
 statistics show extensive overlap, and the size of the Department means that frequent and close
 interactions happen both organically and in a more planned way.

 The approach of the Department is aligned with the University’s Research and Innovation
 Strategy as outlined in REF5a, and builds on its key principles of encouraging ambitious,
 entrepreneurial research that challenges existing approaches and knowledge; creating a
 coherent research-led academic environment; enhancing inclusivity in research; and
 collaborating with external partners, in Wales and globally, both in generating research and in
 passing on the benefits of research through impact and innovation. In this assessment period,
 research capacity in the Department has been strengthened by access to University and Faculty
 funding schemes (for example the University Research Fund, which is open to all researchers,
 and offers awards of up to £10k on a competitive basis, and AberDoc funding for PhD students);
 University policies and initiatives for researcher development and promoting equality and
 inclusivity; and the fostering of interdisciplinary research collaboration through strategic
 restructuring.

 A noteworthy development for the Department during the assessment period has been the
 strengthening of connections with cognate subject areas, first through the formation of the
 Institute of Mathematics, Physics and Computer Science in 2014 and by the establishment of the
 Faculty of Business and Physical Sciences (FBaPS) in 2018. Both processes involved the
 coordination and integration of research policies and research support and activities to facilitate
 cross-departmental collaboration, including two-minute research ‘speed dating’ events and grant
 sandpits. These activities have consolidated strong research links with Physics and Computer
 Science in particular, most notably in the fields of soft matter, quantum systems and applied
 statistics.

 Our commitment to interdisciplinary and collaborative research also extends to work with other
 Departments within the University, notably with Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences
 (IBERS) in the areas of active matter and biostatistics. Our work with external partners in the UK
 and internationally is exemplified by our involvement in, and coordination of, Europe-wide
 projects, and there is extensive work with researchers in the US and Australia in solid
 mechanics, soft matter and quantum information. As a relatively small Department, collaborative
 research is essential to realising critical mass to ensure the sustainability of our research
 activities, and the vitality of our collaborations is reflected in the range of work supported in
 projects funded by UKRI and European sources, including in bio-mechanics (MatrixAssay),
 modelling the effects of climate change (ECHOES), minerals processing (PARM-2), analysis of
 the properties of composite materials with complex microstructure (TAMER), the design of
 ceramic materials (CERMAT2), the dynamics of foams (Soft Matter Dynamics), and quantum
 control (TheBlinQC).


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within the framework of FBaPS, research policy and coordination are the responsibility of the
 Faculty Research Committee, on which Mathematics is represented by the Head of Department
 (currently Cox) and the Departmental Director of Research (currently Gohm). Research matters
 are an important focus of frequent Departmental staff meetings, and members of staff are
 engaged in the research strategy through two-yearly individual meetings with the Faculty
 Associate Dean for Research, Knowledge Exchange and Innovation, and in annual review
 meetings with the Head of Department. All members of staff in the Department are associated
 with at least one research group, which provide the context for the delivery of the research
 strategy. The incorporation of Mathematics in the FBaPS, and its representation on the Faculty
 Research Committee, has enabled improvements in training for postgraduates and early career
 researchers and provided a channel to successfully advocate for the return of a percentage of
 research grant overheads directly to the PI in order to provide support for research development
 and dissemination.

 The Department’s Research Group structure is regularly reviewed and has been modified during
 the assessment period to reflect developing research agendas and new appointments, and thus
 to support the ongoing sustainability of the research environment. The Mathematical Modelling
 of Structures, Solids and Fluids (MMSSF) and the Quantum Structures, Information and Control
 (QStIC) Groups have been strengthened with new appointments, and a new Group established
 in Statistics, extending the research capacity of the Department.

   i.    The Mathematical Modelling of Structures, Solids and Fluids (MMSSF) Research
         Group brings together a broad range of interests in applied mathematics. Douglas is an
         analyst with interests in optimal mass transfer and its applications to rheology and
         meteorology. Mishuris and Vellender work in applied analysis, particularly in solid and
         fluid mechanics, with varied and extensive applications. Cox, Davies and Mughal work in
         soft matter, including modelling of foams, bubbles and sphere packings. The group has
         particular expertise in numerical simulation and supports a soft matter experimental
         laboratory.

         This group, the largest of the three, has been successful in adapting to new challenges in
         modelling (for example in biorheology and the dynamics of discrete structures). It makes
         a significant contribution to the Department's research income, from both RCUK, Royal
         Society and European (FP7, H2020) sources, with key international collaborators in Tel
         Aviv, Minsk, Trento (solid mechanics), Dublin and Paris (soft matter), and industrial
         support from the UK (BTG for medical treatments using foams) and overseas (SINTEF,
         Shell, Gazprom Neft and others involved in the petroleum industry). This group also
         contributes both impact case studies to this submission; these cover the use of bubbles
         and foams for mathematical outreach activities and mathematical and numerical
         modelling of fracture propagation to improve the accuracy of hydraulic fracturing.

   ii.   Members of the Quantum Structures, Information and Control (QStIC) Research
         Group have expertise in functional analysis and operator algebras, information theory
         and (non-commutative) stochastic analysis. Burgarth, Kiukas and Pitchford work in
         quantum control, information and statistics, and Evans and Gohm work in operator
         algebras and non-commutative probability, with particular expertise in applying
         techniques from mathematical physics and modern control theory to the emergent field of
         quantum control engineering. In his work on asymptotic completeness Gohm combines
         rigorous new results in operator algebras with applications to the preparation of states in
         quantum systems which are only indirectly accessible. This is of interest in quantum
         control and even for experimentalists and illustrates the potential of the specific
         combination of expertise that exists in this group, which has led to fruitful collaboration
         with researchers in Cork and Darmstadt, for example.

  iii.   The Statistics research group has been revitalized during the assessment period, with a
         new appointment (Kenobi) in applied statistics. Applications to biological data sets have
         strengthened the Department’s links with Aberystwyth's Computer Science and

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences Departments. For example, Kenobi is co-I
         on the species distribution modelling work package of the ECHOES project that has
         ERDF funding to work with researchers in Ireland to assess the effects of climate change
         on bird habitats. His collaborations with biologists have led to several highly-cited and
         visible papers, including a paper in Nature Communications on the circadian clock in the
         model organism Arabidopsis thaliana.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 In our REF 2014 submission, the Department’s research and impact strategies for the current
 assessment period focused on six key aims:

   i.    Producing and publishing high-quality research and growing research income streams;

   ii.   Recruiting and training junior researchers;

  iii.   Offering staff the time and money to exploit the interdisciplinary environment;

  iv.    Expanding international collaboration and organising international conferences;

  v.     Strengthening the impact of the Department’s research by supporting exploratory
         projects with potential to lead to research impact, and requiring that research proposals
         include a clear impact strategy, and recognising time committed to impact activity in
         workload allocations;

  vi.    Enhancing public engagement activities.

 The successful implementation of the research and impact strategies during the assessment
 period is demonstrated by the following achievements and outcomes:

   i.    The Department’s research output has remained high: staff have published over 200
         articles in peer-reviewed articles during the assessment period, an average of more than
         15 per FTE. These articles have already received over 1,000 citations, with an average
         of almost 6 citations per article (SciVal). Mishuris has published two books with Springer,
         and his edited proceedings of a Royal Society conference ran to two issues of Phil. Trans
         A. Our work has been highlighted by journals as of particular interest (for example, in
         Phys. Rev. Letts., Physics World, and Euro. Phys. J. E) or highly cited / most
         downloaded (e.g. Int. J. Eng. Sci.) and PhD students (Perkowska, Peck) have won prizes
         for their research. We have successfully fulfilled our ambition to win funding from Horizon
         2020, for example through the projects MatrixAssay, FAANon and Effectfact (see Section
         3).

   ii.   The Department continues to new attract excellent young researchers, as demonstrated
         by the appointment of new permanent staff in all three research groups. Three Sêr
         Cymru fellowship holders (Musolino and Dutko in MMSSF, McNulty in QStIC),
         beneficiaries of a HEFCW competitive scheme to attract world-leading researchers to
         Wales, and a Marie Curie Incoming Fellow (Dalla Riva) have been hosted during the
         period, instigating new lines of research in collaboration with permanent staff (see
         Section 2). Burgarth participated in the Imperial CDT on quantum information, bringing
         excellent PhD students to the Department, and the number of PhD students graduating
         during the census period has increased (11.5 research doctoral degrees awarded for
         REF 2021, compared to 7 awarded for REF 2014, a 17% increase in the annualised
         completion rate).

  iii.   Interdisciplinarity has been embedded in our approach to research: in our Research
         Groups (for example note the high proportion of QStIC papers in physics journals), within
         the University (exemplified by Kenobi’s links with Computer Science and IBERS, and the
         QStIC group’s links with Physics) and externally (for example Mishuris’ MatrixAssay

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         project with biologists and industrialists) (see Section 4). This has been facilitated and
         enhanced through teaching buyout (Mishuris), secondments of PhD students to industrial
         and academic partners (for example Eurotech in Poland), and a Sêr Cymru Industrial
         Future Generations Fellowship bringing Dutko (Rockfield) to the Department on a half-
         time basis.

  iv.    International collaboration has become central to our research ethos, with examples
         including Mishuris’ Horizon2020 funding, Burgarth’s participation in a QuantERA network,
         Kenobi’s involvement in the Wales-Ireland ECHOES project, and Cox’s participation in
         an ESA-funded project to perform microgravity foam experiments on the International
         Space Station in 2020. These have led to secondments of staff and PhD students abroad
         (see Section 4). In addition, staff have been involved in conference organisation across
         Europe (see Section 4).

  v.     Within the MMSSF and QStIC groups we have built critical mass to ensure that our
         research has greater impact. In the MMSSF group successful examples include Mishuris’
         work with a succession of PhD students on numerical algorithms for fracture; this has
         resulted in one of the submitted case studies. Impact activities are now recognised in the
         University’s Workload Allocation Model, and Mishuris has benefited from “impact leave”
         funding to pursue applications of his research.

  vi.    We have engaged the public through a range of outreach activities, with a particular
         emphasis on stimulating understanding of, and enthusiasm for, mathematics with young
         people. Davies and Cox’s use of research on area-minimising “foam” structures to
         engage audiences with ideas associated with optimisation and geometry are described in
         one of our impact case studies.

 In addition, we have engaged with the open science agenda, encouraging researchers in the
 Department to make publications open access, through either the ‘gold’ or ‘green’ routes, and
 where appropriate to make datasets and computer code publicly available. This has been
 supported by University policies and support services for open science, as described in REF5a,
 including funding for article processing charges for UKRI-funded research, through JISC
 agreements with publishers, and through the requirement for copies of author’s final manuscripts
 to be archived within the University Research Portal repository on acceptance for publication.

 In the next assessment period, the Department aims to further consolidate its research impact
 and its interdisciplinary and collaborative profiles, improve support for staff to obtain external
 research funding, and pursue research addressing significant societal, health and environmental
 challenges. In particular, we will adopt the following priorities:

   i.    To contribute to Welsh, UK and Global research challenges:
         The Department's over-riding goal is to support staff to pursue world-leading research
         contributing to Welsh, UK and Global research challenges. Mishuris’ work on hydraulic
         fracture, relevant to the EPSRC energy theme and the related context of energy security,
         has continued through this assessment period, following EU funding, and now has Sêr
         Cymru support for himself and Dutko, and Cox’s work on varicose vein treatments,
         relevant to the EPSRC Healthcare Technologies theme, show that we have successfully
         started to move in this direction. In biomechanics and medicine, we plan to further
         address UKRI challenges in healthcare (for example, in relation to non-invasive
         diagnosis of osteoporosis), and in statistics to investigate the effects of climate change.
         We will use our expertise in factorisation techniques to analyse the catastrophic
         destruction of defensive constructions and contribute, for example, to protection against
         earthquakes.

   ii.   To better support staff in seeking research funding:
         Our use of dedicated teaching staff has increased over the last REF cycle, providing
         research-active staff with more time for research. For example, Mishuris spent academic

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         year 2019-2020 on “impact leave” to develop his impact profile and improve our impact
         cases, and Kiukas was awarded a centrally-funded Graduate Teaching Assistant for
         2020-2021 to allow time for research. We plan to build on this success with further
         capture of income to offset teaching loads, and improve the frequency and quality of
         research grant applications. We will develop new sources of funding for PhD students,
         for example from large collaborative grants.

  iii.   To encourage international collaborative research across disciplines:
         We facilitate collaboration using internal funds for travel, visitors, and to encourage new
         collaborations leading to large grant applications. We will use the increased familiarity
         with online meetings to extend our joint work with partners for whom travel has previously
         proved too costly or time-consuming. A significant proportion of the overheads from any
         UKRI-funded grant is returned directly to the PI, which will allow the purchase of
         equipment and travel.

  iv.    To enhance our research impact:
         We will deepen the impact of our research by pursuing collaborations with end-users, for
         example in the micromechanics of complex materials, applications of factorisation
         techniques, and statistics applied to ecology. One way to achieve this will be to organise
         workshops and conferences with industrial participation. We will also broaden our
         outreach work in schools, at festivals and other events to bring more of our research to
         the attention of young people and the general public; our work on hydraulic fracturing,
         foams, and marine mammal sightings provide excellent research on which to base this.

 Collectively, these actions will support the future sustainability of the research environment in the
 Department and its continuing vitality, whilst working towards increased inclusivity and diversity.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The Department’s staffing strategy aims to enrich the vitality of its research environment by
 retaining, developing and rewarding excellent researchers, and to ensure sustainability by
 recruiting new researchers with a commitment to undertaking high-quality research with impact.
 The Department has made two new research appointments (Kenobi, Kiukas) in the assessment
 period and the total number of research active staff has increased on REF 2014, with 12 FTE
 staff in post. An emphasis on recruiting strong early career researchers has produced a forward-
 looking community with potential, consisting of two Professors, one Senior Lecturer, seven
 Lecturers and three independent Research Fellows (two of whom are 0.5 FTE).

 Of particular note has been the Department’s success in recruiting three excellent Research
 Fellows: Dalla Riva as a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellow and McNulty and Musolino
 through the Sêr Cymru COFUND scheme. In addition, the Department’s collaborative links have
 been strengthened by the secondment of Dutko from the SME Rockfield to work with Mishuris
 through a Sêr Cymru Industrial Fellowship.

 Additionally, six PDRAs have been employed to work on research projects in the Department on
 fixed-term contracts during the assessment period (Cooray, Kiukas, Peck, Pitchford, Vitasari,
 Wrobel). Kiukas, Peck and Pitchford have subsequently been appointed to academic posts in
 the Department; Cooray was appointed to a further PDRA post at UCL, Wrobel succeeded in
 obtaining a Marie Skłowdowska Curie Research Fellowship in Cyprus, and Vitasari returned to a
 lectureship in Indonesia. Sêr Cymru COFUND Fellow Musolino gained a permanent academic
 position in Venice and MSC Fellow Dalla Riva a tenure-track position in Tulsa. These
 appointments demonstrate the excellence of the Department as an environment for developing
 the potential of early career researchers.

 The Department’s research environment is also enhanced by the contribution of emeritus and
 honorary staff, including Walters, Binding, and A R Davies in Rheology, Abrahams in

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Factorisation Techniques (Wiener Hopf), Mavron, McDonough, Key in algebraic combinatorics,
 and now Burgarth in quantum control. These colleagues contribute by organising research
 conferences (for example, an annual rheology conference in Wales with significant international
 participation), publishing research (for example, Burgarth continues to publish with Pitchford),
 and providing guidance on funding opportunities (for example, Abrahams is a key contributor to
 collaborative EU bids that Mishuris is developing) and links with industry.

 Staff Development
 The Department supports Aberystwyth University’s implementation of the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers. Research staff, including PDRAs and
 research fellows, are assigned mentors within their Research Group, complete a probation
 agreement with targets for publications and conference presentations, and are encouraged to
 engage in internal and external professional development courses as well as a small amount of
 teaching to prepare them for permanent positions. At any one time during the census period
 there have been between two and four PDRAs in the Department, and up to two Research
 Fellows.

 All research-active staff can request research leave, at roughly one semester in eight, subject to
 an appropriate research plan for the leave period and a report giving the highlights of any
 previous periods of leave, enabling intense periods of research, the development of research
 grant applications, research impact (e.g. Mishuris in 2019-2020), and writing of major pieces of
 work. The research leave policy also provides for buy-outs funded by external grant income
 (Mishuris 2020-2021). Successful use of research leave is monitored and informs future
 decisions on leave allocation.

 Our use of dedicated teaching staff has increased over the last REF cycle, providing research-
 active staff with more time for research. In particular, the Department now has a full-time
 Teaching Fellow (Pitchford), who completed his PhD in quantum information during the
 assessment period.

 Applications for promotion are encouraged: candidates for promotion are mentored as they
 prepare their application. During the assessment period Burgarth was promoted to Reader,
 Gohm to Senior Lecturer, and Davies was made permanent. Kiukas and Kenobi successfully
 passed probation.

 All staff are expected to complete three days of personal staff development and training each
 year. This includes courses run locally, for example a compulsory course on financial
 management of research grants for successful applicants; and those run elsewhere, for example
 the HoDoMS Induction Course for New Lecturers in the Mathematical Sciences and the recent
 TALMO initiative. Staff development is supported by regular research planning and monitoring
 meetings at Department and Faculty level. Staff have an annual review meeting with the Head of
 Department as part of the Effective Contribution Scheme, which includes research; and research
 planning meetings with the Faculty Associate Dean for Research at least once every two years.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 An important and ongoing objective of our Research and Impact Strategy is to increase the
 number of postgraduate research students in the Department. This has been advanced by
 engaging with Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) bids and EU-funded Initial Training Networks
 (ITNs). The Faculty offers postgraduate scholarships to attract outstanding international and
 home students, in addition to the full AberDoc Scholarships (one of which is currently held by a
 maths PhD student) offered by the University. Additional scholarships have also come from both
 industry and EU sources, and through the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol scheme for students
 wishing to study in Welsh, as well as self-financed students from both the UK and overseas.
 Joint supervision of students in other departments (Computer Science and IBERS) has also
 strengthened collaborative links with these Departments, resulting in joint publications.
 Additionally, Burgarth was involved in external co-supervision of several students from the
 Imperial CDT prior to his move to Macquarie University in 2018.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A total of 22 PhD students studied in the Department during the assessment period: the
 submission rate was over 85%, with 11.5 research doctoral awards being made. This is an
 annualised improvement of 17% in the number of PhD awards relative to the seven awards
 reported in REF 2014. Destinations of completed PhD students include PDRA positions and
 Research Fellowships in Marseille, Louvain, Paris and Princeton, teaching posts in schools and
 universities, and jobs in banking and software engineering.

 All PGR students are given a desktop computer and shared office space within the Department
 to encourage close contact with each other and with staff. They are encouraged to use the staff
 common room to contribute to the Departmental research culture. Students are assigned a
 primary supervisor in their main research area and a second supervisor whose role varies within
 a spectrum that includes expertise in the subject of the thesis and pastoral support, depending
 on the needs of the student, the need for new academic staff to be mentored in research
 supervision, and Departmental practice in monitoring. For example, inexperienced primary
 supervisors are often paired with an experienced second supervisor, and vice versa.

 Internal academic training for PhD students is provided through regular research seminars
 given by internal and prominent external speakers, at regular Research Group meetings, and
 through giving research presentations (poster in year 2, talk in year 3) to all students and staff at
 an annual Faculty event. Students have the opportunity to participate in an annual University-
 wide PGR Conference, which incorporates the local competition for the national Vitae 3MT
 event.

 The Faculty provides further research training and skills development in a compulsory first
 year 20-credit generic postgraduate skills module, which includes courses on LaTeX and
 reading, writing and presentation skills for research. Kenobi and at least one other member of
 maths staff (currently Peck) contribute to the teaching on this module. All PhD students also
 receive centrally-provided research training, with modules ranging from public engagement to
 grant development workshops, and a compulsory module on responsible research, EDI, ethics
 and data management. An added benefit of the research training module provision is the
 networking with students from different disciplines.

 Students are encouraged to attend workshops and conferences, and they are each entitled to a
 bursary of up to £1000 for conference travel, with preference given to events at which they are
 presenting. Of particular importance for their development have been summer/winter schools
 organised by us (particularly Mishuris and Vellender) and by our research collaborators. They
 have also benefitted from workshops at the Isaac Newton Institute, and smaller workshops in
 partner universities such as Bath, Liverpool, Manchester, Cardiff and Swansea. PhD students
 have won conference prizes (for example Perkowska at Euromech 2015), been nominated for
 best paper awards (for example Peck in Phil. Mag.), and had their published work highlighted by
 journals (most recently Gorbushin in Phys. Rev. Letts.).

 Research students are offered the opportunity to contribute to teaching, for example by
 delivering problem classes / tutorials and demonstrating in computer programming classes. For
 those with a strong commitment to teaching, the University’s Teaching for Postgraduates at
 Aberystwyth University (TPAU) course leads to Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education
 Academy (e.g. Roberts in 2019). Research students gain experience in conference organisation
 by assisting with the conferences organised by staff.

 Research progress is monitored annually, and satisfactory progress after one year is a
 necessary pre-requisite to move from the MPhil to the PhD programme. The monitoring takes
 the form of brief reports from the student and both supervisors and a substantial research report
 from the student, confirming that progress is being made and that the future direction of the
 project is clear and understood by the student. This is assessed by the Departmental Director of
 Research, the student’s second supervisor, and a board of academic staff from the Faculty.


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The Department is a supporter of the LMS Good Practice Scheme for equality, and the
 University was awarded an Athena Swan Bronze award in 2014. Kenobi, the Department’s
 Equality Champion, is part of the team preparing the University’s next Athena Swan
 submission. Our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) issues is recognised by
 Aberystwyth University’s Disability Confident Employer accreditation and inclusion in Stonewall’s
 Top 100 UK Employers for a LGBT+ friendly workplace. All staff are required to have completed
 Equality and Diversity Training and a number of networks promote equality issues and provide
 support for researchers, including the Women in Research Network, BAME Network and LGBT
 Network. Kenobi also contributed to the University’s Strategic Equality Plan 2020-2024, liaising
 with the Diversity and Inclusion Manager in Human Resources. He also oversees a series of
 events for Mental Health awareness week each year, as well as helping to set up the
 University’s Disability and Wellbeing Network. The Department has adopted policies and
 practices to facilitate inclusive engagement, for example scheduling meetings between 9.30am
 and 3pm in order to provide flexibility for those with childcare responsibilities.

 Principles of equality and inclusion have been incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process,
 as outlined in the University’s Code of Practice, with all members of the REF Reading
 Committee and supplementary reviewers required to have completed unconscious bias training.
 The Departmental REF Reading Committee has also included an independent member from a
 cognate Department in the Faculty to monitor fair practice. Applications for output reductions for
 Individual Staff Circumstances are assessed through an anonymous process, with decisions
 made outside the Department.

 Diversity is high within the Department: 30% of permanent full-time T&R staff were awarded
 their first degree outside the UK and over 80% of PDRAs/research fellows have overseas
 research experience. In addition, 20% of PDRAs/research fellows and 17% of PhD students are
 female.

 The University operates bilingually in English and Welsh, and staff are welcome to contribute in
 either language. This broadens the outlook of the Department and brings new initiatives: staff
 organise an annual science conference in Aberystwyth for Welsh-speakers, and we have
 initiated a Welsh-medium session at the annual Gregynog Mathematics Colloquium, while
 Davies published the first Mathematics paper in the Welsh-language research journal Gwerddon
 (and prepared the journal’s LaTeX template).

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Research in the Department is supported by external grant income, including participation in
 large collaborative projects with partners elsewhere in the UK and internationally, and increasing
 research grant capture is a key ongoing objective of our Research Strategy. In the assessment
 period, the total research income is £3.04M plus £4.2M income-in-kind, compared to £1.67M in
 REF 2014. This represents an average research income of £435k per annum from various
 sources (excluding income-in-kind), a 30% increase compared to the average research income
 of £334k per annum in REF 2014. The research income per FTE is over £36k per annum, an
 increase of 16% per FTE compared to the annualised income per FTE for REF 2014.

 EU funding from FP7 and Horizon 2020 awards has been an important contributor to our
 research income, especially at the start of the assessment period. Funded projects have
 included:
       Matrixassay (2015-2019): £217k from H2020 for work on biomechanics, particularly in
         indentation testing of cartilage for diagnosis of arthritis;
       PARM-2 (2012-2015): £503k from FP7 to use parametric resonance to increase the
         efficiency of minerals processing;
       TAMER (2014-2018): £119k from FP7 to analyse the properties of composite materials
         with complex microstructure;

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        CERMAT2 (2013-2017): £424k from FP7 to model the design of ceramic materials.

 In addition, European funding has supported the ECHOES project (£822k for all Aberystwyth
 investigators, including £27k for Kenobi, through INTERREG) for modelling the effects of climate
 change with an emphasis on the effects of changes in land use on declining bird species; and
 the Soft Matter Dynamics project (£42k from the European Space Agency) to exploit
 microgravity to improve predictive modelling of foam evolution.

 In response to uncertainty over the continuation of access to European research funds after
 Brexit, we have more recently strategically targeted UK funding and have increased income from
 UKRI grants. For example, the balance between UKRI and EU income has shifted from £10k vs.
 £508k in 2013-2014, to £104k vs. £267k in 2016-2017, to £145k vs. £250k in 2018-2019.

 The Department’s UKRI funding has included research on quantum information (Burgarth, £96k
 in 2015, £277k in 2019) and the flow of soft matter (Cox, £255k, 2016-19). Research funding for
 QStIC has also included support for students working with Burgarth through the Imperial CDT in
 Controlled Quantum Dynamics.

 Recent funding for research on foams also came via the GCRF for work in protein recycling from
 tofu production (£4.4k). Cox is part of the modelling team for microgravity foam experiments that
 were performed on the International Space Station in 2020, contributing £4.2M to the
 Department’s in-kind income. The University Research Fund supported Mughal’s instigation of
 an international conference series on Packing Problems.

 We encourage fellowship applications, offering scholarships for PhD students to work with staff
 who are successful in EPSRC proposals. Mishuris was awarded a Wolfson Research Merit
 Award in 2016 and a Sêr Cymru Industrial Fellowship in 2020 with Dutko. Musolino (2017-2019)
 and McNulty (2018-2020) received Sêr Cymru COFUND Fellowships, co-funded by the Welsh
 Government and the EU’s Horizon 2020 programme, and Dalla Riva was awarded a Marie Curie
 Skłowdowska Incoming Fellowship (FAANon) in 2015.

 Industry funding came from BTG for a PhD student to work on varicose vein sclerotherapy with
 Cox. This, and Mishuris’ HYDROFRAC project (for which EU funding ended in 2014, but which
 benefited from further internal funding to generate greater impact), are the culmination of a
 concerted effort to develop applications of our research (see Section 4)

 Strategies for identifying research opportunities, developing applications, and generating grant
 income involve support at both a Departmental level, using the expertise of senior staff, and at a
 University level, through Aberystwyth’s Department of Research Business and Innovation (RBI).
 The latter offers resources including an internal library of successful grant applications,
 facilitation of strategic bids for large research grants, and interaction with UKRI/EPSRC and
 UKRO.

 All research proposals are peer-reviewed by a senior member of the Department, as well as a
 Research Support Officer in RBI. Mentors, selected from among the senior staff in the
 Department, also advise Early Career Researchers on grant application processes, the funding
 landscape, and internal University procedures, particularly during the probationary period.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Research in the Department is supported by access to excellent research facilities and
 equipment, with investment in upgrades received during the assessment period. Staff and
 students undertaking numerical computing have powerful desktop computers and ample storage
 provided by the Faculty. This is supplemented by universal access to Supercomputing Wales,
 the second generation of Welsh high-performance computing, a £16 million investment in high
 performance computing infrastructure, training and support at Aberystwyth, Bangor, Cardiff and
 Swansea universities by the European Regional Development Fund and Welsh Government,
 which replaced the first generation HPC Wales project in 2018.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Experimental research on complex fluids, granular materials and foams is based in the Soft
 Matter Laboratory, which is a joint facility with the Physics Department that has evolved from the
 Mathematics Department’s Rheology Laboratory. Equipment includes a rotational rheometer,
 replaced in 2020 with a TA HR30 instrument (through £60k of investment from HEFCW capital
 funding), allowing characterisation of a wide range of complex fluids and soft solids, and a Vision
 Research Phantom V7.3 colour high speed camera, allowing features such as bubble bursting
 and other transient effects in soft matter to be visualised. The laboratory is supported by a
 mechanical workshop and an electronics workshop.

 Research is well supported by the Physical Sciences Library, with specialised texts and
 journals (including online access) for Mathematics, Physics and Computer Science co-located
 with staff offices. The Department hosts the Scott Blair Collection of books and papers on
 rheology, on behalf of the British Society of Rheology and with the support of library staff. This
 houses almost 600 books on rheology, conference proceedings and journals, and research
 articles, some of them annotated by Scott Blair, providing a rich resource for the University and
 the Society, particularly those with an interest in the history of the subject. We also enjoy access
 to the National Library of Wales, a copyright-deposit library located adjacent to the University
 campus.

 In addition to the centralised RBI team, described in the Institutional Environment Statement
 REF5a, administrative support for research is shared across the Faculty. This team provides
 support for grant applications, grant maintenance, and research monitoring of staff and students.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 The Department has an ethos of outward-looking collaborative work, with colleagues in other
 subject areas in Aberystwyth University, with industrial partners in Wales, the UK and Europe,
 and with scientific collaborators across the globe. Projects funded by Horizon 2020, UKRI and
 other sources have stimulated joint research and publications with colleagues in more than 25
 countries worldwide, with 79% (according to SciVal) of the Department’s research outputs
 including an overseas co-author.

 International collaborations include work by members of the MMSSF Group with researchers at
 Trinity College Dublin (Ireland), Paris Diderot (France) and Murdoch University (Australia) for
 soft matter, and in TU Berlin (Germany), Trento, Modena e Reggio Emilia (Italy), Tel Aviv (Israel),
 NTNU Trondheim (Norway), Paris Sciences et Lettres (France) and Tufts (US) for solid
 mechanics; and by the QStIC Group with colleagues in Cork (Ireland), Darmstadt (Germany),
 Turku (Finland), Bombay (India), Macquarie (Australia) and Hanyang (South Korea).

 Exemplars include Mishuris’ coordination of an EU-funded IAPP partnership (PARM-2) and an
 IRSES exchange scheme (TAMER) with institutions across Europe, and his leading roles in an
 ITN doctoral training project (CERMAT2) and a RISE staff exchange project (MatrixAssay). Staff
 working on foams are supporters of a biennial European conference on the subject, which was
 held “virtually” in Aberystwyth in 2020; this network is the basis for Cox's involvement in the “Soft
 Matter Dynamics” European Space Agency project. Burgarth’s QuantERA project included
 researchers from many European countries and the INTERREG-funded ECHOES project
 involves academics at Aberystwyth and Cork as well as non-academic partners.

 The sustainability of the Department’s international collaborations is supported by networking
 activity. Our international outlook is sustained by sabbaticals to overseas institutions; these
 include visiting researcher positions at TU Darmstadt (Gohm), Université Paris Diderot (Cox),
 and the Italian universities of Trento, Modena and Emilia Reggio, and Cagliari (Mishuris) and
 Skoltech, Moscow (Mishuris). Mishuris has given presentations about the Department to
 university officials, students and school pupils in Poland and Abu-Dhabi. Conversely, we
 welcome visitors to Aberystwyth for extended periods of time, many of them funded by our

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborative grants (for example PhD students from St. Petersburg and Padova) and others
 from external sources such as the Royal Society (e.g. Vrid (Kiev), a collaboration which
 supported the impact of Mishuris‘ fracking research in the Ukraine).

 Impactful work with industry includes Mishuris's hydraulic fracture codes, which have been
 taken up by SINTEF in Norway and Rockfield in Swansea (the latter as part of a Sêr Cymru
 Industrial Fellowship with Dutko), among others, providing one of our impact case studies.
 Mishuris has also provided consultancy work for SINTEF (Norway) and Cox has worked with the
 biomedical company BTG on the use of foams for medical treatments. Partners on the ECHOES
 project include Compass Bioinformatics in Ireland and a GIS and remote sensing consultancy in
 Wales, as well as conservationists in Wales and Ireland. This latter collaboration builds on
 Kenobi’s close work with the New Quay Seawatch Foundation on marine mammal sightings,
 which now involves a self-funded PhD student.

 Internally, researchers in the Department frequently work with each other: all but one of the
 permanent research staff in the Department have co-authored publications with a colleague
 during the assessment period. Researchers in the QStIC Group work closely with staff in the
 Physics Department (for example Gohm has published with Gough on quantum control), with
 whom they organise joint seminars and group meetings. Kenobi’s statistical expertise is much in
 demand from the university’s biological scientists, resulting in several joint papers, joint
 supervision of PhD students in bioinformatics, and leading the statistics work package of the
 ECHOES project on climate change. Following the creation of the FBaPS in 2018, opportunities
 for expanding interdisciplinary research collaborations have been explored through research
 ‘speed dating’ and sandpit events organised by the Faculty.

 Contributions to the Discipline and Research Base
 Members of the Department make significant contributions to the vitality and sustainability of the
 research base in Mathematical Sciences through participation in learned societies, leading roles
 in conferences, and editorial roles with scientific journals. The research contribution of staff and
 their standing in the discipline has been recognised in awards, including the Royal Society’s
 Wolfson Research Merit Award to Mishuris, and the Eilir Hedd Morgan Memorial Prize from the
 Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol to Davies.

 Members of the Department are active in Learned Societies. Cox was Honorary Secretary of
 the British Society of Rheology (BSR) (until 2016) and is now the BSR President-elect (2020-
 2024). Cox and Mishuris are fellows of the Learned Society of Wales and Mishuris sits on the
 scrutiny committee (2018-2022) for the election of new fellows in Mathematics and Computer
 Science.

 Cox and Mishuris are on the editorial boards of high-profile international journals (Cox: J. Eng.
 Math; and Mishuris: Proc. Roy. Soc., Intl. J. Eng. Sci., Math. Mech. Solids), and all staff act as
 reviewers for journals. Cox and Mishuris also serve on grant awarding panels in the UK
 (EPSRC) and overseas (Italy, Poland, Germany, Israel, Portugal), and as external advisors for
 both UK and overseas institutions (e.g. Mishuris at Skoltech, Moscow). Mishuris has edited
 Special Issues of Phil. Trans. Royal. Soc., Proc. Royal Soc., Acta Mechanics, Geotechnics and
 Computers.

 We have also contributed to the mathematics community by organising conferences and
 training events for PhD students, bringing together mathematicians and scientists with a
 broad range of specialisms. Mughal organises a series of conferences on Packing Problems
 (Erlangen 2014, Shanghai 2016, Yale in 2019) and staff have organised two meetings at the
 Isaac Newton Institute (Weiner Hopf Techniques (WHT), Mishuris, 2019 and Foams and Minimal
 Surfaces (FMS), Cox, 2014). Foam researchers (Cox, Davies, Mughal) hosted Eufoam2020 in
 Aberystwyth and the INNFM Spring Meeting on Structured Fluids in north Wales in 2015.
 Mishuris has organised many workshops, including events in Portugal (on Wiener Hopf
 techniques), Italy (on dynamic fracture), Poland (on hydraulic fracture), and St Petersburg (on
 advanced mechanics). In 2020 our emphasis switched to online events, such as the

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EUFoam2020 conference, and also a Mathematical Physics - Physical Mathematics seminar
 series (Evans, Gohm).

 Mishuris and Cox have organised and contributed to schools for PhD students and early career
 researchers on Micromechanics, Poland and Italy (2015), Ceramic Materials, Italy (2016), and
 Foam Mechanics, Indonesia (2019). Staff have acted as external examiner for PhD theses in
 four countries as well as the UK.

 Staff from the Department have been invited to speak at numerous conferences and
 workshops during the census period. Examples include the International Symposium on
 Applied Rheology (South Korea, Cox, 2016), Analysis in Quantum Information Theory (Institut
 Henri Poincaré, Paris, Gohm, 2017), Three days in Quantum Mechanics (Genova, Kiukas, 2018)
 and Fracture in solid mechanics: mathematical and physical aspects (Sorbonne Université,
 Paris, Mishuris, 2019). Staff have also participated in programmes at the Isaac Newton Institute
 (OAS-Gohm; WHT-Mishuris, Peck and Vellender; CAT-Mishuris; SIP-Mishuris; FMS-Davies, Cox
 and Mughal), the ICMS (Cox) and BIRS (Mishuris).

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 The Department is committed to enhancing the application and impact of its research, as well as
 to contributing to public understanding of mathematics through public engagement and outreach
 activities.

 For example, Mishuris’ HYDROFRAC project has stimulated impact in the oil industry, where
 the research is improving the accuracy of predictions of the path of a moving crack. The
 Norwegian research organisation SINTEF, the Russian oil company Gazprom Neft, and the SME
 Rockfield, based in South Wales, are all implementing the analytic framework to accurately track
 the tip of a fracture (derived in the project) in their simulation codes; this research forms one of
 our impact case studies.

 Our expertise in modelling the flow of non-Newtonian fluids has led to Cox’s collaboration with
 BTG to characterise the delivery and to assess the efficiency of their foam-based varicose vein
 treatment. This treatment is a less-invasive, less-costly alternative to treatments for this painful
 condition such as laser ablation, but required a new mathematical model of foam flow in veins to
 determine the optimal parameter space in which to operate.

 Contributions to society including Kenobi’s collaboration with conservationists and the
 contribution of his work to marine mammal conservation in Cardigan Bay and the Irish Sea, as
 well as participation by Mishuris in a British Council policy-making event on Energy Security,
 bringing together views from Russia, the Ukraine and the EU (2014). Three PDRAs/research
 fellows, McNulty, Musolino and Pitchford, and a PhD student have represented the Department
 at Parliament via the STEM for Britain competition (2016, 2018, 2019).

 Public engagement and outreach activities to enhance public understanding of science have
 included talks and demonstrations in schools, science festivals and eisteddfods, notably
 activities created by Davies and Cox on foams and optimisation. This effort to relate intuition
 about familiar objects (bubbles) to mathematical ideas, drawing praise from teachers and
 national organisations in Wales, and inspiring an interest in Mathematics for children in
 particular, forms the second of our impact case studies.

 We are also using our expertise to contribute to debates around new and developing
 technologies. For example, Gohm, Pitchford and Kiukas are able to explain their research and
 its possible implications for society in the context of quantum computing, which formed the basis
 of a webinar for A-level students. In addition, Cox has written for The Conversation on water
 waves, now translated into Spanish and Japanese, and recorded a video on the geometry of the
 new pound coin with over 2000 views on YouTube.



                                                                                              Page 12
