Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth (UoP)


 Unit of Assessment: 27 – English Language and Literature


 1       Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1     Structure and context

 The configuration of this UoA represents development towards a new synthesis of English-
 based studies at Portsmouth. Its long-standing components are the Centre for Studies in
 Literature (CSL), formed in 2009, and language-based colleagues, who have been part of the
 successful and interdisciplinary Centre for European and International Studies Research
 (CEISR) since the 1990s. Over the last decade, Portsmouth has supported the strengthening
 and broadening of the research base in adjacent fields, most notably translation-based
 linguistics and the study of international English, and the emergence of a significant cluster of
 creative writing researchers. This has created the conditions for a developing synthesis of
 approaches across these fields. Significant work has been done already on intersections of
 communication and identity, literary and heritage narratives, and the many-layered issues of
 effective and ethical communication in the contemporary world.

 The Unit’s submission comprises 29 staff (27 FTE), more than double the number of staff we
 submitted in REF2014 (13, 12.5 FTE). Staff are based in two faculties: Humanities and Social
 Sciences (FHSS) and Creative and Cultural Industries (FCCI), and comprise 10 linguists, 13
 literary specialists and 6 creative writers.

 Research leadership within UoA27 is provided by the Associate Deans (Research) in both
 faculties, who coordinate institutional support and offer strategic guidance. Research Centres
 provide a collegial forum for intellectual support and mentorship. Both Centres report to their
 Faculty Research & Innovation Committee (FRIC), which oversees the development and
 implementation of research strategy.

 From within the two Centres, several interdisciplinary research clusters have emerged, creating
 and strengthening affinities between staff and opening up opportunities for research. Within
 CEISR these are:

        Discourse, Communication & Society: connections between society and language in
         areas such as globalisation, politics, and social media.

        Language & International Education: the theory and practice of teaching English as a
         foreign language, and transnational education.

        Translation & Interpreting: the practice and politics of translation and interpreting
         technologies and literary translation.

 Within CSL, a similar cluster structure defines and contextualises individual staff interests:


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Body Politics: understandings of literal and metaphorical bodies and cultural
       constructions of the body.

      Culture, Community and Heritage: how communities are formed, and disintegrated,
       through the sharing of writing, reading, and the literary dissemination of ideas.

      Time, Space, Environment: how landscape and environment shape culture and
       identity.

      Speculative Fiction: from work inspired by ancient mythology to the supernatural and the
       post-apocalyptic in flash fiction.

 1.2   Research strategy: objectives 2014-2020

 Research within UoA27 has benefited from the University decision in 2014 to devolve QR
 funding to the faculties that were responsible for its generation (REF5a para. 63). QR
 funding has been used to build capacity within the Unit through support for Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs) and staff returning to research after a career break, a strategic project fund
 to build collaborative and interdisciplinary research (see section 3.2), and the provision of
 professional development allowances (PDAs) (see section 2.1).

 Our broad strategy, set out in 2014, included six key ambitions which, after consultation, were
 embraced by the newly-configured UoA:

  1    Continue to produce high-quality outputs: we have increased both the quantity and
       quality of our outputs by publishing in well-established peer-reviewed outlets. Our current
       submission derives from a pool of 118 outputs, assessed to be of high-quality through our
       internal and external peer review processes, including 18 monographs.

  2    Increase our external research income: income has increased from £35k in the
       REF2014 period to £52.5k. Effective training and support has increased our skills and
       capacity. We have diversified the sources of funding we are targeting, for example,
       SAKAMOTO secured funding from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science and the
       GB Sasakawa Foundation. We have also worked to increase bidding activity, identify new
       areas of research, and form new collaborative partnerships. Although falling outside the
       current REF environment window, the success of this strategy is highlighted by DAVIES’
       recent collaboration with the University of Copenhagen, which is supported by £160k from
       the Carlsberg Foundation.

  3    Increase postgraduate recruitment: our PhD completions have risen significantly, from 2
       in REF2014 to 12 in the current cycle. Applications have also increased and there are
       currently 42 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs) undertaking doctoral studies in
       UoA27. This is the result of a successful policy of support. We have also augmented our
       pipeline towards doctoral studies by developing distinctive postgraduate taught courses.
       These include: an MRes in Literary Studies which has enrolled 29 students since 2016/17;
       an MA in Victorian Gothic (12 students in the first cohort in 2019/20 and 44 for 2020/21);
       and a distance learning MA in Applied Linguistics and TESOL (112 in the 2019/20 cohort).


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  4    Work towards attracting postdoctoral researchers: Our aim was to support diversity
       and encourage interdisciplinary collaboration. We have actively supported postdoctoral
       applications to such initiatives as Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships and Marie
       Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships. We have also been highly successful in attracting visiting
       scholars on short-term exchanges, having hosted 42 scholars from countries including
       China, Mongolia, Algeria and Brazil (see section 4.1).

  5    Organise research events: we developed a vibrant programme of international research
       events. These include 14 one-day symposia (e.g. ‘Ways of Meaning: Metaphor in
       Language Analysis’, 2018); a research seminar series with 70 external speakers; 6 annual
       lectures; 6 postgraduate conferences (e.g. ‘Collectors and Collecting’, 2015); 20 public
       lectures (e.g., ‘H.G. Wells at 150’, 2016); and 10 large conferences (e.g., ‘Queer Celebrity’,
       June, 2019; ‘Portsmouth Translation Conference’, 2015).

  6    Maintain and develop relationships with local and regional communities to
       maximise external funding opportunities and the development of new collaborative
       research initiatives: UoA27 has been very successful in this objective. We have
       developed collaborative links with a range of local partners, for instance BERBERICH’s
       work with The D-Day Story museum, the establishment of the Portsmouth Writers’ Hub as
       a Community Interest Company, and the organisation, hosting and promotion of local
       events like Bookfest and online events like National Flash Fiction Day, now in its 11th year.
       We have also developed relationships with national communities, such as RINGROW’s
       association with The Girls' Network, a UK-based charity with the mission to inspire and
       empower girls from the least advantaged communities. We have opened a new direction
       for community engagement at a global level. Our linguistics researchers, led by HADIKIN,
       have explored how the language used in the advertising and administration of ‘citizen
       science’ and other large-scale participatory digital projects affects public engagement.

 1.3   Research strategy: objectives 2021-2026

 English at Portsmouth will continue to develop and consolidate its broad perspective on
 language and literature as means of communication that can reach across cultures, and across
 centuries. To deliver this ambition we are committed to growing our research and impact
 capacity. We have identified four key elements for development over the next REF period.

  1    Build critical mass in three key areas: senior leadership, BAME staff, and ECRs. Over
       the coming REF cycle we will develop senior research leadership, seeking to build a
       professoriate, especially through internal promotion. We will deliver targeted workshops on
       “preparing for promotion” for female and BAME staff. We will also seek to recruit BAME
       staff and ECRs in our areas of strength and incentivise existing staff with research
       potential. The objective will be achieved through incentives embedded in the workload
       allocation system and annual Performance and Development Review (PDR), targeted
       internal funding, including seeking support from the Alumni and Advancement team, and
       improved recruitment policies (REF5a para. 62).

  2    Increase external income: The focus of the Unit’s work during this cycle has been to
       develop staff capacity and skills in generating high-quality research through meaningful

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       and sustained collaborations at regional, national and international level. The next phase
       of the Unit’s strategy is to utilise these capabilities to facilitate a significant growth in
       externally funded research. This will be achieved through continued mentoring and
       encouragement of a broader engagement with the university’s interdisciplinary
       environment, as well as amplification of our successful policy of building capacity through
       pursuit of small grants. We have also identified research areas for support through internal
       seedcorn funding to build capacity for external bids, for example, connections between
       language-learning and translation and work with Portsmouth’s Area Studies community on
       building foreign language capacity in order to improve relationships between NGOs and
       their target populations.

  3    Developing impactful research: through serving the needs of society and those of our
       home city, in particular. Consistent with our ambition of becoming a leading civic university,
       our engagements will be both grounded in, and productive of, research that enhances the
       civic and ethical value of communication in all forms, contributing distinctively to the
       University’s ‘Democratic Citizenship’ research theme (REF5a para. 9). All components of
       the Unit have a valuable role to play in this objective. Reflection on past crises and
       traumas through literary narratives can connect to study of contemporary experiences of
       displacement and loss; the role of communication, self-expression and understanding can
       be reinforced through study of the use of language in such processes; writing itself, as in
       HABENS’ ‘Ink:Well’ project, can be an empowering route to dealing with crisis. As part of
       our key impact objective of amplifying marginalised voices, we are also committed to
       exploring possibilities for publications that break down barriers between academic
       publishing and the wider public realm. Our online journalistic and creative-writing platform,
       Star & Crescent, plays a role in this ambition.

  4    Strengthen collaborations and networks: We have built a successful programme of
       visiting scholarships and developed productive national and international collaborations.
       We will expand these areas of activity and support colleagues to capitalise fully on their
       connections, in particular through productive collaborations with visiting scholars. We will
       more effectively align our work with the University’s interdisciplinary research themes in
       order to develop networks outside of our faculties and take advantage of support for
       developing projects.

 1.4   Approaches to achieving sustainable impact

 Our approach to supporting impact is underpinned by a university-wide policy (REF5a paras. 11-
 19). In order to identify and develop impactful work, research groups liaised with the Impact
 Lead (ROUSSELOT), the Faculty’s Associate Dean Research, and the University’s Research
 Impact Manager (REF5a para. 57). The UoA has benefited from impact training and funding
 from the Faculty Impact Acceleration Fund. Colleagues authoring case studies for REF2021
 have received a 100-hour workload allowance.

 UoA27’s commitment to impact is guided by the key strategic principles of holding power to
 account, challenging contemporary economic structures and amplifying marginalised
 voices. Each of the selected Impact Case Studies reflect these principles. UoA27FEMINISM
 takes as its foundation a long-term political commitment to women’s liberation, and is built

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 around active coproduction of research and engagement with the past and present experiences
 of people whose voices demand to be acknowledged, and commemorated. Its commitment to
 amplifying the voices of the marginalised is exemplified in a comprehensive programme of public
 events, the creation of resources, and the transfer of knowledge and skills between stake-
 holders. UoA27MACHINETRANSLATION sees SAKAMOTO and RODRÍGUEZ DE CÉSPEDES
 exploring the neglected human factors at work in the adaptation of technology and ensuring
 representation of translators’ voices within a technology-driven business landscape. The
 researchers are committed to continuing engagement with the transnational translator
 community and positive transformations of business practices. UoA27RUSKIN explores
 sustainable alternatives to a socially and environmentally exploitative economy. FROST’s
 collaborations with the Guild of St George have significantly raised awareness of these aspects
 of Ruskin’s work and encouraged work to be undertaken around sustainable farming,
 conservation management, and the revitalisation of skilled crafts.

 UoA27’s research also asserts the vital power of the written word in delivering impact.
 BERBERICH’s commitment to the continuing significance of narratives of the Holocaust has led
 to an engagement with local schools, broadening (with further input from ROUSSELOT) to
 embrace the commemoration of both World Wars, and leading to public readings, film
 screenings, and co-development of new school curriculum resources. The Creative Writing team
 is committed to highlighting troubling situations through effective and engaging writing directed
 at a broad audience. This translates into the public profile of the Star & Crescent (which receives
 an average of 7000 hits per month), and which makes an open commitment to “Hold power to
 account [and] provide a platform on which to raise up missing and marginalised voices”. It has
 drawn in a substantial range of local contributors for news, commentary, historical
 discovery/recovery, and poetry and prose fiction-writing.

 1.5   Approaches to Interdisciplinarity

 Interdisciplinarity permeates our working context, from the organisation of our departmental
 research structures to the priorities of our internal funding programmes. Much of our work aligns
 with the University’s interdisciplinary research theme in Democratic Citizenship (REF5a para. 9)
 and seeks to promote equality, citizenship, and civic engagement.

 CEISR as a research centre has been a leading promoter of interdisciplinary innovation in
 Area Studies on the national stage for over twenty years, and under the label of ‘Language
 Across Borders’ our linguists contributed significantly to wide-ranging and interdisciplinary
 research on language practices that raised awareness of European Union policy-making and its
 repercussions. We remain entirely committed to situating all our work within a context of
 interdisciplinary enquiry and global reflection wherever it is appropriate to deliver concrete
 benefits. Examples of our work include a 2015 international conference on ‘The Power of
 Language in Post-Colonial Africa’, addressing the roles of local and European languages in the
 tension between global cultural/economic flows and issues of identity, state-building and
 decolonisation. Our continuing position of significance in this field was marked in 2019 when we
 hosted the annual conference of the ‘Language in Africa’ Special Interest Group of the British
 Association of Applied Linguistics. 21 speakers from applied linguistics, sociolinguistics, area
 studies, international relations, and media studies engaged with the theme of decolonisation.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Their work will lead to an edited volume to be published with Multilingual Matters (forthcoming
 2022).

 CSL has found particular success working across the boundaries between literature,
 creative writing and history/heritage. A collaboration with historians around the theme of
 Victorian literary heritage in Portsmouth produced an ICS for REF2014. Over this REF cycle this
 has been developed as the basis for the ongoing ‘Celebrity, Citizenship and Status’ project. This
 research draws on literary and wider media studies alongside elements of both linguistic and
 historical scholarship to examine the relationship between individual public fame and the
 contours of the democratic public sphere, and the impact of this on public identification with
 celebrity figures, texts, and characters. Five of the active project members are in this UoA
 (BOYCE, DAVIES, DEW, FINNERTY, RINGROW). This project hosted a successful
 international symposium, ‘Death and the Celebrity’, in 2018, and a full-scale conference on
 ‘Queer Celebrity’ the following year. It has supported the development of a range of recent
 publications, including two edited collections and a forthcoming co-authored book on Celebrity in
 the Long Nineteenth Century. Creative-writing colleagues have worked closely with BELL, a
 UoA25 historian, in the wide-ranging ‘Supernatural Cities’ project, the outputs of which include
 ‘DarkFest’, an annual programme of literary and cultural public events. Contributions include
 JANICKER’s 'New Directions for Horror' panel session at Portsmouth Comic Con (2019) and
 SYKES’ chapter in Bell’s Supernatural Cities: Enchantment, Anxiety and Spectrality (shortlisted
 for the 2020 Folklore Society’s Katharine Briggs Award). HABENS is also involved in a digital
 storytelling project, with ‘choose your own adventure’ pathways around sites of local historic and
 folkloric interest. Ongoing work involves HABENS devising immersive and interactive narratives
 (including Virtual Reality) for a series of European community projects.

 1.6   Approaches to open research, research integrity, and ethics

 The University supports broader access to data and knowledge and UoA27’s engagement with
 Open Access exceeds both institutional targets and REF compliance (REF5a para. 24). The
 University has an institutional target of 95% compliance with Research England’s REF Open
 Access policy; Open Access compliance for UoA27 currently stands at 100% of all outputs.
 The University has a target of 80% of academics to have ORCIDs; 85.2% of UoA27 members
 have an ORCID.

 Members of this UoA are working towards achieving a fully open research environment, going
 beyond what is provided at institutional level by our research repository system, Pure. This is
 visible for instance in the range of mechanisms we have developed to share our research
 openly, such as HABENS’s website (AlisonHabens.com) and the Star & Crescent platform.
 DEW’s monograph was made open access under Manchester University Press’ Knowledge
 Unlatched Scheme.

 Our Faculty Ethics Committee, staffed by experienced researchers from a range of disciplines,
 oversees the ethical review process, which is mandatory for all research projects. CSL and
 CEISR mentorship ensures that researchers are fully aware of the University’s policies and
 supported as required. All PGRs undergo dedicated ethics and ethical compliance training, in




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 conjunction with the University Graduate School. These processes are supported by a
 University-wide Research Governance Policy and Ethics Policy (REF5a paras 22-3).


 2       People

 2.1     Staff development and support

 Staff development in UoA27 is delivered through a programme of mentoring support by the two
 Research Centres (CSL and CEISR), a wide range of resources for personal and career
 development, and targeted support for research-related activity and delivery of outcomes.

 2.1.1    Mentoring schemes and networks

 All staff members have access to a research mentor. Mentors provide discipline-specific
 advice to complement the institutional focus of the Performance and Development Review
 (PDR) (REF5a paras. 2, 53). Mentors are usually assigned via the Research Centre and offer
 wide-ranging support for the mentee’s development as a scholar and researcher.

 This is complemented by periodic and responsive use of ways of bringing individuals at different
 career-stages together for support and guidance. For example, the ‘Celebrity, Citizenship and
 Status’ project was developed at hot-housing workshops organised by CSL. Additionally, a
 flexible definition of ‘early career’ is used to encourage full participation in supportive networks.
 Colleagues are able to remain members of the collaboratively-organised Faculty and University
 ECR networks for as long as they feel the support is useful.

 2.1.2    Staff training and support

 Staff training and support needs are met in three ways. First, the University’s Research &
 Innovation Services (RIS) department runs workshops and information sessions on a wide
 range of relevant topics (REF5a para. 33). Additional workshops tailored to the Unit are
 organised by the Humanities and Social Sciences Research and Innovation Office.

 Secondly, all staff are entitled to an annual Professional Development Allowance (PDA,
 £1500), which may be spent on research travel, training, and other relevant career-enhancing
 activities. For example, FINNERTY has used his PDA since 2014 to build a global network of
 Dickinson scholars and to establish a close working relationship with the Emily Dickinson
 Museum. FROST used his PDA to fulfil a request to speak at the City University New York’s
 Victorian Ecotime symposium, and to undertake archival research at the Pierpont Morgan
 Library (see UoA27RUSKIN). HADIKIN used his PDA to attend the British Association for
 Applied Linguistics (BAAL) meeting in 2015 to present his work on lexical selection in online
 science forums, which then led to his election to the BAAL Executive Committee. BOYCE used
 her PDA to travel to the INCS ‘Measure and Excess’ conference at Roma Tre University. Her
 paper was published as ‘Suffering, Asceticism and the Starving Male Body in Mary Barton’ in
 The Victorian Male Body, Parsons & Heholt (eds.), 2018.

 Thirdly, all staff are encouraged to apply for programmes that support aspiring leaders in
 research and higher education. Two members of the UoA have participated in Advance HE’s

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Aurora Programme, which supports women to develop their leadership potential, and one
 member has participated in the Navigator Programme, which supports men in fulfilling their
 potential through reflection (REF5a para. 35).

 2.1.3    Workload planning and sabbaticals

 Research-related activity is formally recognised through the dedicated allocation of time
 in staff workloads (Concordat Principles 1, 2, 4, 5) (REF5a paras. 2-3, 41). Such allocation is
 determined by the relevant Heads of School and Associate Heads for Research, following on
 from the agreed outcomes of each colleague’s annual PDR and taking account of current
 activities and future plans. Further to agreed policies, all staff are allocated research time
 appropriate to their level of performance and aspiration, with 20% of workload being the
 baseline. This percentage can increase to 30% where warranted by the colleague’s engagement
 with research.

 A University-wide sabbatical policy is in place, which supports staff to pursue research
 (REF5a para. 36). All members of academic staff with 3 years’ continuous service are eligible to
 apply. The sabbatical policy has benefitted a number of colleagues in this Unit: (2 men, 4
 women). SYKES’s sabbatical facilitated research visits, helping him to become a leading expert
 on the modern-day Philippines and led to his book, The Realm of the Punisher: Travels in
 Duterte’s Philippines. SARACENI utilised his sabbatical to complete his monograph, World
 Englishes: A Critical Analysis, which won the 2016 Book Prize of the British Association for
 Applied Linguistics. PAICE completed two journal articles: “Domestick Adam" versus
 "Adventrous Eve": arguments about gardening in Milton’s Eden (Milton Studies, 2021
 forthcoming), and ‘Divine Interpreter': translation as theme and event in Paradise Lost (Milton
 Quarterly, 2019). PRICE secured a contract with Manchester University Press for a book on
 Mary Chudleigh and her contemporaries. FORSTER co-edited two books, Women's Periodicals
 and Print Culture in Britain, 1940s-2000s: The Postwar and Contemporary Period (EUP, 2020),
 and Historicising the Women's Liberation Movement in the Western World: 1960-1999
 (Routledge, 2018).

 2.2     Staffing and recruitment policy

 In total, 29 (14 male, 15 female) colleagues are returned in this Unit, more than double the
 number returned in REF2014. Our staff base is relatively mature in career stage: all but one
 possess doctorates, and only two are ECRs. Two colleagues have declared a disability. Seven
 are non-UK citizens. On the census date all staff were on permanent contracts: 24 full-time and
 5 part-time.

 Robust procedures for recognising and rewarding achievement have ensured staff
 progression since REF2014. There have been 3 promotions to Reader (1 female, 2 male), 5
 promotions to Principal Lecturer (3 female, 2 male) and 8 promotions to Senior Lecturer (2
 female, 6 male) in this REF period. The staff profile now includes 1 Lecturer, 18 Senior
 Lecturers, 7 Principal Lecturers, and 3 Readers.

 The University’s move towards permanent Teaching and Research contracts to facilitate a
 solid foundation for its research culture has enabled the Unit to increase our permanent research


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 capacity and support the career development of previously part-time hourly-paid staff. FHSS and
 FCCI have continued to develop their structural commitment to the support of colleagues’
 research careers, which directly supports members in UoA27. Both Faculties contribute to the
 Researcher Development Programme (REF5a paras. 33-4), and sponsor colleagues wishing to
 take doctoral degrees, thus building the Unit’s capacity (Concordat Principles 1, 2, 4, 5).
 Additionally, in FHSS colleagues in the first two years of their post have particular protected
 eligibility for funding and support, and enhanced mentoring (Concordat Principles 2, 4, 5).

 2.3   Research students

 In our UoA, the number of PGR completions has risen from 2 during the REF2014 period to 12
 in the current cycle. There are currently 42 PGR students within the Unit and 15 applications to
 commence study in the next academic year. This success is a direct result of robust strategies
 for recruiting, training, and supporting doctoral students.

 Our strategy for the recruitment of doctoral students is two-pronged. First, full bursaries
 are offered at Faculty level. 5 out 12 PGRSs who completed in this cycle received full bursaries.
 Second, we actively encourage and support research projects that combine English Literature,
 English Language and Creative Writing through the formation of interdisciplinary supervisory
 teams from across the UoA. Four students are currently being supervised by interdisciplinary
 teams.

 All staff involved in the recruitment of PGRs are required to undertake our Graduate School’s
 training module ‘Best Practice in the Selection and Recruitment of PGR Students’ (REF5a para.
 38). This training is designed around local and national codes of practice, and ensures that
 selection and recruitment decisions are made on a transparent and equitable basis, and comply
 with the University’s Admissions and Equality and Diversity Policies (REF5a para. 43-49).

 Research students’ training needs are identified at Induction and their training schedule is
 revisited periodically at subsequent supervisory meetings and adjusted as the student’s needs
 change. Students access training through the Graduate School Development Programme
 (GSDP), which provides over 190 workshop events on more than 70 topics per year (REF5a
 para. 38). Full-time PGRs are required to undertake at least ten days of training per year (five
 days for part-time).

 PGRs are further supported by Graduate School procedures that monitor their progress
 throughout their studies to ensure successful completion. All PGRs complete Annual or Major
 Reviews to ensure satisfactory progress. In 2018-19, our Major Review progression rate was
 100% and our annual review progression rate was 93%. In the 2019 PRES, we achieved 91%
 satisfaction scores with progress and assessment mechanisms, with 94% of respondents
 agreeing with the statement: 'I understand the requirements and deadlines for formal monitoring
 of my progress'. Our thesis submission rate in 2018-19 was 85% (the highest in the university).

 The Unit enhances training and support for progression in a number of ways. Following
 Portsmouth’s signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the Université de Caen
 (Portsmouth’s twin city), in January 2020 we established our first International Doctoral
 Seminar Programme. Training events delivered include ‘Preparing to teach in an international


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 environment’ and ‘AI and Historical Texts: Advances in Digital Humanities’. Our students have
 attended the annual ‘Faculty Thesis Boot Camp’. Facilitated by the Director of the Academic
 Skills Unit, this intensive two-day writing retreat includes motivational talks, goal setting, and
 strategies and techniques for writing. Students within the Unit are also encouraged to take
 responsibility for their own development. Academic and presentation skills are developed via a
 monthly lunchtime seminar series organised by PGRs. Starting in 2019-20, the Faculty PGR
 Representatives organise monthly research-in-progress sessions. These informal meetings
 provide a forum to discuss research outside the supervisory framework with other research
 students from a variety of academic disciplines.

 PGRs are fully integrated within the research culture of UoA27. On registration, they
 become active members of one or more Research Clusters and are invited to participate in
 events. Both FCCI and FHSS run annual PGR conferences, which include professionalisation
 workshops and opportunities to engage with senior staff. PGRs are also encouraged to present
 their own work at conferences and workshops organised by the clusters. In the conference on
 language and decolonisation in Africa (see section 1.4), for example, four PhD students
 presented their research to an international audience. The Unit also supports students in
 developing research event organisation skills. Our PGRs have put their training into practice and
 organised 5 postgraduate conferences over this REF cycle:

       ‘The Poetics of Space in 20th and 21st century Culture’, 29 May 2014

       ‘Collectors and Collecting from the Early Modern Period to the Present’, 5 June 2015

       ‘All things Victorian: Exploring Materiality and the Material Object’, 19 March 2016

       ‘Post Truth: An Interdisciplinary Exploration’, 24 March 2018

       ‘Breaking Bounds’, 11 May 2019

 Mindful of support for postdoctoral progression, FHSS runs an annual careers workshop to help
 PGRs prepare for their postdoctoral future. In 2018-19, this focused on alternative careers,
 and featured external participants who have used their PhDs to achieve success outside Higher
 Education. In 2019-20, the workshops focused on academic careers, and speakers included
 ECRs who had secured postdoctoral funding and/or junior lectureships.

 The Unit also supports preparation for future research activity, through research assistantships,
 assistance to secure external placements, and invitations to contribute to innovation activities.
 For example, a PhD student in linguistics contributed to Panama Billingue, an 8-week English
 Languages and Pedagogy programme. A student supervised by PITTARD was supported to
 secure a research placement at the British Library on the ‘In the Spotlight: Playbills in Context’
 project. Another student supervised by PITTARD received training from Portsmouth City Council
 in curatorial techniques and organised the ‘Study in Sherlock’ exhibition at Portsmouth Museum
 and Art Gallery.

 The Unit’s support for PGRs continues after the completion of their doctoral programmes.
 They are guaranteed access to library/campus facilities for a further year as a means of helping
 their future research activities. Like all University of Portsmouth graduates, our PGRs also have

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 access to the support of the Careers and Employability Service up to 5 years after they
 graduate.

 2.4   Equality and diversity

 The UoA is committed to supporting all members by ensuring fair practices, systems and
 structures (REF5a paras. 43-52). Consistent with its wider strategic aims, it also supports and
 informs practice by undertaking research that aims directly to promote a better
 understanding of equality and diversity issues. For example, FORSTER’s work on women’s
 culture and feminism, RINGROW’s research on the representation of the female body in fashion
 and cosmetics advertising, BOWERS’s research on novels dealing with violence against Native
 North American women, and EVANS’s work on the translation of foreign LGBTQ media in China.
 In addition, SYKES and HADIKIN have been involved in the interdisciplinary project PONToon
 (Partnership Opportunities using New Technologies fostering sOcial and ecOnomic inclusioN),
 which works closely with charities, NGOs, businesses, government agencies and educational
 institutions to boost the knowledge, employability and self-esteem of disadvantaged women in
 Britain and France.

 Our staff submission is almost completely gender-balanced, tilting very slightly female (15F;
 14M); a reversal of the position in REF2014, when 6 women and 7 men were entered. All
 Schools from which UoA members originate are actively working on their Athena Swan Bronze
 Award applications (REF5a para. 44).

 Of the 29 staff in UoA27, 97% identify as White. The low proportion of BAME colleagues is
 indicative of the low numbers of BAME staff in the three disciplines nationally and the Unit’s
 relatively small size. We recognise the need to increase our efforts to diversify the Unit through
 recruitment policies that minimise unconscious bias and encourage diverse applications (REF5a
 paras. 29-31). We commit to at least reaching the sector average for BAME academic staff,
 currently 14.6%, over the next REF cycle (REF5a para. 45). Moreover, the Unit is committed to
 developing a pipeline to support BAME scholars. In this aim, we have achieved some
 success. 33% of PhD completions over the current cycle were by BAME students. Of these
 PGRs, one has taken up a post as Lecturer in English at Prince of Songkla University, Thailand.
 Another has taken up a post at Isra University in Jordan.

 Support for UoA members further evidences our commitment to equality and diversity. Allocation
 of sabbaticals is focused on academic staff’s professional development, including staff whose
 research activities have suffered because of illness or other prolonged absences. One colleague
 was granted a sabbatical after a series of illnesses over a long period of time, and was thus able
 to resume a research-active profile. Several initiatives focused on staff wellbeing have been
 implemented across the University. Ten UoA members are supported via the Flexible
 Working Policy (REF5a para. 46), which protects periods of the day for childcare and other
 such commitments.

 In putting together our REF portfolio, the University’s REF Code of Practice provided guidance
 and was adhered to. Equality and Diversity training has been undertaken by everyone
 involved in the REF decision-making process. 51% of outputs are attributed to male authors,



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 49% to female authors, and 9% to authors who declared a disability, which is commensurate
 with the submitted staff profile.


 3     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1   Income and strategies for external income generation

 One of the Unit’s objectives post-2014 was to increase external income. This was, and continues
 to be, an important part of our strategy to sustain and develop a lively research environment that
 leads to high-quality research and impact (REF5a para. 60). We have successfully increased our
 external research income from £35k in the REF2014 period to £52.5k. While modest, as can be
 seen below, the successes in securing funding in the past few years of the REF period
 indicate that the UoA is on an upward trajectory.

 Table 1: Unit income by year

                    13/14       14/15    15/16      16/17      17/18      18/19     19/20

        Income       £0          £0        £0      £3,152     £5,385    £14,303    £29,607


 The strategy underpinning income generation within the Unit has been to build capacity and
 increase bidding activity. To achieve this, colleagues are mentored and collaborations
 encouraged through our Research Centres and clusters. Mentorship has specifically supported
 scholars whose work has previously focused on public engagement to proactively engage in
 research bidding processes. For example, DEW was mentored by FINNERTY to target
 specialised funding bodies that aligned with his specific research areas. SARACENI mentored
 RINGROW in her funding application to Nuffield. BERBERICH mentored DEW and PITTARD in
 their Being Human applications. Both were awarded, PITTARD for ‘Lost and Found’, DEW for
 ‘Britain in Europe’.

 The Unit encourages targeting of smaller grants for projects in the first instance and embeds
 training to assist in the development of applications. For example, between 2015 and 2019,
 Research and Innovation Services (RIS) provided training sessions on ‘How to Search for and
 Submit Funding Bids’, ‘Small Grants Workshops’, and ‘Writing Research Funding Bids’. In total,
 14 members of the Unit attended these events. Colleagues also received bespoke support
 from RIS grant specialists and senior colleagues in targeted horizon-scanning for bids and
 fellowships, and support with the mechanics of bid-preparation (REF5a para. 56). As a result,
 SAKAMOTO and EVANS were both successful in securing their first smaller grants:
 SAKAMOTO, Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation (£1,349 in 2017 and £1,000 in 2019); EVANS,
 British Academy Newton Fund (£7,187 in 2016). EVANS built on this initial success by securing
 £42,909 from the AHRC (2018).

 SAKAMOTO’s success is a good example of another element of our strategy - applying to a
 more diverse range of funding bodies and targeting the most appropriate specialised
 funding schemes. Other successes include DEW’s receipt of £4,000 from Yale’s Lewis Walpole
 Fellowship in 2018 and £2,800 from the Jewish Historical Society of England in 2019. We have


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 also seen recent success with DAVIES’ collaboration with the University of Copenhagen that
 received £160,000 from the Carlsberg Foundation in 2020. Although falling outside of the
 REF2021 Environment window, this demonstrates that our strategy is delivering results.

 Our strategy to increase bidding activity has led to 32 bids by 17 different PIs in this REF
 cycle. Notably, UoA members have submitted applications to the Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Actions Innovative Training Network Scheme (BOWERS, 2018); AHRC Research Network
 Scheme (BOYCE, 2018); British Academy Writing Workshops Scheme (SARACENI, 2019); and
 5 British Academy Small Grants (DAVIES x 2, 2020; DEW, 2020; OAKLEY, 2019; PAICE, 2020).

 The UoA’s future income generation strategy will build on our successful increase in skills,
 capacity and networks. We will continue our programme of training and mentoring, amplify our
 successful policy of building capacity through pursuit of small grants, and encourage broader
 engagement with the university’s interdisciplinary environment to identify and target funding
 opportunities.

 3.2   Funding links to high-quality outputs and impact

 Our Research Centres place considerable emphasis on creating an environment conducive
 to the production of high-quality outputs. This includes the provision of training workshops
 and regular writing retreats. This strategy, combined with sabbatical support, where appropriate,
 has enabled the Unit to build a solid track record in this regard.

 To date, SAKAMOTO’s Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation awards have produced 5 journal
 articles, 1 book chapter and impact that has been captured in an ICS
 (UoA27MACHINETRANSLATION). DEW’s 2019 Jewish Historical Society of England
 Fellowship in August 2019 will lead to a fully open access digital edition of D’Blossiers Tovey’s
 Anglia Judaica. DEW’s Lewis Walpole Fellowship has led to a co-edited book (with BOWERS)
 about Polish Communities in Britain. EVANS’s AHRC project ‘Translating for Change’
 collaborated with the British Council to organise events in Beijing and Guangzhou, and with
 Shanghai Pride Film Festival. These events involved the dissemination of research findings and
 the forging of links that will lead to the development of impact in the future. DAVIES’
 collaboration with colleagues from the University of Copenhagen on the ‘Lockdown Reading’
 project has led to the production of research documents for the Duchess of Cornwall’s Instagram
 Reading Room campaign, and future outputs will include an online video archive, a co-authored
 monograph and a European Research Council funding bid.

 Internal funding has also led to high-quality outputs, particularly through our Strategic Projects
 fund. This fund was based on UKRI’s model of requiring research to produce outputs of
 international significance and with clear and demonstrable impact. Altogether, 8 internally-
 funded projects were undertaken: 4 individual projects (BERBERICH, PITTARD, BOWERS and
 ROUSSELOT) and 4 group projects (led by BERBERICH, BOYCE, DYSON and SAKAMOTO).
 Topics included literary depictions of the impossible (BOWERS), the history of science
 (ROUSSELOT), and Britain's role in Europe (BERBERICH). Through these internally-funded
 projects, colleagues in the Unit produced 25 outputs, 2 special issues; and 12 funding bids. In
 addition, there were two successful conferences, a public lecture, two reports for industry, and a



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 range of local engagement activities such as with the Polish community in Portsmouth, local
 schools, and creative artists.

 Members of the Unit have had access to other internal funds. SYKES received an Accelerator
 Grant and a Staff Development Fund Grant to carry out archival research in the Philippines, and
 was further supported by a University Sabbatical. Subsequently, he published extensively on
 Rodrigo Duterte in a range of outlets that maximise public dissemination, including Private Eye,
 The Telegraph, The London Magazine and Southeast Asia Globe. In 2018, his book The Realm
 of the Punisher: Travels in Duterte’s Philippines was published by Signal Books. HADIKIN
 received funding for the ‘Citizen Science’ project, which generated a Zooniverse corpus with 10
 million words of Citizen Science forum text. It is the world’s largest corpus of citizen science
 language. The project generated five conference papers and two book chapters including
 SARACENI, HADIKIN, WILLIAMS, and Clarke, ‘An army of willing volunteers’: analysing the
 language of online citizen engagement in the humanities, in The Routledge Handbook of English
 Language and Digital Humanities (2020).

 3.3   Infrastructure and facilities

 Income generation activity is supported at several levels across the university (REF5a paras. 56-
 9). The Unit’s bid writing and funding applications are supported by three Research Grants
 Officers and four Research Development Officers located in the University’s Research and
 Innovation Services (RIS) department. The University’s internal peer review college provides
 colleagues with invaluable feedback on bids and applications.

 There has also been significant institutional strategic investment in the UoA’s research. UoA
 research groups and the Faculty Librarian identified key resources and between 2014 and
 2020, the University Library invested more than £600,000 in significant archives and
 collections for this UoA. Highlights include the Archives of Sexuality and Gender: LGBTQ History
 and Culture since 1940 and Slavery and Anti-Slavery: A Transnational Archive, both of which
 are particularly valuable to our Body Politics, Culture, Community and Heritage and Discourse,
 Communication & Society research clusters. The Library has also subscribed to the Project
 Muse Humanities Collection for English Literature, which has proved an invaluable resource.
 The UoA also purchased permanent access to collections of Linguistics and Literature Oxford
 Handbooks Online. Strategic investment will continue to ensure support for this UoA’s research.

 We have also made a significant investment in Language labs, equipping them with
 Computer Assisted Translation (CAT) tools including memoQ, Trados Studio, and Memsource,
 and subtitling software Ooona. SAKAMOTO has used the CAT tools in funded research and an
 impact case study and EVANS has used Ooona to undertake research for the funded
 ‘Translating for Change’ project. In addition, HADIKIN, SARACENI, and WILLIAMS were able to
 use SketchEngine, a sophisticated online interface for corpus analysis, to gather the largest
 ‘Citizen Science’ corpus available.


 4     Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society




                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 English at Portsmouth takes a broad perspective on language and literature as means of
 communication that can reach across cultures, and across centuries. We emphasise the role of
 compelling narratives in conveying urgent political and ethical messages and advocate for the
 crucial importance of communication between and across languages, and the imperative need
 for national and transnational understanding of such issues at policy level. In all these
 endeavours, our research fulfils our mission as a civic university and is in keeping with
 Portsmouth’s strategic vision of supporting and influencing the economic, educational and
 cultural life of our city and beyond.

 4.1   Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 The UoA has well-established national and international collaborative networks in our priority
 areas. Membership of these strategic networks facilitates national and international
 research projects, conferences, and research outputs. Outputs co-authored with external
 collaborators include seven with UK partners and international collaborations with Free
 University Brussels (BOWERS), Goethe University Frankfurt (BOWERS), Tilburg University
 (HADIKIN), Kanto Gakuin University (CRABBE), and University of Gothenburg, (SARACENI).
 We also have a long-running collaboration with the University of Málaga, given shared expertise
 in Neo-Victorian literature. The UoA facilitates teaching and research exchanges between the
 institutions.

 We have an international Visiting Scholars scheme, which enables the UoA to welcome
 scholars from other institutions into a supportive environment. In this REF period, UoA members
 have hosted 42 visiting academics and 4 PhD students from institutions such as the University of
 Caen, Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, Yantai University, and Shanghai Maritime
 University. Outputs from these exchanges have included a project grant from Shandong Youth
 University of Political Science to look at links between systemic functional grammar and
 pedagogy, and a PhD proposal to compare patients’ views of bilingual health care providers with
 formal interpreters.

 4.2   Relationships with research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 The UoA’s outward-looking research culture explicitly seeks to address key issues facing
 society and helps to underpin Portsmouth’s civic ambition to enrich the local community
 and engage a diverse range of people across our city and further afield (REF5a para. 16).
 Supported by the Faculty’s ‘Celebrity, Citizenship and Status’ project, DAVIES and FINNERTY
 organised a conference on ‘Queer Celebrity’ (2019, 42 delegates), which examined the
 importance of role models within the trans* community. This event stimulated a wide range of
 debates, particularly on contemporary queer hate crime and ongoing transphobic discourses and
 practices. An edited volume following on from this event will be published in 2021. Following
 discussions with the local community on the impact of Brexit, in June 2017 BERBERICH co-
 organised an event on 'Britain in Europe / Europe in Britain' that attracted 35 researchers from
 across Europe, Africa and the USA and included a public event with novelist Linda Grant and a
 performance by the theatre company There There. This event provided a forum for members of
 the local community to share, explore and reflect upon a wide array of Brexit issues.
 BERBERICH will also engage with scholarly audiences through an edited collection under



                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 contract with Routledge: Brexit and the Migrant Voice: EU Citizens in post-Brexit Literature and
 Culture.

 The work of UoA members has been instrumental in applying local literary and cultural
 knowledge to enrich the lives of those in our city. Working in partnership with Visit
 Portsmouth, FROST and BOWERS have made the city’s rich and varied literary heritage
 accessible online for the first time, in the Portsmouth Literary Map. As part of the UoA’s work
 with local writers and readers, we help to organise and host ‘Bookfest’, an annual literature
 festival attracting diverse audiences. A range of UoA members have shared their academic
 expertise by offering workshops and talks, including SYKES who hosted ‘The Truth Can Be
 Dangerous: Telling the Stories of our Lives?’, which attracted an audience of more than 60. The
 creativity of Portsmouth is also celebrated through ‘Darkfest’, an annual festival exploring all
 things supernatural. The festival is led by the University in conjunction with various local creative
 communities, including the spoken word group T’Articulation, Havant and District Writers’ Circle,
 the Writers at Lovedean, and The Original Fareham Writers. To support this festival, HABENS
 and SYKES have worked with local writers and readers to hold immersive theatre, literary and
 creative writing events.

 The UoA has also worked with local partners to forge a network of local writers, which has
 helped build a collaborative, supportive community. The Star & Crescent project has helped
 upskill approximately 300 local writers and led to the creation of a toolkit that is deployed to other
 cities. Participants have commented: ‘We are blessed to have the S&C because there are so
 few places where there still is a free press!’, and view the publication to be ‘helping local
 journalists to get experience…It’s a place to draw attention to issues of local and national
 importance’. This project has also led to the development of a Community Interest Company
 (CIC), Star & Crescent Community Media, which brings together writers and UoA members to
 provide advice/consultancy on writing projects and to produce collaborative funding bids, such
 as to the Arts Council, seeking support for a physical centre and base to co-ordinate literary and
 cultural activities in the city.

 FORSTER ran a number of events engaging the local community as part of a successful
 Heritage Lottery Funding bid on ‘Women’s Community Activism in Portsmouth since 1960’. This
 included 20 volunteers receiving oral history training that they used to conduct interviews with 60
 older women, including community activists and advocates for marginalised groups. The
 interview data was developed into a range of resources, including community events and a
 “teachers’ pack” for local schools. Women involved in this project were empowered to retell the
 stories of their youth and share them with others across Portsmouth, creating a new narrative
 of women’s activism in a city often dominated by its masculine naval industry. An ICS
 (UoA27FEMINISM) has been developed from this work.

 4.3   Engagement with diverse audiences and publics

 UoA members engage with diverse audiences nationally and internationally. FORSTER
 sought engagement with the local BAME community in her projects by working with the
 Portsmouth African Women’s Forum to include the narratives of Chinese, Bangladeshi and
 African women, ensuring a diversity of voices were heard in reshaping Portsmouth's history. As
 part of the Strategic Project 'Britain in Europe/Europe in Britain’ (Sept 2016-July 2019), DEW

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and BOWERS developed a number of events with the local Polish community. They organised a
 free public reading by two of Britain’s leading Anglo-Polish writers and a research symposium
 (July 2019); ran a school engagement project (BOWERS); and produced a dual-language
 (Polish/English) publication aimed at a general readership on the topic of the Polish presence in
 Great Britain from the eighteenth century to the present (DEW). Further plans include an
 exhibition on the origins of the Polish Community at The D-Day Story museum in 2021, which
 will incorporate children’s responses to the booklet. Additionally, DEW has been approached by
 producers of the Channel 4 programme Britain’s Most Historic Towns to develop and present a
 section on the history of Portsmouth’s Polish Community.

 The UoA’s emphasis on enriching the local community can further be seen in BERBERICH’s
 work on the legacy of the Holocaust in the present. BERBERICH has collaborated with Mayville
 High School since 2016, offering yearly workshops on cultural representations of the Holocaust
 to Year 10 History students. The students now produce a piece of creative work as part of their
 Holocaust homework project. The work produced by the pupils as part of this project was
 exhibited, alongside UoP student work, at The D-Day Story museum in January 2018 for
 Holocaust Memorial Day. For Holocaust Memorial Day 2020, students from the University’s
 partner institution, the University of Caen, also participated in the event. This will become an
 annual event in collaboration with The D-Day Story museum, and BERBERICH is planning to
 expand this to other local schools. Not only is this work important for enriching local
 community relations and adding to local children’s historical and cultural awareness;
 increased knowledge around the Holocaust is ever-relevant in a world in which anti-
 Semitism continues to rise.

 The Unit also draws upon, and seeks to influence, the experiences and knowledge of wide and
 diverse audiences. As part of the 'Lockdown Reading' project, DAVIES and colleagues produced
 research to support the Duchess of Cornwall's Reading Room Instagram campaign. The
 Reading Room digital team was able to post information about featured authors and novels to an
 audience of 95k followers.

 4.4   Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 UoA members make significant contributions to the sustainability of the discipline at both
 national and local levels. Through their Professional Development Allowances (PDA),
 members are supported to participate in disciplinary groups and networks, including the British
 Association for Contemporary Literary Studies (BACLS), the British Association for Victorian
 Studies (BAVS), the British Association for Applied Linguistics (BAAL), the Poetics and
 Linguistics Association (PALA), the Emily Dickinson International Society, and the South Coast
 Eighteenth-Century and Romantic Research Group. Moreover, in order to shape disciplinary
 research agendas, UoA members hold a number of posts on national committees, including the
 British Association for Contemporary Literary Studies (DAVIES), the British Association for
 Victorian Studies (BOYCE), and the British Association for Applied Linguistics (HADIKIN). In
 addition, DAVIES was BACLS postgraduate essay prize coordinator, and BOYCE is on the
 panel of judges for the BAVS inaugural book prize.

 Members also help sustain the discipline by responding to and shaping national and
 international policies. DAVIES’ role on the Executive Committee of University English (initially

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 as ECR Representative [2014-19] and now as Secretary [2019-present]) enables him to
 contribute directly to the sustainability of the discipline He worked on UE’s consultation response
 to the Higher Education and Research Bill 2016, as well as UE’s REF Consultation response. At
 a national level, this committee work aims to sustain research funding commitments and
 opportunities for the English disciplines. At an international level, RODRÍGUEZ DE CÉSPEDES
 was invited to contribute to the creation of the European Framework of Translation competences
 in 2017. The framework has subsequently been adopted by 84 universities inside and outside
 the EU.

 4.5   Wider influence, contribution to and recognition by the research base

 UoA members are recognised nationally and internationally for their contributions to the
 research base and for their wider influence within the research community. UoA members
 have contributed to the research base through editorial positions. For instance, EVANS is on the
 Editorial Board of The Journal of Internationalization and Localization; JANICKER is on the
 Board of The Journal of Popular Culture; PITTARD for Victorian Popular Fictions; and
 RINGROW for Critical Approaches to Discourse Analysis Across Disciplines. FINNERTY is an
 advisor for the Shakespeare Criticism book series, and FORSTER is an Editorial Reader for The
 London Magazine.

 Moreover, UoA members have been invited to be Guest Editors for several peer-reviewed
 journals, including: Cogent Arts & Humanities; MELUS; Wasafari; The Journal of Postcolonial
 Writing (BOWERS); Tinakori: Critical Journal of the Katherine Mansfield Society; Adaptation
 (BOYCE); Comparative American Studies: An International Journal (FINNERTY); Gramarye
 (O’BRIEN); Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies (PAICE); Early Modern Literary Studies
 (PRICE); TranscUlturAl (RINGROW and EVANS); The Interpreter and Translator Trainer
 (RODRIGUEZ); Humanities; Victoriographies (ROUSSELOT); World Englishes (SARACENI);
 and Modern Language Review (WARREN).

 As part of the UoA's commitment to the health of the discipline, members undertake peer-
 review and refereeing work for leading journal and book publications. They also serve as
 referees for funding applications. For instance, BOYCE and HADIKIN both regularly review
 funding proposals as part of their Executive Committee work (British Association for Victorian
 Studies; British Association for Applied Linguistics). BERBERICH has acted as an Assessor for
 funding bids with DFG (Deutsche Forschungs Gemeinde) and with the National Science Centre,
 Poland. In 2020, FINNERTY became a member of the AHRC Peer Review College.

 Over this REF cycle, UoA members have disseminated their work to international
 audiences. Members have been invited to give over 30 Keynote Lectures and 30 invited talks,
 indicating their wider influence within their research communities. These include RINGROW,
 ‘Girls are not Objects to be Consumed’, at Sheffield Hallam University and SYKES, ‘Duterte’s
 Drug War’, at the Global Alliance for a Humane Democratic Society. Recognition of the UoA’s
 standing and contribution is also evidenced by the award of international prizes and fellowships.
 In 2017, BERBERICH was awarded a Distinguished Scientist Prize by the Venus International
 Foundation, and SARACENI won the 2016 British Association for Applied Linguistics Book Prize.
 In terms of international Fellowships, DEW received a Lewis Walpole Library Fellowship from the
 University of Yale, and FINNERTY received a Short-Term Visiting Fellowship from The Ministry

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 of Science and Technology in Taiwan in 2017, and a Visiting Professorship at Paris Diderot
 University in 2016. O’BRIEN is a Visiting Fellow of Writing at University College Chichester, a
 Peace Ambassador for Iraq, and an advisor to the Institute of Human Dignity in the Vatican.




                                                                                            Page 19
