Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Lancaster University

 Unit of Assessment: 31: Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context
Politics, Philosophy and Religion (PPR) is an interdisciplinary department producing world-leading
work on religion and belief in their political, social, and ethical contexts.
Formed in 2010, PPR unites academics across Religious Studies, Philosophy, Politics, and
International Relations. Located in Lancaster’s Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS), PPR’s
research community consists of 13 Professors (2 Distinguished), 17 Senior Lecturers, 15
Lecturers, 8 postdoctoral researchers, and 81 FTE research postgraduates. From August 2013-
July 2020, staff in the UOA received 55 external research grants with a total research income
exceeding £3.9m; produced over 350 peer reviewed journal articles, over 220 book chapters, 16
special journal issues, 7 handbooks, and 39 monographs; and supervised 57 PhDs to completion.
PPR provides leadership for Lancaster’s Institute for Social Futures and China Centre, and houses
the Richardson Institute for Peace Studies and such large externally funded projects as CREST
(Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats) and Reproductive Donation. Through
these projects, initiatives such as the Faith Debates, and media engagement providing over 25% of
Lancaster’s total broadcast media output, PPR has completely integrated its research and impact.

Achievement of strategic aims for research during the assessment period
PPR’s objective in REF 2014 was to strengthen our leading position in the study of religion, belief,
and values in the social-political world. We therefore aimed to: (1) make appointments strategically,
in interdisciplinary areas, to expand our coverage of world religions, regions, and ethical issues; (2)
strengthen the vitality and interdisciplinarity of our research culture, including by restructuring our
seminar programme and introducing a departmental research newsletter and graduate forum; (3)
further integrate Early Career Researchers (ECRs) into the research culture; (4) build on our
already strong funding record; (5) engage in new postgraduate initiatives and expand distance-
learning postgraduate taught (PGT) and postgraduate research (PGR) provision; (6) integrate our
research and impact activities more deeply.

We have achieved all these aims, as follows:

(1) Appointments
We made 10 new permanent staff appointments (1 Professor, 9 Lecturers) in strategically chosen
areas where religion and belief intersect with politics – e.g., appointments in China studies, the
Middle East, religious radicalisation, and religion and international relations. This constitutes an
18% expansion in staff numbers since January 2014, reflecting Lancaster University’s support for
PPR’s interdisciplinary agenda. We have maintained a strong research base with 91% of our total
staff on research or teaching-and-research contracts, against a sector average of 80% in our
component disciplines.

(2) Seminar programme and research culture
The department’s Research Committee has become a Research and Development Committee
(RDC), chaired by the Director of Research, Lacy. The RDC cultivates vitality by facilitating cross-
disciplinary research, disseminating funding and research information and opportunities,
supporting research grant applications, and adjudicating on, e.g., proposals for projects, centres,
and academic visitors. It administers PPR’s Research & Development Fund (RDF), allocated
competitively to support departmental research activities. PPR’s REF Oversight Committee is
separate, enabling the RDC to focus on the research culture. One RDC member runs weekly
research seminars, representing all our disciplines, with further interdisciplinary slots and
roundtables. Termly research newsletters, weekly graduate work-in-progress sessions, and many
conferences and events, detailed in Sec. 3, demonstrate our vitality.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

(3) Integration of early career researchers (ECRs) and research associates (RAs)
15 Research Associates (RAs) have been employed in PPR since 2014. To embed RAs into our
research culture, the RDC has been expanded to 11 members, including 2 ECRs and spanning
staff across career stages, and an RA committee has been formed, with one member now also
serving as ECR representative on the department’s Management Committee. On other new
mechanisms for supporting RAs and ECRs, see Sec. 2.

(4) Supporting grant applications
The RDC not only allocates pump-priming funds (through the RDF) but also supports staff to
identify funding streams and develop grant applications. Since 2019, all grant applications are
reviewed by two RDC members, who provide mentoring and guidance.

(5) Postgraduate initiatives are detailed in Sec. 2.

(6) Details of integration of research and impact are below.

Two additional strategic aims were identified during the period:

(7) Open research
PPR subscribes to Research England’s policy of making academic research available
electronically – immediately, free of charge and from most copyright restrictions – by depositing all
journal articles and most other outputs in Lancaster’s institutional open access repository within 3
months of acceptance. The proportion of our research that is open access has increased from 25%
to 60% since 2014, not including work in private commercial repositories – Academia,
ResearchGate, etc. – which all staff use.

(8) Ethical research
PPR has strengthened its systems to approve, monitor, and sustain ethical research. (a) We follow
the ethical standards in Lancaster University’s Code of Practice and those of research councils and
subject-specific professional organisations. (b) Two staff from the UOA (Follis and Kawanami)
serve on FASS Research Ethics Committee, Follis as deputy chair, while Wilkinson also chairs the
University Research Ethics Committee. (c) The RDC guides colleagues through ethical aspects of
research applications, with (d) PGRs mentored in research ethics through the supervisory process.

For further evidence of the achievement of our strategic aims:
                                     REF 2014               REF 2021         Percentage increase
 Staff numbers                        39 FTE                 46 FTE                  18%
 Grant income                           3.2m                   3.9m                  22%
 Journal articles                        239                    350                  46%
 Conferences organised                    41                     68                  65%
 PhD completions                          42                     57                  36%
 Percentage of our                      21.7                     64                 195%
 publications in the top 10%
 most cited (field-weighted)
 (source: SciVal)

Achievement of strategic aims for impact during the assessment period
In REF 2014 our stated strategic objectives for impact were: to further integrate impact into our
research agenda of exploring the socio-political dimensions of religion and belief; to continue to
cultivate new kinds of relationship with user communities and innovative forms of public exchange;
to build research activities around these exchanges; and to consolidate staffing, funding, and
support mechanisms to support these activities. We have accomplished these aims as follows:




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Consolidating department-level mechanisms to support impact:
(a) Staffing and career development. Impact is built into mentoring, training, and reward structures,
i.e., annual personal development reviews and promotions; engagement has its own category
within the Department’s workload model; some appointments are made with a view to impact, such
as Charles Clarke’s Visiting Professorship and that of former diplomat Coombs.
(b) Organisationally, the department has both an Impact lead (Wilkinson) and a Director of
Engagement (M. Johnson) who leads an Engagement Committee and is influential in developing
Faculty- and University-level approaches to engagement.
(c) Funding for impact activities. This comes chiefly from the RDF, with further support from
interdisciplinary structures and projects in PPR – e.g., CREST, the Richardson Institute, Security
Lancaster, and Reproductive Donation.

Through these support structures, which are embedded in the University’s and Faculty’s broader
impact systems (noted in Sec. 3 under ‘Infrastructure’), staff have built deepened relationships with
beneficiaries into their research activities. The resulting relationships include:
       long- or shorter-term consultant and advisory roles in user agencies: e.g., Aldoughli’s
           reports on sexual violence in Syria for Chatham House and the Institute of Foreign
           Policy;
       community work: e.g., Naguib is Trustee of the Muslim Women’s Council, Bradford, and
           chairs the Muslim Women’s Managed Mosque Initiative;
       participation in and co-organisation of user conferences and workshops: e.g., Marsden’s
           Home Office-funded Disengagement and Desistance events (2017-19);
       organising public engagement events: e.g., the Richardson Institute’s Amnesty
           International Roundtable (2015) and Annual Peace Lectures;
       dissemination activities totalling several hundred interviews with high-profile outlets such
           as the Guardian, Al-Jazeera, BBC News.

Through these relationships, we are having beneficial impacts in such areas as public policy,
including policy on religion in schools, counter-terrorism, and healthcare; public debate, including
around religion; and educational practice, including religious studies teaching. Our beneficiaries
include parliamentarians and faith bodies, security and medical practitioners, and religious studies
teachers. For examples, see: Structure of the Unit; Case Studies; and Sec. 4.

Future strategic aims for research and impact
In tune with Lancaster University’s 2020 Institutional Strategy and Priorities, and following a 2019
departmental strategic review, our goal is to continue building our world-leading excellence in
researching the socio-political dimensions of religion. To achieve this we will:

1. Continue to deepen our interdisciplinarity and the connections amongst our four areas of
research, partly by identifying unifying themes – Values and Conflict are under discussion – to
unify research, facilitate grant bids, and increase grant capture. We will develop further the
conversations between Eastern and Western intellectual traditions, tying in with department-wide
discussions of decolonisation and anti-racism. Security and peace will remain another ongoing
focus.

2. Develop PDRs (personal development reviews) to provide in-depth research mentoring, and
introduce annual individual research reviews.

3. Continue to furnish a supportive and vibrant environment for staff and PhD students, while
recruiting PGRs more strategically in line with research priorities. Inter alia, we will renew our
digital strategy to draw together staff members’ blog and media activity and to extend the reach of
our seminar programme. Departmental book launches, and professorial lectures, will become
annual.

4. Maintain a vibrant staff base by retaining, developing, and appointing world-leading researchers
(with two new Politics appointments already made in late 2020).

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

5. Sustain our strong record in impact and engagement, especially in religious education and
policy, health, security, and issues of public and political concern. High-impact activities will
continue to be identified early, given consistent support, and built into our research agenda.

6. Continue to address equality and diversity, by implementing our 5-year Athena SWAN action
plan, diversifying and decolonising the syllabus, addressing women’s concentration in relatively
junior roles, and tackling racial and ethnic inequalities with targets regarding promotion, grant
applications, and workload.

Structure of the unit
PPR’s achievements in research and impact are borne out by developments in its four
interdisciplinary areas of research. All four unite staff across our several disciplines, reflecting our
commitment to studying religion, beliefs, and values together and in their social-political contexts.

Area 1. Religion, values and global society
We study the dynamics of religious change and secularisation, new religions and alternative
spiritualities, extending into contemporary forms of meaning, value, and belief (Dawson, Knott,
Partridge, Woodhead). Contributing projects include: The Faith Debates, which bring research on
religion and belief into public conversation; ‘Iconic Religion: How Imaginaries of Religious
Encounter Structure Urban Space’; and ‘iGen: What Matters to Millennials’, co-directed from
Stanford, on the beliefs, values, and identities of young millennials. Another branch of research in
this area concerns religion, meaning, and value in popular culture and music (Partridge, Stone).
     A further strand concerns religion and society in south and south-east Asia (Black,
Jeremiah, Kawanami, Mukherjee, Ram-Prasad). Contributing projects include: ‘Communal Rules
and Civil Jurisdiction of Non-Ordained Female Renunciants in the Southern Buddhist Tradition’;
and ‘In Dialogue with the Mahabharata’. This strand connects with our work on social and
ideological developments in modern and modernising contexts, including Russia, India, and
China, where contributing activities include: ‘UK/BRIC: Religious Diversity in Modern and
Modernising Contexts’ and studies of China in the world (Chubb, Hird, Nordin, Zeng), informed by
considerations of global political economy (May).
      The Institute for Social Futures (ISF) and Lancaster University China Centre (LUCC) feed into
this area:
      ISF, co-directed by Woodhead, brings together arts, humanities, and social sciences with
         developments in technology and material science, yielding interdisciplinary future-thinking
         in which the human is as central as the technological. Together with the Materials Science
         Institute, ISF won a £1.5m Leverhulme DTC on ‘Material Social Futures’ (2019). Its average
         annual grant income is £471k; it involves 32 academics and 27 non-academic partners,
         mainly from the voluntary and public sector. Through Woodhead, Nordin, and others, PPR
         has shaped ISF’s research agenda and provided core academic direction.
      LUCC, directed by Nordin until 2019, tackles global challenges and enhances mutual
         understanding through multi-disciplinary China expertise. With Nordin’s leadership, Chubb
         and Hird on the directorate, and Mukherjee and Zeng amongst LUCC’s expert fellows, PPR
         is heavily involved in LUCC, helping it to generate c.£1m of research income in its first year.

In connection with this area of our research, our strategic approach to impact is to: build
relationships with beneficiaries (e.g., the World Economic Forum Global Advisory Council on Faith,
Theos, Modern Church); undertake media engagement; and initiate research-led public debate
using innovative forms of public exchange, pioneered by the Westminster Faith Debates. The
resulting impacts are in:

(I) Improving religious education
Our case study on Woodhead and Clarke’s 2015 and 2018 reports ‘A New Settlement: Religion
and Belief in Schools’, which have created public consensus about the need to change religion
teaching in schools, exemplifies a key part of our approach to impact, namely initiating research-
led public and policy debate.

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(II) Enhancing public understanding of and debate about religion
Again exemplifying part of our impact strategy, i.e., our pro-active approach to media and public
engagement, PPR staff have provided over 25% of Lancaster University’s total broadcast media
output over the census period. Through 489 television and 205 radio interviews from 2015-2019,
our research is reframing public debates on religion and politics. PPR members have featured in
prominent outlets, including BBC Radio 4’s Today, Thinking Allowed, Start the Week; BBC2’s
Newsnight; and the Economist, Guardian, Times, Telegraph, New Statesman, Washington Post, Al
Jazeera, Tablet, Conversation, and Radicalisation Research.org. Our estimated total reach is
190m (‘A New Settlement’ alone reached c. 11m).

Area 2. Politics, religion and security
This area has expanded significantly since 2013 through new research centres, collaborations, and
appointments (of Aldoughli, Chubb, Consterdine, R. Johnson, Maass, Marsden, Zeng).
     Individual and collaborative research topics are on religion, radicalisation, and global
conflicts, violence, and security threats (Aldoughli, Follis, Germond, Knott, Lacy, Mabon,
Marsden, Mukherjee). The Middle East and Arab world are one focus (Aldoughli, Mabon, Marsden,
Naguib); others work on political and religious violence more broadly (Lacy, Misra) and in other
regions such as China and Russia (e.g., Chubb, Maass, Zeng). Contributing projects include:
‘SEPAD: Sectarianism, Proxies and De-Sectarianisation’, addressing sectarian difference and
conflicts in the Middle East and beyond; and CREST (Centre for Research and Evidence on
Security Threats) – a £11.8m national hub for understanding, countering, and mitigating security
threats, co-directed by Knott until 2020.
     Additional contributions to our religion and security research come from:
     Security Lancaster, co-housed between PPR and other departments, a £2.79m cross-
        disciplinary ESPRC-funded institute in Security and Protection Science. It involves 47
        academic staff from across 4 faculties, including Lacy as associate director, and houses a
        twice-renewed EPSRC-NCSC Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research;
     The Richardson Institute, the UK’s oldest peace and conflict research centre, housed in
        PPR and directed by Mabon.
     Complementing all the above is further research on religion and politics: of race (Jeremiah,
R. Johnson); counterculture and protest (Partridge); in the EU (Steven); and, more broadly,
values, ideologies, and politics – e.g., conservatism (Garnett); the influence of ideas on policy
(Bishop, Consterdine); alternative development models (Hearn).

In this area, our strategic approach to impact is to partner with and advise security and intelligence
agencies, embedding these partnerships into projects through their entire life-cycles. As a result,
we are having impact in:

(I) Fostering peace processes and conflict resolution, and mitigating security threats
Reflecting our approach to impact through external partnerships, Security Lancaster, the
Richardson Institute, and CREST have partnered with agencies such as UKIC, FBI, and the Home
Office to inform counter-terrorism policy and practice at the highest government levels. Our case
study on CREST’s counter-terrorism work exemplifies this aspect of our approach to impact.

(II) Improving understanding and treatment of religion and religious groups amongst government
and public officials and agencies
Examples of our approach of undertaking advisory and consultative work are: the AHRC/ESRC
‘Re/Presenting Islam on Campus’ project (Lancaster CI Naguib), whose advice informed the 2019
court ruling against the government’s Prevent strategy; Woodhead’s advisory work with Theos and
on Horizon Scanning exercises with the MoD and DfID Porton Down.

Area 3. Global philosophy and religion
PPR brings together comparative and Western philosophy, providing broader, more inclusive
philosophical coverage than most UK philosophy units. Research here encompasses comparative
philosophy, particularly crossing the European, Indian, and Islamic traditions (Black, Naguib,
Ram-Prasad), where contributing activities have included a Spalding Symposium on Indian

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Religions (2019), Black’s co-edited book Dialogue in Early South Asian Religions, and Ram-
Prasad’s monograph Human Being, Bodily Being; and European philosophical and religious
traditions (Stone, Hemming, Hyman, Macleod), under which heading Stone held a Leverhulme
Major Research Fellowship on Birth and Philosophy, Black and Hyman co-edited Confronting
Secularism, Hemming co-translated Jünger’s classic essay The Worker, and Macleod co-edited A
Companion to Mill. Within contemporary Anglo-American philosophy Garvey works on
evolutionary theory, Todd aesthetics, and Unwin metaphysics. Linking these strands is a growing
focus on the diversification of philosophy, with, e.g., Stone co-editing the Routledge Companion
to Feminist Philosophy, public lectures by Ram-Prasad and packed departmental roundtables on
decolonisation.

In this area, our strategic approach to impact is to provide publicly accessible resources and
activities, including by partnering with schools to provide a comprehensive programme of religious
education resources, supported departmentally with staff time and funding (e.g., £23k for Black’s
schools programme) alongside organisational and technical assistance. The resulting impacts are
in:

(I) Improving religious education
Our case study on Black’s schools work supporting GCSE and A-level teaching of Eastern
religions exemplifies this part of our approach to impact. Our broader set of open learning
resources includes: ‘China in a Box’; New Political Minds resources; A-Level teaching resources in
Eastern religions, life after death, and women in Hinduism and Buddhism; and two MOOCs with
external partners in Quaker Studies and Hindu-Christian Relations.

(II) Enriching the public conversation in philosophy
Also illustrating our publicly-oriented approach, PPR hosts a branch of the Royal Institute of
Philosophy which runs events for the public including, since 2013, 8 talks, 6 workshops, and now
free introductory philosophy courses. From 2017, the branch’s funding was doubled, recognising
its effectiveness at engaging the public. Staff in this area regularly contribute to high-profile public
debates, e.g., Ram-Prasad and Stone at the Hay-on-Wye WheretheLightGetsIn Philosophy
festival.

Area 4. Contemporary ethical debates
This area of PPR’s research has grown considerably since 2013 through new funded projects,
detailed below, and appointments – Fellowes, M. Johnson, and N. Williams, plus 8 post-doctoral
research associates. We anticipate increasing involvement of this group of researchers with
Lancaster’s Health Innovation Campus, established in 2020, to which social and policy dimensions
will be central.
      This research area encompasses bioethics and medical law (Appleby, Cavaliere, Manson,
Wilkinson, G. Williams, N. Williams). This includes the £600k Wellcome project ‘Reproductive
Donation: Donation and Transfer of Human Reproductive Materials’ (PI Wilkinson), covering
ethical issues around in vitro gametogenesis, mitochondrial replacement, ectogenesis, and uterus
transplants. Another focus of activity surrounds the Society for Applied Philosophy, in which
Manson and G. Williams have played steering roles since 2013, shaping the conversation in
applied ethics.
      Our related work on health, well-being, and policy (Clark, Consterdine, Cooper, Fellowes,
Geyer, Manson, G. Williams) includes ‘I.Family - Determinants of eating behaviour in European
children, adolescents and their parents’, which involved 17 partners from 12 European countries,
and ‘Military Lives and Transformative Experiences: Exploring Narratives and Aged Veterans’ Well-
Being’. Another overlapping strand considers equality and inequality, under such parameters as
class (M. Johnson), race and caste (Jeremiah, R. Johnson), and gender (Cavaliere, Kawanami,
Misra, Naguib, Ram-Prasad, Stone).

In regard to this area our strategic approach to impact is to establish and build collaborations with
relevant partners and providers (e.g., the Nuffield Council on Bioethics, Medical Research Council,



                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Labour Party), including co-organising conferences and other events. The resulting impacts
include:

(I) Improving health care and medical provision
Exemplifying our approach of collaborating with policy-makers and practitioners, our case study on
the Reproductive Donation group shows how, through consultancy (e.g., for Womb Transplant UK)
and direct engagement with clinicians and medical teams and their umbrella organisations (e.g.,
the British Transplantation Society), these researchers beneficially influenced policy, discussion,
and clinical practice in reproductive medicine.

(II) Improving public services and well-being
Another example of our collaborative approach – in this case with the Labour Party – is M.
Johnson’s work co-writing research-led op-eds and reports, e.g., the Labour Party report The
Health Case for Universal Basic Income (2019), informing the Party’s Manifesto commitment to
trial UBI. Additionally, M. Johnson’s research provided content for the VOTE NHS 2017 General
Election video, viewed 3 million times.


 2. People


Staffing strategy and staff development
PPR’s staffing strategy is (1) to sustain our interdisciplinary research culture through strategically
focussed appointments in relevant fields, as noted earlier, with 10 permanent such appointments in
the period (including 1 Professor), plus 15 RAs; (2) to advance staff career progression and
development using mentoring, probation, appraisal, training, and research time.
     The success of this twofold strategy is shown by 17 PPR staff promotions since 2013,
including 4 to Professor (Cooper, Dawson, Mabon, Nordin) – making PPR’s professoriate 46%
female – and 2 to Distinguished Professor (Ram-Prasad, Woodhead); and our increases in staff
numbers, grant income, publication, citation rates, and conferences organised, as Sec. 1
documented.

All staff have annual Performance Development Reviews (PDRs) with senior colleagues; these are
central to our staff development strategy. PDRs provide individual advice on career trajectories,
publication, and grant applications; assess research plans and training needs; discuss flexible
working requirements; and review performance against individuals’ self-defined objectives. 79% of
our staff find PDRs either moderately or extremely helpful (according to a survey for Athena
SWAN). Staff are encouraged to seek further wellbeing support through Lancaster’s Employee
Assistance Programme, Staff Wellbeing platform and Five Ways to Wellbeing framework and,
departmentally, through the Head of Department and Director of EDI (Equality, Diversity, and
Inclusion).

On appointment, Early Career Researchers (ECRs) receive a senior mentor, with career planning
and review meetings to ensure completion of 3-year probation. Probationary goals are set for each
individual with meetings at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months. ECRs receive appropriate training (often
gaining a Certificate of Academic Practice, i.e., a lecturing qualification) and are mentored by
senior staff to prepare at least one grant application during probation.
    In addition, ECRs (i) receive preferential allocation of University, Faculty, and departmental
research funds – e.g., the RDF (Research & Development Fund) has funded research visits to the
Mill archive in Oxford for Macleod and to the anti-fascist archives in Northampton for Marsden
(both then ECRs) and enabled Black (then an ECR) to present papers in Delhi, since published.
ECRs are (ii) prioritised for FASS conference travel funds and FASS Research Fund and (iii)
integrated into PPR’s research culture: for example, Aldoughli and R. Johnson have been on the
RDC (Research and Development Committee); Maass is ECR representative on the PPR
Management Committee; N. Williams is a core member of the Reproductive Donation research
group.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Post-doctoral researchers (RAs) have PDRs and mentors, and receive advice from their PIs. RAs
make key contributions to our research culture by: co-organising events, e.g., the conference
‘Does Philosophy of Psychiatry need Metaphysics?’; publishing with permanent staff, e.g., co-
editing Regulating Reproductive Donation (CUP, 2016); performing significant roles in funded
projects, e.g., as CREST’s Communications Director. One RA received the 2015 Karl Jaspers
prize for the best philosophy of psychiatry article; three progressed to Leverhulme ECR
Fellowships; another reported on the far right to the government’s Commission for Countering
Extremism.

In these several ways – including bringing ECRs into PPR’s Management Committee and RDC,
forming a dedicated RA committee to identify issues specific to RAs, and building RAs into our
research culture – the UOA is implementing the revised Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers, reflecting Lancaster’s HR Excellence in Research award (2011,
2013, 2016).

Promotion applications are reviewed by the department’s Promotions Committee which operates
supportively, providing one-to-one guidance and mentoring, and assisting in interpreting promotion
criteria with respect to disciplinary profiles. Regular University events that address promotion and
career development are detailed in Lancaster’s institutional environment statement.

Our RDC works supportively with all staff to develop grant applications, as noted in Sec. 1. 81% of
staff feel supported in applying for grants, with no gender difference (source: Athena SWAN).

All staff receive research time as follows: (i) PPR’s workload model ensures 30% minimum
research time for all staff on standard teaching-and-research contracts, enhanced for ECRs, who
receive a 20% teaching and administration reduction in year 1 and 10% in year 2. (ii) All staff teach
in their specialisations at third-year level and above. (iii) Staff may apply to take one term in eight
sabbatical leave; in total staff have taken 341 months of sabbatical leave in the period. (iv) Impact
activities are rewarded with proportionate relief from other commitments. (v) All staff have annual
£1k personal research accounts. (vi) On further departmental, faculty, and university research
funds, see Sec. 3 on infrastructure.

As documented in Sec. 1, impact and staff development are aligned, with impact built into PPR’s
mentoring, training, and workload structures; targeted investment in posts that produce impact,
e.g., those of Clarke and Coombs; leadership roles and structures for impact amongst academic
staff; and support for staff impact activities, in terms of time and financial and administrative
support.

Equality and diversity
PPR’s commitment to EDI (Equality, Diversity and Inclusion), reflected in our curricula, research
agendas, and departmental culture, is recognised by an Athena SWAN Bronze award (2019).

Gender of PPR academic staff:

           Percentage of female staff in PPR compared to
                    HESA subject benchmarks
 60
 40
 20
  0
        Religious Studies         Philosophy       Politics

                            PPR   HESA benchmark




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Gender and staff seniority in PPR:

 80%        75%                       73%
 70%
 60%                53%                          54%
                       47%                                     50%50%
                                                    46%
 50%
 40%
        25%                             27%
 30%
 20%
 10%
  0%
        Research    Lecturer       Senior        Professor   Distinguished
        Associate                 Lecturer                     Professor

                               male     female


We are working hard to address both (i) staff gender balance – since 2016, 29% of PPR job
applicants, 45% of interviewees, and 60% of appointees have been female – and (ii) women’s
concentration in junior roles – encouragingly, since 2015 over 30% of PPR’s promotion
applications, and 50% of successful cases, have been from women.
    To address both gender balance and seniority, a 5-year action plan tackling women’s
concentration in junior roles was part of PPR’s successful 2019 Athena SWAN Bronze application.
We plan:
     to more pro-actively seek higher-grade job applications from women and BAME candidates;
     to review all staff CVs annually at PDRs;
     for the HoD actively to encourage relevant staff to seek promotion;
     to have balanced gender representation on the departmental promotions committee;
     to establish an informal careers mentoring programme, independent of PDRs.
Implementation is underway, monitored by the department’s Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
committee, which has emerged from the Athena SWAN committee.
     Through these actions PPR aims to augment Lancaster’s institutional efforts to reduce its
gender pay gap and to complement such institution-level measures as gender-balanced
appointment panels, unconscious bias training, and checking job specifications and
advertisements for gender bias.
      Further actions arising from Athena SWAN include: ensuring that every year some visiting
speakers address gender and race; 2019 and 2020 roundtables on Diversifying and Decolonising
the Curriculum; department-wide meetings to clarify recruitment practices; and training events,
e.g., on Trans Issues, Unconscious Bias. Several staff are active in initiatives to diversify
academia: Hearn is Lancaster UCU Equality Officer; Stone is assistant editor of the Diversity
Reading List, an online resource for diversifying philosophy.

59% of post-2014 grant applications from within PPR, and 71% of successful applications, came
from women, including 90% of the grants awarded as PI. Thus, women in PPR are more likely to
submit applications, with a higher proportion of successful applications.
    Our REF processes are gender-equitable: In REF 2014, we submitted 66% of eligible female
and 65% of eligible male staff. For REF 2021, we ensured conformity with Lancaster University’s
approved code of practice on staff selection, taking account of EDI considerations in establishing
our outputs profile. PPR’s REF 2021 Committee was 40% female, co-chaired by Woodhead and
Stone.

PPR adopts standard Lancaster University policy on maternity/adoption leave cover and flexible
working. Since 2014, four requests for reduced FTE were made in the department, all
approved. From 2019, visiting speakers were rescheduled to facilitate attendance from those with
caring responsibilities. We ensure equal gender balance among visiting speakers and PGRs


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
presenting work-in-progress. Reasonable adjustments have been made for four of five staff
members with declared disabilities or ill-health conditions.
     We are affiliated with the Disability Confident scheme and Stonewall Global Diversity, and are
active in university-level conversations around inclusivity for trans people.

Race and ethnicity. Reflecting our global expertise, 20% of PPR academic staff are BAME, ahead
of the sector average of 15%. However, our BAME staff are concentrated at lower levels of
seniority:



                    Staff seniority and ethnicity
 15                                        13
                          9                             9
 10
             6
                      4
  5      2                             2            1             1    1
  0
       Research      Lecturer    Senior Lecturer   Professor   Distinguished
       Associate                                                 Professor

                                 BME       White


To address this, our EDI committee is formulating targets and an action plan. PPR staff are active
in departmental and university conversations around racism: Ram-Prasad chairs the University’s
Strategic Race Advisory Group, on which Naguib and Hearn also serve, Hearn likewise being
active in Lancaster’s Race Equality Network. We are thereby helping Lancaster to progress
towards signing the Race Equality Charter by early 2021.


Research students
PPR has a substantial, growing, and thriving community of 81 FTE research students working on
topics surrounding ethical and political aspects of religion, belief, and values. Our interdisciplinarity
provides a unique and stimulating research environment for our research postgraduates (PGRs).
The following shows our success:

                                2014                2020              % increase

 Numbers of PGR                 51 FTE             81 FTE                  58%
 students
 Total completions               42                  57                    36%

 PGR completion                  83%                93%                    12%
 rate (full-time)
 PGR completion                  60%                86%                    43%
 rate (part-time)
 Percentage of                   30%                38%                    26%
 PGRs funded

Funding: Despite the increasingly competitive funding environment, a steadily rising number of our
PGRs are AHRC- and ESRC-funded through North-West Doctoral Training Partnerships, rising
from 10% of our funded cohort in 2014 to 17% by 2019. Around 4 of our PGRs annually receive full
funding from FASS, awarded competitively; some PGRs are funded through associated projects,
e.g., 3 by CREST. We work hard to secure PGR funding from other sources, so that UK funders in
the period have included the British Council, Christ Church Oxford, Liberal Judaism, and the
Wellcome Trust. Many overseas students are funded from their home countries, e.g., the Turkish

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Embassy, Algerian Consulate, Punjab Higher Education Commission, Royal Thai Embassy, and
Indonesia Endowment Fund for Education.
Other notable indicators are:
    Internationality. On average over the period, 37% of our PGRs have come from outside the
       UK, drawn from 28 countries altogether – evidence of our international reputation and
       appeal.
    Interdisciplinarity. Besides PPR’s internal interdisciplinarity, with many of our PGRs
       supervised across Philosophy, Politics, and Religious Studies, we co-supervise PGRs with
       (amongst others) Law, English, Sociology, Gender and Women’s Studies, and
       Management.
    Equality and diversity. Since 2013, 33% of PGR applicants and 40% of new PGR
       registrations have been female, in line with national benchmarks in our disciplines. 43% of
       our PGRs are BAME. We have achieved an equal gender distribution of PGR funding: by
       2019, 50% of funded PPR PGRs were female.

All the above, especially the increased number of total completions amongst PGRs, testifies to the
success of our PGR support mechanisms:

1. Research training:
Each new PGR undertakes a Training Needs analysis with supervisors on registration, which is
updated through annual review panels, and provides ongoing advice on progress and career
development. Each panel involves three academic staff (at most one supervisor per panel) to help
PGRs communicate clearly with non-specialists. PGRs take modules within the FASS Research
Training Programme, directed from within PPR by Germond: modules cover research methods,
thesis writing, research design, data collection, etc., plus subject specific modules. Further courses
are offered within Doctoral Training Partnerships and Institutes such as ISF. Students without prior
research training take the PPR MA module in Theory and Methods for Postgraduate Study. PGRs
can apply to the RDF for specialist training, e.g., one PGR undertook a Difficult Language Training
Course in Jordan.

2. Careers:
PGRs receive career advice primarily through the supervisory and annual review processes,
supplemented by Faculty and University level events and FASS careers consultants.

3. Graduate teaching assistantships (GTAs):
Most PGRs are offered the opportunity to hold GTA positions, which are awarded competitively,
providing practice in pursuing academic careers. From 2017, Politics GTAs received a formal
career programme comprising induction, weekly all-GTAs management meetings, teaching
observations, mentoring, and training; this was extended to Philosophy and Religious Studies
GTAs in 2019. All GTAs participate in the University’s Learning and Teaching in Higher Education
programme and contribute to PPR governance via an elected representative.

4. Internships:
Offered by the Richardson Institute, these allow PGRs to collaborate on research projects with
external partners. One PGR obtained an ESRC Policy Internship with the Home Office, another a
post as Policy School Tutor for the Cabinet Office.

5. Infrastructure:
All PGRs in the department have networked office space, shared by 2-4 students and accessible
24 hours; there is a termly PPR postgraduate newsletter; PGRs can access a total pool of £31k
conference travel funds from department and faculty combined, with two applications per year
permitted. Some PGRs have won funds from the RDF, often to enable conference participation.

6. Research culture:
Besides numerous departmental and faculty events noted elsewhere, we hold an annual PGR
conference and PGRs take part in work-in-progress sessions and run their own reading groups on,
e.g., Heidegger; philosophy of psychiatry; pragmatism; Whitehead. PGRs co-organise events in

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the department, e.g., the 2019 conference ‘Sectarianism, Proxies and De-Sectarianisation Across
the Middle East’, and have worked as editorial assistants for journals edited within the UOA, i.e.,
Global Discourse and the Hegel Bulletin.

In 2017-18, May, (then) PGR Director, reviewed these training arrangements, interviewing c. 60
PGRs and supervisors. Besides finding overall satisfaction amongst PGRs, May’s
recommendations, since implemented, were to:
     Provide better advice on writing strong PhD proposals and tailoring projects to supervisory
       capacity; this is now included on our webpages;
     Pursue PhD studentships more pro-actively; we have incorporated grant proposal writing
       into our foundational PGT Methods course;
     Improve induction events for PGRs; we have formalised these and enhanced their
       academic content;
     Listen better to PGRs; we now have an advisory PGR group which feeds into departmental
       meetings and liaises with the PGR convenor;
     Improve the functioning of annual PGR review panels; this is achieved through now-
       standard preparatory liaison amongst panel staff;
     Better incorporate PGRs into PPR’s research culture; (1) from Oct 2018, we established
       weekly PGR work-in-progress sessions; (2) to encourage PGR attendance at visiting
       speakers, we have moved these to midday.

The success of these arrangements is shown by our PGRs’ strong employment and publication
records:
   Employment: post-2013 graduates have become lecturers in, inter alia, Theology, Lincoln
University; Global Health, University of Edinburgh; British Imperial History, University of
Copenhagen; Assistant Professor in Biblical Studies, Arizona Christian University. Others have
become RAs: three Leverhulme Early Career Research Fellows (in Theology at Edinburgh and
Philosophy at Bristol and Manchester), a Wellcome Research Fellow (Lancaster) and a Senior
Research Associate in Security Studies (Copenhagen).
   Publications: all PGRs are encouraged to publish and several PGRs/ex-PGRs have authored
books, e.g., The Ethics of Choosing Children (Palgrave 2017), The Critical Study of Non-Religion
(Bloomsbury 2020), Transnational LGBT Activism and UK-Based NGOs (Palgrave 2020), and co-
edited books, e.g., New Atheism: Critical Perspectives and Contemporary Debates (Springer
2017), Securitisation in the Non-West (Routledge 2019).
   Amongst other achievements, recent PhDs have: founded The Religious Studies Project
podcast; won International Affairs’ annual early career prize; won the Political Studies Association
Barker Prize for the best PhD thesis in political philosophy.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
PPR is extremely successful in attracting research funding for projects on religion, values, and
belief in the social-political world, with awarded grant values coming into the UOA research income
totalling £3.9m in the period, a 22% increase on our pre-2014 grant income. With 55 projects
funded by over 23 different bodies, our grant acquisition has been solid, averaging around £550k
annually.
     We have accomplished this by (1) using our interdisciplinarity to facilitate large-scale
collaborative and high-impact bids crossing Religious Studies, Philosophy, and Politics; (2)
providing seedcorn funding and robust, supportive internal review of grant bids; (3) drawing
together staff across all levels of seniority to pool experience and expertise; (4) ensuring gender
balance, with 71% of recent successful grant applications from women.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The following table demonstrates the diversity of funders and research areas in which we have
won grants over the period, and the large scale of many cross-UOA projects in which PPR staff are
involved (figures refer to awarded values, with Lancaster share indicated for cross-institutional
awards):

 Project            Funder            Staff member      Scope               Income
 CREST              UK Intelligence   CI and Co-        National hub for    £11.8m
                    Communities/      Director Knott    understanding,
                    ESRC                                countering and
                                                        mitigating
                                                        security threats
 Security           EPSRC             Associate         Cross-              £2.79m
 Lancaster                            Director Lacy     disciplinary
                                                        institute in
                                                        Security and
                                                        Protection
                                                        Science
 Institute for      Leverhulme        Co-Director       Cross-              £1.5m
 Social Futures                       Woodhead          disciplinary
                                                        doctoral training
                                                        centre on
                                                        Material Social
                                                        Futures
 CASS T: Corpus     ESRC              CIs Germond,      Bringing corpus     £798k
 Approaches to                        Ram-Prasad        approach in
 Social Science                                         linguistics to
                                                        social science
                                                        issues
 Reproductive       Wellcome          Lancaster PI      Law, policy, and    Lancaster
 Donation:          Senior            Wilkinson         ethics of the       share £600k,
 Donation and       Investigator                        donation and        total £1m
 Transfer of        Award in                            transfer of
 Human              Ethics and                          human
 Reproductive       Society                             reproductive
 Materials                                              materials
 I.Family -         EU-FP7            Lancaster PI G.   Why young           Lancaster
 Determinants of                      Williams          people in           share EU
 Eating                                                 Europe eat as       €580k, total
 Behaviour in                                           they do and its     €9m
 European                                               health effects
 Children,
 Adolescents and
 their Parents
 SEPAD:             Carnegie          PI Mabon          Sectarian           $700k
 Sectarianism,      Corporation                         difference in the
 Proxies and De-                                        Middle East and
 Sectarianisation                                       beyond
 iGen: What         Knight            Lancaster CI      Concerns and        £400k
 Matters to         Foundation        Woodhead          identities of the
 Millennials                                            post-internet
                                                        generation

Other significant projects include:
    ‘Iconic Religion: How Imaginaries of Religious Encounter Structure Urban Space’, HERA
       Cultural Encounters Programme, CI Knott, Lancaster share €247k;
    ‘In Dialogue with the Mahabharata’, AHRC, CIs Black and Ram-Prasad, c.£112k;

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      ‘Re/presenting Islam on Campus’, AHRC/ESRC, CI Naguib, Lancaster share c.£45k.
      Several staff have also secured highly competitive individual research grants, detailed in
       Sec. 4.

Altogether, the above projects have funded 15 RAs during the period: 2 in Politics and Religion,
funded by CREST; 1 in Sociology of Religion, funded by Iconic Religion; 8 in Bioethics, 7 funded
by Reproductive Donation and 1 by Wellcome; and 1 in Human Values, funded by iGen.

Figures 1 and 2 are indicative of our overall success in securing funding, showing how our levels of
(1) ESRC and (2) charitable funding, across all our disciplines, compare favourably to those across
the sector.

Figure 1:




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 2:




Infrastructure
PPR’s areas of research and impact, and the interdisciplinary research structures that PPR
contains and contributes to, were explained in Sec. 1. All have received significant investment,
especially in staffing and appointments.

Regarding funding, all staff have a Personal Research Allowance of £1k annually, which is
complemented by several competitive Faculty research funds:
     the Research fund: up to £2.5k per person annually for: conference travel or organisation;
        specialist research assistance; impact activities; research equipment;
     the Strategic Internationalisation fund: £4k annually for activities fostering research links
        with other universities;
     the Conference Travel Fund, which prioritises ECRs.
FASS’s 4-member research development team offers comprehensive research support, identifying
funding opportunities, supporting proposal development, and giving post-award support and
training.
     The RDF (Research & Development Fund), administered by the RDC, provides seedcorn and
small research grant funding. Its annual budget has ranged from £3-8k over the period: for
example, in 2015-16, £7,790 was awarded to 11 successful applications. Since 2014, projects
funded have included a PGR-run workshop ‘Philosophy and Psychopathy’ and a musicology
research assistant for Stone’s Value of Popular Music. Overall, the RDF prioritises
interdisciplinarity, potential for future grant applications, ECR career development, and contribution
to research culture.

Much of our research infrastructure consists of events: weekly visiting speakers (rolling budget:
c.£10k, from ESRC and AHRC); regular staff and PGR work-in-progress sessions; the Royal
Institute of Philosophy branch (budget: £3k annually; recent workshops have included ‘Work in
Utopia’, ‘J. S. Mill’, and ‘Phenomenology and Mental Disorder’); plus over 30 additional
conferences at Lancaster in the period.
                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     The interdisciplinary structures located in or across PPR also host events, e.g., the Richardson
Institute’s monthly seminars and regular film screenings, the Institute for Social Futures’ ‘Global
Futures’ public lectures (with audiences as large as 500).
     Furthermore, staff: participate in Faculty- and University-wide clusters (e.g., the Migrancy
Research Group, co-director Follis); contribute to joint initiatives (e.g., a 2019 roundtable with Prof.
Terry Eagleton on Forgiveness); and collaborate with, inter alia, Law via Reproductive Donation,
Software Engineering via Security Lancaster, and Linguistics via Corpus Approaches to Social
Sciences.
     Another area of our scholarly infrastructure is our critical mass of language skills – including,
besides French and German, modern and classical Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin, and Sanskrit.

Since 2013, 18 visiting academics have enriched our research infrastructure, including:
    Ms. Zuzana Spicova (Charles University, Prague), author of articles on the Mahabharata;
    Prof. Sana’ Sargali (Professor of Constitutional Law, An-Najah University, Palestine);
    Dr Marcus Moberg (Abo Akademi/Turku), author of Church, Market, and Media (2017);
    Prof. Daniel DeNicola (Gettysburg College), whose Understanding Ignorance (2017) was
       largely written at Lancaster;
    Dr. Stefania Palmisano (Torino), author of Exploring New Monastic Communities (2015);
    Prof. Alison Scott-Baumann (Professor of Society and Belief, SOAS).

Infrastructure supporting impact at the University level is detailed in the institutional-level
statement. In 2019, the University won an ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (c. £1m, 2019-23), to
which PPR staff have applied (e.g., £15k to Wilkinson and N. Williams on uterus transplantation;
£15k to Marsden for a project designing online tools for global change).
At Faculty level, Impact and Knowledge Exchange grants have funded £45k of PPR projects since
2013, including Jeremiah’s projects on Christianity and Citizenship in India and Christian-Muslim
encounters. Post-2014, FASS has appointed an Impact Development Manager, Impact Support
Officer and Engagement and Partnership Manager, who have given PPR academics expert advice
and helped us build, capture, track and monitor our impact, as do the FASS and University press
teams.
At departmental level, our infrastructure supporting impact – in strategy, funding, staffing, and
organisation – was detailed in Sec. 1.

Estates and facilities
The UOA employs 8 support staff, one an IT specialist; 6 of these staff support research as part of
their duties. All staff have individual offices and up-to-date networked IT equipment. Information
Systems Services includes a Faculty IT team who provide round-the-clock support and help with
PPR projects such as distance learning PGT programmes.

Lancaster University Library holds 68,520 items in PPR, including 24,957 in religion, plus 4,272 e-
books. 1,732 e-journal subscriptions pertain to PPR (a 20% increase since 2013) as are two
specialist collections, the Quaker and Socialist collections. 555 of those e-journals are open
access. Besides all major databases and journal collections the library subscribes to several
specific collections relevant to PPR, e.g., China Academic and Equinox journals.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

PPR supports many forms of research collaboration on religion and belief in relation to political
conflicts and ethical debates. The many funded projects based in the department, e.g., ‘Iconic
Religion’, ‘In Dialogue with the Mahabharata’, and I.Family, are hubs of such collaboration. The
funding secured for these projects reflects our supportive environment in terms of, e.g., seed-corn
funding, peer support for grant bids, etc.
    Staff play leading roles in research networks: for example, Black is Secretary of the Spalding
Symposium on Indian Religions, Kawanami is Secretary of the UK Association for Buddhist
Studies, organising its annual conferences, Knott is President of the European Association for the
Study of Religion (2020-22), and Naguib co-chairs the British Association for Islamic Studies.

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Staff have organised at least 30 conferences at Lancaster and 38 more conferences
elsewhere since 2014, some overseas – in Canada, China, Germany, India, Italy, Myanmar, and
the U.S. Topics have ranged from ‘The Dialogical Indian’ to ‘The Ethics and Regulation of Uterus
Transplantation’ to ‘The Belt and Road Initiative’. PPR staff co-established the annual International
Conference on Cultural Political Economy (2015- ); the inaugural conference at Lancaster drew 90
participants from 20 countries with 69 papers.

Staff have developed relationships with key research beneficiaries:

(1) Many staff serve as advisors and consultants to user organisations and individuals, e.g.:
Chubb has advised the Brookings Institute, U.S. Naval War College, and the China Matters
Sydney-based think tank on China’s maritime policy; Clark was a consultant for the Chartered
Institute of Personnel and Development, authoring their report on Ethical Decision-Making; Follis
was consulted for the Council of Europe 2014 report on ‘The “Left-to-Die” Boat’, and her EC-
funded study of gendered trafficking, presented to the European Parliament in 2016, led to the EU
Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund commissioning more support for trafficking victims; Knott is
Chair of Governors of INFORM; Germond’s and Lacy’s white paper on maritime cyber-security
remains an authoritative resource for those responsible for the Navy’s future; Manson is on the UK
Biobank Ethics Advisory Committee and was on the Medical Research Council’s Ethics,
Regulation and Public Involvement Committee); Naguib advises the Oxfam Islamic Charitable
Board, Ram-Prasad was advisor to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and Woodhead advised the
Special Assistant to President Obama.

(2) We embed engagement with users into research projects: For example, the project
‘Sectarianism, Proxies and De-Sectarianisation’ (SEPAD) included the following pathways to
impact: events at the Work Foundation and Houses of Parliament; an interactive website with
podcasts, hosting regular exchanges with journalists; direct engagement with UK politicians
through an elite roundtable, a report launch in parliament, and a private workshop, plus speeches
at the UN and European Parliament. As a result, SEPAD met its target of engaging at least 60
international policymakers.

(3) This engagement feeds back into our research: e.g., Clark’s co-operation with the Royal
British Legion has informed his research on well-being and military veterans; Consterdine’s
fellowship for the Institute for Employment Studies, and work on projects for the DfEE, DWP, and
Metropolitan Police, has fed into her research on immigration; and M. Johnson’s co-operation with
the Murri Mura Aboriginal Australian community organization has informed his research into
deprivation which, reciprocally, has fed back into impact, as his three related British Academy-
funded knowledge exchange workshops led to the creation of an art and materials centre in
Ashington, UK, enhanced service provision for disabled people in Westfjords, Iceland, and a
services guide for Irish Traveller communities.

(4) We regularly co-organise user events and workshops, such as the London conference
‘Implementing an Opt-Out Organ Donation Policy in England: Philosophical and Policy Questions’,
which united academics, NGO representatives, and such policy makers as the Director of Ethics at
the Department of Health. Other examples are the Faith Debates and CREST’s stakeholder
workshops and conferences – for one, a joint academic/practitioner workshop with the Swedish
Prison and Probation service on countering violent extremism amongst prisoners.

(5) All staff undertake public engagement: key examples include: annual events run through
PPR’s Royal Institute of Philosophy branch; the department’s Politics/IR Outreach programme,
including schools modules on Prevent and Widening Participation; Naguib’s regular participation in
Islamic Studies and Islam in Europe summer schools in Turkey and Bosnia.

As also detailed in Sec. 1, through our collaborations, staff are making the following wider
contributions to society in the UK and beyond:



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(I) Improving religious education in the UK and overseas:
Besides our UK-focused work as illustrated in our case studies, overseas the Sakyadhita Thilashin
Sathin-daik Buddhist nunnery school co-founded by Kawanami in 1998 remains the foremost
institution in Myanmar for educating Buddhist nuns. In 2016, Kawanami co-organised the first
national conference for Myanmar nuns, attended by 300 delegates plus government officials such
as Myanmar’s Minister of Religious Affairs.

(II) Enhancing public understanding of religion:
To give just two examples, Naguib spoke on women in Islam on Women’s Hour, on Moses on BBC
R4, and was consulted for the much-viewed BBC1 documentary ‘Islam, Women and Me’; within
the Iconic Religion project, Knott co-organised the travelling public exhibition ‘The Urban Sacred’
shown in Bochum, Berlin, London, and Amsterdam (2016) and digitally, with accompanying
workshops involving local faith community members and civil society organisations. This
contributed to cultural enhancement and generated guides on local iconic landmarks for religion
schoolteachers.

(III) Furthering peace processes:
The Richardson Institute internship programme, founded in 2012, enables c. 50 undergraduates
annually, mainly from PPR, to research peace and conflict issues with partner organisations
including Theos, International Alert, and Radicalisation Research. Some interns produce reports
with these partners, e.g., on Daesh in Africa and the Middle East. Relevant public-facing events
include Annual Peace Lectures, workshops (e.g., on Radicalisation in the Middle East), and film
screenings.

(IV) Influencing policy on the Middle East:
For example Mabon’s extensive work engaging with parliamentarians (Commons and Lords) and
senior policy-makers from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and MOD; he was
Academic Advisor on a report by the House of Lords International Relations Committee, ‘The
Middle East: Time for a New Realism?’, which was debated in Parliament; he undertook research
with the Foreign Policy Centre; and he presented at All Party Human Rights Group discussions on
human rights in Saudi Arabia and Bahrain and at the Labour Party’s 2016 conference.

(V) Enhancing public discussion of politics and religion:
PPR academics undertake extensive media work. Garnett has made over 150 media contributions
to, e.g., BBC2, BBC4, BBC News 24, Sky News, CNN, and ABC. R. Johnson has given 88 media
interviews; his Brexit research was circulated to all MPs, several of whom used it to help shape
party policy on Brexit. Mabon’s 236 media interviews have reached over 70m people – the highest
media profile of any FASS staff member. Misra has appeared 40+ times on, e.g., France 24,
CNBC Arabia, Newsweek, and First Post, and Naguib has been interviewed on women-led
mosques on BBC News, the Guardian, and 15 BBC Radio stations. Collectively, PPR staff
members’ Conversation pieces have reached just over 2 million readers.

(VI) Improving health care provision:
An example is I.Family, and its predecessor project IDEFICS: the largest child cohort study of
obesity across Europe, which established reference values for various markers of children’s health
and development. Project conferences were attended by EU officials and members of national
governments, with press releases covered in many national media, e.g., Spiegel, Zeit,
Süddeutsche Zeitung, Der Standaard (reach c.100k).

Interdisciplinarity: Since our core research agenda is interdisciplinary, all the department’s
research infrastructure, support, and provision foster interdisciplinary research. This includes
cross-disciplinary appointments (e.g., Marsden’s appointment in Radicalisation and Protest in a
Digital Age), the integrated seminar programme, the make-up of the Research and Development
Committee, and the integration of PGRs from PPR’s several disciplines. Exemplars of our
interdisciplinary research include CREST, Reproductive Donation, iGen, and I.Family, plus
academic direction of the Institute for Social Futures and Lancaster University China Centre.


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PPR’s responsiveness to national research and impact priorities is indicated, for example, by:
SEPAD’s work addressing sectarian identities in the Middle East; Consterdine’s talks and
presentations on immigration policy to, amongst others, the Fabian Society, European Parliament,
and European Commission; and Woodhead’s policy work advocating reform of Religious Studies
teaching.

The following indicates staff members’ influence on and recognition by the broader research
community across religion, values, and politics; this also shows how the unit is contributing to the
sustainability of its component disciplines: (Co-operative and collaborative arrangements for PGR
training were in Sec. 2.)

Many staff perform significant editorial roles.
They edit book series: Dialogue in South Asian Traditions (Routledge; co-ed. Black and Ram-
Prasad); Routledge Studies in Conflict, Security and Technology (Lacy); Bloomsbury Studies in
Religion and Popular Music and Studies in Popular Music (Equinox; Partridge); Bloomsbury
Research Handbooks in Asian Philosophy (co-ed. Ram-Prasad); Breaking Feminist Waves (19
vols., Palgrave; co-ed. Stone); and the AHRC/ESRC Religion and Society series (22 vols.,
Ashgate; co-ed. Woodhead).
Some staff have carried out editorial projects such as editing the Bloomsbury Handbook of Religion
and Popular Music and The Occult World (Partridge), serving as General Editor on Mysticism and
Spirituality for the Oxford Research Encyclopedia for Religion (Ram-Prasad) and Associate Editor
of the Encyclopaedia of the Qur'ān (Naguib), co-editing the Routledge Companion to Feminist
Philosophy, a special issue of the British Journal for the History of Philosophy and a forthcoming
Oxford Handbook on Women in Nineteenth-Century Philosophy (Stone), and co-editing two special
issues of Bioethics (Wilkinson).
Several staff have edited or co-edited journals, e.g., Global Discourse (M. Johnson), American
Journal of Islam and Society (Naguib), and the Hegel Bulletin and Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist
Philosophy – the best-known feminist philosophy journal, internationally (Stone).
Staff serve on numerous journal editorial boards including those of Religion, Religions of South
Asia, Religions, Religion State and Society, Public Sociology, Journal of Sociology, Open
Theology, Religion and Gender, South Asian Diaspora, Journal of South Asia, Religion Compass,
Fieldwork in Religion, Quaker Studies, and the Journal of Contemporary Religion.

PPR staff sit on many national and international advisory boards. For select examples:
Kawanami is on the doctrinal commission at the Centre for Buddhist Studies, Ghent, and the board
of the Khyentse Buddhist Foundation; Knott has advised the Danish Research Council on the
Critical Analysis of Religious Diversity Network, the Norwegian Research Council on Cultural
Conflict 2.0: Religion, Media and Locality, and the UKRI Connected Communities programme;
Naguib is on the committee of the British Board of Scholars and Imams, a national initiative to unite
Islamic scholars across alignments; Ram-Prasad advised on an Equality and Human Rights
Commission project on Caste in the United Kingdom and on the Working Papers of the India-China
Centre at the New School, NY; and Woodhead’s many advisory roles have included roles for the
Pew-Templeton Global Religious Futures Project and the NWO Research Council ‘Religion in
Society’ Programme, besides others in Oslo, Uppsala, and Ottawa.

All PPR staff are involved with external research evaluation. For example: Knott has advised the
University of Göttingen research cluster on ‘The Making and Unmaking of the Religious’,
undertaken a research review of the Centre for Religious Studies at the University of Groningen,
and is on the National Stakeholder Group of Horizon 2020 ‘Dialogue about Radicalization and
Equality’; Marsden is on the steering committee of the European Consortium for Political Research
and the Standing Group on Political Violence; Partridge is on the Strategic Review Group of
Woodbrooke Quaker Study Centre, Birmingham; Ram-Prasad is on the Academic Advisory
Council of the Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies, is a founding Fellow of the Lokahi Foundation, and
is on the Distinguished Academic Board of the Dharma Association of North America; Woodhead
is on the boards of the Religion and Politics National Cluster of Excellence at the University of
Münster, the Centre for the Advanced Study of Religion in Oslo, and the U.S. Religion News


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Service; she was a delegate, chair and speaker at the WEF in Davos, 2013, and is on the Global
Advisory Council on Faith.

We recognise that peer review and evaluation sustain scholarly infrastructure. Accordingly, staff
have reviewed collectively for over 300 journals and for presses such as Oxford and Cambridge
University Press, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, I.B. Tauris, Blackwell, Ashgate, Chicago
University Press, etc. Research councils and funding bodies for which staff have evaluated
include the British Council, European Research Council, European Science Foundation, Canadian
Research Council, Icelandic Research Fund, Irish Research Council, National Science Centre in
Poland, Deutsche Akademische Austausch Dienst, Australian Research Council, Academy of
Finland, Institut D’Études Avancées de Paris, and the Volkswagen Stiftung. This supplements
evaluative roles across many AHRC and ESRC funding schemes, including the Royal Society.

Several staff have held prestigious funded fellowships: Cooper, a £92k British Academy Mid-
Career Fellowship ‘Evaluating the DSM’, yielding a monograph and 3 journal articles; Knott, a
£473k UKRI Global Uncertainties Leadership Fellowship on ‘The Role of Ideology, Belief and
Commitment in Motivations, Justifications and Catalysts for Action’; Stone, a £68k Leverhulme
Major Research Fellowship ‘Birth and Philosophy’, yielding the monograph Being Born (OUP
2019). Since 2012, the UOA has hosted two British Academy Postdoctoral Fellows (Chubb, M.
Johnson), a Leverhulme Early Career Fellow (N. Williams), a Security Lancaster Fellow (Follis),
and a Wellcome Trust Post-Doctoral Research Fellow (Fellowes).

Other staff have held visiting fellowships, e.g., at the LSE Middle East Centre, Women in
International Security (Washington DC), and Kroc Institute (Notre Dame) (Aldoughli); Beijing
Foreign Studies University and Minzu University Beijing (Kawanami); and the Stanford Center for
Advanced Study in Social and Behavioral Sciences (Woodhead); plus visiting professorships:
e.g., at the Department for the Study of Religion, University of Toronto (Kawanami); at Ruhr-
Universität Bochum (G. Williams); and at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science in
Berlin, the University of Münster, and the Dept. of Religious Studies at Stanford University
(Woodhead, who also holds an Honorary Research Fellowship in Education at Oxford).

Keynotes: Staff have given more than 120 keynote lectures in the UK and countries including
Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Eire, Finland, France, Germany
India, Iran, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and the U.S. Examples include
keynote addresses to the Association for Sociology of Religion (U.S.), European Association for
the Study of Religion, Mind-Life Contemplative Conference (U.S.), Religious Diversity conference
(Delhi), two-week Vienna summer school in Philosophy and Psychiatry, and two plenary addresses
to Joint Sessions of the Aristotelian Society and Mind Association (the main UK annual philosophy
conference). Stone’s work was the subject of an international philosophy conference in Padua,
Italy.

Public lectures: Staff have given over 150 public talks and lectures at regional, national, and
international venues including the Battle of Ideas (Barbican), ICA, Cambridge Festival of Ideas,
Hay-on-Wye festival, the inaugural Critical Religion Group lecture (Stirling), the inaugural Birkbeck
Women in Philosophy lecture, the Cadbury lectures (Birmingham), the Hans Blumenberg lecture
(Münster), Garfield lecture (Stanford), Croall and Gunning lectures (Edinburgh).

Amongst distinctions and prizes won by our staff: M. Johnson received a Rising Star
Engagement Award from the British Academy; Knott received an honorary doctorate from the
University of Helsinki; Ram-Prasad was elected a Fellow of the British Academy and his Divine
Self, Human Self won the Best Book award 2011-15 from the Society for Hindu Christian Studies;
Stone’s The Value of Popular Music won an Outstanding Publication Award from the Society for
Music Theory; and Woodhead received honorary doctorates from Agder University Norway, the MF
Norwegian School of Theology, and University of Zurich, and an MBE for services to higher
education in 2013.



                                                                                             Page 20
