Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: Newcastle University


 Unit of Assessment: UoA5 - Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 UoA5 scientists deliver transformational biological discoveries that underpin new clinical and
 industrial applications. To achieve this, we work in large multidisciplinary teams, and actively
 engage with local partners, the global academic community and the pharmaceutical industry. Of
 the 117 Newcastle University (NU) based UoA5 outputs, 95% feature internal or external
 collaborations. We have made major investments in external recruitment at senior professorial
 level (Palmer, Trost); early career researchers (ECRs, Greaves, Holden, Hudson, Lowe,
 Melnikov, Nicholls, Strahl, Wollman and Connolly); together with >£9.4million in scientific
 facilities, research infrastructure and state-of-the-art technologies that underpin our research.
 Consequently, our REF2021 UoA5 return is significantly expanded to 58 staff (56.6FTE) versus
 32 (30.6) in 2014.

 UoA5 research income in this REF period was £58million. This includes five new Wellcome
 Investigator Awards (Errington, Higgins, Trost, van den Berg, Zenkin), two Wellcome Senior
 Fellowships (Murray, Sanz), three Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellowships (Davies, Holden,
 Nicholls), two Wellcome Collaborative Awards (Salgado, Quinn), an MRC Career Development
 Award (Madgwick), a BBSRC/Innovate UK Catalyst grant (Lakey) and a CRUK programme
 grant (Perkins). In addition to other external recognition of UoA5 staff, Embley, Gilbert and
 Palmer were elected as Fellows of the Royal Society (FRS).

 1.2 Research and Strategy

 UoA5 research activity is grouped into three major research domains: Bacterial Cell Biology
 and the Human Microbiota, Structural Biology and Eukaryotic Cell Biology, Signalling and
 Disease. Two key goals from our REF2014 research strategy were ‘developing our research
 groupings through key appointments and appropriate investment’ and ‘fostering interactions
 between different research groups’. We have achieved this through key appointments of senior
 staff and recruitment of ECRs, together with investment in our facilities. New technologies
 associated with these appointments have stimulated collaborations. Furthermore, activities such
 as Friday lunchtime PI talks, Institute Research Away Days, summer BBQs, focused workshops
 (including on genome editing and mouse models of cancer) and research groupings (the ‘Fungal
 forum’, ‘Cell Cycle and Mitosis’) have combined to create a collaborative atmosphere.

 1.2.1 Bacterial Cell Biology and the Human Microbiota
 Microorganisms play critical roles in all major aspects of life on earth such as human health,
 infectious diseases and global ecology. Bacteria are ideal experimental models to unravel the
 complexity of crucial cellular mechanisms and organismal interactions. Our scientists have an
 international profile including three current (Errington, Palmer, Embley) and one recently
 retired (Gilbert) FRS. Many researchers are also members of the Centre for Bacterial Cell
 Biology (CBCB) (Director: Errington), an internationally recognised centre of excellence.

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 UoA5 scientists use bacteria to:

        Discover the fundamental mechanisms underpinning cellular processes such as growth,
         the cell cycle, environmental sensing and signalling. Example: work from Palmer (with
         Strahl and Trost) identified a Staphylococcus aureus toxin that can inhibit the growth of
         bacterial competitors in vivo (PNAS2020).
        Uncover the mechanisms that underpin the beneficial effects of the commensal
         microbiota. Example: research from Bolam, Lowe, Cuskin, Gilbert on the microbiota
         has provided new insights into the mechanisms underlying the breakdown of complex
         glycans in the gut (PNAS2017; Nature2017).
        Understand bacterial and eukaryotic evolution, and the evolution of bacteria as
         symbiotes. Example: Embley redefined our understanding of evolution by demonstrating
         that eukaryotes derived from archaea prokaryotes in a two domain ‘Tree of Life’
         (NatEcolEvol2020).
        Determine the mechanisms that important bacterial pathogens use to cause disease and
         resist antimicrobial treatment: Examples: Errington’s work, with Aldridge and Hall, on L-
         form bacteria has demonstrated their importance in antibiotic resistance and recurrent
         urinary tract infections (Cell2018, NatCommun2019); Zenkin, with Yuzenkova and
         Errington, has revealed the role of RNA polymerase in antibiotic resistance
         (MolCell2018).
        Translate these discoveries to real-world applications such as combatting antibiotic
         resistance, developing new therapeutics, diagnostics, bioprocessing and synthetic
         biology. Example: research by Murray into the mechanisms of bacterial DNA replication
         (Nature2016) is providing the basis for ongoing antibiotic drug discovery (see s4).

 Recruitment: During this REF period, we have built capacity through the recruitment of Palmer,
 a world-leading bacterial cell biologist (NatMicrobiol2016). There has also been strong
 recruitment of ECRs. Lowe and Cuskin have strengthened research into the microbiota
 (Nature2015). Holden has brought cutting-edge expertise in super resolution microscopy and
 used this to make fundamental insights into bacterial cell division (Science2017). Strahl
 investigates the role of membrane curvature and fluidics on protein function (NatCommun2015).
 Melnikov strengthens research on the evolution of parasites (PNAS2018 x2), an area where
 Hirt and Embley provide existing expertise (Nat Commun2018). Scientists in this area work
 closely with infectious disease researchers and clinicians to give their research clinical context
 (PNAS2019; CellHostMicrobe2017). This has been further strengthened through the recruitment
 of Connolly (NatCommun2018).

 Notable grants:
     Wellcome Trust Investigator Awards: Errington, Palmer, Zenkin, Vollmer
     Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellowship: Murray
     Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship: Holden

 1.2.1 Eukaryotic Cell Biology, Signalling and Disease.
 We investigate the molecular basis of cell signalling in both normal cellular function and in
 disease using model and pathogenic organisms. These mechanisms underpin many areas of
 biology and allow cells to sense and respond to both the extra- and intra-cellular signals that are
 critical to maintain organismal homeostasis. Defects in these systems compromise development
Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 and contribute to infertility, ageing, pathogenicity, cancer and other diseases. Targeting these
 pathways forms the basis of many current and future clinical therapies (Impact Case Study (ICS)
 ‘Erdafitinib, a first-in-class treatment for bladder cancer’). This area’s research provided the
 underpinning research for two further ICSs ‘Peptest, a quick and simple test for reflux’ (Pearson)
 and ‘ aProximate, a renal in vitro cell culture model to better predict toxicity during drug
 development’ (Brown)). UoA5 researchers in the Wellcome Centre for Mitochondrial Research
 (WCMR) (Greaves, Hudson, Lightowlers, Nicholls), study the molecular basis of
 mitochondrial disease. WCMR scientists pioneered the clinical technique of mitochondrial
 donation, with Lightowlers contributing to the essential underpinning biology of UoA1 ICS “A
 new technique to prevent transmission of mitochondrial disease”. NU is also a CRUK Centre,
 and the development of the Centre for Cancer (NUCoRE 1.3.2) brings together all cancer-
 related investigators and research activities from across the University, including several UoA5
 staff (Higgins, Huang, Greaves, Perkins, Schneider, Veal).

 Research in this area focuses on:

        Dissecting and understanding cell signalling in normal cellular function and disease.
         Example: von-Zglinicki, Passos, Korolchuk, Saretzki have shown how inflammation,
         cell senescence and telomere loss contribute to defects in cell signalling, ageing and the
         development of cancer and other diseases (NatCommun2014; NatCommun2014;
         JCellBiol2017; NatCommun2017).
        Chromosome replication, cell division and genome stability. Example: research in this
         area brings together the groups of Higgins, Huang, Lydall, Madgwick, Maringele,
         Rodriguez, Davies, Whitehall, who investigate the fundamental mechanisms underlying
         the cell cycle, genome stability, mitosis, meiosis and cell polarity (DevCell2019;
         JCellBiol2019; DevCell2017; GenesDev2019; NatCommun2014).
        Epigenetic signalling, transcriptional regulation and RNA processing. Example:
         Schneider and Watkins discovered that the Utp24 endonuclease cleaves pre-ribosomal
         RNA at two coupled sites in yeast and humans (NuclAcidsRes2016).
        Understanding the role of mitochondria in human health and disease. Example: work
         from the Greaves laboratory, with Perkins, Hudson and other NU colleagues, has
         revealed that age-associated oxidative phosphorylation defects caused by somatic
         mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations result in metabolic remodelling of cells that
         accelerates intestinal tumorigenesis (NatCancer2020).

 Recruitment: Trost whose research focuses on innate immunity and macrophage biology
 (EMBOJ2018), has also brought the application of state-of-the-art proteomics to NU.
 Recruitment of ECR Nicholls has brought expertise in mtDNA replication to the WCMR
 (MolCell2018, 2019). Complementing the recruitment of Holden (see above), Wollman brings
 expertise in single-molecule microscopy that he used to describe clustering of transcription
 factors in cells (eLIFE2017).

 Notable grants:
     Wellcome Trust Investigator Awards: Higgins, Trost
     Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship: Nicholls
     Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award: Quinn and Trost
     Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellowship: Sanz
Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        MRC Career Development Award: Madgwick
        CRUK Programme Grant: Perkins

 1.2.3 Structural Biology
 Knowledge of the structure of biomolecules is essential for understanding all biological
 processes and is the basis for the development of novel therapeutics, materials, diagnostics.
 Structural biology research at NU goes far beyond the UoA5 staff listed here, and is, for
 example, at the core of FMS cancer drug discovery research (see Erfatinib ICS). This area
 incorporates the Newcastle Structural Biology Lab (SBL), which encompasses five research
 groups (UoA5: van den Berg, Salgado, Marles-Wright; UoA1: Endicott, Noble), supported by a
 modern facility with over 50 users. Specific interests of UoA5 structural biologists include:

        Structural microbiology, focused on bacterial organisms, from human pathogens to gut
         microbiota. Examples: van den Berg continues to make significant new insights into
         membrane transporters and structure (NatMicrobiol2020; NatMicrobiol2017). In addition,
         van den Berg has collaborated with Bolam to determine the structural basis for nutrient
         acquisition by dominant members of the human gut microbiota (Nature2017) and with
         Rutherford to describe the structural basis for regulation of Mep2 ammonium
         transceptor activation by phosphorylation (NatCommun2016). Lewis and Vollmer
         collaborated to determine the structure and function of a spectrin-like regulator of
         bacterial cytokinesis (NatCommun2014). Dennison and Waldron discovered that copper
         storage requires a four-helix protein bundle (Nature2015).
        Using structural biology to investigate mammalian cell division. Example: Davies, with
         Madgwick, has provided new structural insights into meiosis (NatCommun2016) and the
         synaptonemal complex (NatStructMolBiol2016).
        Understanding biomolecules, their function, structure and interactions. Example: Lakey’s
         research has revealed new structural models for the gram negative bacterial outer
         membrane, which is known to reduce antibiotic effectiveness (PNAS2018).
        The development of new biomaterials. Example: Lakey, in collaboration with Perkins
         and NU colleagues from UoA8 and UoA12 (4.5.2), is developing the Yersinia pestis Caf1
         protein as a novel biomaterial (Chem2020).

 Notable grants:
     Wellcome Trust Investigator Award: van den Berg
     Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship: Davies
     Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award: Salgado
     BBSRC/Innovate UK Catalyst Award: Lakey

 1.3 Organisational Structure

 The Faculty of Medical Sciences (FMS) restructured in 2019 to facilitate inter-disciplinary
 working and now comprises three interconnected research institutes, the Biosciences Institute
 (NUBI), Translational and Clinical Research Institute (NUTCRI) and Population Health Sciences
 Institute (NUPHSI). These play a key role in supporting our research with state-of-the-art
 facilities, training and career development. This UoA5 return comprises 56 scientists from NUBI
 together with two members of the Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering (SAgE)
 whose research focus is biological sciences.

Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1. Organisational Structure

 1.3.1 Research Themes
 To build on our existing strength of collaborative research and we created research themes
 which pull together multi-disciplinary teams of researchers, allowing new fields of expertise to be
 recognised and nurtured. We designed themes to be bottom-up and flexible so that they are
 responsive and can evolve over time.

        All staff in FMS choose membership of a Theme that best aligns with their research
         interests and are typically affiliate members of up to two others.
        Themes organise a range of events designed to promote inter- and intra- theme
         collaboration that include internal and external seminar speakers, PI retreats, research in
         progress talks from PGR students, postdocs and technicians, as well as regular meetings
         to discuss relevant topics such as the research funding landscape or industrial links.
        Shared Theme membership, joint activities such as lunchtime research talks given by
         Theme members and the support of Institute-wide activities, such as Research Days,
         combine to support a collaborative spirit and approach.

 1.3.2 Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs)
 NU also promotes cross-faculty, interdisciplinary research through the NU Centres of Research
 Excellence (NUCoREs REF5a 2.2.1)). The NUCoRE model encourages grass-roots
 establishment of research networks operating across the three university faculties.




Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 1.4 Future Research Strategy

 1.4.1 Creating a collaborative and interdisciplinary research environment
 In what will be a challenging funding landscape, we believe that continuing and enhancing our
 collaborative approach will increase the impact of NU biological sciences research and create
 new opportunities to secure external funding. We aim to further develop interdisciplinary
 research, an area we have identified where improvement is needed. This will be facilitated by
 the Research Themes that create a more collaborative research culture. In parallel, NUCoREs
 link UoA5 scientists to other faculties, NHS colleagues and patients, to local and national
 research structures, industry and businesses. UoA5 staff are already members of the NUCancer
 and Rare Diseases NUCoREs. A ‘Host and Microbes’ NUCoRE is currently in development
 that will further create collaborative opportunities between colleagues working in Microbiology
 and Immunology. Interdisciplinary research will also be promoted through the development of
 the IMA incubation Incubator (3.3) and SIGs (1.4.2).

 1.4.2 Enabling technologies and methodologies for life science research
 The Innovation, Methodology and Application (IMA) Theme, which spans all 3 FMS Institutes
 and has >260 members, has developed Special Interest Groups (SIGs), focused on different
 enabling technologies and methodologies (Figure 2). These are a crucial element of our future
 strategy to develop and optimise new approaches and to connect the most appropriate
 technologies and methodologies to the right research questions. These will also contribute to
 research integrity by establishing a culture of best practice in data generation, annotation,
 analysis and presentation. See also IMA Innovation Incubator (3.3).




 Figure 2. Special Interest Groups




Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 1.4.3 Building capacity
 We have identified three areas where we aim to build capacity over the next REF period,
 through a combination of establishing collaborations, increased grant income and, recruitment.

        Metabolomics analysis provides a detailed understanding of changes to cellular
         metabolism resulting from metabolic diseases, drug treatments, genetic mutations or cell
         signalling pathways. These provide insights required to understand the nature of disease,
         reveal new drug targets and diagnose biomarkers. Building capacity in Metabolomics will
         add value to our recent investments in proteomics, contribute to many of our existing
         strategic areas such as cancer, mitochondrial disease, infection and inflammation, and
         link to biologists in SAgE.
        Single cell technologies and methodologies now underpin significant and high impact
         discoveries across several biological disciplines. NU has already invested in this area
         (Genomics Core Facility, 3.2), has world-leading expertise (ECR recruit Wollman,
         Haniffa - UoA1) and has formed strategic links (e.g. Sanger Institute).
        Underpinning future research in areas such as genomics, proteomics, metabolomics and
         single cell technologies is a requirement to integrate and mine the data generated, using
         innovative machine-learning approaches and high-throughput computing. Investment in
         Data Science is therefore critical for us to build further capacity in other areas.

 1.5 Impact Strategy

 UoA5 has an impact champion (Pearson), who works closely with FMS impact officers to
 identify potential impact from research, including impact beyond the current REF ICSs (4.5). The
 nature of the fundamental biosciences research performed in UoA5 typically generates impact
 through:

        providing the molecular basis for target identification in drug discovery and subsequent
         mechanistic analysis that underpins successful clinical application (Erfatinib ICS
         “Erdafitinib, a first-in-class treatment for bladder cancer”
        development of a process, technique and unique expertise that can be used by the
         pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries (ICS ‘Fibrofind, a stable human alternative for
         testing anti-fibrotic drugs’ and ICS ‘Skimune, a test for adverse immune reactions to
         compounds including chemicals, cosmetics and novel pharmaceuticals’).
        Commercialisation of novel reagents generated in the laboratory (4.5.2).

 A common theme of the UoA5 ICSs is a foundation in fundamental laboratory research that can
 be developed for therapeutic or commercial benefit:

        With ICS Peptest, Pearson and colleagues created a pepsin ELISA assay that was then
         further developed by Technostics, to create ‘Peptest, a quick and simple test for reflux’.
        The development of Erdafitinib, the “best-in-class” FDA approved, pan-FGFR inhibitor
         currently used for the treatment of bladder cancer, relied on our expertise in Structural
         Biology. Here, structural analysis of a target protein, combined with characterising the
         binding of low molecule weight drug-like fragments using X-ray protein crystallography


Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         and/or Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy, provided the foundation for the rapid
         development of candidate FGFR inhibitors.
        Basic fibrosis research by J Mann, D Mann, Oakley and Borthwick led to the
         development of an improved bioreactor that maintains the viability and function of
         precision cut tissue slices (PCTS) derived from ex vivo human organs. FibroFind uses
         this expertise to generate in vitro fibrosis models that are used for drug target validation
         and determination of efficacy by a wide number of pharmaceutical companies.
        Dickinson found that an adapted graft versus host assay could accurately predict the
         immune reaction to novel compounds. This led to the development of Skimune, a skin-
         based assay that predicts allergic reactions to pharmaceuticals and other compounds in
         vitro. The Skimune series of predictive assays have been successfully commercialised
         by the biotechnology company Alcyomics.
        Research by Brown, resulted in the development of aProximate cells, in vitro cell culture
         models of human and animal kidney proximal tubule. These models provide substantial
         new mechanistic and species-specific data about the nephrotoxic potential of new drug
         molecules. Newcells market the aProximate system and to date over 50 new drug
         molecules have been screened for major Pharmaceutical companies.

 These UoA5 ICSs principally map onto two areas as defined in the REF:
     Impacts on the health and wellbeing of people and animal welfare: Peptest & Erdafitinib
     Impacts on commerce and the economy: FibroFind, Skimune & aProximate

 1.6 Research Integrity and Openness

 The University is a signatory of the Concordat for Research Integrity and, as outlined in
 REF5A 2.3, has identified Professor Simon Woods (UoA21) as its expert convenor on
 research integrity, while Professor Candy Rowe (UoA4) has been appointed Dean for
 Research Culture and Strategy with oversight of integrity. We maintain policies and
 procedures compliant with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, subscribe to UKRIO,
 and are members of the Russell Group’s Research Integrity Forum. We have several
 approaches to promote these aims:

        All PGR students, as part of their first year induction, attend ‘Research Ethics – Theory’
         and ‘Recording your Research’ workshops. Our PGR Development programme (2.6.1)
         includes a compulsory session on ‘Academic Integrity and Plagiarism’.
        The 'PI Development Programme' and ‘New PGR supervisor training workshops' both
         feature sessions on Research Culture and Integrity.
        Colleagues are supported by our Research Data Manager in the development of data
         management plans for research proposals, including making use of the University’s
         Research Data Repository (REF5a 2.3.3).
        The University’s ePrints repository ensures research outputs are made Green Open
         Access, while we make best use of RCUK/UKRI and COAF, together with Faculty and
         Institute funds, to increase the proportion of Gold open access publications.




Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

 2.1 Recruitment

 We have taken a balanced approach towards recruitment that combines external appointments
 with continued nurturing of Newcastle-trained scientists.

 2.1.1 Recruitment of senior staff
 The recruitment of Professor Matthias Trost in 2017 strengthened our research in Eukaryotic
 Cell Biology, Signalling and Disease and required investment in state-of-the-art proteomics. In
 addition to his own research group focused on innate immunity and macrophage biology, Trost
 also provides leadership as the academic lead for Proteomics. Professor Tracy Palmer,
 recruited in 2018, strengthens our expertise in Bacterial Cell Biology and the Human
 Microbiota and leads our Microbes in Health and Disease Theme. Palmer’s research was
 recognised by her election as an FRS in 2018.

 The retirement of Lewis (in 2019) resulted in loss of leadership in the area of Structural
 Biology. As part of our succession strategy, Marles-Wright was recruited in 2016 as a Senior
 Lecturer in Microbial Biotechnology in the SAgE Faculty where he researches bacterial stress
 responses and metal acquisition, and strengthens our research in this area. In addition, we have
 just completed the recruitment of Professor Wyatt Yue who uses structural biology for drug
 discovery in the treatment of rare diseases. Yue will join NU in 2021.

 2.1.2 Recruitment of ECRs
 In our REF2014 UoA5 submission we highlighted the then recent development of the five-year
 tenure-track Independent Researcher Establishment Scheme (IRES), an initiative driven by the
 Institute for Cell and Molecular Biosciences (ICaMB, now incorporated into NUBI). From that
 initial cohort, Davies and Rodriguez have both progressed to open-ended contracts and full
 academic positions.

 The success of the IRES scheme allowed FMS to broaden this scheme across the whole faculty
 as the Newcastle University Research Fellowship (NURF). Like the IRES, these are five-year
 fellowships to support ECRs with emerging reputations for innovative research. In this UoA5
 return, six members of Category A staff were recruited as NURFs: Greaves, Holden, Hudson,
 Lowe, Nicholls, Strahl. Of these, Greaves, Lowe and Strahl came from our existing pool of
 Newcastle postdoctoral researchers. Greaves, Holden, Hudson and Strahl have all progressed
 to open-ended contracts and full academic positions. The NURF programme was so successful
 that it served as the model for the University-wide NUAcT (Newcastle University Academic
 Track) Fellowship scheme (REF5a 3.2.4). Two of our UoA5-returned staff are current NUAcT
 fellows (Melnikov, Wollman).

 This major investment in highly talented and successful ECRs meets and exceeds a key
 strategic objective of our REF2014 UoA5 return. The adoption of the FMS fellowship model by
 the University ensures that we continue to do so.




Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2.2 Staff Development and Mentoring

 2.2.1 Overview
 Since 2014 we have invested in mentoring, support and training for our staff, with the aim of
 creating an integrated strategy to develop scientific careers through all stages (Figure 3). This
 includes career development opportunities, mentoring and financial support for all levels and
 categories of staff.

 We adopt a Team Science approach to ensure that our technical staff, technologists and
 methodologists are properly acknowledged for their contribution to our research and have a
 stable and rewarding career structure, with opportunities for promotion and development.

 The university is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and actively manages career progression. A dedicated Career Advisor and
 Organisational Development Specialist at University level work with our Research Career
 Development Group to ensure that our Research Staff Career Pathways Framework and
 training is reflective of the needs of the Faculty. Consequently, the university has retained its
 Vitae HR Excellence in Research Award through multiple reviews since the original award in
 2010. The launch of our Skills, Enterprise, Policy and Global Academies ensures the co-
 ordination of training at all career levels (REF5A 3.2). Together these represent a successful
 outcome to our UA5 REF2014 goal of ‘emphasising personal development programmes’.




 Figure 3. Summary of Support Programmes

 2.2.2 Career Development Support
 The NU Organisational Development Team (OD, REF5a 3.2.5) delivers support and
 coordinates resources to help researchers learn and develop. Academic staff are entitled to 10
 days for professional development, which includes a variety of training courses and workshops.
Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In particular, the NU Manager Toolkit is a suite of workshops, online training and short videos to
 help both academic and non-academic managers. These include Aurora, an advanced HE
 women-only development initiative for women early in their careers.

 Twice a year OD run the PI Development Programme, which is attended by all our ECRs who
 have been appointed to NURF, NUAcT or lectureship positions. Consisting of six one-day
 courses, it is designed to support PIs at an early stage in their role as managers and includes
 people and project management skills, how to become an effective research leader and their
 responsibilities under the Concordat.

 Our programmes also provide practical support at different career stages. The Returners
 Support Programme is a University programme that can, where appropriate, be supplemented
 by FMS funds. This provides additional support to members of academic or research staff who
 are returning to work after a long period of leave, including sick leave or carers leave. For
 example, in February 2020, after a period of maternity leave, an RA working with Perkins was
 provided with technical support to assist with their return to lab work. Our Broadening our
 Horizons scheme enables researchers and PGR students to present their work at conferences,
 visit other research groups to gain new techniques or mentoring and consequently raise their
 personal profile and that of Newcastle internationally. For example, in August 2019 £2,228 was
 awarded to an RA with Lightowlers to visit the University of Gothenburg as part of a collaborative
 project.

 2.2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Our return includes 58 members of staff. 15 are women (25% up from 9% in 2014); 3 are Black,
 Asian & Minority Ethnic (BAME) with one staff member declaring a disability. Seniority levels are:
 Chair 40%, Mid-career 48% and ECR 12%. The gender split at career stage shows a gradual
 increase in the proportion of women with 13% of Chairs, 33% of mid-career and 43% of ECRs
 being women, although we acknowledge that we still have work to do.

 We hold University Athena Swan status at the University level, are a signatory of the Advance
 HE’s Race Equality Charter, a Global Stonewall Diversity Champion and member of the
 Business Disability Forum. This commitment is reflected in our policies and programmes and we
 have built on these foundations at local level as outlined in 2.2.2. Following successful Athena
 Swan awards for ICaMB (Bronze 2015) and FMS (Silver 2018), we have sought to maintain and
 built on our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) through our Faculty
 restructure, building on the positive practices developed during these awards.

 Our physical workspaces are configured for colleagues with sensory and physical access
 requirements and our buildings have baby changing facilities and designated breastfeeding
 rooms. Flexible working is accommodated; pre-COVID some colleagues chose to work remotely
 part of the week or had flexible or compressed working hours to accommodate their personal
 circumstances. Meetings and seminars are arranged around flexible work patterns, religious
 needs and ensure a gender balance of presenters. We also ensure gender balance on our
 decision-making committees and in seminar programmes.

 The NUBI Academic EDI Lead, Khan, is a member of the Institute Executive Board and Faculty
 EDI Committee. He provides EDI feedback and reports together with regular updates on EDI in

Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 the NUBI Monthly Newsletter. He is also a member of the University BAME Steering Group.
 NUBI has created an EDI Steering Committee, which meets monthly and includes the NUBI
 PGR and Professional Services (including technical staff) EDI Leads, together with EDI
 Representatives from the Research Themes most closely affiliated with NUBI.

 We monitor gender and ethnicity at each career stage to inform our recruitment and career
 development activity. Although 38% of promotions have been women, and 33% of those to
 personal chairs, this is below the Faculty average. Our future EDI strategy therefore focusses
 on:
         Continuing to seek to achieve gender balance across all career stages;
         encouraging all colleagues, particularly women, to seek promotion;
         supporting and enabling colleagues to declare disabilities;
         scrutinising our recruitment processes and improving our accessibility to diverse
          applicants, addressing our gender balance and the relatively low proportion of BAME
          colleagues (5%).

 To enable critical scrutiny of our recruitment processes, “blind” triaging of NUAcT applications is
 now undertaken; subsequent monitoring will determine whether this effects meaningful change.
 We will continue to work on University initiatives to create research cultures, activities and
 environments where people from varied backgrounds can thrive.

 We have ensured that EDI considerations are embedded throughout our submission. For
 example, our outputs have been selected through an open process of self-nomination using our
 Research Management System followed by anonymous evaluation by at least two other senior
 academics with both an indicative score and reasons. The REF lead moderated the scores
 across disciplines. Selection of the return was by paper, not author, in line with our code of
 practice.

 2.2.4 Performance and Development Review (PDR)
 Every member of staff undergoes an annual PDR, to review last year’s performance, agree
 objectives, identify priority tasks and outline personal development plans. The PDRs for
 academic and research technical staff take place within the individual’s primary research theme
 with sign-off by the Theme Lead and Dean of Institute. This approach allows the Theme Lead to
 gain a greater understanding of the academic staff within their Theme, provide them with
 appropriate support staff and build a thriving research culture. A key part of the PDR process is
 to encourage staff to apply for promotion.

 2.2.5 Recognition and Reward
 Formal recognition for excellent performance happens via an annual promotion round, a fully
 open process which encourages all academics to submit their case for promotion. NU signed the
 Declaration on Research Assessment in 2018 and therefore does not use journal impact factors
 for promotion or evaluation of research staff. Achievements are based on quality evaluations and
 non-contextual citations, not journal names. In 2021, we move to a year-round engage and
 aspire programme with mentoring at all levels, rather than an annual one-off review. The
 university has also committed that the impact of personal circumstances during the COVID-19
 pandemic will be considered as part of the reward and recognition process.


Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Since 2017 an annual meeting between ‘women’s promotion champion’ (Quinn) and the ICaMB
 (now NUBI) Director preceded each annual round of promotions. Potential applicants were
 encouraged and mentored during the application process. In this REF period, 13 members of
 staff have been promoted (Hall, Korolchuk, Murray, Quinn, Rodriguez, Salgado, Sanz,
 Shanley, Strahl, Yuzenkova, Holden, Schneider, Waldron, Davies). This includes three
 promotions to Professor, three fellows to Principal Research Associate and one fellow to
 Principal Research Fellow.

 2.2.6 Support during COVID-19 (REF5A COVID-19 Annex)
 During lockdown, NUBI arranged well-attended (>100 per session) regular virtual PI, PGR and
 RA Q&A sessions to keep staff in touch and updated with the latest developments. These were
 supplemented by virtual drop-in sessions, regular mailings and newsletters.

 For students in their write-up year, a three month fee-free extension to their thesis submission
 deadline is awarded if requested. PGR students can also apply to the NU COVID-19 Impact
 Scholarship Scheme, run through the Doctoral College, for an additional stipend if additional
 funding from their normal sponsor is not provided.

 2.3 Fellowship Schemes

 FMS has a well-developed programme to support applications for non-clinical fellowships and to
 provide an academic track for researchers who wish to transition to academic contracts.
 Fellowship applicants are provided with personalised support to develop applications from
 Themes, Institutes, and our dedicated RFDMs, overseen by the Director of Non-Clinical
 Fellowships (Higgins).

 2.3.1 Junior Fellowships
 We provide competitive Faculty Fellowships that provide salary and research funds for 2 years
 (with optional third year extension) to allow RAs to develop applications for external fellowships.
 This programme provides mentorship and a supportive assessment of progress by an academic
 panel, which can recommend a further year of funding if appropriate. This programme has been
 highly successful: out of 33 completed FMS Faculty Fellows, 80% have since secured full
 academic positions, more senior fellowships or additional external junior fellowship funding.
 Members of FMS who secure external junior research fellowships are given similar status and
 oversight to Faculty Fellows. In UoA5, Connolly is a current Faculty Fellow, while Greaves,
 Strahl and Waldron are former Faculty Fellows who have now progressed to open-ended
 academic contracts.

 2.3.2 Academic Track Fellowships
 Support for Fellows, which includes NURFs (2.1.2) and those with equivalent external
 fellowships (e.g. Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale), is provided by the Academic Track
 programme. This provides a pathway for ECRs to develop their own independent research
 programme and to secure open-ended academic positions. The programme includes
 mentorship, formal peer-to-peer networking, training such as the PI Development Programme,
 “ACTION for Impact”, and the Newcastle Educational Practice Scheme. Annual formal reviews
 of fellowship progress are undertaken, starting with a mid-term review during Year three. The
 review panel includes external academic members and can recommend that a Fellow should
 move to an open-ended academic position based on transparent written criteria. Successful

Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Fellows will be well-placed to subsequently apply for promotion to Principal Research Associate
 on the Research and Innovation pathway, or to Lecturer or Senior Lecturer on the Teaching and
 Research pathway.

 Overall, in this REF period, 20 fellows in UoA5 have been recruited (four IRES, nine NURF, two
 NUAcT, 3x Royal Society URF, two other). Of these, 11 have now progressed to open-ended
 contracts and remain in Newcastle, four are still part of the Academic Track, while five have
 progressed to faculty positions elsewhere (two IRES, three NURF).

 2.3.3 ECR Support
 The Research Career Development Group, meets regularly to discuss and plan support for
 research careers. This group includes academic staff of all career stages including ECRs,
 Organisational Development and Careers Service colleagues, an EDI representative and a
 representative of the FMS Postdoctoral Association. The committee is chaired by the Director of
 Non-Clinical Fellowships (Higgins), a senior academic who co-ordinates support for FMS ECRs.
 Induction events for new research staff signpost the support available for personal development,
 making funding applications, and generating impact through commercial and clinical interactions.

 Examples of our support for ECRs include:
       Madgwick was awarded a prestigious Wellcome Career Re-entry Fellowship that
        enabled her to return to scientific research in Newcastle in 2013 after a career break.
        When this fellowship expired, she was supported through direct salary funding from
        FMS before successfully applying for an MRC Career Development Award
        (£1,172,509) and being awarded an open-ended contract.
       Murray started in Newcastle as a RA and was originally appointed as an independent
        PI with a Royal Society University Research Fellowship (URF). More recently he was
        awarded a Wellcome Senior Research Fellowship, followed by promotion to Professor.
       Other successful ECRs returned as part of this UoA5 submission include Yuzenkova,
        who was funded by a Royal Society URF and has now been promoted to Senior
        Lecturer; Rodriguez, initially recruited as an IRES fellow and now promoted to Senior
        Lecturer; Strahl, initially recruited as a NURF, and now promoted to Senior Lecturer;
        Waldron, who held a Wellcome Henry Dale Fellowship and Schneider who held a
        Royal Society URF, are both now appointed as Principal Research Associates.

 2.4 Supporting Research Associates (RAs)

 2.4.1 RA Mentoring Scheme
 In Sept 2017, ICaMB created an RA mentoring scheme, assigning all new RAs joining the
 Institute a mentor PI who was not their direct supervisor. Over the next two years, 29 RAs were
 assigned a mentor through this scheme. Feedback was positive and used as evidence for the
 2018 FMS Athena Swan application. We have continued this scheme following FMS
 restructuring. Quinn acts as NUBI mentor co-ordinator, working alongside the ECR leads of
 NUBI-led Research Themes to assign RAs a mentor. To date, 56 RAs and 50 mentors have
 been enrolled on this scheme.




Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2.4.2 Research Theme Support
 Research Themes provide additional support for RAs through several initiatives. Each theme
 also has one or more ECR leads. In addition to arranging RA mentoring, ECR leads liaise with
 RAs and ECR fellows to identify any concerns or problems and arrange bespoke theme
 meetings on subjects of particular interest to this group (such as fellowship funding). Themes
 also host ‘Research in Progress’ talks that give RAs (as well as PGR students and technical
 staff) constructive feedback on ongoing projects and experience at giving presentations.

 2.4.3 Career Pathways Framework
 The NU Organisational Development team offer RAs a range of workshops that provide a
 Career Pathways Framework. These include two sessions on Career Guidance together with the
 Transitions Programme, a series of three interactive workshops for researchers in the last six
 months of their research contract to help them search and apply for non-academic jobs.

 2.4.4 Bridging Scheme
 Bridging is a core element in our delivery of the Concordat for the Career Development of
 Researchers. By providing funds to bridge between grant funding this has supported the
 retention of key skills and added to equality and diversity by preventing some RAs from dropping
 out of a scientific career. In the last REF period, there were 95 instances of bridging support
 provided in FMS, with 27 being to UoA5.

 2.5 Technical and technologist career development

 UoA5 technical and technologist staff provide a reservoir of expertise and experience that is the
 backbone of our research. Our commitment to Team Science includes recognising these
 contributions; 23% of the outputs in this UoA5 return have technicians as co-authors while
 technicians are also co-author on papers underpinning 40% of our ICSs. Of these authors,
 seven have also registered for or completed PhD studentships. Technical staff are the backbone
 of our Facilities (3.2) and are active members of Special interest groups and the IMA
 Innovation Incubator.

 We are creating a research environment that breaks down the barriers between technical and
 academic staff. An example of this is Dr Andrew Filby, a member of the Professional Services
 technical community and head of the Flow Cytometry Core Facility (3.2). Filby is recognised by
 the International Society for the Advancement of Cytometry as a Shared Resource Laboratory
 "Emerging Leader" and serves on their council. He is also a Wellcome Multi-user Equipment
 Grant panel member. In November 2019, he applied successfully to lead the newly established
 IMA Research Theme.

 FMS technical staff are supported by several NU programmes (REF5A 3.2.6). These include the
 formation of NU TechNet in May 2016, a “for-technicians, by-technicians” organisation that
 provides a university-wide forum for technicians to share resources, information and
 experiences. Technicians are included in the University’s strategic vision and, for example, the
 newly established Skills Academy includes a technical focus. NU is a founding signatory of the
 Technician Commitment, which aims to ensure that technicians receive career development
 advice, visibility and recognition for their work, and that technical skills are retained across
 organisations. NU provides financial resource to support a wide spectrum of activity including
Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 opportunities for Technicians to travel to other institutions and to become a partner affiliate of the
 National Technicians Development Centre.

 2.6 Postgraduate (PGR) students

 Our PGR doctoral students are a vital part of the research performed in UoA5 and have made a
 major contribution to our research environment, demonstrated by 33% of our REF submitted
 papers featuring at least one PhD student author (47% of which are first or joint first author).
 Over the REF period we have either supervised (either completely or partially with supervisors in
 other UoAs) 199 individuals to completion and we currently supervise or co-supervise 203
 students. 55% or our doctoral students are women, 33% BAME (13% excluding international
 students) and 25% international students.

 We are committed to ensuring that during their PhD study, our students obtain a diverse range
 of core skills, together with specialised subject-specific science skills, to maximise their potential
 for future employment. In the 2019 HEA PRES survey, the UoA5 PGR student body responded
 very positively about their research supervisors: 95% of students agreeing strongly that “my
 supervisor(s) have the skills and subject knowledge to support my research”; 90% strongly
 agreeing that “my ability to manage projects has developed during my programme”; and 88%
 strongly agreeing that “as a result of my research degree programme I feel better prepared for
 my future career”.
 A strong commitment to research student culture is evidenced by:

         FMS PGR financial support (e.g. pre-viva scholarship funds to enable papers to be
          written after thesis submission, annual symposia for 2nd/3rd year PhD students, social
          events).
         FMS PGR performance targets are routinely met or exceeded. As a representative
          snapshot, in 2018-19 the student progression rate was 92% (Faculty target 90%), and
          our 4-year submission rate was 90% for Home/EU students (UKRI target 70%) and 86%
          for International students.
         The North East PG (NEPG) Conference (one of the largest such conferences in the UK
          with >600 registrants each year), was co-organised by our students in 2017-2020. This is
          largely supported by UKRI DTP sponsorship but allows free participation to all PGR
          students in the North of England. As lead organiser of the 2018 NEPG conference, one
          UoA5 student introduced crèche facilities, (funded by Newcastle University EDI funds),
          which are now a regular feature.
         A UoA5 student was a member of the winning team in the Engineering YES National
          Competition in 2018.
         UoA5 students have also formed the Biosciences Institute Social Committee (BISCit)
          which organises research and career symposia and social events.
         PGR first career destinations include: prestigious national and international research
          institutions (e.g. Universities of Cambridge & Oxford; NIH, Bethesda; Danish Cancer
          Society Research Center); industry (e.g. AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline); medical writing
          (e.g. Articulate Science); management consultants (Marakon; Catenion); global policy
          analysis (Rand Europe); The Home Office (Forensic Science Laboratory); and a medical
          charity (Wellcome).


Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 To foster the best possible students, we invest in research-led undergraduate teaching with
 emphasis on project work in our research laboratories. Carefully selected basic science
 graduates and intercalating medical students proceed to a range of focused PGR Masters
 (MRes and MPhil) programmes which have supported 322 students during this REF cycle.
 These Masters students spend >6months working on research projects, with 91% reporting
 overall satisfaction with their programme (PRES 2019). This training “conveyer” generates a
 pool of research-motivated postgraduates who can compete successfully for funded doctoral
 studentships.

 2.6.1 PGR student training, monitoring and support (REF5A 3.2.2 & 4.1.1)
 The University operates a Code of Practice for research degrees, compliant with the QAA code
 of practice. Our Research Student Development Programme maps to the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework, which complements students’ research and provides activities that
 build transferable skills and confidence. Students across the Faculty are provided with excellent
 pastoral support through a network of Postgraduate Student Coordinators (Cheek). To
 ensure any problems with academic progress are identified and, where possible, rectified,
 students undergo a formal annual progress review with two independent members of academic
 staff. Each new student is allocated a mentor as well as a senior PGR student ‘buddy’, to help
 them to settle in.

 2.6.2 Doctoral Training Awards
 UoA5 members have helped secure four external doctoral training awards over the REF period
 totalling £15.74m (£3.95m NLD BBSRC DTP2 2015-19; £7.44m NLD BBSRC DTP3 2020-24;
 £3.30m DiMeN MRC DTP1 2016-2020; £1.05m Leverhulme Trust 2018-2020). Consequently,
 UoA5 supervisors can consistently recruit approximately 20 high-quality students per year to
 fully funded 3.5-year (MRC) and 4-year (BBSRC, Leverhulme) studentships. The WCMR also
 supports PhD students who are supervised by UoA5 PIs. A further source of PhD funding are
 the pan-EU training schemes (Marie Curie ITN or ERC) held by Embley, Errington, Lewis,
 Lightowlers, Trost, Vollmer. During this REF period we have also focused on the application of
 technology and impact generated by our PGR students. UoA5 supervisors have secured >20
 UKRI-funded CASE studentships with multinational pharma (e.g. GSK, AstraZeneca),
 manufacturing companies (e.g. Procter & Gamble, Thermo-Fisher) and SMEs (e.g. Demuris,
 Pall Europe, Technostics).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 UoA5 staff returned in REF2021 have generated £58M in research income during the last REF
 period, which includes many highly competitive grant and fellowship awards:

         Vollmer (2014), Zenkin (2014, 2019), Higgins (2016), Palmer (2016), Errington
          (2018), Trost (2019) and van den Berg (2019) received Wellcome Trust Investigator
          Awards (total: £12.2m).
         Additional programme level funding comes from the ERC (Errington, 2015, £1.8m),
          CRUK (Perkins, 2016, £1.2m) and BBSRC/Innovate UK (Lakey, Perkins and others,
          £2.5m, 4.5.2).

Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         Salgado (2017) and Quinn/Trost (2019) are co-PIs on two Wellcome Trust
          Collaborative Awards (NU received £1.3m).
         Lightowlers, Greaves and Hudson all contributed to the 2017 renewal of the WCMR
          (£6.3m).
         Davies (2014), Holden (2017) and Nicholls (2019) received Wellcome Trust Sir Henry
          Dale Fellowships (total: £2.8m).
         Madgwick was awarded an MRC Career Development Award (2020, £1.2m).
         Murray (2017) and Sanz (2019) were awarded Wellcome Trust Senior Research
          Fellowships (total: £3m).
         Salgado (2015) was awarded an MRC New Investigator Research Grant (£568k).
         Other Academic Track PI grants include: two BBSRC New Investigator Awards (Strahl,
          2018, Rodriguez, 2019, total: £893k); an AMS Springboard Award (Connolly, 2020,
          £85k); and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship (Melnikov, 2020, €225k).

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Our state-of-the-art technical facilities underpin our research. To ensure they meet demand and
 deliver cutting-edge analytical technologies and methodologies they have received >£9.4m since
 2014, secured from external income sources and FMS, with over 18 additional permanent core
 facility staff employed. We have created an Analytics Hub to coordinate and maximise their
 efficiency (Figure 4). Analytics hub facilities are involved in over 600 projects from over 200
 research groups per year, with over 750 publications where facility contributions were
 acknowledged by authorship.




 Figure 4. Analytics Hub.

 The Bioimaging Unit (Laude) provides routine and cutting-edge imaging modalities, ranging
 from conventional brightfield, widefield–fluorescence and confocal imaging techniques through

Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 to high-content, super resolution, light-sheet and multi-photon microscopy (Equipment funding
 £2.91m, internal £1.27m, external: £1.64m).

 The core technologies of the Flow Cytometry Core Facility (Filby) are mass cytometry,
 fluorescence cytometry, metabolimetry and imaging cytometry. With 16 instruments, this facility
 caters to a wide variety of needs, from single colour assays to complex multi-colour panels,
 mass cytometry and cell sorting (Equipment funding £1.77m, internal £0.8m, external: £0.97m).

 The Genomics Core Facility (Coxhead) was established in 2016 through a £1.7m grant from
 the MRC. The GCF offers state-of-the-art services and advice in single cell studies, next-
 generation sequencing, real-time PCR, Droplet-Digital PCR and laser-capture microdissection.
 The GCF can also provide Spatial Transcriptomics analysis, a powerful technology allowing the
 whole transcriptome to be analysed within a positional context, enabling sequencing data to be
 visualised directly on a tissue histology section. This facility benefits from the recruitment of
 Veltman (UoA1) in 2017, a world-leading expert in genomics.

 Electron Microscopy Research Services (Davey) has a range of specialist equipment that
 produces scanning and transmission electron microscopy data of specimens from both biological
 and material sciences. Cutting-edge equipment provides cryo-EM capabilities and tomography
 (£544,589 BBSRC equipment grant).

 Preclinical In Vivo Imagining (PIVI) (Luli) provides equipment and support for MRI, PET and
 fluorescence/bioluminescence real-time imaging that permits investigation of biological
 processes in comparative animal models.

 The Bioscreening Facility (Martin-Ruiz) provides high-throughput screening and biological
 reagents to cater for researchers working with both mammalian and microbial cell-based
 systems, enabling the rapid identification of novel targets. Services include sample handling and
 processing, siRNA library screening and small molecule drug screening. LifeArc, a non-profit
 drug discovery company, collaborates with NU researchers through the BioScreening facility and
 provides a series of carefully curated compound libraries free of charge for any NU researchers.

 Staff in the Bioinformatics Support Unit (BSU) (Cockell) help with both experimental design
 and data analysis. These include RNA-Seq, ChIP-Seq, microarrays, genome sequencing, single
 cell sequencing and proteomics. Additional advice is provided on statistical power and sample
 size, batch effects and other confounding factors, database design, custom software engineering
 and data management and curation, including repository deposition of high-throughput data
 sets.

 Services provided by the Protein and Proteome Analysis (NUPPA) facility (Porter) include
 identifying single proteins and proteins in complex protein mixtures, characterising proteins,
 finding post-translational modifications and quantifying proteomes. NUPPA offers a wide range
 of protein analysis techniques: analytical ultracentrifugation, protein ligand binding calorimetry
 and protein production. This facility benefits from the recruitment of Trost, an expert in
 proteomics, which required a £3M investment with the purchase of new mass spectrometers and
 remodelling of laboratory space.


Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Comparative Biology Centre (CBC): (Murphy) provides a modern, multi-species facility
 for the use of animals in biomedical research. Working closely with the Home Office and NU
 Animal Welfare Ethical Review Body, the CBC advises researchers on the Animal (Scientific
 Procedures) Act and ensure the principals of the 3R's are applied to all animal research work.
 The Centre offers all modules of the Home Office training courses plus tailored training and
 competency on an individual level. The recruitment of Mellor (UoA1) involved a £7m
 refurbishment of the CBC in 2014/2015, which also benefited UoA5 researchers using mouse
 models (Greaves, Madgwick, Perkins, von-Zglinicki).

 In 2015, the University invested £929k in the Newcastle Structural Biology Lab for a Metlajet
 D2 diffractometer, the first of its kind in the UK. Structural biology researchers also have access
 to Diamond Light Source, Daresbury, ISIS Neutron and Muon Source and Central Laser Facility.
 Basle, from the SBL, is involved in discussions of future developments and new technological
 advancements. Salgado has been a member of and chaired the Diamond Light Source Review
 Committee.

 3.3 Increasing Research Income

 To increase future research income and impact for UoA5 scientists we have the following
 strategies:

         Increased opportunities for collaboration and links with translational researchers and
          clinicians arising from Research Themes and NUCoREs will create new funding
          opportunities for UoA5 researchers, such as collaborations with clinicians to create
          opportunities for NIHR funding where we currently receive little grant income.
         The development of the IMA Innovation Incubator has provided a collaborative space for
          researchers with very different expertise to form multi-disciplinary teams to address key
          research questions. These teams will also provide natural structures to innovate and
          develop collaborative grant applications. An example of the latter is a 2020 Wellcome
          Multi-user Equipment Grant for spectral cytometry valued at £490,000, on which Filby
          was the PI with nine NU Co-Is including Trost.
         Access to cutting-edge in-house technologies will generate stronger preliminary data,
          increase the scope of grant applications and improve success rates. Examples are state-
          of-the-art proteomics (through the recruitment of Trost) and microscopy (through the
          recruitment of Holden and Wollman), with Trost providing proteomics expertise on
          grants with Quinn (Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award, £1.2m, 2019), and was PI on a
          £578k Wellcome Multi-user Equipment Grant ‘State-of-the-art proteomics for Newcastle’
          with Lightowlers, Errington and others as co-Is. Holden was PI on £402k BBSRC
          19ALERT grant ‘A single cell, single molecule microscopy platform for antibiotics
          research’ with Strahl (co-PI), Vollmer, Errington, Palmer, Zenkin and Murray). To
          stimulate future growth, we plan to build future capacity in metabolomics, single cell
          technologies and data science.
         The Small grant scheme provides funding to researchers, with a focus on ECRs,
          requiring preliminary data in support of a grant application. Two recent successful
          examples are: £7,294 funding for Madgwick, leading to the award of an MRC Career
          Development Award (£1.2m) in 2020; £8,760 funding for Connolly (Faculty Fellow),
          leading to the award an AMS Springboard Award (£85,667) in 2020.

Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 3.4 Income generation support

 We provide support for UoA5 scientists in several ways:

         Improved grant mentoring through Research Themes. For example, by giving input at
          an early stage in the grant writing process through running ‘Perfect your Pitch’ or
          ‘Dragons’ Den’ sessions. These structures are supported and coordinated by the host
          institute, who have a designated ‘grant champion’ (Perkins).
         Our Research Funding Development Managers (RFDMs) work with applicants and
          assist with such as career intentions, lay summaries, training plans, Gantt charts, and the
          overall intelligibility of the application. RFDMs also organise and record mock interviews
          as needed and provide vital intelligence on forthcoming grant calls.
         Developing industrial collaboration and funding is supported by the Business
          Development and Enterprise Team via Business Development Managers (BDMs).
          BDMs identify potential industrial collaboration opportunities and support existing ones
          through performing market intelligence reports on specific sectors of interest; reviewing
          intellectual property landscapes; ensuring appropriate confidentiality and collaboration
          agreements are in place; informing industrial collaborators and academics of funding
          mechanisms; identifying a route to market for university technology; and managing
          protection and commercialisation of university intellectual property. To further assist with
          this, Connon (UoA1) has been appointed as FMS Director of Business Development.
          He will liaise with BDMs and Industry Leads in each Research Theme to facilitate and
          progress ideas and identify the best way to carry this forward, such as identifying
          relevant industrial contacts.
         Our Research Support Team colleagues provide a bespoke funding and development
          service with expertise in specific funders to enable appropriately costed funding
          applications.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Networks and Collaboration

 UoA5 scientists collaborate extensively with colleagues across NU and other institutions. Of the
 UoA5 outputs in REF2021, 18% are authored with researchers in other UoAs, while 71% and
 22% feature international and national co-authors respectively. Moreover, 29 (46%) UoA5
 scientists are authors on outputs returned in other UoAs. Collaboration is further facilitated by
 membership of national and international research networks:

         Von-Zglinicki is a member of the Alliance for Healthy Ageing (Newcastle, Groningen,
          Kopenhagen, Mayo Clinic, University of Minnesota). The Alliance holds annual meetings
          with the objective of bringing together scientists, clinicians and engineers. NU organised
          the 6th (2015) and 10th (2019) conferences.
         Von-Zglnicki and Korolchuk have a long-standing collaboration with the Mayo Clinic
          Robert and Arlene Kogod Center on Aging (NatCommun2017; NatCommun2018;
          CellMetab2019).
         NU (von-Zglinicki) is the lead partner from a developed country in Multidisciplinary
          Institute for Ageing Portugal (MIA), University of Coimbra. This consortium includes
Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


          UMCG Groningen, Ageing Research Institute Kopenhagen and CECAD Cologne. This
          has led to funding through H2020 WIDESPREAD: MIA Portugal, €15M 2020-27
          (Newcastle PI von-Zglinicki, €760k). This funding has resulted in the appointment of
          Miwa from the von-Zglinicki group to an FMS lectureship in 2021.
         Errington is a member of the Global Mycetoma Working Group, a large international
          group led by the CDC and formed in 2018 to tackle this neglected tropical disease.
         Korolchuk is a member of the EU COST Transautophagy network.
         Holden was consortium lead (2016-2019) of the Single Molecule Localization
          Microscopy challenge, an international assessment of super-resolution microscopy
          software (publication NatureMethods2019).
         Lightowlers and Trost are members of EU Marie Curie ITN networks, MCS-ITN and
          Magic Bullet respectively.

 Collaboration and networking are also facilitated by the conferences organised/co-organised by
 UoA5 scientists:

         Yuzenkova: International Frontiers of Science Symposium, Japan (2019); 26th, 29th UK
          RNA polymerase workshops, NU (with Zenkin, 2014, 2017); Royal Society Meeting of
          Minds Conference (postponed due to COVID-19, 2020).
         Holden: Subtillery 2020 virtual international conference (2020); 6th Molecular
          Microbiology Meeting, NU (with Yuzenkova, 2019); Physics of Microorganisms
          workshop, Institute of Physics, UK (2019).
         Palmer: Zing Conference ‘Protein Secretion in Bacteria’, Florida (2016).
         Errington: 3rd Bacterial Cell Biology Conference, Nassau (2020).
         Perkins: UK/Ireland NF-kB/IKK workshops (2015, 2017, 2019); European NF-kB subunit
          workshops (2014, 2016, 2018).
         Vollmer: EMBO Workshop "Bacterial Cell Division: orchestrating the ring cycle", Prague
          (2016).
         Salgado: International C. difficile Symposium (2019); 11th Clostpath (2018-2019); 7th
          ICDS conference (online due to COVID-19, 2020).
         Austin: International virtual seminar series TOPO2020 during COVID-19 pandemic
          (2020).
         Veal, Korolchuk, Sanz: Biochemical Society meeting: Redox Signalling in Physiology,
          Ageing and Disease’ (2019).
         Whitehall: Microbiology Society Theme Meeting "From Discovery to Impact" (2019).
         Hudson: Parkinson’s UK Research Conference (2018).

 4.2 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

 UoA5 staff engage with other scientists in their fields, contributing to the vitality and strength of
 biological sciences. In addition to the common scientific activities of reviewing grants and
 papers, giving seminars at other institutions, workshops or symposia, this includes the
 organisation of research conferences and chairing or sitting on national and international grant
 panels:

         Palmer: BBSRC Appointments Board (2017–2020); MRC Infections and Immunity Board
          (2012-2016); Wellcome Science Interview Panel (2017–2021).
Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         Errington: Wellcome Molecules Genes and Cells Expert Review Group (Chair, 2015-
          2017).)
         Zenkin: Wellcome Molecular Basis of Cell Function Expert Review Group (2020-2023).
         Austin: MRC Non-Clinical Career Development (2013-2017).
         Waldron: Royal Society Research Grants (2017-2023).
         Daniel: BBSRC Committee B (2012-17).
         Korolchuk: Midterm review BBSRC Institute strategic funding (2019).
         Vollmer: Agence Nationale de Recherche, France (2017-2019).
         Von-Zglinicki: ERC Starting Grant Physiology (2020).
         Lakey: Finnish Science Academy Cell Biology (Chair, 2017-2020).
         Perkins: Science Foundation Ireland, CDA (Chair, 2017).
         Embley: Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships (Vice Chair, 2013-2020); Marie
          Skłodowska-Curie Actions Innovative Training Networks (Vice Chair, 2018-2020).
         Lightowlers: NAWA, Poland (2018-present).
         +19 additional panel memberships.

 UoA5 investigators also act in an advisory capacity for more than 50 other institutions (for
 example):

         Errington: ARC Centre of Excellence in Advanced Molecular Imaging, Monash (Chair,
          2015-present); Biomedical Discovery Institute, Monash (2019-present); Manchester AMR
          Centre (2017-present); MRC Centre for Molecular Bacteriology & Infection (Chair, 2017-
          present).
         Palmer: Max-Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology, Marburg (2019-2024);
          Sainsbury Laboratory Norwich (2019-2024; MRC Centre for Molecular Bacteriology and
          Infection (2013-2019); Institute of Microbiology and Infection University of Birmingham
          (2017-2019).
         Austin: Athena SWAN panel (Chair, 2008-present); Member of Athena Forum (2018-
          2021); Royal Society of Biology Diversity & Inclusion committee (Chair, 2018-2019).
         Von-Zglinicki: Mayo Clinic, Robert and Arlene Kogod Center on Aging (2008-present);
          Leibniz Research Alliance for Healthy Ageing Germany Advisory Board (2016-present).
         Perkins: University of Strathclyde Drug Discovery Group (2011-2017).
         Trost: Francis Crick Institute Proteomics facility (2020); Wellcome Centre for Cell
          Biology, Proteomics facility (2020-2021).
         Lightowlers: LabEX, Strasbourg (Chair, 2013-2020).
         Vollmer: Centro de Biologia Molecular "Severo Ochoa", CSIC-UAM Madrid (2012-
          present).
         Lakey: STFC ISIS Neutron Source Facility (2015-present); MLZ Neutron Source Munich
          (2016-present); European Spallation Source Lund Sweden (2019-present).
         Hudson: Multiple Sclerosis and Parkinson's Tissue Bank (2015-present).
         Korolchuck: Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft Collaborative Research Centre review
          (2020).
         Salgado: Diamond Light Source MX Review Panel (Chair, 2015-2017).




Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 UoA5 investigators also act as journal editors:

         Editors: Molecular Microbiology (Palmer 2009-2020); Fungal Biology (Rutherford
          2018); Microbiology (Strahl 2018-present); Ageing Cell (von-Zglinicki 2005-present);
          Microbial Genomes (Harwood 2016-2020); International Journal of Molecular Sciences,
          telomeres/telomerase editions (Saretzski 2016-present); Frontiers in Genetics (Hudson
          2018-present).
         Associate Editors: Genome Biology and Evolution (Embley 2011-2020); International
          Journal of Otolaryngology (Pearson 2015-present); BMC Biology (Saretzski 2009-
          present); PLOS One (Saretzski 2008-present); Oxidative Medicine and Longevity
          (Saretzski 2012-present).
         Special Issue Guest Editors: Cells, "NF-κB in Cancer" (Perkins 2019); Pflügers Archiv-
          European Journal of Physiology: Phosphate transport (Werner 2019); Parasitology,
          “Mucosal microbial eukaryotes in health and disease” (Hirt 2018); mBio (Hirt 2020);
          Antibiotics "Bacterial Cell Wall as Antimicrobial Target" (Vollmer 2015-2016); PLOS
          Genetics (Higgins 2014): Methods in Molecular Biology (Nicholls 2020-2021)
         18 Editorial Board memberships.

 4.3 Reproducibility

 NU is a member of the UK Reproducibility Network, consequently we are adopting procedures
 and approaches to maintain and improve experimental reproducibility. These include:

         Facility staff provide continuity of expertise and advise on best practice in data
          generation and analysis. Training on facility equipment and experimental design are first
          discussed to make sure factors such as using the most appropriate technology, data
          analysis software, statistical power, sample size and batch effects are considered. The
          Bioimaging Unit is driving a global project to standardise microscope quality control
          procedures, with the goal of improving reproducibility.
         Research Themes hold regular ‘Research in Progress’ talks from PGRs, RAs and
          technical staff. These allow early-stage feedback on research projects and advice on
          experimental design, aiding reproducibility.
         Experimental reproducibility will be promoted by the development of SIGs (1.4.2), which
          will embed a culture of best practice in data generation, annotation, analysis and
          presentation.

 Examples of papers from UoA5 investigators involving a significant component of reproducibility
 are:

         Use of telomere length is a biomarker of ageing, morbidity and mortality has been
          hampered by uncertainty regarding reproducibility between laboratories. To address this,
          von-Zglinicki directed and published the largest international study on reproducibility of
          telomere length assessment (IntJEpidemiol 2015).
         Strahl demonstrated that the fluorescent membrane dye nonyl acridine orange, which
          had been used for many years as a specific stain for cardiolipin, is not specific and that
          consequently B. subtilis does not form microscopically detectable cardiolipin-specific lipid
          domains (Microbiology2018).

Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         Higgins reported that the widely used DNA stain SiR-Hoechst induces DNA damage
          responses and impairs cell cycle progression, with important implications for the field
          when interpreting data from live cell imaging (SciRep2018).
         To reproduce the results of JBC2016, Salgado and Vollmer needed to create a new,
          different and reproducible assay. Consequently, they were able to experimentally confirm
          catalytic and zinc binding sites proposed in the original paper (MolMicro2018).
         Hudson assessed the techniques used to determine levels of mitochondrial
          heteroplasmy using next generation sequencing. This study concluded that many
          approaches did not take into account nuclear mitochondrial sequences, potentially
          resulting in misleading data (Mitochondrion2019).

 4.4 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

 4.4.1 Antibiotic Resistance
 UoA5 publications frequently address the urgent problem of antibiotic resistance. Moreover,
 UoA5 scientists are actively engaged in the search for new antibiotics (4.5.2). This is further
 evidenced by grant awards to Vollmer: MRC JPI AMR 1st Joint Call: Transnational call
 InnovaResistance: Innovative approaches to address antibacterial resistance (£317,881, 2015);
 Antimicrobial Resistance cross-council initiative, Collaborative Grant with Sheffield, Oxford and
 Southampton (£502,364, 2015); and Zenkin RCUK collaborative research grant ‘The Physics of
 Antimicrobial Resistance’ with Sheffield, Oxford, and Edinburgh (£640K, 2018).

 4.4.2 COVID-19 response
 Despite the challenges for laboratory-based researchers during the COVID-19 pandemic and
 associated lockdowns, several UoA5 staff were able to participate in local or national responses:

         Trost received a UKRI award (£302K) to develop mass spectrometry-based assays for
          COVID-19 screening (P1 moonshot lab for COVID-19).
         Reviewing and modifying experimental methods/SOPs and operations within FMS
          Infectious Diseases Facility to permit SARS-CoV-2 research (Khan).
         NU NHS Trust COVID-19 Support group (Trost, Higgins).
         Academic liaison to the Innovation Lab of Newcastle’s COVID-19 lighthouse laboratory
          (Trost).
         Member of UKRI-COVID-19 pool of experts (Trost).)
         GetPPE-NCL academic lead/ project co-ordinator. Dynamo North East UK “Not for
          Profit/Public Sector Project of the Year 2020” (Holden).

 4.5 Promoting future commercial and clinical impact

 4.5.1 Supporting future impact
 MRC Confidence in Concept funding is available through FMS to pump prime projects with
 potential future impact. Murray recently secured funding (£78k) through this scheme, with UoA1
 colleagues Hubbard, Simpson and Hardcastle, to create high-throughput platforms for
 identifying bacterial replication inhibitors with the potential to act as novel anti-bacterial
 compounds. Higgins received £66k funding to develop a novel assay to identify kinases
 upregulated in cancerous tissues, potentially aiding cancer diagnostics (based on UoA5 output:
 NatCommun2020; Patent: ‘Kinase Inhibitor Profiling to Identify Kinases’ (KiPIK)). In addition,

Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 funding is available through the Newcastle Wellcome Translational Partnership: Quinn and
 Hubbard (UoA1) have secured £10k to test whether currently available p38 kinase inhibitors
 target the homologous Hog1 SAPK in pathogenic fungi and so can be used as anti-fungal
 treatments.

 4.5.2 Examples of future impact
 New Antibiotics: Demuris (Errington) is a drug discovery company exploiting a unique
 collection of Actinomycete bacteria, which can manipulate the behaviour of surrounding
 organisms, including bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. Demuris recently partnered with the
 WCMR to identify and develop novel therapies to treat mitochondrial disease. In addition,
 Zenkin was awarded an MRC Industrial Collaborative Award (£613k, 2019) jointly with Demuris
 to investigate a novel mode of RNA polymerase inhibition.

 New therapies for patients suffering with mitochondrial disease. The WCMR (Lightowlers)
 also has screening projects with Novartis and Nestlé to assess large compound libraries for
 effects on mitochondrial function. The group are actively working with The Scripps Research
 Institute to perform structure-activity relationship studies on a lead compound.

 Novel Biomaterials: Polymers of Yersinia pestis protein Caf1 can be specifically engineered to
 contain motifs that stimulate the adherence, growth and proliferation of eukaryotic cells.
 Commercial and medical applications of this technology include wound healing and culturing
 stem cells. The process of developing this technology towards commercial application is funded
 by a £2.4million BBSRC/Innovate UK Catalyst Award. In addition to the lead PI, Lakey, this
 interdisciplinary team includes Perkins (UoA5), Reynolds (UoA1), Fulton (UoA8) and German
 (UoA3). Relevant UoA5 output: Chem2020; Patent: ‘Recombinant polypeptide’.

 Senolytic compounds: von-Zglinicki has pioneered the use of senolytic drugs that clear
 unhealthy senescent cells for therapeutic purposes. The group recently completed a Knowledge
 Transfer Partnership with Nuchido to identify and develop senolytic compounds with anti-ageing
 effects. Relevant UoA5 outputs: NatCommun2017; CellMetab2019.

 Novel foods: Aelius Biotech is a contract research company whose ‘Integrated Model Gut
 System’ can be used to test drug delivery and absorption, functional foods and study pre- and
 pro-biotics. This model allowed Pearson to discover that specific alginates inhibit pancreatic
 lipase and could be used to control weight by reducing absorption of dietary fat. A weight loss
 trial, funded through Northern Accelerator, is currently ongoing. UoA5 output:
 FoodChemistry2014; Patent: ‘Model Gut System’.

 Commercialisation of novel glycoenzymes: Bolam and colleagues discovered novel
 glycoenzymes used by the gut microbiota to degrade and metabolise glycans, on an IB Catalyst
 ‘Glycoenzymes for Bioindustries’ project (with collaborators in Norwich, Manchester, Cardiff and
 Ludger, a bioscience company specialising in medical applications of glycobiology). Four
 glycoenzymes are currently licenced to Ludger for commercial evaluation and Bolam is providing
 expertise in enzyme characteristics and production to Ludger and their manufacturing partner,
 Prozomix (Relevant UoA5 output: NatMicrobiol2019).



Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4.6 Prizes, honours, prestigious lectures and guest positions

 The high standing of many UoA5 researchers in the scientific community is evidenced by
 numerous honours and awards:

         Gilbert (2016), Palmer (2018), Embley (2019) were elected as Fellows of the Royal
          Society.
         Palmer (2015), Errington (2015), Embley (2016), Vollmer (2018) were elected as
          Fellows of the European Academy of Microbiology.
         Vollmer (2014), Palmer (2015), Lewis (2017) were elected as Fellows of the American
          Academy of Microbiology.
         Errington: BBSRC 20th Anniversary Medal and Prize for Excellence in Bioscience
          (2014); UK Biomedical Society Novartis Medal and Prize (2014); Leeuwenhoek Lecture
          Medal & Prize of the Royal Society (2014); UK Academy of Medical Sciences Jean
          Shanks Lecture (2015); Federation of European Microbiological Societies Lwoff Medal &
          Prize (2017); CBM, Madrid 12th Memorial Lecture "David Vazquez” (2017); l’Institut de
          Biologie Physico-Chimique, Edmond de Rothschild Lecture (2018).
         Palmer: EMBO, Elected member (2017); Gordon Research Conference, EMBO Keynote
          lecture (2019); Lorne Protein Conference, EMBO Keynote Lecture (2020).
         Von-Zglinicki: British Society for Research on Ageing, Lord Cohen Medal (2017); St
          Georges, University of London, Thomas Young Prize (2018)
         Zenkin: Society for General Microbiology, Fleming Prize Lecture (2014); Leverhulme
          Trust, Philip Leverhulme Prize (2014).
         Waldron: International Copper Meeting, Arturo Leone Young Investigator Award (2018).
         Quinn: British Mycological Society: President Elect (2020).
         Harwood: Microbiology Society, Honorary Membership (2016).
         Visiting Professorships: University of Cagliari, Vollmer (2015); Chemistry Department,
          University of Oxford, Errington (2018); Nanjing Agricultural University, Waldron (2019);
          Henan People’s Hospital, Palmer (2019); Nanjing University, Korolchuk (2020).

 4.7 Public Engagement

 UoA5 scientists helped organise Soapbox Science Newcastle (Salgado 2015-2017) and
 presented at this event (Lowe 2015, Quinn 2017). They have also presented at ‘Pint of Science’
 (Quinn 2018), ‘Palace of Science’ (Salgado 2020, online) and ‘Women in STEM’ (Salgado
 2020). Salgado was also a member of the Executive Committee of “Science is Vital” (2011-
 2015), participated in outreach activities organised by Diamond Light Source (2010-present) and
 was a featured scientist in the "Illuminating Atoms" exhibition for the International Year of
 Crystallography (2014). Aldridge, Perkins, Salgado, Waldron all coordinated the ICaMB blog
 and other social media (2012-2019). Madgwick participated (2019) in ‘The Cell Detectives’,
 organised by our scientific facilities this allows members of the public to interact with research
 tools to see the inner working of the cell.

 We frequently engage with local schools and provide opportunities for work experience
 placements. Between 2015 and 2019, ICaMB hosted 57 school students on work experience
 placements. In addition, from 2015 to 2018, Perkins hosted visits from pupils at St John’s
 Catholic School and Sixth Form College, Bishop Auckland. In 2018, Perkins spoke about his
Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research at Durham Sixth Form College in a ‘Careers in Cancer Research’ event organised by
 the charity Worldwide Cancer Research.

 UoA5 scientists engage with local artists and museums. From 2015 CBCB scientists have
 collaborated with local artist Derek Hill to create the event ‘Art in Science’. Hirt has participated
 in events at the Great North Museum: “Planet 2.0” (2018) and "Worldwide Webs" (2019).
 Yuzenkova used work from her group in an art exhibition at the Hancock Museum (2020).
 Quinn presented ‘Killer Fungus’ at the Royal Society Summer Exhibition (2016).

 These activities are supported by VOICE, (Valuing Our Intellectual Capital and Experience), our
 public engagement network and associated online digital platform. Established in 2007, VOICE
 has grown significantly with national and international reach and now sustains a network of
 thousands of engaged “research-active citizens”, supporting thousands of research projects.
 This is complemented by our ‘Training Matters’ programme that has delivered 60+ sessions,
 providing 400+ researchers with a range of engagement skills such as effective science
 communication and supporting them to develop robust public engagement plans. FMS scientists
 have used this training at Wellcome ISSF-funded ‘Research Matters’ events (50+ events
 engaging over 2500 attendees).




Page 28
