Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: D28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context and Structure
Research in History at Chester spans sixteen centuries from the fifth to the twentieth. It is distinctive
in combining this chronological range with a broad geographical coverage including Britain and
Ireland, Continental Europe, and America, and in pursuing interdisciplinary approaches.

Research is located within the Department of History and Archaeology, encouraging interdisciplinary
cross-fertilisation. This is part of a vibrant research community within the School of Humanities and
the Faculty of Arts, Media and Humanities. Research activities occur across the School through
interconnections with the Departments of English, Theology and Religious Studies, and Modern
Languages, including via the Institute for Gender Studies. They reach out across the University
through cooperation with Computer Science, Education and Children’s Services, and Music, Media
and Performance and impacts on the undergraduate and postgraduate student experience.

To facilitate collaborations and shape expansion, History and Archaeology researchers are
organized into three overlapping Research Clusters representing key areas of expertise – (1) Giving
Voice: Diverse Narratives of People, Places, and Objects; (2) Memory and Mortality: Death, Burial
and Commemoration; and (3) People and Place: Past Landscapes and Environments. Echoing the
University’s Foundational Value to recognise ‘the dignity and worth of every individual’ these
investigate histories of underrepresented social, racial, and ethnic groups through texts, material
culture, and place. They underpin strategic planning for sustainable expansion of the research
environment, through increased staffing, through recruitment of graduate students, and through
funding applications. They support third sector collaborations, and impact and engagement activities.

Reflecting the University’s recognition of the vitality of History, its commitment to a sustainable
culture of History research, and its strategy to create a new research environment at Shrewsbury,
the team has grown from 8 FTE staff in 2014 to 11 FTE staff in 2020, including 2 staff based partly
at University Centre Shrewsbury. Careful recruitment has maintained our chronological depth, from
medieval (Pickles, Wilson) to early modern (Harry, Gaunt, Worton) to modern (Andrew, Critchell,
Ewence, Grady, Jackson, Jenkins), and our geographical breadth, from Britain and Ireland (Andrew,
Critchell, Ewence, Harry, Gaunt, Jenkins, Pickles, Worton) to Continental Europe (Grady, Wilson)
and America (Jackson). It has been guided by a concern for equality and diversity amongst the staff,
resulting in a positive gender ratio (5F : 6M) and a balance including 6 early career researchers
(Andrew, Critchell, Ewence, Harry, Wilson, Worton) 2 mid career researchers (Grady, Pickles), and
3 senior researchers (Gaunt, Jackson, Jenkins).

1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

Implementation of REF 2014 Objectives

Our Research Strategy from 2014 established five priorities:
   1. To develop interdisciplinary research projects
   2. To support colleagues to produce high-quality research outputs
   3. To submit more grant applications and increase grant capture
   4. To expand our expertise in impact and public engagement
   5. To increase the size and scope of post-graduate study

To pursue these, we created three Research Clusters (Section 1.1) through which historians and
archaeologists could collaborate.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2.1 Interdisciplinary Research Projects
To facilitate the creation of sustainable interdisciplinary research projects, we used the Research
Clusters to encourage collaboration at our annual Research Away Day, at termly Research Group
Meetings, and through our new MA programmes (Section 1.2.5). This resulted in three collaborative
interdisciplinary research projects, each with a successful grant application, an international
research network, research outputs, an inter-departmental collaboration, third sector collaborations,
and sustained impact and public engagement activities. These are:
    • Diverse Narratives [PIs Ewence, Grady; AHRC, Heritage Lottery Fund]
    • Early Christian Churches and Landscapes (ECCLES) [PI Pickles; AHRC]
    • Mobility of Objects Across Boundaries (MOB) [PI Wilson; AHRC]
Further details may be found in our Impact Case Studies and Sections 3.1.3 and 4.1.

1.2.2. Research Outputs
Recognising their prestige within History research and their importance for career progression, we
supported the production of more monographs and peer-reviewed journal articles. This was framed
by the University’s commitment to the Equality Act 2010, reflected in its Athena Swan Bronze and
Gender Equality Charter Mark Bronze awards, particularly in relation to age, gender, pregnancy and
maternity. It was pursued with reference to the University’s Equality Policy and Staff Performance
and Development Planning Policy. The Research Clusters and associated Research Meetings
provided a focus for mentoring, and our annual Research Review meetings and Research Leave
Scheme presented a mechanism for tailoring prioritised support to particular individuals with needs
relating to gender, career stage, and caring responsibilities. Our senior and mid-career researchers
(Gaunt, Grady, Jackson, Jenkins, Pickles) shared practical advice with early career appointments
(Andrew, Critchell, Ewence, Harry, Hickman, Hillman, Wilson, Worton) about sustaining research
and writing throughout the teaching year. Three early career researchers (Ewence, Hillman, Wilson)
pioneered a new Faculty of Arts and Humanities Early Career Researcher Network, including a
Writers Gym for cooperative writing. Our competitive Research Leave Scheme used QR money to
support half-yearly research leave for two history researchers with clear strategies for producing
outputs as monographs and articles in international peer-reviewed journals. It was judged with an
eye to the constraints, demands, and objectives of researchers at different stages in their careers.
This resulted in a direct correlation between Research Leave and Outputs: researchers at all stages
of their career used periods of leave to complete monographs (Ewence, Gaunt, Grady, Harry,
Jackson, Pickles, Wilson) as well as peer-reviewed articles in international journals (Andrew,
Ewence, Grady, Hickman, Hillman, Wilson). The result is that, while for REF 2014 only 6 of 8 FTE
staff were entered with 2 single-authored books, for REF 2020 all 11 FTE staff are entered with 9
single-authored books, and the majority of the remaining REF 2020 outputs are peer-reviewed
journal articles. Demonstrating our concern to contribute to discourses on equality and diversity,
many of these outputs investigate histories of underrepresented social, racial, and ethnic groups –
they give agency for religious change to free peasant households (Pickles), locate economic and
cultural change in the uncertainties faced by workers and traders (Wilson), explore the experiences
and contributions of ethnic minorities (Critchell, Ewence, Grady), investigate the impact of diplomatic
policy on former colonies (Jackson), and focus on neglected regions (Worton) or marginalised age
groups (Andrew). This has been recognized as world leading research in the shortlisting of a
monograph for two major international prizes (Grady - Wolfson History Prize 2018 and the Cundill
History Prize 2018), the selection of an article for Gold Open Access in a major international journal
(Wilson – Social History), and through markers of esteem (Section 4).

1.2.3. Grant Applications
To enhance our reputation for world leading research and improve our external grant capture we
used the Research Clusters to support collaboration in the writing of research grant applications,
which were timely, appropriate to the project, and matched to career stage. A new Faculty database
of grants and grant applications and new Faculty Research Events facilitated the sharing of
knowledge about successful grants (Section 3.2.2). Within the Research Cluster Giving Voice, a mid
career researcher (Grady) collaborated with an early career researcher (Ewence) to capitalise on
the anniversary of World War I and their combined expertise in Britain, Germany, and minorities:
they obtained an AHRC grant to study the wartime experiences of minorities in Cheshire, and further
matching Heritage Lottery Funding. Within the Research Cluster People and Place two researchers

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Pickles, Wilson) collaborated to write successful applications for AHRC Research Network funding
to establish the first stages of international interdisciplinary networks. The success of this approach
may be measured by the extraordinary increase in the scale and variety of our external funding – a
one hundredfold rise from £3 290 for REF 2014 to £312 259 for REF 2021 (Section 3.1.3-4).

1.2.4 Research Impact and Engagement
To ensure coherent and sustainable impact and engagement, we used our Research Clusters as a
basis for activities. First, we developed four impact strands relating to our Research Clusters and
based on the work of more than one member of the Department. Two of these provided narratives
for REF 2021, precedents for on-going future work, and models for ensuring reach and success:
within Giving Voice there is the Diverse Narratives project and within People and Place there is the
Landscapes, Gardens and Public Health project. Two more established projects to grow through the
next REF cycle building on these precedents and models: within People and Place these are the
ECCLES and MOB projects (Section 4.1). Second, we acquired new expertise. Early in this REF
cycle we appointed a researcher with experience in writing grant applications and managing impact
projects for other universities (Hickman) who consulted on the design and assessment of our impact
activities. Third, through the Diverse Narratives project two historians (Ewence, Grady) constructed
an interdisciplinary collaboration model with Education and Children’s Services so that our on-going
impact strands can work with History PGCE students training at Chester to develop and utilise
resources for teachers. This has been developed by the MOB project (Wilson) and will be expanded
in the next REF cycle by the ECCLES project (Pickles).

1.2.5 Research-Led Teaching
To create a more sustainable relationship between our research expertise and our teaching, we used
our Research Clusters to redesign the Undergraduate and Graduate Programmes. First, we
restructured our second year to include a new 20 Credit team-taught module, Journeys in the Past,
enabling staff to introduce students to research in their area and requiring students to write a
research proposal. Second, we devised new 40 Credit Approaches to History optional modules
based on staff research. Third, we required students to align their third year dissertation topics to
our Research Clusters. Fourth, we designed a new MA Programme including a joint History and
Archaeology MA reflecting the People and Place cluster, called Past Landscapes and Environments,
as well as a new History MA reflecting the Diverse Narratives cluster, called War, Conflict and
Society. The effectiveness of this strategy may be seen in various ways. Based on the projected
teaching requirements and expanded graduate numbers of Past Landscapes and Environments we
secured two new full-time appointments (Andrew, Hickman). Since this restructuring, we have
sustained recruitment on all three MA programmes including increased retention of our own
undergraduates. This has enabled us to retain a vibrant graduate research environment, award an
increased number of successful PhDs, and maintain our annual Departmental and Faculty Graduate
conferences and online Graduate journal (all Section 2.2). Through teaching modules more closely
aligned to their research, staff have matched the overall number of outputs produced by REF 2014
while increasing the quality (9 single-authored books, 9 journal articles, 5 edited volumes, and 20
book chapters). Co-teaching on the MA in Past Landscapes and Environments has resulted in
historians and archaeologists collaborating in public engagement for the Being Human Festival
(Sections 3.1, 4.2) and historians collaborating with third sector organisations including the Village
Trust at Port Sunlight (Andrew, Hickman) (Section 4.2).

Future Objectives Beyond REF 2021

Over the next five years we will maintain these approaches and build on our successes through an
increased research focus on Chester as a local-global city from the Roman period to the twenty-first
century. Throughout its history, Chester has been a major city with international connections, but
this is insufficiently recognised and the diversity of Chester’s population and networks is
underappreciated. Work for our interdisciplinary research projects – Diverse Narratives, MOB and
ECCLES – highlighted the untapped potential of Chester’s archival sources and museum collections
as well as the missed opportunity for collaboration between the Cheshire Archives and Local Studies,
the Grosvenor Museum, the Cathedral, St John’s Church, and many local and regional societies. It
has also identified the need for us to engage with these under-resourced organizations.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

To pursue this aim we will exploit the University’s new ‘Citizen Student’ strategy. This envisages four
core themes – Health and Wellbeing, Culture and Society, Sustainability and the Environment, and
Regional Economy – through which research and teaching will be drawn together across the
institution, forging research, teaching, engagement, and impact collaborations between Faculties
and Departments.

A first stage will be to present this vision of Chester and its interconnections with these four core
themes to develop further collaborations across the University, building on our experiences of
working with the Departments of Computer Sciences, Education and Children’s Services, and Media.

A second stage will be to bring these collaborators together with representatives and stakeholders
from Cheshire Archives and Local Studies, the Grosvenor Museum, the Cathedral, St John’s Church,
and other potential third sector collaborators, to build connections and explore possibilities.

A third stage will be to exploit curriculum reform to align our undergraduate and graduate
programmes with our research focus and the ‘Citizen Student’ strategy, through which students will
play an active part in research, collaborations, and events.

A fourth stage will be to exploit the University’s new Chester Grant Support Initiative to help identify
funding sources and produce grant applications. This will facilitate the writing of major grant
applications, essential to the development of our research culture. They will underpin even more
sustainable interdisciplinary and third sector collaborations with even more innovative impact
strands. They will build on the track record of those members of staff who have secured Research
Network Grants and provide an opportunity for them to manage higher levels of research income
and more complex research teams. They will provide early career staff with an opportunity to
collaborate in grant writing. They will present the opportunity to recruit post-doctoral researchers.
They will facilitate the identification of research projects to attract more post-graduate researchers.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy and Development

2.1.1 Staffing, Gender and Age Structures
Since REF 2014 we have used our objectives to sustain our chronological range and geographical
coverage and our interdisciplinary Research Clusters to inform our staffing strategies (above Section
1). McLay, a seventeenth-century British historian, was replaced by Hillman, a sixteenth-century
European historian with extra-European interests, now replaced by Harry, a sixteenth-century British
historian with European interests, to address a chronological gap and add to our Giving Voice cluster.
Huggins, a nineteenth-century British historian, was replaced by Critchell, a twentieth-century British
historian, and collaborator for Ewence and Grady on the history of minorities. Andrew and Hickman
(now Newcastle) were new thematic appointments in landscape history to expand the People and
Place cluster. Jenkins and Worton were additional early modern and modern specialists with military
history expertise for the MA in Military History at Shrewsbury. Appointments have been framed by
the University’s commitment to the Equality Act, reflected in its Athena Swan Bronze and Gender
Equality Charter Mark Bronze awards. We have a female Head of Department and a positive gender
ratio (5F : 6M); and we now have 3 senior career researchers (Gaunt, Jackson, Jenkins), 2 mid
career researchers (Grady, Pickles), and 6 early career researchers (Andrew, Critchell, Ewence,
Harry, Wilson, Worton).

2.1.2 Research Staff Management
Research is line-managed by the Director of the School of Humanities and the Head of Department.
The Director chairs our termly Faculty Research Advisory Group comprising Research Coordinators
from History, Archaeology, Theology and Religious Studies, English Languages and Literature,
Modern Languages, Art and Design, and Music, Media and Performance. Applying the University’s
Staff Performance and Development Planning Policy, the Head of Department oversees our annual
Personal Development Plan (PDP) process: she meets with individual staff members to review

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
achievements and set objectives. The History researchers are led by two Research Coordinators
(Grady, Pickles): they chair an annual Research Away Day, hold Annual Research Meetings with
individuals, and organize termly Research Events focused on strategic issues. The effectiveness of
these structures is visible in several ways. The annual Research Away Days produced our
Departmental research strategy, our new Research Clusters, and our decision to use the People
and Place cluster to create the new MA in Past Landscapes and Environments. Through the Annual
Research Meetings the Research Coordinators have identified and addressed strategic issues
through Research Events and have brought researchers together to collaborate. At Departmental
workshops staff have exchanged experiences and ideas on balancing demands of teaching with
writing on longer projects, and on devising projects and writing grant applications. Individual
researchers have identified potential to work with others – Pickles used his experience of applying
for and managing an AHRC Research Network Grant to help Wilson write a successful grant for the
same scheme; Wilson brought together Hillman and Pickles to launch the project at the European
Social Sciences History Conference in Valencia; Hickman used her experience of applying for
Wellcome Trust grants in the medical humanities to help Hillman acquire funding to research saints
and miracles. Researchers have peer-reviewed each other’s work for submission to international
peer-reviewed journals and assisted in addressing peer-review comments (Pickles for Grady
[Journal of British Studies], Grady for Hickman [Eighteenth Century Studies], Grady and Pickles for
Ewence [Immigrants and Minorities], Pickles for Wilson [Social History], and Hickman for Andrew
[Journal of Tourism History]).

2.1.3 Research Staff Support and Promotions
These structures govern the strategic deployment of Research Funding. REF 2014 QR funds have
supported periods of competitive Research Leave and funded teaching relief for all History
researchers. Two members of the History research team are supported for a six-month period of
Research Leave each academic year. Following new University procedures, a formal application is
made to the Head of School and Head of Department. This has enabled us to ensure the quality and
timeliness of research outputs and activities, which has produced tangible results in our increased
number of monographs (Section 1.2.2), our increased grant capture (Section 1.2.3, Section 3), and
our increased recognition for world leading research (Section 4). This has also helped to provide
tailored support for researchers facing different circumstances relating to caring responsibilities and
career stage (below and Section 2.3). All History researchers are funded one day of teaching relief
each week to support on-going research, impact, and engagement activities. These structures
support History researchers in those research elements required for promotion applications: our
Head of Department mentored Grady for promotion from Senior Lecturer to Reader and Professor;
Grady in turn mentored Ewence, Hickman, Pickles, and Wilson for promotion from Lecturer to Senior
Lecturer.

2.1.4 Research Staff Collaborations
History researchers are encouraged to participate in University and Faculty interdisciplinary research
events. At the annual University Staff Conference and University Research Festival, staff have
participated in events on the Digital Humanities (Grady, Pickles, Wilson) and Research-Led
Teaching (Pickles, Wilson). At the termly Faculty Research Workshops, staff have participated in
events on devising projects and writing grant applications (Pickles). History researchers have
thereby identified collaborators in Education and Children’s Services (Ewence and Grady for the
Diverse Narratives project, picked up by Wilson for the MOB project and Pickles for the ECCLES
projects), in Computer Science (Pickles for the ECCLES project and Wilson for the MOB project),
and in Music, Media and Performance (Wilson for the MOB project) – Section 4.1.

2.1.5 Early Career Research Support
Since REF 2014 the History team has included a higher number of early career researchers, some
on full-time open-contracts (Andrew, Ewence, Harry, Hickman, Hillman, Wilson, Worton) and others
on part-time fixed-term contracts on funded projects (Van Horssen, Nugent). The University’s
Research Governance Handbook guided the recruitment and inclusive management of those on
funded projects. All early career researchers are invited to participate in the Faculty Early Career
Researchers Network, led at points by two historians (Hillman, Wilson); this includes the Faculty
Writers Gym, which two Historians used to complete monographs and journal articles (Ewence,

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Hillman). All staff on FTE equivalent contracts have annual research meetings to support their
development: Harry was initially employed as a one-year maternity replacement, but through this
system we identified his research potential, supported him through Visiting Lecturer status after the
end of that contract to complete further research outputs, and helped him to apply with Murrieta-
Flores and Nugent for research funding from the Paul Mellon Trust; thus when Hillman departed, he
beat an exceptional field of applicants to the job (c. 80 applications, 20 long-listed, 7 short-listed).
Two staff were appointed while still completing Post-Doctoral Research Fellowships and were
supported to fulfil the terms of their fellowship before taking on teaching and administrative roles
(Hickman and Hillman). To enable Hickman to write up research from her Fellowship she was
awarded a further period of Research Leave and encouraged to apply for matching funds. To help
balance research with teaching and administration, early career researchers are provided with a
lighter teaching load and allowed to build up a full suite of Undergraduate and Graduate teaching
modules during their first three years. They are required to participate in the University’s PG CERT
qualification or apply direct for Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy: Andrew, Ewence,
Hickman, and Hillman all successfully graduated with the PG CERT and Harry and Wilson applied
directly for HEA Fellowship. To assist them in devising projects with impact and public engagement
strands, early career researchers are invited to apply for an annual Faculty Early Career Award of
up to £2000: this was won by both Hillman and Wilson. To allow them to build a full range of research
experience, the PDP process and annual research meetings are used to address gaps in experience:
as Pickles crossed the threshold from early to mid career researcher, he was teamed up with Grady,
who coordinated REF 2014, as joint Research Coordinator; so too Grady worked with Ewence to
write grant applications for the Diverse Narratives project; and our John Doran Scholarships
(Sections 2.2.2, 3.1.1) were used to give an early career researcher the opportunity to co-supervise
a doctoral student (Ewence, with Grady). To recognise and reward early career research, the
University instituted an Outstanding Early Career Researcher REF Award, which was won by Pickles
and funded resources for a future project. Early career researchers on part-time fixed-term contracts
are mentored by the Principal Investigator to provide the training and experience to help them to the
next level of their career: this resulted in two research assistants moving on to academic roles at
other Universities (Van Horssen, Diverse Narratives [Senior Lecturer, Leeds Beckett]; Nugent,
ECCLES [Researcher, Lancaster; Research Office, Liverpool; UKRI Early Career Leadership Award,
Liverpool]).

2.2 Post-Graduate Research (PGR) Training and Supervision

2.2.1 PGR Management
History PGR students at Chester are administered by the University’s Registry Services and
overseen by a Faculty and Departmental PGR Tutor, the History MA and MRes Programme Leader,
and individual Research Supervisors. PGR students have a two-way representation structure, the
PGR Forum: this enables PGR representatives to sit on the University and Faculty Research
Committees. All PGR students experience a standard PGR Review Process: a series of timetabled
meetings including a Chair, the Supervisor, and the Student, to evaluate both supervision and
student progress at set milestones; this gives supervisor and supervisee an opportunity to comment
independently on their experiences. Thanks to these structures we have almost trebled our award
rate for research degrees (from 3 in 2014 to 8.4 in 2021), including all submissions on time, no
failures, and most passes with minor corrections.

2.2.2 PGR Funding
To encourage our own students – who are often the first in their family to attend University – to
continue to post-graduate study, they receive a reduced fee on Post-Graduate courses. In
recognition that many PGR students are taking out loans and working alongside their degrees, we
encourage part-time study and our support structures mean that part time students have been as
successful as full-time students – notable examples include Chadwick, Greatorex Roskilly, Jones,
and Swallow. All students are encouraged to apply for a Faculty Fees Bursary to provide further
financial support. After the untimely death of a member of the Department, the University honoured
his name through the creation of three John Doran Memorial Scholarships: our three John Doran
Scholars (Copley, Dawson, Duckers) were recruited through open applications and received a full
fees and maintenance grant.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.2.3 PGR Support and Training
All History PGR supervisors and students complete a University and Departmental induction and
training course. Supervisors are introduced to the University’s policies, procedures, and resources,
and engage in teamwork with supervisors from other disciplines to address hypothetical scenarios.
Students complete a skills audit to identify their strengths and weaknesses and access a series of
workshops aligned with the Research Development Framework. All students are encouraged to
undertake the Learning and Teaching Institute’s training programme and complete modules leading
to Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. To facilitate this, they are offered
experience as Visiting Lecturers, particularly at the first year of the Undergraduate History
Programme. The effectiveness of this may be seen in Worton’s progress from doctoral student and
Visiting Lecturer to full-time appointment in the Department and the continuing work of former
doctoral students as Visiting Lecturers (Chadwick, Poole, Swallow).

2.2.4 PGR Research Community
Several research activities encourage History researchers and PGR students to research together.
There are annual University, Faculty, and Departmental PGR Research Conferences. The
Departmental PGR Research Conference is convened by the PGR students, who identify a Keynote
Speaker and a theme, and write papers for our online open access PGR journal Context
(http://www.chester.ac.uk/node/24440). This has supplied a route for some PGR students to develop
publishing experience and build to publication in peer-reviewed print journals (Abbiss, Greatorex
Roskilly, Swallow). Departmental funds are available to support further skills training (Copley was
funded to complete a Keele University course in Latin) and conference participation or attendance
(Copley received money to attend conferences in Oxford and Spain). PGR Students are fully
integrated into our History research culture, attending and presenting at the Departmental Research
Seminars, participating in our Research Workshops, and consulting on the design of projects and
writing of grants (Copley consulted with Pickles on the writing of the ECCLES AHRC application).
Moreover, they reach out to engage with other regional institutions, through the M6 Medieval
Seminar, bringing together staff and PGR students from Bangor, Chester, Keele, Lancaster,
Liverpool, and Manchester, and through co-organized reading groups (Copley co-organized a
Reading Group with Manchester students).

2.2.5 PGR Trajectories
The results of this research training environment may be seen in the career trajectories of our
undergraduate and graduate students. Former undergraduate students who produced outstanding
dissertations have received MA and PhD scholarships at York (Georgina Briggs, Richard III
Scholarship; Sarah Hinds, MA Scholarship and White Rose PhD Scholarship; Tamera Carrington,
Centre for Medieval Studies York MA Scholarship) and Kings College London (Rhian Wyn-Jones,
MA Scholarship and AHRC PhD Scholarship). Beyond academic careers, former PhD students have
established successful careers in the publishing sector (Greatorex Roskilly), heritage sector (Abbiss,
Copley), and in university administration (Chadwick).

2.3 Equality and Diversity
Thanks to our positive gender balance and mix of career stages amongst the History researchers
(Section 2.1.1), as well as our concern for recovering the histories of underrepresented social, racial,
and ethnic groups, the Department has a strong sense of its responsibilities for equality and diversity.

The Department is guided by the University’s commitment to the Equality Act, reflected in its Athena
Swan Bronze and Gender Equality Charter Bronze awards. Staff are encouraged to participate in
the University Diversity Festival and its special interest groups, including the Disabled Staff Group
and Parents’ Network, as well as in the University and Faculty Gender and Research Events and
Women’s Day Events. Many members of the History team have become parents and carers for
young children over this REF cycle (Andrew, Ewence, Grady, Harry, Pickles, Wilson). To confront
the impact of this on career progression, the Department has pursued new initiatives. Following the
University’s Allocation of Workloads Policy, it has applied a transparent Workload Allocation Model,
so staff can see how equality and diversity needs are addressed. Following the University’s Family
Leave Guidance, Time off for Dependents Policy, and Policy on Requesting Flexible Working, it has

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recognized parental and caring responsibilities through flexible scheduling: staff make timetabling
requests for teaching between set hours; staff meetings and History Departmental Research
Seminars are organised within those established hours. Following the University’s Time Off in Lieu
Policy, the impact of evening and weekend events on caring responsibilities has been
acknowledged: these have been minimised and staff have been encouraged to take leave in lieu. To
mitigate the impact of parental leave on research progression, the lost time and unsupported
research completed on parental leave has been recognised by encouraging applications for research
leave soon after return to work: after returning from parental leave Andrew, Ewence, Harry, Pickles,
and Wilson were all awarded research leave.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income

3.1.1 Internal Research Funding
History researchers draw on a range of internal research funding. The University’s Research and
Knowledge Transfer (RKT) office administers substantial annual research funds. The Knowledge
Transfer Funding scheme provides £200 000 for developing contract research activities,
consultancy, Intellectual Property rights, Continuing Professional Development collaborations, new
products, and industrial studentships: Wilson has collaborated with Computer Sciences to obtain
£60 000 over three years (2020-2023) to develop a museum database framework. Top-sliced QR
income is used for QR Research Grants directed towards University priorities and for Research Staff
Conference Attendance Grants of up to £500. Through the Santander Universities Agreement there
are International Research Excellence Awards of up to £5000 for bringing Visiting Research Fellows
to Chester and up to £1000 for supporting archival research: Jackson has obtained funds for her
archival work in America. The PGR Fee Discount scheme offers £2000 per student based on
academic merit and supervisory capacity. The annual Faculty Research Fund invites all academic
staff to apply competitively for Research Grants of up to £1000 and early career researchers for up
to £2000. The majority of the QR funding is returned to the Department for History and Archaeology:
this is used to support the Department Research Leave Scheme, a teaching buyout for research
staff to protect one day per week, Research Expenses of £400 each, and Impact Pump Priming
Funds of up to £2000. After the untimely death of Dr John Doran, the University established an
extraordinary funding scheme in his memory – the John Doran Memorial Scholarships – to provide
three PGR Students with full fees and maintenance grants for doctoral projects. In total since REF
2014 the Department has successfully applied for over £90 000 of Internal Funding for projects,
archival research, and conference presentations.

3.1.2 External Research Fellowships
Using our new Research Clusters to reshape the Undergraduate and Graduate Programmes for
research-led teaching and to inform our staff recruitment decisions (Section 1), we recruited two new
members of staff who brought existing external research fellowship funding to the Department:
Hillman transferred to Chester her British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship funds (2014-2018); and
Hickman transferred to Chester her Wellcome Trust Postdoctoral Fellowship funds (2016-2018).

3.1.3 External Project Funding
Exploiting Faculty and Departmental funds, several staff members have collaborated to build funding
track records and secure more substantial External Funding for Collaborative Projects. To enable
Ewence and Grady to benefit from the timeliness of their research interests in the context of the
World War I centenary, the Department and the Royal Historical Society supported an international
conference resulting in an edited volume and the recruitment of a Research Assistant (Van Horssen)
to begin establishing an impact narrative, from which they built to successful applications to the
AHRC for WWI Public Engagement and the Heritage Lottery Fund (2014-2018). To establish the
ECCLES Research Network, Pickles obtained a Faculty Fund grant to support travel to Bangor,
Cork, Edinburgh, and Dijon: this was the foundation for his successful AHRC Research Network
Grant (2016-2018). Together, Hillman, Pickles, and Wilson used joint applications for Faculty Funds
to establish Wilson’s MOB Research Network through a session at the European Social Science


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
History Conference in Valencia, which was the foundation for her successful AHRC Research
Network Grant (2017-2019).

3.1.4 External Small Grants
By cooperating to target the full range of potential funding sources individual researchers have
successfully applied for External Small Grants to support individual research. To facilitate her public
engagement projects on the Linden Groves Sensory Experiences and the Mental Health History of
Hospital Gardens, Hickman obtained a Finnis Scott Foundation small grant of £6800 and then a
Wellcome Trust People Award of £30 000 (2016-2018). To support her archival work for a new
project on Spiritual Biographies and Healing, Hillman acquired a Wellcome Trust small grant of £11
783 and a Royal Historical Society grant for a workshop on Pilgrimage worth £360. To pursue
archival work for her Brepols monograph, Wilson received £2240 from the Pasold Research Fund.
To engage in archival research for his monograph on medieval London, Harry was awarded £5000
by the Yorkist Trust. Seeking to raise the international and national reputation of the History
researchers, Hillman, Pickles, and Wilson applied to host the Royal Historical Society Symposium
2017 supported by a grant of £1461. To fund public engagement work with the Storyhouse Chester,
Andrew and Hickman received a Being Human Festival grant of £733.21 (2018-2019).

Over the period we have thereby secured a hundredfold increase in HEI registered grant capture
from £3920 by REF 2014 to £312 259 by REF 2021, averaging £41 436 per annum and £3767 per
FTE staff member, and including significant funds from all available funding categories.

3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

3.2.1 University Research Infrastructure
The cornerstone of History research is the University’s Research and Knowledge Transfer
Department: a team of 15 staff provides infrastructural support in the distribution of research funds,
the writing and management of research grants, the setting up of third sector collaborations, and the
dissemination of research. The Department’s grant capture has been achieved through a close
relationship with particular members of staff to create a sustainable and collaborative knowledge
base for grant applications: Ewence, Grady, Harry, Hickman, Hillman, Pickles, and Wilson all worked
closely with Rachel Ward (RKT) on successive History applications, utilising the RKT database of
previous successful Chester bids, and built on this link through Sarah Hinds (RKT), a Chester History
graduate on a part-time Medieval History PhD scholarship at York.

3.2.2 Faculty and School Research Infrastructure
Infrastructure at a Faculty and School level directly shapes the research strategy in the Department.
The Faculty Research Advisory Group is chaired by the Director of the School of Humanities: our
two History Research Coordinators (Grady, Pickles) attend termly meetings, through which the
Faculty and Departmental Research Strategies have been formulated, the Faculty Research Grant
Database has been established, and the Faculty Research Events have been organized. To
encourage interdisciplinary research across the School it supports the Institute for Gender Studies
with its own physical space, staffing, MA Programme, seminar series, and annual international
conferences. To assist staff across the School in devising projects and writing grant applications, it
supported a Digital Humanities Researcher (Murrieta-Flores, now Co-Director of Digital Humanities
at Lancaster) on a fixed-term full-time contract: she applied for a successful grant including Harry
between his fixed-term contract and his full-time open contract; she helped Pickles, and Wilson to
devise and write up the Digital Humanities aspects of their successful AHRC Research Network
Grant applications, and assisted Andrew and Hickman on a third sector collaboration with the Village
Trust Port Sunlight and their public engagement projects for the Being Human Festival at Chester
Storyhouse (Sections 4.1-2).

3.2.3 University IT Facilities
The University’s Learning and Information Services (LIS) manage the IT services that support staff
research. All research staff receive up-to-date hardware and software including office PCs, and
laptops, iPads and mobile PowerPoint projectors on loan. All research students are provided with
access to computers in public spaces, workrooms, and study booths, including a dedicated PGR

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
workroom. Through LIS, staff have obtained access to software for research including GIS mapping
software (ArcGIS) and GIS subscriptions (EDINA Digimap). Within LIS the University has created an
online repository – ChesterRep – as an outward facing research resource. The University invested
in a major new Campus – Thornton Science Park – which houses the Department of Computer
Science: sixteen staff are available for collaboration in the Digital Humanities, with particular
expertise in Visualization, Interaction and Graphics, and a suite of seven purpose-built computer
labs, an independent server and network, and specialist software: this infrastructure is being
exploited by Andrew, Grady, Pickles, and Wilson.

3.2.4 University Library Facilities
History research at Chester relies on access to a range of excellent research libraries and archives.
Eight University libraries hold over 750,000 e-books, approximately 300,000 physical books and
65,000 full text online journals. For the Faculty of Arts and Humanities there is a team of five
specialist subject librarians who collaborate on the design both UG and PG research and resource
training (including programme wide information literacy and research sessions). In conjunction with
our subject librarians, we utilise subject specific budgets to purchase specialist print titles and
electronic journal subscriptions. We have access to subscriptions to fourteen major electronic
collections of online primary sources, twelve major providers of international electronic e-book and
journal collections spanning our own subjects and allied disciplines such as Geography, Politics,
Psychology, Sociology and Education. Recent additions include e-book packages with De Gruyter,
Cambridge University Press, OUP, Carnie’s syntax, and the British Union of Fascist Archive. The
Department houses its own History and Archaeology Library, which has expanded thanks to a
generous bequest of the Philip Rahtz Library from his widow, Lorna. Outside the University,
researchers benefit from the internationally renowned Gladstone’s Library at Hawarden.

3.2.5 Local and Regional Archives
Within and around Chester History researchers exploit a range of internationally and nationally
significant archives. Cheshire Archives and Local Studies holds archival material from the medieval
to the modern: undergraduate historians are introduced to the holdings in the first year and complete
dissertations on the material; graduates are introduced to the collection on the MA Programmes;
doctoral projects have focused on the unique run of medieval and early modern court records (Gaunt
and Wilson supervising Greatorex Roskilly); and Emeritus Professor Graeme White continues to
publish on the extraordinary medieval documents from the Chester Palatinate. The Grosvenor
Museum has an enormous collection of objects yet to be catalogued and analysed, which is the
subject of Wilson’s collaboration through MOB. Chester Cathedral holds an episcopal archive of
international significance, which Hillman targeted through research with second year historians. The
Village Trust Port Sunlight and Unilever archives are an underexploited resource being explored by
Andrew. The Department now holds the Philip Rahtz Teaching Archive, generously donated by his
widow, which promises to throw fascinating light on his role in establishing archaeology as a
University discipline.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 International Research Collaborations
Using our new Research Clusters, History researchers developed three formal and funded
International Research Collaborations. The Diverse Narratives project (Ewence, Grady) is described
in more detail as one of our Impact Case-Studies. The Early Christian Churches and Landscapes
(ECCLES) project (PI Pickles) is part of a pan-European project, Corpus Architecturae Religiosae
Europeae (CARE). ECCLES brings together researchers from Europe, Britain, and Ireland to
investigate evidence for churches in Britain and Island pre-1100. AHRC Research Network Grant
funding supported two conferences, a projects workshop, and three stakeholder workshops bringing
together academic researchers, existing projects, ecclesiastical bodies, heritage agencies, and
members of parish communities. It will proceed by establishing and populating a publicly available
and mappable database with stakeholder resources. The Mobility of Objects Across Boundaries
1000-1700 (MOB) project (PI Wilson) brings together researchers from Europe, Britain, and Ireland
to explore an object-centred approach to historical change and challenge existing historical
paradigms and periodisations. AHRC Research Network Grant funding has supported two

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conferences, a third sector collaboration with the Grosvenor Museum to link objects from their
database to the Europeana database and produce teaching resources via the Open University’s
Open Arts Scheme. Both ECCLES and MOB are producing websites and databases in collaboration
with Computer Sciences at Chester. Building on this success, European Fascist Movements 1918-
1941 (PI Clarke, Liverpool; CI Grady, Chester) is a new AHRC funded Research Network (2019-
2021), which will develop through the next REF cycle.

4.2 Third Sector Collaborations
In addition to the funded activities of Diverse Narratives, ECCLES, and MOB, and of the Landscape
and Health Impact Case Study, the distinctive interdisciplinary character of our History research
lends itself to a variety of other third sector collaborations. For the Grosvenor Museum Chester our
History researchers provide nine lunchtime lectures a year organised in groups of three under the
banner of our Research Clusters, drawing public audiences of up to 80 people and producing an
income of c. £150 per lecture. Documentary research by Wilson into the production and use of later
medieval textiles resulted in annual lectures for the Victoria and Albert Museum textiles course and
consultancy for the Chateau D’Angers Museum in France and Burrell Collection in Scotland.
Research on landscapes and identities in twentieth-century Britain by Andrew produced a
collaboration with the Village Trust Port Sunlight in which second-year students designed a tour to
bring together different age groups associated with the Village and a mobile exhibition to promote its
significance. Co-teaching on the new interdisciplinary MA in Past Landscapes prompted Andrew and
Hickman to work with Gray-Jones and Taylor (Archaeology) and the Storyhouse Chester to put on
immersive public engagement activities on landscapes from the neolithic to the twentieth century for
the Being Human Festival. In parallel to her research on modern America, Jackson is an expert on
the Beatles and acts as a historical consultant for St Peter’s Church, Woolton and the Salvation Army
in Liverpool, for which she has used second year students to assist in the production of research
and publications to improve understanding of underappreciated heritage sites. Reflecting his
expertise from his previous career in the heritage sector and role on the heritage strand at University
Centre Shrewsbury, Jenkins is a Trustee of the Friends of the Flaxmill Maltings, the Victoria County
History Shropshire, and The Assault Glider Trust, responsible for advising on heritage, conservation
and research policies; he also works with regional and national organisations, such as local authority
Historic Environment Teams and Historic England, to find sustainable solutions for heritage assets
and museum collections.

4.3 Fellowships
Thanks to our new Research Clusters and research-led teaching programmes, we appointed two
members of staff who brought British Academy (Hillman) and Wellcome Trust (Hickman) Post-
Doctoral Research Fellowships to Chester. This was a springboard for further external fellowships:
during her Research Leave Hillman held a Fellowship at the Moore Institute, NUI Galway and
Hickman held a Research Fellowship at Manchester University. Recognising their combined
expertise in the history of minorities both Ewence and Grady hold Honorary Fellowships of the
Parkes Institute for Jewish/non-Jewish Relations, Southampton.

4.4. Membership of International and National Committees
Four History researchers play key roles on National Committees relating to their research expertise.
As the expert on Cromwell and the English Civil War, Gaunt is President of The Cromwell
Association, which involves organising conferences, speaking to schools, and producing public
research resources including the new Online Directory of Parliamentarian Army Officers for British
History Online. Springing from his international reputation as a historian of modern Germany, Grady
is Treasurer for the German History Society. Growing out of her work on landscapes and identities
in the north west, Andrew is a committee member of The Historic Society of Lancashire and
Cheshire. Reflecting his specialism in late medieval British history, Harry is a key committee member
for the Harlaxton Medieval Symposium.

4.5 Membership of International and National Societies
Many History researchers are members of period or field specific organisations, including the
International Society for the Study of Early Medieval England (Pickles), the German History Society

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Grady), and the American Politics Group, the British Association for American Studies, and the
Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations (Jackson).

4.6 Editorial Positions and Activities
History researchers hold high profile editorial positions for international publishers and journals.
Gaunt is part of a collaborative editorial team organised from Cambridge, editing the works of
Cromwell. Pickles is General Editor for Brepols’ most successful series, Studies in the Early Middle
Ages, and on the Advisory Board for Northern History. Ewence was book reviews editor for Jewish
Culture and History. Andrew is editor for the Inter-War Rural History Group blog.

More informally, the History researchers act as peer-reviewers for major international publishers
including Berghan (Grady), Brepols (Pickles), Continuum (Huggins), Edinburgh UP (Gaunt),
Liverpool UP (Huggins), Longman (Gaunt, Grady), Manchester UP (Hickman), Routledge (Grady),
and Yale UP (Gaunt, Grady), as well as for major international journals including The Archaeological
Journal (Wilson), Early Medieval Europe (Pickles), Catholic Historical Review (Pickles), French
History (Hillman), Historical Research (Pickles), Journal of Ecclesiastical History (Hillman), Journal
of Historical Sociology (Grady), Journal of Religious History (Hillman), Holocaust Studies (Grady),
Landscape and Urban Planning (Hickman), Landscape History (Hickman), Medical History (Pickles),
Medieval Archaeology (Pickles), The Medieval Review (Wilson), Renaissance Studies (Wilson),
Speculum (Wilson), Social History of Medicine (Hickman).

They also act as book reviewers for similarly impressive publications including the Antiquaries
Journal (Pickles), Archaeological Journal (Pickles), BBC History Magazine (Andrew, Hickman,
Pickles), Diplomatic History (Jackson), Early Medieval Europe (Pickles) English Historical Review
(Huggins, Pickles), Journal of British Studies (Andrew), The Medieval Review (Pickles, Wilson),
Northern History (Pickles), Renaissance Studies (Hillman), Reviews in History (Wilson), Social
History (Wilson), Textile History (Wilson).

4.7 HEI Consultancy
Having been a doctoral researcher in Ghent and having been offered a Belgian post-doctoral
fellowship, Wilson is a reviewer for the Fonds Voor Wetenschappelijk Onserzoek-Vlaanderen (FWO
or Research Foundation-Flanders) and drawing on her expertise in the documentary history of
medieval textiles she is a reviewer for the Pasold Research Fund for textile history.

4.8 Examining
In spite of the relatively high number of early career researchers at Chester, many have examined
post-graduate research degrees, including doctorates at Buckingham (Hickman), Sheffield
(Hickman), St Andrews (Wilson), York (Pickles) and Chester (Pickles x 3; Harry x 2; Hillman x 1) and
M Res degrees at Durham and Keele (Pickles).

4.9 Conference Organization and Participation
To broaden our reputation for world leading research, members of the History research team have
focused on hosting major conferences at Chester to reflect and advertise our expertise. The
foundation for this was a successful bid to hold the Royal Historical Society Symposium for 2017
called Putting History in its Place: Historic Landscapes and Environments including a visit from the
RHS Committee to Chester and papers from researchers based in Britain, Continental Europe, and
North America. This was complemented by the decision to host all our international research project
events at Chester, for Diverse Narratives, ECCLES, and MOB. Members of the team have since
been invited to speak for the Historical Association Conference 2019 in Chester and to collaborate
in the organisation of the BBC History Magazine Symposium 2019 and 2020 in Chester, including
an opportunity for our PGR Students to speak to public audiences. Individual researchers have
worked to bring their period and field specific conferences to Chester, including the Cromwell
Association and Chartism conferences. History researchers have spoken at over 100 major
international and national network events, conferences, and seminar series, involving over 50 funded
invitations, including papers across continental Europe at Amiens, Berlin, Bolzen, Bruges, Dresden,
Frankfurt, Grenoble, Istanbul, Prague, Roskilde, Salzburg, Valencia, and Vienna, and across Britain

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Ireland at Birmingham, Cambridge, Cork, Durham, Edinburgh, Huntingdon, Leeds, Leicester,
Liverpool, London, Manchester, Newark, Norwich, Oxford, Southampton, Stirling, Sussex,
Winchester, Worcester, and York.




                                                                                    Page 13
