Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Brunel University London

 Unit of Assessment: 19 – Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Division of Politics and History within the Department of Social and Political Sciences is a
vibrant, research-intensive community of 27 academics in Brunel’s College of Business, Arts and
Social Sciences.

We have hired nine world-class researchers to strengthen our strategic focus on selected priority
areas. Thus, we increased our permanent research-active staff by 29% and met our core aims of:
1) building on our existing strengths in intelligence, elections and public opinion, and 2)
consolidating our strengths in conflict studies and quantitative methodology.

Other key achievements include:
   • Quadrupling our PhD awards: as we broadened our research expertise, we recruited
       more UK and foreign PhD students, including those with overseas government funding who
       chose Brunel because of our research quality. We enhanced our supervision and
       monitoring arrangements, and so boosted our completion rates.
   • Winning an Open Innovation Partnership with government departments for whom
       academics conduct analysis and develop new thinking. Since 2019, there have been six
       Whitehall consultations with our staff. More are planned.
   • We now offer AHRC-funded PhD studentships as Brunel is a member of the TECHNE
       doctoral training partnership.

Our research is structured into the three well-established thematic clusters detailed in REF2014:

   •   International Relations: Professor Davies provides strategic leadership in his role as
       Director of our world-renowned Brunel Centre for Intelligence and Security Studies
       (BCISS). In the past, research in this cluster focused on security and intelligence, with a
       secondary focus on conflict. Five new hires since 2014 have enabled us to build critical
       mass in conflict studies and further develop our strong profile in security and intelligence.
       We will expand our research strengths by hiring a new lecturer in international relations in
       2022.
   •   Comparative Politics, Public Policy & Political Thought: our high-profile Magna Carta
       Institute (MCI) supports the activities of this cluster. Under the leadership of Professor
       Fisher, scholars carry out cutting-edge research into public policy, elections, and public
       opinion, while our highly respected theorists tackle questions of justice, inequality, and
       sustainability. Three new colleagues have broadened our expertise in comparative politics,
       public policy, and quantitative methodology. We will build on these strengths by hiring a
       new lecturer with expertise in quantitative methods in 2022.
   •   International History: under the strategic leadership of Professor Morgan, research in this
       cluster focuses on the role of identity in the modern age through prisms such as religion,
       ethnicity, and gender. The cluster has since 2014 aligned itself more closely with that in
       International Relations, as reflected in our decision to hire an expert on insurgency on a
       permanent post. Colleagues have shaped their research to the history of conflict over
       borders and ethnicity. We envisage even closer alignment with our conflict scholars, with a
       new ‘Conflict Past and Present’ cluster to supersede the International History one. This will
       enable us to provide more focused support to our conflict scholars and ensure better
       targeting of resources.

Interdisciplinarity is the DNA of our division, which comprises political scientists, political
theorists, and historians. Bringing together diverse academic skill sets is vital to achieving our
research objectives of enhancing research quality and situating our scholars at the leading-edge of


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contemporary debates. Thus, Davies organised a 2014 BCISS conference on the highly topical
issue of cyber-security together with Brunel Engineering and Law scholars. BCISS continues as a
major interdisciplinary hub bringing together political scientists, historians, economists, and legal
scholars. Our strategic emphasis on interdisciplinarity has meant the development of wider
networks enabled by Brunel’s support infrastructure: six of our staff have joined Brunel’s Global
Lives Interdisciplinary Research Centre to work on a project on ‘Crossing Borders’; two have joined
Brunel’s Africa Group that forges synergies among the university’s Africa scholars. There will be
more projects like this as we use our knowledge base to broaden our interdisciplinary networks
and pull in colleagues from other institutions: thus, the ‘Crossing Borders’ project will culminate in a
major 2021 AHRC networking grant application.

Facilitating impact is a cornerstone of our research strategy. Our research – particularly in our
core areas of intelligence and electoral politics – benefits wider society, public policy, and the
environment. BCISS and the Magna Carta Institute promote networking with end users and
publicise our research to wider audiences. We have over the last seven years broadened our
relationships with government stakeholders. Our future strategy is to intensify them:

   •   We expanded BCISS’ role as a world-leading intelligence studies centre that delivers
       impact nationally and globally. Our significant links with the UK intelligence community are
       a noteworthy feature of our research into security and intelligence. Davies and (reserve
       Army officer) Gustafson have boosted these links utilising their outstanding expertise, high
       security clearance, and past work with intelligence doctrine, itself the subject of a REF2014
       Impact Case Study. BCISS now networks with the Cabinet Office and Ministry of Defence
       bodies such as Defence Intelligence Counter-Intelligence. Davies and Gustafson provide
       analysis and practical training for said institutions. We will deepen these relationships,
       above all with Defence Intelligence Counter-Intelligence, through planned war game
       simulations (Gustafson, Wagner) and through research fellowships. We are incorporating
       newer BCISS faculty (Richterova, Wagner) into our networks with the intelligence
       establishment to ensure the vitality and sustainability of the BCISS impact strategy.

   •   The MCI’s mission is to analyse the best ways to create and maintain just societies that
       balance personal freedom and authority. By building networks with end users and
       promoting our findings on electoral administration, public spending, and policy design, the
       MCI has been instrumental in shaping the strategies of government authorities. Examples
       of how our research promotes good governance include the Australian Electoral
       Commission using Karp’s work on electoral integrity. The UK Cabinet Office, Home Office
       and Parliament, the Canadian federal government, and an Australian Senate Committee
       have done the same with Uberoi’s research on multiculturalist policies. The MCI’s role in
       celebrating the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta, which brought our scholars together with
       government officials and voluntary organisations, showcases MCI’s enduring success in
       supporting exchanges with public and third sector bodies. MCI networks are expanding,
       notably through the Open Innovation Partnership. Consistent with our impact strategy, we
       will deepen them by involving more of our scholars in the Partnership. One newer MCI
       member (Savani) has already been included, along with Davies, Fisher and Uberoi, as will
       more in the future.

We selected our three impact case studies as exemplars of our approach. Two (Davies,
Gustafson) draw on BCISS’ status as a centre of excellence in intelligence scholarship that
promotes two-way relationships between our scholars and end users. The third (Fisher)
demonstrates the MCI’s importance in generating significant impact on electoral authorities in the
UK and beyond. To ensure the vitality and sustainability of our impact, we have identified four mid-
career and junior staff whose policy-relevant research will have major future impact. By matching
them with mentors experienced in establishing impact, and through our new workload allocation
model which better credits time spent on developing impact, we will empower them to achieve this.

Brunel has adopted the Universities UK Concordat to support the highest standards of research
integrity. We nurture a culture of research integrity by training all our staff to conduct their

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research consistent with frameworks such as Brunel’s Research Integrity Code. This enhances our
research quality by upholding key standards such as honesty in presenting research goals and
findings, rigour in selecting appropriate methods and adhering to agreed protocols, as well as
transparency in reporting data collection methods and disseminating findings. Regular mentoring
and divisional reviews of research practice ensure everyone follows the policies for research
integrity.

We periodically review our promotion of good research practice and adapt it to evolving
requirements. Thus, we are approaching an open research environment: 100% of our nominated
outputs fulfil open access requirements. Staff have accessed Brunel’s Gold Open Access Fund to
publish outputs. All staff were briefed on our strategy to manage and share research data on
platforms such as Brunel Figshare by Pickering, who has significant experience in depositing
research data in repositories such as the Harvard Dataverse and the Comprehensive R Archive
Network. We aim to achieve 100% open data compliance by 2022.

Our strategic aim going forward is to build on our strengths in our core research areas. We will
pursue this through four objectives:

    1) Consolidate our status as a centre of excellence for conflict studies, while building
        on our existing strengths
We will achieve this by hiring three new lecturers. We will appoint colleagues whose research fits
into our core areas of intelligence; elections and public opinion, with emphasis on quantitative
methods; and international conflict. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, two of these appointments
have been delayed, but we appointed a new Lecturer in Defence and Intelligence who started in
September 2020.

    2) Build on our outstanding record in securing impact
Our research into the vital international problems of security and intelligence, conflict, and ruptures
in voting behaviour has major benefits for the public. We will continue to promote knowledge
transfer and user engagement at every opportunity. To build on our stellar impact record, we will
carry out a strategic review of our research mentoring system. Adapting this highly successful
system to the increasing size of our unit will enable us to achieve our research and impact
objectives. Staff members who are developing their impact (Fox, Richterova, Sarmiento-Mirwaldt,
Savani) will be matched with mentors with a track record of establishing impact.

    3) Increase our external research income
To carry out exceptional research into conflict, elections, and public opinion, we require large
grants from major funders. We will increase the number of grant applications and the overall
amount of funding applied for. Our enhanced mentoring system will bring together mentees
working on large grant applications with mentors experienced in attracting major funding. Our
recent hire Professor Karp has a proven track record of winning external funding. His experience,
along with Dale’s, Fisher’s and Morgan’s, will be matched with the needs of more junior grant
applicants, many of whom have already won small grants, or acted as co-investigators on larger
grants (Fox, Richterova, Sarmiento-Mirwaldt, Thomas, Uberoi, Wagner).

We will continue to encourage our staff to apply for small grants from more niche funders such as
the Indian Council of Social Science Research or the Polish-German Science Foundation.
Schemes from such funders are entirely appropriate for well-defined smaller research projects, and
seed new collaborations, major research projects, and impact.

    4) Continue to improve PhD outcomes
We will build on our fourfold increase of PhDs awarded. Based on our expertise in areas with
broad appeal, outstanding satisfaction rates (in the 2019 PRES survey, 97% of our respondents
expressed satisfaction with their supervision, placing us in the top quartile of institutions), and
through studentships such as our new TECHNE doctoral awards, we will continue recruiting
excellent PhD students. Our supervisory and monitoring arrangements, which we have
strengthened significantly since 2014, ensure consistently high completion rates. We aspire to join
                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
an ESRC-funded doctoral training partnership, such as the Grand Union Doctoral Training
Partnership, of which Brunel’s Education Department is already a member.

We will better prepare our PhD students for a range of career options by expanding our offer of
PhD placements in the Cabinet Office and through our far-reaching networks with policy-makers,
key pressure groups, and intelligence contractors. For PhD students wishing to pursue an
academic career, we will boost their chances of securing an academic position after completion by
supporting them with early publishing: in line with Brunel’s Research Strategy and Strategic Plan,
we will take on more PhD students who wish to write PhD theses as a collection of papers and
encourage subsequent co-authorship with their supervisors.


 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
We are a growing unit. Our strategic focus on building capacity in our core areas has led us to
recruit nine new staff members. Four of these are women. Two are from ethnic or religious
minority backgrounds. All our staff are on permanent contracts. Our recruitment strategy has
focused on building talent from the ground up by appointing eight exceptional lecturers (Belgioioso,
Fox, Hammond, Pickering, Richterova, Savani, Wagner, Whittaker), and on enhancing our
research leadership by appointing a well-known scholar at professorial level (Karp).

Our International Relations cluster has been reinforced through the addition of five new
colleagues. By appointing two emerging authorities on intelligence, we have ensured the vitality of
our intelligence research. Richterova specialises in intelligence and terrorism and fits seamlessly
into BCISS. Wagner is an expert on the history of intelligence and will strengthen the links between
our International Relations and International History clusters.

Three forward-looking appointments have built critical mass in conflict research. Hammond’s work
on the British Navy bolsters our expertise in the history of conflict. Pickering specialises in geo-
spatial analysis, with an emphasis on war and geography. Belgioioso contributed valuable insights
into political violence. She was replaced by a new female Lecturer in Defence and Intelligence in
September 2020.

In our Comparative Politics, Public Policy & Political Thought cluster, Karp – a world-
renowned expert on electoral behaviour – provides strategic leadership in the comparative study of
elections. Two additional appointments of rising stars in public opinion (Fox) and public policy
(Savani) have further enhanced the cluster’s world-leading research.

In our International History cluster, we made Whittaker’s contract permanent in 2016, reflecting
her research excellence. Whittaker’s work on insurgency fits into our core strength in the history of
conflict.

We have also reinforced our methodological credentials. By hiring five colleagues who are highly
skilled in quantitative methods (Belgioioso, Fox, Karp, Pickering, Savani), we increased the
proportion of political scientists who regularly use such methods from one quarter to nearly half.
Some are leaders in quantitative methodology: Pickering has developed new software and
databases to analyse spatial data, while Fox is an associate editor for the SAGE Research
Methods Foundations project. Far from being an end in itself, enhancing our methodological
expertise is crucial in our core areas of contemporary conflict, elections and public opinion.
Boosting this expertise ensures that we remain at the cutting edge of research in these areas and
enhances our potential for further grant capture.

Our staff development strategy is instrumental in achieving our research objectives. Only by
helping all staff achieve their full potential can we develop our research strengths, generate impact,
win grants for innovative research projects, and recruit excellent PhD students. Thus, in line with


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, we promote the development
of our staff at all career stages.

Staff on probation are given a light teaching and administrative load, enabling them to lay the
groundwork for excellent research by building networks with their new colleagues and honing
pioneering research ideas. They have a personal development mentor – on top of a research
mentor – to help them to fully benefit from Brunel’s research opportunities. One such opportunity is
our College-level ECR development series, which trains early career researchers such as Savani
on impact and research funding.

Our strategic objective of increasing our external research income can be achieved by exploiting all
staff members’ potential for grant capture. Following briefings on Brunel’s pump-priming resources,
our staff have successfully applied for these competitive funds. Belgioioso, Pickering and Savani
were awarded Brunel Research Development Funds to kick-start new research projects leading to
major grant applications. Brunel Research Initiative and Enterprise Fund (BRIEF) awards for
junior staff are key to our grant generation strategy of preparing junior colleagues for future grant
capture. Carrol, Hansen, Pickering, and Sarmiento-Mirwaldt all obtained BRIEF awards. Based on
his BRIEF award, Hansen, for example, is drafting an application to the Leverhulme Trust.

Brunel boasts three research leave schemes to promote impact, the production of excellent
outputs, and equal opportunities. All are awarded competitively based on peer-reviewed
applications. Our staff have an excellent record of obtaining these:

   1) Knowledge transfer leave facilitates the two-way transfer of knowledge and strengthens
      long-term relationships between Brunel and its user community. Sarmiento-Mirwaldt was
      awarded knowledge transfer leave in 2017-18 to fulfil a contract from the Polish-German
      cross-border region ‘Euroregion Spree-Neisse-Bober’. She evaluated the region’s use of
      EU funds to foster lasting cross-border networks and was awarded a follow-up contract in
      2020.

   2) Sabbatical leave has enabled ten of our scholars – most of them mid-career – to complete
       large research projects and convert their rigorous research into outstanding outputs. Del
       Lucchese’s sabbatical leave allowed him to finish his monograph Monstrosity and
       Philosophy (Edinburgh University Press). Others have used their sabbatical leave to
       conduct research abroad, and to develop collaborative networks: Thomas visited Australia
       and Brazil during his sabbatical to build networks and launch new research projects, which
       subsequently led to the publication of a special issue and his forthcoming monograph.

   3) Brunel’s Athena SWAN Research Awards enable staff returning from parental leave to hit
      the ground running when resuming their research. Carrol, Sarmiento-Mirwaldt and
      Whittaker were all awarded Athena SWAN funding. Whittaker obtained a period of teaching
      relief, during which she drafted an article and an application for a British Academy Mid-
      Career Fellowship.

We will carry out a strategic review of our research mentoring system to empower all staff to
achieve their full research potential. It will continue our fundamental principles, such as the
requirement that staff at all levels of seniority meet with their mentor twice a year. However, we will
inject a stronger strategic focus by asking staff to formulate a five-year research strategy. Mid-
career academics will be recruited as mentors, to draw on their strengths in producing high-quality
outputs, securing grants, and demonstrating impact.

Our strategic objective of developing our far-reaching and significant impact rests on promoting
knowledge transfer and user engagement. We do this through mentoring and by drawing on
university support. Research mentors encourage mentees to identify potential beneficiaries of their
research at its inception and follow up on user engagement activities with regular reviews. Staff
experienced in establishing impact share best practice, supported by our Strategic Planning
Directorate. The crucial importance of impact is recognised in our recruitment and promotions

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
criteria. Furthermore, Brunel celebrates and recognises staff who have generated impactful
research through its Research Impact Awards, awarded to scholars from across the university: in
2020, Gustafson and Dornan won the Environmental and Public Engagement Impact Awards
respectively, while Fisher was specially commended in the Policy Impact category.

Extensive collaborative networks are a cornerstone of our research strategy because they
generate innovative ideas, research income, and world-leading outputs. We have fostered
collaboration by hosting six research fellows from the UK and overseas, who chose Brunel for our
research quality. Three came on scholarships (Hu, Martín, Radai). Research fellows pursue their
own research programmes. We support them by providing office and computing facilities, and
appointing a research mentor for them. Through fellowships we facilitate exchanges with
practitioners: based on our networks with UK intelligence services, we regularly host research
fellows from the Armed Forces. Most recently, in 2019, the Chief of the Air Staff selected Brunel for
Wing Commander Steward who conducted research on counterintelligence regulation under a
prestigious Trenchard Fellowship. Our fellows in turn enrich our research environment:
collaborating with Steward enabled Davies to embark on new lines of counterintelligence research.
Davies and Steward are drafting two articles that will be submitted to peer-reviewed journals in
2021.

We use divisional funds to support networking and research activities that lead to new or
intensified collaborations and higher-quality outputs, such as conference attendance or archival
visits. These funds have enabled our staff to present their work at conferences such as APSA, ISA,
ECPR and PSA. They amount to £800 per colleague annually but are allocated competitively,
where a proposal’s strength determines funding success. We introduced this requirement after
2014 to ensure that spending yields maximum benefits. This allowed us to fund colleagues’
fieldwork or conference attendance in Australia, the US, and the Caribbean. Additionally, strategic
funds are available to enhance our research strengths: the division funded Sarmiento-Mirwaldt’s
attendance at the Essex Summer School, and Savani’s costs of interviewing Universal Credit
recipients.

Our staff’s career progression proves the success of our staff development strategy. Their
excellent achievements, of which research forms an integral part, have been recognised by the
university through 17 promotions. Five of these were of women, and one staff member from an
ethnic minority background was promoted twice. The careers of former fixed-term staff also
demonstrate our commitment to research excellence. Four scholars on research-and-teaching
contracts benefited from the same staff development policies as permanent staff. Aslam, Lees, and
Peña subsequently secured permanent positions at the Universities of Bath, Liverpool, and York
respectively. Whittaker’s Brunel contract was made permanent in 2016.

Support for PhD students
Our strategic objective is to build on the fourfold increase in our awarded PhDs based on our
research expertise, excellent PhD satisfaction rates, and through studentships such as our AHRC-
funded TECHNE awards. Our PhD recruitment is based on the criteria of merit and fit with our
research strengths. We give special consideration to applicants with protected characteristics.
This, and the increased diversity of our staff, has resulted in a diverse community of PhD students:
38% of our PhDs were awarded to women, and 24% to ethnic minority students (both up from 20%
in REF2014). We play our part in making the discipline more diverse by encouraging students from
our diverse PhD community to consider, where appropriate, an academic career.

We follow the Brunel Graduate School’s best practice guidelines to keep our PhD students on track
and provide them with professional development opportunities. We have radically improved our
progress monitoring by introducing an electronic monitoring system (eVision) and scheduling bi-
monthly supervisory meetings. Every PhD student has two supervisors, and supervisory meetings
are recorded on eVision. Regular progression reviews involving an independent reviewer take
place at 9, 12, 20, 30 and 40 months. Since 2014, every PhD student has also been assigned a
divisional Research Development Advisor (RDA). RDAs ensure that students’ personal and
professional development needs are met by analysing their skills profile and suggesting ways of

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
filling gaps. As a result of our enhanced supervision and monitoring arrangements, none of our
PhD students have exceeded their maximum period of registration since 2014. When PhD
students must suspend their research, we offer them every support in doing so. Upon their return,
supervisors coordinate closely with the students to ensure that the resumption is productive: one
PhD student took a period of abeyance due to health reasons, before returning and successfully
completing his PhD.

Skills development is writ large at Brunel. We introduced Brunel’s 3D Researcher Development
Tool which enables PhD students to create an individual cocktail of workshops on topics such as
research management, engagement, and impact. Reflecting our burgeoning strength in
quantitative methods, many of our PhD students have taken methods classes on statistical
analysis using software such as R.

All PhD students are members of a research cluster and attend divisional seminars. We are
particularly proud of our annual PhD Symposium where all students present their work to all staff
and fellow students. To foster future talent, we provide research funding of about £300 per student
annually for expenses such as conference attendance. Larger requests are considered on a case-
by-case basis. Thus, our students have presented their work at important conferences, such as
ISA and PSA.

Our PhD careers are manifold, reflecting our signature approach to promoting research skills that
enable PhD graduates to pursue academic careers, as well as practical experience and networking
opportunities, enabling them to pursue careers as high-ranking professionals. For example, our
female graduates Wood-Donnelly and Mocca obtained academic positions at the Universities of
Cambridge and Edinburgh respectively, while Krul embarked on a research fellowship at the Max
Planck Institute for Social Anthropology. Other male and female PhD graduates accepted
academic positions in their home countries (Colombia, Turkey). Yet others are pursuing careers in
the areas of their research: Arditti as a senior Firearms Licensing Officer for the Metropolitan
Police, Brunatti as liaison officer for the Canada Border Services Agency, and Klos as a lobbyist for
the German Steel Federation.

By expanding work placements and by enabling students wishing to pursue an academic career to
start publishing early, we are building on our immense improvement in PhD outcomes and further
strengthening our PhD students’ employability. Several of our students have published with their
supervisors (Abdalla, Arditti, Fabry, Farquharson, Krul). We will empower more of them to do so by
pursuing PhDs as a series of papers. We will also encourage supervisors to make publishing an
integral part of PhD supervision.

Equality and diversity
Brunel as a research-intensive university is submitting 100% of all eligible academic staff. We
followed the processes set out in our Code of Practice for the fair and transparent identification of
independent researchers and to ensure that the submitted outputs provide a balanced and
unbiased representation of the work of our diverse academic community, their characteristics and
contractual positions (age, disability, race, sex, part-time workers and fixed-term employees).
Outputs selection was monitored through regular Equality Impact Assessments.

Our Equality Impact Assessment indicates that our submitted outputs are a well-balanced
representation of protected characteristics. The 37% of staff aged 50-59 contribute 44% of the
outputs, reflecting the fact that most of our Professors fall into this age group. 22% of female staff
contribute 19% of the outputs. As they are all at lecturer or senior lecturer level, and three took
parental leave during the REF period, these figures suggest that our female scholars are punching
above their weight.

We know that well-balanced demographics motivate staff and attract potential PhD students, so a
building block of our research strategy is strengthening the equality and diversity of our division.
Women and ethnic minority staff, though well-represented in our outputs selection, are under-
represented among our staff. We recognise this as a problem – one that afflicts much of academia

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
– and are addressing it genuinely from the bottom-up. Four of the eight lecturers we hired are
women. Our proportion of minority staff has increased from 4% to 11%. Among the more junior
ranks of our division, there are promising indications that we will be able significantly to improve
our unit’s diversity at all levels of seniority: women have been over-represented in our promotions.
Ethnic minority staff have been represented proportionally. Six out of 14 granted leave periods
went to women, including three Athena SWAN awards that enabled staff returning from parental
leave to produce high-quality outputs, apply for funding, and develop their impact.

We are proactive in identifying pathways for junior staff to build their careers. Two of the three
lecturers who will be mentored regarding impact generation are women (Richterova, Savani). As
part of our succession planning, we have given junior and mid-career staff with protected
characteristics roles that will prepare them for future research leadership (Sarmiento-Mirwaldt,
Wagner).

All staff benefit from the same support structures. When there is competition for resources – such
as competitive calls for grant applications, finite research funding, or a limited number of PhD
places – we carry out equality impact assessments to ensure that we give due regard to
candidates with protected characteristics.

Brunel’s new workload allocation model (WAM) ensures an equitable distribution of staff’s time
devoted to tasks such as management, teaching, and external engagement. All staff are allocated
at least one third of their time for research; through WAM, we ring-fence this time and ensure that
no individual or demographic group is overburdened. If it does not conflict with their teaching and
administrative duties, staff can carry out their research flexibly and from remote locations. Those
with caring responsibilities have benefited especially from this arrangement.

We support the wellbeing of staff and PhD students through our sensitivity to individual needs.
Research activities such as meetings are scheduled to avoid conflict with caring duties or religious
observance. We make special equipment available to enable staff with disabilities or chronic
diseases to research productively. A culture of mutual care and multiple access points (line
managers and mentors for staff; supervisors, RDAs, and Graduate School staff for PhD students)
ensures that any potential issues are identified and rectified early on.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Our external grant money in the REF period amounts to £847k. On top of this, we secured contracts
worth £46k from sources such as the Dubai police, ‘Euroregion Spree-Neisse-Bober’, and the major
conservation NGO Africa Parks Network, to carry out specified research or training based on our
research.

Our grant generation strategy in the past relied on a few individuals winning large grants from
funders such as the ESRC, the British Academy and the Canadian and Australian Research
Councils. In an ever-more competitive funding environment, we ensured the sustainability of our
grant income through two major changes:

   •   Hiring new staff with a proven record of successful grant capture (Fox, Karp, Richterova). An
       example is Fox’ Understanding Society Policy Fellowship, worth £30k, which links to our core
       area of electoral behaviour. Fox is investigating whether volunteering increases young
       people’s political engagement, particularly in those from disadvantaged backgrounds.
   •   Enabling more staff at all career stages to apply for grants. Through mentoring, regular
       information on funding opportunities, and grant-writing support, we encourage applications to
       big funders such as the ESRC or the British Academy, but also more niche funders, such as
       the Council for British Research in the Levant, and the Indian Council of Philosophical
       Research. Schemes from such funders are often well-suited to smaller research projects,
       which subsequently seed new collaborations, major research projects or impact. For
       example, Wagner’s £2k grant from the Council for British Research in the Levant fed into his

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       successful grant application to the British Academy (£10k), enabling him to strengthen his
       collaboration with researchers from Ireland and the US and co-edit a special issue of
       Contemporary Levant.

Thanks to these changes, more staff than previously obtained funds that enabled them to carry out
higher-quality research. This led to a significant diversification of our sources of income. We secured
grants from major funders such as UKRI and the British Academy and numerous smaller funders
such as the Daiwa Foundation and the Marine Corps University Foundation.

In our International Relations cluster, awards have been secured to promote interdisciplinary
collaboration, leading to more creative ideas and ultimately higher-quality outputs. One highlight is
Richterova’s £49k share of a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. As co-investigator, Richterova is
developing a new interdisciplinary framework for analysing counter-terrorism with Dr Bury (Bath)
and is contributing towards the launch of a transatlantic counter-terrorism Centre of Excellence
through her extensive networks with intelligence practitioners. Another highlight is Hughes’ £3k
grant from the Marine Corps University Foundation, with which he organised a major 2014
conference on the Pacific War. Between 2014 and her departure in 2016, Krahmann had £167k in
support from the ESRC for her research into private security companies.

Through BCISS, we also received benefits-in-kind such as sponsorship. The defence contractor
Raytheon sponsored two interdisciplinary BCISS conferences on defence intelligence and cyber-
security in 2014. Based on the former, Davies edited a 2016 special issue of Intelligence and
National Security.

In our Comparative Politics, Public Policy & Political Thought cluster, we have secured grants
for large-scale data collection, resulting in rigorously researched outputs and major policy impact.
Fisher’s three ESRC grants are a key example: he was awarded £376k to lead major research
projects on the 2015, 2017 and 2019 UK general elections with colleagues from the Universities of
Manchester, Bath, and Birmingham. He also received £35k from the Electoral Commission for
projects on electoral agents in the same elections and in the 2016 referendum. Based on these
large-scale data collection efforts, he produced numerous reports and journal articles. Another
example is Sarmiento-Mirwaldt’s £10k British Academy grant, which she used to analyse spatial
patterns in Polish attitudes through a survey.

Our theorists frequently secure fellowships to facilitate collaborations that lead to world-leading
outputs and new research ideas: Dale was awarded a Mid-Career Fellowship from the British
Academy (£75k) to produce three outputs and collaborate with colleagues from Brazil and India on
a major grant application. This application was successful: Dale received $40k from the Asia-
Pacific Network for Global Change Research, as well as £3k from the Daiwa Foundation, to co-
organise a conference on green growth, which led to a major co-edited volume. Del Lucchese was
awarded £14k for a fellowship of the Collegium de Lyon to carry out research for the second
volume of his book on monstrosity. Thomas received £31k from the Institute of Advanced Studies,
Princeton, to produce two journal articles and collaborate with colleagues on an edited volume.

In the International History cluster, external funding supports pioneering archival and digitisation
work. Morgan was awarded two grants from the British Library’s Endangered Archives Programme,
worth £30k in total. This enabled him to build digital archives of 18th and 19th Century legal documents
in Saint Vincent. Thanks to his work, these documents are now accessible through the British Library
website.

As we frequently require funding for collaboration and data collection, our objective is to increase our
number of grant applications and the overall amount applied for. In the past, potential grant
applicants were sometimes held back by an unawareness of niche funders or suitable short-term
initiatives of mainstream funders. Since 2014, we have become nimbler and more mindful of funding
opportunities through alerts from Brunel’s Research Support and Development Office (RSDO) and
Research Professional. We are becoming even more proactive and recommend to individual
colleagues funding schemes that match our strengths in intelligence, conflict, elections and public

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
opinion, as with the Minerva Research Initiative, Kluge Fellowships, and the ESRC’s Secondary Data
Analysis Initiative.

Through our reformed, strategically focused mentoring, we will encourage more staff members at all
levels to apply for grants. Several junior staff have obtained small grants or acted as co-investigators
on larger projects. Our support structures will enable them to build on their experience in grant-
writing and research management and apply for larger grants as principal investigators. Three
colleagues (Belgioioso, Pickering, Savani) have successfully applied for pump priming funds from
Brunel’s Research Development Fund, which will lead to major future grant applications. Junior staff
who are less experienced in winning grants will be mentored by those who have such experience
(Fisher, Dale, Karp, Morgan).

Dedicated support for grant applicants from RSDO and our College Research Office enables staff
to succeed at grant capture – from discovering funding opportunities (through sessions such as a
presentation by Leverhulme Assistant Director Dr Henshaw) all the way to managing grants and
research data. Staff benefit from grant writing training and a rigorous, constructive peer-review
process: two reviewers and the departmental Director of Research provide written feedback. For
applications to the British Academy, Brunel additionally introduced ‘pitch-to-peers’ events,
providing researchers with the opportunity to present their proposal and receive immediate
feedback from a panel of academics with experience of winning grants.

Infrastructure and facilities
We use our Research Seminar Series strategically to enable networking and then collaboration.
We ensure that the series features diverse presentations that address the interests of all research
clusters, with a balance of external speakers and internal presentations of our research. Carrol, del
Lucchese, Fisher, Neocleous, Swenson, and Thomas additionally secured university funding for
special seminar series on topics such as ‘Comedy, Politics and Populism’ and ‘Violence, War and
Policy’. These have enriched our research environment by bringing in external speakers and
expanding colleagues’ research networks.

Our staff benefit from excellent facilities, including a well-stocked library alongside specialised
libraries and archives. We all have generous personal offices, with special provision for staff with
disabilities or chronic diseases. Colleagues with back pain have received ergonomic furniture and
specialist equipment such as adjustable monitor stands. Consistent with our burgeoning strength in
quantitative methodology, we provide our staff with excellent computing facilities and software such
as Stata and NVivo. We also make good use of cross-HEI shared research infrastructure, including
the ESRC Data Archive, on which we have drawn, and where we have deposited data, such as
Fisher’s constituency campaigning data.

As evidenced by our excellent REF2014 results, we have a stellar record of achieving far-reaching
and significant impact on policy-makers, parliamentarians and end users. In the 2020 Times Higher
Education Impact Ranking, Brunel secured the maximum score for working with government (SDG
16), due to the work of the MCI and our Open Innovation Partnership. Our strategy to build on this
strong record rests on broad-based communication of our important findings to users and the
public, and on targeted mentoring of staff whose research has been earmarked as the basis for
future impact generation.

Financial resources to maximise impact include a College research impact fund. Karp received
such funding to present his findings on how to build professional electoral management to the
International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance. Our divisional Impact Champion
(Sarmiento-Mirwaldt) advises colleagues on developing their impact. Brunel’s electronic Impact
Tracker enables all colleagues to chart progress, store evidence of impact, and record any impact-
related activities. We use Altmetrics to track the attention that our scholarship is receiving.

Our research centres are instrumental in fostering and maintaining two-way relationships with
stakeholders. They are hubs from which we organise conferences, public engagement events and
research fellowships, and the vehicles through which we disseminate reports and briefing papers.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
BCISS and the MCI have played a crucial role in initiating new research collaborations (such as
Gustafson’s research into counter-poaching measures in central and southern Africa) and
stakeholder engagement (including Fisher’s and Sarmiento-Mirwaldt’s outreach activities among
policy-makers). They will continue to do so.

Through BCISS, we boost our scholars’ impact at every opportunity. The centre has enabled
Davies and Gustafson to consolidate their profiles as leading intelligence scholars. Their insights
have been sought not only by UK intelligence institutions, but also by the Malaysian Ministry of
Defence, the European Union’s Intelligence and Situation Centre, the UK Home Office, the
Metropolitan Police, and the Crown Court. Our more recent appointees are following in their
footsteps, ensuring the vitality of our BCISS impact strategy: Wagner, along with Gustafson, has
been invited by Defence Intelligence Counter-Intelligence (Ministry of Defence) to train their staff
through war game simulations. Richterova has long-standing, enduring links with Slovakia’s
GLOBSEC Intelligence Reform Initiative, for which she has produced policy reports and created a
high-level group of current and former intelligence officials.

Promoted through our MCI networks, our research into electoral and social policies has frequently
impacted the work of governmental and legislative authorities, as well as key think tanks. Fisher’s
work on electoral administration and campaigning has delivered important findings for the UK
Electoral Commission, overseas commissions, and political parties. Similarly, the use of Karp’s
work on electoral integrity by the Australian Electoral Commission, and of Uberoi’s research on
multiculturalism by the Canadian federal government are outstanding examples of MCI members’
policy-relevance.

Other academics in the MCI have begun establishing significant policy impact. Sarmiento-
Mirwaldt’s research into an EU cross-border funding instrument illustrates how our research
centres and university schemes interact: Sarmiento-Mirwaldt disseminated her past research into
so-called ‘small projects funds’ widely among regional, national and EU policy-makers through the
MCI. This led to her being awarded a contract by the Polish-German cross-border region ‘Spree-
Neisse-Bober’ to evaluate its small projects fund’s capacity to foster cross-border networks. For
this, Brunel granted Sarmiento-Mirwaldt knowledge transfer leave in 2017-18. She worked closely
with policy-makers and beneficiaries, and her recommendations are being implemented. A follow-
up project commenced in 2020.

Newer MCI members came with substantial experience in stakeholder engagement. Fox maintains
collaborative partnerships with several volunteering charities and sits on a Task and Finish Group
for the Welsh Government to support volunteering. Savani has submitted evidence to the UN
Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty, has supported the development of the Food Security
Needs Assessment for the London Borough of Barnet, and acts as an advisory board member for
Trussell Trust's research project 'State of Hunger'. She also submitted evidence to a House of
Lords select committee. These examples show that through strategic appointments and
institutional support we have assured the vitality and sustainability of our research impact.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration
Promoting far-reaching and intense collaboration with other scholars is a cornerstone of our
research strategy. As an interdisciplinary division, we see collaboration as key to generating
innovative ideas, research income, and world-leading outputs.

In the International Relations cluster collaboration takes place through joint research projects
such as Richterova’s UKRI-funded collaboration, conference organisation such as Hughes’
conference on the Pacific War, and co-authorship. Pickering’s co-authorship of an article for the
Journal of East Asian Studies with scholars from Kobe and Rikkyo Universities is an excellent
example. Following this, Pickering organised a 2018 research poster conference with students and


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
staff from Brunel and Kobe. The event was such a success that it was repeated in 2020 and,
virtually, in 2021.

In the Comparative Politics, Public Policy & Political Thought cluster, collaboration mainly
happens through research projects such as Fisher’s ESRC-funded collaborations, co-authorship,
and conferences such as Dale’s international conference on green growth. Our theorists have won
numerous fellowships at other institutions, enabling them to expand their networks (Dale, Del
Lucchese, Thomas). One highlight is Uberoi’s work on multiculturalism: Uberoi collaborates
extensively with Professor Modood (Bristol). Their joint publications have been recognised as a
distinct school of multicultural political thought. In 2019, they organised a symposium on this
school, published in the leading journal Ethnicities. Recently described in a journal article by Dr
Chin (Melbourne) as the scholar who has ‘done the most to examine the possibility of a
multicultural national identity’, Uberoi is a sought-after collaborator worldwide. In 2019, he was
awarded £7k by two Indian research councils for a project with Dr Kumar (IIT Tirupati) on Indian
conceptions of multiculturalism.

In the International History cluster, collaboration takes place through visiting fellowships (Carrol,
Dornan), co-editorship of major volumes, and conference organisation. One highlight is a 2016
international conference Carrol organised on the twenty-year anniversary of the Channel Tunnel.
This event enabled colleagues to establish new contacts with academics and key users such as
librarians and EU programme managers. It also led to the publication of a special issue of the
Revue d’Histoire des Chemins de Fer.

Our strategy to maintain and enhance our collaborations is threefold: 1) enabling staff to develop
collaborations by regularly sharing contacts, 2) assisting staff in maintaining and deepening
collaborations through strategic funds, and 3) strategic intervention, when colleagues need help in
identifying potential collaborators or in initiating collaborations.

In the past, colleagues managed their own networks. We supported this through our seminar
series and divisional research funds. Since 2014, we have made better use of university-level
opportunities to initiate collaborations. Brunel’s Centre for Entrepreneurship and Sustainability
sponsored Dale’s cutting-edge work on deforestation in Brazil, a major contributing factor towards
wildfires in the rainforest. Dale carried out fieldwork with researchers from the prestigious Getúlio
Vargas Foundation. An article from this project will likely be published in 2021. We also used our
membership of YERUN to win funding that brought Dr Martín (Universidad Autónoma de Madrid) to
Brunel to start an ongoing collaboration on campaigning with Fisher.

We have expanded our research collaborations significantly. They now include high-profile
researchers from over 30 countries, including at Harvard University, Fudan University, and the
British Institute in Eastern Africa, as well as numerous UK institutions, such as Royal Holloway,
SOAS, and Warwick University. This has raised our profile: eight staff members have given invited
keynote addresses at conferences, and we organised or co-organised nine conferences, five of
which were held at Brunel.

In the future, we will focus on enhancing interdisciplinary collaboration, which boosts research
quality and innovation. We will identify and exploit opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration
by requiring cluster leads to set the strategic direction, and by reaching out from Brunel structures
that promote interdisciplinary research. Thus, BCISS will continue as a major interdisciplinary hub
through which we organise conferences and attract research fellows. Furthermore, Dornan and
Whittaker obtained university funding to create a research group on borders as part of Brunel’s
Global Lives Interdisciplinary Research Centre. The group comprises scholars from three Brunel
departments, and is drafting an application to the AHRC networking scheme.

User and public engagement
Engagement with key research users and beneficiaries remains a cornerstone of our impact
strategy. We consider it our public duty to communicate our important findings to beneficiaries and
the public. We will continue to empower all staff to engage end users through 1) regular reviews of

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
engagement activities in mentoring meetings, 2) institutional infrastructure and resources, including
our research centres, and 3) frequent sharing of best practice. Examples of successful user
engagement include Thomas’ consultation on the politics of translation for the GUE Grouping in the
European Parliament, and Karp’s and Uberoi’s engagement with Australian, Canadian and UK
government bodies. Junior colleagues came with significant experience, ensuring the sustainability
of our user engagement. This includes Fox’ links with the Welsh Government, Richterova’s work
with GLOBSEC, and Savani’s experience in giving evidence to the UN Special Rapporteur on
Extreme Poverty, and the House of Lords Select Committee on Food, Poverty, Health and the
Environment.

A key example of our wider contribution to government and society is the Open Innovation
Partnership, which promotes knowledge exchange with the Cabinet Office. Whitehall staff have
consulted our scholars on defence spending (Davies), UK statistics (Fisher, Savani), ‘Prevent’
(Uberoi), trust in the justice system (Fisher), and intelligence in international trade (Davies). In turn,
the partnership has enriched our research environment: the Head of the Open Innovation Team at
the Cabinet Office gave Policy-Making Masterclasses in 2019 and 2020. Further Masterclasses are
planned.

Brunel is a highly supportive environment for staff to communicate their research to the public and
a dynamic hub in the west London area. With HEIF funding from the university, the MCI played a
key role in the national initiative surrounding the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta. Fisher served
on the national organising committee, curated a public exhibition (attended by over 5,000 visitors)
at Runnymede, created materials for schools, and promoted the event through talks.

With financial and organisational support from RSDO, Dornan and Carrol, along with Dr Maples
(Department of Arts and Humanities), organised the Brunel leg of the 2019 Being Human Festival
that communicates scholarly research to the UK public. Events at Brunel focused on Dornan’s
research on slavery and abolition. They included a specially curated exhibition, a walking tour
about Uxbridge’s connection to slavery, a theatrical production, and a public lecture by Professor
Olusoga OBE (Manchester). These attracted over 200 visitors. Subsequently, the Arts Council and
the WA Cadbury Trust supported the costs of a UK tour of the theatrical production with £16k.
Dornan won Brunel’s Public Engagement Research Impact Award for her work on the Festival in
2020.

Some of our research is concerned directly with the needs of marginalised groups, as with
Gustafson’s and Whittaker’s research that is relevant to livelihoods in Africa, Dornan’s and
Morgan’s expertise on colonial legacies, Uberoi’s research on multiculturalism, and Fox’s work with
young, disadvantaged Britons. We engage with these diverse communities frequently. Morgan’s
British Library-funded digitisation of endangered documents in Saint Vincent led him to train local
archivists, librarians, and members of the Registry Department. He regularly receives and
responds to requests for information from people who are tracing their genealogy.

We encourage our staff to take media engagement from Brunel’s extensive menu of staff
development courses, which trains them to communicate their research to the public. They appear
in the media regularly, including numerous appearances on Sky News by Fox and Hughes,
Fisher’s work on ITV’s election night coverage, appearances on the BBC World Service by
Gustafson and Hansen, Russia Today by Folly, Radio 5 by Sarmiento-Mirwaldt, and LBC Radio by
Thomas. Our research has featured in newspapers such as The Guardian, The Sunday Times, or
The Daily Mail, as well as foreign newspapers including the Israeli daily Maariv, the Polish Gazeta
Wyborcza, or the American Conservative. Hughes has been a historical consultant for numerous
TV programmes such as the BBC’s ‘Who do you think you are?’, and Hammond was interviewed
for a new TV series on 'How Factories Changed the World'.

Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
Evidence of our unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, and recognition by the
research base includes the following:


                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •     Responsiveness to national initiatives: Fisher’s work on election campaigns was
        sponsored by the ESRC following calls for urgent data collection for the 2017 and 2019
        General Elections and the Electoral Commission’s analysis of the 2016 EU referendum.
        Morgan’s grants from the British Library’s Endangered Archives Programme, and
        Dornan’s contribution to the Being Human Festival are further evidence of our
        responsiveness to national priorities.
  •     Journal editorship: Neocleous was Chair of the Editorial Collective of Radical Philosophy
        until 2017. In 2018, Fisher, Hansen, Pickering, and Sarmiento-Mirwaldt took over the
        editorship of the Political Studies Review. They introduced new sections, e.g. for early
        results and theoretically-grounded null findings, that were well-received by authors and on
        social media. Fox, Richterova and Savani subsequently joined the editorial board, giving
        junior academics crucial editorial experience.
  •     Our staff serve on numerous editorial boards of leading journals in their field. Examples
        include History of Women in the Americas (Dornan), Nations and Nationalism (Uberoi),
        and Political Science Research Methods (Karp). Our staff also serve on book series
        editorial boards such as Edinburgh University Press 'Spinoza studies' (Del Lucchese), the
        Brill Historical Materialism series (Thomas), and Routledge Studies in Radical History and
        Politics (Linehan).
  •     Our staff hold leadership positions in professional bodies, namely the post of Director
        of the French History Network (Carrol), Council Chair of the Army Records Society
        (Hughes, 2014-2018), Vice President of the Second World War Research Group
        (Hammond), Communications Officer for the PSA’s EPOP specialist group (Fox), and
        membership in numerous leading bodies such as the steering committees of the Oxford
        Intelligence group (Davies, Wagner), the Council and Publications Committee of the Navy
        Records Society (Seligmann), History UK (Dornan), the British Study Group on
        Intelligence (Richterova), the Cambridge Intelligence Seminar (Gustafson), the Society for
        the Study of French History (Carrol), the International Gramsci Society (Thomas), and the
        Conflict Research Society (Pickering).
  •     Reviewing: we have reviewed numerous grant applications for funders such as the
        ESRC, the British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust, and the American National Science
        Foundation. We regularly review article submissions for high-quality journals such as the
        American Journal of Political Science, the American Political Science Review, and the
        Journal of Politics, and book proposals for Cambridge University Press, Oxford University
        Press, and Yale University Press.

Our research excellence is reflected in the many competitive fellowships awarded to our staff,
including a Visiting Fellowship at the University of Basel (Carrol), a British Academy Mid-career
Fellowship (Dale), a fellowship of the Collegium de Lyon (Del Lucchese), a Visiting Fellowship at
Mansfield College, Oxford (Dornan), a Fellowship of the Constitution Unit at UCL (Fisher), an
Understanding Society Policy Fellowship (Fox), and a Ridgeway Fellowship of the United States
Army Heritage and Education Centre (Hammond).

Our strategy to ensure the vitality of our research through strategic hires is evidenced in the
numerous prizes our newer staff members have received, including the prize for the best 2018
article in the Journal of Elections, Public Opinion and Parties and the Dillwyn Medal for Social
Sciences (Fox), the Best Dissertation Prize from UCL, as well as a Green UCL Award for
Excellence in Sustainability (Savani), the Moncado Prize for Hammond’s article in the Journal of
Military History, the Corbett Prize in Modern Naval History (Hammond), and the Best Student
Paper Award from the Intelligence Studies Section of the International Studies Association
(Richterova). Hughes won the finalist ‘commended’ prize in the Society for Army Historical
Research Templer Medal competition for his monograph Britain’s Pacification of Palestine
(Cambridge University Press).

We collaborate extensively with other institutions in postgraduate training. Since 2018, we have
been offering AHRC-funded PhD studentships though our membership in the TECHNE doctoral
training partnership.


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Brunel has a part-funding agreement with the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission. Uberoi
co-supervises a PhD student at IIT Indore holding a Commonwealth Split-site Scholarship. We also
collaborate with other institutions in PhD supervision: our PhD student Borg is co-supervised from
the Norwegian Defence Intelligence School, benefitting from the expertise of scholars at two of the
world’s top-ranking intelligence institutions. Our staff frequently act as second supervisors for PhD
students elsewhere, including King’s College London, Goethe Universität Frankfurt/Main, Justus
Liebig Universität Giessen, and Osaka University. The success of these arrangements is
evidenced in exceptional student outcomes, with PhDs awarded cum laude or magna cum laude,
and students winning prestigious prizes such as Osaka University’s Best Doctoral Dissertation
Award, and the Elsevier Outstanding Thesis Award. This demonstrates our commitment to
research excellence among the next generation of scholars at Brunel and beyond.




                                                                                            Page 15
