Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The University of Manchester

 Unit of assessment: 30 (Philosophy)
   Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


   Context & structure
   The Philosophy Department at Manchester has been on a remarkable upward trajectory
   over the last 20 years. In RAE2001 it was a ‘Centre’ in the Politics Department with six
   staff, three part-time self-funded PhD students, and a total research income of just
   £7,500 in the assessment period. By RAE2008 it had expanded, submitting 14 Category
   A staff with four PhDs awarded and £340k research income. By REF2014, again with
   14 Category A staff submitted, 16 PhDs were awarded and research income was around
   £500k.
   Since 2014 the Department has made further significant improvements to the vibrancy
   and sustainability of its research environment. It now has 15 REF-eligible permanent
   staff (five professors, two readers, two senior lecturers, five lecturers and one
   Presidential Fellow), a Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, and a British Academy
   Postdoctoral Fellow; 25 PhD completions (plus a further nine students based elsewhere
   but co-supervised by Philosophy staff); and research income of over £2.5m.


   During the current REF period, successes include:
      International recognition of the exceptional quality of our research in the history of
       analytic philosophy and metaphysics, where we were ranked joint 3 rd and joint 9th
       in the world respectively by the 2018 Philosophical Gourmet Report.
      Fivefold increase in income from external research funding, from around £500k to
       over £2.5m, including eight postdoctoral researchers.
      An increase in quality of our PGR intake: all 28 of our current PGRs won full
       scholarships, and all but one of our 25 completed students (i.e. students whose
       main supervisor was in the Department) – 96% – passed their viva outright or with
       only minor corrections.


   Philosophy is one of eight departments within the School of Social Sciences. It is well
   integrated into the School and the Faculty of Humanities, with collaborations across the
   School and Faculty that mutually enhance our research environment. This includes PGR
   co-supervision in this REF period with staff in Sociology, Social Anthropology, Politics,
   Law, Music and Linguistics, and externally funded research projects with Sociology,
   Economics, Geography, and Planning & Environmental Management.
   In line with our impact strategy for this REF period (see below) we have reconfigured
   our areas of specialisation, which are now History of Analytic Philosophy, Metaphysics,
   Engaged Philosophy, and Mind & Language. Each research area includes several staff
   and PGRs and has a designated lead who acts as a focal point for managing activities.
   Our areas of specialisation also drive our staff recruitment practices (see §2). Below we
   list some of the activity in each area during this REF period (see §3 for more on
   externally funded projects):




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   History of Analytic Philosophy
   Scholarly research in this area has covered an exceptionally wide range of philosophers,
   from Frege to David Lewis, as well as broad themes such as the development of views
   about universals in the 20 th Century and the role of women in the development of
   philosophical logic. We have had two externally-funded research projects, on Samuel
   Alexander and Lewis, involving three Postdoctoral Researcher (PDR) positions.
   We have run international conferences and workshops on e.g. Lewis, Quine, and the
   history of universals, and hosted three visitors working in this area from Poland and
   China (see §4). Janssen-Lauret runs the Women in the History of Analytic Philosophy
   Network, and MacBride and Janssen-Lauret jointly run the Forum for Quine network
   with colleagues at Glasgow.
   We were ranked joint 3rd in the world – and joint 1st in the UK – in this area in the 2018
   Philosophical Gourmet Report (i.e. member of ranking group 2; group 1 has two
   members, both US).
   Main staff involved: Beebee, Crawford, Fisher, Janssen-Lauret, MacBride, Stevens,
   Uebel


   Metaphysics
   Current areas of research include fictionalism, trope theory, grounding, causality and
   free will. Activity has included a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship on causation and
   suicide and a further postdoctoral researcher spending his three-year Swedish
   Research        Council     postdoc    (on   ontology)    here;    and     international
   conferences/workshops on, e.g., tropes, processes, personhood, and free will. The
   historical projects on Alexander and Lewis mentioned above both had metaphysics as
   their primary focus.
   We were ranked joint 9th in the world – and joint 2nd in the UK – in this area in the 2018
   Philosophical Gourmet Report (i.e. member of ranking group 4; eight departments are
   in groups 1-3, including one UK department).
   Main staff involved: Beebee, Buckwalter, Caddick Bourne, Daly, Dodd, Fisher,
   Janssen-Lauret, Liggins, MacBride, Maung, Whittle


   Engaged Philosophy
   We conceived this area as a broad church, covering (a) areas of research with social
   and policy applications and resulting impact activities; (b) activities that aim to make
   philosophy more inclusive, accessible and environmentally sustainable; and (c) public
   engagement.
   Work on (a) has focused on a resistance to market-based approaches to environmental
   value and a conception of well-being that is needs- and capability-based rather than
   preference-based. Work on (b) has included the launch and management of the
   BPA/SWIP-UK Good Practice Scheme and hosting the annual SWIP-UK conference
   (The Profession We Want) in 2017, and (c) includes a range of public-facing activities.
   (See §4 for more detail.)
   Projects in Engaged Philosophy, funded by the ERC, the ESRC, the British Academy
   and NERC, have focused on ecosystem services, climate justice and green
   infrastructure, and have involved three PDRs including a British Academy (BA) Post-
   doctoral Fellow.
   Main staff involved: Beebee, Christian, Janssen-Lauret, Knights, MacBride, Maung,
   O’Neill

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Mind and Language
   Research in this area has included emotion, empathy, temporal experience,
   demonstrative thought, racial pejoratives, propositional attitudes and metaphor. We
   have had externally funded projects focusing on emotions (in relation to both social
   cognition and value) and consciousness, involving three PDRs including a second BA
   Postdoctoral Fellow.
   We have hosted SPiNFest (Semantics and Pragmatics in the North – with Linguistics)
   and Northern Phenomenology Network workshops, as well as several international
   workshops/conferences on, for example, emotions and the structure of consciousness.
   Main staff involved: Bayne, Buckwalter, Caddick Bourne, Crawford, Farrell,
   McClelland, Mitchell, Scott, J. Smith, T. Smith, Stevens


   Progress on research objectives since REF2014
   Our research objectives in 2014 were to:
   O1. achieve a substantial growth in our research grant income;
   O2. create and develop collaborative research groups both within the unit and with
       other partners;
   O3. organise active seminar series, workshops and reading groups and host major
       international conferences;
   O4. develop a large, thriving cohort of high-quality PGR students;
   O5. continue to focus on consistently producing world-class research publications and
       maximising the impact of the unit’s research;
   We have been very successful with respect to these objectives.


   Our very significant increase in research funding (O1) was underpinned by a strategy
   whose main elements were: (i) a systematic approach at School level to improving the
   support structures surrounding the application for and management of externally funded
   projects (§3); (ii) proactive involvement by department staff with soliciting and
   developing high-quality applications for postdoctoral fellowships; and (iii) a range of
   informal support mechanisms within the Department, such as increasing awareness of
   relevant opportunities; guidance and feedback on applications; and sharing of previous
   successful applications from the Department and elsewhere in the Faculty.
   Our success with (O1) has acted as a major driver for meeting (O2), (O3) and (O5); see
   §3. The most significant factors in achieving (O4) were high levels of investment by the
   School in scholarships; setting a higher standard for admission; and (we believe) a
   significant improvement in our international reputation.


   Progress on impact strategy since REF2014
   Our impact strategy objectives were to:
      build our research strategy around areas of specialisation responsive to impact
       potential;
      develop relationships and interaction with partner organisations and build new links
       with external bodies;
      recognise impact in career development.
   Through this strategy we have significantly improved both the number of staff involved

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   in, and our range of, impact activities.
   Our development of Engaged Philosophy as one of our areas of specialisation was a
   direct response to our impact strategy. Impact activity was previously overly reliant on a
   single individual (O’Neill). Engaged Philosophy was conceived as a way to encourage
   a broader range of staff, whatever their research area, to think creatively about the
   various different ways in which they can engage with the wider world beyond academic
   research, and to provide a focal point for such activities – as well as a ‘shop window’
   that signals our commitment to this area to potential students and staff.
   This move has been very successful. Staff have thought creatively about how impact
   activity can be embedded in and resourced by externally funded research projects, for
   which teaching relief is provided via the School’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM).
   For example, the short film, PhilosophyBites podcast and sustainability guidelines
   described in §4 arose from funded projects, and the impact arising from the ClimateJust
   project (one of our case studies) was enhanced by ESRC Impact Acceleration Account
   funding.
   Our efforts to build and extend relationships with non-academic partners and external
   organisations have also been very successful. These have included collaborations with
   charities, community and environmental groups, practitioners in film-making and dance,
   the BPA, and SWIP-UK (see §4).
   Our PGRs have also begun to contribute actively to public engagement; e.g. three
   current PGRs have organised and started to run (remotely via prison TV due to COVID-
   19) a philosophy course at HMP Stafford for the Philosophy in Prison charity.
   Finally, the School has made concerted efforts to raise staff awareness and
   understanding that the University’s promotion criteria include ‘knowledge exchange and
   external engagement’ as one of the four areas of recognised activity, alongside
   research, teaching and academic service (see §2, Staff Development). Staff
   increasingly recognise that this activity is a valued part of their contribution and career
   development at Manchester.
   Overall, we have made significant progress in embedding impact as a meaningful and
   valued element of our research activity and in extending the range and volume of impact
   activities. Our two strongest impact case studies selected for submission both stem from
   the work of O’Neill, but the impact of existing work by other members of staff – e.g.
   Beebee’s work on women in philosophy – is building, and we are committed to
   continuing this upward trajectory.


   Research and impact objectives, 2020–25
   We aim to focus on further improvements with respect to the career development of
   PGRs, PDRs and other ECRs; impact activities; and equality, diversity and inclusion
   (EDI). Our research objectives for the next few years are therefore:


   RO1    Maintain our level of research grant income, with a focus on career
          development.
   Our strategy is to continue with our current successful practices around proactively
   soliciting and developing high-quality applications for externally funded PDRs hosted by
   the Department, with a particular focus on prospective female and BAME candidates.
   We will also develop more proactive policies and procedures around supporting and/or
   including early-career staff in research funding applications. This includes closer
   collaboration with the School’s Research Office and annual one-to-one meetings with
   the Department’s Research Director to identify opportunities, followed up with proactive


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   support in the development of applications and potential impact activities.
   RO2    Maintain the size and quality of our PGR cohort while further enhancing career
          development.
   Our strategy is to develop improved career advice and development opportunities for
   PGRs, including a more proactive approach to publishing high-quality journal articles
   during their studies (including co-authoring with supervisors); enhanced opportunities
   for gaining lecturing experience; mock job interviews; and maintaining supervisor
   contact and career advice post-PhD. To this end we have recently established ‘PhD
   Placement Officer’ as a permanent administrative role.


   RO3    Further develop the Department’s ‘Engaged Philosophy’ activity, including
          developing the capacity to spread impact and public engagement activities more
          widely across the department and embedding and enhancing good practice with
          respect to the accessibility of research and public engagement activities.
   Our strategy is to continue to think creatively about engaging wider audiences with our
   research and supporting a wider range of staff and PGRs in pursuing impact and public
   engagement opportunities. This will include developing collaborative research agendas
   and partnerships that draw on the complementary research expertise and skills of staff
   at the more theoretical and the more applied ends of the spectrum, as a route to opening
   up impact-oriented research opportunities to more staff.


   RO4    Further embed EDI in all our research activities.
   Our strategy is to continue to develop research and recruitment-related policies and
   activities that enhance the diversity of our staff and PGR community. We will monitor our
   research-related progress with respect to our commitments under the BPA/SWIP Good
   Practice Scheme (to which we have subscribed since 2014) to ensure that we meet, and
   preferably exceed, the targets we set ourselves, a key aim being to improve the ethnic
   and gender diversity of our PDRs.


   Open access
   We are enthusiastic about the open access agenda. In line with the University’s open
   research policy (REF5a, §2(v)), nearly all non-embargoed substantive journal articles
   and book chapters of current staff since 2014 – around 170 outputs – are available
   through our website as green or gold OA, around 50 of which are gold OA. Five
   members of staff have authored, co-authored, or made substantial revisions to existing
   articles in the fully-OA Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy in the current REF cycle,
   with six such articles between them.
   We are also making leading contributions to advancing OA practices more broadly in
   philosophy through our editorial roles. Mitchell was a founding co-editor of the Journal
   of Philosophy of Emotion, and Janssen-Lauret is a member of the editorial board of
   The Journal for the History of Analytical Philosophy – both free-to-publish OA journals.
   Beebee has recently accepted an invitation to be Editorial Chair of a new collaborative
   venture between the British Society for the Philosophy of Science and the University of
   Calgary Press, BSPS Open, which aims to publish ten high-quality, fully-OA
   monographs over five years at no cost to authors or their employing institutions. The
   initiative will break new ground in implementing an OA model for monographs that
   complies with the demands of Plan S.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Research integrity
   Research integrity is enshrined in the University’s Code of Good Research Conduct
   (REF5a, §2(v)). It is secured through mandatory research ethics and GDPR training for
   staff, renewed every two years; a thorough ethical approval process for relevant
   research projects (including PhD theses); mandatory research ethics training for PGRs;
   and, at Department level, by nurturing an inclusive research environment – e.g. we have
   developed an Events Policy that includes procedures for preventing and addressing
   harassment at our seminars, conferences and workshops, which we have actively used.



   Section 2: People


   Staffing strategy
   We currently have 15 REF-eligible permanent staff, consisting of five professors
   (Beebee, Daly, MacBride, O’Neill, Uebel); two readers (Scott, Stevens), two senior
   lecturers (Liggins, J. Smith), five lecturers (Caddick Bourne, Crawford, Janssen-
   Lauret, T. Smith, Whittle), and a Presidential Fellow (Buckwalter). Since REF 2014
   four members of permanent staff (Abell, Bayne, Dodd, Macdonald) departed and four
   were appointed (Buckwalter, Caddick Bourne, Janssen-Lauret, MacBride). We also
   have a Leverhulme Early Career Fellow (Maung) and a British Academy Postdoctoral
   Fellow (Mitchell).
   Our recruitment strategy during this REF period has had two foci: to increase the
   number of PDRs through including postdoctoral positions in funding applications and
   soliciting high-quality applicants for Leverhulme and BA fellowships, and to consolidate
   existing areas of research expertise when making permanent appointments. Thus
   MacBride and Janssen-Lauret were hired to further develop History of Analytic
   Philosophy, and Caddick Bourne works on metaphysics and the philosophy of
   language (largely in the context of aesthetics). We appointed Buckwalter to a
   permanent position through the University’s flagship ‘Presidential Fellowships’ scheme
   in 2019, bolstering our research in Mind and Language and Metaphysics and adding
   significant expertise in more empirically focused research methodologies.
   During this REF cycle we have had eight PDRs (compared with five in the previous
   cycle) working on 10 externally-funded projects: Maung and Mitchell (as above); Paul
   Knights (RA, BIOMOT to 2015; BA Postdoctoral Fellow 2015-19, now a Specialist
   Philosophy Teacher with the Philosophy Foundation); Tom McClelland (RA,
   Architecture of Consciousness 2013-15, now a fixed-term lecturer at Cambridge);
   Jonathan Farrell (the same project, 2013-16); Richard Christian (RA Green
   Infrastructure, 2015-19); Janssen-Lauret (The Age of Metaphysical Revolution 2016-
   19; permanent lecturer since 2016), and Anthony Fisher (same project; previously
   Newton International Fellow 2014-15).
   An additional PDR, Jeroen Smid (Lund), is spending the whole three-year tenure (2018-
   21) of his Swedish Research Council International Postdoc grant at Manchester (taking
   up a further 3-year postdoc at the University of Amsterdam in 2021). He will be joined
   by a second researcher (from Gothenburg), again for three years, on the same SRC
   scheme in late 2020.


   Staff development
   Our staff development strategy, outlined below, has been very successful. During the
   current REF cycle six staff in Philosophy were promoted: three to reader (1F, 2M), one
   to senior lecturer (M), and two from Research Associate to Research Fellow (1F, 1M).

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   The one member of probationary staff completed her probationary period after three
   years – a year ahead of the standard period. The female staff member promoted to
   reader in 2017 left for a professorship at Oxford in 2019. Our very high level of external
   research funding, which has increasingly included a significant element of impact
   activity, is further evidence of the success of our staff development strategy, showing
   that staff are incentivised to apply for such funding and well supported in doing so.
   All probationary staff and postdoctoral researchers are given clear probation targets by
   their line manager (Head of Department or PI) and assigned a mentor, who meets them
   regularly to offer advice on publication, impact and funding plans. This is in addition to
   the (optional) annual Performance and Development Review process for all staff, which
   involves an extended face-to-face discussion with the Head of Department of the
   reviewee’s progress and plans for the coming year, resulting in clear agreed research
   and professional development objectives.
   Since 2015, ECRs – fixed-term and permanent – have been given feedback from
   colleagues on outputs through the University’s annual ‘Research Review Exercise’.
   Fixed-term and probationary staff members (whether REF-eligible or not) have
   received feedback on some 50 outputs through this process, giving them a better
   understanding of the REF criteria (particularly useful for fixed-term PDRs) and helping
   them to further develop the quality of research outputs.
   New fixed-term and permanent lecturers complete the Humanities New Academics
   Programme – which covers both research and teaching – as a condition of passing
   probation. They are given a significant teaching/administration reduction in the two
   years during which they normally take this course (50% in year 1 and 25% in year 2) to
   enable them to maintain their research trajectory. The progress of probationary staff is
   reviewed annually by the School Promotions Committee and they are given written
   feedback.
   In 2017 the School established a Research Contract Staff Working Group – led by
   Beebee and a colleague in Social Statistics – to enhance the School’s provision under
   the Researcher Development Concordat (REF5a, §3.3.2). The working group
   developed a range of new policies and procedures, including clearer guidance for PIs
   on their responsibilities, a new Research Contract Staff Network Coordinator position
   at School level, and the establishment of a £1000 p.a. (pro rata) Career Development
   Allowance for all fixed-term research staff.
   The School has also addressed issues of staff development through revised promotions
   procedures. Since 2015, the Head of School has run a very popular promotion
   workshop each year in order to address the relatively low rate of promotion applications
   by women. The workshops ensure staff awareness of the promotion criteria (which
   include impact and public engagement activities), the required evidence base, and the
   manner in which the promotions cycle operates. In addition, the School Promotion
   Committee operates a ‘dry run’ each November so that prospective applicants receive
   feedback on all aspects of their submission prior to submitting their formal application.
   Permanent staff may apply for one semester of academic leave in seven. In the current
   REF period all permanent staff made successful applications, between them taking 34
   semesters of paid sabbatical. Research and impact activity are further facilitated
   through our WAM: a staff member who has a proportion of their salary met by an
   external research funder – whether for research or impact activity – is given
   corresponding proportional relief from teaching and administration (so e.g. a 10%
   salary buy-out is matched by a 10% workload reduction).


   Research students
   Our strategy is to admit only high-quality students; to embed them within a supportive

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   and collegial research culture and provide outstanding access to training and career
   development opportunities; and to review their progress regularly to ensure timely
   completion of a high-quality thesis. The success of this strategy in the current REF
   period is evidenced by:


     24 of our 25 completed PhDs passed with no or minor corrections, with just one
      fail and two non-completions (one left after the first year; one left for medical
      reasons) in seven years.
     An excellent publication record (see below).
     An excellent placement record, including a senior lectureship (Universidad de
      Valparaíso, Chile); a permanent lectureship (Leeds); assistant professorships at
      Duisburg-Essen and Tilburg; a BA Postdoctoral Fellowship (Leeds); postdocs of
      between 1 and 5 years at LMU Munich, Gothenburg, Stockholm, TU Delft and
      Hertfordshire; and temporary teaching fellowships (Nottingham, Leeds). The
      2020–21 Analysis Studentship will be held at Manchester by one of our current 4 th-
      year PhD students.
   Prospective PGRs are matched with a suitable main supervisor and interviewed prior
   to acceptance. On arrival they are assigned a supervisory team: main supervisor, co-
   supervisor, independent reviewer and academic adviser. They are required to engage
   in a variety of induction, training and review processes, which take the student from the
   start to end of their PhD study. The most significant of these are the two annual
   progress reviews: a mid-year review and a more comprehensive end-of-year review.
   All of the mandatory training and review processes involve the completion and
   authorisation of online forms, ensuring a 100% completion rate.
   Humanities runs a substantial range of PGR training events and programmes including
   sessions on thesis planning, organising conferences, viva preparation, writing for a
   non-academic audience, and off-campus ‘thesis boot camps’. Our PGRs regularly
   benefit from these sessions.
   A significant source of support for our PGRs is financial. Of our current cohort of 24
   PGRs in years 1-3, 17 are funded by three-year School and University scholarships,
   which are paid at the same rate as AHRC studentships and contain no teaching
   requirement. A further five are funded by the AHRC via the North West Consortium
   Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP); the remaining two by overseas
   governments.
   AHRC and School-funded PGRs have a £1,000 p.a. research allowance. They have
   made excellent use of this funding. Our current PGR cohort have presented papers at
   conferences/workshops at, e.g., Amsterdam, Cologne, Dusseldorf, Genoa, Lisbon,
   Lund, Melbourne, Pavia, Pisa, Princeton, Salzburg and Tilburg, and attended summer
   schools in (e.g.) Berlin, Groeningen, Cornell, Madrid, Dubrovnik and Antwerp. In
   addition, several PGRs have spent significant time abroad during their study: two had
   competitively awarded Visiting Fellowships at the University of Tübingen, one spent 3
   months as a visiting researcher at Geneva (funded by a School PGR Mobility Grant),
   and two spent a semester at UC Berkeley (funded by the NWCDTP). These initiatives
   have led to a significant improvement in the international profile of our PGRs, providing
   additional opportunities for collaboration and engagement.
   The Department, School and NWCDTP provide financial support for conferences/
   workshops organised by PGRs. PGRs have also been very successful in applying for
   external funding – over £13,000 in the current REF period – from, e.g., the Mind
   Association, Aristotelian Society and the Royal Institute of Philosophy. PGR-organised
   workshops/conference have included two annual events – Open Minds (run every year
   since 2006) and PhilChat (since 2016) – and a series of three RIP-funded workshops

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   on personhood. Such activities equip our PGRs with organisational, budgeting and
   funding application skills, as well as further opportunities to network and present their
   work to a wider audience; they also greatly contribute to the vibrancy of the
   Department’s research culture.
   PGRs are expected to come to our research seminar series and since 2017 they have
   run their own ‘work in progress’ seminar, financially supported by the Department,
   which has helped enormously to foster a collaborative and collegial PGR atmosphere.
   They are always invited to attend research events run by the Department for free.
   Supervisors encourage and assist PGRs to publish articles. In the current REF period
   our PGRs have published or had accepted – while enrolled – articles in, e.g., the
   Journal of Social Ontology (this article won the Social Ontology Society’s annual ECR
   prize), Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, Philosophical Studies, Ethical Theory
   and Moral Practice, Global Justice, History and Philosophy of Logic, Journal for the
   History of Analytical Philosophy, Synthese and Erkenntnis. A 2018 graduate won the
   2019 IJPS Robert Papazian Essay Prize.
   Where appropriate, supervisors also co-author with their PhD students. In the current
   REF period this has resulted in publications in e.g. Philosophical Quarterly, Synthese,
   Linguistic and Philosophical Investigations, Inquiry, and Pacific Philosophical Quarterly;
   two (Beebee/Anne-Marie McCallion and J. Smith/Abigail Connor) are included in our
   output submission.
   Finally, PGR career development is provided through graduate teaching assistantships
   (normally up to a maximum of 3 contact hours a week, with submission-pending
   students allowed to do more if appropriate) and the opportunity to give guest lectures;
   in both cases, feedback is given by the course director. The School and Department
   provide compulsory training – including EDI – for new teaching assistants.


   Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
   We have subscribed to the BPA/SWIP Good Practice Scheme since 2014. This has had
   a significant impact on how we arrange our research activity – ensuring that women are
   well represented amongst conference and seminar speakers, establishing more
   inclusive ways of running and chairing research seminars and conferences, and having
   a publicly advertised Events Policy, which makes it clear that harassment and
   discriminatory behaviour are not tolerated. We have also developed good practice
   around accessibility for research and public engagement events, based on the BPA
   accessibility guidelines co-authored by Beebee and others in 2018.
   Since 2016 we have had a designated EDI lead, who sits on the School’s EDI Committee
   and also runs a departmental EDI committee with staff and student representation,
   meeting once a semester.
   We have run a number of EDI-related events, hosting the annual SWIP-UK conference
   (The Profession We Want) in 2016 and an NWDTCP-funded workshop, Inclusive
   Methodology: Making Space for Women and Minorities in the Canon of Analytic
   Philosophy, in 2019. Our PGRs have run a chapter of MAP (Minorities and Philosophy)
   UK since 2015. The Department encourages and financially supports PGR-organised
   events with a strong diversity element – in particular, the annual PhilChat conferences
   have an explicit EDI agenda (e.g. Race, Gender and Disability in 2016 and Trust,
   Forgiveness, and the Philosophy of Mixed-Race Identities in 2018).
   The School of Social Sciences has held an Athena SWAN bronze award since 2017. Its
   EDI Committee, established in 2016, meets twice a semester, and its chair (Beebee
   2016-19) is a member of the School Leadership Team and the Promotions Committee.
   Research-related School EDI initiatives have included:

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     face-to-face implicit bias training for staff and PGRs, with mandatory online training
      for all staff involved in staff and student recruitment;
     the introduction of an annual promotions workshop (see Staff Development above);
     the implementation of the recommendations from the Research Contract Staff
      Working Group (see above), which was established in response to concerns about
      the career development of female and BAME fixed-term researchers (both groups
      are significantly better represented amongst fixed-term researchers than amongst
      permanent staff);
     the introduction in 2018 of a ‘caring costs fund’, which allows all academic staff and
      PGRs to apply for money to cover the costs of looking after children or other
      dependents while away from home outside working hours because of e.g.
      presenting a paper.
   Our PGR community is now relatively diverse – with around 50% women and 25%
   BAME students. However, women only make up 27% (21.8% FTE) of our current
   permanent staff (though 50% of the permanent hires since 2014) and only one of the
   eight postdocs who have been in post. More can be done to combat this imbalance;
   thus one of our new research objectives, RO4, is to further embed EDI in all our
   research activities, with a particular focus on postdoctoral researcher recruitment.
   EDI considerations have been embedded in our REF preparation from the outset. The
   selection of outputs has been conducted over a number of years by three-person
   panels, all of which contained at least one woman, and sometimes two. Implicit bias
   training was mandatory for all panel members. Outputs single- or co-authored by
   women (21.8% FTE of our current permanent staff) make up 30% of our submission.

   Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities


   Research income
   Our research income in the current REF period stands at over £2.5m – a fivefold
   increase on REF2014. The projects funded during this time involved a wide range of
   staff (nine members of permanent staff and eight PDRs), topics (including biodiversity,
   the impact of green spaces on the wellbeing of older people, emotions, causation and
   suicide, Samuel Alexander, and David Lewis), and methods (from archive-based
   research to innovative qualitative social science methods).
   All four of the Department’s areas of specialisation have run major externally funded
   projects during the current REF period (both the total award to the Department and
   actual spend in the current REF period are listed; * indicates that the grant was awarded
   in the previous REF period):


   Mind and Language
     *Knowledge of Emotion: Expression and Social Cognition (AHRC), 2012-15: J.
      Smith (PI), Abell (CI), £169k/£108k.
     *Architecture of Consciousness (ERC), 2013-16: Bayne (PI), Farrell, McClelland
      (PDRs), €1.5m/£533k.
     Emotions as Feelings Towards Value (BA Postdoctoral Fellowship), 2018-21:
      Mitchell, £239k/£185k.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Engaged Philosophy
     *BIOMOT: Motivations for Ecosystem Services and Alternative Ways to Express
      the Value of Biodiversity (EC FP7), 2012-15: O’Neill (CI), Scott (CI), Knights
      (PDR), a major European project spanning eight institutions in seven countries,
      €490k/£111k.
     Green Infrastructure to Promote Health and Wellbeing in an Ageing Population
      (NERC), 2016-19: O’Neill (CI), Christian (PDR), a large, multidisciplinary project
      aimed to better understand the benefits and values of urban green infrastructure,
      £70k/£70k.
     Environmental Values and Ecosystem Services: An Investigation into the Concepts
      and Policies of the New Economic Arguments for Nature Protection (British
      Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship), 2015-19: Knights, £235k/£228k.


   History of Analytic Philosophy/Metaphysics
     The Age of Metaphysical Revolution: David Lewis and His Place in the History of
      Analytic Philosophy (AHRC), 2016-19: Beebee (PI), MacBride (CI), Janssen-
      Lauret, Fisher (both PDRs), £800k/£793k.
     The Metaphysics of Samuel Alexander (Newton International Fellowship, British
      Academy/Royal Society), 2014-15: Fisher (PDR), £85k/£72k.


   Metaphysics/Engaged Philosophy
     Suicide, Disorder, and Causal Judgements: A Philosophical Investigation
      (Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship), 2018-22: Maung, £88k/£45k.


   Our funding success has played an important role in achieving some of our other
   research objectives. It has generated a significant number of high-quality publications
   (O5). Publications not included in our REF submission that have arisen directly or
   indirectly from these projects include several significant scholarly editions arising from
   the Lewis project: the two-volume Philosophical Letters of David K. Lewis (ed. Beebee
   & Fisher, OUP 2020); a volume of Lewis’s posthumous papers (ed. Janssen-Lauret &
   MacBride, OUP in press); Quine’s The Significance of the New Logic (co-
   edited/translated by Janssen-Lauret, CUP 2018, previously only published in
   Portuguese); and an edited volume of papers by D.C. Williams (The Elements and
   Patterns of Being: Essays in Metaphysics, OUP 2018, ed. Fisher).
   Funded projects have also generated numerous outputs authored by REF-ineligible
   project PDRs, including articles in journals such as APQ, BJHP, JAPA, Journal of
   Consciousness Studies, The Monist, PPQ, Philosophical Quarterly, and Synthese; the
   above-mentioned Williams volume (Fisher); and a special issue of Review of Philosophy
   and Psychology (eds. Farrell & McClelland).
   Externally-funded projects have also resourced very many of our conferences and
   workshops (O3) and been a key driver of both the creation and development of
   collaborative research networks ((O2) – see §4) and improvements around impact. Both
   of our impact case studies arise from externally funded projects from the previous REF
   period, with ClimateJust also receiving ESRC Impact Acceleration Account funding
   (£19k) in this REF period. The Green Infrastructure project (see §4) promises to deliver
   significant impact through engagement with Greater Manchester City Council and other
   external organisations. Other impacts arising from externally funded projects include a
   Philosophy Bites podcast, an appearance on Radio 3’s Free Thinking, a short film on
   emotions, and the development of BPA-endorsed guidelines on sustainable

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   conferencing (see §4).


   Other external funding
   The £2.5m has been supplemented by funding not counted in HESA data, including over
   £20,000 of conference/workshop funding from several learned societies. It has also
   included funding that has contributed to our public engagement activities – for example
   up to £1,500 p.a. from the RIP, which we normally use to fund our annual Dorothy
   Emmet Lecture, and a grant of £5,000 from the British Society of Aesthetics to make the
   short film just mentioned. Finally, the two Editorships held by members of staff
   (MacBride, The Monist; Liggins, Analysis) come with external funding – around
   £28,000 p.a. – for teaching cover so that the editors can concentrate on their editorial
   duties.


   Research infrastructure
   Through the University (REF5a §4), Faculty and School infrastructure we have
   outstanding support for research and impact. This includes dedicated professional
   service teams and funding to assist with submitting funding applications; managing
   externally funded projects; running conferences, workshops and other research events;
   and running impact and public engagement activities.


   Research support staff: Our research and impact activities are overseen by the
   Department’s Research Director. Research and impact are supported by a number of
   Professional Services staff within the School. The School’s Research Office provides
   support for most aspects of research. It includes a Research Support Manager, a full-
   time grant-writing support officer, a full-time Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer,
   and other staff responsible for the financial management of research grants. The
   Philosophy Department has access to a dedicated Research Support Officer, whose
   main role is to assist with external funding applications.
   In 2018, the School established a separate Grant Management and Administration
   Team, whose role is to support award holders throughout the course of the project; in
   2019 it established a dedicated External Relations Office to assist with organising
   conferences and public engagement events.


   Financial support: All permanent staff in the School have an annual Research Support
   Allowance of £2,000 p.a. (increased in 2015 from £1,000) for research and impact-
   related activity. Staff often use some of their allowance to wholly or partly fund research
   events at Manchester. Since 2018, fixed-term research staff on project-funded contracts
   have a Career Development Allowance of £1,000 p.a. We also spend several thousand
   pounds of our departmental budget each year on a variety of research-related activities
   – primarily our Research Seminar series and conferences and workshops run by staff
   and PGRs.
   Additional financial support is provided by various funding schemes within the University.
   Use made of these in the current REF period includes a Simon Visiting Professorship
   (Rob Hopkins (NYU), 2019), funded by a University endowment; several of our PGR
   PhilChat conferences, funded from the School PGR Student Experience budget; two
   workshops and a visitor from Poland funded from the School’s research budget; and
   £15,000 from the Humanities Strategic Investment Research Fund for a two-year
   interdisciplinary seminar series with Politics, Cooperation and Equality.
   Unlike many HEIs, the University typically does not charge internally for the use of

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   lecture theatres and seminar rooms for conferences run by UoM staff, making it vastly
   cheaper and therefore easier for members of staff and PGRs to run conferences and
   workshops.


   Scholarly resources: The University has an extremely well-funded library (REF5a,
   §4.2), which directly impacts on our research. Individual members of staff can easily
   order online any books they need for their own, or their PGRs’, research purposes with
   – in practice – no budgetary constraints; and the Library holds the most extensive digital
   collections of any academic library in the UK. Its Samuel Alexander archive was crucial
   to the award and execution of Fisher’s Newton International Fellowship on Alexander’s
   metaphysics.

   Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


   Collaborations, networks and partnerships
   In pursuing our research and impact objectives to increase collaborative research and
   build relationships with non-academic partners, staff have collaborated in a variety of
   ways with academics in a range of disciplines and institutions, both in the UK and
   overseas, as well as with other research users and beneficiaries. These collaborations
   have been supported through the various elements of research support and
   infrastructure described in §3 and enabled through our very successful strategies for
   increasing research income.


   Research projects and networks: Externally funded projects have provided key
   opportunities for collaboration. For example:
     Green Infrastructure (O’Neill) was a collaborative project involving researchers
      from several other disciplines across UoM, MMU and the University of Salford as
      well as close engagement with Greater Manchester City Council, City of Trees,
      Friends of Nutsford Vale, and Friends of Ryebanks Fields.
     Knowledge of Emotions (J. Smith, Abell) resulted in the short film, The Emotions
      of Others, which involved collaboration with two artists/film-makers, Jacob
      Cartwright and Nick Jordan.
     O’Neill co-authored a report for AgeUK, Dementia, Vulnerability and Well-being:
      Living Well with Dementia Together, as a result of a project with the Manchester
      Institute for Collaborative Research on Ageing.
     O’Neill is currently working with Steady State Manchester for the 7th International
      Degrowth and 16th International Society for Ecological Economics Joint Conference
      (postponed from 2020 due to covid), of which he is the lead organiser. This will
      bring together academics, civil society actors, activists, artists and policymakers.
     Collaboration between Fisher (PDR), Beebee, Lewis’s widow Steffi, and Princeton
      University’s Firestone Library – enabled by the Age of Metaphysical Revolution
      project – resulted in Lewis’s archives being moved there from Steffi’s house,
      ensuring their preservation and accessibility for future historians of philosophy.


   Co-authoring: Since 2014, staff have published work with academics at a wide range
   of universities, including the US (Dartford, Harvard, Oklahoma, Yale), Canada
   (Waterloo), Brazil (Campinas), Sweden (Stockholm) and the UK (Birmingham, Oxford).


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



   Visitors: We have hosted several visitors for the purposes of collaborative work, in
   some cases funded by the University, including:
     Prof. Juha Hiedanpää (Natural Resources Institute Finland): six-month visit (2018-
      19) working with O’Neill as part of an Academy of Finland-funded project,
      Participation in Long-Term Decision Making.
     Dr Rafal Kur (Jagiellonian University, Poland): month-long visit to work on a co-
      authored paper with Janssen-Lauret, funded by the School’s Internationalisation
      Fund;
     A scoping visit by Fisher to the Samuel Alexander archive in 2013, funded by the
      University’s John Rylands Research Institute, led directly to his Newton
      International Fellowship and, indirectly, to the Age of Metaphysical Revolution
      project through discussions with Beebee about the Lewis archive;
     Dr Maria Svedberg (Stockholm): month-long visit funded by the Swedish Research
      Council to work on a co-authored paper (The Monist, June 2020) with Beebee and
      Whittle;
     Visits totalling 18 months by two Chinese academics, both funded by the China
      Scholarship Council, to work on the history of analytic philosophy with Stevens and
      MacBride.


   Contribution to wider society
   Our achievements in this regard – under the Engaged Philosophy umbrella – fall into
   three main areas: (a) the environment, sustainability and accessibility, (b) women in
   philosophy, and (c) public engagement.


   (a) The environment, sustainability and accessibility: Our contribution in this area
   has two strands to it: one rooted in philosophical research, and the other a more
   practical strand aimed at reducing the carbon footprint and improving the accessibility
   of academic research events.
   O’Neill’s research on climate justice has had direct practical implications both for public
   policy and for environmental NGOs that seek to make the case to the general public
   and to government for environmental action. Both of our impact case studies
   (ClimateJust and Flood Re) relate to this strand, as does O’Neill’s ongoing work on
   ensuring significant impact from the Green Infrastructure project, which concerns the
   value of green spaces such as parks and allotments to older people.
   On the practical side, we have demonstrated a serious commitment to reducing the
   carbon footprint of academic research. Most significantly, in 2019 the BPA adopted a
   set of good practice guidelines for reducing the carbon footprint of philosophical
   research, drawn up by MacBride and Janssen-Lauret as part of the AHRC The Age
   of Metaphysical Revolution project. Twenty-three departments and seven learned
   societies – in the UK and overseas – have so far endorsed these guidelines. This
   commitment has been implemented in the Department through the use of virtual
   conferencing software at the 2017 SWIP-UK annual conference and at the final
   conference (2019) of the same AHRC project (both at UoM). This allowed both virtual
   speakers and virtual participants to engage with the in-person conference in real time.
   This not only reduced our carbon footprint and made the events more accessible (e.g.
   for people with disabilities or caring responsibilities), but also showcased the benefits
   of the blended virtual/in-person format to the wider philosophical community. For
   example, both the BPA guidelines and the AHRC project conference are favourably

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   mentioned in relation to sustainability in a Daily Nous blog post (16.9.19).
   Again on the practical side, Beebee and colleagues at Southampton co-authored the
   BPA’s Guidelines for Accessible Conferences and Public Lectures – available from the
   BPA website – which aim to ensure that philosophy research and engagement events
   across the UK are as accessible as possible to people with disabilities.
   (b) Women in philosophy: Our formal engagement with the issue of women’s
   underrepresentation in philosophy began with Beebee’s work on the BPA/SWIP Good
   Practice Scheme. Launched in 2014, the scheme – devised and led by Beebee and
   Jennifer Saul – has had a significant effect on the policies and, especially, informal
   practices and general departmental culture in philosophy departments across the UK
   and, increasingly, internationally. Many practices that were virtually invisible prior to
   2014 and recommended by the GPS are now commonplace across UK philosophy
   departments, e.g. seminar chairing policies and ensuring that women are well
   represented on conference programmes. Twenty-seven UK and three overseas
   departments and 15 learned societies/journals – including most of the major UK
   societies/journals and two European societies – currently subscribe to the scheme.
   Redressing the gender imbalance in philosophy is not, however, solely a matter of
   policy and procedure. Gender inequality is also enshrined in subject matter, for
   example in the way that the history of philosophy – in both research and teaching –
   tends to privilege male voices and ignore the contributions of women. Janssen-Lauret
   has contributed significantly to the growing international movement to ensure that the
   voices of women philosophers are not marginalised; e.g. she established the Women
   in the History of Analytic Philosophy Network in 2017, organised a conference on that
   topic in London in 2018, and has published numerous papers on female analytic
   philosophers, including Stebbing, Jones, Ladd-Franklin and Barcan Marcus.


   (c) Public engagement: Our establishment of the Engaged Philosophy research area
   (see §1) has significantly increased the level of activity that brings philosophical
   research to non-academic audiences.
   We began an annual public lecture series – the Dorothy Emmet Lectures – in 2016,
   bringing philosophy to a wider audience in the Manchester area. They have covered
   art and science (Kate Elgin); personal identity and memory (Marya Schechtman); the
   aesthetics of body oppression (Sherri Irvin), marriage and injustice (Clare Chambers),
   and moral philosophy (Jane Heal) – the latter happening via Zoom due to COVID-19
   and attracting an international audience of over 200. We also ran a well-attended
   ‘Science and Philosophy’ event in 2015, with presentations involving pairings of
   philosophers with a neuroscientist, an astrophysicist and a biologist.
   Members of the Department have contributed to other public engagement activities in
   the current REF cycle. For example, Beebee has appeared on Radio 4’s David Baddiel
   Tries to Understand … and The Philosopher’s Arms, and on Radio 3’s Free Thinking;
   and gave a full-length interview on women in philosophy for 3CR community radio in
   Melbourne (all still available online). She also published an article on Newcomb’s
   Paradox in Filosofuj! (a Polish general-interest philosophy magazine) and a short book
   aimed at a popular audience (Philosophy: Why it Matters, with M. Rush, Polity 2019;
   translated editions in Chinese and Spanish under contract), and appeared in BBC
   Focus magazine and on a BBC Reel documentary talking about free will. She wrote
   two blogs on personal identity for the Institute of Art and Ideas (IAI), which had a
   combined readership in their first month of release of over 92,000; participated in a
   panel discussion at the IAI’s How the Light Gets In festival; and recorded a PhilBites
   podcast on possible worlds. O’Neill wrote an essay, Life Beyond Capital, for the ESRC-
   funded Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity (available on the CUSP
   website), and gave talks at the Edinburgh Science Festival and a symposium on the

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   nature of prosperity organised by CUSP alongside Rowan Williams, Roger Scruton and
   others. J. Smith and a PGR, Lydia Farina, wrote an IAI blog on emotional robots, and
   Smith also gave a public lecture at the Bluecoats Centre in Liverpool. Buckwalter hosts
   a podcast series, Journal Entries, where philosophers talk informally about their work.
   Tom Smith participated in a public street performance in Manchester, ‘Case studies in
   joint action’, with a dancer/choreographer, a composer and an amateur theatre
   company. The short film, The Emotions of Others, scripted by J. Smith and Abell, was
   shown at the contemporary arts festival Innsbruck International in 2016.


   Contributions to the research base
   Staff made a very significant contribution to the UK and international research base
   during the current REF cycle. Below are listed some of the more significant
   contributions beyond the usual journal refereeing, keynote talks, etc. that one would
   find in any department of our size.
   Journal Editorships: The Department is home to two major international journals
   published by OUP: Analysis (edited by Liggins since 2017) and, since 2016, The
   Monist (edited by MacBride). O’Neill is co-editor of New Political Economy,
   Beebee was co-editor of Philosophy and Phenomenological Research until 2017,
   and Mitchell co-editor of The Journal of Philosophy of Emotion until 2019. This work
   makes a significant contribution to the discipline by encouraging and enabling research
   in analytic philosophy across the globe.
   Other journal activity: In the current REF period, staff have acted as associate editors
   for AJP, BJPS, Ergo, Journal of the American Philosophical Association, and People &
   Nature; and as members of editorial/advisory boards for 13 journals
   including AJP, Dialectica, Hume Studies, Journal of Applied Philosophy, Journal for
   the History of Analytical Philosophy, Philosophical Quarterly, and the Vienna Circle
   Institute Yearbook.
   Refereeing funding applications: Three submitted staff are members of the AHRC
   Peer Review College (Beebee, Liggins, MacBride), two are also members of the
   Strategic Review College, and one (MacBride) is a member of the Philip Leverhulme
   Prize Committee. During the current REF cycle staff have refereed applications or sat
   on panels for overseas funding bodies including the DFG, Irish Research Council, Israel
   Science Foundation, Czech Academy of Sciences, Academy of Finland, VWO-
   Flanders, Swiss National Science Foundation, Social Sciences and Humanities
   Research Council of Canada, and the Volkswagen Foundation.
   Advising on senior appointments and on reviews of research: In the current REF
   cycle staff have served on professorial appointment panels including the Regius Chair
   in Logic at Aberdeen, the Bertrand Russell Chair at Cambridge and the Chair of Analytic
   Philosophy at Geneva; and advised on promotion and tenure cases, and acted as
   members of research strategy review panels, for departments in the UK, US, Germany
   and Ireland.
   Leadership in national and international organisations: Dodd was Director of the
   Mind Association from 2015 to 2019. Beebee was President of the British Society for
   the Philosophy of Science from 2015 to 2017 and President of the Aristotelian Society
   in 2017-18. Since 2015 she has also been one of four Patrons of the Athena SWAN
   Charter, and is a member of the REF2021 Philosophy sub-panel.
   In the current REF period, staff have also acted as members of the Councils, Executive
   Committees or Steering Groups, or been Trustees of, the Analysis Trust, Aristotelian
   Society, British Society of Aesthetics, British Society for the Philosophy of Science,
   International Social Ontology Society, the Mind Association, and the RIP.
   While not formally enshrined in our research objectives, we regard the above kinds of
                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   contributions to the UK and international research base – as well as our work to improve
   the diversity and environmental sustainability of the profession – as crucial to the health
   of the discipline and therefore a hugely important element of the Department’s research
   activity.




                                                                                                 Page 17
